"I don't know exactly what to do--we'd better hold a little council of war. They may have gone..."
Stevens broke off as the structure began to move, and they settled down upon what had been
one of the side-walls. Greater and greater became the acceleration, until their apparent weight
was almost as much as it would have been upon the Earth, at which point it became constant.
"... but they haven't," he continued the interrupted sentence. "This seems to be a capture
and seizure, as well as an attack, so we'll have to take the risk of looking at them. Besides,
it's getting cold in here. One or two of the adjoining cells have apparently been ruptured
and we're radiating our heat out into space, so we'll have to get into a life-boat or freeze.
I'll go pick out the best one. Wonder if I'd better take you with me, or hide you and come
back after you?"

"Don't worry about that--I'm coming with you," Nadia declared, positively.

"Just as well, probably," he assented, and they set out. A thorough exploration of all the
tight connecting cells revealed that not a lifeboat within their reach remained intact, but
that habitable and navigable portions of three such craft were available. Selecting the most
completely equipped of these, they took up their residence therein by entering it and closing
the massive insulating door. Stevens disconnected all the lights save one, and so shielded
that one before turning it on that it merely lightened the utter darkness into a semi-permeable
gloom. He then stepped up to the lookout plate, and with his hand upon the control, pondered
long the possible consequences of what he wished to do.

"What harm would it do to take just a little peek?"

"I don't know--that's the dickens of it. Maybe none, and then again, maybe a lot. You see,
we don't know who or what we are up against. The only thing we know is that they've got us
beat a hundred ways, and we've got to act accordingly. We've got to chance it sometime, though,
if we can ever get away, so we might as well do it now. I'll put it on very short range first,
and see what we can see. By the small number of cells we've got here I'm afraid they've split
us up lengthwise, too--so that instead of having a whole slice of the old watermelon to live
in, we've got only about a sixth of one--shaped about like a piece of restaurant pie. One thing
I can do, though. I'll turn on the communicator receiver and put it on full coverage--maybe
we can hear something useful."

Putting a little power upon the visiray plate, he moved the point of projection a short distance
from their hiding-place, so that the plate showed a view of the wreckage. The upper half of
the vessel was still intact, the lower half a jumble of sharply-cut fragments. From each of
the larger pieces a brilliant ray of tangible force stretched outward. Suddenly their receiver
sounded behind them, as the high-powered transmitter in the telegraph room tried to notify
headquarters of their plight.

"Arcturus attacked and cut up being taken tow...."

Rapidly as the message was uttered the transmitter died with a rattle in the middle of a word,
and Nadia looked at Stevens with foreboding in her eyes.

"They've got something, that's one thing sure, to be able to neutralize our communicator beams
that way," he admitted. "Not so good--we'll have to play this close to our vests, girl!"

"Are you just trying to cheer me up, or do you really think we have a chance?" she demanded.
"I want to know just where we stand."

"I'm coming clean with you, no kidding. If we can get away, we'll be all x, because I'll bet
a farm that by this time Brandon's got everything those birds have, and maybe more. They beat
us to it, that's all. I'm kind of afraid, though, that getting away isn't going to be quite
as simple as shooting fish down a well."

       *       *       *       *       *

Far ahead of them a port opened, a lifeboat shot out at its full power, and again their receiver
tried to burst into sound, but it was a vain attempt. The sound died before one complete word
could be uttered, and the lifeboat, its power completely neutralized by the rays of the tiny
craft of the enemy, floated gently back toward the mass of its parent and accompanied it in
its headlong flight. Several more lifeboats made the attempt, as the courageous officers of
the Arcturus, some of whom had apparently succeeded in eluding the vigilance of the captors,
launched the little shells from various ports; but as each boat issued, its power was neutralized
and it found itself dragged helplessly along in the grip of one of those mysterious, brilliant
rays of force. At least one hidden officer must have been watching the fruitless efforts, for
the next lifeboat to issue made no attempt, either to talk or to flee, but from it there flamed
out into space a concentrated beam of destruction--the terrible ray of annihilation, against
which no known substance could endure for a moment; the ray which had definitely outlawed war.
But even that frightful weapon was useless--it spent its force harmlessly upon an impalpable,
invisible barrier, a hundred yards from its source, and the bold lifeboat disappeared in one
blinding explosion of incandescence as the captor showed its real power in retaliation. Stevens,
jaw hard-set, leaped from the screen, then brought himself up so quickly that he skated across
the smooth steel floor. Shutting off the lookout plate, he led the half-fainting girl across
the room to a comfortable seat and sat down beside her--raging, but thoughtful. Nadia soon
recovered.

"Why are you acting so contrary to your nature--is it because of me?" she demanded. "A dozen
times I've seen you start to do something and then change your mind. I will not be a load on
you nor hinder you in anything you want to do."

"I told your father I'd look after you, and I'm going to do it," he replied, indirectly. "I
would do it anyway, of course--even if you are ten or twelve years older than I thought you were."

"Yes, Dad never has realized that I'm more than eight years old. I see--you were going out
there and be slaughtered?" He flushed, but made no reply. "In that case I'm glad I'm here--that
would have been silly. I think we'd better hold that council of war you mentioned a while ago,
don't you?"

"I need a smoke--do you indulge?"

"No thanks. I tried it a few times at school, but never liked it."

He searched his pockets, bringing to light an unopened package and a tattered remnant which
proved to contain one dilapidated cigarette. He studied it thoughtfully. "I'll smoke this wreck,"
he decided, "while it's still smokable. We'll save the rest of them--I'm afraid it'll be a
long time between smokes. Well, let's confer!"

"This will have to be a one-sided conference. I don't imagine that any of my ideas will prove
particularly helpful. You talk and I'll listen.

"You can't tell what ideas may be useful--chip in any time you feel the urge. Here's the dope,
as I see it. They're highly intelligent creatures and are in all probability neither Martians
nor Venerians. If any of them had any such stuff as that, some of us would have known about
it and, besides, I don't believe they would have used it in just that way. Mercury is not habitable,
at least for organic beings; and we have never seen any sign of any other kind of inhabitants
who could work with metals and rays. They're probably from Jupiter, although possibly from
further away. I say Jupiter, because I would think, judging from the small size of the ship,
that it may still be in the experimental stage, so that they probably didn't come from any
further away than Jupiter. Then, too, if they were very numerous, somebody would have sighted
one before. I'd give my left leg and four fingers for one good look at the inside of that ship."

"Why didn't you take it, then? You never even looked toward it, after that one first glimpse."

"I'll say I didn't--the reason being that they may have automatic detectors, and as I have
suggested before, our system of vision is so crude that its use could be detected with a clothesline
or a basket full of scrap iron. But to resume: Their aim is to capture, not destroy, since
they haven't killed anybody except the one crew that attacked them. Apparently they want to
study us or something. However, they don't intend that any of us shall get away, nor even send
out a word of what has happened to us. Therefore it looks as though our best bet is to hide
now, and try to sneak away on them after a while--direct methods won't work. Right?"

"You sound lucid. Is there any possibility of getting back, though, if we got anywhere near
Jupiter? It's so far away!"

"It's a long stretch from Jupiter to any of the planets where we have power-plants, all right--particularly
now, when Mars and Tellus are subtending an angle of something more than ninety degrees at
the sun, and Venus is between the two, while Jupiter is clear across the sun from all three
of them. Even when Jupiter is in mean opposition to Mars, it is still some five hundred and
fifty million kilometers away, so you can form some idea as to how far it is from our nearest
planet now. No, if we expect to get back under our own power, we've got to break away pretty
quick--these lifeboats have very little accumulator capacity, and the receptors are useless
above about three hundred million kilometers...."

"But it'll take us a long time to go that far, won't it?"

"Not very. Our own ships, using only the acceleration of gravity, and both plus and minus at
that, make the better than four hundred million kilometers of the long route to Mars in five
days. These birds are using almost that much acceleration, and I don't see how they do it.
They must have a tractor ray. Brandon claimed that such a thing was theoretically possible,
but Westfall and I couldn't see it. We ragged him about it a lot--and he was right. I thought,
of course, they'd drift with us, but they are using power steadily. They've got some system!"

"Suppose they could be using intra-atomic energy? We were taught that it was impossible, but
you've shattered a lot of my knowledge today."

"I wouldn't want to say definitely that it is absolutely impossible, but the deeper we go into
that line, the more unlikely intra-atomic energy power-plants become. No, they've got a real
power-transmission system--one that can hold a tight beam together a lot farther than anything
we have been able to develop, that's all. Well, we've given them quite a lot of time to get
over any suspicion of us, let's see if we can sneak away from them."

       *       *       *       *       *

By short and infrequent applications of power to the dirigible projectors of the life-boat,
Stevens slowly shifted the position of the fragment which bore their craft until it was well
clear of the other components of the mass of wreckage. He then exerted a very small retarding
force, so that their bit would lag behind the procession, as though it had accidently been
separated. But the crew of the captor was alert, and no sooner did a clear space show itself
between them and the mass than a ray picked them up and herded them back into place. Stevens
then nudged other pieces so that they fell out, only to see them also rounded up. Hour after
hour he kept trying--doing nothing sufficiently energetic to create any suspicion, but attempting
everything he could think of that offered any chance of escape from the clutches of their captors.
Immovable at the plate, his hands upon the controls, he performed every insidious maneuver
his agile brain could devise, but he could not succeed in separating their vehicle from its
fellows. Finally, after a last attempt, which was foiled as easily as were its predecessors,
he shut off his controls and turned to his companion with a grin.

"I didn't think I could get away with it--they're keen, that gang--but I had to keep at it
as long as it would have done us any good."

"Wouldn't it do us any good now?"

"Not a bit--we're going so fast that we couldn't stop--we're out of even radio range of our
closest power-plant. We'll have to put off any more attempts until they slow us down. They're
fairly close to at least one of the moons of Jupiter, we'll have our best chance--so good,
in fact, that I really think we can make it."

"But what good would that do us, if we couldn't get back?" Dire foreboding showed in her glorious
eyes.

"Lots of things not tried yet, girl, and we'll try them all. First, we get away. Second, we
try to get in touch with Norman Brandon...."

"How? No known radio will carry half that far."

"No, but I think that a radio as yet unknown may be able to--and there is a bare possibility
that I'll be able to communicate."

"Oh wonderful--that lifts a frightful load off my mind," she breathed.

"But just a minute--I said I'd come clean with you, and I will. The odds are all against us,
no matter what we do. If that unknown radio won't work--and it probably won't--there are several
other things we can try, but they're all pretty slim chances. Even if we get away, it'll probably
be about the same thing as though you were to be marooned on a desert island without any tools,
and with your rescue depending upon your ability to build a high-powered radio station with
which to call to a mainland for help. However, if we don't try to get away, our only alternative
is letting them know we're here, and joining our friends in captivity."

"And then what?"

"You know as much as I do. Imprisonment and restraint, certain; death, possible; return to
Earth, almost certainly impossible--life as guests, highly improbable."

"I'm with you, Steve, all the way."

"Well, it's time to spring off--we've both been awake better than fifty hours. Personally,
I'm all in, and you're so near dead that you're a physical wreck. We'll get us a bite of supper
and turn in."

An appetizing supper was prepared from the abundant stores and each ate a heartier meal than
either would have believed possible. Stevens considered his unopened package of cigarettes,
then regretfully put it back into his pocket still unopened and turned to Nadia.

"Well, little fellow, it's time to shove off, and then some. You might as well sleep here,
and I'll go in there. If anything scares you, yell. Good-night, old trapper!"

"Wait a minute, Steve." Nadia flushed, and her brown eyes and black eyebrows, in comparison
with her golden-blond hair, lent her face a quizzical, elfin expression that far belied her
feelings as she stared straight into his eyes. "I've never even been away from the Earth before,
and with all this happening I'm simply scared to death. I've been trying to hide it, but I
couldn't stand it alone, and we're going to be together too long and too close for senseless
conventions to affect us. There's two bunks over there--why don't you sleep in one of them?"

He returned her steadfast gaze for a moment in silence.

"All x with me, Nadia," he answered, keeping out of his voice all signs of the tenderness he
felt for her, and of his very real admiration for her straightforward conduct in a terrifying
situation. "You trust me, then?"

"Trust you! Don't be silly--I know you! I know you, and I know Brandon and Westfall--I know
what you've done, and exactly the kind of men you are. Trust you!"

"Thanks, old golf-shootist," and promises were made and received in a clasp from which Nadia's
right hand, strong as it was, emerged slightly damaged.

"By the way, what is your first name, fellow-traveller?" she asked in lighter vein. "Nobody,
not even Dad or Breckie, ever seems to call you anything but 'Steve' when they talk about you."
She was amazed at the effect of her innocent question, for Stevens flushed to his hair and
spluttered.

"It's Percy!" He finally, snorted. "Percival Van Schravendyck Stevens. Wouldn't that tear it?"

"Why, I think Percival's a real nice name!"

"Silence!" he hissed in burlesque style. "Young woman, I have revealed to you a secret known
to but few living creatures. On your life, keep it inviolate!"

"Oh, very well, if you insist. Good-night--Steve!" and she gave him a radiant and honest smile:
the first smile he had seen since the moment of the attack.

CHAPTER III

Castaways Upon Ganymede

Upon awakening, the man's first care was to instruct the girl in the operation of the projectors,
so that she could keep the heavily-armored edge of their small section, which she had promptly
christened "The Forlorn Hope," between them and the grinding, clashing mass of wreckage, and
thus, if it should become necessary, protect the relatively frail inner portions of their craft
from damage.

"Keep an eye on things for a while, Nadia," he instructed, as soon as she could handle the
controls, "and don't use any more power than is absolutely necessary. We'll need it all, and
besides, they can probably detect anything we can use. There's probably enough leakage from
the ruptured accumulator cells to mask quite a little emission, but don't use much. I'm going
to see what I can do about making this whole wedge navigable."

"Why not just launch what's left of this lifeboat? It's space-worthy, isn't it?"

"Yes, but it's too small. Two or three of the big dirigible projectors of the lower band are
on the rim of this piece-of-pie-shaped section we're riding, I think. If so, and if enough
batteries of accumulators are left intact to give them anywhere nearly full power, we can get
an acceleration that will make a lifeboat look sick. Those main dirigibles, you know, are able
to swing the whole mass of the Arcturus, and what they'll do to this one chunk of it--we've
got only a few thousand tons of mass in this piece--will be something pretty. Also, having
the metal may save us months of time in mining it."

He found the projectors, repaired or cut out the damaged accumulator cells, and reconnected
them through the controls of the lifeboat. He moved into the "engine-room" the airtanks, stores,
and equipment from all the other fragments which, by means of a space-suit, he could reach
without too much difficulty. From the battery rooms of those fragments--open shelves, after
being sliced open by the shearing ray--he helped himself to banks of accumulator cells from
the enormous driving batteries of the ill-fated Arcturus, bolting them down and connecting
them solidly until almost every compartment of their craft was one mass of stored-up energy.

Days fled like hours, so furiously busy were they in preparing their peculiar vessel for a
cruise of indefinite duration. Stevens cut himself short on sleep and snatched his meals in
passing; and Nadia, when not busy at her own tasks of observing, housekeeping, and doing what
little piloting was required, was rapidly learning to wield most effectively the spanner and
pliers of the mechanic and electrician.

"I'm afraid our time is getting short, Steve," she announced, after making an observation.
"It looks as though we're getting wherever it is we're going."

"Well, I've got only two more jobs to do, but they're the hardest of the lot. It is Jupiter,
or can you tell yet?"

"Jupiter or one of its satellites, I think, from the point where they reversed their power.
Here's the observation you told me to take."

"Looks like Jupiter," he agreed, after he had rapidly checked her figures. "We'll pass very
close to one of those two satellites--probably Ganymede--which is fine for our scheme. All
four of the major satellites have water and atmosphere, but Ganymede, being largest, is best
for our purposes. We've got a couple of days yet--just about time to finish up. Let's get going--you
know what to do."

"Steve, I'm afraid of it. It's too dangerous--isn't there some other way?"

"None that I can see. The close watch they're keeping on every bit of this junk makes it our
only chance for a get-away. I'm pretty sure I can do it--but if I should happen to get nipped,
just use enough power to let them know you're here, and you won't be any worse off than if
I hadn't tried to pull off this stunt."

He donned a space-suit, filled a looped belt with tools, picked up a portable power-drill,
and stepped into the tiny air-lock. Nadia deftly guided their segment against one of the larger
fragments and held it there with a gentle, steady pressure, while Stevens, a light cable paying
out behind him, clambered carefully over the wreckage, brought his drill into play, and disappeared
inside the huge wedge. In less than an hour he returned without mishap and reported to the
glowing girl.

"Just like shooting fish down a well! Most of the accumulator cells were tight, and installing
the relays wasn't a bad job at all. Believe me, girl, there'll be junk filling all the space
between here and Saturn when we touch them off!"

"Wonderful, Steve!" Nadia exclaimed. "It won't be so bad seeing you go into the others, now
that you have this one all rigged up."

       *       *       *       *       *

Around and around the mass of wreckage they crept, and in each of the larger sections Stevens
connected up the enormous fixed or dirigible projectors to whatever accumulator cells were
available through sensitive relays, all of which he could close by means of one radio impulse.
The long and dangerous task done, he stood at the lookout plate, studying the huge disk which
had been the upper portion of the lower half of the Arcturus and frowning in thought. Nadia
reached over his shoulder and switched off the plate.

"Nix on that second job, big fellow!" she declared. "They aren't really necessary, and you're
altogether too apt to be killed trying to get them. It's too ghastly--I won't stand for your
trying it, so that ends it."

"We ought to have them, really," he protested. "With those special tools, cutting torches,
and all the stuff, we'd be sitting pretty. We'll lose weeks of time by not having them."

"We'll just have to lose it, then. You can't get 'em, any more than a baby can get the moon,
so stop crying about it," she went over the familiar argument for the twentieth time. "That
stuff up there is all grinding together like cakes of ice in a floe; the particular section
you want is in plain sight of whoever is on watch; and those tools and things are altogether
too heavy to handle. You're a husky brute, I know, but even you couldn't begin to handle them,
even if you had good going. I couldn't help you very much, even if you'd let me try; and the
fact that you so positively refuse to let me come along shows how dangerous you know the attempt
is bound to be. You'd probably never even get up there alive, to say nothing of getting back
here. No, Steve, that's out like a light."

"I sure wish they'd left us weightless for a while, sometime, if only for an hour or two,"
he mourned.

"But they didn't!" she retorted, practically. "So we're just out of luck to that extent. Our
time is about up, too. It's time you worked us back to the tail end of this procession--or
rather, the head end, since we're traveling 'down' now."

Stevens took the controls and slowly worked along the outer edge of the mass, down toward its
extremity. Nadia put one hand upon his shoulder and he glanced around.

"Thanks, Steve. We have a perfectly wonderful chance as it is, and we've gone so far with our
scheme together that it would be a crying shame not to be able to go through with it. I'd hate
like sin to have to surrender to them now, and that's all I could do if anything should become
of you. Besides..." her voice died away into silence.

"Sure, you're right," he hastily replied, dodging the implication of that unfinished sentence.
"I couldn't figure out anything that looked particularly feasible anyway--that's why I didn't
try it. We'll pass it up."

Soon they arrived at their objective and maintained a position well in the van, but not sufficiently
far ahead of the rest to call forth a restraining ray from their captors. Already strongly
affected by the gravitational pull of the mass of the satellite, many of the smaller portions
of the wreck, not directly held by the tractors, began to separate from the main mass. As each
bit left its place another beam leaped out, until it became apparent that no more were available,
and Stevens strapped the girl and himself down before two lookout plates.

"Now for it, Nadia!" he exclaimed, and simultaneously threw on the power of his own projectors
and sent out the radio impulse which closed the relays he had so carefully set. They were thrown
against the restraining straps savagely and held there by an enormous weight as the gigantic
dirigible projectors shot their fragment of the wreck away from the comparatively slight force
which had been acting upon it, but they braced themselves and strained their muscles in order
to watch what was happening. As the relays in the various fragments closed, the massed power
of the accumulators was shorted dead across the converters and projectors instead of being
fed into them gradually through the controls of the pilot, with a result comparable to that
of the explosion of an ammunition dump. Most of the masses, whose projectors were fed by comparatively
few accumulator cells, darted away entirely with a stupendous acceleration. A few of them,
however, received the unimpeded flow of complete batteries. Those projectors tore loose from
even their massive supports and crashed through anything opposing them like a huge, armor-piercing
projectile. It was a spectacle to stagger the imagination, and Stevens grinned as he turned
to the girl, who was staring in wide-eyed amazement.

"Well, ace, I think they're busy enough now so that it'll be safe to take that long-wanted
look at their controls," and he flashed the twin beams of his lookout light out beyond the
upper half of the Arcturus--only to see them stop abruptly in mid-space. Even the extremely
short carrier-wave of Roeser's Rays could not go through the invisible barrier thrown out by
the tiny, but powerful globe of space.

"No penetration?" Nadia asked.

"Flattened them out cold. 'However,' as the fox once remarked about the grapes, 'I'll bet they're
sour, anyway.' We'll have some stuff of our own, one of these days. I sure hope the fireworks
we started back there keep those birds amused until we get out of sight, because if I use much
more power on these projectors we may not have juice enough left to stop with."

"You're using enough now to suit me--I'm so heavy I can hardly lift a finger!"

"You'd better lift 'em! You must watch what's going on back there while I navigate around this
moon."

"All x, chief.... They've got their hands full, apparently. Those rays are shooting around
all over the sky. It looks as though they were trying to capture four or five things at once
with each one."

"Good! Tell me when the moon cuts them off."

       *       *       *       *       *

At the awful acceleration they were using, which constantly increased the terrific velocity
with which they had been traveling when they made good their escape, it was not long until
they had placed the satellite between them and the enemy; then Stevens cut down and reversed
his power. Such was their speed, however, that a long detour was necessary in order to reduce
it to a safe landing rate. As soon as this could be done, Stevens headed for the morning zone
and dropped the "Hope" rapidly toward the surface of that new, strange world. Details could
not be distinguished at first because of an all-enshrouding layer of cloud, but the rising
sun dispelled the mist, and when they had descended to within a few thousand feet of the surface,
their vision was unobstructed. Immediately below them the terrain was mountainous and heavily
wooded; while far to the east the rays of a small, pale sun glinted upon a vast body of water.
No signs of habitation were visible as far as the eye could reach.

"Now to pick out a location for our power-plant. We must have a waterfall for power, a good
place to hide our ship from observation, and I'd like to have a little seam of coal. We can
use wood if we have to, but I think we can find some coal. This is all sedimentary rock--it
looks a lot like the country along the North Fork of the Flathead, in Montana. There are a
lot of coal outcrops, usually, in such topography as this is."

"We want to hide in a hurry, though, don't we?"

"Not particularly, I think. If they had missed us at all, they would have had us long ago,
and with all the damage we did with those projectors they won't be surprised at one piece being
missing--I imagine they lost a good many."

"But they'll know that somebody caused all that disturbance. Won't they hunt for us?"

"Maybe, and maybe not--no telling what they'll do. However, by the time they can land and get
checked up and ready to hunt for us, we'll be a mighty small needle, well hidden in a good
big haystack."

For several hours they roamed over the mountainous region at high velocity, seeking the best
possible location, and finally they found one that was almost ideal--a narrow canyon overhung
with heavy trees, opening into a wide, deep gorge upon a level with its floor. A mighty waterfall
cascaded into the gorge just above the canyon, and here and there could be seen black outcrops
which Stevens, after a close scrutiny, declared to be coal. He deftly guided their cumbersome
wedge of steel into the retreat, allowed it to settle gently to the ground, and shut off the power.

"Well, little fellow-conspirator against the peace and dignity of the Jovians, I don't know
just where we are, but wherever it is, we're here. We got away clean, and as long as we don't
use any high-tension stuff or anything else that they can trace, I think we're as safe as money
in a bank."

"I suppose that I ought to be scared to death, Steve, but I'm not--I'm just too thrilled for
words," Nadia answered, and the eager sparkle in her eyes bore out her words. "Can we go out
now? How about air? Shall we wear suits or go out as we are? Have you got a weapon of any kind?
Hurry up--let's do something!"

"Pipe down, ace! Remember that we don't know any more about anything around here than a pig
does about Sunday, and conduct yourself accordingly. Take it easy. I'm surprised at the gravity
here. This is certainly Ganymede, and it has a diameter of only about fifty seven hundred kilometers.
If I remember correctly, Damoiseau estimated its mass at about three one-hundredths that of
the Earth, which would make its surface gravity about one-sixth. However, it is actually almost
a half, as you see by this spring-balance here. Therefore it is quite a little more massive
than has been...."

"What of it? Let's go places and do things!"

"Calm yourself, Ginger, you've got lots of time--we'll be here for quite a while, I'm afraid.
We can't go out until we analyze the air--we're sure lucky there's as much as there is. I'm
not exactly the world's foremost chemist, but fortunately an air-analysis isn't much of a job
with the apparatus we carry."

While Nadia controlled her impatience as best she could, Stevens manipulated the bulbs and
pipettes of the gas apparatus.

"Pressure, fifty-two centimeters--more than I dared hope for--and analysis all x, I believe.
Oxygen concentration a little high, but not much."

"We won't have to wear the space-suits, then?"

"Not unless I missed something in the analysis. The pressure corresponds to our own at a height
of about three thousand meters, which we can get used to without too much trouble. Good thing,
too. I brought along all the air I could get hold of, but as I told you back there, if we had
to depend on it altogether, we might be out of luck. I'm going to pump some of our air back
into a cylinder to equalize our pressure--don't want to waste any of it until we're sure the
outside air suits us without treatment."

       *       *       *       *       *

When the pressure inside had been gradually reduced to that outside and they had become accustomed
to breathing the rarefied medium, Stevens opened the airlock and the outside doors, and for
some time cautiously sniffed the atmosphere of the satellite. He could detect nothing harmful
or unusual in it--it was apparently the same as earthly air--and he became jubilant.

"All x, Nadia--luck is perched right on our banner. Freedom, air, water, power, and coal! Now
as you suggested, we'll go places and do things!"

"Suppose it's safe?" Her first eagerness to explore their surroundings had abated noticeably.
"You aren't armed, are you?"

"No, and I don't believe that there was a gun of any kind aboard the Arcturus. That kind of
thing went out quite a while ago, you know. We'll take a look, anyway--we've got to find out
about that coal before we decide to settle down here. Remember this half-gravity stuff, and
control your leg-muscles accordingly."

Leaping lightly to the ground, they saw that the severed section of fifty-inch armor, which
was the rim of their conveyance, almost blocked the entrance to the narrow canyon which they
had selected for their retreat. Upon one side that wall of steel actually touched the almost
perpendicular wall or rock; upon the other side there was left only a narrow passage. They
stepped through it, so that they could see the waterfall and the gorge, and stopped silent.
The sun, now fairly high, was in no sense the familiar orb of day, but was a pale, insipid
thing, only one-fifth the diameter of the sun to which they were accustomed, and which could
almost be studied with the unshielded eye. From their feet a grassy meadow a few hundred feet
wide sloped gently down to the river, from whose farther bank a precipice sprang upward for
perhaps a thousand feet--merging into towering hills whose rugged grandeur was reminiscent
of the topography of the moon. At their backs the wall of the gorge was steep, but not precipitous,
and was covered with shrubs and trees--some of which leaned out over the little canyon, completely
screening it, and among whose branches birds could now and then be seen flitting about. In
that direction no mountains were visible, indicating that upon their side of the river there
was an upland plateau or bench. To their right the river, the gorge, and the strip of meadow
extended for a mile or more, then curved away and were lost to sight. To their left, almost
too close for comfort, was the stupendous cataract, towering above them to a terror-inspiring
height. Nadia studied it with awe, which changed to puzzled wonder.

"What's the matter with it, Steve? It looks like a picture in slow motion, like the kind they
take of your dives--or am I seeing things?"

"No, it's really slow, compared to what we're used to. Remember that one-half gravity stuff!"

"Oh, that's right, but it certainly does look funny. It gives me the creeps."

"You'll get used to it pretty quick--just as you'll get used to all the rest of the things
having only half their earthly weight and falling only half as fast as they ought to when you
drop them. Well, I don't see anything that looks dangerous yet--let's go up toward the falls
a few meters and prospect that outcrop."

With a few brisk strokes of an improvised shovel he cleared the outcrop of detritus and broke
off several samples of the black substance, with which they went back to the "Forlorn Hope."

"It's real coal," Stevens announced after a series of tests. "I've seen better, but on the
other hand, there's lots worse. It'll make good gas, and a kind of a coke. Not so hot, but
it'll do. Now we'd better get organized old partner, for a long campaign."

"Go ahead and organize--I'm only the cheap help in this enterprise."

"Cheap help! You're apt to be the life of the party. Can you make and shoot a bow and arrow?"

"I'll say I can--I've belonged to an archery club for five years."

"What did I tell you? You're a life saver! Here's the dope--we've got to save our own supplies
as much as possible until we know exactly what we're up against, and to do that, we've got
to live off the country. I'll fake up something to knock over some of those birds and small
game, then we can make real bow-strings and feathered arrows and I'll forge some steel arrow-heads
while you're making yourself a real bow. We'd better make me about a hundred-pound war bow,
too...."

"A hundred!" interrupted Nadia. "That's a lot of bow, big boy--think you can bend it?"

"You'd be surprised," he grinned. "I'm not quite like Robin Hood--I've been known to miss a
finger-thick wand at a hundred paces--but I'm not exactly a beginner."

"Oh, of course--I should have known by your language that you're an archer, otherwise you'd
never have used such an old-fashioned word as 'pounds.' I shoot a thirty-five-pound bow ordinarily,
but for game I should have the heaviest one I can hold accurately--about a forty-five, probably."

"All x. And as soon as I can I'll make us a couple of suits of fairly heavy steel armor, so
that we'll have real protection if we should need it. You see, we don't know what we are apt
to run up against out here. Then, with that much done, it'll be up to you to provide, since
I'll have to work tooth and nail at the forges. You'll have to bring home the bacon, do the
cooking and so on, and see what you can find along the line of edible roots, grains, fruits,
and what-not. Sort of reverse the Indian idea--you be the hunter and I'll keep the home fires
burning. Can do?"

"What it takes to do that, I've got," Nadia assured him, her eyes sparkling. "Have you your
job planned out as well and as fittingly as you have mine?"

"And then some. We've got just two methods of getting away from here--one is to get in touch
with Brandon, so that he'll come after us; the other is to recharge our accumulators and try
to make it under our own power. Either course will need power and lots of it...."

"I never thought of going back in the 'Hope.' Suppose we could?"

"About as doubtful as the radio--I think that I could build a pair of matched-frequency auto-dirigible
transmitter and receptor units, such as are necessary for space-ships fed by stationary power-plants,
but after I got them built, they'd take us less than half way there. Then we'd have only what
power we can carry, and I hate even to think of what probably would happen to us. We'd certainly
have to drift for months before we could get close enough to any of our plants to radio for
help, and we'd be taking awful chances. You see, we'd have to take a very peculiar orbit, and
if we should miss connections passing the inner planets, what the sun would do to us at the
closest point and where what's left of us would go on the back-swing, would be just too bad!
Besides, if we can get hold of the Sirius, they'll come loaded for bear, and we may be able
to do something about the rest of the folks out here."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Oh!" breathed the girl. "Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could! I thought, of course, they'd
all be...." her voice died away.

"Not necessarily--there's always a chance. That's why I'm trying the ultra-radio first. However,
either course will take lots of power, so the first thing I've got to do is to build a power
plant. I'm going to run a penstock up those falls, and put in a turbine, driving a high-tension
alternator. Then, while I'm trying to build the ultra-radio, I'll be charging our accumulators,
so that no time will be lost in case the radio fails. If it does fail--and remember I'm not
counting on its working--of course I'll tackle the transmission and receptor units before we
start out to drift it."

"You say it easy, Steve, but how can you build all those things, with nothing to work with?"

"It's going to be a real job--I'm not try to kid you into thinking it'll be either easy or
quick. Here's the way everything will go. Before I can even lay the first length of the penstock,
I've got to have the pipe--to make which I've got to have flat steel--to get which I'll have
to cut some of the partitions out of this ship of ours--to do which I'll have to have a cutting
torch--to make which I'll have to forge nozzles out of block metal and to run which I'll have
to have gas--to get which I'll have to mine coal and build a gas-plant--to do which...."

"Good heavens, Steve, are you going back to the Stone Age? I never thought of half those things.
Why, it's impossible!"

"Not quite, guy. Things could be a lot worse--that's why I brought along the whole 'Forlorn
Hope,' instead of just the lifeboat. As it is, we've got several thousand tons of spare steel
and lots of copper. We've got ordinary tools and a few light motors, blowers, and such stuff.
That gives me a great big start--I won't have to mine the ores and smelt the metals, as would
have been necessary otherwise. However, it'll be plenty bad. I'll have to start out in a pretty
crude fashion, and for some of the stuff I'll need I'll have to make, not only the machine
that makes the part I want, but also the machine that makes the machine that makes the machine
that makes it--and so on, just how far down the line, I haven't dared to think."

"You must be a regular jack-of-all-trades, to think you can get away with such a program as that?"

"I am--nothing else but. You see, while most of my school training was in advanced physics
and mathematics, I worked my way through by computing and designing, and I've done a lot of
truck-horse labor of various kinds besides. I can calculate and design almost anything, and
I can make a pretty good stab at translating a design into fabricated material. I wouldn't
wonder if Brandon's ultra-radio would stop me, since nobody had even started to build one when
I saw him last--but I helped compute it, know the forces involved as well as he did at that
time, and it so happens that I know more about the design of coils and fields of force than
I do about anything else. So I may be able to work it out eventually. It isn't going to be
not knowing how that will hold me up--it'll be the lack of something that I can't build."

"And that's where you will go back and back and back, as you said about building the penstock?"

"Back and back is right, if I can find all the necessary raw materials--that's what's probably
going to put a lot of monkey-wrenches into the machinery." And Stevens went to work upon a
weapon of offense, fashioning a crude, but powerful bow from a strip of spring steel strung
with heavy wire.

"How about arrows? Shall I go see if I can hit a bird with a rock, for feathers, and see if
I can find something to make arrows out of?"

"Not yet--anyway, I'd bet on the birds! I'm going to use pieces of this light brace-rod off
the accumulator cells for arrows. They won't fly true, of course, but with their mass I can
give them enough projectile force to kill any small animal they hit, no matter how they hit it."

After many misses, he finally bagged a small animal, something like a rabbit and something
like a kangaroo, and a couple of round-bodied, plump birds, almost as large as domestic hens.
These they dressed, with considerable distaste and a noticeable lack of skill.

"We'll get used to it pretty quick, Diana--also more expert," he said when the task was done.
"We now have raw material for bow-strings and clothes, as well as food."

"The word 'raw' being heavily accented," Nadia declared, with a grimace. "But how do we know
that they're good to eat?"

"We'll have to eat 'em and see," he grinned. "I don't imagine that any flesh is really poisonous,
and we'll have to arrive at the ones we like best by a process of trial and error. Well, here's
your job--I'll get busy on mine. Don't go more than a few hundred meters away and yell if you
get into a jam."

"There's a couple of questions I want to ask you. What makes it so warm here, when the sun's
so far away and Jupiter isn't supposed to be radiating any heat? And how about time? It's twelve
hours by my watch since sunrise this morning, and it's still shining."

"As for heat, I've been wondering about that. It must be due to internal heat, because even
though Jupiter may be warm, or even hot, it certainly isn't radiating much, since it has a
temperature of minus two hundred at the visible surface, which, of course, is the top of the
atmosphere. Our heat here is probably caused by radioactivity--that's the most modern dope,
I believe. As for time, it looks as though our days were something better than thirty hours
long, instead of twenty-four. Of course I'll keep the chronometer going on I-P time, since
we'll probably need it in working out observations; but we might as well let our watches run
down and work, eat, and sleep by the sun--not much sense in trying to keep Tellurian time here,
as I see it. Check?"

"All x. I'll have supper ready for you at sunset. 'Bye!"

A few evenings later, when Stevens came in after his long day's work, he was surprised to see
Nadia dressed in a suit of brown coveralls and high-laced moccasins.

"How do I look?" she asked, pirouetting gayly.

"Neat, but not gaudy," he approved. "That's good mole-skin--smooth, soft, and tough. Where'd
you make the raise? I didn't know we had anything like that on board. What did you do for thread?
You look like a million dollars--you sure did a good job of fitting."

"I had to have something--what with all the thorns and brush, there was almost more of me exposed
than covered, and I was getting scratched up something fierce. So I ripped up one of the space-suits,
and found out that there's enough cloth, fur, and leather in one of them to make six ordinary
suits, and thread by the kilometer. I was awfully glad to see all that thread--I had an idea
that I'd have to unravel my stockings or something, but I didn't. Your clothes are getting
pretty tacky, too, and you're getting all burned with those hot coals and things. I'm going
to build you a suit out of leather for your blacksmithing activities."

"Fine business, ace! Then we can save what's left of our civilized clothes for the return trip.
What do we eat?"

"The eternal question of the hungry laboring man! I've got a roasted bongo, a fried filamaloo
bird, and a boiled warple for the meat dishes. For vegetables, mashed hikoderms and pimola
greens. Neocorn bread."

"Translate that, please, into terms of food."

"Translate it yourself, after you eat it. I changed the system on you today. I've named all
the things, so it'll be easier to keep track of those we like and the ones we don't."

With appetites sharp-set by long hours of hard labor they ate heartily; then, in the deepening
twilight, they sat and talked in comradely fashion while Stevens smoked one precious cigarette.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not long until Nadia had her work well in hand. Game was plentiful, and the fertile
valley and the neighboring upland yielded peculiar, but savory vegetable foods in variety and
abundance; so that soon she was able to spend some time with Stevens, helping him as much as
she could. Thus she came to realize the true magnitude of the task he faced and the real seriousness
of their position.

As Stevens had admitted before the work was started, he had known that he had set himself a
gigantic task, but he had not permitted himself to follow, step by step, the difficulties that
he knew awaited him. Now, as the days stretched into weeks and on into months, he was forced
to take every laborious step, and it was borne in upon him just how nearly impossible that
Herculean labor was to prove--just how dependent any given earthly activity is upon a vast
number of others. Here he was alone--everything he needed must be manufactured by his own hands,
from its original sources. He had known that progress would be slow and he had been prepared
for that; but he had not pictured, even to himself, half of the maddening setbacks which occurred
time after time because of the crudity of the tools and equipment he was forced to use. All
too often a machine or part, the product of many hours of grueling labor, would fail because
of the lack of some insignificant thing--some item so common as to be taken for granted in
all terrestrial shops, but impossible of fabrication with the means at his disposal. At such
times he would set his grim jaw a trifle harder, go back one step farther toward the Stone
Age, and begin all over again--to find the necessary raw material or a possible substitute,
and then to build the apparatus and machinery necessary to produce the part he required. Thus
the heart-breaking task progressed, and Nadia watched her co-laborer become leaner and harder
and more desperate day by day, unable in any way to lighten his fearful load.

In the brief period of rest following a noonday meal, Stevens lay prone upon the warm, fragrant
grass beside the "Forlorn Hope," but it was evident to Nadia that he was not resting. His burned
and blistered hands were locked savagely behind his head, his eyes were closed too tightly,
and every tense line of his body was eloquent of a strain even more mental than physical. She
studied him for minutes, her fine eyes clouded, then sat down beside him and put her hand upon
his shoulder.

"I want to talk to you a minute, Steve," she said gently.

"All x, little fellow--but it might be just as well if you didn't touch me. You see, I'm getting
so rabid that I can't trust myself."

"That's exactly what I want to talk to you about." A fiery blush burned through her deep tan,
but her low, clear voice did not falter and her eyes held his unflinchingly. "I know you better
than you know yourself, as I've said before. You are killing yourself, but it isn't the work,
frightfully hard and disheartening as it is, that is doing it--it's your anxiety for me and
the uncertainty of everything. You haven't been able to rest because you have been raging and
fuming so at unavoidable conditions--you have been fighting facts. And it's all so useless,
Steve, between you and me--everything would check out on zero if we'd just come out into the open."

The man's gaunt frame seemed to stiffen even more rigidly.

"You've said altogether too much or else only half enough, Nadia. You know, of course, that
I've loved you ever since I got really to know you--and that didn't take long. You know that
I love you and you know how I love you--with the real love that a man can feel for only one
woman and only once in his life; and you know exactly what we're up against. Now that does
tear it--wide open!" he finished bitterly.

"No, it doesn't, at all," she replied, steadily. "Of course I know that you love me, and I
glory in it; and since you don't seem to realize that I love you in exactly the same way, I'll
tell you so. Love you! Good heavens, Steve, I never dreamed that such a man as you are really
existed! But you're fighting too many things at once, and they're killing you. And they're
mostly imaginary, at that. Can't you see that there's no need of uncertainty between you and
me? That there is no need of you driving yourself to desperation on my account? Whatever must
be is all x with me, Steve. If you can build everything you need, all well and good. We'll
be engaged until then, and our love will be open and sweet. If worst comes to worst, so that
we can neither communicate with Brandon and Westfall nor leave here under our own power--even
that is nothing to kill ourselves about. And yes, I do know exactly what we are facing. I have
been prepared for it ever since I first saw what a perfectly impossible thing you are attempting.
You are trying to go from almost the Age of Bronze clear up to year-after-next in a month or
two. Not one man in a million could have done as much in his lifetime as you have done in the
last few weeks, and I do not see how even you, with what little you have to work with, can
possibly build such things as power-plants, transmitters, and ultra-radio stations. But what
of it? For the day that it becomes clear that we are to remain here indefinitely; that day
we will marry each other here, before God. Look around at this beautiful country. Could there
be a finer world upon which to found a new race? When we decided to cut loose from the Arcturus
I told you that I was with you all the way, and now I'll repeat it, with a lot more meaning.
No matter what it's like, Steve, no matter where it leads to, I'm with you--to--the--end--of--the--road.
Here or upon Earth or anywhere in the Universe. I am yours for life and for eternity."

       *       *       *       *       *

While she was speaking, the grim, strained lines upon Stevens' face had disappeared, and as
she fell silent he straightened up and gently, tenderly, reverently he took her lithe body
into his arms.

"You're right, sweetheart--everything will check out on zero, to nineteen decimals." He was
a man transfigured. "I've been fighting windmills and I've been scared sick--but how was I
to think that a wonder-girl like you could ever love a mutt like me? You certainly are the
gamest little partner a man ever had You're the world's straightest shooter, ace--you're a
square brick if there ever was one. Your sheer nerve in being willing to go the whole route
makes me love you more than ever, if such a thing can be possible, and it certainly puts a
new face on the whole cock-eyed Universe for me. However, I don't believe it will come to that.
After what you've just said, I sure will lick that job, regardless of how many different factories
it takes to make one armature--I'll show that mess of scrap-iron what kind of trees make shingles!"

The girl still in his arms, he rose to his feet and released her slowly, reluctantly, unwilling
ever to let her go. Then he shook himself, as though an overwhelming burden had been lifted
from his shoulders, and laughed happily.

"See this cigarette?" he went on lightly. "The Last of the Mohicans. I'm going to smoke it
in honor of our engagement." He drew the fragrant smoke deep into his lungs and frowned at
her in mock seriousness.

"This would be a nice world to live on, of course, but the jobs here are too darn steady. It
also seems to be somewhat lacking in modern conveniences, such as steel-mills and machine tools.
Then, too, it is just a trifle too far from the Royal and Ancient for you really to enjoy living
here permanently, and besides, I can't get my favorite brand of cigarettes around here. Therefore,
after due deliberation, I don't believe we'll take the place--we'll go back to Tellus. Kiss
me just once more ace, and I'll make that job think a cyclone has struck it right on the center
of impact. Like Samuel Weller, or whoever it was, I'm clear full of 'wigor, wim, and witality'!"

The specified kiss and several others duly delivered he strode blithely away, and the little
canyon resounded with the blows of his heavy sledge as he attacked with renewed spirit the
great forging, white-hot from his soak-pit, which was to become the shaft of his turbo-alternator.
Nadia watched him for a moment, her very heart in her eyes, then picked up her spanner and
went after more steel, breathing a long and tremulous, but supremely happy sigh.

CHAPTER IV

Ganymedean Life

Slow, hard, and disheartening as the work had been at first, Stevens had never slackened his
pace, and after a time, as his facilities increased, the exasperating setbacks decreased in
number and severity and his progress became faster and faster. Large as the "Forlorn Hope"
was, space was soon at a premium, for their peculiarly-shaped craft became a veritable factory,
housing a variety of machinery and equipment unknown in any single earthly industrial plant.
Nothing was ornamental--everything was stripped to its barest fundamental necessities--but
every working part functioned with a smooth precision to delight the senses of any good mechanic.

In a cavern under the falls was the great turbine, to be full-fed by the crude but tight penstock
which clung to the wall of the gorge, angling up to the brink of that stupendous cataract.
Bedded down upon solid rock there was a high-tension alternator capable of absorbing the entire
output of the mighty turbine. This turbo-alternator was connected to a set of converters from
which the energy would flow along three great copper cables--the receptors of the lifeboats
being altogether too small to carry the load--to the now completely exhausted accumulators
of the "Forlorn Hope." All high-tension apparatus was shielded and grounded, so that no stray
impulses could reveal to the possible detectors of the Jovians the presence of this foreign
power plant. Housings, frames, spiders, all stationary parts were rough, crude and massive;
but bearings, shafts, armatures, all moving parts, were of a polished and finished accuracy
and balance that promised months and years of trouble-free operation. Everything ready for
the test, Stevens took off his frayed and torn leather coveralls and moccasins and climbed
nimbly up the penstock. He never walked down. Opening the head-gate, he poised sharply upon
its extremity and took off in a perfect swan-dive; floating unconcernedly down toward that
boiling maelstrom two hundred feel below. He struck the water with a sharp, smooth "slup!"
and raced ashore, seizing his suit as he ran toward the turbo-alternator. It was running smoothly,
and, knowing that everything was tight at the receiving end, he lingered about the power plant
until he was assured that nothing would go wrong and that his home manufactured lubricating
oil and grease would keep those massive bearings cool.

Hunger assailed him, and glancing at the sun, he noted that it was well past dinner-time.

"Wow!" he exclaimed aloud. "The boss just loves to wait meals--she'll burn me up for this!"

He ran lightly toward "home," eager to tell his sweetheart that the long awaited moment had
arrived--that power was now flowing into their accumulators.

"Hi, Diana of the silver bow!" he called. "How come you no blow the dinner bell? Power's on--come
give it a look!"

There was no answer to his hail, and Stevens paused in shocked amazement. He knew that never
of her own volition would she be out so late--Nadia was gone! A rapid tour of inspection quickly
confirmed that which he already knew only too well. Forgotten was his hunger, forgotten the
power plant, forgotten everything except the fact that his Nadia, the buoyant spirit in whom
centered his Universe, was lost or ... he could not complete the thought, even to himself.

Swiftly he came to a decision and threw off his suit, revealing the body of a Hercules--a body
ready for any demand he could put upon it. Always in hard training, months of grinding physical
labor and of heavy eating had built him up to a point at which he would scarcely have recognized
himself, could he have glanced into a mirror. Mighty but pliable muscles writhed and swelled
under his clear skin as he darted here and there, selecting equipment for what lay ahead of
him. He donned the heavily armored space-suit which they had prepared months before, while
they were still suspicious of possible attack. It was covered with heavy steel at every point,
and the lenses of the helmet, already of unbreakable glass, had been re-enforced with thick
steel bars. Tank and valves supplied air at normal pressure, so that his powerful body could
function at full efficiency, not handicapped by the lighter atmosphere of Ganymede. The sleeves
terminated in steel-protected rubber wristlets which left his hands free, yet sheltered from
attack--wristlets tight enough to maintain the difference in pressure, yet not tight enough
to cut off the circulation. He took up his mighty war-bow and the full quiver of heavy arrows--full-feathered
and pointed with savagely barbed, tearing heads of forged steel--and slipped into their sheaths
the long and heavy razor-sharp sword and the double-edged dirk, which he had made and ground
long since for he knew not what emergency, and whose bell-shaped hilts of steel further protected
his hands and wrists. Thus equipped, he had approximately his normal earthly weight; a fact
which would operate to his advantage, rather than otherwise, in case of possible combat. With
one last look around the "Forlorn Hope," whose every fitting spoke to him of the beloved mistress
who was gone, he filled a container with water and cooked food and opened the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It won't be long now; now it won't be long." Nadia caroled happily, buckling on her pack straps
and taking up bow and arrows for her daily hunt. "I never thought that he could do it, but
what it takes to do things, he's got lots of," she continued to improvise the song as she left
the "Hope" with its multitudinous devices whose very variety was a never-failing delight to
her; showing as it did the sheer ability of the man, whose brain and hands had almost finished
a next-to-impossible task.

Through the canyon and up a well-worn trail she climbed, and soon came out upon the sparsely
timbered bench that was her hunting grounds. Upon this day, however, she was full of happy
anticipation and her mind was everywhere except upon her work. She was thinking of Stevens,
of their love, of the power which he might turn on that very day, and of the possible rescue
for which she had hitherto scarcely dared to hope. Thus it was that she walked miles beyond
her usual limits without having loosed an arrow, and she was surprised when she glanced up
at the sun to see that half the morning was gone and that she was almost to the foothills,
beyond which rose a towering range of mountains.

"Snap out of it, girl!" she reprimanded herself. "Go on wool-gathering like this and your man
will go hungry--and he'll break you right off at the ankles!" She became again the huntress,
and soon saw an animal browsing steadily along the base of a hill. It was a six-legged, deer-like
creature, much larger than anything she had as yet seen. But it was meat and her time was short,
therefore she crept within range and loosed an arrow with the full power of her hunting bow.
Unfamiliar as she was with the anatomy of the peculiar creature, the arrow did not kill. The
"hexaped," as she instantly named it, sped away and she leaped after it. She, like her companion,
had developed amazingly in musculature, and few indeed were the denizens of Ganymede, who could
equal her speed upon that small globe, with its feeble gravitational force.

Up the foothills it darted. Beyond the hills and deep into a valley between two towering peaks
the chase continued before Nadia's third arrow brought the animal down. Bending over the game,
she became conscious of a strange but wonderful sweet perfume and glanced up, to see something
which she certainly had not noticed when the hexaped had fallen. It was an enormous flower,
at least a foot in diameter and indescribably beautiful in its crimson and golden splendor.
Almost level with her head the gorgeous blossom waved upon its heavy stem; based by a massive
cluster of enormous, smooth, dark green leaves. Entranced by this unexpected and marvelous
floral display, Nadia breathed deeply of the inviting fragrance--and collapsed senseless upon
the ground. Thereupon the weird plant moved over toward her, and the thick leaves began to
enfold her knees. This carnivorous thing, however, did not like the heavy cloth of her suit
and turned to the hexaped. It thrust several of its leaves into the wounds upon the carcass
and fed, while two other leaves rasped together, sending out a piercing call.

In answer to the sound the underbrush crackled, and through it and upon the scene there crashed
a vegetable-animal nightmare--the parent of the relatively tiny thing whose perfume had disabled
the girl.

Its huge and gorgeous blossom was supported by a long, flexible, writhing stem, and its base
was composed of many and highly specialized leaves. There were saws and spears and mighty,
but sinuous tendrils; there were slender shoots which seemed to possess some sense of perception;
there was the massive tractor base composed of extensible leaves which by their contraction
and expansion propelled the mass along the ground. Parent and child fell upon the hexaped and
soon bones and hair were all that remained The slender shoots then wandered about the unconscious
girl in her strange covering, and as a couple of powerful tendrils coiled about her and raised
her into the air over the monstrous base of the thing, its rudimentary brain could almost be
perceived working as it sluggishly realized that, now full fed, it should carry this other
victim along, to feed its other offspring when they should return to its side.

       *       *       *       *       *

Barely outside the door of the "Forlorn Hope" Stevens whirled about with a bitter imprecation.
He had already lost time needlessly--with a lookout plate he could cover more ground in ten
minutes than he could cover afoot in a week. He flipped on the power and shot the violet beam
out over the plateau to the district where he knew Nadia was wont to hunt. Not finding her
there, he swung the beam in an ever widening circle around that district. Finally he saw a
few freshly broken twigs, and scanned the scene with care. He soon found the trail of fresh
blood which marked the path of the flight of the hexaped, and with the peculiar maneuverability
of the device he was using, it was not long until he was studying the scene where the encounter
had taken place. He gasped when he saw the bones and perceived three of Nadia's arrows, but
soon saw that the skeleton was not human and was reassured. Casting about in every direction,
he found Nadia's bow, and saw a peculiar, freshly trampled path leading from the kill, past
the bow, down the valley. He could not understand the spoor, but it was easily followed, and
he shot the beam along it at headlong speed until he came up with the monstrous creature that
was making it--until he saw what burden that organism was carrying.

He leaped to the controls of the lifeboat, then dropped his hand. While the stream of power
now flowing was ample to operate the lookout plates, yet it would be many hours before the
accumulator cells would be in condition to drive the craft even that short distance.

"It'll take over an hour to get there--here's hoping I can check in all x," he muttered savagely,
as he took careful note of the location and direction of the creature's trail and set off at
a fast jog-trot.

The carnivorous flower's first warning that all was not well was received when Stevens' steel-shod
feet landed squarely upon its base and one sweeping cut of his sword lopped off the malignant
blossom and severed the two tendrils that still held the unconscious Nadia. With a quick heave
of his shoulder, he tossed her lightly backward into the smooth-beaten track the creature had
made and tried to leap away--but the instant he had consumed in rescuing the girl had been
enough for the thing to seize him, and he found himself battling for his very life. No soft-leaved
infant this, but a full-grown monster, well equipped with mighty weapons of offense and defense.
Well it was for the struggling man that he was encased in armor steel as those saw-edged, hard-spiked
leaves drove against him with crushing force; well it was for him that he had his own independent
air supply, so that that deadly perfume eddied ineffective about his helmeted head! Hard and
fiercely driven as those terrible thorns were, they could do no more than dent his heavy armor.
His powerful left arm, driving the double-razor-edged dirk in short, resistless arcs, managed
to keep the snaky tendrils from coiling about his right arm, which was wielding the heavy,
trenchant sword. Every time that mighty blade descended it cleaved its length through snapping
spikes and impotently grinding leaves; but more than once a flailing tendril coiled about his
neck armor and held his helmet immovable as though in a vise, while those frightful, grinding
saws sought to rip their way through the glass to the living creature inside the peculiar metal
housing. Dirk and saber and magnificent physique finally triumphed, but it was not until each
leaf was literally severed from every other leaf that the outlandish organism gave up the ghost.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nadia had been tossed out into pure air, beyond the zone of the stupefying perfume, and she
recovered her senses in time to see the finish of the battle. Stevens, assured that his foe
was hors du combat, turned toward the spot where he had thrown Nadia's body. He saw that she
was unharmed, and sprang toward her in relief. He was surprised beyond measure, however, to
see her run away at a pace he could not hope to equal, encumbered as he was; motioning frantically
at him the while to keep away from her. He stopped, astounded, and started to unscrew his helmet,
whereupon she dashed back toward him, signaling him emphatically to leave his armor exactly
as it was. He stood still and stared at her, an exasperated question large upon his face, until
she made clear to him that he was to follow her at a safe distance, then she set off at a rapid
walk. She led him back to where the hexaped had fallen, where she retrieved her bow and arrows;
then, keeping a sharp lookout upon all sides, she went on to a small stream of water. She made
the dumbfounded man go out into the middle of the creek and lie down and roll over in the water,
approaching him sniffing cautiously between immersions. She made him continue the bathing until
she could detect not even the slightest trace of the sweet, but noxious fragrance of that peculiarly
terrible form of Ganymedean life. Only then did she allow him to remove his helmet, so that
she could give him the greeting for which they both had longed and tell him what it was all about.

"So that's it, ace!" he exclaimed, still holding her tightly in his iron embrace. "Great balls
of fire! I thought maybe you were still a little cuckoo. Anaesthetic perfume, huh? Hot stuff,
I'd say--no wonder you bit--I would, too. It's lucky for us I was air-tight--we'd both be fee...."

"Stop it!" she interrupted him sharply, "Forget it--don't ever even think of it!"

"All x, ace. It's out like the well known light. What to do? It's getting darker than a hat,
and we're a long way from home. Don't know whether I could find my way back in the dark or
not; and just between you and me, I'm not particularly keen on night travel in these parts
after what's just happened. Are you?"

"Anything else but," she assured him, fervently. "I'd lots rather stay hungry until tomorrow."

"No need of that--I've brought along enough supper for both of us. I'm hungry as a wolf, too,
now that I have time to think of it. We'll eat and den up somewhere--or climb a tree. Those
wampuses probably can't climb trees!"

"There's a nice little cave back there about a hundred meters. We'll pretend it's the Ritz,"
and they soon had a merry fire blazing in front of the retreat. There they ate of the provisions
Stevens had brought. Then, while the man rolled up boulders before the narrow entrance of the
cave, Nadia gathered leaves and made a soft bed upon its warm, dry floor.

"Good night, lover," and the girl, untroubled and secure now that Stevens was at her side,
was almost instantly asleep; but the man was not sleepy. He thought of the power plant, even
now sending its terrific stream of energy into his accumulators. He thought of the ultra radio--where
could he get all the materials needed? He thought of his friends, wondering whether or not
they would receive his message. He thought of Breckenridge and the other human beings who had
been aboard the Arcturus, wondering poignantly as to their fate. He thought of Newton and of
his own people, who had certainly given them up for dead long since.

But above all he thought of the beautiful, steel-true companion lying there asleep at his mailed
feet, and he gazed down at her, his heart in his eyes. The firelight shone through the chinks
between the boulders, casting a flickering ruddy light throughout the little cavern. Nadia
lay there her head pillowed upon one strong, brown little hand. Her lips were red and sweetly
curved, her cheek was smooth and firm as so much brown velvet. She was literally aglow with
sheer beauty and with perfect health; and the man reflected, as he studied her hungrily, that
this wild life certainly had agreed with her--she was becoming more surpassingly beautiful
with every passing day.

"You little trump--you wonderful, lovely, square little brick!" he breathed silently, and bent
over to touch her cheek lightly with his lips. Slight as the caress was, it disturbed her,
and even in her sleep her subconscious mind sent out an exploring hand, to touch her Steve
and thus be reassured. He pressed her hand and she settled back comfortably, with a long, deep
breath; and he stretched his iron-clad length beside her and closed his eyes, firmly resolved
not to waste a minute of this wonderful night in sleep.

When he opened them an instant later, it was broad daylight, the boulders had been rolled away,
the fragrance of roasting meat permeated the atmosphere, and Nadia was making a deafening clamor,
beating his steel breastplate lustily with the flat of his huge saber.

"Daylight in the swamp, you sleeper!" she exclaimed. "Roll out or roll up! Come and get it,
before I throw it away!"

"I must have been kind of tired," he said sheepishly, when he saw that she had shot a bird
and had cooked breakfast for them both while he had been buried in oblivion.

"Peculiar, too, isn't it?" Nadia asked, pointedly. "You only did about ten days' work yesterday
in ten minutes, swinging this frightful snickersnee of yours. Why, you played with it as though
it were a knitting-needle, and when I wanted to wake you up with it, I could hardly lift it."

"Thought you didn't want that subject even mentioned?" he tried to steer the talk away from
his prowess with the broadsword.

"That was yesterday," airily. "Besides, I don't mind talking about you--it's thinking about
us being ... you know ... that I can't stand."

"All x, ace. I get you right. Let's eat."

       *       *       *       *       *

Breakfast over, they started down the valley, Stevens carrying his helmet under his arm. Hardly
had they started however, than Nadia's keen eyes saw a movement through the trees, and, she
stopped and pointed. Stevens looked once, then hand in hand they dashed back to their cave.

"We'll pile up some of the boulders and you lie low," he instructed her as he screwed on his
helmet. She snapped open his face-plate.

"But what about you? Aren't you coming in, too?" she demanded.

"Can't--they'd surround us and starve us out. I'm safe in this armor--thank Heaven we made
it as solid as we did--and I'll fight 'em in the open. I'll show 'em what the bear did to the
buckwheat!"

"All right, I guess, but I wish I had my armor, too," she mourned as he snapped shut his plate
and walled her into the cave with the same great rocks he had used the night before. Then,
Nadia safe from attack, he drew his quiver of war-arrows into position over his shoulder, placed
one at the ready on his bow-string and turned to face the horde of things rushing up the valley
toward him. Wild animals he had supposed them, but as he stood firm and raised his weapon shrill
whistles sounded in the throng, and he gasped as he realized that those frightful creatures
must be intelligent beings, for not only did they signal to each other, but he saw that they
were armed with bows and arrows, spears, and slings!

Six-limbed creatures they were, of a purplish-red color, with huge, tricornigerous heads and
with staring, green, phosphorescent eyes. Two of the six limbs were always legs, two always
arms; the intermediate two, due to a mid-section jointing of the six-foot-long, almost cylindrical
body, could be used at will as either legs or arms. Now, out of range, as they supposed, they
halted and gathered about one who was apparently their leader; some standing erect and waving
four hands while shaking their horns savagely in Stevens' direction, others trotting around
on four legs, busily gathering stones of suitable size for their vicious slings.

Too far away to use their own weapons and facing only one small four-limbed creature, they
considered their game already in the bag, but they had no comprehension of earthly muscles,
nor any understanding of the power and range of a hundred-pound bow driving a steel-headed
war arrow. Thus, while they were arguing, Stevens took the offensive, and a cruelly barbed
steel war-head tore completely through the body of their leader and mortally wounded the creature
next beyond him. Though surprised, they were not to be frightened off, but with wild, shrill
screams rushed to the attack. Stevens had no ammunition to waste, and every time that mighty
bow twanged a yard-long arrow transfixed at least one of the red horde--and a body through
which had torn one of those ghastly, hand-forged arrow-heads was of very little use thereafter.
Accurately-sped arrows splintered harmlessly against the re-enforced windows of his helmet
and against the steel guards protecting his hands. He was almost deafened by the din as the
stone missiles of the slingers rebounded from his reverberating shell of steel, but he fired
carefully, steadily, and powerfully until his last arrow had been loosed. Then, the wicked
dirk in his left hand and the long and heavy saber weaving a circular path of brilliance in
the sun, he stepped forward a couple of paces to meet the attackers. For a few moments nothing
could stand before that fiercely driven blade--severed heads, limbs, and fragments of torsos
literally filled the air, but sheer weight of numbers bore him down. As he fell, he saw the
white shaft of one of Nadia's hunting-arrows flash past his helmet and bury itself to the flock
in the body of one of the horde above him. Nadia knew that her arrows could not harm her lover,
and through a chink between two boulders she was shooting into the thickest of the mob speeding
her light arrows with the full power of her bow.

Though down, the savages soon discovered that Stevens was not out. In such close quarters he
could not use his sword, but the fourteen-inch blade of the dirk, needle-pointed as it was
and with two razor-sharp, serrated cutting edges, was itself no mean weapon, and time after
time he drove it deep, taking life at every thrust. Four more red monsters threw themselves
upon the prostrate man, but not sufficiently versed in armor to seek out its joints, their
fierce short spear thrusts did no damage. Presently four more corpses lay still and Stevens,
with his, to them incredible, earthly strength, was once more upon his feet in spite of their
utmost efforts to pinion his mighty limbs, and was again swinging his devastating weapon. Half
their force lying upon the field, wiped out by a small, but invincible and apparently invulnerable
being, the remainder broke and ran, pursued by Stevens to the point where the red monsters
had first halted. He recovered his arrows and returned to the cave, opening his face-plate
as he came.

"All x, sweetheart?" he asked, rolling away the boulders. "Didn't get anything through to you,
did they?"

"No, they didn't even realize that I was taking part in the battle, I guess. Did they hurt
you while they had you down? I was scared to death for a minute."

"No, the old armor held. One of them must have gnawed on my ankle some, between the greave
and the heel-plate, but he couldn't quite get through. 'Sa darn small opening there, too--must
have bent my foot 'way around to get in at all. Have to tighten that joint up a little, I guess.
I'll bet I've got a black spot and blue spot there the size of my hand--maybe it's only the
size of yours, though."

"You won't die of that, probably. Heavens, Steve, that cleaver of yours is a frightful thing
in action! Suppose it's safe for us to go home?"

"Absolutely--right now is the best chance we'll ever have, and something tells me that we'd
better make it snappy. They'll be back, and next time they won't be so easy to take."

"All x, then--hold me, Steve, I can't stand the sight of that---let alone wade through it.
I'm going to faint or something, sure."

"As you were!" he snapped. "You aren't going to pass out now that it's all over! It's a pretty
ghastly mess, I know, but shut your eyes and I'll carry you out of sight."

"Aren't we out of sight of that place yet?" she demanded after a time.

"I have been for quite a while," he confessed, "but you're sitting pretty, aren't you? And
you aren't very heavy--not here on Ganymede, anyway!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Put me down!" she commanded. "After that crack I won't play with you any more at all--I'll
pick up my marbles and go home!"

He released her and they hurried hack toward their waterfall, keeping wary eyes sharp-set for
danger in any form, animal or vegetable. On the way back across the foothills Stevens shot
another hexaped, and upon the plateau above the river Nadia bagged several birds and small
animals, but it was not until they were actually in their own little canyon that their rapid
pace slackened and their vigilance relaxed.

"After this, ace, we hunt together and we go back to wearing armor while we're hunting. It
scared me out of a year's growth when you checked up missing."

"We sure do, Steve," she concurred emphatically. "I'm not going to get more than a meter away
from you from now on. What do you suppose those horrible things are?"

"Which?"

"Both."

"Those flowers aren't like anything Tellus ever saw, so we have no basis of comparison. They
may be a development of a flycatching plant, or they may be a link between the animal and the
vegetable kingdom. However, we don't intend to study 'em, so let's forget 'em. Those animals
were undoubtedly intelligent beings; they probably are a race of savages of this satellite."

"Then the really civilized races are probably...."

"Not necessarily--there may well be different types, each struggling toward civilization. They
certainly are on Venus, and they once were on Mars."

"Why haven't we seen anything like that before, in all these months? Things have been so calm
and peaceful that we thought we had the whole world to ourselves, as far as danger or men were
concerned."

"We never saw them before because we never went where they lived--you were a long ways from
your usual stamping-grounds, you know. That animal-vegetable flower is probably a high-altitude
organism, living in the mountains and never coming as low as we are down here. As for the savages--whatever
they are--they probably never come within five kilometers of the falls. Many primitive peoples
think that waterfalls are inhabited by demons, and maybe these folks are afflicted the same way."

"We don't know much about our new world yet, do we?"

"We sure don't--and I'm not particularly keen on finding out much more about it until we get
organized for trouble, either. Well, here we are--just like getting back home to see the 'Hope,'
isn't it?"

"It is home, and will be until we get one of our own on earth," and after Stevens had read
his meters, learning with satisfaction that the full current was still flowing into the accumulators,
he began to cut up the meat.

"Now that you've got the power-plant running at last, what next?" asked Nadia, piling the cuts
in the freezer.

"Brandon's ultra-radio comes next, but it's got more angles to it than a cubist's picture of
a set of prisms; so many that I don't know where to begin. There, that job's done--let's sit
down and I'll talk at you awhile. Maybe between us we can figure out where to start. I've got
everything to build it lined up except for the tube, but that's got me stopped cold. You see,
fields of force are all right in most places, but I've got to have one tube, and it's got to
have the hardest possible vacuum. That means a mercury-vapor super pump. Mercury is absolutely
the only thing that will do the trick and the mercury is one thing that is conspicuous by it's
absence in these parts. So are tungsten for filaments, tantalum for plates, and platinum for
leads; and I haven't found anything that I can use as a getter, either--a metal, you know,
to flash inside the tube to clean up the last traces of atmosphere in it."

"I didn't suppose that such a simple thing as a radio tube could hold you up, after the perfectly
unbelievable things that you have done already--but I see now how it could. Of course, the
tubes in our receiver over there are too small?"

"Yes, they are only receiver and communicator tubes, and I need a high-power transmitting tube--a
fifty-kilowatter, at least. I'd give my left leg to the knee joint for one of those big water-cooled,
sixty-kilowatt ten-nineteens right now--it would save us a lot of grief."

"Maybe you could break up those tubes and use the plates and so on?"

"I thought of that, but it won't work--there isn't half enough metal in the lot, and the filaments
in particular are so tiny that I couldn't possibly work them over into a big one. Then, too,
we haven't got many spare tubes, and if I smash the ones we're using, I put our communicators
out of business for good, so that we can't yell for help if we have to drift home--and I still
don't get any mercury."

"Do you mean to tell me there's no mercury on this whole planet?"

"Not exactly; but I do mean that I haven't been able to find any, and that it's probably darned
scarce. And since all the other metals I want worst are also very dense and of high atomic
weight, they're probably mighty scarce here, too. Why? Because we're on a satellite, and no
matter what hypothesis you accept for the origin of satellites, you come to the same conclusion--that
heavy metals are either absent or most awfully scarce and buried deep down toward the center.
There are lots of heavy metals in Jupiter somewhere, but we probably couldn't find them. Jupiter's
atmosphere is one mass of fog, and we couldn't see, since we haven't got an infra-red transformer.
I could build one, in time, but it would take quite a while--and we couldn't work on Jupiter,
anyway, because of its gravity and probably because of its atmosphere. And even if we could
work there, we don't want to spend the rest of our lives prospecting for mercury." Stevens
fell silent, brow wrinkled in thought.

"You mean, dear, that we're..." Nadia broke off, the sentence unfinished.

"Gosh, no! There's lots of things not tried yet, and we can always set out to drift it. I was
thinking only of building the tube. And I'm trying to think ... say, Nadia, what do you know
about Cantrell's Comet?"

"Not a thing, except that I remember reading in the newspapers that it was peculiar for something
or other. But what has Cantrell's Comet got to do with the high cost of living--or with radio
tubes? Have you gone cuckoo all of a sudden?"

"You'll be surprised!" Stevens grinned at her puzzled expression. "Cantrell's Comet is one
of Jupiter's comet family and is peculiar in being the most massive one known to science. It
was hardly known until after they built those thousand-foot reflectors on the Moon, where the
seeing is always perfect, but it has been studied a lot since then. Its nucleus is small, but
extremely heavy--it seems to have an average density of somewhere around sixteen. There's platinum
and everything else that's heavy there, girl! They ought to be there in such quantity that
even such a volunteer chemist as I am could find them!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Heavens, Steve!" A look of alarm flashed over Nadia's face, then disappeared as rapidly as
it had come into being. "But of course, comets aren't really dangerous."

"Sure not. A comet's tail, which so many people are afraid of as being poison gas, is almost
a perfect vacuum, even at its thickest, and we'd have to wear space-suits anyway. And speaking
of vacuum ... whoopee! We don't need mercury any more than a goldfish needs a gas-mask. When
we get Mr. Tube done, we'll take him out into space, leaving his mouth open, and very shortly
he'll be as empty as a flapper's skull. Then we'll seal him up, flash him out, come back here,
and start spilling our troubles into Brandon's shell-like ear!"

"Wonderful, Steve! You do get an idea occasionally, don't you? But how do we get out there?
Where is this Cantrell's Comet?"

"I don't know, exactly--there's one rub. Another is that I haven't even started the transmitter
and receptor units. But we've got some field-generators here on board that I can use, so it
won't be so bad. And our comet is in this part of the solar system somewhere fairly close.
Wish we had an Ephemeris, a couple of I-P solar charts, and a real telescope."

"You can't do much without an Ephemeris, I should think. It's a good thing you kept the chronometers
going. You know the I-P time, day, and dates, anyway."

"I'll have to do without some things, that's all," and the man stared absently at the steel
wall. "I remember something about its orbit, since it is one thing that all I-P vessels have
to steer clear of. Think I can figure it close enough so that we'll be able to find it in our
little telescope, or even on our plate, since we'll be out of this atmosphere. And it might
not be a bad idea for us to get away, anyway. I'm afraid of those folks on that space-ship,
whoever they were, and they must live around here somewhere. Cantrell's Comet swings about
fifty million kilometers outside Jupiter's orbit at aphelion--close enough for us to reach,
and yet probably too far for them to find us easily. By the time we get back here, they probably
will have quit looking for us, if they look at all. Then too, I expect these savages to follow
us up. What say, little ace--do we try it or do we stay here?"

"You know best, Steve. As I said before, I'm with you from now on, in whatever you think best
to do. I know that you think it best to go out there. Therefore, so do I."

"Well," he said, finally, "I'd better get busy, then--there's a lot to do before we can start.
The radio doesn't come next, after all--the transmitter and receptor units come ahead of it.
They won't mean wasted labor, in any event, since we'll have to have them in case the radio
fails. You'd better lay in a lot of supplies while I'm working on that stuff, but don't go
out of sight, and yell like fury if you see anything. We'd both better wear full armor every
time we go out-of-doors--unless I'm all out of control we aren't done with those savages yet.
Even though they may be afraid of the demons of the falls, I think they'll have at least one
more try at us."

While Nadia brought in meat and vegetables and stored them away, Stevens attacked the problem
of constructing the pair of tight-beam, auto-dirigible transmitter and receptor units which
would connect his great turbo-alternator to the accumulators of their craft, wherever it might
be in space. From the force-field generators of the "Forlorn Hope" he selected the two most
suitable for his purpose, tuned them to the exact frequency he required, and around them built
a complex system of condensers and coils.

Day after day passed. Their larder was full, the receptor was finished, and the beam transmitter
was almost ready to attach to the turbo-alternator before the calm was broken.

"Steve!" Nadia shrieked. Glancing idly into the communicator plate, she had been perfunctorily
surveying the surrounding territory. "They're coming! Thousands of them! They're all over the
bench up there, and just simply pouring down the hills and up the valley!"

"Wish they'd waited a few hours longer--we'd have been gone. However, we're just about ready
for them," he commented grimly, as he stared over her shoulder into the communicator plate.
"We'll make a lot of those Indians wish that they had stayed at home with their papooses."

"Have you got all those rays and things fixed up?"

"Not as many as I'd like to have. You see, I don't know the composition of the I-P ray, since
it is outlawed to everybody except the police. Of course I could have found out from Brandon,
but never paid any attention to it. I've got some nice ultra-violet, though, and a short-wave
oscillatory that'll cook an elephant to a cinder in about eight seconds. We'll keep them amused,
no fooling! Glad we had time to cover our open sides, and it looks as though that meteorite
armor we put over the projectors may be mighty useful, too."

On and on the savages came, massed in formations showing some signs of rude discipline. This
time there was neither shrieking nor yelling; the weird creatures advanced silently and methodically.
Here and there were massed groups of hundreds, dragging behind them engines which Stevens studied
with interest.

"Hm ... m ... m. Catapults," he mused. "You were right, girl of my dreams--armor and bows and
arrows wouldn't help us much right now. They're going to throw rocks at us that'll have both
mass and momentum. With those things they can cave in our side-armor, and might even dent our
roof. When one of those projectiles hits, we want to know where it ain't, that's all."

Stevens cast off the heavily-insulated plug connecting the power plant leads to his now almost
fully charged accumulators, strapped himself and Nadia into place at the controls, and waited,
staring into the plate. Catapult after catapult was dragged to the lip of the little canyon,
until six of them bore upon the target. The huge stranded springs of hair, fiber, and sinew
were wound up to the limit, and enormous masses of rock were toilsomely rolled upon the platforms.
Each "gunner" seized his trip, and as the leader shrieked his signal the six ponderous masses
of metalliferous rock heaved into the air as one. But they did not strike their objective,
for as the signal was given, Stevens shot power into his projectors. The "Forlorn Hope" leaped
out of the canyon and high into the air over the open meadow, just as the six great projectiles
crashed into the ground upon the spot which, an instant before, she had occupied.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rudimentary discipline forgotten, the horde rushed down into the canyon and the valley, in
full clamor of their barbaric urgings. Horns and arms tossed fiercely, savage noises rent the
air, and arrows splintered harmlessly upon steel plate an the mystified and maddened warriors
upon the plain below gave vent to their outraged feelings.

"Look, Nadia! A whole gang of them are smelling around that power plug. Pretty soon somebody's
going to touch a hot spot, and when he does, we'll cut loose on the rest of them."

The huge insulating plug, housing the ends of the three great cables leading to the converters
of the turbo-alternator, lay innocently upon the ground, its three yawning holes invitingly
open to savage arms. The chief, who had been inspecting the power-plant, walked along the triplex
lead and joined his followers at its terminus. Pointing with his horns, he jabbered orders
and three red monsters, one at each cable, bent to lift the plug, while the leader himself
thrust an arm into each of the three contact holes. There was a flash of searing flame and
the reeking smoke of burning flesh--those three arms had taken the terrific no-load voltage
of the three-phase converter system, and the full power of the alternator had been shorted
directly to ground through the comparatively small resistance of his body.

Stevens had poised the "Forlorn Hope" edgewise in mid-air, so that the gleaming, heavily armored
parabolic reflectors of his projectors, mounted upon the leading edge of the fortress, covered
the scene below. As the charred corpse of the savage chieftain dropped to the ground, it seemed
to the six-limbed creatures that the demons of the falls had indeed been annoyed beyond endurance
by their intrusion; for, as if in response to the flash of fire from the power plug, that structure
so peculiarly and so stolidly hanging in the air came plunging down toward them. From it there
reached down twin fans of death and destruction: one flaming and almost invisibly incandescent
violet which tore at the eyes and excruciatingly disintegrated brain and nervous tissues; the
other dully glowing an equally invisible red, at the touch of which body temperature soared
to lethal heights and foliage burst cracklingly into spontaneous flame.

In their massed hundreds, the savages dropped where they stood, life rived away by the torturing
ultra-violet, burned away by the blast of pure heat, or consumed by the conflagrations that
raged instantly wherever that wide-sweeping fan encountered combustible material. In the face
of power supernatural they lost all thought of attack or of conquest, and sought only and madly
to escape. Weapons were thrown away, the catapults were abandoned, and, every man for himself,
the mob fled in wildest disorder, each striving to put as much distance as possible between
himself and that place of dread mystery, the waterfall.

"Well, I guess that'll hold 'em for a while," Stevens dropped their craft back into its original
quarters in the canyon. "Whether they ever believed before that this falls was inhabited by
devils or not, they think so now. I'll bet that it will be six hundred Jovian years before
any of them ever come within a hundred kilometers of it again. I'm glad of it, too, because
they'll let our power plant alone now. Well, let's get going--we've got to make things hum
for a while!"

"Why all the rush? You just said that we have scared them away for good."

"The savages, yes, but not those others. We've just turned loose enough radiation to affect
detectors all over the system, and it's up to us to get this beam projector set up, get away
from here, and get our power shut off before they can trace us. Snap it up, ace!"

The transmitter unit was installed at the converters, the cable was torn out, and, having broken
the last material link between it and Ganymede, Stevens hurled the "Forlorn Hope" out into
space, using the highest acceleration Nadia could endure. Hour after hour the massive wedge
of steel bored outward, away from Jupiter; hour after hour Stevens' anxious eyes scanned his
instruments; hour after hour hope mounted and relief took the place of anxiety as the screens
remained blank throughout every inquiring thrust into the empty ether. But they knew they would
have to keep sharp vigilance.

PART II

Spacehounds of IPC

    One of the most fascinating mysteries of the heavens is the comet.
    It goes through space, gets near enough to the earth to be seen,
    and then goes off and disappears in celestial distance. Often it
    has a hyperbolic orbit, which would make it impossible to come back.
    Yet it may return--apparently contradicting the geometry of conic
    sections. This only goes to prove once more that it is risky to say
    anything is impossible--even that our hero of this story manages
    beautifully, with the aid of Cantrell's Comet, to avoid complete
    annihilation while stranded in interstellar space.

    Read "what went before" and then continue the second instalment.

What Went Before:

    The Interplanetary Vessel Arcturus sets out for Mars, with
    Breckenridge as chief pilot, carrying on board, besides its
    regular crew and some passengers, the famous Dr. Stevens,
    designer of space ships and computer. He checks computations
    made by astronomers stationed in floating observatories, and
    after he has located any trouble and suggests a plan for
    minimizing the hazards of the trip from the earth to Mars,
    he reports his findings and suggestions to Mr. Newton, chief
    of the Interplanetary Corporation.

    Stevens then takes Nadia, Mr. Newton's beautiful young daughter,
    on a specially conducted sight-seeing tour of the Arcturus and
    thoroughly explains to her all of the works of the vessel. Nadia
    has herself had a good science education. While they are down at
    the bottom of the ship--nearing the end of their tour--Stevens
    feels a barely perceptible movement of the vessel from its course.
    When he turns on the visiplate, he is horrified to find that a
    mysterious ray of unparalleled power has neatly sliced the Arcturus
    in several places.

    Nadia and Stevens are completely separated from the rest of the
    crew and passengers of the ship, so they get into a lifeboat,
    which is equipped for a limited amount of space travel. Despite
    the strict and apparently effective vigilance of the enemy
    destroyer, Stevens and Nadia make their getaway in the lifeboat,
    which they aptly call "Forlorn Hope," and finally make a safe
    landing on Ganymede, where Stevens plans to build a power-plant
    and a radio transmitter, to enable him to communicate with the
    earth or with the IPV Sirius, which is used by Westfall and Brandon
    (two of the world's best scientists) as a floating laboratory.

    With the very scant apparatus and material available, Stevens
    sets to work on his power plant. Just as they have it completed
    and ready to start for Cantrell's Comet, where Stevens believes
    he can obtain the necessary metal for his giant transmitting
    tube, they experience a close call with carnivorous plants on the
    satellite and later with savage inhabitants, which precipitates
    their trip to the comet.

CHAPTER V

Cantrell's Comet

Far out in space, Jupiter, a tiny moon and its satellites mere pin-points of light, Stevens
turned to his companion with a grin.

"Well, Nadia, old golf-shootist, here's where we turn spacehounds again. Hope you like it better
this time, because I'm afraid that we'll have to stay weightless for quite a while." He slowly
throttled down the mighty flow of power, and watched the conflicting emotions play over Nadia's
face in her purely personal battle against the sickening sensations caused by the decrease
in their acceleration.

"I'm sorry as the dickens, sweetheart," he went on, tenderly, and the grin disappeared. "Wish
I could take it for you, but...."

"But there are times when we've got to fight our own battles and bury our own dead," she interrupted,
gamely. "Cut off the rest of that power! I'm not going to be sick--I won't be a--what do you
spacehounds call us poor earth-bound dubs who can't stand weightlessness--weight-fiends, isn't it?"

"Yes; but you aren't...."

"I know I'm not, and I'm not going to be one, either! I'm all x, Steve--it's not so bad now,
really. I held myself together that time, anyway, and I feel lots better now. Have you found
Cantrell's Comet yet? And why so sure all of a sudden that they can't find us? That power beam
still connects us to Ganymede, doesn't it? Maybe they can trace it."

"At-a-girl, ace!" he cheered. "I'll tell the world you're no weight-fiend--you're a spacehound
right. Most first-trippers, at this stage of the game, wouldn't be caring a whoop whether school
kept or not, and here you're taking an interest in all kinds of things already. You'll do,
girl of my heart--no fooling!"

"Maybe, and maybe you're trying to kid somebody," she returned, eyeing him intently. "Or maybe
you just don't want to answer those questions I asked you a minute ago."

"No, that's straight data, right on zero across the panel," he assured her. "And as for your
questions, they're easy. No, I haven't looked for the comet yet, because we'll have to drift
for a couple of days before we'll be anywhere near where I think it is. No, they can't trace
us, because there is now nothing to trace, unless they can detect the slight power we are using
in our lights and so on--which possibility is vanishingly small. Potentially, our beam still
exists, but since we are drawing no power, it has no actual present existence. See?"

"Uh-uh," she dissented. "I can't say that I can quite understand how a beam can exist potentially
and yet not be there actually enough to trace. Why, a thing has to be actual or not exist at
all--you can't possibly have something that is nothing. It doesn't make sense. But lay off
those integrations of yours, please," as now armed with a slate-pencil, Stevens began to draw
a diagram upon a four-foot sheet of smooth slate. "You know that your brand of math is over
my head like a circus tent, so we'll let it lie. I'll take your word for it. Steve--if you're
satisfied, it's all x with me."

"I think I can straighten you out a little, by analogy. Here's a rough sketch of a cylinder,
with shade and shadow. You've had descriptive geometry, of course, and so know that a shadow,
being simply a projection of a material object upon a plane, is a two-dimensional thing--or
rather, a two-dimensional concept. Now take the shade, which is, of course, this entire figure
here, between the cylinder casting the shadow and the plane of projection. You simply imagine
that there is a point source of light at your point of projection: it isn't really there. The
shade, then, of which I am drawing a picture, has only a potential existence. You know exactly
where it is, you can draw it, you can define it, compute it, and work with it--but still it
doesn't exist; there is absolutely nothing to differentiate it from any other volume of air,
and it cannot be detected by any physical or mechanical means. If, however, you place a light
at the point of projection, the shade becomes actual and can be detected optically. By a sufficient
stretch of the imagination, you might compare our beam to that shade. When we turn our power
on, the beam is actual; it is a stream of tangible force, and as such can be detected electrically.
When our switches here are open, however, it exists only potentially. There is no motion in
the ether, nothing whatever to indicate that a beam had ever actually existed there. With me?"

"Floundering pretty badly, but I see it after a fashion. You physicists are peculiar freaks--where
we ordinary mortals see actual, solid, heavy objects, you see only empty space with a few electrons
and things floating around in it; and yet where we see only empty space, you can see things
'potentially' that may never exist at all. You'll be the death of me yet, Steve! But I'm wasting
a lot of time. What do we do now?"

"We get busy on the big tube. You might warm up the annealing oven and melt me that pot of
glass, while I get busy on the filament supports, plate brackets, and so on." Both fell to
work with a will, and hours passed rapidly and almost silently, so intent was each upon his
own tasks.

"All x, Steve." Nadia broke the long silence. "The pyrometer's on the red, and the oven's hot,"
and the man left his bench. Taking up a long paddle and an even longer blowpipe, he skimmed
the melt to a dazzlingly bright surface and deftly formed a bubble.

"I just love to talk at you when you've got your mouth full of a blowpipe." Nadia eyed him
impishly and tucked her feet beneath her, poised weightless as she was. "I've got you foul
now--I can say anything I want to, and you can't talk back, because your bubble will lose its
shape if you do. Oh, isn't that a beauty! I never saw you blow anything that big before," and
she fell silent, watching intently.

Slowly there was being drawn from the pot a huge, tapering bulb of hot, glistening glass, its
cross-section at the molten surface varying as Stevens changed the rate of draw or the volume
of air blown through the pipe. Soon that section narrowed sharply. The glass-blower waved his
hand and Nadia severed the form neatly with a glowing wire, just above the fluid surface of
the glass remaining in the pot. Pendant from the blowpipe, the bulb was placed over the hot-bench,
where Stevens, now begoggled, begloved, and armed with a welding torch, proceeded to fuse into
the still, almost plastic, glass sundry necks, side-tubes, supports and other attachments of
peculiar pattern. Finally the partially assembled tube was placed in the annealing oven, where
it would remain at a high and constant temperature until its filaments, grids, and plates had
been installed. Eventually, in that same oven, it would be allowed to cool slowly and uniformly
over a period of days.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus were performed many other tasks which are ordinarily done either by automatic machinery
or by highly skilled specialists in labor--for these two, thrown upon their own resources,
had long since learned how much specialization may be represented by the most commonplace article.
Whenever they needed a thing they did not have--which happened every day--they had either to
make it or else, failing in that, to go back and build something that would enable them to
manufacture the required item. Such setbacks had become so numerous as to be expected as part
of the day's work; they no longer caused exasperation or annoyance. For two days the two jacks-of-all-trades
worked at many lines and with many materials before Stevens called a halt.

"All x, Nadia. It's time for us to stop tinkering and turn into astronomers. We've been out
for fifty I-P hours, and we'd better begin looking around for our heap of scrap metal," and,
the girl at the communicator plate and Stevens at their one small telescope, they began to
search the black, star-jeweled heavens for Cantrell's Comet.

"According to my figures, it ought to be about four hours right ascension, and something like
plus twenty degrees declination. My figures aren't accurate, though, since I'm working purely
from memory, so we'd better cover everything from Aldebaran to the Pleiades."

"But the directions will change as we go along, won't they?"

"Not unless we pass it, because we're heading pretty nearly straight at it, I think."

"I don't see anything interesting thereabouts except stars. Will it have much tail?"

"Very little--it's close to aphelion, you know, and a comet doesn't have much of a tail so
far away from the sun. Hope it's got some of its tail left, though, or we may miss it entirely."

Hours passed, during which the two observers peered intently into their instruments, then Stevens
left the telescope and went over to his slate.

"Looks bad, ace--we should have spotted it before this. Time to eat, too. You'd better...."

"Oh, look here, quick!" Nadia interrupted. "Here's something! Yes, it is a comet, and quite
close--it's got a little bit of a dim tail."

Stevens leaped to the communicator plate, and, blond head pressed close to brown, the two wayfarers
studied the faint image of the wanderer of the void.

"That's it, I just know it is!" Nadia declared. "Steve, as a computer, you're a blinding flash
and a deafening report!"

"Yeah--missed it only about half a million kilometers or so," he replied, grinning, "and I'd
fire a whole flock of I-P check stations for being four thousand off. However, I could have
done worse--I could easily have forgotten all the data on it, instead of only half of it."
He applied a normal negative acceleration, and Nadia heaved a profound sigh of relief as her
weight returned to her and her body again became manageable by the ordinary automatic and involuntary
muscles.

"Guess I am a kind of a weight-fiend at that, Steve--this is much better!" she exclaimed.

"Nobody denies that weight is more convenient at times; but you're a spacehound just the same--you'll
like it after a while," he prophesied.

Stevens took careful observations upon the celestial body, altered his course sharply, then,
after a measured time interval, again made careful readings.

"That's it, all x," he announced, after completing his calculations, and he reduced their negative
acceleration by a third. "There--we'll be just about traveling with it when we get there,"
he said. "Now, little K. P. of my bosom, our supper's been on minus time for hours. What say
we shake it up?"

"I check you to nineteen decimals," and the two were soon attacking the savory Ganymedean goulash
which Nadia had put in the cooker many hours before.

"Should we both go to sleep, Steve, or should one of us watch it?"

"Sleep, by all means. There's no meteoric stuff out here, and we won't arrive before ten o'clock
tomorrow, I-P time," and, tired out by the events of the long day, man and maid sought their
beds and plunged into dreamless slumber.

While they slept, the "Forlorn Hope" drove on through the void at a terrific but constantly
decreasing velocity; and far off to one side, plunging along a line making a sharp angle with
their own course, there loomed larger and larger the masses which made up the nucleus of Cantrell's
Comet.

Upon awakening, Stevens' first thought was for the comet, and he observed it carefully before
he aroused Nadia, who hurried into the control room. Looming large in the shortened range of
the plate, their objective hurtled onward in its eternal course, its enormous velocity betrayed
only by the rapidity with which it sped past the incredibly brilliant background of infinitely
distant stars. Apparently it was a wild jumble of separate fragments; a conglomerate, heterogeneous
aggregation of rough and jagged masses varying in size from grains of sand up to enormous chunks,
which upon Earth would have weighed millions of tons. Pervading the whole nucleus, a slow,
indefinite movement was perceptible--a vague writhing and creeping of individual components
working and slipping past and around each other as they all rushed forward in obedience to
the immutable cosmic law of gravitation.

"Oh, isn't that wonderful!" Nadia breathed. "Think of actually going to visit a comet! It sort
of scares me, Steve--it's so creepy and crawly looking. We're awfully close, aren't we?"

"Not so very. We'd probably have lots of time to eat breakfast. But just to be on the safe
side, maybe I'd better camp here at the board, and you bring me over something to eat."

"All x, Chief!" and Stevens ate, one eye upon the screen, watching closely the ever-increasing
bulk of the comet.

       *       *       *       *       *

For many minutes he swung the Forlorn Hope in a wide curve approaching the mountain of metal
ever and ever more nearly, then turned to the girl.

"Hold everything, Nadia--power's going off in a minute!" He shut off the beam; then, noting
that they were traveling a trifle faster than the comet, he applied a small voltage to one
dirigible projector. Darting the beam here and there, he so corrected their flight that they
were precisely stationary in relation to the comet. He then opened his switches, and the Forlorn
Hope hurtled on. Apparently motionless, it was now a part of Cantrell's Comet, traveling in
a stupendous, elongated ellipse about the Master of our Solar System, the Sun.

"There, ace, who said anything about weight-fiends? I was watching you, and you never turned
a hair that time."

"Why, that's right--I never even thought about it--I was so busy studying that thing out there!
I suppose I've got used to it already?"

"Sure--you're one of us now. I knew you would be. Well, let's go places and do things! You'd
better put on a suit, too, so you can stand in the air-lock and handle the line."

They donned the heavily insulated, heated suits, and Stevens snapped the locking plugs of the
drag line into their sockets upon the helmets.

"Hear me?" he asked. "Sound-disks all x?"

"All x."

"On the radio--all x?"

"All x."

"I tested your tanks and heaters--they're all x. But you'll have to test...."

"I know the ritual by heart, Steve. It's been in every show in the country for the last year,
but I didn't know you had to go through it every time you went out-of-doors! Halves, number
one all x, two all x, three all x...."

"Quit it!" he snapped. "You aren't testing those valves! That check-up is no joke, guy. These
suits are complicated affairs, and some parts are apt to get out of order. You see, a thing
to give you fresh air at normal pressure and to keep you warm in absolute space can't be either
simple or fool-proof. They've worked on them for years, but they're pretty crude yet. They're
tricky, and if one goes sour on you, out in space, it's just too bad--you're lucky to get back
alive. A lot of men are still out there somewhere because of the sloppy check-ups."

"'Scuse it, please--I'll be good," and the careful checking and testing of every vital part
of the space-suits went on.

Satisfied at last that the armor was spaceworthy, Stevens picked up the coils of drag-line,
built of a non-metallic fiber which could retain its flexibility and strength in the bitter
cold of outer space, and led the girl into the air-lock.

"Heavens, Steve! It's perfectly stupendous, and grinding around worse than the wreckage of
the Arcturus was when I wouldn't let you climb up it--why, I thought comets were little, and
hardly massive at all!" exclaimed the girl.

"This is little, compared to any regular planet or satellite or even to the asteroids. There's
only a few cubic kilometers of matter there, and, as I said before, it's a decidedly unusual
comet. You know the game?"

"I've got it--and believe me, I'll yank you back here a lot faster than you can jump over there
if any one of those lumps starts to fall on you! Is this drag line long enough?"

"Yes, I've got a hundred meters here, and it's only fifty meters over there to where I'm going.
So long," and with a light thrust of his feet, he dove head foremost across the intervening
space, a heavy pike held out ahead of him. Straight as a bullet he floated toward his objective,
a jagged chunk many yards in diameter, taking the shock of his landing by sliding along the
pike-handle as its head struck the mass.

Then, bracing his feet against one lump, he pushed against its neighbor, and under that steady
pressure the enormous masses moved apart and kept on moving, grinding among their fellows.
Over and around them Stevens sprang, always watching his line of retreat as well as that of
his advance, until his exploring pike struck a lump of apparently solid metal. Hooking the
fragment toward him, he thrust savagely with his weapon and was reassured--that object was
not only metal, but it was metal so hard that his pike-head of space-tempered alloy steel did
not make an impression upon its surface. Turning on his helmet light he swung his heavy hammer
repeatedly but could not break off even a small fragment.

"Found something, Steve?" Nadia's voice came clearly in his ears.

"I'll say I have! A hunk of solid, non-magnetic metal about the size of an office desk. I can't
break off any of it, so I guess we'll have to grab the whole chunk."

He hitched the end of his cable around the nugget, made sure that the loops would not slip,
and then, as Nadia tightened the line, he shoved mightily.

"All x, Nadia, she's coming! Pull in my drag line as I said over there, and I'll help you land
her."

Inside the Forlorn Hope the mass of metal was urged into the shop, where Stevens clamped it
immovably to the steel floor, before he took off his space-suit.

"Why, it's getting covered with snow, and the whole room is getting positively cold!" Nadia
exclaimed.

"Sure. Anything that comes in from space is cold, even if it's been out only a few minutes,
and that hunk of stuff has been out for nobody knows how many million years. It didn't get
much heat from the sun except at perihelion, you know, so it's probably somewhere around minus
two hundred and sixty degrees now. I'll have to throw a heater on it for half an hour before
we can touch it. And since this is more or less new stuff to you, I'll caution you--don't try
to touch anything that has just come in. That hammer or pike would freeze your hand instantly,
even though they've been out only a little while. Before you touch anything, blow on it, like
this, see? If your breath freezes solid on it, like that, don't touch it--it's cold."

       *       *       *       *       *

Under the infra-beams of the heater, the mass of the metal was brought to room temperature
and Stevens attacked it with his machine tools. Bit by bit the stubborn material was torn from
the lump. Through heavy goggles he watched the incandescent mass in a refractory crucible,
in the heart of the induction furnace.

"What do you think you've got--what you want?"

"I don't know. It wasn't iron--it wouldn't hold a magnet. It's royal metal of some kind, I
think. Base metals mostly melt at around fifteen hundred, and that crucible is still dry as
a bone at better than seventeen."

"How are you going to separate out the tantalum and the others you want from the ones that
you don't want?"

"I'm afraid that I'm not going to, very well," replied Stevens, with a wry grimace. "What I
don't know about metallurgy would fill a library, and I'm probably the world's worst chemist.
However, by a series of successive liquations, I hope to separate out fractions that I can
use. Platinum melts somewhere around seventeen-fifty, tantalum about twenty-nine hundred, and
tungsten not until 'way up around thirty-three, or four hundred--and that, by the way, means
lots of grief. Of course, each fraction will probably be an alloy of one kind or another, but
I think maybe I'll be able to make them do."

"But mayn't that whole chunk be a pure metal?"

"It's conceivable, but not probable. There, she's beginning to separate at just below eighteen
hundred! Platinum group coming out now, I think--platinum, rhodium, iridium, and that gang,
you know. While I'm doing this, you might be getting those five coils into exact resonance,
if you want to."

"Sure I want to," and Nadia made her way across to the short-wave oscillator and set to work.

After an hour or so, bent over her delicate task, she began to twitch uneasily, then shrugged
her shoulders impatiently.

"What's the idea of staring at me so?" she broke out suddenly. "How do you expect me to tune
these things up if you...." She stopped abruptly, mouth open in amazement, as she turned toward
Stevens. He had not been looking at her, but he turned a surprised face from his own task at
the sound of her voice. "Excuse me, please, Steve. I don't know what's the matter with me--must
be getting jumpy, I guess."

"I wish that was all, but it isn't!" Face suddenly grim and hard, Stevens leaped to the communicator
plate and shot the beam out into space. "There's an answer, but that isn't it. You're a fine-tuned
instrument yourself, ace, and you've detected something.... I thought so! There's the answer--the
guy that was looking at you!"

Plainly there was revealed upon the plate a small, spherical space-ship, very like the one
that had attacked and destroyed the Arcturus. After Nadia had taken one glance at it, Stevens
shut off the power and leaped out into the shop. He closed all the bulkhead doors and air-break
openings, then closed and secured the massive insulating door of the lifeboat in which they
had made their headquarters. Then, after they had again put on the space-suits they had taken
off such a short time before, he extinguished all the lights and hooded the communicator screen
before he ventured again to glance out into the void.

"If I had a brain in my head, instead of the pint of bean soup I've got up there, we'd have
worn these when they cut up the Arcturus, and saved us a lot of mental wear and tear," he remarked.
"They were right there in the lockers all the time, and I knew it!"

"Well, we got away, anyway. You couldn't be expected to think of everything at once. We didn't
have much time, you know."

"No, but I should have thought of anything as obvious as that, anyway. Wonder how they found
us? Did they detect us, or did they come out to this comet after metal, same as we did, and
find us accidentally? However, it all works out the same--they're apparently out to get us.
I'm afraid this is going to be a whole lot like a rabbit fighting back at a man with a gun;
but we'll sure try to nibble us off a lunch while they're getting a square meal ... here they
come!"

The enemy sphere launched its flaming plane of force, and the Forlorn Hope shuddered in every
plate and member as its apex was severed cleanly under the impact. Instantly Stevens hurled
his only weapons. Flaming ultra-violet and dully glowing infra-red, the twin beams lashed out;
but their utmost force was of slight moment to the enormous power driving the enemy screens.
Two circular spots of cherry red in space were the only results of Stevens' attack, and the
next fierce cut sheared away the two projectors and, incidentally, a full half of the fifty-inch
armor of the leading edge.

"Then we're checking out now?" Nadia asked quietly, as the man's hands dropped from his useless
controls. "I'm sorrier than I can say, lover. But at least, I'm glad that I can go out with
you," and her glorious eyes were shining with unshed tears.

"Maybe, but snap out of it, girl--our hearts are still beating! We're not dead yet, and maybe
we won't be. Perhaps they want to capture us alive, as they did before; if so, we may be able
to hide out on them somewhere and pull off another escape. Things don't look very bright, I
know, but we're not checking out until our numbers are actually run up!"

He hooked a hand under her belt as the shocks came closer, and stood tense and ready. The lancing
plane cut through one end of their control room, and Stevens leaped with his companion toward
the new-made opening; while the air shrieked outward into space and their suits bulged suddenly
with the abrupt increase in pressure differential. While they were in midflight, the frightful
blade of destruction cleaved its way through the control board and through the spot upon which
they had been standing a moment before. As they passed the severed edge, en route into open
spare, Stevens seized a metal brace and clung there, every nerve taut.

"Something funny here, Nadia," he said after a little, in a low tone. "They should have made
one more cut, to make us absolutely blind and helpless. As it is, they've clipped off all our
projectors, so we can't move, but I think we've got the whole control compartment of number
two lifeboat untouched. If so, we can look around, anyway. Let's go!"

Floating without effort from fragment to fragment, they made their way toward the section of
their cruiser as yet undamaged. They found an airlock in working order, and were soon in the
second lifeboat, where Stevens hastily turned on a communicator and peered out into space.

"There they are! There's another stranger out there, too. They're fighting with her, now--that's
probably why they didn't polish us off." Steel-braced, clumsy helmets touching, the two Terrestrials
stared spell-bound into the plate; watching while the insensately vicious intelligences within
the sphere brought its every force to bear upon another and larger sphere which was now so
close as to be plainly visible. Like a gigantic drop of quicksilver this second globe appeared--its
smooth and highly-polished surface one enormous, perfect, spherical mirror. Watching tensely,
they saw flash out that frightful plane of seething energy, with the effects of which they
were all too familiar, and saw it strike full upon the dazzling ball.

"This is awful, ace!" Stevens groaned. "They haven't got ray-screens, either, and without them
they don't stand a chance. No possible substance can stand up under that beam. When they get
done and turn back to us, we'll have to dive back to where we were."

       *       *       *       *       *

But that brilliant mirror was not as vulnerable as Stevens had supposed. The plane of force
struck and clung, but could not penetrate it. Broken up into myriads of scintillating crystals
of light, intersecting, multi-colored rays, and cascading flares of sparkling energy, the beam
was reflected, thrown back, hurled away on all sides into space in coruscating, blinding torrents.
And neither was the monster globe inoffensive. The straining watchers saw a port open suddenly,
emit a flame-erupting something, and close as rapidly as it had opened. That something was
a projectile, its propelling rockets fiercely aflame; as smoothly brilliant as its mother-ship
and seemingly as impervious to the lethal beams of the common foe. Detected almost instantly
as it was, it received the full power of the savage attack. The hitherto irresistible plane
of force beat upon it; ultra-violet, infra-red, and heat rays enveloped it; there were hurled
against it all the forces known to the scientific minds within that fiendishly destructive sphere.

Finally, only a scant few hundreds of yards from its goal, the protective mirror was punctured
and the freight of high explosive let go, with a silent, but nevertheless terrific, detonation.
But now another torpedo was on its way, and another, and another; boring on ruthlessly toward
the smaller sphere. Fighting simultaneously three torpedos and the giant globe, the enemy began
dodging, darting hither and thither with a stupendous acceleration; but the tiny pursuers could
not be shaken off. At every dodge and turn, steering rockets burst into furious activity and
the projectiles rushed ever nearer. Knowing that she had at last encountered a superior force,
the sphere turned in mad flight; but, prodigious as was her acceleration, the torpedoes were
faster and all three of them struck her at once. There ensued an explosion veritably space-racking
in its intensity; a flash of incandescent brilliance that seemed to fill all space, subsiding
into a vast volume of tenuous gas which, feebly glowing, flowed about and attached itself to
Cantrell's Comet. And in the space where had been the enemy sphere, there was nothing.

A slow-creeping pale blue rod of tangible force reached out from the great sphere, touched
the wreckage of the Forlorn Hope, and pulled; gently, but with enormous power.

"Tractor beams again!" exclaimed Stevens, still at the plate. "Everybody's got 'em but us,
it seems."

"And we can't fight a bit any more, can we?"

"Not a chance--bows and arrows wouldn't do us much good. However, we may not need 'em. Since
they fought that other crew, and haven't blown us up, they aren't active enemies of ours, and
may be friendly. I haven't any idea who or what they are, since even our communicator ray can't
get through that mirror, but it looks as though our best bet is to act peaceable and see if
we can't talk to them in some way. Right?"

"Right." They stepped out into the airlock, from which they saw that the great sphere had halted
only a few yards from them, and that an indistinct figure stood in an open door, waving to
them an unmistakable invitation to enter the strange vessel.

"Shall we, Steve?"

"Might as well. They've got us foul, and can take us if they want us. Anyway, we'll need at
least a week to fix us up any kind of driving power, so we can't run--and we probably couldn't
get away from those folks if we had all our power. They haven't blown us up, and they could
have done it easily enough. Besides, they act friendly, so we'd better meet them half way. Dive!"

Floating toward the open doorway, they were met by another rod of force, brought gently into
the airlock, and supported upright beside the being who had invited them to visit him. Apparently
an empty space-suit stood there; a peculiarly-fitted suit of some partially transparent, flexible,
glass-like material; towering fully a foot over the head of the tall Terrestrial. Closer inspection,
however, revealed that there was something inside that suit--a shadowy, weirdly-transparent
being, staring at them with large, black eyes. The door clanged shut behind them; they heard
the faint hiss of inrushing air, and the inner door opened; but their enveloping suits remained
stretched almost as tightly as ever. They felt the floor lurch beneath their feet, and a little
weight was granted them as the space-ship got under way. Stevens waved his arms vigorously
at the stranger, pointing backward toward where he supposed their own craft to be. The latter
waved an arm reassuringly, pressed a contact, and a section of the wall suddenly became transparent.
Through it Stevens saw with satisfaction that the Forlorn Hope was not being abandoned; in
the grip of powerful tractor beams, every fragment of the wreckage was following close behind
them in their flight through space.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stevens and Nadia followed their guide along a corridor, through several doors, and into a
large room, which at first glance seemed empty, but in which several of the peculiarly transparent
people of the craft were lying about upon cushions. They were undoubtedly human--but what humans!
Tall and reedy they were, with enormous barrel chests, topped by heads which, though really
large, appeared insignificant because of the prodigious chests and because of the huge, sail-like,
flapping ears. Their skins were a strikingly, livid, pale blue, absolutely devoid of hair;
and their lidless eyes, without a sign of iris, were chillingly horrible in their stark contrast
of enormous, glaring black pupil and ghastly, transparent blue eyeball.

As the two Terrestrials entered the room, the beings struggled to their feet and hurried laboriously
away. Soon one of them returned, dressed in an insulating suit, and carrying three sets of
head harnesses, connected by multiplex cables to a large box which he placed upon the floor.
He handed the headsets to the first officer, who in turn placed two of them at the feet of
the Terrestrials, indicating to them that they were to follow his example in placing them upon
their heads, outside the helmets. They did so, and even through the almost perfect insulation,
and in spite of the powerful heaters of their suits, they felt a touch of frightful cold. The
stranger turned a dial, and the two wanderers from Earth were instantly in full mental communication
with Barkovis, the commander of a space-ship of Titan, the sixth satellite of Saturn!

"Well, I'll be ... say, what is this, anyway?" Steve exclaimed involuntarily, and Nadia smiled
as Barkovis answered with a thought, clearer than any spoken words.

"It is a thought-exchanger. I do not know its fundamental mechanism, since we did not invent
it and since I have had little time to study it. The apparatus, practically as you see it here,
was discovered but a short time ago, in a small, rocket-propelled space-ship which we found
some distance outside of the orbit of Jupiter. Its source of power had been destroyed by the
cold of outer space, but re-powering it was, of course, a small matter. The crew of the vessel
were all dead. They were, however, of human stock, and of a type adapted for life upon a satellite.
I deduce, from your compact structure, your enormous atmospheric pressure, and your, to us,
unbelievably high body temperature, that you must be planet-dwellers. I suppose that you are
natives of Jupiter?"

"Not quite." Stevens had in a measure recovered from his stunned surprise. "We are from Tellus,
the third planet," and he revealed rapidly the events leading up to their present situation,
concluding: "The people in the other sphere were, we believe, natives of Jupiter or of one
of the satellites. We know nothing of them, since we could not look through their screens.
You rescued us from them; do you not know them?"

"No. Our visirays also were stopped by their screens of force--screens entirely foreign to
our science. This is the first time that any vessel from our Saturnian system has ever succeeded
in reaching the neighborhood of Jupiter. We came in peace, but they attacked us at sight and
we were obliged to destroy them. Now we must hurry back to Titan, for two reasons. First, because
we are already at the extreme limit of our power range and Jupiter is getting further and further
away from Saturn. Second because our mirrors, which we had thought perfect reflectors of all
frequencies possible of generation, are not perfect. Enough of those forces came through the
mirrors to volatilize half our crew, and in a few minutes more none of us would have been left
alive. Why, in some places our very atmosphere became almost hot enough to melt water! If another
of those vessels should attack us, in all probability we should all be lost. Therefore we are
leaving as rapidly as is possible."

"You are taking the pieces of our ship along--we do not want to encumber you."

"It is no encumbrance, since we have ample supplies of power. In fact, we are now employing
the highest acceleration we Titanians can endure for any length of time."

Stevens pondered long, forgetting that his thoughts were plain as print to the Titanian commander.
Thank Heaven these strangers had sense enough to be friendly--all intelligent races should
be friends, for mutual advancement. But it was a mighty long stretch to Saturn and this acceleration
wasn't so much. How long would it take to get there? Could they get back? Wouldn't they save
time by casting themselves adrift, making the repairs most urgently needed, and going back
to Ganymede under their own power? But would they have enough power left in the wreck to get
even that far? And how about the big tube? He was interrupted by an insistent thought from
Barkovis.

"You will save time, Stevens, by coming with us to Titan. There we shall aid you in repairing
your vessel and in completing your transmitting tube, in which we shall be deeply interested.
Our power plants shall supply you with energy for your return journey until you are close enough
to Jupiter to recover your own beam. You are tired. I would suggest that you rest--that you
sleep long and peacefully."

"You seem to be handling the Forlorn Hope without any trouble--the pieces aren't grinding at
all. We'd better live there, hadn't we?"

"Yes that would be best, for all of us. You could not live a minute here without your suits;
and, efficiently insulated as those suits are, yet your incandescent body temperature makes
our rooms unbearably hot--so hot that any of us must wear a space-suit while in the same room
with you, to avoid being burned to death."

"The incandescently hot" Terrestrials were wafted into the open airlock of their lifeboat upon
a wand of force, and soon had prepared a long overdue supper, over which Stevens cast his infectious,
boyish grin at Nadia.

"Sweetheart, you are undoubtedly a 'warm number,' and you have often remarked that I 'burn
you up.' Nevertheless I think that we were both considerably surprised to discover that we
are both hot enough actually to consume persons unfortunate enough to be confined in the same
room with us!"

"You're funny, Steve--like a crutch," she rebuked him, but smiled back, an elusive dimple playing
in one lovely brown cheek. "Looking right through anybody is too ghastly for words, but I think
they're perfectly all x, anyway, in spite of their being so hideous and so cold-blooded!"

CHAPTER VI

A Frigid Civilization

"Hi, Percival Van Schravendyck Stevens!" Nadia strode purposely into Stevens' room and seized
him by the shoulder. "Are you going to sleep all the way to Saturn? You answered me when I
pounded on the partition with a hammer, but I don't believe that you woke up at all. Get up,
you--breakfast will be all spoiled directly!"

"Huh?" Stevens opened one sluggish eye; then, as the full force of the insult penetrated his
consciousness, he came wide awake. "Lay off those names, ace, or you'll find yourself walking
back home!" he threatened.

"All x by me!" she retorted. "I might as well go home if you're going to sleep all the time!"
and she widened her expressive eyes at him impishly as she danced blithely back into the control
room. As she went out she slammed his door with a resounding clang, and Stevens pried himself
out of his bunk one joint at a time, dressed, and made himself presentable.

"Gosh!" he yawned mightily as he joined the girl at breakfast. "I don't know when I've had
such a gorgeous sleep. How do you get by on so little?"

"I don't. I sleep a lot, but I do it every night, instead of working for four days and nights
on end and then trying to make up all those four nights' sleep at once. I'm going to break
you of that, too, Steve, if it's the last thing I ever do."

"There might be certain advantages in it, at that," he conceded, "but sometimes you've got
to do work when it's got to be done, instead of just between sleeps. However, I'll try to do
better. Certainly it is a wonderful relief to get out of that mess, isn't it?"

"I'll say it is! But I wish that those folks were more like people. They're nice, I think,
really, but they're so ... so ... well, so ghastly that it simply gives me the blue shivers
just to look at one of them!"

"They're pretty gruesome, no fooling," he agreed, "but you get used to things like that. I
just about threw a fit the first time I ever saw a Martian, and the Venerians are even worse
in some ways--they're so clammy and dead-looking--but now I've got real friends on both planets.
One thing, though, gives me the pip. I read a story a while ago--the latest best-seller thing
of Thornton's named 'Interstellar Slush' or some such tr...."

"Cleophora--An Interstellar Romance," she corrected him. "I thought it was wonderful!"

"I didn't. It's fundamentally unsound. Look at our nearest neighbors, who probably came from
the same original stock we did. A Tellurian can admire, respect, or like a Venerian, yes. But
for loving one of them--wow! Beauty is purely relative, you know. For instance, I think that
you are the most perfectly beautiful thing I ever saw; but no Venerian would think so. Far
from it. Any Martian that hadn't seen many of us would have to go rest his eyes after taking
one good look at you. Considering what love means, it doesn't stand to reason that any Tellurian
woman could possibly fall in love with any man not of her own breed. Any writer is wrong who
indulges in interplanetary love affairs and mad passions. They simply don't exist. They can't
exist--they're against all human instincts."

"Inter-planetary--in this solar system--yes. But the Dacrovos were just like us, only nicer."

"That's what gives me the pip. If our own cousins of the same solar system are so repulsive
to us, how would we be affected by entirely alien forms of intelligence?"

"May be you're right, of course--but you may be wrong, too," she insisted. "The Universe is
big enough, so that people like the Dacrovos may possibly exist in it somewhere. May be the
Big Three will discover a means of interstellar travel--then I'll get to see them myself, perhaps."

"Yes, and if we do, and if you ever see any such people, I'll bet that the sight of them will
make your hair curl right up into a ball, too! But about Barkovis--remember how diplomatic
the thoughts were that he sent us? He described our structure as being 'compact,' but I got
the undertone of his real thoughts, as well. Didn't you?"

"Yes, now that you mention it, I did. He really thought that we were white-hot, under-sized,
overpowered, warty, hairy, hideously opaque and generally repulsive little monstrosities--thoroughly
unpleasant and distasteful. But he was friendly, just the same. Heavens, Steve! Do you suppose
that he read our real thoughts, too?"

"Sure he did; but he is intelligent enough to make allowances, the same as we are doing. He
isn't any more insulted than we are. He knows that such feelings are ingrained and cannot be
changed."

       *       *       *       *       *

Breakfast over, they experienced a new sensation. For the first time in months they had nothing
to do! Used as they were to being surrounded by pressing tasks, they enjoyed their holiday
immensely for a few hours. Sitting idly at the communicator plate, they scanned the sparkling
heavens with keen interest. Beneath them Jupiter was a brilliant crescent not far from the
sun in appearance, which latter had already grown perceptibly smaller and less bright. Above
them, and to their right, Saturn shone refulgently, his spectacular rings plainly visible.
All about them were the glories of the firmament, which never fail to awe the most seasoned
observer. But idleness soon became irksome to those two active spirits, and Stevens prowled
restlessly about their narrow quarters.

"I'm going to go to work before I go dippy," he soon declared. "They've got lots of power,
and we can rig up a transmitter unit to send it over here to our receptor. Then I can start
welding the old Hope together without waiting until we get to Titan to start it. Think I'll
signal Barkovis to come over, and see what he thinks about it."

The Titanian commander approved the idea, and the transmitting field was quickly installed.
Nadia insisted that she, too, needed to work, and that she was altogether too good a mechanic
to waste; therefore the two again labored mightily together, day after day. But the girl limited
rigidly their hours of work to those of the working day; and evening after evening Barkovis
visited with them for hours. Dressed in his heavy space-suit and supported by a tractor beam
well out of range of what seemed to him terrific heat radiated by the bodies of the Terrestrials,
he floated along unconcernedly; while over the multiplex cable of the thought-exchanger he
conversed with the man and woman seated just inside the open outer door of their air-lock.
The Titanian's appetite for information was insatiable--particularly did he relish everything
pertaining to the earth and to the other inner planets, forever barred to him and to his kind.
In return Stevens and Nadia came gradually to know the story of the humanity of Titan.

"I am glad beyond measure to have known you," Barkovis mused, one night. "Your existence proves
that there is truth in mythology, as some of us have always believed. Your visit to Titan will
create a furor in scientific circles, for you are impossibility incarnate--personifications
of the preposterous. In you, wildest fancy had become commonplace. According to many of our
scientists, it is utterly impossible for you to exist. Yet you say, and it must be, that there
are millions upon millions of similar beings. Think of it! Venerians, Tellurians, Martians,
the satellite dwellers of the lost space-ship, and us--so similar mentally, yet physically
how different!"

"But where does the mythology come in?" thought Nadia.

"We have unthinkably ancient legends which say that once Titan was extremely hot, and that
our remote ancestors were beings of fire, in whose veins ran molten water instead of blood.
Since our recorded history goes back some tens of thousands of Saturnian years, and since in
that long period there has been no measurable change in us, few of us have believed in the
legends at all. They have been thought the surviving figments of a barbarous, prehistoric worship
of the sun. However, such a condition is not in conflict with the known facts of cosmogony,
and since there actually exists such a humanity as yours--a humanity whose bodily tissues actually
are composed largely of molten water--those ancient legends must indeed have been based upon truth.

"What an evolution! Century after century of slowly decreasing temperature--one continuous
struggle to adapt the physique to a constantly changing environment. First they must have tried
to maintain their high temperature by covering and heating their cities.--Then, as vegetation
died, they must have bred into their plants the ability to use as sap purely chemical liquids,
such as our present natural fluids--which also may have been partly synthetic then--instead
of the molten water to which they had been accustomed. They must have modified similarly the
outer atmosphere; must have made it more reactive, to compensate for the lowered temperature
at which metabolism must take place. As Titan grew colder and colder they probably dug their
cities deeper and ever deeper; until humanity came finally to realize that it must itself change
completely or perish utterly.

"Then we may picture them as aiding evolution in changing their body chemistry. For thousands,
and thousands of years there must have gone on the gradual adaptation of blood stream and tissue
to more and more volatile liquids, and to lower and still lower temperatures. This must have
continued until Titan arrived at the condition which has now obtained for ages--a condition
of thermal equilibrium with space upon one hand and upon the other the sun, which changes appreciably
only in millions upon millions of years. In equilibrium at last--with our bodily and atmospheric
temperatures finally constant at their present values, which seem as low to you as yours appear
high to us. Truly, an evolution astounding to contemplate!"

"But how about power?" asked Stevens. "You seem to have all you want, and yet it doesn't stand
to reason that there could be very much generated upon a satellite so old and so cold."

"You are right. For ages there has been but little power produced upon Titan. Many cycles ago,
however, our scientists had developed rocket-driven space-ships, with which they explored our
neighboring satellites, and even Saturn itself. It is from power plants upon Saturn that we
draw energy. Their construction was difficult in the extreme, since the pioneers had to work
in braces because of the enormous force of gravity. Then, too, they had to be protected from
the overwhelming pressure and poisonous qualities of the air, and insulated from a temperature
far above the melting point of water. In such awful heat, of course, our customary building
material, water, could not be employed...."

"But all our instruments have indicated that Saturn is cold!" Stevens interrupted.

"Its surface temperature, as read from afar, would be low," conceded Barkovis, "but the actual
surface of the planet is extremely hot, and is highly volcanic. Practically none of its heat
is radiated because of the great density and depth of its atmosphere, which extends for many
hundreds of your kilometers. It required many thousands of lives and many years of time to
build and install those automatic power plants, but once they were in operation, we were assured
of power for many tens of thousands of years to come."

"Our system of power transmission is more or less like yours, but we haven't anything like
your range. Suppose you'd be willing to teach me the computation of your fields?"

"Yes, we shall be glad to give you the formulae. Being an older race, it is perhaps natural
that we should have developed certain refinements as yet unknown to you. But I am, I perceived,
detaining you from your time of rest--goodbye," and Barkovis was wafted back toward his mirrored
globe.

"What do you make of this chemical solution blood of theirs, Steve?" asked Nadia, watching
the placidly floating form of the Titanian captain.

"Not much. I may have mentioned before that there are one or two, or perhaps even three men
who are better chemists than I am. I gathered that it is something like a polyhydric alcohol
and something like a substituted hydrocarbon, and yet different from either in that it contains
flourin in loose combination. I think it is something that our Tellurian chemists haven't got
yet; but they've got so many organic compounds now that they may have synthesized it, at that.
You see, Titan's atmosphere isn't nearly as dense as ours, but what there is of it is pure
dynamite. Ours is a little oxygen, mixed with a lot of inert ingredients. Theirs is oxygen,
heavily laced with flourin. It's reactive, no fooling! However, something pretty violent must
be necessary to carry on body reactions at such a temperature as theirs."

"Probably; but I know even less about that kind of thing than you do. Funny, isn't it, the
way he thinks 'water' when he means ice, and always thinks of our real water as being molten?"

"Reasonable enough when you think about it. Temperature differences are logarithmic, you know,
not arithmetic--the effective difference between his body temperature and ours is perhaps even
greater than that between ours and that of melted iron. We never think of iron as being a liquid,
you know."

"That's right, too. Well, good night, Steve dear."

"'Bye, little queen of space--see you at breakfast," and the Forlorn Hope became dark and silent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Day after day the brilliant sphere flew toward distant Saturn, with the wreckage of the Forlorn
Hope in tow. Piece by piece that wreckage was brought together and held in place by the Titanian
tractors; and slowly but steadily, under Stevens' terrific welding projector, the stubborn
steel flowed together, once more to become a seamless, spaceworthy structure. And Nadia, the
electrician, followed close behind the welder. Wielding torch, pliers and spanner with practised
hand, she repaired or cut out of circuit the damaged accumulator cells and reunited the ends
of each severed power lead. Understanding Nadia's work thoroughly, the Titanians were not particularly
interested in it; but whenever Stevens made his way along an outside seam, he had a large and
thrillingly horrified gallery. Everyone who could possibly secure permission to leave the sphere
did so, each upon his own pencil of force, and went over to watch the welder. They did not
come close to him--to venture within fifty feet of that slow moving spot of scintillating brilliance,
even in a space-suit, meant death--but, poised around him in space, they watched with shuddering,
incredulous amazement, the monstrous human being in whose veins ran molten water instead of
blood; whose body was already so fiercely hot that it could exist unharmed while working practically
without protection, upon liquefied metal!

Finally the welding was done. The insulating space was evacuated and held its vacuum--outer
and inner shells were bottle-tight. The two mechanics heaved deep sighs of relief as they discarded
their cumbersome armor and began to repair what few of their machine tools had been damaged
by the slashing plane of force which had so neatly sliced the Forlorn Hope into sections.

"Say, big fellow, you're the guy that slings the ink, ain't you?" Nadia extinguished her torch
and swaggered up to Stevens, hands on hips, her walk an exaggerated roll. "Write me out a long
walk. This job's all played out, so I think I'll get me a good job on Titan. I said give me
my time, you big stiff!"

"You didn't say nothing!" growled Stevens in his deepest bass, playing up to her lead as he
always did. "Bounce back, cub, you've struck a rubber fence! You signed on for duration and
you'll stick--see?"

Arm in arm they went over to the nearest communicator plate. Flipping the switch, Stevens turned
the dial and Titan shone upon the screen; so close, that it no longer resembled a moon, but
was a world toward which they were falling with an immense velocity.

"Not close enough to make out much detail yet--let's take another look at Saturn," and Stevens
projected the visiray beam out toward the mighty planet. It was now an enormous full moon,
almost five degrees in apparent diameter,[1] its visible surface an expanse of what they knew
to be billowing cloud, shining brilliantly white in the pale sunlight, broken only by a dark
equatorial band.

[Footnote 1: The moon subtends an angle of about one-half of a degree.]

"Those rings were such a gorgeous spectacle a little while ago!" Nadia mourned. "It's a shame
that Titan has to be right in their plane, isn't it? Think of living this close to one of the
most wonderful sights in the Solar System, and never being able to see it. Think they know
what they're missing, Steve?"

"We'll have to ask Barkovis," Stevens replied. He swung the communicator beam back toward Titan,
and Nadia shuddered.

"Oh, it's hideous!" she exclaimed. "I thought that it would improve as we got closer, but the
plainer we can see it, the worse it gets. Just to think of human beings, even such cold-blooded
ones as those over there, living upon such a horrible moon and liking it, gives mi the blue
shivers!"

"It's pretty bleak, no fooling," he admitted, and peered through the eyepiece of the visiray
telescope, studying minutely the forbidding surface of the satellite they were so rapidly approaching.

Larger and larger it loomed, a cratered, jagged globe of desolation indescribable; of sheer,
bitter cold incarnate and palpable; of stark, sharp contrasts. Gigantic craters, in whose yawning
depths no spark of warmth had been generated for countless cycles of time, were surrounded
by vast plains eroded to the dead level of a windless sea. Every lofty object cast a sharply
outlined shade of impenetrable blackness, beside which the weak light of the sun became a dazzling
glare. The ground was either a brilliant white or an intense black, unrelieved by half-tones.

"I can't hand it much, either, Nadia, but it's all in the way you've been brought up, you know.
This is home to them, and just to look at Tellus would give them the pip. Ha! Here's something
you'll like, even if it does look so cold that it makes me feel like hugging a couple of heater
coils. It's Barkovis' city the one we're heading for, I think. It's close enough now so that
we can get it on the plate," and he set the communicator beam upon the metropolis of Titan.

"Why, I don't see a thing, Steve--where and what is it?" They were dropping vertically downward
toward the center of a vast plain of white, featureless and desolate; and Nadia stared in disappointment.

"You'll see directly--it's too good to spoil by telling you what to look for or wh...."

"Oh, there it is!" she cried. "It is beautiful, Steve, but how frightfully, utterly cold!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A flash of prismatic color had caught the girl's eye, and, one transparent structure thus revealed
to her sight, there had burst into view a city of crystal. Low buildings of hexagonal shape,
arranged in irregularly variant hexagonal patterns, extended mile upon mile. From the roofs
of the structures lacy spires soared heavenward; inter-connected by long, slim cantilever bridges
whose prodigious spans seemed out of all proportion to the gossamer delicacy of their construction.
Buildings, spires, and bridges formed fantastic geometrical designs, at which Nadia exclaimed
in delight.

"I've just thought of what that reminds me of--it's snowflakes!"

"Sure--I knew it was something familiar. Snowflakes--no two are ever exactly alike, and yet
every one is symmetrical and hexagonal. We're going to land on the public square--see the crowds?
Let's put on our suits and go out."

The Forlorn Hope lay in a hexagonal park, and near it the Titanian globe had also come to rest.
All about the little plot towered the glittering buildings of crystal, and in its center played
a fountain; a series of clear and sparkling cascades of liquid jewels. Under foot there spread
a thick, soft carpet of whitely brilliant vegetation. Throngs of the grotesque citizens of
Titania were massed to greet the space-ships; throngs clustering close about the globular vessel,
but maintaining a respectful distance from the fiercely radiant Terrestrial wedge. All were
shouting greetings and congratulations--shouts which Stevens found as intelligible as his own
native tongue.

"Why, I can understand every word they say, Steve!" Nadia exclaimed, in surprise. "How come,
do you suppose?"

"I can, too. Don't know--must be from using that thought telephone of theirs so much, I guess.
Here comes Barkovis--I'll ask him."

The Titanian commander had been in earnest conversation with a group of fellow-creatures and
was now walking toward the Terrestrials, carrying the multiple headsets. Placing them upon
the white sward, he backed away, motioning the two visitors to pick them up.

"It may not be necessary, Barkovis," Stevens said, slowly and clearly. "We do not know why,
but we can understand what your people are saying, and it may be that you can now understand us."

"Oh, yes, I can understand your English perfectly. A surprising development, but perhaps, after
all, one that should have been expected, from the very nature of the device we have been using.
I wanted to tell you that I have just received grave news, which makes it impossible for us
to help you immediately, as I promised. While we were gone, one of our two power-plants upon
Saturn failed. In consequence, Titan's power has been cut to a minimum, since maintaining our
beam at that great distance required a large fraction of the output of the other plant. Because
of this lack, the Sedlor walls were weakened to such a point that in spite of the Guardian's
assurances, I think trouble is inevitable. At all events, it is of the utmost importance that
we begin repairing the damaged unit, for that is to be a task indeed."

"Yes, it will take time," agreed Stevens, remembering what the Titanian captain had told him
concerning the construction of those plants--generators which had been in continuous and automatic
operation for thousands of Saturnian years.

"It will take more than time--it will take lives," replied Barkovis, gravely. "Scores, perhaps
hundreds, of us will never again breathe the clear, pure air of Titan. In spite of all precaution
and all possible bracing and insulation, man after man after man will be crushed by his own
weight, volatilized by the awful heat, poisoned by the foul atmosphere, or will burst into
unthinkable flames at the touch of some flying spark from the inconceivably hot metals with
which we shall have to work. A horrible fate, but we shall not lack for volunteers."

"Sure not; and of course you yourself would go. And I never thought of the effect a spark would
have on you--your tissues would probably be wildly inflammable. But say, I just had a thought.
Just how hot is the air at those plants and just what is the actual pressure?"

"According to the records, the temperature is some forty of your centigrade degrees above the
melting-point of water, and the pressure is not far short of two of your meters of mercury.
I find it almost impossible to think of mercury as a liquid, however."

"You find it impossible, since you use it as a metal, for wires in coils and so on. But plus
forty, while pretty warm, isn't impossible, by any means; and we could stand double our air
pressure for quite a while. Both my partner and I are pretty fair mechanics and we've got quite
a line of machine tools, such as you could not possibly have here. We'll give it a whirl, since
we owe you something already. Lead us to it, ace--but wait a minute! We can't see through the
fog, so couldn't find the plants, and probably your wiring diagrams would explode if I touched
them."

"I never thought of your helping us," mused Barkovis. "The idea of any living being existing
in that inferno has always been unthinkable, but the difficulties you mention are slight. We
have already built in our vessel communicators similar to yours, and radio sets. With these
we can guide you and explain the plants to you as you work, and our tractor beams will be of
assistance to you in moving heavy objects, even at such distances from the surface as we Titanians
shall have to maintain. If you will set out a flask of your atmosphere, we will analyze it,
for the thought has come to me that perhaps, being planet-dwellers yourselves, the air of Saturn
might not be as poisonous to you as it is to us."

"That's a thought, too," and, the news broadcast, it was not long until the two ships leaped
into the air, to the accompaniment of the cheers and plaudits of a watching multitude.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a wide curve they sped toward Saturn. Passing so close to the enormous rings that the individual
meteoric fragments could almost be seen with the unaided eye, they flashed on and on, slowing
down long before they approached the upper surface of the envelope of cloud. The spherical
space-ship stopped and Stevens, staring into his useless screen, drove the Forlorn Hope downward
mile after mile, solely under Barkovis' direction, changing course and power from time to time
as the Titanian's voice came from the speaker at his elbow. Slower and slower became the descent,
until finally, almost upon the broad, flat roof of the power-plant, Stevens saw it in his plate.
Breathing deeply in relief, he dropped quickly down upon a flat pavement, neutralized his controls,
and turned to Nadia.

"Well, old golf-shootist, we're here at last--now we'll go out and see what's gone screwy with
the works. Remember that gravity is about double normal here, and conduct yourself accordingly."

"But it's supposed to be only about nine-tenths," she objected.

"That's at the outer surface of the atmosphere," he replied. "And it's some atmosphere--not
like the thin layer we've got on Tellus."

They went into the airlock, and Stevens admitted air until their suits began to collapse. Then,
face-plate valves cracked, he sniffed cautiously, finally opening his helmet wide. Nadia followed
suit and the man laughed as she wrinkled her nose in disgust as two faint, but unmistakable
odors smote her olfactory nerves.

"I never cared particularly for hydrogen sulphide and sulphur dioxide, either," he assured
her, "but they aren't strong enough to hurt us in the short time we'll be here. Those Titanian
chemists know their stuff, though."

He opened the outer valves slowly, then opened the door and they stepped down upon the smooth,
solid floor, which Stevens examined carefully.

"I thought so, from his story. Solid platinum! This whole planet is built of platinum, iridium,
and noble alloys--the only substances known that will literally last forever. Believe me, ace
of my bosom, I don't wonder that it cost them lives to build it--with their conditions, I don't
see how they ever got it built at all."

Before them rose an immense, flat-topped cone of metal, upon the top of which was situated
the power plant. Twelve massive pillars supported a flat roof, but permitted the air to circulate
freely throughout the one great room which housed the machinery. They climbed a flight of stairs,
passed between two pillars, and stared about them. There was no noise, no motion--there was
nothing that could move. Twelve enormous masses of metallic checkerwork, covered with wide
cooling fins, almost filled the vast hall. From the center of each mass great leads extended
out into a clear space in the middle of the room, there uniting in mid-air to form one enormous
bus-bar. This bar, thicker than a man's body, had originally curved upward to the base of an
immense parabolic structure of latticed bars. Now, however, it was broken in midspan and the
two ends bent toward the floor. Above their heads, a jagged hole gaped in the heavy metal of
the roof, and a similar hole had been torn in the floor. The bar had been broken and these
holes had been made by some heavy body, probably a meteorite, falling with terrific velocity.

"This is it, all right," Stevens spoke to distant Barkovis. "Sure there's nothing on this beam?
If it should be hot and I should short circuit or bridge it with my body, it would be just
too bad."

"We have made sure that nothing is connected to it," the Titanian assured him. "Do you think
you can do anything?"

"Absolutely. We've got jacks that'll bend heavier stuff than that, and after we get it straightened
the welding will be easy, but I'll have to have some metal. Shall I cut a piece off the pavement
outside?"

"That will not be necessary. You will find ample stores of space metal piled at the base of
each pillar."

"All x. Now we'll get the jack, Nadia," and they went back to their vessel, finding that upon
Saturn, their combined strength was barely sufficient to drag the heavy tool along the floor.

"Stand aside, please. We will place it for you," a calm voice sounded in their ears, and a
pale blue tractor beam picked the massive jack lightly from the floor, and as lightly lifted
it to its place beneath the broken bus-bar and held it there while Stevens piled blocks and
plates of platinum beneath its base.

"Well, here's where I peel down as far as the law allows. This is going to be real work, girl--no
fooling. It'd help a lot if this outfit were sending out a few thousand kilo-franks instead
of standing idle."

"How would that help?"

"It's a heat-engine, you know--works by absorbing heat. The cold air sinks--I imagine it pretty
nearly blows a gale down the side of this cone when it's working--and hot air rushes in to
take its place. I could use a little cool breeze right now," and Stevens, stripped to the waist,
bent to the lever of the powerful hydraulic jack.

Beads of sweat gathered upon his broad back, uniting to form tiny rivulets, and the girl became
highly concerned about him.

"Let me help you, Steve--I'm pretty husky, too, you know."

"Sure you are, ace, but this is a job for a truck-horse, not a tenderly-nurtured maiden of
the upper classes. You can help, though, by breaking out that welding outfit and getting it
ready while I'm doing this bending to prepare for the welding."

Under the urge of that mighty jack the ends of the broken bus-bar rose into place, while far
off in space the Titanians clustered about their visiray screens, watching, in almost unbelieving
amazement, the supernatural being who labored in that reeking inferno of heat and poisonous
vapor--who labored almost naked and entirely unprotected, refreshing himself from time to time
with drafts of molten water!

"All x, Barkovis--that's high, I guess." Stevens flipped perspiration from his hot forehead
with a wet finger and straightened his weary back. "Now you can put this jack away where we
had it. Then you might trundle me over enough of that spare metal to fill up this hole, and
I'll put on my suit and goggles and practice welding on this floor and the roof, to get the
feel of the metal before I tackle the bar."

The hole in the floor was filled with scrap and soon sparks were flying wildly as the searing
beam of Stevens' welding projector bit viciously into the stubborn alloy of noble metals; fashioning
a smooth, solid floor where the yawning aperture had been. Then, lifted with his tools and
plates to the roof, the man repaired that hole also.

"Now I know enough about it to do a good job on the bar," he decided, and brick after brick
of alloy was fused into the crack, until only a smoothly rounded bulge betrayed that a break
had ever existed in that mighty rod of metal.

"Give 'em the signal to draw power, and see if that's all that was the matter," Stevens instructed,
as he relaxed in the grateful coolness of their control room. "Whew, that was a warm job, Nadia--and
this air of ours does smell good!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"It was a horrible job, and I'm glad it's done," she declared. "But say, Steve, that thing
looks as little like a power-plant as anything I can imagine. How does it work? You said that
it worked on heat, but I don't quite see how. But don't draw diagrams and please don't integrate!"

"No ordinary plant such as we use could run for centuries without attention," he replied. "This
is a highly advanced heat-engine--something like a thermo-couple, you know. This whole thing
is simply the hot end, connected to the cold end on Titan by a beam instead of wires. When
it's working, this metal must cool off something fierce. That's what the checkerwork and fins
are for--so that it can absorb the maximum amount of heat from the current of hot, moist air
I spoke about. It's a sweet system--we'll have to rig up one between Tellus and the moon. Or
even between the Equator and the Arctic Circle there'd be enough thermal differential to give
us a million kilofranks. We haven't got the all x signal yet, but it's working--look at it
sweat as it cools down!"

"I'll say it's sweating--the water is simply streaming off it!" In their plate they saw that
moisture was already beginning to condense upon the heat-absorber: moisture running down the
fins in streams and creeping over the dull metal floor in sluggish sheets; moisture which,
turning into ice in the colder interior of the checkerwork, again became fluid at the inrush
of hot, wet Saturnian air.

"There's the signal--all x, Barkovis? By the way it's condensing water, it seems to be functioning
again."

"Perfect!" came the Titanian's enthusiastic reply, "You two planet-dwellers have done more
in three short hours than the entire force of Titan could have accomplished in months. You
have earned, and shall receive, the highest...."

"As you were, ace!" Stevens interrupted, embarrassed. "This job was just like shooting fish
down a well, for us. Since you saved our lives, we owe you a lot yet. We're coming out--straight
up!"

The Forlorn Hope shot upward, through mile after mile of steaming fog, until at last she broke
through into the light, clear outer atmosphere. Stevens located the Titanian space-ship, and
the two vessels once more hurtling together through the ether toward Titan, he turned to his
companion.

"Take the controls, will you, Nadia? Think I'll finish up the tube. I brought along a piece
of platinum from the power plant, and something that I think is tantalum from Barkovis' description
of it. With those and the fractions we melted out, I think I can make everything we'll need."

Now that he had comparatively pure metal with which to work, drawing the leads and filaments
was relatively a simple task. Working over the hot-bench with torch and welding projector,
he made short work of running the leads through the almost plastic glass of the great tube
and of sealing them in place. The plates and grids presented more serious problems; but they
were solved and, long before Titan was reached, the tube was out in space, supported by a Titanian
tractor beam between the two vessels. Stevens came into the shop, holding a modified McLeod
gauge which he had just taken from the interior of the tube. When it had come to equilibrium,
he read it carefully and yelled.

"Eureka, little fellow! She's down to where I can't read it, even on this big gauge--so hard
that it won't need flashing--harder than any vacuum I ever got on Tellus, even with a Rodebush-Michalek
super-pump!"

"But how about occluded and absorbed gas in the filaments and so on when they heat up?" demanded
Nadia, practically.

"All gone, ace. I out-gassed 'em plenty out there--seven times, almost to fusion. There isn't
enough gas left in the whole thing to make a deep breath for a microbe."

He took up his welding projector and a beam carried him back to the tube. There, in the practically
absolute vacuum of space, the last openings in the glass were sealed, and man and great transmitting
tube were wafted lightly back into the Terrestrial cruiser.

Hour after hour mirrored Titanian sphere and crude-fashioned terrestrial wedge bored serenely
on through space, and it was not until Titan loomed large beneath them that the calm was broken
by an insistent call from Titan to the sphere.

"Barkodar, attention! Barkodar, attention!" screamed from the speakers, and they heard Barkovis
acknowledge the call.

"The Sedlor have broken through and are marching upon Titania. The order has gone out for immediate
mobilization of every unit."

"There's that word 'Sedlor' again--what are they, anyway, Steve?" demanded Nadia.

"I don't know. I was going to ask him when he sprung it on us first, but he was pretty busy
then and I haven't thought of it since. Something pretty serious, though--they've jumped their
acceleration almost to Tellurian gravity, and none of them can live through much of that."

"Tellurians?" came the voice of Barkovis from the speaker. "We have just...."

"All x--we were on your wave and heard it," interrupted Stevens. "We're with you. What are
those Sedlor, anyway? Maybe we can help you dope out something."

"Perhaps--but whatever you do, do not use your heat-projector. That would start a conflagration
raging over the whole country, and we shall have enough to do without fighting fire. But it
may be that you have other weapons, of which we are ignorant, and I can use a little time in
explanation before we arrive. The Sedlor are a form of life, something like your..." he paused,
searching through his scanty store of Earthly knowledge, then went on, doubtfully, "perhaps
some thing like your insects. They developed a sort of intelligence, and because of their fecundity,
adapted themselves to their environment as readily as did man; and for ages they threatened
man's supremacy upon Titan. They devoured vegetation, crops, animals, and mankind. After a
world-wide campaign, however, they were finally exterminated, save in the neighborhood of one
great volcanic crater, which they so honeycombed that it is almost impregnable. All around
that district we have erected barriers of force, maintained by a corps of men known as 'Guardians
of the Sedlor.' These barriers extend so far into the ground and so high into the air that
the Sedlor can neither burrow beneath them nor fly over them. They were being advanced as rapidly
as possible, and in a few more years the insects would have been destroyed completely--but
now they are again at large. They have probably developed an armor or a natural resistance
greater than the Guardians thought possible, so that when the walls were weakened, they came
through in their millions, underground and undetected. They are now attacking our nearest city--the
one you know, and which you have called Titania."

"What do you use--those high-explosive bombs?"

"The bombs were developed principally for use against them, but proved worse than useless,
for we found that when a Sedlor was blown to pieces, each piece forthwith developed into a
new, complete creature. Our most efficient weapons are our heat rays--not yours remember--and
poison gas. I must prepare our arms."

"Would our heat-ray actually set them afire, Steve?" Nadia asked, as the plate went blank.

"I'll say it would. I'll show you what heat means to them--showing you will be plainer than
any amount of explanation," and he shot the visiray beam down toward the city of Titania. Into
a low-lying building it went, and Nadia saw a Titanian foundry in full operation. Men clad
in asbestos armor were charging, tending, and tapping great electric furnaces and crucibles;
shrinking back and turning their armored heads away as the hissing, smoking melt crackled into
the molds from their long-handled ladles. Nadia studied the foundry for a moment, interested,
but unimpressed.

"Of course it's hot there--foundries always are hot," she argued.

"Yes, but you haven't got the idea yet." Stevens turned again to the controls, following the
sphere toward what was evidently a line of battle. "That stuff that they are melting and casting
and that is so hot, is not metal, but ice! Remember that the vital fluid of all life here,
animal and vegetable, corresponding to our water, is probably more inflammable than gasoline.
If they can't work on ice-water without wearing suits of five-ply asbestos, what would a real
heat-ray do to them? It'd be about like our taking a dive into the sun!"

"Ice!" she exclaimed. "Oh of course--but you couldn't really believe a thing like that without
seeing it, could you? Oh, Steve--how utterly horrible!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Barkodar" had dropped down into a line of sister ships, and had gone into action in midair
against a veritable swarm of foes. Winged centipedes they were--centipedes fully six feet long,
hurling themselves along the ground and through the air in furious hordes. From the flying
globes emanated pale beams of force, at the touch of which the Sedlor disappeared in puffs
of vapor. Upon the ground huge tractors and trucks, manned by masked soldiery, mounted mighty
reflectors projecting the same lethal beam. From globes and tanks there sounded a drumming
roar and small capsules broke in thousands among the foe; emitting a red cloud of gas in which
the centipedes shriveled and died. But for each one that was destroyed two came up from holes
in the ground and the battle-line fell back toward Titania, back toward a long line of derrick-like
structures which were sinking force-rods into the ground in furious haste.

Stevens flashed on his ultra-violet projector and swung it into the thickest ranks of the enemy.
In the beam many of the monsters died, but the Terrestrial ray was impotent compared with the
weapons of the Titanians, and Stevens, snapping off the beam with a bitter imprecation, shot
the visiray out toward the bare, black cone of the extinct volcano and studied it with care.

"Barkovis, I've got a thought!" he snapped into the microphone. "Their stronghold is in that
mountain, and there's millions of them in there yet, coming out along their tunnels. They've
got all the vegetation eaten away for miles, so there's nothing much left there to spread a
fire if I go to work on that hill, and, I'll probably melt enough water to put out most of
the fires I start. Detail me a couple of ships to drop your fire-foam bombs on any little blazes
that may spread, and I'll give them so much to worry about at home, that they'll forget all
about Titania."

The Forlorn Hope darted toward the crater, followed closely by two of the dazzling globes.
They circled the mountain until Stevens found a favorable point of attack--a stupendous vertical
cliff of mingled rock and crystal, upon the base of which he trained his terrific infra-red
projector.

"I'm going to draw a lot of power," he warned the Titanians then. "I'm giving this gun everything
she'll take."

He drove the massive switches in, and as that dull red beam struck the cliff's base there was
made evident the awful effect of a concentrated beam of real and pure heat upon such an utterly
frigid world. Vast columns of fire roared aloft, helping Stevens, melting and destroying the
very ground as the bodies of the Sedlor in that gigantic ant-heap burst into flames. Clouds
of superheated steam roared upward, condensing into a hot rain which descended in destructive
torrents upon the fastnesses of the centipedes. As the raging beam ate deeper and deeper into
the base of the cliff, the mountain itself began to disintegrate; block after gigantic block
breaking off and crashing down into the flaming, boiling, seething cauldron which was the apex
of that ravening beam.

Hour after hour Stevens drove his intolerable weapon into the great mountain, teeming with
Sedlorean life; and hour after hour a group of Titanian spheres stood by, deluging the surrounding
plain with a flood of heavy fumes, through which the holocaust could not spread for lack of
oxygen. Not until the mountain was gone--not until in its stead there lay a furiously boiling
lake, its flaming surface hundreds of feet below the level of the plain--did Stevens open his
power circuits and point the deformed prow of the Forlorn Hope toward Titania.

CHAPTER VII

The Return to Ganymede

"Must you you go back to Ganymede?" Barkovis asked, slowly and thoughtfully. He was sitting
upon a crystal bench beside the fountain, talking with Stevens, who, dressed in his bulging
space-suit, stood near an airlock of the Forlorn Hope. "It seems a shame that you should face
again those unknown, monstrous creatures who so inexcusably attacked us both without provocation."

"I'm not so keen on it myself, but I can't see any other way out of it," the Terrestrial replied.
"We left a lot of our equipment there, you know; and even if I should build duplicates here,
it wouldn't do us any good. These ten-nineteens are the most powerful transmitting tubes known
when we left Tellus, but even their fields, dense as they are, can't hold an ultra-beam together
much farther than about six astronomical units. So you see we can't possibly reach our friends
from here with this tube; and your system of beam transmission won't hold anything together
even that far, and won't work on any wave shorter than Roeser's Rays. We may run into some
more of those little spheres, though, and I don't like the prospect. I wonder if we couldn't
plate a layer of that mirror of yours upon the Hope and carry along a few of those bombs? By
the way, what is that explosive--or is it something beyond Tellurian chemistry?"

"Its structure should be clear to you, although you probably could not prepare it upon Tellus
because of your high temperature. It is nothing but nitrogen--twenty-six atoms of nitrogen
combined to form one molecule of what you would call--N-twenty-six?"

"Wow!" Stevens whistled. "Crystalline, pentavalent nitrogen--no wonder it's violent!"

"We could, of course, cover your vessel with the mirror, but I am afraid that it would prove
of little value. The plates are so hot that it would soon volatilize."

"Not necessarily," argued Stevens. "We could live in number one life-boat, and shut off the
heat everywhere else. The life-boats are insulated from the structure proper, and the inner
and outer walls of the structure are insulated from each other. With only the headquarters
lifeboat warm, the outer wall could be held pretty close to zero absolute."

"That is true. The bombs, of course, are controlled by radio, and therefore may be attached
to the outer wall of your vessel. We shall be glad to do these small things for you."

The heaters of the Forlorn Hope were shut off, and as soon as the outer shell had cooled to
Titanian temperature, a corps of mechanics set to work. A machine very like a concrete mixer
was rolled up beside the steel vessel, and into its capacious maw were dumped boxes and barrels
of dry ingredients and many cans of sparkling liquid. The resultant paste was pumped upon the
steel plating in a sluggish, viscid stream, which spread out into a thick and uniform coating
beneath the flying rollers of the skilled Titanian workmen. As it hardened, the paste smoothed
magically into the perfect mirror which covered the space-vessels of the satellite; and a full
dozen of the mirror explosive bombs of this strange people were hung in the racks already provided.

"Once again I must caution you concerning those torpedoes," Barkovis warned Stevens. "If you
use them all, very well, but do not try to take even one of them into any region where it is
very hot, for it will explode and demolish your vessel. If you do not use them, destroy them
before you descend into the hot atmosphere of Ganymede. The mirror will volatilize harmlessly
at the temperature of melting mercury, but the torpedoes must be destroyed. Once more, Tellurians,
we thank you for what you have done, and wish you well."

"Thanks a lot for your help--we still owe you something," replied Stevens. "If either of your
power-plants go sour on you again, or if you need any more built, be sure to let us know--you
can come close enough to the inner planets now on your own beam to talk to us on the ultra-communicator.
We'll be glad to help you any way we can--and we may call on you for help again. Goodbye, Barkovis--goodbye,
all Titania!"

He made his way through the bitterly cold shop into the control-room of their lifeboat, and
while he was divesting himself of his heavy suit, Nadia lifted the Forlorn Hope into the blue-green
sky of Titan, accompanied by an escort of the mirrored globes. Well clear of the atmosphere
of the satellite, the terrestrial cruiser shot forward at normal acceleration, while the Titanian
vessels halted and wove a pattern of blue and golden rays in salute to the departing guests.

"Well, Nadia, we're off--on a long trek, too."

"Said Wun Long Hop, the Chinese pee-lo," Nadia agreed. "Sure everything's all x, big boy?"

"To nineteen decimals," he declared. "You couldn't squeeze another frank into our accumulators
with a proof-bar, and since they're sending us all the power we want to draw, we won't need
to touch our batteries or tap our own beam until we're almost to Jupiter. To cap the climax,
what it takes to make big medicine on those spherical friends of ours, we've got. We're not
sitting on top of the world, ace--we've perched exactly at the apex of the entire universe!"

"How long is it going to take?"

"Don't know. Haven't figured it yet, but it'll be beaucoup days," and the two wanderers from
far-distant Earth settled down to the routine of a long and uneventful journey.

They gave Saturn and his spectacular rings a wide berth and sped on, with ever-increasing velocity.
Past the outer satellites, on and on, the good ship Forlorn Hope flew into the black-and-brilliant
depths of interplanetary space. Saturn was an ever-diminishing disk beneath them: above them
was Jupiter's thin crescent, growing ever larger and more bright, and the Monarch of the Solar
System, remaining almost stationary day after day, increasing steadily in apparent diameter
and in brilliance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although the voyage from Titan to Ganymede was long, it was not monotonous, for there was much
work to be done in the designing and fabrication of the various units which were to comprise
the ultra-radio transmitting station. In the various compartments of the Forlorn Hope there
were sundry small motors, blowers, coils, condensers, force-field generators, and other items
which Stevens could use with little or no alteration; but for the most part he had to build
everything himself. Thus it was that time passed quickly; so quickly that Jupiter loomed large
and the Saturnian beam of power began to attenuate almost before the Terrestrials realized
that their journey was drawing to an end.

"Our beam's falling apart fast," Stevens read his meters carefully, then swung his communicator
beam toward Jupiter. "We aren't getting quite enough power to hold our acceleration at normal--think
I'll cut now, while we're still drawing enough to let the Titanians know we're off their beam.
We've got lots of power of our own now; and we're getting pretty close to enemy territory,
so they may locate that heavy beam. Have you found Ganymede yet?"

"Yes, it will be on the other side of Jupiter by the time we get there. Shall I detour, or
put on a little more negative and wait for it to come around to this side?"

"Better wait, I think. The farther away we stay from Jupiter and the major satellites, the better."

"All x--it's on. Suppose we'd better start standing watches, in case some of them show up?"

"No use," he dissented. "I've been afraid to put out our electro-magnetic detectors, as they
could surely trace them in use. Without them, we couldn't spot an enemy ship even if we were
looking right at it, except by accident; since they won't be lighted up and it's awfully hard
to see anything out here, anyway. We probably won't know they're within a million kilometers
until they put a beam on us. Barkovis says that this mirror will reflect any beam they can
use, and I've already got a set of photo-cells in circuit to ring an alarm at the first flash
off of our mirror plating. I'd like to get in the first licks myself, but I haven't been able
to dope out any way of doing it. So you might as well sleep in your own room, as usual, and
I'll camp here right under the panel until we get to Ganymede. There's a couple of little things
I just thought of, though, that may help some; and I'm going to do 'em right now."

Putting on his space-suit, he picked up a power drill and went out into the bitter cold of
the outer structure. There he attacked the inner wall of their vessel, and the carefully established
inter-wall vacuum disappeared in a screaming hiss of air as the tempered point bit through
plate after plate.

"What's the idea, Steve?" Nadia asked, when he had re-entered the control room. "Now you'll
have all that pumping to do over again."

"Protection for the mirrors," he explained. "You see, they aren't perfect reflectors. There's
a little absorption, so that some stuff comes through. Not much, of course; but enough to kill
some of those Titanians and almost enough to ruin their ship got through in about ten minutes,
and only one enemy was dealing it out. We can stand more than they could, of course, but the
mirror itself won't stand much more heat than it was absorbing then. But with air in those
spaces instead of vacuum, and with the whole mass of the Hope, except this one lifeboat, as
cold as it is, I figure that there'll be enough conduction and convection through them to keep
the outer wall and the mirror cold--cool enough, at least, to hold the mirror on for an hour.
If only one ship tackles us, it won't be bad--but I figure that if there's only one, we're lucky."

       *       *       *       *       *

Stevens' fears were only too well grounded, for during the "evening" of the following day,
while he was carefully scanning the heavens for some sign of enemy craft, the alarm bell over
his head burst into its brazen clamor. Instantly he shot out the detectors and ultra-lights
and saw not one, but six of the deadly globes--almost upon them, at point-blank range! One
was already playing a beam of force upon the Forlorn Hope, and the other five went into action
immediately upon feeling the detector impulses and perceiving that the weapon of their sister
ship had encountered an unusual resistance in the material of that peculiarly mirrored wedge.
As those terrific forces struck her, the terrestrial cruiser became a vast pyrotechnic set
piece, a dazzling fountain of coruscant brilliance: for the mirror held. The enemy beams shot
back upon themselves and rebounded in all directions, in the same spectacular exhibition of
frenzied incandescence which had marked the resistance of the Titanian sphere to a similar attack.

But Stevens was not idle. In the instant of launching his detectors, as fast as he could work
the trips, four of the frightful nitrogen bombs of Titan--all that he could handle at once--shot
out into space, their rocket-tubes flaring viciously. The enemy detectors of course located
the flying torpedoes immediately, but, contemptuous of material projectiles, the spheres made
no attempt to dodge, but merely lashed out upon them with their ravening rays. So close was
the range that they had no time to avoid the radio-directed bombs after discovering that their
beams were useless against the unknown protective covering of those mirrored shells. There
were four practically simultaneous detonations--silent, but terrific explosions as the pent-up
internal energy of solid pentavalent nitrogen was instantaneously released--and the four insensately
murderous spheres disappeared into jagged fragments of wreckage, flying wildly away from the
centers of explosion. One great mass of riven and twisted metal was blown directly upon the
fifth globe, and Nadia stared in horrified fascination at the silent crash as the entire side
of the ship crumpled inward like a shell of cardboard under the awful impact. That vessel was
probably out of action, but Stevens was taking no chances. As soon as he had clamped a pale
blue tractor rod upon the sixth and last of the enemy fleet, he drove a torpedo through the
gaping wall and into the interior of the helpless war-vessel. There he exploded it, and the
awful charge, detonated in that confined space, literally tore the globular space-ship to bits.

"We'll show these jaspers what kind of trees make shingles!" he gritted between clenched teeth;
and his eyes, hard now as gray iron, fairly emitted sparks as he launched four torpedoes upon
the sole remaining globe of the squadron of the void. "I've had a lot of curiosity to know
just what kind of unnatural monstrosities can possibly have such fiendish dispositions as they've
got--but beasts, men or devils, they'll find they've grabbed something this time they can't
let go of," and fierce blasts of energy ripped from the exhausts as he drove his missiles,
at their highest possible acceleration, toward the captive sphere so savagely struggling at
the extremity of his tractor beam.

But that one remaining vessel was to prove no such easy victim as had its sister ships. Being
six to one, and supposedly invincible, the squadron had been overconfident and had attacked
carelessly, with only its crippling slicing beams instead of its more deadly weapons of total
destruction; and so fierce and hard had been Stevens' counter-attack that five of its numbers
had been destroyed before they realized what powerful armament was mounted by that apparently
crude, helpless, and innocuous wedge. The sixth, however, was fully warned, and every resource
at the command of its hellish crew was now being directed against the Forlorn Hope.

Sheets, cones, and gigantic rods of force flashed and crackled. Space was filled with silent,
devastating tongues of flame. The Forlorn Hope was dragged about erratically as the sphere
tried to dodge those hurtling torpedoes; tried to break away from the hawser of energy anchoring
her so solidly to her opponent. But the linkage held, and closer and closer Stevens drove the
fourfold menace of his frightful dirigible bombs. Pressor beams beat upon them in vain. Hard
driven as those pushers were, they could find no footing, but were reflected at many angles
by that untouchable mirror and their utmost force scarcely impeded the progress of the rocket-propelled
missiles. Comparatively small as the projectiles were, however, they soon felt the effects
of the prodigious beams of heat enveloping them, and torpedo after torpedo exploded harmlessly
in space as their mirrors warmed up and volatilized. But for each bomb that was lost, Stevens
launched another, and each one came closer to its objective than had its predecessor.

Made desperate by the failure of his every beam, the enemy commander thought to use material
projectiles himself--weapons abandoned long since by his race as antiquated and inefficient,
but a few of which were still carried by the older types of vessels. One such shell was found
and launched--but in the instant of its launching Stevens' foremost bomb struck its mark and
exploded. So close were the other three bombs, that they also let go at the shock; and the
warlike sphere, hemmed in by four centers of explosions, flew apart--literally pulverized.
Its projectile, so barely discharged, did not explode--it was loaded with material which could
be detonated only by the warhead upon impact or by a radio signal. It was, however, deflected
markedly from its course by the force of the blast, so that instead of striking the Forlorn
Hope in direct central impact, its head merely touched the apex of the mirror-plated wedge.
That touch was enough. There was another appalling concussion, another blinding glare, and
the entire front quarter of the terrestrial vessel had gone to join the shattered globes.

Between the point of explosion and the lifeboats there had been many channels of insulation,
many bulkheads, many air-breaks, and compartment after compartment of accumulator cells. These
had borne the brunt of the explosion, so that the control room was unharmed, and Stevens swung
his communicator rapidly through the damaged portions of the vessels.

"How badly are we hurt, Steve--can we make it to Ganymede?"

Nadia was quietly staring over his shoulder into the plate, studying with him the pictures
of destruction there portrayed as he flashed the projector from compartment to compartment.

"We're hurt--no fooling--but it might have been a lot worse," he replied, as he completed the
survey. "We've lost about all of our accumulators, but we can land on our own beam, and landing
power is all we want, I think. You see, we're drifting straight for where Ganymede will be,
and we'd better cut out every bit of power we're using, even the heaters, until we get there.
This lifeboat will hold heat for quite a while, and I'd rather get pretty cold than meet any
more of that gang. I figured eight hours just before they met us, and we were just about drifting
then. I think it is safe to say seven hours blind."

"But can't they detect us anyway? They may have sent out a call, you know."

"If we aren't using any power for anything, their electr-omagnetics are the only things we'll
register on, and they're mighty short-range finders. Even if they should get that close to
us, they'll probably think we're meteoric, since we'll be dead to their other instruments.
Luckily we've got lots of air, so the chemical purifiers can handle it without power. I'll
shut off everything and we'll drift it. Couldn't do much of anything, anyway--even our shop
out there won't hold air. But we can have light. We've got acetylene emergency lamps, you know,
and we don't need to economize on oxygen."

"Perhaps we'd better run in the dark. Remember what you told me about their possible visirays,
and that you've got only two bombs left."

"All x; that would be better. If I forget it, remind me to blow up those before we hit the
atmosphere of Ganymede, will you?" He opened all the power switches, and, every source of ethereal
vibrations cut off, the Forlorn Hope drifted slowly on, now appearing forlorn indeed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Seven hours dragged past: seven age-long hours during which the two sat tense, expecting they
knew not what, talking only at intervals and in subdued tones. Stevens then snapped on the
communicator beam just long enough to take an observation upon Ganymede. Several such brief
glimpses were taken; then, after a warning word to his companion, he sent out and exploded
the nitrogen bombs. He then threw on the power, and the vessel leaped toward the satellite
under full acceleration. Close to the atmosphere it slanted downward in a screaming, fifteen-hundred-mile
drive; and soon the mangled wedge dropped down into the little canyon, which for so long had
been "home."

"Well, colonel, home again!" Stevens exulted as he neutralized the controls. "There's that
falls, our power plant, the catapults, 'n' everything. Now, unless something interrupts us
again; we'll run up our radio tower and give Brandon the long yell."

"How much more have you got to do before you can start sending?"

"Not an awful lot. Everything built--all I've got to do is assemble it. I should be able to
do it easily in a week. Hope nothing else happens--if I drag you into any more such messes
as those we've just been getting out of by the skin of our teeth, I'll begin to wish that we
had started out at first to drift it back to Tellus in the Hope. Let's see how much time we've
got. We should start shooting one day after an eclipse, so that we'll have five days to send.
You see, we don't want to point our beam too close to Jupiter or to any of the large satellites,
because the enemy might live there and might intercept it. We had an eclipse yesterday--so
one week from today, at sunrise, I start shooting."

"But Earth's an evening star now; you can't see it in the morning."

"I'm not going to aim at Tellus. I'm shooting at Brandon, and he's never there for more than
a week or two at a stretch. They're prowling around out in space somewhere almost all the time."

"Then how can you possibly hope to hit them?"

"It may be quite a job of hunting, but not as bad as you might think. They probably aren't
much, if any, outside the orbit of Mars, and they usually stay within a couple of million kilometers
or so of the Ecliptic, so we'll start at the sun and shoot our beam in a spiral to cover that
field. We ought to be able to hit them inside of twelve hours, but if we don't, we'll widen
our spiral and keep on trying until we do hit them."

"Heavens, Steve! Are you planning on telegraphing steadily for days at a time?"

"Sure, but not by hand, of course--I'll have an automatic sender and automatic pointers."

Stevens had at his command a very complete machine-shop, he had an ample supply of power, and
all that remained for him to do was to assemble the parts which he had built during the long
journey from Titan to Ganymede. Therefore, at sunrise of the designated day, he was ready,
and, with Nadia hanging breathless over his shoulder, he closed the switch, a toothed wheel
engaged a delicate interrupter, and a light sounder began its strident chatter.

"Ganymede point oh four seven ganymede point oh four seven ganymede point oh four seven..."
endlessly the message was poured out into the ether, carried by a tight beam of ultra-vibrations
and driven by forces sufficient to propel it well beyond the opposite limits of the orbit of Mars.

"What does it say? I can't read code."

Stevens translated the brief message, but Nadia remained unimpressed.

"But it doesn't say anything!" she protested. "It isn't addressed to anybody, it isn't signed--it
doesn't tell anybody anything about anything."

"It's all there, ace. You see, since the beam is moving sidewise very rapidly at that range
and we're shooting at a small target, the message has to be very short or they won't get it
all while the beam's on 'em--it isn't as though we were broadcasting. It doesn't need any address,
because nobody but the Sirius can receive it--except possibly the Jovians. They'll know who's
sending it without any signature. It tells them that Ganymede wants to receive a message on
the ultra-band centering on forty-seven thousandths. Isn't that enough?"

"Maybe. But suppose some of them live right here on Ganymede--you'll be shooting right through
the ground all night--or suppose that even if they don't live here, that they can find our
beam some way? Or suppose that Brandon hasn't got his machine built yet, or suppose that it
isn't turned on when our beam passes them, or suppose they're asleep then? A lot of things
might happen."

"Not so many, ace--your first objection is the only one that hasn't got more holes in it than
a sieve, so I'll take it first. Since our beam is only a meter in diameter here and doesn't
spread much in the first few million kilometers, the chance of direct reception by the enemy,
even if they do live here on Ganymede, is infinitesimally small. But I don't believe that they
live here--at least, they certainly didn't land on this satellite. As you suggest, however,
it is conceivable that they may have detector screens delicate enough to locate our beam at
a distance; but since in all probability that means a distance of hundreds of thousands of
kilometers, I think it highly improbable. We've got to take the same risk anyway, no matter
what we do, whenever we start to use any kind of driving power, so there's no use worrying
about it. As for your last two objections, I know Brandon and I know Westfall. Brandon will
have receivers built that will take in any wave possible of propagation, and Westfall, the
cautious old egg, will have them running twenty-four hours a day, with automatic recorders,
finders, and everything else that Brandon can invent--and believe me, sweetheart, that's a
lot of stuff!"

"It's wonderful, the way you three men are," replied Nadia thoughtfully, reading between the
lines of Stevens' utterance. "They knew that you were on the Arcturus, of course--and they
knew that if you were alive you'd manage in some way to get in touch with them. And you, away
out here after all this time, are superbly confident that they are expecting a call from you.
That, I think, is one of the finest things I ever heard of."

"They're two of the world's best--absolutely." Nadia looked at him, surprised, for he had not
seen anything complimentary to himself in her remark. "Wait until you meet them. They're men,
Nadia--real men. And speaking of meeting them--please try to keep on loving me after you meet
Norm Brandon, will you?"

"Don't be a simp!" her brown eyes met his steadily. "You didn't mean that--you didn't even
say it, did you?"

"Back it comes, sweetheart! But knowing myself and knowing those two...."

"Stop it! If Norman Brandon or Quincy Westfall had been here instead of you, or both of them
together, we'd have been here from now on--we wouldn't even have gotten away from the Jovians!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Now it's your turn to back water, guy!"

"Well, maybe, a little--if both of them were here, they ought to equal you in some things.
Brandon says himself that he and Westfall together make one scientist--Dad says he says so."

"You don't want to believe everything you hear. Neither of them will admit that he knows anything
or can do anything--that's the way they are."

"Dad has told me a lot about them--how they've always been together ever since their undergraduate
days. How they studied together all over the world, even after they'd been given all the degrees
loose. How they even went to the other planets to study--to Mars, where they had to live in
space-suits all the time, and to Venus, where they had to take ultra-violet treatments every
day to keep alive. How they learned everything that everybody else knew and then went out into
space to find out things that nobody else ever dreamed of. How you came to join them, and what
you three have done since. They're fine, of course--but they aren't you," she concluded passionately.

"No, thank Heaven! I know you love me, Nadia, just as I love you--you know I never doubted
it. But you'll like them, really. They're a wonderful team. Brandon's a big brute, you know--fully
five centimeters taller than I am, and he weighs close to a hundred kilograms--and no lard,
either. He's wild, impetuous, always jumping at conclusions and working out theories that seem
absolutely ridiculous, but they're usually sound, even though impractical. Westfall's the practical
member--he makes Norm pipe down, pins him down to facts, and makes it possible to put his hunches
and wild flashes of genius into workable form. Quince is a...."

"Now you pipe down! I've heard you rave so much about those two--I'd lots rather rave about
you, and with more reason. I wish that sounder would start sounding."

"Our first message hasn't gone half way yet. It takes about forty minutes for the impulse to
get to where I think they are, so that even if they got the first one and answered it instantly,
it would be eighty minutes before we'd get it. I sort of expect an answer late tonight, but
I won't be disappointed if it takes a week to locate them."

"I will!" declared the girl, and indeed, very little work was done that day by either of the
castaways.

Slowly the day wore on, and the receiving sounder remained silent. Supper was eaten as the
sun dropped low and disappeared, but they felt no desire to sleep. Instead, they went out in
front of the steel wall, where Stevens built a small campfire. Leaning back against the wall
of their vessel, they fell into companionable silence, which was suddenly broken by Stevens.

"Nadia, I just had a thought. I'll bet four dollars I've wasted a lot of time. They'll certainly
have automatic relays on Tellus, to save me the trouble of hunting for them, but like an idiot
I never thought of it until just this minute, in spite of the speech I made you about them.
I'm going to change those directors right now."

"That's quite a job, isn't it?"

"No, only a few minutes."

"Do it in the morning; you've done enough for one day--maybe you've hit them already, any way."

They again became silent, watching Jupiter, an enormous moon some seven degrees in apparent
diameter.

"Steve, I simply can't get used to such a prodigious moon! Look at the stripes, and look at
that perfectly incredible...."

A gong sounded and they both jumped to their feet and raced madly into the Hope. The ultra-receiver
had come to life and the sounder was chattering insanely--someone was sending with terrific
speed, but with perfect definition and spacing.

"That's Brandon's fist--I'd know his style anywhere," Stevens shouted, as he seized notebook
and pencil.

"Tell me what it says, quick, Steve!" Nadia implored.

"Can't talk--read it!" Stevens snapped. His hand was flying over the paper, racing to keep
up with the screaming sounder.

"...ymede all x stevens ganymede all x stevens ganymede all x placing and will keep sirius
on plane between you and tellus circle fifteen forty north going tellus first send full data
spreading beam to cover circle fifteen forty quince suggests possibility this message intercepted
and translated personally I think such translation impossible and that he is wilder than a
hawk but just in case they should be supernaturally intelligent...."

Stevens stopped abruptly and stared at the vociferous sounder.

"Don't stop to listen--keep on writing!" commanded Nadia.

"Can't," replied the puzzled mathematician. "It doesn't make sense. It sounds intelligent--it's
made up of real symbols of some kind or other, but they don't mean a thing to me."

"Oh, I see--he's sending mush on purpose. Read the last phrase!"

"Oh, sure--'mush' is right," and with no perceptible break the signals again became intelligible.

"... if they can translate that they are better scholars than we are signing off until hear
from you brandon."

       *       *       *       *       *

The sounder died abruptly into silence and Nadia sobbed convulsively as she threw herself into
Stevens' arms. The long strain over, the terrible uncertainty at last dispelled, they were
both incoherent for a minute--Nadia glorifying the exploits of her lover, Stevens crediting
the girl herself and his two fellow-scientists with whatever success had been achieved. A measure
of self-control regained, Stevens cut off his automatic sender, changed the adjustments of
his directors and cut in his manually operated sending key.

"What waves are you using, anyway?" asked Nadia, curiously. "They must be even more penetrating
than Roeser's Rays, to have such a range, and Roeser's Rays go right through a planet without
even slowing up."

"They're of the same order as Roeser's--that is, they're sub-electronic waves of the fourth
order--but they're very much shorter, and hence more penetrating. In fact, they're the shortest
waves yet known, so short that Roeser never even suspected their existence."

"Suppose there's a Jovian space-ship out there somewhere that intercepts our beams. Couldn't
they locate us from it?"

"Maybe, and maybe not--we'll just have to take a chance on that. That goes right back to what
we were talking about this morning. They might be anywhere, so the chance of hitting one is
very small. It isn't like hitting the Sirius, because we knew within pretty narrow limits where
to look for her, and even at that we had to hunt for her for half a day before we hit her.
We're probably safe, but even if they should have located us, we'll probably be able to hide
somewhere until the Sirius gets here. Well, the quicker I get busy sending the dope, the sooner
they can get started."

"Tell them to be sure and bring me all my clothes they can find, a gallon of perfume, a barrel
of powder, and a carload of Delray's Fantasie chocolates--I've been a savage so long that I
want to wallow in luxury for a while."

"I'll do that--and I want some real cigarettes!"

Stevens first sent a terse, but complete account of everything that had happened to the Arcturus,
and a brief summary of what he and Nadia had done since the cutting up of the IPV. The narrative
finished, he launched into a prolonged and detailed scientific discussion of the enemy and
their offensive and defensive weapons. He dwelt precisely and at length upon the functioning
of everything he had seen. Though during the long months of their isolation he had been too
busy to do any actual work upon the weapons of the supposed Jovians, yet his keen mind had
evolved many mathematical and physical deductions, hypotheses, and theories, and these he sent
out to the Sirius, concluding:

"There's all the dope I can give you. Figure it out, and don't come at all until you can come
loaded for bear; they're bad medicine. Call us occasionally, to keep us informed as to when
to expect you, but don't call too often. We don't want them locating you, and if they should
locate us through your ray or ours, it would be just too bad. So-long. Stevens and Newton."

Nadia had insisted upon staying up and had been brewing pot after pot of her substitutes for
coffee while he sat at the key; and it was almost daylight when he finally shut off the power
and arose, his right arm practically paralyzed from the unaccustomed strain of hours of telegraphing.

"Well, sweetheart, that's that!" he exclaimed in relief. "Brandon and Westfall are on the job.
Nothing to do now but wait, and study up on our own account on those Jovians' rays. This has
been one long day for us, though, little ace, and I suggest that we sleep for about a week!"

CHAPTER VIII

Callisto to the Rescue

All humanity of Callisto, the fourth major satellite of Jupiter, had for many years been waging
a desperate and apparently hopeless defense against invading hordes of six-limbed beings. Every
city and town had long since been reduced to level fields of lava by the rays of the invaders.
Every building and every trace of human civilization had long since disappeared from the surface
of the satellite. Far below the surface lay the city of Zbardk, the largest of the few remaining
strongholds of the human race. At one portal of the city a torpedo-shaped, stubby-winged rocket
plane rested in the carriage of a catapult. Near it the captain addressed briefly the six men
normally composing his crew.

"Men, you already know that our cruise today is not an ordinary patrol. We are to go to One,
there to destroy a base of the hexans. We have perhaps one chance in ten thousand of returning.
Therefore I am taking only one man--barely enough to operate the plane. Volunteers step one
pace forward."

The six stepped forward as one man, and a smile came over the worn face of their leader as
he watched them draw lots for the privilege of accompanying him to probable death. The two
men entered the body of the torpedo, sealed the openings and waited.

"Free exits?" snapped the Captain of the Portal, and twelve keen-eyed observers studied minutely
screens and instrument panels connected to the powerful automatic lookout stations beneath
the rims of the widely separated volcanic craters from which their craft could issue into Callisto's
somber night.

"No hexan radiation can be detected from Exit Eight," came the report. The Captain of the Portal
raised an arm in warning, threw in the guides, and the two passengers were hurled violently
backward, deep into their cushioned seats, as the catapult shot their plane down the runway.
As the catapult's force was spent automatic trips upon the undercarriage actuated the propelling
rockets and mile after mile, with rapidly mounting velocity, the plane sped through the tube.
As the exit was approached, the tunnel described a long vertical curve, so that when the opening
into the shaft of the crater was reached and the undercarriage was automatically detached,
the vessel was projected almost vertically upward. Such was its velocity and so powerful was
the liquid propellant of its rocket motors, that the eye could not follow the flight of the
warship as it tore through the thin layer of the atmosphere and hurled itself out into the
depths of space.

"Did we get away?" asked the captain, hands upon his controls and eyes upon his moving chart
of space.

"I believe so, sir," answered the other officer, at the screens of the six periscopic devices
which covered the full sphere of vision. "No reports from the rim, and all screens blank."
Once more a vessel had issued from the jealously secret city of Zbardk without betraying its
existence to the hated and feared hexans.

For a time the terrific rocket motors continued the deafening roar of their continuous explosions,
then, the desired velocity having been attained, they were cut out and for hours the good ship
"Bzark" hurtled on through the void at an enormous but constant speed toward the distant world
of One, which it was destined never to reach.

"Captain Czuv! Hexan radiation, coordinates twenty two, fourteen, area six!" cried the observer,
and the commander swung his own telescopic finder into the indicated region. His hands played
over course and distance plotters for a brief minute, and he stared at his results in astonishment.

"I never heard of a hexan traveling that way before," he frowned. "Constant negative acceleration
and in a straight line. He must think that we have been cleared out of the ether. Almost parallel
to us and not much faster--even at this long range, it is an easy kill unless he starts dodging,
as usual."

As he spoke, he snapped a switch and from a port under the starboard wing there shot out into
space a small package of concentrated destruction--a rocket-propelled, radio-controlled torpedo.
The rockets of the tiny missile were flaming, but that flame was visible only from the rear
and no radio beam was upon it. Czuv had given it precisely the direction and acceleration necessary
to make it meet the hexan sphere in central impact, provided that sphere maintained its course
and acceleration unchanged.

"Shall I direct the torpedo in the case the hexan shifts?" asked the officer.

"I think not. They can, of course, detect any wave at almost any distance, and at the first
sign of radioactivity they would locate and destroy the bomb. They also, in all probability,
would destroy us. I would not hesitate to attack them on that account alone, but we must remember
that we are upon a more important mission than attacking one hexan ship. We are far out of
range of their electro-magnetic detectors, and our torpedo will have such a velocity that they
will have no time to protect themselves against it after detection. Unless they shift in the
next few seconds, they are lost. This is the most perfect shot I ever had at one of them, but
one shot is all I dare risk--we must not betray ourselves."

       *       *       *       *       *

Course, lookout, and rank forgotten, the little crew of two stared into the narrow field of
vision, set at its maximum magnification. The instruments showed that the enemy vessel was
staying upon its original course. Very soon the torpedo came within range of the detectors
of the hexans. But as Captain Czuv had foretold, the detection was a fraction of a second too
late, rapidly as their screens responded, and the two men of Zbardk uttered together a short,
fierce cry of joy as a brilliant flash of light announced the annihilation of the hexan vessel.

"But hold!" The observer stared into his screen. "Upon that same line, but now at constant
velocity, there is still a very faint radiation, of a pattern I have never seen before."

"I think ... I believe ..." the captain was studying the pattern, puzzled. "It must be low
frequency, low-tension electricity, which is never used, so far as I know. It may be some new
engine of destruction, which the hexan was towing at such a distance that the explosion of
our torpedo did not destroy it. Since there are no signs of hexan activity and since it will
not take much fuel, we shall investigate that radiation."

Tail and port-side rockets burst into roaring activity and soon the plane was cautiously approaching
the mass of wreckage, which had been the IPV Arcturus.

"Human beings, although of some foreign species!" exclaimed the captain, as his vision-ray
swept through the undamaged upper portion of the great liner and came to rest upon Captain
King at his desk.

Although the upper ultra-lights of the Terrestrial vessel had been cut away by the hexan plane
of force, jury lights had been rigged, and the two commanders were soon trying to communicate
with each other. Intelligible conversation was, of course, impossible, but King soon realized
that the visitors were not enemies. At their pantomimed suggestion he put on a space-suit and
wafted himself over to the airlock of the Callistonian warplane. Inside the central compartment,
the strangers placed over his helmet a heavily wired harness, and he found himself instantly
in full mental communication with the Callistonian commander. For several minutes they stood
silent, exchanging thoughts with a rapidity impossible in any language; then, dressed in space-suits,
both leaped lightly across the narrow gap into the still open outer lock of the terrestrial
liner. King watched Czuv narrowly after the pressure began to collapse his suit, but the stranger
made no sign of distress. He had been right in his assurance that the extra pressure would
scarcely inconvenience him. King tore off his helmet, issued a brief order, and soon every
speaker in the Arcturus announced:

"All passengers and all members of the crew except lookouts on duty will assemble immediately
in Saloon Three to discuss a possible immediate rescue."

The subject being one of paramount interest, it was a matter of minutes until the full complement
of two hundred men and women were in the main saloon, clinging to hastily rigged hand lines,
closely packed before the raised platform upon which were King and Czuv, wired together with
the peculiar Callistonian harness. To most of the passengers, familiar with the humanity of
three planets, the appearance of the stranger brought no surprise; but many of them stared
in undisguised amazement at his childish body, his pale, almost colorless skin, his small,
weak legs and arms, and his massive head.

"Ladies and gentlemen!" Captain King opened the meeting. "I introduce to you Captain Czuv,
of the scout cruiser Bzarvk, of the only human race now living upon the fourth large satellite
of Jupiter, which satellite we know as Callisto. I am avoiding their own names as much as possible,
because they are almost unpronounceable in English or Interplanetarian. This device that you
see connecting us is a Callistonian thought transformer, by means of which any two intelligent
beings can converse without language. Our situation is peculiar, and in order that you may
understand fully what lies ahead of us, the captain will now speak to you, through me--that
is, what follows will be spoken by Captain Czuv, of the Bzarvk, but he will be using my vocal
organs."

"Friends from distant Tellus," King's voice went on, almost without a break, "I greet you.
I am glad, for your sake as well as our own, that your vessel was able to destroy the hexan
ship holding you captive, and whose crew would have killed you all as soon as they had landed
your vessel and had read your minds. I regret bitterly that we can do so little for you, for
only the representatives of a human civilization being exterminated by a race of highly intelligent
monsters can fully realize how desirable it is for all the various races of humanity to assist
and support each other. In order that you may understand the situation, it is necessary that
I delve at some length into ancient history, but we have ample time. In about ..." he broke
off, realizing that the two races had no thought in common in the measure of time.

"One-half time of rotation of Great Planet upon axis?" flashed from Czuv's brain, and "About
five hours," King's mind flashed back.

"It will be about five hours before any steps can be taken, so that I feel justified in using
a brief period for explanation. In the evolution of the various forms of life upon Callisto,
two genera developed intelligence far ahead of all others. One genus was the human, as you
and I; the other the hexan. This creature, happily unknown to you of the planets nearer our
common sun, is the product of an entirely different evolution. It is a six-limbed animal, with
a brain equal to our own--one perhaps in some ways superior to our own. They have nothing in
common with humanity, however; they have few of our traits and fewer of our mental processes.
Even we who have fought them so long can scarcely comprehend the chambers of horror that are
their minds. Even were I able to paint a sufficiently vivid picture with words, you of Earth
could not begin to understand their utter ruthlessness and inhumanity, even among themselves.
You would believe that I was lying, or that my viewpoint was warped. I can say only that I
hope most sincerely that none of you will ever get better acquainted with them."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Ages ago, then, the human and the hexan developed upon all four of the major satellites of
the Great Planet, which you know as Jupiter, and upon the north polar region of Jupiter itself.
By what means the two races came into being upon worlds so widely separated in space we know
not--we only know it to be the fact. Human life, however, could not long endure upon Jupiter.
The various human races, after many attempts to meet conditions of life there by variations
in type fell before the hexans; who, although very small in size upon the planet, thrived there
amazingly. Upon the three outer satellites humanity triumphed, and many hundreds of cycles
ago the hexans of those satellites were wiped out, save for an occasional tribe of savages
of low intelligence who lived in various undesirable portions of the three worlds. For ages
then there was peace upon Callisto. Here is the picture at that time--upon Jupiter the hexans;
upon Io hexans and humans, waging a ceaseless and relentless war of mutual extermination; upon
the three outer satellites humanity in undisturbed and unthreatened peace. Five worlds, each
ignorant of life upon any other.

"As I have said, the hexans of Jupiter were, and are, diabolically intelligent. Driven probably
by their desire to see what lay beyond their atmosphere of eternal cloud, to the penetration
of which their eyesight was attuned, they developed the space-ship; and effected a safe landing,
first upon the barren, airless moonlet nearest them, and then upon fruitful Io. There they
made common cause with the hexans against the humans, and in space of time Ionian humanity
ceased to exist. Much traffic and interbreeding followed between the hexans of Jupiter and
those of Io, resulting in time in a race intermediate in size between the parent stocks and
equally at home in the widely variant air pressures and gravities of planet and satellite.
Soon their astronomical instruments revealed the cities of Europa to their gaze, and as soon
as they discovered that the civilization of Europa was human, they destroyed it utterly, with
the insatiable blood lust that is their heritage.

"In the meantime the human civilizations of Ganymede and Callisto had also developed instruments
of power. Observing the cities upon the other satellites, many scientists studied intensively
the problem of space navigation, and finally there was some commerce between the two outer
satellites at favorable times. Finally, vessels were also sent to Io and to Europa, but none
of them returned. Knowing then what to expect, Ganymede and Callisto joined forces and prepared
for war. But our science, so long attuned to the arts of peace, had fallen behind lamentably
in the devising of more and ever more deadly instruments of destruction. Ganymede fell, and
in her fall we read our own doom. Abandoning our cities, we built anew underground. Profiting
from lessons learned full bloodily upon Ganymede, we resolved to prolong the existence of the
human race as long as possible.

"The hexans were, and are masters of the physical science. They command the spectrum in a way
undreamed of. Their detectors reveal etheric disturbances at unbelievable distances, and they
have at their beck and call forces of staggering magnitude. Therefore in our cities is no electricity
save that which is wired, shielded, and grounded; no broadcast radio; no source whatever of
etheric disturbances save light--and our walls are fields of force which we believe to be impenetrable
to any searching frequency capable of being generated. Now I am able to picture to you the present.

"We are the last representatives of the human race in the Jovian planetary system. Our every
trace upon the surface has been obliterated. We are hiding in our holes in the ground, coming
out at night by stealth so that our burrows shall not be revealed to the hexans. We are fighting
for time in which our scientists may learn the secrets of power--and fearing, each new day,
that the enemy may have so perfected their systems of rays that they will be able to detect
us and destroy us, even in our underground and heavily shielded retreats, by means of forces
even more incomprehensible than those they are now employing.

"Therefore, friends, you see how little we are able to do for you, we a race fighting for our
very existence and doomed to extinction save for a miracle. We cannot take you to Callisto,
for it is besieged by the hexans and the driving forces of your lifeboats, practically broadcast
as they are, would be detected and we should all be destroyed long before we could reach safety.
Captain King and I have pondered long and have been able to see only one course of action.
We are drifting at constant velocity, using no power, and with all save the most vitally necessary
machinery at rest. Thus only may we hope to avoid detection during the next two hours.

"Our present course will take us very close to Europa, which the hexans believe to be like
Ganymede, entirely devoid of civilized life. Its original humanity was totally destroyed, and
all its civilized hexans are finding shelter from our torpedoes upon Jupiter until we of Callisto
shall likewise have been annihilated. The temperature of Europa will suit you. Its atmosphere,
while less dense than that to which you are accustomed, will adequately support your life.
If we are not detected in the course of the next few hours we can probably land upon Europa
in safety, since its neighborhood is guarded but loosely. In fact, we have a city there, as
yet unsuspected by the hexans, in which our scientists will continue to labor after Callisto's
civilization shall have disappeared. We think that it will be safe to use your power for the
short time necessary to effect a landing. We shall land in a cavern, in a crater already in
communication with our city. In that cavern, instructed and aided by some of us, you will build
a rocket vessel--no rays can be used because of the hexans--in which you will be able to travel
to a region close enough to your earth so that you can call for help. You will not be able
to carry enough fuel to land there--in fact, nearly all the journey will have to be made without
power, traveling freely in a highly elongated orbit around the sun--but if you escape the hexans,
you should be able to reach home safely, in time. It is for the consideration of this plan
that this meeting has been called."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Just one question," Breckenridge spoke. "The hexans are intelligent. Why are they leaving
Europa and Ganymede so unguarded that human beings can move back there and that we can land
there, all undetected?"

"I will answer that question myself," replied King. "Captain Czuv did not quite do justice
to his own people. It is true that they are being conquered, but for every human life that
is taken, a thousand hexans die, and for every human ship that is lost, twenty hexan vessels
are annihilated in return. While the hexans are masters of rays, the humans are equally masters
of explosives and of mechanisms. They can hit a perfect score upon any target in free space
whose course and acceleration can be determined, at any range up to five thousand kilometers,
and they have explosives thousands of times as powerful as any known to us. Ray screens are
effective only against rays, and the hexans cannot destroy anything they cannot see before
it strikes them. So it is that all the hexan vessels except those necessary to protect their
own strongholds, are being concentrated against Callisto. They cannot spare vessels to guard
uselessly the abandoned satellites. Because of the enormously high gravity of Jupiter the hexans
there are safe from human attack save for ineffectual long-range bombardment, but Io is being
attacked constantly and it is probable that in a few more years Io also will be an abandoned
world. Some of you may have received the impressions that the hexans are to triumph immediately,
but such an idea is wrong. The humans can, and will, hold out for a hundred years or more unless
the enemy perfects a destructive ray of the type referred to. Even then, I think that our human
cousins will hold out a long time. They are able men, fighters all, and their underground cities
are beautifully protected."

There was little argument. Most of the auditors could understand that the suggested course
was the best one possible. The remainder were so stunned by the unbelievable events of the
attack that they had no initiative, but were willing to follow wherever the more valiant spirits
led. It was decided that no attempt should be made to salvage any portion of the Arcturus,
since any such attempt would be fraught with danger and since the wreckage would be of little
value. The new vessel was to be rocket driven and was to be built of Callistonian alloys. Personal
belongings were moved into lifeboats, doors were closed, and there ensued a painful period
of waiting and suspense.

The stated hour was reached without event--no hexan scout had come close enough to them to
detect the low-tension radiation of the vital machinery of the Arcturus, cut as it was to the
irreducible minimum and quite effectively grounded as it was by the enormous mass of her shielding
armor. At a signal from Captain Czuv the pilot of each lifeboat shot his tiny craft out into
space and took his allotted place in the formation following closely behind the Bzarvk, flying
toward Europa, now so large in the field of vision that she resembled more a world than a moon.
Captain King, in the Callistonian vessel, transmitted to Breckenridge the route and flight
data given him by the navigator of the winged craft. The chief pilot, flying "point," in turn
relayed more detailed instructions to the less experienced pilots of the other lifeboats.

Soon the surface of Europa lay beneath them; a rugged, cratered, and torn topography of mighty
ranges of volcanic mountains. Most of the craters were cold and lifeless; but here and there
a plume of smoke and steam betrayed the presence of vast, quiescent forces. Straight down one
of those gigantic lifeless shafts the fleet of space craft dropped--straight down a full two
miles before the landing signal was given. At the bottom of the shaft a section of the rocky
wall swung aside, revealing the yawning black mouth of a horizontal tunnel. At intervals upon
its roof there winked into being almost invisible points of light. Along that line of lights
the lifeboats felt their way, coming finally into a huge cavern, against one sheer metal wall
of which they parked in an orderly row. Roll was called, and the terrestrials walked, as well
as they could in the feeble gravity of the satellite, across the vast chamber and into a conveyance
somewhat resembling a railway coach, which darted away as soon as the doors were shut. For
hundreds of miles that strange tunnel extended, and as the car shot along door after door of
natural rock opened before it, and closed as soon as it had sped through. In spite of the high
velocity of the vehicle, it required almost two hours to complete the journey. Finally, however,
it slowed to a halt and the Terrestrial visitors disembarked at a portal of the European city
of the Callistonians.

"Attention!" barked Captain King. "The name of this city, as nearly as I can come to it in
English, is WRUZK. 'Roosk' comes fairly close to it and is easier to pronounce. We must finish
our trip in small cars, holding ten persons each. We shall assemble again in the building in
which we have been assigned quarters. The driver of each car will lead his passengers to the
council room in which we shall meet."

"Oh, what's the use--this is horrible, horrible--we might as well die!" a nervous woman shrieked,
and fainted.

"Such a feeling is, perhaps, natural," King went on, after the woman had been revived and quiet
had been restored, "but please control it as much as possible. We are alive and well, and will
be able to return to Tellus eventually. Please remember that these people are putting themselves
to much trouble and inconvenience to help us, desperate as their own situation is, and conduct
yourselves accordingly."

The rebuke had its effect, and with no further protest the company boarded the small cars,
which shot through an opening in the wall and into a street of that strange subterranean city.
Breckenridge, in the last car to leave the portal, studied his surroundings with interest as
his conveyance darted through the gateway. More or less a fatalist by nature and an adventurer,
of course, since no other type existed among the older spacehounds of the IPC, he was intensely
interested in every new phase of their experience, and was no whit dismayed or frightened.

       *       *       *       *       *

He found himself seated in a narrow canoe of metal, immediately behind the pilot, who sat at
a small control panel in the bow. Propelled by electro-magnetic fields above a single rail,
upon lightly touching and noiseless wheels, the terrestrial pilot saw with keen appreciation
the manner in which switch after switch ahead of them obeyed the impulses sent ahead from the
speeding car. The streets were narrow and filled with monorails; pedestrians pursued their
courses upon walks attached to the walls of the buildings, far above the level of the streets.
The walls were themselves peculiar, rising as they did stark, unbroken, windowless expanses
of metal, merging into and supporting a massive roof of the same silvery metal. Walls and roof
alike reflected a soft, yet intense, white light. Soon a sliding switch ahead of them shot
in and simultaneously an opening appeared in the blank metal wall of a building. Through the
opening the street-car flew, and as the pilot slowed the canoe to a halt, the door slid smoothly
shut behind them. Parking the car beside a row of its fellows, the Callistonian driver indicated
that the Terrestrials were to follow him and led the way into a large hall. There the others
from the Arcturus were assembled, facing Captain King, who was standing upon a table.

"Fellow travelers," King addressed them, "our course of action has been decided. There are
two hundred three of us. There will be twenty sections of ten persons, each section being in
charge of one of the officers of the Arcturus. Doctor Penfield, our surgeon, a man whose intelligence,
fairness, and integrity are unquestioned, will be in supreme command. His power and authority
will be absolute, limited only by the Callistonian Council. He will work in harmony with the
engineer, who is to direct the entire project of building the new vessel. Each of you will
be expected to do whatever he can--the work you will be asked to do will be well within your
powers, and you will each have ample leisure for recreation, study, and amusement, of all of
which you will find unsuspected stores in this underground community. You will each be registered
and studied by physicians, surgeons, and psychologists; and each of you will have prescribed
for him the exact diet that is necessary for his best development. You will find this diet
somewhat monotonous, compared to our normal fare of natural products, since it is wholly synthetic;
but that is one of the minor drawbacks that must be endured. Chief Pilot Breckenridge and I
will not be with you. In some small and partial recompense for what they are doing for us all,
he and I are going with Captain Czuv to Callisto, there to see whether or not we can aid them
in any way in the fight against the hexans. One last word--Doctor Penfield's rulings will be
the products of his own well-ordered mind after consultation and agreement with the Council
of this city, and will be for the best good of all. I do not anticipate any refusal to cooperate
with him. If, however, such refusal should occur, please remember that he is a despot with
absolute power, and that anyone obstructing the program by refusing to follow his suggestions
will spend the rest of his time here in confinement and will go back to Tellus in irons, if
at all. In case Chief Pilot Breckenridge and I should not see you again, we bid you goodbye
and wish you a safe voyage--but we expect to go back with you."

Brief farewells were said and captain and pilot accompanied Czuv to one of the little street-cars.
Out of the building it dashed and down the crowded but noiseless thoroughfare to the portal.
Signal lights flashed briefly there and they did not stop, but tore on through the portal and
the tunnel, with increasing speed.

"Don't have to transfer to a big car, then?" asked Breckenridge.

"No," King made answer. "Small cars can travel these tubes as well as the large ones, and on
much less power. In the city the wheels touch the rails lightly, not for support, but to make
contacts through which traffic signals are sent and received. In the tunnels the wheels do
not touch at all, as signaling is unnecessary--the tunnels being used infrequently and by but
one vehicle at a time. No trolleys, tracks, or wires are visible, you notice. Everything is
hidden from any possible visiray of the hexans."

"How about their power?"

"I don't understand it very well--hardly at all, in fact."

"It is quite simple." To the surprise of both Terrestrials, Czuv was speaking English, but
with a strong and very peculiar accent; slighting all the vowels and accenting heavily the
consonant sounds. "The car no longer requires my attention, so I am now free to converse. You
are surprised at my knowing your language? You will speak mine after a few more applications
of the thought exchanger. I am speaking with a vile accent, of course, but that is merely because
my vocal organs are not accustomed to making vowel sounds. Our power is obtained by the combustion
of gases in highly efficient turbines. It is transmitted and used as direct current, our generator
and motors being so constructed that they can produce no etheric disturbances capable of penetrating
the shielding walls of our city. The city was built close to deposits of coal, oil, and gas
of sufficient amount to support our life for thousands of years; for from these deposits come
power, food, clothing, and all the other necessities and luxuries of our lives. Strong fans
draw air from various extinct craters, force it through ventilating ducts into every room and
recess of the city, and exhaust it into the shaft of a quiescent volcano, in whose gaseous
outflow any trace of our activities is, of course, imperceptible. For obvious reasons no rockets
or combustion motors are used in the city proper."

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus Captain Czuv explained to the Terrestrials his own mode of life, and received from them
in turn full information concerning Earthly life, activity, and science. Long they talked,
and it was almost time to slow down for the journey's end when the Callistonian brought the
conversation back to their immediate concerns.

"My lieutenant and I were upon a mission of some importance, but it is more important to take
you to Callisto, for there may be many things in which you can help us. Not in rays--we know
all the vibrations you have mentioned and several others. The enemy, however, is supreme in
that field, and until our scientists have succeeded in developing ray-screens, such as are
used by the hexans, it would be suicidal to use rays at all. Such screens necessitate the projection
of pure, yet dirigible, forces--you do not have them upon your planet?"

"No, and so far as I know such screens are also unknown upon Mars and Venus, with whose inhabitants
we are friendly."

"The inhabitants of all the planets should be friendly; the solar system should be linked together
in intercourse for common advancement. But that is not to be. The hexans will eventually triumph
here, and a Jovian system peopled by hexans will have no intercourse with any human civilization
save that of internecine war. We, of Callisto, have only one hope--or is it really a hope?
In the South Polar country of Jupiter, there dwells a race of beings implacably hostile to
the hexans. They seem to invade the country of the hexans frequently, even though they are
apparently repulsed each time. Our emissaries to the South Polar country, however, have never
returned--those beings, whatever they are, if not actively inimical, certainly are not friendly
toward us."

"You know nothing of their nature?"

"Nothing, since our electrical instruments are not sufficiently sensitive to give us more than
a general idea of what is transpiring there, and vision is practically useless in that eternal
fog. We know, however, that they are far advanced in science, and we are thankful indeed that
none of their frightful flying fortresses have been launched against us. They apparently are
not interested in the satellites, and it is no doubt due to their unintentional assistance
that we have survived as long as we have."

In the cavern at last, the three men boarded the Callistonian space-plane and were shot up
the crater's shaft. The voyage to Callisto was uneventful, even uninteresting save at its termination.
The Bzarvk, coated every inch as it was with a dull, dead black, completely absorptive outer
coating, entered the thin layer of Callisto's atmosphere in darkest night, with all rockets
dead, with not a light showing, and with no apparatus of any kind functioning. Utterly invisible
and undetectable, she dove downward, and not until she was well below the crater's rim did
the forward rockets burst into furious life. Then the Terrestrials understood another reason
for the immense depth of those shafts other than that of protection from the detectors of the
enemy--all that distance was necessary to overcome the velocity of their free fall without
employing a negative acceleration greater than the frail Callistonian bodies could endure.
From the cavern at the foot of the shaft, a regulation tunnel extended to the Callistonian
city of Zbardk. Portal and city were very like Wruszk, upon distant Europa, and soon the terrestrial
captain and pilot were in conference with the Council of Callisto.

       *       *       *       *       *

Months of Earthly time dragged slowly past, months during which King and Breckenridge studied
intensively the offensive and defensive systems of Callisto without finding any particular
in which they could improve them to any considerable degree. Captain Czuv and his warplane
still survived, and it was while the Callistonian commander was visiting his terrestrial guests,
that King voiced the discontent that had long affected both men.

"We're both tired of doing nothing, Czuv. We have been of little real benefit, and we have
decided that your ideas of us are all wrong. We are convinced that our personal horsepower
can be of vastly more use to you than our brain-power, which doesn't amount to much. Your whole
present policy is one of hiding and sniping. I think that I know why, but I want to be sure.
Your vessels carry lots of fuel--why can the hexans outrun you?" Thus did King put his problem.

"They can stand enormously higher accelerations than we can. The very strongest of us loses
consciousness at an acceleration of twenty-five meters per second per second, no matter how
he is braced, and that is only a little greater than the normal gravity of our enemies upon
Jupiter. Their vessels at highest power develop an acceleration of thirty-five meters, and
the hexans themselves can stand much more than even that high figure," replied Czuv.

"I thought so. Assume that you traveled at forty-five. Would it disable you permanently, or
would you recover as soon as it was lowered?"

"We would recover promptly, unless the exposure had been unduly prolonged. Why?"

"Because," said King, "I can stand an acceleration of fifty-four meters for two hours, and
Breckenridge here tests fifty two meters. I can navigate anything, and Breckenridge can observe
as well as any of your own men. Build a plane to accelerate at forty-five meters and we will
blow those hexans out of the ether. You will have to revive and do the shooting, however--your
gunnery is entirely beyond us."

"That is an idea of promise, and one that had not occurred to any of us," Czuv replied and
work was begun at once upon the new flyer.

When the super-plane was ready for its maiden voyage, its crew of three studied it as it lay
in the catapult at the portal. Dead black as were all the warplanes, its body was twice as
large as that of the ordinary vessel, its wings were even more stubby, and its accommodations
had been cut to a minimum to make room for the enormous stores of fuel necessary to drive the
greatly increased battery of rocket motors and for the extra supply of torpedoes carried. Waving
to the group of soldiers and citizens gathered to witness the take-off of the new dreadnought
of space, the three men entered the cramped operating compartment, strapped themselves into
their seats, and were shot away. As usual the driving rockets were cut off well below the rim
of the shaft, and the vessel rose in a long and graceful curve, invisible in the night. Such
was its initial velocity and so slight was the force of gravity of the satellite that they
were many hundreds of miles from the exit before they began to descend, and Breckenridge studied
his screens narrowly for signs of hexan activity.

"Do you want to try one of your long-range shots when we find one of them?" the pilot asked Czuv.

"No, it would be useless. Between deflection by air-currents and the dodging of the enemy vessels,
our effective range is shortened to a few kilometers, and their beams are deadly at that distance.
No, our best course is to follow the original plan--to lure them out into space at uniform
acceleration, where we can destroy them easily."

"Right," and Breckenridge turned to King, who was frowning at his controls. "How does she work
on a dead stick, Chief?"

"Maneuverability about minus ten at this speed and in this air. She'd have to have at least
fifteen hundred kilometers an hour to be responsive out here. See anything yet?"

"Not yet ... wait a minute! Yes, there's one now--P-12 on area five. Give us all the X10 and
W27 you can, without using power--we want to edge over close enough so that she can't help
but see us when we start the rockets."

"Be sure and stay well out of range. I'm giving her all she'll take, but she won't take much.
With these wings she has the gliding angle of a kitchen sink."

"All x--I'm watching the range, close. Wish we had instruments like these on the IPV's. We'll
have to install some when we get back. All x! Give her the gun--level and dead ahead!"

Half the battery of rockets burst into their stuttering, explosive roar of power and the vessel
darted away in headlong flight.

"He sees us and is after us--turn her straight up!"

A searing, coruscating finger of flame leaped toward them, but their calculations had been
sound--the hexan was harmless at that extreme range. King, under the pilot's direction, kept
the plane at a safe distance from the sphere while the satellite grew smaller and smaller behind
them and Czuv lapsed quietly into unconsciousness.

"He's been out for quite a while. Far enough?" asked King.

"All x now, I guess--don't believe they can see the flash from here. Cut!"

The rockets died abruptly and a blast from the side ports threw the plane out of the beam--and
once out of it, beyond range of the electro-magnetic detectors as they were their coating of
absolute black rendered the craft safe from observation. One dirigible rocket remained in action,
its exhaust hidden from the enemy by the body of the vessel, and Captain Czuv soon recovered
his senses.

"Wonderful, gentlemen!" he exclaimed, as he manipulated the delicate controls of his gunnery
panel. "This is the first time in history that a Callistonian vessel has escaped from a hexan
by speed alone."

An instantaneously extinguished flare of incandescence marked the passing of the hexan sphere
into nothingness, and the cruiser shot back toward Callisto in search of more prey. It was
all too plentiful, and twenty times the drama was reenacted before approaching day made it
necessary for Czuv to take the controls and dive the vessel into the westermost landing-shaft
of Zbardk. A rousing and enthusiastic welcome awaited them, and joy spread rapidly when their
success became known.

"Now we know what to do, and we had better do it immediately, before they get our system figured
out and increase their own power." King reported to the Council. "You might send a couple of
ships to Europa and bring back as many of the Tellurian officers as want to come and can be
spared from the work there. They all test above forty-five meters, and they can learn this
stuff in short order. While they're coming, your engineers can be building more ships like
this one."

The new vessel did not make another voyage until nine sister ships were ready and manned, each
with two Terrestrial officers and one Callistonian gunner. All ten took to the ether at once,
and the hexan fleet melted away like frost-crystals before a summer sun. A few weeks of carnage
and destruction and not a hexan was within range of the detectors of Callisto--they were gone!

"This is the first time in years that Callisto's air has been free of the hexans," Czuv said,
thoughtfully. "With your help we have reduced their strength to a fraction of what it was,
but they have not given up. They will return, with a higher acceleration than even you Terrestrials,
powerful as you are, can stand."

"Certainly they will, but you will be no worse off than you were before--you can return to
your own highly effective tactics."

"We are infinitely better off for your help. You have given us a new lease on life...."

He broke off as a flaring light sprang into being upon the portal board and the observer of
Exit One made his report--there was a hexan vessel in the air, location 425 over VJ-42.

"There's one left! Let us get him! No, he's ours!" Confused shouts arose from the bull-pen;
but the original superplane was at the top of the call-board and accordingly King, Breckenridge,
and Czuv embarked upon an expedition more hazardous far than they had supposed--an expedition
whose every feature was relayed to those in the portal by the automatic lookouts upon the rims
and which was ended before a single supporting Callistonian plane could be launched.

For the enemy vessel was not the last of the low-powered hexan vessels, as everyone had supposed--it
was the first of the high-powered craft, arriving long before its appearance was expected.
Before its terrific acceleration and savage onslaught, the superplane might as well have been
stationary and unarmed. After his long dive downward, King could not even leave the atmosphere--the
hexan was upon them within a few seconds, even though the stupendous battery of rockets, full
driven, had roared almost instantly into desperate action. Bomb after bomb Breckenridge hurled,
with full radio control, fighting with every resource at his command, but in vain. The frightful
torpedoes were annihilated in mid-flight; and nose, tail-assembly, and wings were sheared neatly
from the warplane by a sizzling plane of force. Side rockets and torpedo tubes were likewise
sliced away and the helpless body of the Callistonian cruiser, falling like a plummet, was
caught and held by a tractor ray. Captor and captive settled toward the ground.

