The widow gave a great gasp and a sigh as she looked at the young champion and his victim.
She must have suffered terribly during the few minutes of the boys' absence; and the stripes
which she imagined had been inflicted on the elder had smitten her own heart. She longed to
take both boys to it. She was not angry now. Very likely she was delighted with the thought
of the younger's prowess and generosity. "You are a very naughty, disobedient child," she said
in an exceedingly peaceable voice. "My poor Mr. Ward! What a rebel to strike you! Let me bathe
your wound, my good Mr. Ward, and thank Heaven it was no worse. Mountain! Go fetch me some
court-plaster. Here comes George. Put on your coat and waistcoat, child! You were going to
take your punishment, sir, and that is sufficient. Ask pardon, Harry, of good Mr. Ward, for
your wicked, rebellious spirit. I do, with all my heart, I am sure. And guard against your
passionate nature, child, and pray to be forgiven. My son, oh my son!"

Here with a burst of tears which she could no longer control the little woman threw herself
on the neck of her first born, whilst Harry went up very feebly to Mr. Ward, and said, "Indeed,
I ask your pardon, sir. I couldn't help it; on my honour, I couldn't; nor bear to see my brother
struck."

The widow was scared, as after her embrace she looked up at George's pale face. In reply to
her eager caresses, he coldly kissed her on the forehead, and separated from her. "You meant
for the best, mother," he said, "and I was in the wrong. But the cup is broken; and all the
king's horses and all the king's men cannot mend it. There--put the fair side outwards on the
mantelpiece, and the wound will not show."

Then George went up to Mr. Ward, who was still piteously bathing his eye and forehead in the
water. "I ask pardon for Hal's violence, sir," he said in great state. "You see, though we
are very young, we are gentlemen, and cannot brook an insult from strangers. I should have
submitted, as it was mamma's desire; but I am glad she no longer entertains it."

"And pray, sir, who is to compensate me?" says Mr. Ward; "who is to repair the insult done to me?"

"We are very young," says George, with another of his old-fashioned bows. "We shall be fifteen
soon. Any compensation that is usual amongst gentlemen--"

"This, sir, to a minister of the Word!" bawls out Ward, starting up, and who knew perfectly
well the lad's skill in fence, having a score of times been foiled by the pair of them.

"You are not a clergyman yet. We thought you might like to be considered as a gentleman. We
did not know."

"A gentleman! I am a Christian, sir!" says Ward, glaring furiously, and clenching his great fists.

"Well, well, if you won't fight, why don't you forgive?" says Harry. "If you won't forgive,
why don't you fight? That's what I call the horns of a dilemma." And he laughed his jolly laugh.

But this was nothing to the laugh a few days afterwards, when, the quarrel having been patched
up along with poor Mr. Ward's eye, the unlucky tutor was holding forth according to his custom,
but in vain. The widow wept no more at his harangues, was no longer excited by his eloquence.
Nay, she pleaded headache, and would absent herself of an evening, on which occasions the remainder
of the little congregation were very cold indeed. One day Ward, still making desperate efforts
to get back his despised authority, was preaching on the necessity of obeying our spiritual
and temporal rulers. "For why, my dear friends," he asked, "why are the governors appointed,
but that we should be governed? Why are tutors engaged, but that children should be taught?"
(Here a look at the boys.) "Why are rulers--" Here he paused, looking with a sad, puzzled face
at the young gentlemen. He saw in their countenances the double meaning of the unlucky word
he had uttered, and stammered and thumped the table with his fist. "Why, I say are rulers--rulers--"

"Rulers," says George, looking at Harry.

"Rulers!" says Hal, putting his hand to his eye, where the poor tutor still bore marks of the
late scuffle. "Rulers, o-ho!" It was too much. The boys burst out in an explosion of laughter.
Mrs. Mountain, who was full of fun, could not help joining in the chorus; and little Fanny
Mountain, who had always behaved very demurely and silently at these ceremonies, crowed again,
and clapped her little hands at the others laughing, not in the least knowing the reason why.

This could not be borne. Ward shut down the book before him; in a few angry but eloquent and
manly words said he would speak no more in that place; and left Castlewood not in the least
regretted by Madame Esmond, who had doted on him three months before.

After the departure of her unfortunate spiritual adviser and chaplain, Madame Esmond and her
son seemed to be quite reconciled: but although George never spoke of the quarrel with his
mother, it must have weighed upon the boy's mind very painfully, for he had a fever soon after
the last recounted domestic occurrences, during which illness his brain once or twice wandered,
when he shrieked out, "Broken! Broken! It never, never, can be mended!" to the silent terror
of his mother, who sat watching the poor child as he tossed wakeful upon his midnight bed.
That night, and for some days afterwards, it seemed very likely that poor Harry would become
heir of Castlewood; but by Mr. Dempster's skilful treatment the fever was got over, the intermittent
attacks diminished in intensity, and George was restored almost to health again. A change of
air, a voyage even to England, was recommended, but the widow had quarrelled with her children's
relatives there, which made that trip impossible. A journey to the north and east was determined
upon, and the two young gentleman, with Mr. Dempster reinstated as their tutor, and a couple
of servants to attend them, took a voyage to New York, and thence up the beautiful Hudson River
to Albany, where they were received by the first gentry of the province; and thence into the
French provinces, where they were hospitably entertained by the French gentry. Harry camped
with the Indians and took furs and shot bears. George, who never cared for field sports, and
whose health was still delicate, was a special favourite with the French ladies, who were accustomed
to see very few young English gentlemen speaking the French language so readily as our young
gentleman. He danced the minuet elegantly. He learned the latest imported French catches and
songs and played them beautifully on his violin; and to the envy of poor Harry, who was absent
on a bear-hunt, he even had an affair of honour with a young ensign, whom he pinked on the
shoulder, and with whom he afterwards swore an eternal friendship.

When the lads returned home at the end of ten delightful months, their mother was surprised
at their growth and improvement. George especially was so grown as to come up to his younger-born
brother. The boys could hardly be distinguished one from another, especially when their hair
was powdered; but that ceremony being too cumbrous for country-life, each of the lads commonly
wore his own hair, George his raven black, and Harry his light locks, tied with a ribbon.

Now Mrs. Mountain had a great turn for match-making, and fancied that everybody had a design
to marry everybody else. As a consequence of this weakness she was able to persuade George
Warrington that Mr. Washington was laying siege to Madame Esmond's heart, which idea was anything
but agreeable to George's jealous disposition.

"I beg you to keep this quiet, Mountain," said George, with great dignity. "Or you and I shall
quarrel, too. Never to any one must you mention such an absurd suspicion."

"Absurd! Why absurd? Mr. Washington is constantly with the widow. She never tires of pointing
out his virtues as an example to her sons. She consults him on every question respecting her
estate and its management. There is a room at Castlewood regularly called Mr. Washington's
room. He actually leaves his clothes here, and his portmanteau when he goes away. Ah, George,
George! The day will come when he won't go away!" groaned Mrs. Mountain, and in consequence
of the suspicions which her words aroused in him Mr. George adopted toward his mother's favourite
a frigid courtesy, at which the honest gentleman chafed but did not care to remonstrate; or
a stinging sarcasm which he would break through as he would burst through so many brambles
on those hunting excursions in which he and Harry Warrington rode so constantly together; while
George, retreating to his tents, read mathematics and French and Latin, or sulked in his book-room.

Harry was away from home with some other sporting friends when Mr. Washington came to pay a
visit at Castlewood. He was so peculiarly tender and kind to the mistress there, and received
by her with such special cordiality, that George Warrington's jealousy had well-nigh broken
out into open rupture. But the visit was one of adieu, as it appeared. Major Washington was
going on a long and dangerous journey, quite to the western Virginia frontier and beyond it.
The French had been for some time past making inroads into our territory. The government at
home, as well as those of Virginia and Pennsylvania, were alarmed at this aggressive spirit
of the lords of Canada and Louisiana. Some of our settlers had already been driven from their
holdings by Frenchmen in arms, and the governors of the British provinces were desirous of
stopping their incursions, or at any rate to protest against their invasion.

We chose to hold our American colonies by a law that was at least convenient for its framers.
The maxim was, that whoever possessed the coast had a right to all the territory in hand as
far as the Pacific; so that the British charters only laid down the limits of the colonies
from north to south, leaving them quite free from east to west. The French, meanwhile, had
their colonies to the north and south, and aimed at connecting them by the Mississippi and
the St. Lawrence, and the great intermediate lakes and waters lying to the westward of the
British possessions. In the year 1748, though peace was signed between the two European kingdoms,
the colonial question remained unsettled, to be opened again when either party should be strong
enough to urge it. In the year 1753 it came to an issue on the Ohio River where the British
and French settlers met.

A company called the Ohio Company, having grants from the Virginia government of lands along
that river, found themselves invaded in their settlement's by French military detachments,
who roughly ejected the Britons from their holdings. These latter applied for protection to
Mr. Dinwiddie, lieutenant governor of Virginia, who determined upon sending an ambassador to
the French commanding officer on the Ohio demanding that the French should desist from their
inroads upon the territories of his Majesty King George.

Young Mr. Washington jumped eagerly at the chance of distinction which this service afforded
him, and volunteered to leave his home and his rural and professional pursuits in Virginia,
to carry the governor's message to the French officer. Taking a guide, an interpreter, and
a few attendants, and following the Indian tracks, in the fall of the year 1753 the intrepid
young envoy made his way from Williamsburg almost to the shores of Lake Erie, and found the
French commander at Fort Le Boeuf. That officer's reply was brief; his orders were to hold
the place and drive all the English from it. The French avowed their intention of taking possession
of the Ohio. And with this rough answer the messenger from Virginia had to return through danger
and difficulty, across lonely forest and frozen river, shaping his course by the compass, and
camping at night in the snow by the forest fires.

On his return from this expedition, which he had conducted with an heroic energy and simplicity,
Major Washington was a greater favourite than ever with the lady of Castlewood. She pointed
him out as a model to both of her sons. "Ah, Harry!" she would say, "think of you, with your
cock-fighting and your racing matches, and the Major away there in the wilderness, watching
the French, and battling with the frozen rivers! Ah, George! learning may be a very good thing,
but I wish my elder son were doing something in the service of his country!"

Mr. Washington on his return home began at once raising such a regiment as, with the scanty
pay and patronage of the Virginian government, he could get together, and proposed with the
help of these men-of-war to put a more peremptory veto upon the French invaders than the solitary
ambassador had been enabled to lay. A small force under another officer, Colonel Trent, had
already been despatched to the west, with orders to fortify themselves so as to be able to
resist any attack of the enemy. The French troops greatly outnumbering ours, came up with the
English outposts, who were fortifying themselves at a place on the confines of Pennsylvania
where the great city of Pittsburg now stands. A Virginian officer with but forty men was in
no condition to resist twenty times that number of Canadians who appeared before his incomplete
works. He was suffered to draw back without molestation; and the French, taking possession
of his fort, strengthened it and christened it by the name of the Canadian governor, Du Quesne.
Up to this time no actual blow of war had been struck. It was strange that in a savage forest
of Pennsylvania a young Virginian officer should fire a shot and waken up a war which was to
last for sixty years, which was to cover his own country and pass into Europe, to cost France
her American colonies, to sever ours from us, and create the great Western Republic; to rage
over the old world when extinguished in the new; and of all the myriads engaged in the vast
contest, to leave the prize of the greatest fame with him who struck the first blow!

He little knew of the fate in store for him. A simple gentleman, anxious to serve his king
and do his duty, he volunteered for the first service, and executed it with admirable fidelity.
In the ensuing year he took the command of the small body of provincial troops with which he
marched to repel the Frenchmen. He came up with their advanced guard and fired upon them, killing
their leader. After this he had himself to fall back with his troops, and was compelled to
capitulate to the superior French force. On the 4th of July, 1754, the Colonel marched out
with his troops from the little fort where he had hastily entrenched himself, and which they
called Fort Necessity, gave up the place to the conqueror, and took his way home.

His command was over, his regiment disbanded after the fruitless, inglorious march and defeat.
Saddened and humbled in spirit, the young officer presented himself after a while to his old
friends at Castlewood.

But surely no man can have better claims to sympathy than bravery, youth, good looks, and misfortune.
Mr. Washington's room at Castlewood was more than ever Mr. Washington's room now. Madame Esmond
raved about him and praised him in all her companies. She more than ever pointed out his excellences
to her sons, contrasting his sterling qualities with Harry's love of pleasure and George's
listless musing over his books. George was not disposed to like Mr. Washington any better for
his mother's extravagant praises. He coaxed the jealous demon within him until he must have
become a perfect pest to himself and all his friends round about him. He uttered jokes so deep
that his simple mother did not know their meaning, but sat bewildered at his sarcasms.

Meanwhile the quarrel between the French and English North Americans, from being a provincial,
had grown to be a national quarrel. Reinforcements from France had already arrived in Canada,
and English troops were expected in Virginia. It was resolved to wrest from the French all
the conquests they had made upon British dominion. A couple of regiments were raised and paid
by the king in America, and a fleet with a couple more was despatched from home under an experienced
commander. In February, 1755, Commodore Keppel, in the famous ship "Centurion," anchored in
Hampton Roads with two ships of war under his command, and having on board General Braddock,
his staff, and a part of his troops. Mr. Braddock was appointed by the Duke. A fleet of transports
speedily followed him bringing stores, and men and money in plenty.

The arrival of the General and his little army caused a mighty excitement all through the provinces,
and nowhere greater than at Castlewood. Harry was off forthwith to see the troops under canvas
at Alexandria. The sight of their lines delighted him, and the inspiring music of their fifes
and drums. He speedily made acquaintance with the officers of both regiments; he longed to
join in the expedition upon which they were bound, and was a welcome guest at their mess.

We may be sure that the arrival of the army and the approaching campaign formed the subject
of continued conversation in the Castlewood family. To make the campaign was the dearest wish
of Harry's life. He dreamed only of war and battle; he was forever with the officers at Williamsburg;
he scoured and cleaned and polished all the guns and swords in the house; he renewed the amusements
of his childhood and had the negroes under arms, but eager as he was to be a soldier, he scarcely
dared touch on the subject with George, for he saw to his infinite terror how George, too,
was occupied with military matters, and having a feudal attachment for his elder brother, and
worshipping him with an extravagant regard, he gave way in all things to him as the chief,
and felt that should George wish to make the campaign he would submit. He took note that George
had all the military books of his grandfather brought down from his book-shelves, and that
he and Dempster were practising with the foils again; and he soon found that his fears were
true. Mr. Franklin of Philadelphia, having heard that Madame Esmond had beeves and horses and
stores in plenty, which might be useful to General Braddock, recommended the General to conciliate
her by inviting her sons to dinner, which he at once did. The General and the gentlemen of
his family made much of them, and they returned home delighted with their entertainment; and
so pleased was their mother at the civility shown them that she at once penned a billet thanking
his Excellency for his politeness, and begging him to fix the time when she might have the
honour of receiving him at Castlewood.

Madame Esmond made her boys bearers of the letter in reply to his Excellency's message, accompanying
her note with handsome presents for the General's staff and officers, which they were delighted
to accept.

"Would not one of the young gentlemen like to see the campaign?" the General asked. "A friend
of theirs, who often spoke of them--Mr. Washington, who had been unlucky in the affair of last
year--had already promised to join him as aide-de-camp, and his Excellency would gladly take
another young Virginian gentleman into his family."

Harry's eyes brightened and his face flushed at this offer. He would like with all his heart
to go, he cried out. George said, looking hard at his younger brother, that one of them would
be proud to attend his Excellency, whilst it would be the other's duty to take care of their
mother at home. Harry allowed his senior to speak. However much he desired to go, he would
not pronounce until George had declared himself. He longed so for the campaign that the actual
wish made him timid. He dared not speak on the matter as he went home with George. They rode
for miles in silence, or strove to talk upon indifferent subjects, each knowing what was passing
in the other's mind, and afraid to bring the awful question to an issue.

On their arrival at home the boys told their mother of General Braddock's offer.

"I know it must happen," she said; "at such a crisis in the country our family must come forward.
Have you--have you settled yet which of you is to leave me?" and she looked anxiously from
one to another, dreading to hear either name.

"The youngest ought to go, mother; of course I ought to go!" cries Harry, turning very red.

"Of course, he ought," said Mrs. Mountain, who was present at their talk.

"The head of the family ought to go, mother," says George, adding: "You would make the best
soldier, I know that, dearest Hal. You and George Washington are great friends, and could travel
well together, and he does not care for me, nor I for him, however much he is admired in the
family. But, you see, 'tis the law of honour, my Harry. I must go. Had fate given you the benefit
of that extra half hour of life which I have had before you, it would have been your lot, and
you would have claimed your right to go first, you know you would."

"Yes, George," said poor Harry; "I own I should."

"You will stay at home, and take care of Castlewood and our mother. If anything happens to
me, you are here to fill my place. I should like to give way, my dear, as you, I know, would
lay down your life to serve me. But each of us must do his duty. What would our grandfather
say if he were here?"

The mother looked proudly at her two sons. "My papa would say that his boys were gentlemen,"
faltered Madame Esmond, and left the young men, not choosing perhaps to show the emotion which
was filling her heart. It was speedily known amongst the servants that Mr. George was going
on the campaign. Dinah, George's foster-mother, was loud in her lamentations at losing him;
Phillis, Harry's old nurse, was as noisy, because Master George, as usual, was preferred over
Master Harry. Sady, George's servant, made preparations to follow his master, bragging incessantly
of the deeds which he would do; while Gumbo, Harry's boy, pretended to whimper at being left
behind, though at home Gumbo was anything but a fire-eater.

But of all in the house Mrs. Mountain was the most angry at George's determination to go on
the campaign. She begged, implored, insisted that he should alter his determination; voted
that nothing but mischief would come from his departure; and finally suggested that it was
his duty to remain at home to protect his mother from the advances of Colonel Washington, whom
she assured him she believed to desire a rich wife, and that if George would go away he would
come back to find George Washington master of Castlewood. As a proof of what she said she produced
part of a letter written by Colonel Washington to his brother, in which his words seemed to
the romantic Mrs. Mountain to bear out her belief. This fragment, which she had found in the
Colonel's room and with none too much honesty appropriated, she now showed to George, who after
gazing at the document gave her a frightful look, saying, "I--I will return this paper to Mr.
Washington." Mrs. Mountain was thoroughly scared then at what she had done and said, but it
could not be taken back, so she was obliged to adjust herself to taking in good part whatever
consequences might come of her dishonest act.

On the day set for Madame Esmond's entertainment to General Braddock the House of Castlewood
was set out with the greatest splendour; and Madame Esmond arrayed herself in a much more magnificent
dress than she was accustomed to wear, while the boys were dressed alike in gold-corded frocks,
braided waistcoats, silver-hilted sword, and wore each a solitaire.

The General's new aide-de-camp was the first guest to arrive, and he and his hostess paced
the gallery for some time. She had much to say to him, and also to hear from him a confirmation
of his appointment as aide-de-camp to General Braddock, and to speak of her son's approaching
departure. At length they descended the steps down to the rough lawn in front of the house,
and presently the little lady re-entered her mansion, leaning upon Mr. Washington's arm. Here
they were joined by George, who came to them accurately powdered and richly attired, saluting
his parent and his friend alike with respectful bows, according to the fashion of that time.

But George, though he made the lowest possible bow to Mr. Washington and his mother, was by
no means in good humour with either of them, and in all his further conversation that day with
Colonel Washington showed a bitter sarcasm and a depth of innuendo which the Colonel was at
a loss to understand. A short time after George's entrance into the Colonel's presence Harry
answered back a remark of George's to the effect that he hated sporting by saying, "I say one
thing, George."

"Say twenty things, Don Enrico," cries the other.

"If you are not fond of sporting and that, being cleverer than me, why shouldst thou not stop
at home and be quiet, and let me go out with Colonel George and Mr. Braddock? That's what I
say," says Harry, flushing with excitement.

"One of our family must go because honour obliges it, and my name being number one, number
one must go first," says George, adding, "One must stay, or who is to look after mother at
home? We cannot afford to be both scalped by Indians or fricasseed by French."

"Fricasseed by French," cries Harry; "the best troops of the world are Englishmen. I should
like to see them fricasseed by the French! what a mortal thrashing you will give them!" and
the brave lad sighed to think he should not be present at the combat.

George sat down to the harpsichord and was playing when the Colonel re-entered, saying that
his Excellency's coach would be here almost immediately, and asking leave to retire to his
apartment, to put himself in a fit condition to appear before her ladyship's company. As the
widow was conducting Mr. Washington to his chamber, George gave way to a fit of wrath, ending
in an explanation to his astonished brother of the reason of it, and telling him of Mrs. Mountain's
suspicions concerning the Colonel's attitude towards their mother, which he confirmed by showing
Harry the letter of Colonel Washington's which Mrs. Mountain had found and preserved.

But to go back to Madame Esmond's feast for his Excellency; all the birds of the Virginia air,
and all the fish of the sea in season, and all the most famous dishes for which Madame Esmond
was famous, and the best wine which her cellar boasted, were laid on the little widow's board
to feed her distinguished guest and the other gentlemen who accompanied him. The kind mistress
of Castlewood looked so gay and handsome and spoke with such cheerfulness and courage to all
her company that the few ladies who were present could not but congratulate Madame Esmond upon
the elegance of the feast and upon her manner of presiding at it. But they were scarcely in
the drawing-room, when her artificial courage failed her, and she burst into tears, exclaiming,
"Ah, it may be an honour to have Mr. Braddock in my house, but he comes to take one of my sons
away from me. Who knows whether my boy will return, or how? I dreamed of him last night as
wounded, with blood streaming from his side."

Meanwhile Mr. Washington was pondering deeply upon George's peculiar behaviour towards him.
The tone of freedom and almost impertinence which young George had adopted of late towards
Mr. Washington had very deeply vexed and annoyed that gentleman. There was scarce half a dozen
years' difference of age between him and the Castlewood twins; but Mr. Washington had always
been remarked for a discretion and sobriety much beyond his time of life, whilst the boys of
Castlewood seemed younger than theirs. They had always been till now under their mother's anxious
tutelage, and had looked up to their neighbour of Mount Vernon as their guide, director, friend,
as, indeed, almost everybody seemed to do who came in contact with the simple and upright young
man. Himself of the most scrupulous gravity and good-breeding, in his communication with other
folks he appeared to exact, or, at any rate, to occasion, the same behaviour. His nature was
above levity and jokes: they seemed out of place when addressed to him. He was slow of comprehending
them: and they slunk as it were abashed out of his society. "He always seemed great to me,"
says Harry Warrington, in one of his letters many years after the date of which we are writing;
"and I never thought of him otherwise than as a hero. When he came over to Castlewood and taught
us boys surveying, to see him riding to hounds was as if he was charging an army. If he fired
a shot, I thought the bird must come down, and if he flung a net, the largest fish in the river
were sure to be in it. His words were always few, but they were always wise; they were not
idle, as our words are; they were grave, sober and strong, and ready on occasion to do their
duty. In spite of his antipathy to him, my brother respected and admired the General as much
as I did--that is to say, more than any mortal man."

Mr. Washington was the first to leave the jovial party which were doing so much honour to Madame
Esmond's hospitality. Young George Esmond, who had taken his mother's place when she left the
dining-room, had been free with the glass and with the tongue. He had said a score of things
to his guest which wounded and chafed the latter, and to which Mr. Washington could give no
reply. Angry beyond all endurance, he left the table at length, and walked away through the
open windows into the broad veranda or porch which belonged to Castlewood as to all Virginian
houses.

Here Madame Esmond caught sight of her friend's tall frame as it strode up and down before
the windows; and gave up her cards to one of the other ladies, and joined her good neighbour
out of doors. He tried to compose his countenance as well as he could, but found it so difficult
that presently she asked, "Why do you look so grave?"

"Indeed, to be frank with you, I do not know what has come over George," says Mr. Washington.
"He has some grievance against me which I do not understand, and of which I don't care to ask
the reason. He spoke to me before the gentlemen in a way which scarcely became him. We are
going to the campaign together, and 'tis a pity we begin such ill friends."

"He has been ill. He is always wild and wayward and hard to understand, but he has the most
affectionate heart in the world. You will bear with him, you will protect him. Promise you will."

"Dear lady, I will do so with my life," Mr. Washington said heartily. "You know I would lay
it down cheerfully for you or any you love."

"And my father's blessing and mine go with you, dear friend!" cried the widow.

As they talked, they had quitted the porch and were pacing a walk before the house. Young George
Warrington, from his place at the head of the table in the dining-room, could see them, and
after listening in a very distracted manner for some time to the remarks of the gentlemen around
him, he jumped up and pulled his brother Harry by the sleeve, turning him so that he, too,
could see his mother and the Colonel.

Somewhat later, when General Braddock and the other guests had retired to their apartments,
the boys went to their own room, and there poured out to one another their opinions respecting
the great event of the day. They would not bear such a marriage--No. Was the representative
of the Marquis of Esmond to marry the younger son of a colonial family, who had been bred up
as a land surveyor--Castlewood and the boys at nineteen years of age handed over to the tender
mercies of a step-father of three and twenty? Oh, it was monstrous! Harry was for going straightway
to his mother, protesting against the odious match, and announcing that they would leave her
forever if the marriage took place.

George had another plan for preventing it, which he explained to his admiring brother. "Our
mother," he said, "can't marry a man with whom one or both of us has been out on the field,
and who has wounded us or killed us, or whom we have wounded or killed. We must have him out,
Harry."

Harry saw the profound truth conveyed in George's statement, and admired his brother's immense
sagacity. "No, George," says he, "you are right. Mother can't marry our murderer; she won't
be as bad as that. And if we pink him, he is done for. Shall I send my boy with a challenge
to Colonel George now?"

"We can't insult a gentleman in our own house," said George with great majesty; "the laws of
honour forbid such inhospitable treatment. But, sir, we can ride out with him, and, as soon
as the park gates are closed, we can tell him our mind."

"That we can, by George!" cries Harry, grasping his brother's hand, "and that we will, too.
I say, Georgie--" Here the lad's face became very red, and his brother asked him what he would say.

"This is my turn, brother," Harry pleaded. "If you go to the campaign, I ought to have the
other affair. Indeed, indeed, I ought." And he prayed for this bit of promotion.

"Again the head of the house must take the lead, my dear," George said with a superb air. "If
I fall, my Harry will avenge me. But I must fight George Washington, Hal; and 'tis best I should;
for, indeed, I hate him the worst. Was it not he who counselled my mother to order that wretch,
Ward, to lay hands on me?"

"Colonel Washington is my enemy especially. He has advised one wrong against me, and he meditates
a greater. I tell you, brother, we must punish him."

The grandsire's old Bordeaux had set George's ordinarily pale countenance into a flame. Harry,
his brother's fondest worshipper, could not but admire George's haughty bearing and rapid declamation,
and prepared himself, with his usual docility, to follow his chief. So the boys went to their
beds, the elder conveying special injunctions to his junior to be civil to all the guests so
long as they remained under the maternal roof on the morrow.

The widow, occupied as she had been with the cares of a great dinner, followed by a great breakfast
on the morning ensuing, had scarce leisure to remark the behaviour of her sons very closely,
but at least saw that George was scrupulously polite to her favourite, Colonel Washington,
as to all the other guests of the house.

Before Mr. Braddock took his leave he had a private audience with Madame Esmond, in which his
Excellency formally arranged to take her son into his family; after which the jolly General
good-naturedly shook hands with George, and bade George welcome and to be in attendance at
Frederick three days hence; shortly after which time the expedition would set forth.

And now the great coach was again called into requisition, the General's escort pranced round
it, the other guests and their servants went to horse.

As the boys went up the steps, there was the Colonel once more taking leave of their mother.
No doubt she had been once more recommending George to his namesake's care; for Colonel Washington
said: "With my life. You may depend on me," as the lads returned to their mother and the few
guests still remained in the porch. The Colonel was booted and ready to depart. "Farewell,
my dear Harry," he said. "With you, George, 'tis no adieu. We shall meet in three days at the
camp."

George Warrington watched his mother's emotion, and interpreted it with a pang of malignant
scorn. "Stay yet a moment, and console our mamma," he said with a steady countenance, "only
the time to get ourselves booted, and my brother and I will ride with you a little way, George."
George Warrington had already ordered his horses. The three young men were speedily under way,
their negro grooms behind them, and Mrs. Mountain, who knew she had made mischief between them
and trembled for the result, felt a vast relief that Mr. Washington was gone without a quarrel
with the brothers, without, at any rate, an open declaration of love to their mother.

No man could be more courteous in demeanour than George Warrington to his neighbour and name-sake,
the Colonel, who was pleased and surprised at his young friend's altered behaviour. The community
of danger, the necessity of future fellowship, the softening influence of the long friendship
which bound him to the Esmond family, the tender adieux which had just passed between him and
the mistress of Castlewood, inclined the Colonel to forget the unpleasantness of the past days,
and made him more than usually friendly with his young companion. George was quite gay and
easy: it was Harry who was melancholy now; he rode silently and wistfully by his brother, keeping
away from Colonel Washington, to whose side he used always to press eagerly before. If the
honest Colonel remarked his young friend's conduct, no doubt he attributed it to Harry's known
affection for his brother, and his natural anxiety to be with George now the day of their parting
was so near.

They talked further about the war, and the probable end of the campaign; none of the three
doubted its successful termination. Two thousand veteran British troops with their commander
must get the better of any force the French could bring against them. The ardent young Virginian
soldier had an immense respect for the experienced valour and tactics of the regular troops.
King George II. had no more loyal subject than Mr. Braddock's new aide-de-camp.

So the party rode amicably together, until they reached a certain rude log-house, called Benson's,
where they found a rough meal prepared for such as were disposed to partake.

A couple of Halkett's officers, whom our young gentlemen knew, were sitting under the porch,
with the Virginian toddy bowl before them, and the boys joined them and sent for glasses and
more toddy, in a very grown-up manner.

George called out to Colonel Washington, who was at the porch, to join his friends and drink,
with the intention of drawing Mr. Washington into some kind of a disagreement.

The lad's tone was offensive, and resembled the manner lately adopted by him, which had so
much chafed Mr. Washington. He bowed, and said he was not thirsty.

"Nay, the liquor is paid for," says George; "never fear, Colonel."

"I said I was not thirsty. I did not say the liquor was not paid for," said the young Colonel,
drumming with his foot.

"When the King's health is proposed, an officer can hardly say no. I drink the health of his
Majesty, gentlemen," cried George. "Colonel Washington can drink it or leave it. The King!"

This was a point of military honour. The two British officers of Halkett's, Captain Grace and
Mr. Waring, both drank "The King." Harry Warrington drank "The King." Colonel Washington, with
glaring eyes, gulped, too, a slight draught from the bowl.

Then Captain Grace proposed "The Duke and the Army," which toast there was likewise no gainsaying.
Colonel Washington had to swallow "The Duke and the Army."

"You don't seem to stomach the toast, Colonel," said George.

"I tell you again, I don't want to drink," replied the Colonel. "It seems to me the Duke and
the Army would be served all the better if their healths were not drunk so often."

"A British officer," said Captain Grace, with doubtful articulation," never neglects a toast
of that sort, nor any other duty. A man who refuses to drink the health of the Duke--hang me,
such a man should be tried by a court-martial!"

"What means this language to me? You are drunk, sir!" roared Colonel Washington, jumping up
and striking the table with his first.

"A cursed provincial officer say I'm drunk!" shrieks out Captain Grace. "Waring, do you hear that?"

"I heard it, sir!" cried George Warrington. "We all heard it. We entered at my invitation--the
liquor called for was mine; the table was mine--and I am shocked to hear such monstrous language
used at it as Colonel Washington has just employed towards my esteemed guest, Captain Waring."

"Confound your impudence, you infernal young jackanapes!" bellowed out Colonel Washington.
"You dare to insult me before British officers, and find fault with my language? For months
past I have borne with such impudence from you, that if I had not loved your mother--yes, sir,
and your good grandfather and your brother--I would--" Here his words failed him, and the irate
Colonel, with glaring eyes and purple face, and every limb quivering with wrath, stood for
a moment speechless before his young enemy.

"You would what, sir," says George, very quietly, "if you did not love my grandfather, and
my brother, and my mother? You are making her petticoat a plea for some conduct of yours! You
would do what, sir, may I ask again?"

"I would put you across my knee and whip you, you snarling little puppy! That's what I would
do!" cried the Colonel, who had found breath by this time, and vented another explosion of fury.

"Because you have known us all our lives, and made our house your own, that is no reason why
you should insult either of us!" here cried Harry, starting up. "What you have said, George
Washington, is an insult to me and my brother alike. You will ask our pardon, sir!"

"Pardon!"

"Or give us the reparation that is due to gentlemen," continues Harry.

The stout Colonel's heart smote him to think that he should be at mortal quarrel, or called
upon to shed the blood of one of the lads he loved. As Harry stood facing him, with his fair
hair, flushing cheeks, and quivering voice, an immense tenderness and kindness filled the bosom
of the elder man. "I--I am bewildered," he said. "My words, perhaps, were very hasty. What
has been the meaning of George's behaviour to me for months back? Only tell me, and, perhaps--"

The evil spirit was awake and victorious in young George Warrington; his black eyes shot out
scorn and hatred at the simple and guileless gentleman before him. "You are shirking from the
question, sir, as you did from the toast just now," he said. "I am not a boy to suffer under
your arrogance. You have publicly insulted me in a public place, and I demand a reparation."

"As you please, George Warrington--and God forgive you, George! God pardon you, Harry! for
bringing me into this quarrel," said the Colonel, with a face full of sadness and gloom.

Harry hung his head, but George continued with perfect calmness: "I, sir? It was not I who
called names, who talked of a cane, who insulted a gentleman in a public place before the gentlemen
of the army. It is not the first time you have chosen to take me for a negro, and talked of
the whip for me."

The Colonel started back, turning very red, and as if struck by a sudden remembrance.

"Great heavens, George! is it that boyish quarrel you are still recalling?"

"Who made you overseer of Castlewood?" said the boy, grinding his teeth. "I am not your slave,
George Washington, and I never will be. I hated you then, and I hate you now. And you have
insulted me, and I am a gentleman, and so are you. Is that not enough?"

"Too much, only too much," said the Colonel, with a genuine grief on his face, and at his heart
"Do you bear malice, too, Harry? I had not thought this of thee!"

"I stand by my brother," said Harry, turning away from the Colonel's look, and grasping George's
hand. The sadness on their adversary's face did not depart. "Heaven be good to us! 'Tis all
clear now," he muttered to himself. "The time to write a few letters, and I am at your service,
Mr. Warrington," he said.

"You have your own pistols at your saddle. I did not ride out with any; but will send Sady
back for mine. That will give you time enough, Colonel Washington?"

"Plenty of time, sir." And each gentleman made the other a low bow, and, putting his arm in
his brother's, George walked away. The Virginian officer looked towards Captain Benson, the
master of the tavern, saying, "Captain Benson, you are an old frontier man, and an officer
of ours, before you turned farmer and taverner. You will help me in this matter with yonder
young gentleman?" said the Colonel.

"I'll stand by and see fair play, Colonel. I won't have any hand in it, beyond seeing fair
play. You ain't a-goin' to be very hard with them poor boys? Though I seen 'em both shoot;
the fair one hunts well, as you know, but the old one's a wonder at an ace of spades."

"Will you be pleased to send my man with my valise, Captain, into any private room which you
can spare me? I must write a few letters before this business comes on. God grant it were well
over!" And the Captain led the Colonel into a room of his house where he remained occupied
with gloomy preparations for the ensuing meeting. His adversary in the other room also thought
fit to make his testamentary dispositions, too, dictated by his own obedient brother and secretary,
a grandiloquent letter to his mother, of whom, and by that writing, he took a solemn farewell.
She would hardly, he supposed, pursue the scheme which she had in view, after the event of
that morning, should he fall, as probably would be the case.

"My dear, dear George, don't say that!" cried the affrighted secretary.

"As probably will be the case," George persisted with great majesty. "You know what a good
shot Colonel George is, Harry. I, myself, am pretty fair at a mark, and 'tis probable that
one or both of us will drop--I scarcely suppose you will carry out the intentions you have
at present in view." This was uttered in a tone of still greater bitterness than George had
used even in the previous phrase, and he added in a tone of surprise: "Why, Harry, what have
you been writing, and who taught thee to spell?" Harry had written the last words "in view,"
in vew, and a great blot of salt water from his honest, boyish eyes may have obliterated some
other bad spelling.

"I can't think about the spelling now, Georgy," whimpered George's clerk. "I'm too miserable
for that. I begin to think, perhaps, it's all nonsense; perhaps Colonel George never--"

"Never meant to take possession of Castlewood; never gave himself airs, and patronised us there;
never advised my mother to have me flogged; never intended to marry her; never insulted me,
and was insulted before the King's officers; never wrote to his brother to say that we should
be the better for his parental authority? The paper is there," cried the young man, slapping
his breast-pocket, "and if anything happens to me, Harry Warrington, you will find it on my
corpse!"

"Write, yourself, Georgie, I can't write," says Harry, digging his fists into his eyes, and
smearing over the whole composition, bad spelling and all, with his elbows.

On this, George, taking another sheet of paper, sat down at his brother's place, and produced
a composition in which he introduced the longest words, the grandest Latin quotations, and
the most profound satire of which the youthful scribe was master. He desired that his negro
boy, Sady, should be set free; that his "Horace," a choice of his books, and, if possible,
a suitable provision should be made for his affectionate tutor, Mr. Dempster; that his silver
fruit-knife, his music-books, and harpischord should be given to little Fannie Mountain; and
that his brother should take a lock of his hair, and wear it in memory of his ever fond and
faithfully attached George. And he sealed the document with the seal of arms that his grandfather
had worn.

"The watch, of course, will be yours," said George, taking out his grandfather's gold watch
and looking at it. "Why, two hours and a half are gone! 'Tis time that Sady should be back
with the pistols. Take the watch, Harry, dear."

"It's no good!" cried out Harry, flinging his arms round his brother. "If he fights you, I'll
fight him, too. If he kills my Georgie, he shall have a shot at me!" cried the poor lad.

Meanwhile, Mr. Washington had written five letters in his large resolute hand, and sealed them
with his seal. One was to his mother, at Mount Vernon; one to his brother; one was addressed
M.C. only; and one to his Excellency, Major-General Braddock. "And one, young gentlemen, is
for your mother, Madame Esmond," said the boys' informant.

It was the landlord of the tavern who communicated these facts to the young men. The Captain
had put on his old militia uniform to do honour to the occasion, and informed the boys that
the "Colonel was walking up and down the garden a-waiting for 'em, and that the Reg'lars was
a'most sober, too, by this time."

A plot of ground near the Captain's log house had been enclosed with shingles, and cleared
for a kitchen-garden; there indeed paced Colonel Washington, his hands behind his back, his
head bowed down, a grave sorrow on his handsome face. The negro servants were crowded at the
palings and looking over. The officers under the porch had wakened up also, as their host remarked.

There, then, stalked the tall young Colonel, plunged in dismal meditation. There was no way
out of his scrape, but the usual cruel one, which the laws of honour and the practice of the
country ordered. Goaded into fury by the impertinence of a boy, he had used insulting words.
The young man had asked for reparation. He was shocked to think that George Warrington's jealousy
and revenge should have rankled in the young fellow so long; but the wrong had been the Colonel's,
and he was bound to pay the forfeit.

A great hallooing and shouting, such as negroes use, who love noise at all times, was now heard
at a distance, and all heads were turned in the direction of this outcry. It came from the
road over which our travellers had themselves passed three hours before, and presently the
clattering of a horse's hoofs was heard, and now Mr. Sady made his appearance on his foaming
horse. Presently he was in the court-yard, and was dismounting.

"Sady, sir, come here!" roars out Master Harry.

"Sady, come here, confound you!" shouts Master George.

"Come directly, Mas'r," says Sady. He grins. He takes the pistols out of the holster. He snaps
the locks. He points them at a grunter, which plunges through the farm-yard. He points down
the road, over which he has just galloped, and says again, "Comin', Mas'r. Everybody a-comin'."
And now, the gallop of other horses is heard. And who is yonder? Little Mr. Dempster, spurring
and digging into his pony; and that lady in a riding-habit on Madame Esmond's little horse--can
it be Madame Esmond? No. It is too stout. As I live it is Mrs. Mountain on Madame's grey!"

"O Lor'! O Golly! Hoop! Here dey come! Hurray!"

Dr. Dempster and Mrs. Mountain having clattered into the yard, jumped from their horses, and
ran to the garden where George and Harry were walking, their tall enemy stalking opposite to
them; and almost ere George Warrington had time sternly to say, "What do you here, Madame?"
Mrs. Mountain flung her arms round his neck and cried: "Oh, George, my darling! It's a mistake!
It's a mistake, and is all my fault!"

"What's a mistake?" asks George, majestically separating himself from the embrace.

"What is it, Mounty?" cries Harry, all of a tremble.

"That paper I took out of his portfolio, that paper I picked up, children; where the Colonel
says he is going to marry a widow with two children. Well, it's--it's not your mother. It's
that little Widow Custis whom the Colonel is going to marry. It's not Mrs. Rachel Warrington.
He told Madame so to-day, just before he was going away, and that the marriage was to come
off after the campaign. And--and your mother is furious, boys. And when Sady came for the pistols,
and told the whole house how you were going to fight, I told him to fire the pistols off; and
I galloped after him, and I've nearly broken my poor old bones in coming to you."

"What will Mr. Washington and those gentlemen think of my servant telling my mother at home
that I was going to fight a duel?" growled Mr. George in wrath.

"You should have shown your proofs before, George," says Harry, respectfully. "And, thank Heaven,
you are not going to fight our old friend. For it was a mistake; and there is no quarrel now,
dear, is there? You were unkind to him under a wrong impression."

"I certainly acted under a wrong impression," owns George, "but--"

"George! George Washington!" Harry here cries out, springing over the cabbage garden towards
the bowling-green, where the Colonel was stalking, and though we cannot hear him, we see him,
with both his hands out, and with the eagerness of youth, and with a hundred blunders, and
with love and affection thrilling in his honest voice, we imagine the lad telling his tale
to his friend.

There was a custom in those days which has disappeared from our manners now, but which then
lingered.

When Harry had finished his artless story his friend the Colonel took him fairly to his arms,
and held him to his heart; and his voice faltered as he said, "Thank God, thank God for this!"

"Oh, George," said Harry, who felt now he loved his friend with all his heart, "how I wish
I was going with you on the campaign!" The other pressed both the boy's hands in a grasp of
friendship, which, each knew, never would slacken.

Then the Colonel advanced, gravely holding out his hand to Harry's elder brother. But, though
hands were joined, the salutation was only formal and stern on both sides.

"I find I have done you a wrong, Colonel Washington," George said, "and must apologise, not
for the error, but for much of my late behaviour, which has resulted from it."

"The error was mine! It was I who found that paper in your room and showed it to George, and
was jealous of you, Colonel. All women are jealous," cried Mrs. Mountain.

"'Tis a pity you could not have kept your eyes off my paper, Madame," said Mr. Washington.
"You will permit me to say so. A great deal of mischief has come because I chose to keep a
secret which concerned only myself and another person. For a long time George Warrington's
heart has been black with anger against me, and my feeling towards him has, I own, scarce been
more friendly. All this pain might have been spared to both of us had my private papers only
been read by those for whom they were written. I shall say no more now, lest my feelings again
should betray me into hasty words. Heaven bless thee, Harry! Farewell, George! And take a true
friend's advice, and try to be less ready to think evil of your friends. We shall meet again
at the camp, and will keep our weapons for the enemy. Gentlemen! if you remember this scene
tomorrow, you will know where to find me." And with a very stately bow to the English officers,
the Colonel left the abashed company, and speedily rode away.

We must fancy that the parting between the brothers is over, that George has taken his place
in Mr. Braddock's family, and Harry has returned home to Castlewood and his duty. His heart
is with the army, and his pursuits at home offer the boy no pleasure. He does not care to own
how deep his disappointment is, at being obliged to stay under the homely, quiet roof, now
more melancholy than ever since George is away. Harry passes his brother's empty chamber with
an averted face; takes George's place at the head of the table, and sighs as he drinks from
his silver tankard. Madame Warrington calls the toast of "The King" stoutly every day; and
on Sundays when Harry reads the Service, and prays for all travellers by land and by water,
she says, "We beseech Thee to hear us," with a peculiar solemnity.

Mrs. Mountain is constantly on the whimper when George's name is mentioned, and Harry's face
frequently wears a look of the most ghastly alarm; but his mother's is invariably grave and
sedate. She makes more blunders at piquet and backgammon than you would expect from her; and
the servants find her awake and dressed, however early they may rise. She has prayed Mr. Dempster
to come back into residence at Castlewood. She is not severe or haughty, as her wont certainly
was, with any of the party, but quiet in her talk with them, and gentle in assertion and reply.
She is forever talking of her father and his campaigns, who came out of them all with no very
severe wounds to hurt him; and so she hopes and trusts will her eldest son.

George writes frequent letters home to his brother, and, now the army is on its march, compiles
a rough journal, which he forwards as occasion serves. This document is read with great eagerness
by Harry, and more than once read out in family councils on the long summer nights as Madame
Esmond sits upright at her tea-table; as little Fanny Mountain is busy with her sewing, as
Mr. Dempster and Mrs. Mountain sit over their cards, as the hushed old servants of the house
move about silently in the gloaming and listen to the words of the young master. Hearken to
Harry Warrington reading out his brother's letter!

"It must be owned that the provinces are acting scurvily by his Majesty King George, and his
representative here is in a flame of fury. Virginia is bad enough, and poor Maryland not much
better, but Pennsylvania is worst of all. We pray them to send us troops from home to fight
the French; and we propose to maintain the troops when they come. We not only don't keep our
promise, and make scarce any provision for our defenders, but our people insist upon the most
exorbitant prices for their cattle and stores, and actually cheat the soldiers who are come
to fight their battles. No wonder the General swears, and the troops are sulky. The delays
have been endless. Owing to the failure of the several provinces to provide their promised
stores and means of locomotion, weeks and months have elapsed, during which time no doubt the
French have been strengthening themselves on our frontier and in the forts they have turned
us out of. Though there never will be any love lost between me and Colonel Washington, it must
be owned that your favourite (I am not jealous, Hal) is a brave man and a good officer. The
family respect him very much, and the General is always asking his opinion. Indeed, he is almost
the only man who has seen the Indians in their war-paint, and I own I think he was right in
firing upon Mons. Jumonville last year."

Harry resumes: "We keep the strictest order here in camp, and the orders against drunkenness
and ill behaviour on the part of the men are very severe. The roll of each company is called
at morning, noon, and night, and a return of the absent and disorderly is given in by the officer
to the commanding officer of the regiment, who has to see that they are properly punished.
Each regiment has Divine Service performed at the head of its colours every Sunday. The General
does everything in the power of mortal man to prevent plundering, and to encourage the people
round about to bring in provisions. He has declared soldiers shall be shot who dare to interrupt
or molest the market people. He has ordered the price of provisions to be raised a penny a
pound, and has lent money out of his own pocket to provide the camp. Altogether he is a strange
compound, this General, and shows many strange inconsistencies in his conduct.

"Colonel Washington has had the fever very smartly, and has hardly been well enough to keep
up with the march. When either of us is ill, we are almost as good friends again as ever, and
though I don't love him as you do, I know he is a good soldier, a good officer, and a brave,
honest man; and, at any rate, shall love him none the worse for not wanting to be our step-father."

"'Tis a pretty sight," Harry continued, reading from his brother's journal, "to see a long
line of red coats threading through the woods or taking their ground after the march. The care
against surprise is so great and constant that we defy prowling Indians to come unawares upon
us, and our advanced sentries and savages have on the contrary fallen in with the enemy and
taken a scalp or two from them. They are such cruel villains, these French and their painted
allies, that we do not think of showing them mercy. Only think, we found but yesterday a little
boy scalped but yet alive in a lone house, where his parents had been attacked and murdered
by the savage enemy, of whom--so great is his indignation at their cruelty--our General has
offered a reward of £5 for all the Indian scalps brought in.

"When our march is over, you should see our camp, and all the care bestowed on it. Our baggage
and our General's tents and guard are placed quite in the centre of the camp. We have outlying
sentries by twos, by threes, by tens, by whole companies. At the least surprise, they are instructed
to run in on the main body and rally round the tents and baggage, which are so arranged themselves
as to be a strong fortification. Sady and I, you must know, are marching on foot now, and my
horses are carrying baggage. The Pennsylvanians sent such rascally animals into camp that they
speedily gave in. What good horses were left 'twas our duty to give up; and Roxana has a couple
of packs upon her back instead of her young master. She knows me right well, and whinnies when
she sees me, and I walk by her side, and we have many a talk together on the march.

"July 4. To guard against surprises, we are all warned to pay especial attention to the beat
of the drum; always halting when we hear the long roll beat, and marching at the beat of the
long march. We are more on the alert regarding the enemy now. We have our advanced pickets
doubled, and two sentries at every post. The men on the advanced pickets are constantly under
arms, with fixed bayonets, all through the night, and relieved every two hours. The half that
are relieved lie down by their arms, but are not suffered to leave their pickets. 'Tis evident
that we are drawing near to the enemy now. This packet goes out with the General's to Colonel
Dunbar's camp, who is thirty miles behind us; and will be carried thence to Frederick, and
thence to my honoured mother's house at Castlewood, to whom I send my duty, with kindest remembrances,
as to all friends there, and how much love I need not say to my dearest brother from his affectionate
George E. Warrington."

The whole land was now lying parched and scorching in the July heat. For ten days no news had
come from the column advancing on the Ohio. Their march, though it toiled but slowly through
the painful forest, must bring ere long up with the enemy; the troops, led by consummate captains,
were accustomed now to the wilderness, and not afraid of surprise. Every precaution had been
taken against ambush. It was the outlying enemy who were discovered, pursued, destroyed, by
the vigilant scouts and skirmishers of the British force. The last news heard was that the
army had advanced considerably beyond the ground of Mr. Washington's discomfiture in the previous
year, and two days after must be within a day's march of the French fort. About taking it no
fears were entertained; the amount of the French reinforcements from Montreal was known. Mr.
Braddock, with his two veteran regiments from Britain, and their allies of Virginia and Pennsylvania,
was more than a match for any troops that could be collected under the white flag.

Such continued to be the talk, in the sparse towns of our Virginian province, at the gentry's
houses, and the rough road-side taverns, where people met and canvassed the war. The few messengers
sent back by the General reported well of the main force. It was thought the enemy would not
stand or defend himself at all. Had he intended to attack, he might have seized a dozen occasions
for assaulting our troops at passes through which they had been allowed to go entirely free.
So George had given up his favourite mare, like a hero as he was, and was marching a-foot with
the line. Madame Esmond vowed that he should have the best horse in Virginia or Carolina in
place of Roxana. There were horses enough to be had in the provinces, and for money. It was
only for the King's service that they were not forthcoming.

Although at their family meetings and repasts the inmates of Castlewood always talked cheerfully,
never anticipating any but a triumphant issue to the campaign, or acknowledging any feeling
of disquiet, yet it must be owned they were mighty uneasy when at home, quitting it ceaselessly,
and forever on the trot from one neighbour's house to another in quest of news. It was prodigious
how quickly reports ran and spread. For three weeks after the army's departure, the reports
regarding it were cheerful; and when our Castlewood friends met at their supper their tone
was confident and their news pleasant.

But on the 10th of July a vast and sudden gloom spread over the province. A look of terror
and doubt seemed to fall upon every face. Affrighted negroes wistfully eyed their masters and
retired, to hum and whisper with one another. The fiddles ceased in the quarters; the song
and laugh of those cheery black folk were hushed. Right and left everybody's servants were
on the gallop for news. The country taverns were thronged with horsemen, who drank and cursed
and brawled at the bars, each bringing his gloomy story. The army had been surprised. The troops
had fallen into an ambuscade, and had been cut up almost to a man. All the officers were taken
down by the French marksmen and the savages. The General had been wounded, and carried off
the field in his sash. Four days afterwards the report was that the General was dead, and scalped
by a French Indian.

Ah, what a scream poor Mrs. Mountain gave when Gumbo brought this news from across the James
River, and little Fanny sprang crying to her mother's arms! "Lord God Almighty, watch over
us, and defend my boy!" said Mrs. Esmond, sinking down on her knees and lifting her rigid hands
to heaven. The gentlemen were not at home when the rumour arrived, but they came in an hour
or two afterwards, each from his hunt for news. The Scotch tutor did not dare to meet the widow's
agonising looks. Harry Warrington was as pale as his mother. It might not be true about the
manner of the General's death--but he was dead. The army had been surprised by Indians, and
had fled, and been killed without seeing the enemy. An express had arrived from Dunbar's camp.
Fugitives were pouring in there. Should he go and see? He must go and see. He and stout little
Dempster armed themselves and mounted, taking a couple of mounted servants with them.

They followed the northward track which the expeditionary army had hewed out for itself, and
at every step which brought them nearer to the scene of action, the disaster of the fearful
day seemed to magnify. The day after the defeat a number of the miserable fugitives from the
fatal battle of the 9th of July had reached Dunbar's camp, fifty miles from the field. Thither
poor Harry and his companions rode, stopping stragglers, asking news, giving money, getting
from one and all the same gloomy tale. A thousand men were slain--two-thirds of the officers
were down--all the General's aides-de-camp were hit. Were hit--but were they killed? Those
who fell never rose again. The tomahawk did its work upon them. Oh, brother brother! All the
fond memories of their youth, all the dear remembrances of their childhood, the love and the
laughter, the tender romantic vows which they had pledged to each other as lads, were recalled
by Harry with pangs inexpressibly keen. Wounded men looked up and were softened by his grief;
rough men melted as they saw the woe written on the handsome young face; the hardy old tutor
could scarcely look at him for tears, and grieved for him even more than for his dear pupil,
who, he believed, lay dead under the savage Indian knife.

At every step which Harry Warrington took towards Pennsylvania the reports of the British disaster
were magnified and confirmed. Those two famous regiments which had fought in the Scottish and
Continental wars had fled from an enemy almost unseen, and their boasted discipline and valour
had not enabled them to face a band of savages and a few French infantry. The unfortunate commander
of the expedition had shown the utmost bravery and resolution.

Four times his horse had been shot under him. Twice he had been wounded, and the last time
of the mortal hurt which ended his life three days after the battle. More than one of Harry's
informants described the action to the poor lad,--the passage of the river, the long line of
advance through the wilderness, the firing in front, the vain struggle of the men to advance,
and the artillery to clear the way of the enemy; then the ambushed fire from behind every bush
and tree, and the murderous fusillade, by which at least half of the expeditionary force had
been shot down. But not all the General's suite were killed, Harry heard. One of his aides-de-camp,
a Virginian gentleman, was ill of fever and exhaustion at Dunbar's camp.

One of them--but which? To the camp Harry hurried, and reached it at length. It was George
Washington Harry found stretched in a tent there, and not his brother. A sharper pain than
that of the fever Mr. Washington declared he felt, when he saw Harry Warrington, and could
give him no news of George.

Mr. Washington did not dare to tell Harry all. For three days after the fight his duty had
been to be near the General. On the fatal 9th of July he had seen George go to the front with
orders from the chief, to whose side he never returned. After Braddock himself died, the aide-de-camp
had found means to retrace his course to the field. The corpses which remained there were stripped
and horribly mutilated. One body he buried which he thought to be George Warrington's. His
own illness was increased, perhaps occasioned, by the anguish which he underwent in his search
for the unhappy volunteer.

"Ah, George! If you had loved him you would have found him dead or alive," Harry cried out.
Nothing would satisfy him but that he, too, should go to the ground and examine it. With money
he procured a guide or two. He forded the river at the place where the army had passed over;
he went from one end to the other of the dreadful field. The horrible spectacle of mutilation
caused him to turn away with shudder and loathing. What news could the vacant woods, or those
festering corpses lying under the trees, give the lad of his lost brother? He was for going,
unarmed, with a white flag, to the French fort, whither, after their victory, the enemy had
returned; but his guides refused to advance with him. The French might possibly respect them,
but the Indians would not. "Keep your hair for your lady-mother, my young gentleman," said
the guide. "Tis enough that she loses one son in this campaign."

When Harry returned to the English encampment at Dunbar's it was his turn to be down with the
fever. Delirium set in upon him, and he lay some time in the tent and on the bed from which
his friend had just risen convalescent. For some days he did not know who watched him; and
poor Dempster, who had tended him in more than one of these maladies, thought the widow must
lose both her children; but the fever was so far subdued that the boy was enabled to rally
somewhat, and get on horseback. Mr. Washington and Dempster both escorted him home. It was
with a heavy heart, no doubt, that all three beheld once more the gates of Castlewood.

A servant in advance had been sent to announce their coming. First came Mrs. Mountain and her
little daughter, welcoming Harry with many tears and embraces; but she scarce gave a nod of
recognition to Mr. Washington; and the little girl caused the young officer to start, and turn
deadly pale, by coming up to him with her hands behind her, and asking, "Why have you not brought
George back, too?"

Dempster was graciously received by the two ladies. "Whatever could be done, we know you would
do, Mr. Dempster," says Mrs. Mountain, giving him her hand. "Make a curtsey to Mr. Dempster,
Fanny, and remember, child, to be grateful to all who have been friendly to our benefactors.
Will it please you to take any refreshment before you ride, Colonel Washington?"

Mr. Washington had had a sufficient ride already, and counted as certainly upon the hospitality
of Castlewood as he would upon the shelter of his own house.

"The time to feed my horse, and a glass of water for myself, and I will trouble Castlewood
hospitality no farther," Mr. Washington said.

"Sure, George, you have your room here, and my mother is above stairs getting it ready!" cries
Harry. "That poor horse of yours stumbled with you, and can't go farther this evening."

"Hush! Your mother won't see him, child," whispered Mrs. Mountain.

"Not see George? Why, he is like a son of the house," cries Harry.

"She had best not see him. I don't meddle any more in family matters, child; but when the Colonel's
servant rode in, and said you were coming, Madame Esmond left this room and said she felt she
could not see Mr. Washington. Will you go to her?" Harry took Mrs. Mountain's arm, and excusing
himself to the Colonel, to whom he said he would return in a few minutes, he left the parlour
in which they had assembled, and went to the upper rooms, where Madame Esmond was.

He was hastening across the corridor, and, with an averted head, passing by one especial door,
which he did not like to look at, for it was that of his brother's room; and as he came to
it, Madame Esmond issued from it, and folded him to her heart, and led him in. A settee was
by the bed, and a book of psalms lay on the coverlet. All the rest of the room was exactly
as George had left it.

"My poor child! How thin thou art grown--how haggard you look! Never mind. A mother's care
will make thee well again. 'Twas nobly done to go and brave sickness and danger in search of
your brother. Had others been as faithful, he might be here now. Never mind, my Harry; our
hero will come back to us. I know he is not dead. He will come back to us, I know he will come."
And when Harry pressed her to give a reason for her belief, she said she had seen her father
two nights running in a dream, and he had told her that her boy was a prisoner among the Indians.

Madame Esmond's grief had not prostrated her as Harry's had when first it fell upon him; it
had rather stirred and animated her; her eyes were eager, her countenance angry and revengeful.
The lad wondered almost at the condition in which he found his mother.

But when he besought her to go downstairs, and give her a hand of welcome to George Washington,
who had accompanied him, the lady's excitement painfully increased. She said she should shudder
at touching his hand. She declared Mr. Washington had taken her son from her; she could not
sleep under the same roof with him.

"No gentleman," cried Harry, warmly, "was ever refused shelter under my grandfather's roof."

"Oh, no, gentlemen!" exclaims the little widow; "well let us go down, if you like, son, and
pay our respects to this one. Will you please to give us your arm?" and taking an arm which
was very little able to give her support, she walked down the broad stairs and into the apartment
where the Colonel sat.

She made him a ceremonious curtsey, and extended one of the little hands, which she allowed
for a moment to rest in his. "I wish that our meeting had been happier, Colonel Washington,"
she said.

"You do not grieve more than I do that it is otherwise, Madame," said the Colonel.

"I might have wished that the meeting had been spared, that I might not have kept you from
friends whom you are naturally anxious to see, that my boy's indisposition had not detained
you. Home and his good nurse Mountain, and his mother and our good Dr. Dempster will soon restore
him. 'Twas scarce necessary, Colonel, that you who have so many affairs on your hands, military
and domestic, should turn doctor too."

"Harry was ill and weak, and I thought it was my duty to ride by him," faltered the Colonel.

"You yourself, sir, have gone through the fatigues and dangers of the campaign in the most
wonderful manner," said the widow, curtseying again, and looking at him with her impenetrable
black eyes.

"I wish to Heaven, Madame, someone else had come back in my place!"

"Nay, sir, you have ties which must render your life more than ever valuable and dear to you,
and duties to which, I know, you must be anxious to betake yourself. In our present deplorable
state of doubt and distress Castlewood can be a welcome place to no stranger, much less to
you, and so I know, sir, you will be for leaving us ere long. And you will pardon me if the
state of my own spirits obliges me for the most part to keep my chamber. But my friends here
will bear you company as long as you favour us, whilst I nurse my poor Harry upstairs. Mountain!
you will have the cedar room on the ground floor ready for Mr. Washington and anything in the
house is at his command. Farewell, sir. Will you be pleased to present my compliments to your
mother, who will be thankful to have her son safe and sound out of the war?--as also to my
young friend, Martha Custis, to whom and to whose children I wish every happiness. Come, my
son!" and with these words, and another freezing curtsey, the pale little woman retreated,
looking steadily at the Colonel, who stood dumb on the floor.

Strong as Madame Esmond's belief appeared to be respecting her son's safety, the house of Castlewood
naturally remained sad and gloomy. To look for George was hoping against hope. No authentic
account of his death had indeed arrived, and no one appeared who had seen him fall, but hundreds
more had been so stricken on that fatal day, with no eyes to behold their last pangs, save
those of the lurking enemy and the comrades dying by their side. A fortnight after the defeat,
when Harry was absent on his quest, George's servant, Sady, reappeared, wounded and maimed,
at Castlewood. But he could give no coherent account of the battle, only of his flight from
the centre, where he was with the baggage. He had no news of his master since the morning of
the action. For many days Sady lurked in the negro quarters away from the sight of Madame Esmond,
whose anger he did not dare to face. That lady's few neighbours spoke of her as labouring under
a delusion. So strong was it that there were times when Harry and the other members of the
little Castlewood family were almost brought to share in it. No. George was not dead; George
was a prisoner among the Indians; George would come back and rule over Castlewood; as sure,
as sure as his Majesty would send a great force from home to recover the tarnished glory of
the British arms, and to drive the French out of the Americas.

As for Mr. Washington, she would never, with her own good will, behold him again. He had promised
to guard George's life with his own, and where was her boy.

So, if Harry wanted to meet his friend, he had to do so in secret. Madame Esmond was exceedingly
excited when she heard that the Colonel and her son absolutely had met, and said to Harry,
"How you can talk, sir, of loving George, and then go and meet your Mr. Washington, I can't
understand."

So there was not only grief in the Castlewood House, but there was disunion. As a result of
the gloom, and of his grief for the loss of his brother, Harry was again and again struck down
by the fever, and all the Jesuits' bark in America could not cure him. They had a tobacco-house
and some land about the new town of Richmond, and he went thither and there mended a little,
but still did not get quite well, and the physicians strongly counselled a sea-voyage. Madame
Esmond at one time had thoughts of going with him, but, as she and Harry did not agree very
well, though they loved each other very heartily, 'twas determined that Harry should see the
world for himself.

Accordingly he took passage on the "Young Rachel," Virginian ship, Edward Franks master. She
proceeded to Bristol and moored as near as possible to Trail's wharf, to which she was consigned.
Mr. Trail, who could survey his ship from his counting-house windows, straightway took boat
and came up her side, and gave the hand of welcome to Captain Franks, congratulating the Captain
upon the speedy and fortunate voyage which he had made.

Franks was a pleasant man, who loved a joke. "We have," says he, "but yonder ugly negro boy,
who is fetching the trunks, and a passenger who has the state cabin to himself."

Mr. Trail looked as if he would have preferred more mercies from Heaven. "Confound you, Franks,
and your luck! The 'Duke William,' which came in last week, brought fourteen, and she is not
half of our tonnage."

"And this passenger, who has the whole cabin, don't pay nothin'," continued the Captain. "Swear
now, it will do you good, Mr. Trail, indeed it will. I have tried the medicine."

"A passenger take the whole cabin and not pay? Gracious mercy, are you a fool, Captain Franks?"

"Ask the passenger himself, for here he comes." And as the master spoke, a young man of some
nineteen years of age came up the hatchway. He had a cloak and a sword under his arm, and was
dressed in deep mourning, and called out, "Gumbo, you idiot, why don't you fetch the baggage
out of the cabin? Well, shipmate, our journey is ended. You will see all the little folks to-night
whom you have been talking about. Give my love to Polly, and Betty, and little Tommy; not forgetting
my duty to Mrs. Franks. I thought, yesterday, the voyage would never be done, and now I am
almost sorry it is over. That little berth in my cabin looks very comfortable now I am going
to leave it."

Mr. Trail scowled at the young passenger who had paid no money for his passage. He scarcely
nodded his head to the stranger, when Captain Franks said: "This here gentleman is Mr. Trail,
sir, whose name you have a-heerd of."

"It's pretty well known in Bristol, sir," says Mr. Trail, majestically.

"And this is Mr. Warrington, Madame Esmond Warrington's son, of Castlewood," continued the Captain.

The British merchant's hat was instantly off his head, and the owner of the beaver was making
a prodigious number of bows, as if a crown-prince were before him.

"Gracious powers, Mr. Warrington! This is a delight, indeed! What a crowning mercy that your
voyage should have been so prosperous! You have my boat to go on shore. Let me cordially and
respectfully welcome you to England! Let me shake your hand as the son of my benefactress and
patroness, Mrs. Esmond Warrington, whose name is known and honoured on Bristol 'Change, I warrant
you. Isn't it, Franks?"

"There's no sweeter tobacco comes from Virginia," says Mr. Franks, drawing a great brass tobacco-box
from his pocket, and thrusting a quid into his jolly mouth. "You don't know what a comfort
it is, sir; you'll take to it, bless you, as you grow older. Won't he, Mr. Trail? I wish you
had ten shiploads of it instead of one. You might have ten shiploads; I've told Madame Esmond
so; I've rode over her plantation; she treats me like a lord when I go to the house. She is
a real-born lady, she is; and might have a thousand hogsheads as easy as her hundreds, if there
were but hands enough."

"I have lately engaged in the Guinea trade, and could supply her ladyship with any number of
healthy young negroes before next fall," said Mr. Trail, obsequiously.

"We are averse to the purchase of negroes from Africa," said the young gentleman, coldly. "My
grandfather and my mother have always objected to it, and I do not like to think of selling
or buying the poor wretches."

"It is for their good, my dear young sir! We purchased the poor creatures only for their benefit;
let me talk this matter over with you at my own house. I can introduce you to a happy home,
a Christian family, and a British merchant's honest fare. Can't I, Captain Franks?"

"Can't say," growled the Captain. "Never asked me to take bite or sup at your table. Asked
me to psalm-singing once, and to hear Mr. Ward preach: don't care for them sort of entertainments."

Not choosing to take any notice of this remark, Mr. Trail continued in his low tone: "Business
is business, my dear young sir, and I know 'tis only my duty, the duty of all of us, to cultivate
the fruits of the earth in their season. As the heir of Lady Esmond's estate--for I speak,
I believe, to the heir of the great property?"

The young gentleman made a bow.

"I would urge upon you, at the very earliest moment, the duty of increasing the ample means
with which Heaven has blessed you. As an honest factor, I could not do otherwise: as a prudent
man, should I scruple to speak of what will tend to your profit and mine? No, my dear Mr. George."

"My name is not George; my name is Henry," said the young man as he turned his head away, and
his eyes filled with tears.

"Gracious powers! what do you mean, sir? Did you not say you were my lady's heir, and is not
George Esmond Warrington, Esq.--?"

"Hold your tongue, you fool!" cried Mr. Franks, striking the merchant a tough blow on his sleek
sides, as the young lad turned away. "Don't you see the young gentleman a-swabbing his eyes,
and note his black clothes?"

"What do you mean, Captain Franks, by laying your hand on your owners? Mr. George is the heir;
I know the Colonel's will well enough."

"Mr. George is there," said the Captain, pointing with his thumb to the deck.

"Where?" cries the factor.

"Mr. George is there!" reiterated the Captain, again lifting up his finger towards the topmast,
or the sky beyond. "He is dead a year, sir, come next 9th of July. He would go out with General
Braddock on that dreadful business to the Belle Riviere. He and a thousand more never came
back again. Every man of them was murdered as he fell. You know the Indian way, Mr. Trail?"
And here the Captain passed his hand rapidly round his head.

"Horrible! ain't it, sir? Horrible! He was a fine young man, the very picture of this one;
only his hair was black, which is now hanging in a bloody Indian wigwam. He was often and often
on board of the 'Young Rachel,' and would have his chests of books broke open on deck before
they landed. He was a shy and silent young gent, not like this one, which was the merriest,
wildest young fellow, full of his songs and fun. He took on dreadful at the news; went to his
bed, had that fever which lays so many of 'em by the heels along that swampy Potomac, but he's
got better on the voyage: the voyage makes everyone better; and, in course, the young gentleman
can't be forever a-crying after a brother who dies and leaves him a great fortune. Ever since
we sighted Ireland he has been quite gay and happy, only he would go off at times when he was
most merry, saying, 'I wish my dearest Georgie could enjoy this here sight along with me,'
and when you mentioned t'other's name, you see, he couldn't stand it." And the honest Captain's
own eyes filled with tears, as he turned and looked towards the object of his compassion.

Mr. Trail assumed a sad expression befitting the tragic compliment with which he prepared to
greet the young Virginian; but the latter answered him very curtly, declining his offers of
hospitality, and only stayed in Mr. Trail's house long enough to drink a glass of wine and
to take up a sum of money of which he stood in need. But he and Captain Franks parted on the
very warmest terms, and all the little crew of the "Young Rachel" cheered from the ship's side
as their passenger left it.

Again and again Harry Warrington and his brother had pored over the English map, and determined
upon the course which they should take upon arriving at Home. All Americans of English ancestry
who love their mother country have rehearsed their English travels, and visited in fancy the
spots with which their hopes, their parents' fond stories, their friends' descriptions, have
rendered them familiar. There are few things to me more affecting in the history of the quarrel
which divided the two great nations than the recurrence of that word Home, as used by the younger
towards the elder country. Harry Warrington had his chart laid out. Before London, and its
glorious temples of St. Paul's and St. Peter's; its grim Tower, where the brave and loyal had
shed their blood, from Wallace down to Balmerino and Kilmarnock, pitied by gentle hearts; before
the awful window at Whitehall, whence the martyr Charles had issued, to kneel once more, and
then ascended to Heaven; before playhouses, parks, and palaces, wondrous resorts of wit, pleasure
and splendour; before Shakespeare's resting-place under the tall spire which rises by Avon,
amidst the sweet Warwickshire pastures; before Derby, and Falkirk, and Culloden, where the
cause of honour and loyalty had fallen, it might be to rise no more: before all these points
in their pilgrimage there was one which the young Virginian brothers held even more sacred,
and that was the home of their family, that old Castlewood in Hampshire, about which their
parents had talked so fondly. From Bristol to Bath, from Bath to Salisbury, to Winchester,
to Hexton, to Home; they knew the way, and had mapped the journey many and many a time.

We must fancy our American traveller to be a handsome young fellow, whose suit of sables only
makes him look the more interesting. The plump landlady looked kindly after the young gentleman
as he passed through the inn-hall from his post-chaise, and the obsequious chamberlain bowed
him upstairs to the "Rose" or the "Dolphin." The trim chambermaid dropped her best curtsey
for his fee, and Gumbo, in the inn-kitchen, where the townsfolk drank their mug of ale by the
great fire, bragged of his young master's splendid house in Virginia, and of the immense wealth
to which he was heir. The post-chaise whirled the traveller through the most delightful home
scenery his eyes had ever lighted on. If English landscape is pleasant to the American of the
present day, who must needs contrast the rich woods and growing pastures and picturesque ancient
villages of the old country with the rough aspect of his own, how much pleasanter must Harry
Warrington's course have been, whose journeys had lain through swamps and forest solitudes
from one Virginian ordinary to another log-house at the end of the day's route, and who now
lighted suddenly upon the busy, happy, splendid scene of English summer? And the high-road,
a hundred years ago, was not that grass-grown desert of the present time. It was alive with
constant travel and traffic: the country towns and inns swarmed with life and gaiety. The ponderous
waggon, with its bells and plodding team; the light post-coach that achieved the journey from
the "White Hart," Salisbury, to the "Swan with Two Necks," London, in two days; the strings
of pack-horses that had not yet left the road; my lord's gilt post-chaise and six, with the
outriders galloping on ahead; the country squire's great coach and heavy Flanders mares; the
farmers trotting to market, or the parson jolting to the cathedral town on Dumpling, his wife
behind on the pillion--all these crowding sights and brisk people greeted the young traveller
on his summer journey. Hodge, the farmer's boy, took off his hat, and Polly, the milk-maid,
bobbed a curtsey, as the chaise whirled over the pleasant village-green, and the white-headed
children lifted their chubby faces and cheered. The church-spires glistened with gold, the
cottage-gables glared in sunshine, the great elms murmured in summer, or cast purple shadows
over the grass. Young Warrington never had had such a glorious day, or witnessed a scene so
delightful. To be nineteen years of age, with high health, high spirits, and a full purse,
to be making your first journey, and rolling through the country in a post-chaise at nine miles
an hour--Oh, happy youth! almost it makes one young to think of him!

And there let us leave him at Castlewood Inn, on ground hallowed by the footsteps of his ancestors.
There he stands, with new scenes, new friends, new experiences ahead, rich in hope, in expectation,
and in the enthusiasm of youth--youth that comes but once, and is so fleet of foot!

And still more glad would he have been had he known that the near future was to verify his
mother's belief; to restore to him the twin-brother now mourned as dead. And glad are we, in
looking beyond this story of boyhood days, to find that though in the Revolutionary War the
subjects of this sketch fought on different sides in the quarrel, they came out peacefully
at its conclusion, as brothers should, their love never having materially diminished, however
angrily the contest divided them.

The colonel in scarlet and the general in blue and buff hang side by side in the wainscoted
parlour of the Warringtons in England, and the portraits are known by the name of "The Virginians."

BECKY SHARP AT SCHOOL

While the last century was in its teens, and on one sunshiny morning in June, there drove up
to the great iron gate of Miss Pinkerton's Academy for young ladies, on Chiswick Mall, a large
family coach, with two fat horses in blazing harness, driven by a fat coachman in a three-cornered
hat and wig, at the rate of four miles an hour. A black servant, who reposed on the box beside
the fat coachman, uncurled his bandy legs as soon as the equipage drew up opposite Miss Pinkerton's
shining brass plate; and as he pulled the bell at least a score of young heads were seen peering
out of the narrow windows of the stately old brick house. Nay, the acute observer might have
recognised the little red nose of good-natured Miss Jemima Pinkerton herself, rising over some
geranium-pots in the window of that lady's own drawing-room. "It is Mrs. Sedley's coach, sister,"
said Miss Jemima. "Sambo, the black servant, has just rung the bell; and the coachman has a
new red waistcoat."

"Have you completed all the necessary preparations incident to Miss Sedley's departure, Miss
Jemima?" asked Miss Pinkerton, that majestic lady, the friend of the famous literary man, Dr.
Johnson, the author of the great Dixonary of the English language, called commonly the great
Lexicographer.

"The girls were up at four this morning, packing her trunks, sister," replied Miss Jemima;
"we have made her a bow-pot."

"Say a bouquet, sister Jemima, 'tis more genteel."

"Well, a booky as big almost as a hay-stack; I have put up two bottles of the gillyflower-water
for Mrs. Sedley, and the receipt for making it, in Amelia's box."

"And I trust, Miss Jemima, you have made a copy of Miss Sedley's account. This is it, is it?
Very good--ninety-three pounds, four shillings. Be kind enough to address it to John Sedley,
Esquire, and to seal this billet which I have written to his lady."

In Miss Jemima's eyes an autograph letter of her sister, Miss Pinkerton, was an object of as
deep veneration as would have been a letter from a sovereign. Only when her pupils quitted
the establishment, or when they were about to be married, and once, when poor Miss Birch died
of the scarlet fever, was Miss Pinkerton known to write personally to the parents of her pupils;
and it was Jemima's opinion that if anything could have consoled Mrs. Birch for her daughter's
loss, it would have been that pious and eloquent composition in which Miss Pinkerton announced
the event.

In the present instance Miss Pinkerton's "billet" was to the following effect:

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MALL, CHISWICK, June 15, 18--.

Madam: After her six years' residence at the Mall, I have the honour and happiness of presenting
Miss Amelia Sedley to her parents, as a young lady not unworthy to occupy a fitting position
in their polished and refined circle. Those virtues which characterise the young English gentlewoman;
those accomplishments which become her birth and station, will not be found wanting in the
amiable Miss Sedley, whose industry and obedience have endeared her to her instructors, and
whose delightful sweetness of temper has charmed her aged and her youthful companions.

In music, dancing, in orthography, in every variety of embroidery and needle-work, she will
be found to have realised her friends' fondest wishes. In geography there is still much to
be desired; and a careful and undeviating use of the back-board, for four hours daily during
the next three years is recommended as necessary to the acquirement of that dignified deportment
and carriage so requisite for every young lady of fashion.

In the principles of religion and morality, Miss Sedley will be found worthy of an establishment
which has been honoured by the presence of The Great Lexicographer, and the patronage of the
admirable Mrs. Chapone. In leaving them all, Miss Amelia carries with her the hearts of her
companions, and the affectionate regards of her mistress, who has the honour to subscribe herself,
Madam, your most obliged humble servant,

BARBARA PINKERTON.

P.S.--Miss Sharp accompanies Miss Sedley. It is particularly requested that Miss Sharp's stay
in Russell Square may not exceed ten days. The family of distinction with whom she is engaged
as governess desire to avail themselves of her services as soon as possible.

       *       *       *       *       *

This letter completed, Miss Pinkerton proceeded to write her own name and Miss Sedley's in
the fly-leaf of a Johnson's Dictionary, the interesting work which she invariably presented
to her scholars on their departure from the Mall. On the cover was inserted a copy of "Lines
addressed to a young lady on quitting Miss Pinkerton's school, at the Mall; by the late revered
Dr. Samuel Johnson." In fact, the Lexicographer's name was always on the lips of this majestic
woman, and a visit he had paid to her was the cause of her reputation and her fortune.

Being commanded by her elder sister to get The Dixonary from the cupboard, Miss Jemima had
extracted two copies of the book from the receptacle in question. When Miss Pinkerton had finished
the inscription in the first, Jemima, with rather a dubious and timid air handed her the second.

"For whom is this, Miss Jemima?" said Miss Pinkerton, with awful coldness.

"For Becky Sharp," answered Jemima, trembling very much, and blushing over her withered face
and neck, as she turned her back on her sister. "For Becky Sharp. She's going, too."

"MISS JEMIMA!" exclaimed Miss Pinkerton, in the largest capitals. "Are you in your senses?
Replace the Dixonary in the closet, and never venture to take such a liberty in future."

"Well, sister, it's only two and nine-pence, and poor Becky will be miserable if she don't
get one."

"Send Miss Sedley instantly to me," was Miss Pinkerton's only answer. And, venturing not to
say another word, poor Jemima trotted off, exceedingly flurried and nervous, while the two
pupils, Miss Sedley and Miss Sharp, were making final preparation for their departure for Miss
Sedley's home.

Now, Miss Sedley's papa was a merchant in London, and a man of some wealth, whereas Miss Sharp
was only an articled pupil, for whom Miss Pinkerton had done, as she thought, quite enough,
without conferring upon her at parting the high honour of the dixonary. Miss Sharp's father
had been an artist, and in former years had given lessons in drawing at Miss Pinkerton's school.
He was a clever man, a pleasant companion, a careless student, with a great propensity for
running into debt, and a partiality for the tavern. As it was with the utmost difficulty that
he could keep himself, and as he owed money for a mile round Soho, where he lived, he thought
to better his circumstances by marrying a young woman of the French nation, who was by profession
an opera-girl, who had had some education somewhere, and her daughter Rebecca spoke French
with purity and a Parisian accent. It was in those days rather a rare accomplishment, and led
to her engagement with the orthodox Miss Pinkerton. For, her mother being dead, her father,
finding himself fatally ill, as a consequence of his bad habits, wrote a manly and pathetic
letter to Miss Pinkerton, recommending the orphan child to her protection, and so descended
to the grave, after two bailiffs had quarrelled over his corpse. Rebecca was seventeen when
she came to Chiswick, and was bound over as an articled pupil; her duties being to talk French,
as we have seen; and her privileges to live cost free, and with a few guineas a year, to gather
scraps of knowledge from the professors who attended the school.

She was small, and slight in person; pale, sandy-haired, and with eyes almost habitually cast
down. When they looked up, they were very large, odd, and attractive. By the side of many tall
and bouncing young ladies in the establishment Rebecca Sharp looked like a child. But she had
the dismal precocity of poverty. Many a dun had she talked to, and turned away from her father's
door; many a tradesman had she coaxed and wheedled into good-humour, and into the granting
of one meal more. She had sat commonly with her father, who was very proud of her wit, and
heard the talk of many of his wild companions, often but ill-suited for a girl to hear; but
she had never been a girl, she said; she had been a woman since she was eight years old.

Miss Jemima, however, believed her to be the most innocent creature in the world, so admirably
did Rebecca play the part of a child on the occasions when her father brought her to Chiswick
as a young girl, and only a year before her father's death, and when she was sixteen years
old, Miss Pinkerton majestically and with a little speech made her a present of a doll, which
was, by the way, the confiscated property of Miss Swindle, discovered surreptitiously nursing
it in school-hours. How the father and daughter laughed as they trudged home together after
the evening party, and how Miss Pinkerton would have raged had she seen the caricature of herself
which the little mimic, Rebecca, managed to make out of the doll. Becky used to go through
dialogues with it; it formed the delight of the circle of young painters who frequented the
studio, who used regularly to ask Rebecca if Miss Pinkerton was at home. Once Rebecca had the
honour to pass a few days at Chiswick, after which she brought back another doll which she
called Miss Jemmy; for, though that honest creature had made and given her jelly and cake enough
for three children, and a seven-shillings piece at parting, the girl's sense of ridicule was
far stronger than her gratitude; and she sacrificed Miss Jemmy as pitilessly as her sister.

Then came the ending of Becky's studio days, and, an orphan, she was transplanted to the Mall
as her home.

The rigid formality of the place suffocated her; the prayers and meals, the lessons and the
walks, which were arranged with the regularity of a convent, oppressed her almost beyond endurance;
and she looked back to the freedom and the beggary of her father's old studio with bitter regret.
She had never mingled in the society of women: her father, reprobate as he was, was a man of
talent; his conversation was a thousand times more agreeable to her than the silly chat and
scandal of the schoolgirls, and the frigid correctness of the governesses equally annoyed her.
She had no soft maternal heart, this unlucky girl. The prattle of the younger children, with
whose care she was chiefly entrusted, might have soothed and interested her; but she lived
among them two years, and not one was sorry that she went away. The gentle, tender-hearted
Amelia Sedley was the only person to whom she could attach herself in the least; and who could
help attaching herself to Amelia?

The happiness, the superior advantages of the young women round about her, gave Rebecca inexpressible
pangs of envy. "What airs that girl gives herself, because she is an Earl's granddaughter,"
she said of one. "How they cringe and bow to the Creole, because of her hundred thousand pounds.
I am a thousand times cleverer and more charming than that creature, for all her wealth. I
am as well bred as the Earl's granddaughter, for all her fine pedigree; and yet everyone passes
me by here."

She determined to get free from the prison in which she found herself, and now began to act
for herself, and for the first time to make connected plans for the future.

She took advantage, therefore, of the means of study the place offered her; and as she was
already a musician and a good linguist, she speedily went through the little course of study
considered necessary for ladies in those days. Her music she practised incessantly; and one
day, when the girls were out, and she remained at home, she was overheard to play a piece so
well that Miss Minerva thought, wisely, she could spare herself the expense of a master for
the juniors, and intimated to Miss Sharp that she was to instruct them in music for the future.

The girl refused; and for the first time, and to the astonishment of the majestic mistress
of the school. "I am here to speak French with the children," Rebecca said abruptly, "not to
teach them music, and save money for you. Give me money, and I will teach them."

Miss Minerva was obliged to yield, and of course disliked her from that day. "For five-and-thirty
years," she said, and with great justice, "I never have seen the individual who has dared in
my own house to question my authority. I have nourished a viper in my bosom."

"A viper--a fiddlestick!" said Miss Sharp to the old lady, who was almost fainting with astonishment.
"You took me because I was useful. There is no question of gratitude between us. I hate this
place, and want to leave it. I will do nothing here but what I am obliged to do."

It was in vain that the old lady asked her if she was aware she was speaking to Miss Pinkerton?
Rebecca laughed in her face. "Give me a sum of money," said the girl, "and get rid of me. Or,
if you like better, get me a good place as governess in a nobleman's family. You can do so
if you please." And in their further disputes she always returned to this point: "Get me a
situation--I am ready to go."

Worthy Miss Pinkerton, although she had a Roman nose and a turban, and was as tall as a grenadier,
and had been up to this time an irresistible princess, had no will or strength like that of
her little apprentice, and in vain did battle against her, and tried to overawe her. Attempting
once to scold her in public, Rebecca hit upon the plan of answering her in French, which quite
routed the old woman, who did not understand or speak that language. In order to maintain authority
in her school, it became necessary to remove this rebel, this firebrand; and hearing about
this time that Sir Pitt Crawley's family was in want of a governess, she actually recommended
Miss Sharp for the situation, firebrand and serpent as she was. "I cannot certainly," she said,
"find fault with Miss Sharp's conduct, except to myself; and must allow that her talents and
accomplishments are of a high order. As far as the head goes, at least, she does credit to
the educational system pursued at my establishment."

And so the schoolmistress reconciled the recommendation to her conscience, and the apprentice
was free. And as Miss Sedley, being now in her seventeenth year, was about to leave school,
and had a friendship for Miss Sharp ("'Tis the only point in Amelia's behaviour," said Miss
Minerva, "which has not been satisfactory to her mistress"), Miss Sharp was invited by her
friend to pass a week with her in London, before Becky entered upon her duties as governess
in a private family; which thoughtfulness on the part of Amelia was only an additional proof
of the girl's affectionate nature. In fact, Miss Amelia Sedley was a young lady who deserved
not only all that Miss Pinkerton said in her praise, but had many charming qualities which
that pompous old woman could not see, from the differences of rank and age between her pupil
and herself. She could not only sing like a lark, and dance divinely, and embroider beautifully,
and spell as well as a "Dixonary" itself, but she had such a kindly, smiling, tender, gentle,
generous heart of her own as won the love of everybody who came near her, from Miss Minerva
herself down to the poor girl in the scullery and the one-eyed tart woman's daughter, who was
permitted to vend her wares once a week to the young ladies in the Mall. She had twelve intimate
and bosom friends out of the twenty-four young ladies. Even envious Miss Briggs never spoke
ill of her: high and mighty Miss Saltire allowed that her figure was genteel; and as for Miss
Swartz, the rich woolly-haired mulatto from St. Kitts, on the day Amelia went away she was
in such a passion of tears that they were obliged to send for Dr. Floss, and half-tipsify her
with salvolatile. Miss Pinkerton's attachment was, as may be supposed, from the high position
and eminent virtues of that lady, calm and dignified; but Miss Jemima had already whimpered
several times at the idea of Amelia's departure; and but for fear of her sister would have
gone off in downright hysterics, like the heiress of St. Kitts.

As Amelia is not a heroine, there is no need to describe her person; indeed I am afraid that
her nose was rather short than otherwise, and her cheeks a great deal too round and red for
a heroine; but her face blushed with rosy health, and her lips with the freshest of smiles,
and she had a pair of eyes which sparkled with the brightest and honestest good-humour, except
indeed when they filled with tears, and that was a great deal too often; for the silly thing
would cry over a dead canary bird; or over a mouse that the cat haply had seized upon; or over
the end of a novel, were it ever so stupid; and as for saying an unkind word to her, were any
persons hard-hearted enough to do so--why so much the worse for them. Even Miss Pinkerton,
that austere woman, ceased scolding her after the first time, and, though she no more comprehended
sensibility than she did capital Algebra, gave all masters and teachers particular orders to
treat Miss Sedley with the utmost gentleness, as harsh treatment was injurious to her.

So that when the day of departure came, between her two customs of laughing and crying, Miss
Sedley was greatly puzzled how to act. She was glad to go home, and yet most woefully sad at
leaving school. For three days before, little Laura Martin, the orphan, followed her about
like a little dog. She had to make and receive at least fourteen presents, to make fourteen
solemn promises of writing every week.

"Send my letters under cover to my grandpa, the Earl of Dexter," said Miss Saltire.

"Never mind the postage, but write every day, you dear darling," said the impetuous and woolly-headed,
but generous and affectionate, Miss Schwartz; and little Laura Martin took her friend's hand
and said, looking up in her face wistfully, "Amelia, when I write to you I shall call you mamma."

All of these details, foolish and sentimental as they may seem, go to show the extreme popularity
and personal charm of Amelia.

Well then. The flowers, and the presents, and the trunks, and bonnet-boxes of Miss Sedley having
been arranged by Mr. Sambo in the carriage, together with a very small and weather-beaten old
cowskin trunk with Miss Sharp's card neatly nailed upon it, which was delivered by Sambo with
a grin, and packed by the coachman with a corresponding sneer, the hour for parting came; and
the grief of that moment was considerably lessened by the admirable discourse which Miss Pinkerton
addressed to her pupil. Not that the parting speech caused Amelia to philosophise, or that
it armed her in any way with a calmness, the result of argument; but it was intolerably dull,
and having the fear of her schoolmistress greatly before her eyes, Miss Sedley did not venture,
in her presence, to give way to any ablutions of private grief. A seed-cake and a bottle of
wine were produced in the drawing-room, as on the solemn occasions of the visits of parents,
and these refreshments being partaken of, Miss Sedley was at liberty to depart.

"You'll go in and say good-bye to Miss Pinkerton, Becky!" said Miss Jemima to that young lady,
of whom nobody took any notice, and who was coming downstairs with her own bandbox.

"I suppose I must," said Miss Sharp calmly, and much to the wonder of Miss Jemima; and the
latter, having knocked at the door, and receiving permission to come in, Miss Sharp advanced
in a very unconcerned manner, and said in French, and with a perfect accent, "Mademoiselle,
je viens vous faire mes adieux."

Miss Pinkerton did not understand French, as we know; she only directed those who did; but
biting her lips and throwing up her venerable and Roman-nosed head, she said: "Miss Sharp,
I wish you a good-morning." As she spoke, she waved one hand, both by way of adieu and to give
Miss Sharp an opportunity of shaking one of the fingers of the hand, which was left out for
that purpose.

Miss Sharp only folded her own hands with a very frigid smile and bow, and quite declined to
accept the proffered honour; on which Miss Pinkerton tossed up her turban more indignantly
than ever. In fact, it was a little battle between the young lady and the old one, and the
latter was worsted. "Heaven bless you, my child," she exclaimed, embracing Amelia, and scowling
the while over the girl's shoulder at Miss Sharp.

"Come away, Becky," said Miss Jemima, pulling the young woman away in great alarm, and the
drawing-room door closed upon them forever.

Then came the struggle and parting below. Words refuse to tell it. All the servants were there
in the hall--all the dear friends--all the young ladies--even the dancing master, who had just
arrived; and there was such a scuffling, and hugging, and kissing, and crying, with the hysterical
yoops of Miss Schwartz, the parlour boarder, from her room, as no pen can depict, and as the
tender heart would feign pass over. The embracing was over; they parted--that is, Miss Sedley
parted from her friends. Miss Sharp had demurely entered the carriage some minutes before.
Nobody cried for leaving her.

Sambo of the bandy legs slammed the carriage door on his young weeping mistress. He sprang
up behind the carriage.

"Stop!" cried Miss Jemima, rushing to the gate with a parcel.

"It's some sandwiches, my dear," she called to Amelia. "You may be hungry, you know; ... and
Becky--Becky Sharp--here's a book for you, that my sister--that is, I--Johnson's Dixonary,
you know; ... you mustn't leave us without that! Good-bye! Drive on, coachman!--God bless you!"

And the kind creature retreated into the garden, overcome with emotion.

But, lo! and just as the coach drove off, Miss Sharp suddenly put her pale face out of the
window, and flung the book back into the garden--flung it far and fast--watching it fall at
the feet of astonished Miss Jemima; then sank back in the carriage, exclaiming: "So much for
the 'Dixonary'; and, thank God, I am out of Chiswick!"

The shock of such an act almost caused Jemima to faint with terror.

"Well, I never--" she began. "What an audacious--" she gasped. Emotion prevented her from completing
either sentence.

The carriage rolled away; the great gates were closed; the bell rang for the dancing lesson.
The world is before the two young ladies; and so, farewell to Chiswick Mall.

CUFFS FIGHT WITH "FIGS"

Cuff's fight with Figs, and the unexpected issue of that contest, will long be remembered by
every man who was educated at Dr. Swishtail's famous school. The latter youth (who used to
be called Heigh-ho Dobbin, Gee-ho Dobbin, Figs, and by many other names indicative of puerile
contempt) was the quietest, the clumsiest, and, as it seemed, the dullest of all Dr. Swishtail's
young gentlemen. His parent was a grocer in the city: and it was bruited abroad that he was
admitted into Dr. Swishtails academy upon what are called "mutual principles"--that is to say,
the expenses of his board and schooling were defrayed by his father in goods, not money; and
he stood there--almost at the bottom of the school--in his scraggy corduroys and jacket, through
the seams of which his great big bones were bursting, as the representative of so many pounds
of tea, candles, sugar, mottled-soap, plums (of which a very mild proportion was supplied for
the puddings of the establishment), and other commodities. A dreadful day it was for young
Dobbin when one of the youngsters of the school, having run into the town upon a poaching excursion
for hardbake and polonies, espied the cart of Dobbin & Rudge, Grocers and Oilmen, Thames Street,
London, at the Doctor's door, discharging a cargo of the wares in which the firm dealt.

Young Dobbin had no peace after that. The jokes were frightful and merciless against him.

"Hullo, Dobbin," one wag would say, "here's good news in the paper. Sugar is ris', my boy."

Another would set a sum--"If a pound of mutton-candles cost sevenpence-halfpenny, how much
must Dobbin cost?" and a roar would follow from all the circle of young knaves, usher and all,
who rightly considered that the selling of goods by retail is a shameful and infamous practice,
meriting the contempt and scorn of all real gentlemen.

"Your father's only a merchant, Osborne," Dobbin said in private to the little boy who had
brought down the storm upon him. At which the latter replied haughtily, "My father's a gentleman,
and keeps his carriage;" and Mr. William Dobbin retreated to a remote out-house in the playground,
where he passed a half-holiday in the bitterest sadness and woe.

Now, William Dobbin, from an incapacity to acquire the rudiments of the Latin language, as
they are propounded in that wonderful book, the Eton Latin Grammar, was compelled to remain
among the very last of Dr. Swishtail's scholars, and was "taken down" continually by little
fellows with pink faces and pinafores when he marched up with the lower form, a giant amongst
them, with his downcast, stupefied look, his dog's-eared primer, and his tight corduroys. High
and low, all made fun of him. They sewed up those corduroys, tight as they were. They cut his
bed-springs. They upset buckets and benches, so that he might break his shins over them, which
he never failed to do. They sent him parcels, which, when opened, were found to contain the
paternal soap and candles. There was no little fellow but had his jeer and joke at Dobbin;
and he bore everything quite patiently, and was entirely dumb and miserable.

Cuff, on the contrary, was the great chief and dandy of the Swishtail Seminary. He smuggled
wine in. He fought the town-boys. Ponies used to come for him to ride home on Saturdays. He
had his top-boots in his room in which he used to hunt in the holidays. He had a gold repeater,
and took snuff like the Doctor. He had been to the Opera, and knew the merits of the principal
actors, preferring Mr. Kean to Mr. Kemble. He could knock you off forty Latin verses in an
hour. He could make French poetry. What else didn't he know, or couldn't he do? They said even
the Doctor himself was afraid of him.

Cuff, the unquestioned king of the school, ruled over his subjects, and bullied them, with
splendid superiority. This one blacked his shoes, that toasted his bread, others would fag
out, and give him balls at cricket during whole summer afternoons. Figs was the fellow whom
he despised most, and with whom, though always abusing him, and sneering at him, he scarcely
ever condescended to hold personal communication.

One day in private the two young gentlemen had had a difference. Figs, alone in the school-room,
was blundering over a home letter, when Cuff, entering, bade him go upon some message, of which
tarts were probably the subject.

"I can't," says Dobbin; "I want to finish my letter."

"You can't?" says Mr. Cuff, laying hold of that document (in which many words were scratched
out, many were misspelt, on which had been spent I don't know how much thought, and labour,
and tears; for the poor fellow was writing to his mother, who was fond of him, although she
was a grocer's wife, and lived in a back parlour in Thames Street). "You can't?" says Mr. Cuff.
"I should like to know why, pray? Can't you write to old Mother Figs tomorrow?"

"Don't call names," Dobbin said, getting off the bench, very nervous.

"Well, sir, will you go?" crowed the cock of the school.

"Put down the letter," Dobbin replied; "no gentleman readth letterth."

"Well, now will you go?" says the other.

"No, I won't. Don't strike, or I'll thmash you," roars out Dobbin, springing to a leaden inkstand,
and looking so wicked that Mr. Cuff paused, turned down his coat sleeves again, put his hands
into his pockets, and walked away with a sneer. But he never meddled personally with the grocer's
boy after that; though we must do him the justice to say he always spoke of Mr. Dobbin with
contempt behind his back.

Some time after this interview it happened that Mr. Cuff, on a sunshiny afternoon, was in the
neighbourhood of poor William Dobbin, who was lying under a tree in the playground, spelling
over a favourite copy of the "Arabian Nights" which he had--apart from the rest of the school,
who were pursuing their various sports--quite lonely, and almost happy.

Well, William Dobbin had for once forgotten the world, and was away with Sindbad the Sailor
in the Valley of Diamonds, or with Prince Ahmed and the Fairy Peribanou in that delightful
cavern where the Prince found her, and whither we should all like to make a tour, when shrill
cries, as of a little fellow weeping, woke up his pleasant reverie, and, looking up, he saw
Cuff before him, belabouring a little boy.

It was the lad who had peached upon him about the grocer's cart, but he bore little malice,
not at least towards the young and small. "How dare you, sir, break the bottle?" says Cuff
to the little urchin, swinging a yellow cricket-stump over him.

The boy had been instructed to get over the playground wall (at a selected spot where the broken
glass had been removed from the top, and niches made convenient in the brick), to run a quarter
of a mile, to purchase a pint of rum-shrub on credit, to brave all the Doctor's outlying spies,
and to clamber back into the playground again; during the performance of which feat his foot
had slipped, and the bottle broken, and the shrub had been spilt, and his pantaloons had been
damaged, and he appeared before his employer a perfectly guilty and trembling, though harmless,
wretch.

"How dare you, sir, break it?" says Cuff; "you blundering little thief. You drank the shrub,
and now you pretend to have broken the bottle. Hold out your hand, sir."

Down came the stump with a great heavy thump on the child's hand. A moan followed. Dobbin looked
up. The Fairy Peribanou had fled into the inmost cavern with Prince Ahmed; the Roc had whisked
away Sindbad, the Sailor, out of the Valley of Diamonds, out of sight, far into the clouds;
and there was every-day life before honest William; and a big boy beating a little one without
cause.

"Hold out your other hand, sir," roars Cuff to his little school-fellow, whose face was distorted
with pain. Dobbin quivered, and gathered himself up in his narrow old clothes.

"Take that, you little devil!" cried Mr. Cuff, and down came the wicket again on the child's
hand. Down came the wicket again, and Dobbin started up.

I can't tell what his motive was. Perhaps his foolish soul revolted against that exercise of
tyranny, or perhaps he had a hankering feeling of revenge in his mind, and longed to measure
himself against that splendid bully and tyrant, who had all the glory, pride, pomp, circumstance,
banners flying, drums beating, guards saluting, in the place. Whatever may have been his incentive,
however, up he sprang, and screamed out, "Hold off, Cuff; don't bully that child any more,
or I'll--"

"Or you'll what?" Cuff asked in amazement at this interruption. "Hold out your hand, you little
beast."

"I'll give you the worst thrashing you ever had in your life," Dobbin said, in reply to the
first part of Cuff's sentence; and the little lad, Osborne, gasping and in tears, looked up
with wonder and incredulity at seeing this amazing champion put up suddenly to defend him,
while Cuff's astonishment was scarcely less. Fancy our late monarch George III., when he heard
of the revolt of the North American colonies; fancy brazen Goliath when little David stepped
forward and claimed a meeting; and you have the feeling of Mr. Reginald Cuff when this encounter
was proposed to him.

"After school," says he, "of course," after a pause and a look, as much as to say, "Make your
will, and communicate your last wishes to your friends between this time and that."

"As you please," Dobbin said. "You must be my bottle-holder, Osborne."

"Well, if you like," little Osborne replied; for you see his papa kept a carriage, and he was
rather ashamed of his champion.

Yes, when the hour of battle came he was almost ashamed to say, "Go it, Figs"; and not a single
other boy in the place uttered that cry for the first two or three rounds of this famous combat;
at the commencement of which the scientific Cuff, with a contemptuous smile on his face, and
as light and as gay as if he was at a ball, planted his blows upon his adversary, and floored
that unlucky champion three times running. At each fall there was a cheer, and everybody was
anxious to have the honour of offering the conqueror a knee.

"What a licking I shall get when it's over," young Osborne thought, picking up his man. "You'd
best give in," he said to Dobbin; "it's only a thrashing, Figs, and you know I'm used to it."
But Figs, all whose limbs were in a quiver, and whose nostrils were breathing rage, put his
little bottle-holder aside, and went in for a fourth time.

As he did not in the least know how to parry the blows that were aimed at himself, and Cuff
had begun the attack on the three preceding occasions without ever allowing his enemy to strike,
Figs now determined that he would commence the engagement by a charge on his own part; and,
accordingly, being a left-handed man, brought that arm into action, and hit out a couple of
times with all his might--once at Mr. Cuff's left eye, and once on his beautiful Roman nose.

Cuff went down this time, to the astonishment of the assembly. "Well hit, by Jove," says little
Osborne, with the air of a connoisseur, clapping his man on the back. "Give it to him with
the left, Figs, my boy."

Figs's left made terrific play during all the rest of the combat. Cuff went down every time.
At the sixth round there were almost as many fellows shouting out, "Go it, Figs," as there
were youths exclaiming, "Go it, Cuff." At the twelfth round the latter champion was all abroad,
as the saying is, and had lost all presence of mind and power of attack or defence. Figs, on
the contrary, was as calm as a Quaker. His face being quite pale, his eyes shining open, and
a great cut on his under lip bleeding profusely, gave this young fellow a fierce and ghastly
air, which perhaps struck terror into many spectators. Nevertheless, his intrepid adversary
prepared to close for the thirteenth time.

If I had the pen of a Napier, or a Bell's Life, I should like to describe this combat properly.
It was the last charge of the Guard--(that is, it would have been, only Waterloo had not yet
taken place); it was Ney's column breasting the hill of La Haye Sainte, bristling with ten
thousand bayonets, and crowned with twenty eagles; it was the shout of the beef-eating British,
as, leaping down the hill, they rushed to hug the enemy in the savage arms of battle; in other
words, Cuff, coming up full of pluck, but quite reeling and groggy, the Fig-merchant put in
his left as usual on his adversary's nose, and sent him down for the last time.

"I think that will do for him," Figs said, as his opponent dropped as neatly on the green as
I have seen Jack Spot's ball plump into the pocket at billiards; and the fact is, when time
was called, Mr. Reginald Cuff was not able, or did not choose, to stand up again.

And now all the boys set up such a shout for Figs as would have made you think he had been
their darling champion through the whole battle; and as absolutely brought Dr. Swishtail out
of his study, curious to know the cause of the uproar. He threatened to flog Figs violently,
of course; but Cuff, who had come to himself by this time, and was washing his wounds, stood
up and said, "It's my fault, sir--not Figs's--not Dobbin's. I was bullying a little boy; and
he served me right." By which magnanimous speech he not only saved his conqueror a whipping,
but got back all his ascendancy over the boys which his defeat had nearly cost him.

Young Osborne wrote home to his parents an account of the transaction:

       *       *       *       *       *

SUGARCANE HOUSE, RICHMOND, March 18--

Dear Mamma: I hope you are quite well. I should be much obliged to you to send me a cake and
five shillings. There has been a fight here between Cuff & Dobbin. Cuff, you know, was the
Cock of the School. They fought thirteen rounds, and Dobbin Licked. So Cuff is now Only Second
Cock. The fight was about me. Cuff was licking me for breaking a bottle of milk, and Figs wouldn't
stand it. We call him Figs because his father is a Grocer--Figs & Rudge, Thames St., City.
I think as he fought for me you ought to buy your Tea & Sugar at his father's. Cuff goes home
every Saturday, but can't this, because he has 2 Black Eyes. He has a white Pony to come and
fetch him, and a groom and livery on a bay mare. I wish my Papa would let me have a Pony, and I am

Your dutiful Son,

GEORGE SEDLEY OSBORNE.

P.S.--Give my love to little Emmy. I am cutting her out a Coach in card-board. Please not a
seed-cake, but a plum-cake.

       *       *       *       *       *

In consequence of Dobbin's victory, his character rose prodigiously in the estimation of all
his school fellows, and the name of Figs, which had been a byword of reproach, became as respectable
and popular a nickname as any other in use in the school. "After all, it's not his fault that
his father's a grocer," George Osborne said, who, though a little chap, had a very high popularity
among the Swishtail youth; and his opinion was received with great applause. It was voted low
to sneer at Dobbin about this accident of birth. "Old Figs" grew to be a name of kindness and
endearment, and the sneak of an usher jeered at him no longer.

And Dobbin's spirit rose with his altered circumstances. He made wonderful advances in scholastic
learning. The superb Cuff himself, at whose condenscension Dobbin could only blush and wonder,
helped him on with his Latin verses, "coached" him in play-hours, carried him triumphantly
out of the little-boy class into the middle-sized form, and even there got a fair place for
him. It was discovered that, although dull at classical learning, at mathematics he was uncommonly
quick. To the contentment of all he passed third in Algebra, and got a French prize-book at
the public Midsummer examination. You should have seen his mother's face when Telemaque (that
delicious romance) was presented to him by the Doctor in the face of the whole school and the
parents and company, with an inscription to Guielmo Dobbin. All the boys clapped hands in token
of applause and sympathy. His blushes, his stumbles, his awkwardness, and the number of feet
which he crushed as he went back to his place, who shall describe or calculate? Old Dobbin,
his father, who now respected him for the first time, gave him two guineas publicly; most of
which he spent in a general tuck-out for the school: and he came back in a tail-coat after
the holidays.

Dobbin was much too modest a young fellow to suppose that this happy change in all his circumstances
arose from his own generous and manly disposition; he chose, from some perverseness, to attribute
his good fortune to the sole agency and benevolence of little George Osborne, to whom henceforth
he vowed such a love and affection as is only felt by children, an affection as we read of
in the charming fairy-book, which uncouth Orson had for splendid young Valentine, his conqueror.
He flung himself down at little Osborne's feet, and loved him. Even before they were acquainted,
he had admired Osborne in secret. Now he was his valet, his dog, his man Friday. He believed
Osborne to be the possessor of every perfection, to be the handsomest, the bravest, the most
active, the cleverest, the most generous of boys. He shared his money with him, bought him
uncountable presents of knives, pencil cases, gold seals, toffee, little warblers, and romantic
books, with large coloured pictures of knights and robbers, in many of which latter you might
read inscriptions to George Sedley Osborne, Esquire, from his attached friend William Dobbin--which
tokens of homage George received very graciously, as became his superior merit, as often and
as long as they were proffered him.

In after years Dobbin's father, the despised grocer, became Alderman, and Colonel of the City
Light Horse, in which corps George Osborne's father was but an indifferent Corporal. Colonel
Dobbin was knighted by his sovereign, which honour placed his son William in a social position
above that of the old school friends who had once been so scornful of him at Swishtail Academy;
even above the object of his deepest admiration, George Osborne.

But this did not in the least alter honest, simple-minded William Dobbin's feelings, and his
adoration for young Osborne remained unchanged. The two entered the army in the same regiment,
and served together, and Dobbin's attachment for George was as warm and loyal then as when
they were school-boys together.

Honest William Dobbin,--I would that there were more such staunch comrades as you to answer
to the name of friend!

GEORGE OSBORNE--RAWDON CRAWLEY

Rebecca sharp, the teacher of French at Miss Pinkerton's Academy for young ladies, and intimate
friend of Miss Amelia Sedley, the most popular scholar in Miss Pinkerton's select establishment,
left the institution at the same time to become a governess in the family of Sir Pitt Crawley.
Amelia was the only daughter of John Sedley, a wealthy London stock broker, and upon leaving
school was to take her place in fashionable society. Being the sweetest, most kind-hearted
girl in the world, Amelia invited Becky to visit her in London before taking up her new duties
as governess; which invitation Becky was only too glad to accept.

Now, Miss Sharp was in no way like the gentle Amelia, but as keen, brilliant, and selfish a
young person of eighteen as ever schemed to have events turn to her advantage. These characteristics
she showed so plainly while visiting at the Sedleys' that she left anything but a good impression
behind her. In fact, her visit was cut short because of some unpleasant circumstances connected
with her behaviour.

From that time she and Amelia did not meet for many months, during which Amelia had become
the wife of George Osborne, and Rebecca Sharp had married Rawdon Crawley, son of Sir Pitt Crawley,
Baronet.

The circumstances of Amelia's life during these months altered greatly, for shortly after she
left school honest John Sedley met with such severe losses that his family were obliged to
live in a much more modest way than formerly. Because of this misfortune, the course of Amelia's
love affair with young Lieutenant Osborne did not run smoothly; for his father was far too
ambitious to consent to his only son's marriage with the daughter of a ruined man, although
John Sedley was his son's godfather, and George had been devoted to Amelia since early boyhood.

Lieutenant Osborne therefore went away with his regiment, and poor little Amelia was left behind,
to pine and mourn until it seemed there was no hope of saving her life unless happiness should
speedily come to her. Then it was that Major Dobbin, George Osborne's staunch friend of schooldays,
and also an ardent admirer of Amelia's, saw how she was grieving and took upon himself to inform
George Osborne of the state of affairs. The young lieutenant came hurrying home just in time
to save a gentle little heart from wearing itself away with sorrowing, and married Amelia without
his father's consent. This so enraged the old gentleman that he refused to have his name mentioned
in the home where the boy had grown up; the veriest tyrant and idol of his sisters and father.

To Brighton George and Amelia went on their honeymoon, and there they met Becky Sharp and her
husband. Though the circumstances of the two young women's career had altered, Amelia and Becky
were unchanged in character, but that is of small concern to us, except as it affects their
children, to whose lives we now turn with keen interest, noting how they reflect the dispositions,
and are affected by the characters of their mothers.

As for little Rawdon Crawley, Becky's only child, he had few early happy recollections of his
mother. She had not, to say the truth, seen much of the young gentleman since his birth. After
the amiable fashion of French mothers, she had placed him out at nurse in a village in the
neighbourhood of Paris, where little Rawdon lived, not unhappily, with a numerous family of
foster brothers in wooden shoes. His father, who was devotedly attached to the little fellow,
would ride over many a time to see him here, and the elder Rawdon's paternal heart glowed to
see him rosy and dirty, shouting lustily, and happy in the making of mud-pies under the superintendence
of the gardener's wife, his nurse.

Rebecca, however, did not care much to go and see her son and heir, who as a result preferred
his nurse's caresses to his mamma's, and when finally he quitted that jolly nurse, he cried
loudly for hours. He was only consoled by his mother's promise that he should return to his
nurse the next day; which promise, it is needless to say, was not kept; instead the boy was
consigned to the care of a French maid, Genevieve, while his mother was seldom with him, and
the French woman was so neglectful of her young charge that at one time he very narrowly escaped
drowning on Calais sands, where Genevieve had left and lost him.

So with little care and less love his childhood passed until presently he went with his father
and mother, Colonel and Mrs. Crawley, to London, to their new home in Curzon Street, Mayfair.
There little Rawdon's time was mostly spent hidden upstairs in a garret somewhere, or crawling
below into the kitchen for companionship. His mother scarcely ever took notice of him. He passed
the days with his French nurse as long as she remained in the family, and when she went away,
a housemaid took compassion on the little fellow, who was howling in the loneliness of the
night, and got him out of his solitary nursery into her bed in the garret and comforted him.

Rebecca, her friend, my Lord Steyne, and one or two more were in the drawing-room taking tea
after the opera, when this shouting was heard overhead. "It's my cherub crying for his nurse,"
said his mother, who did not offer to move and go and see the child. "Don't agitate your feelings
by going to look after him," said Lord Steyne sardonically. "Bah!" exclaimed Becky, with a
sort of blush. "He'll cry himself to sleep"; and they fell to talking about the opera.

Mr. Rawdon Crawley had stolen off, however, to look after his son and heir; and came back to
the company when he found that honest Dolly was consoling the child. The Colonel's dressing-room
was in those upper regions. He used to see the boy there in private. They had interviews together
every morning when he shaved; Rawdon minor sitting on a box by his father's side, and watching
the operation with never-ceasing pleasure. He and the sire were great friends. The father would
bring him sweet-meats from the dessert, and hide them in a certain old epaulet box where the
child went to seek them, and laughed with joy on discovering the treasure; laughed, but not
too loud; for mamma was asleep and must not be disturbed. She did not go to rest until very
late, and seldom rose until afternoon.

His father bought the boy plenty of picture books, and crammed his nursery with toys. Its walls
were covered with pictures pasted up by the father's own hand. He passed hours with the boy,
who rode on his chest, pulled his great moustaches as if they were driving reins, and spent
days with him in indefatigable gambols. The room was a low one, and once, when the child was
not five years old, his father, who was tossing him wildly up in his arms, hit the poor little
chap's scull so violently against the ceiling that he almost dropped him, so terrified was
he at the disaster.

Rawdon minor had made up his face for a tremendous howl, but just as he was going to begin,
the father interposed.

"For God's sake, Rawdy, don't wake mamma," he cried. And the child, looking in a very hard
and piteous way at his father, bit his lips, clenched his hands, and didn't cry a bit. Rawdon
told that story at the clubs, at the mess, to everybody in town. "By Gad, sir," he explained
to the public in general, "what a good plucky one that boy of mine is. What a trump he is!
I half sent his head through the ceiling, and he wouldn't cry for fear of disturbing mother!"

Sometimes, once or twice in a week, that lady visited the upper regions in which the child
lived. She came like a vivified picture, blandly smiling in the most beautiful new clothes
and little gloves and boots. Wonderful scarfs, laces, and jewels glittered about her. She had
always a new bonnet on; and flowers bloomed perpetually in it, or else magnificent curling
ostrich feathers, soft and snowy as camellias. She nodded twice or thrice patronisingly to
the little boy, who looked up from his dinner or from the pictures of soldiers he was painting.
When she left the room, an odour of rose, or some other magical fragrance, lingered about the
nursery. She was an unearthly being in his eyes, superior to his father, to all the world,
to be worshipped and admired at a distance. To drive with that lady in a carriage was an awful
rite. He sat in the back seat, and did not dare to speak; he gazed with all his eyes at the
beautifully dressed princess opposite to him. Gentlemen on splendid prancing horses came up,
and smiled and talked with her. How her eyes beamed upon all of them! Her hand used to quiver
and wave gracefully as they passed. When he went out with her he had his new red dress on.
His old brown holland was good enough when he stayed at home. Sometimes, when she was away,
and Dolly the maid was making his bed, he came into his mother's room. It was as the abode
of a fairy to him--a mystic chamber of splendour and delight. There in the wardrobe hung those
wonderful robes--pink and blue and many-tinted. There was the jewel case, silver clasped; and
a hundred rings on the dressing table. There was a cheval glass, that miracle of art, in which
he could just see his own wondering head, and the reflection of Dolly, plumping and patting
the pillows of the bed. Poor lonely little benighted boy! Mother is the name for God in the
lips and hearts of little children; and here was one who was worshipping a stone!

His father used to take him out of mornings, when they would go to the stables together and
to the park. Little Lord Southdown, the best natured of men, who would make you a present of
a hat from his head, and whose main occupation in life was to buy nicknacks that he might give
them away afterwards, bought the little chap a pony, not much bigger than a large rat, and
on this little black Shetland pony young Rawdon's great father would mount the boy, and walk
by his side in the Park.

One Sunday morning as Rawdon Crawley, his little son, and the pony were taking their accustomed
walk, they passed an old acquaintance of the Colonel's, Corporal Clink, who was in conversation
with an old gentleman, who held a boy in his arms about the age of little Rawdon. The other
youngster had seized hold of the Waterloo medal which the Corporal wore, and was examining
it with delight.

"Good-morning, your honour," said Clink, in reply to the "How do, Clink?" of the Colonel. "This
'ere young gentleman is about the little Colonel's age, sir," continued the Corporal.

"His father was a Waterloo man, too," said the old gentleman who carried the boy. "Wasn't he,
Georgie?"

"Yes, sir," said Georgie. He and the little chap on the pony were looking at each other with
all their might, solemnly scanning each other as children do.

"His father was a captain in the--the regiment," said the old gentleman rather pompously. "Captain
George Osborne, sir--perhaps you knew him. He died the death of a hero, sir, fighting against
the Corsican tyrant"

"I knew him very well, sir," said Colonel Crawley, "and his wife, his dear little wife, sir--how
is she?"

"She is my daughter, sir," said the old gentleman proudly, putting down the boy, and taking
out his card, which he handed to the Colonel, while little Georgie went up and looked at the
Shetland pony.

"Should you like to have a ride?" said Rawdon minor from the saddle.

"Yes," said Georgie. The Colonel, who had been looking at him with some interest, took up the
child and put him on the pony behind Rawdon minor.

"Take hold of him, Georgie," he said; "take my little boy around the waist; his name is Rawdon."
And both the children began to laugh.

"You won't see a prettier pair, I think, this summer's day, sir," said the good-natured Corporal;
and the Colonel, the Corporal, and old Mr. Sedley, with his umbrella, walked by the side of
the children, who enjoyed each other and the pony enormously. In later years they often talked
of that first meeting.

But this is anticipating our story, for between the time of their first ride together, and
the time when circumstances brought them together again, the little chaps saw nothing of one
another for a number of years, during which the incidents of their lives differed as widely
as did the lives of their parents.

About the time when the little boys first met, Sir Pitt Crawley, Baronet, father of Pitt and
Rawdon Crawley, died, and Rebecca and her husband hastened to Queen's Crawley, the old family
home, where Rebecca had once been governess, to shed a last tear over the departed Baronet.
Rebecca was not bowed down with grief, we must confess, but keenly alive to the benefits which
might come to herself and Rawdon if she could please Sir Pitt Crawley, the new Baronet, and
Lady Jane his wife, a simple-minded woman mostly absorbed in the affairs of her nursery. This
interest aroused Becky's private scorn, but the first thing that clever little lady did was
to attack Lady Jane at her vulnerable point. After being conducted to the apartments prepared
for her, and having taken off her bonnet and cloak, Becky asked her sister-in-law in what more
she could be useful.

"What I should like best," she added, "would be to see your dear little nursery," at which
the two ladies looked very kindly at each other, and went to the nursery hand in hand.

Becky admired little Matilda, who was not quite four years old, as the most charming little
love in the world; and the boy, Pitt Blinkie Southdown, a little fellow of two years, pale,
heavy-eyed, and large-headed, she pronounced to be a perfect prodigy in size, intelligence
and beauty.

The funeral over, Rebecca and her husband remained for a visit at Queen's Crawley, which assumed
its wonted aspect. Rawdon senior received constant bulletins respecting little Rawdon, who
was left behind in London, and sent messages of his own. "I am very well," he wrote. "I hope
you are very well. I hope mamma is very well. The pony is very well. Grey takes me to ride
in the Park. I can canter. I met the little boy who rode before. He cried when he cantered.
I do not cry."

Rawdon read these letters to his brother, and Lady Jane, who was delighted with them, gave
Rebecca a banknote, begging her to buy a present with it for her little nephew.

Like all other good things, the visit came to an end, and one night the London lamps flashed
joyfully as the stage rolled into Piccadilly, and Briggs had made a beautiful fire on the hearth
in Curzon Street, and little Rawdon was up to welcome back his papa and mamma.

At this time he was a fine open-faced boy, with blue eyes and waving flaxen hair, sturdy in
limb, but generous and soft in heart, fondly attaching himself to all who were good to him:
to the pony, to Lord Southdown, who gave him the horse; to the groom who had charge of the
pony; to Molly the cook, who crammed him with ghost stories at night and with good things from
the dinner; to Briggs, his meek, devoted attendant, whom he plagued and laughed at; and to
his father especially. Here, as he grew to be about eight years old, his attachment may be
said to have ended. The beautiful mother vision had faded away after a while. During nearly
two years his mother had scarcely spoken to the child. She disliked him. He had the measles
and the whooping cough. He bored her. One day when he was standing at the landing-place, having
crept down from the upper regions, attracted by the sound of his mother's voice, who was singing
to Lord Steyne, the drawing-room door opening suddenly discovered the little spy, who but a
moment before had been rapt in delight and listening to the music.

His mother came out and struck him violently a couple of boxes on the ear. He heard a laugh
from the Marquis in the inner room, and fled down below to his friends of the kitchen, bursting
in an agony of grief.

"It is not because it hurts me," little Rawdon gasped out, "only--only--" sobs and tears wound
up the sentence in a storm. It was the little boy's heart that was bleeding. "Why mayn't I
hear her singing? Why don't she ever sing to me, as she does to that bald-headed man with the
large teeth?" He gasped out at various intervals these exclamations of grief and rage. The
cook looked at the housemaid; the housemaid looked knowingly at the footman, who all sat in
judgment on Rebecca from that moment.

After this incident the mother's dislike increased to hatred; the consciousness that the child
was in the house was a reproach and a pain to her. His very sight annoyed her. Fear, doubt,
and resistance sprang up too, in the boy's own bosom.

He and his mother were separated from that day of the boxes on the ear.

Lord Steyne also disliked the boy. When they met he made sarcastic bows or remarks to the child,
or glared at him with savage-looking eyes. Rawdon used to stare him in the face and double
his little fists in return. Had it not been for his father, the child would have been desolate
indeed, in his own home.

But an unexpected good time came to him a day or two before Christmas, when he was taken by
his father and mother to pass the holidays at Queen's Crawley. Becky would have liked to leave
him at home, but for Lady Jane's urgent invitation to the youngster; and the symptoms of revolt
and discontent manifested by Rawdon at her neglect of her son. "He is the finest boy in England,"
the father said reproachfully, "and you don't seem to care for him as much as you do for your
spaniel. He shan't bother you much; at home he will be away from you in the nursery, and he
shall go outside on the coach with me."

So little Rawdon was wrapped up in shawls and comforters for the winter's journey, and hoisted
respectfully onto the roof of the coach in the dark morning; with no small delight watched
the dawn arise, and made his first journey to the place which his father still called home.
It was a journey of infinite pleasure to the boy, to whom the incidents of the road afforded
endless interest; his father answering all questions connected with it, and telling him who
lived in the great white house to the right, and whom the park belonged to.

Presently the boy fell asleep, and it was dark when he was wakened up to enter his uncle's
carriage at Mudbury, and he sat and looked out of it wondering as the great iron gates flew
open, and at the white trunks of the limes as they swept by, until they stopped at length before
the lighted windows of the Hall, which were blazing and comfortable with Christmas welcome.
The hall-door was flung open; a big fire was burning in the great old fireplace, a carpet was
down over the chequered black flags, and the next instant Becky was kissing Lady Jane.

She and Sir Pitt performed the same salute with great gravity, while Sir Pitt's two children
came up to their cousin. Matilda held out her hand and kissed him. Pitt Blinkie Southdown,
the son and heir, stood aloof, and examined him as a little dog does a big one.

Then the kind hostess conducted her guests to snug apartments blazing with cheerful fires,
and after some conversation with the fine young ladies of the house, the great dinner bell
having rung, the family assembled at dinner, at which meal Rawdon junior was placed by his
aunt, and exhibited not only a fine appetite, but a gentlemanlike behaviour.

"I like to dine here," he said to his aunt when he had completed his meal, at the conclusion
of which, and after a decent grace by Sir Pitt, the younger son and heir was introduced and
was perched on a high chair by the Baronet's side, while the daughter took possession of the
place prepared for her, near her mother. "I like to dine here," said Rawdon minor, looking
up at his relation's kind face.

"Why?" said the good Lady Jane.

"I dine in the kitchen when I am at home," replied Rawdon minor, "or else with Briggs." This
honest confession was fortunately not heard by Becky, who was deep in conversation with the
Baronet, or it might have been worse for little Rawdon.

As a guest, and it being the first night of his arrival, he was allowed to sit up until the
hour when, tea being over and a great gilt book being laid on the table before Sir Pitt, all
the domestics of the family streamed in and Sir Pitt read prayers. It was the first time the
poor little boy had ever witnessed or heard of such a ceremonial.

Queen's Crawley had been much improved since the young Baronet's brief reign, and was pronounced
by Becky to be perfect, charming, delightful, when she surveyed it in his company. As for little
Rawdon, who examined it with the children for his guides, it seemed to him a perfect palace
of enchantment and wonder. There were long galleries, and ancient state bed-rooms; there were
pictures and old china and armour which enchanted little Rawdon, who had never seen their like
before, and who, poor child, had never before been in such an atmosphere of kindness and good
cheer.

On Christmas day a great family gathering took place, and one and all agreed that little Rawdon
was a fine boy. They respected a possible Baronet in the boy between whom and the title there
was only the little sickly, pale Pitt Blinkie.

The children were very good friends. Pitt Blinkie was too little a dog for such a big dog as
Rawdon to play with, and Matilda, being only a girl, of course not fit companion for a young
gentleman who was near eight years old, and going into jackets very soon. He took the command
of this small party at once, the little girl and the little boy following him about with great
reverence at such times as he condescended to sport with them. His happiness and pleasure in
the country were extreme. The kitchen-garden pleased him hugely, the flowers moderately; but
the pigeons and the poultry, and the stables, when he was allowed to visit them, were delightful
objects to him. He resisted being kissed by the Misses Crawley; but he allowed Lady Jane sometimes
to embrace him, and it was by her side that he liked to sit rather than by his mother. Rebecca,
seeing that tenderness was the fashion, called Rawdon to her one evening, and stooped down
and kissed him in the presence of all the ladies.

He looked her full in the face after the operation, trembling and turning very red, as his
wont was when moved. "You never kiss me at home, Mamma," he said; at which there was a general
silence and consternation, and by no means a pleasant look in Becky's eyes; but she was obliged
to allow the incident to pass in silence.

But the greatest day of all was that on which Sir Huddlestone Fuddlestone's hounds met upon
the lawn at Queen's Crawley.

That was a famous sight for little Rawdon. At half-past ten Tom Moody, Sir Huddlestone Fuddlestone's
huntsman, was seen trotting up the avenue, followed by the noble pack of hounds in a compact
body, the rear being brought up by the two whips clad in stained scarlet frocks, light, hard-featured
lads on well-bred lean horses, possessing marvellous dexterity in casting the points of their
long, heavy whips at the thinnest part of any dog's skin who dared to straggle from the main
body, or to take the slightest notice, or even so much as wink at the hares and rabbits starting
under their noses.

Next came boy Jack, Tom Moody's son, who weighed five stone, measured eight and forty inches,
and would never be any bigger. He was perched on a large raw-boned hunter, half covered by
a capacious saddle. This animal was Sir Huddlestone Fuddlestone's favourite horse, the Nob.
Other horses ridden by other small boys arrived from time to time, awaiting their masters,
who came cantering on anon.

Tom Moody rode up presently, and he and his pack drew off into a sheltered corner of the lawn,
where the dogs rolled on the grass, and played or growled angrily at one another, ever and
anon breaking out into furious fights, speedily to be quelled by Tom's voice, unmatched at
rating, or the snaky thongs of the whips.

Many young gentlemen cantered up on thoroughbred hacks, spatter-dashed to the knee, and entered
the house to pay their respects to the ladies, or, more modest and sportsmanlike, divested
themselves of their mud-boots, exchanged their hacks for their hunters, and warmed their blood
by a preliminary gallop round the lawn. Then they collected round the pack in the corner, and
talked with Tom Moody of past sport, and the merits of Sniveller and Diamond, and of the state
of the country and of the wretched breed of foxes.

Sir Huddlestone presently appears mounted on a clever cob, and rides up to the Hall, where
he enters and does the civil thing by the ladies, after which, being a man of few words, he
proceeds to business. The hounds are drawn up to the hall-door, and little Rawdon descends
among them, excited yet half alarmed by the caresses which they bestow upon him, at the thumps
he receives from their waving tails, and at their canine bickerings, scarcely restrained by
Tom Moody's tongue and lash.

Meanwhile, Sir Huddlestone has hoisted himself unwieldily on the Nob. "Let's try Sowster's
Spinney, Tom," says the Baronet; "Farmer Mangle tells me there are two foxes in it." Tom blows
his horn and trots off, followed by the pack, by the whips, by the young gents from Winchester,
by the farmers of the neighbourhood, by the labourers of the parish on foot, with whom the
day is a great holiday; Sir Huddlestone bringing up the rear with Colonel Crawley; and the
whole train of hounds and horsemen disappears down the avenue, leaving little Rawdon alone
on the doorsteps, wondering and happy.

During the progress of this memorable holiday little Rawdon, if he had got no special liking
for his uncle, always awful and cold, and locked up in his study, plunged in justice business
and surrounded by bailiffs and farmers, has gained the good graces of his married and maiden
aunts, of the two little folks of the Hall, and of Jim of the Rectory, and he had become extremely
fond of Lady Jane, who told such beautiful stories with the children clustered about her knees.
Naturally, after having his first glimpse of happy home life and his first taste of genuine
motherly affection, it was a sad day to little Rawdon when he was obliged to return to Curzon
Street. But there was an unexpected pleasure awaiting him on his return. Lord Steyne, though
he wasted no affection upon the boy, yet for reasons of his own concerning only himself and
Mrs. Becky, extended his good will to little Rawdon. Wishing to have the boy out of his way,
he pointed out to Rawdon's parents the necessity of sending him to a public school; that he
was of an age now when emulation, the first principles of the Latin language, pugilistic exercises,
and the society of his fellow boys would be of the greatest benefit to him. His father objected
that he was not rich enough to send the child to a good school; his mother, that Briggs was
a capital mistress for him, and had brought him on, as indeed was the fact, famously in English,
Latin, and in general learning; but all these objections were overruled by the Marquis of Steyne.
His lordship was one of the Governors of that famous old collegiate institution called the
White Friars, where he desired that little Rawdon should be sent, and sent he was; for Rawdon
Crawley, though the only book which he studied was the racing calendar, and though his chief
recollections of learning were connected with the floggings which he received at Eton in his
early youth, had that reverence for classical learning which all English gentlemen feel, and
was glad to think that his son was to have the chance of becoming a scholar. And although his
boy was his chief solace and companion, he agreed at once to part with him for the sake of
the welfare of the little lad.

It was honest Briggs who made up the little kit for the boy which he was to take to school.
Molly, the housemaid, blubbered in the passage when he went away. Mrs. Becky could not let
her husband have the carriage to take the boy to school. Take the horses into the city! Such
a thing was never heard of. Let a cab be brought. She did not offer to kiss him when he went,
nor did the child propose to embrace her, but gave a kiss to old Briggs and consoled her by
pointing out that he was to come home on Saturdays, when she would have the benefit of seeing
him. As the cab rolled towards the city Becky's carriage rattled off to the park. She gave
no thought to either of them when the father and son entered at the old gates of the school,
where Rawdon left the child, then walked home very dismally, and dined alone with Briggs, to
whom he was grateful for her love and watchfulness over the boy. They talked about little Rawdon
a long time, and Mr. Crawley went off to drink tea with Lady Jane, who was very fond of Rawdon,
as was her little girl, who cried bitterly when the time for her cousin's departure came. Rawdon
senior now told Lady Jane how little Rawdon went off like a trump, and how he was to wear a
gown and little knee breeches, and Jack Blackball's son of the old regiment had taken him in
charge and promised to be kind to him.

The Colonel went to see his son a short time afterwards, and found the lad sufficiently well
and happy, grinning and laughing in his little black gown and little breeches. As a protege
of the great Lord Steyne, the nephew of a county member, and son of a Colonel and C.B. whose
names appeared in some of the most fashionable parties in the Morning Post, perhaps the school
authorities were disposed not to look unkindly on the child.

He had plenty of pocket-money, which he spent in treating his comrades royally to raspberry
tarts, and he was often allowed to come home on Saturdays to his father, who always made a
jubilee of that day. When free, Rawdon would take him to the play, or send him thither with
the footman; and on Sundays he went to church with Briggs and Lady Jane and his cousins. Rawdon
marvelled over his stories about school, and fights, and fagging. Before long he knew the names
of all the masters and the principal boys as well as little Rawdon himself. He invited little
Rawdon's crony from school and made both the children sick with pastry, and oysters, and porter
after the play. He tried to look knowing over the Latin grammar when little Rawdon showed him
what part of that work he was "in." "Stick to it, my boy," he said to him with much gravity,
"there's nothing like a good classical education! Nothing!"

While little Rawdon was still one of the fifty gown-boys of White Friar school, the Colonel,
his poor father, got into great trouble through no fault of his own, but as a result of which
Mrs. Becky was obliged to make her exit from Curzon Street forever, and the Colonel in bitter
dejection and humiliation accepted an appointment as Governor of Coventry Island. For some
time he resisted the idea of taking this place, because it had been procured for him through
the influence of Lord Steyne, whose patronage was odious to him, as he had been the means of
ruining the Colonel's homelife. The Colonel's instinct also was for at once removing the boy
from the school where Lord Steyne's interest had placed him. He was induced, however, not to
do this, and little Rawden was allowed to round out his days in the school, where he was very
happy. After his mother's departure from Curzon Street she disappeared entirely from her son's
life, and never made any movement to see the child.

He went home to his aunt, Lady Jane, for Sundays and holidays; and soon knew every bird's-nest
about Queen's Crawley, and rode out with Sir Huddlestone's hounds, which he had admired so
on his first well-remembered visit to the home of his ancestor. In fact, Rawdon was consigned
to the entire guardianship of his aunt and uncle, to whom he was fortunately deeply devoted;
and although he received several letters at various times from his mother, they made little
impression upon him, and indeed it was easy to see where his affections were placed. When Sir
Pitt's only boy died of whooping-cough and measles--then Mrs. Becky wrote the most affectionate
letter to her darling son, who was made heir of Queen's Crawley by this accident, and drawn
more closely than ever by it to Lady Jane, whose tender heart had already adopted him. Rawdon
Crawley, then grown a tall, fine lad, blushed when he got the letter.

"Oh, Aunt Jane, you are my mother!" he said; "and not--and not that one!" But he wrote a kind
and respectful letter in response to Mrs. Becky, and the incident was closed. As for the Colonel,
he wrote to the boy regularly every mail from his post on Coventry Island, and little Rawdon
used to like to get the papers and read about his Excellency, his father, of whom he had been
truly fond. But the image gradually faded as the images of childhood do fade, and each year
he grew more tenderly attached to Lady Jane and her husband, who had become father and mother
to him in his hour of need.

As for George Osborne, the little boy whom Rawdon Crawley had given a ride on his pony long
years before, the fates had been much kinder to him than to Rawdon. He had had no lonely childhood,
for although he had no recollection of his handsome young father, from baby days he was surrounded
by the utmost adoration by a doting mother. Poor Amelia, deprived of the husband whom she adored,
lavished all the pent-up love of her gentle bosom upon the little boy with the eyes of George
who was gone--a little boy as beautiful as a cherub, and there was never a moment when the
child missed any office which love or affection could give him. His grandfather Sedley also
adored the child, and it was the old man's delight to take out his little grandson to the neighbouring
parks of Kensington Gardens, to see the soldiers or to feed the ducks. Georgie loved the red
coats, and his grandpapa told him how his father had been a famous soldier, and introduced
him to many sergeants and others with Waterloo medals on their breasts, to whom the old grandfather
pompously presented the child; as on the occasion of their meeting with Colonel Rawdon Crawley
and his little son.

Old Sedley was disposed to spoil little Georgie, sadly gorging the boy with apples and peppermint
to the detriment of his health, until Amelia declared that Georgie should never go out with
his grandpapa again unless the latter solemnly promised on his honour not to give the child
any cakes, lollipops, or stall produce whatever.

Amelia's days were full of active employment, for besides caring for Georgie, she devoted much
time to her old father and mother, with whom she and the child lived, and who were much broken
by their financial reverses. She also personally superintended her little son's education for
several years. She taught him to read and to write, and a little to draw. She read books, in
order that she might tell him stories. As his eyes opened, and his mind expanded, she taught
him to the best of her humble power to acknowledge the Maker of All; and every night and every
morning he and she--the mother and the little boy--prayed to our Father together, the mother
pleading with all her gentle heart, the child lisping after her as she spoke. And each time
they prayed to God to bless dear papa, as if he were alive and in the room with them.

Besides her pension of fifty pounds a year, as an army officer's widow, there had been five
hundred pounds left with the agent of her estate for her, for which Amelia did not know that
she was indebted to Major Dobbin, until years later. This same Major, by the way, was stationed
at Madras, where twice or thrice in the year she wrote to him about herself and the boy, and
he in turn sent over endless remembrances to his godson and to her. He sent a box of scarfs,
and a grand ivory set of chess-men from China. The pawns were little green and white men, with
real swords and shields; the knights were on horseback, the castles were on the backs of elephants.
These chessmen were the delight of Georgie's life, who printed his first letter of acknowledgment
of this gift of his godpapa. Major Dobbin also sent over preserves and pickles, which latter
the young gentleman tried surreptitiously in the sideboard, and half killed himself with eating.
He thought it was a judgment upon him for stealing, they were so hot. Amelia wrote a comical
little account of this mishap to the Major; it pleased him to think that her spirits were rallying,
and that she could be merry sometimes now. He sent over a pair of shawls, a white one for her,
and a black one with palm-leaves for her mother, and a pair of red scarfs, as winter wrappers,
for old Mr. Sedley and George. The shawls were worth fifty guineas apiece, at the very least,
as Mrs. Sedley knew. She wore hers in state at church at Brompton, and was congratulated by
her female friends upon the splendid acquisition. Amelia's, too, became prettily her modest
black gown.

Amidst humble scenes and associates Georgie's early youth was passed, and the boy grew up delicate,
sensitive, imperious, woman-bred--domineering over the gentle mother whom he loved with passionate
affection. He ruled all the rest of the little world round about him. As he grew, the elders
were amazed at his haughty manner and his constant likeness to his father. He asked questions
about everything, as inquiring youth will do. The profundity of his remarks and questions astonished
his old grandfather, who perfectly bored the club at the tavern with stories about the little
lad's learning and genius. He suffered his grandmother with a good-humoured indifference. The
small circle round about him believed that the equal of the boy did not exist upon the earth.
Georgie inherited his father's pride, and perhaps thought they were not wrong.

When he grew to be about six years old, Dobbin began to write to him very much. The Major wanted
to hear that Georgie was going to a school, and hoped he would acquit himself with credit there;
or would he have a good tutor at home? It was time that he should begin to learn; and his godfather
and guardian hinted that he hoped to be allowed to defray the charges of the boy's education,
which would fall heavily upon his mother's straitened income. The Major, in a word, was always
thinking about Amelia and her little boy, and by orders to his agents kept the latter provided
with picture-books, paint-boxes, desks, and all conceivable implements of amusement and instruction.
Three days before Georgie's sixth birthday a gentleman in a gig, accompanied by a servant,
drove up to Mrs. Sedley's house and asked to be conducted to Master George Osborne. It was
Woolsey, military tailor, who came at the Major's order, to measure George for a suit of clothes.
He had had the honour of making for the Captain, the young gentleman's father.

Sometimes, too, the Major's sisters, the Misses Dobbin, would call in the family carriage to
take Amelia and the little boy a drive. The patronage of these ladies was very uncomfortable
to Amelia, but she bore it meekly enough, for her nature was to yield; and besides, the carriage
and its splendours gave little Georgie immense pleasure. The ladies begged occasionally that
the child might pass a day with them, and he was always glad to go to that fine villa on Denmark
Hill, where there were such fine grapes in the hot-house and peaches on the walls.

Miss Osborne, Georgie's aunt, who, since old Osborne's quarrel with his son, had not been allowed
to have any intercourse with Amelia or little Georgie, was kept acquainted with the state of
Amelia's affairs by the Misses Dobbin, who told how she was living with her father and mother;
how poor they were; but how the boy was really the noblest little boy ever seen; which praise
raised a great desire to see the child in the heart of his maiden aunt, and one night when
he came back from Denmark Hill in the pony carriage in which he rejoiced, he had round his
neck a fine gold chain and watch. He said an old lady, not pretty, had been there and had given
it to him, who cried and kissed him a great deal. But he didn't like her. He liked grapes very
much and he only liked his mamma. Amelia shrunk and started; she felt a presentiment of terror,
for she knew that Georgie's relations had seen him.

Miss Osborne,--for it was indeed she who had seen Georgie,--went home that night to give her
father his dinner. He was in rather a good-humour, and chanced to remark her excitement "What's
the matter, Miss Osborne?" he deigned to ask.

The woman burst into tears. "Oh, sir," she said, "I've seen little Georgie. He is as beautiful
as an angel--and so like him!"

The old man opposite to her did not say a word, but flushed up, and began to tremble in every
limb, and that night he bade his daughter good-night in rather a kindly voice. And he must
have made some inquiries of the Misses Dobbin regarding her visit to them when she had seen
Georgie, for a fortnight afterwards he asked her where was her little French watch and chain
she used to wear.

"I bought it with my money, sir," she said in a great fright, not daring to tell what she had
done with it.

"Go and order another like it, or a better, if you can get it," said the old gentleman, and
lapsed again into silence.

After that time the Misses Dobbin frequently invited Georgie to visit them, and hinted to Amelia
that his aunt had shown her inclination; perhaps his grandfather himself might be disposed
to be reconciled to him in time. Surely, Amelia could not refuse such advantageous chances
for the boy. Nor could she; but she acceded to their overtures with a very heavy and suspicious
heart, was always uneasy during the child's absence from her, and welcomed him back as if he
was rescued out of some danger. He brought back money and toys, at which the widow looked with
alarm and jealousy; she asked him always if he had seen any gentleman. "Only old Sir William,
who drove him about in the four-wheeled chaise, and Mr. Dobbin, who arrived on the beautiful
bay horse in the afternoon, in the green coat and pink neckcloth, with the gold-headed whip,
who promised to show him the Tower of London and take him out with the Surrey hounds." At last
he said: "There was an old gentleman, with thick eyebrows and a brown hat and large chain and
seals. He came one day as the coachman was leading Georgie around the lawn on the grey pony.
He looked at me very much. He shook very much. I said, 'My name is Norval,' after dinner. My
aunt began to cry. She is always crying." Such was George's report on that night.

Then Amelia knew that the boy had seen his grandfather; and looked out feverishly for a proposal
which she was sure would follow, and which came, in fact, a few days afterwards. Mr. Osborne
formally offered to take the boy, and make him heir to the fortune which he had intended that
his father should inherit. He would make Mrs. George Osborne an allowance, such as to assure
her a decent competency. But it must be understood that the child would live entirely with
his grandfather and be only occasionally permitted to see Mrs. George Osborne at her own home.
This message was brought to her in a letter one day. She had only been seen angry a few times
in her life, but now Mr. Osborne's lawyer so beheld her. She rose up trembling and flushing
very much after reading the letter, and she tore the paper into a hundred fragments, which
she trod on. "I take money to part from my child! Who dares insult me proposing such a thing?
Tell Mr. Osborne it is a cowardly letter, sir--a cowardly letter--I will not answer it! I wish
you good-morning," and she bowed the lawyer out of the room like a tragedy queen.

Her parents did not remark her agitation on that day. They were absorbed in their own affairs,
and the old gentleman, her father, was deep in speculation, in which he was sinking the remittances
regularly sent from India by his son, Joseph, for the support of his aged parents; and also
that portion of Amelia's slender income which she gave each month to her father. Of this dangerous
pastime of her father's Amelia was kept in ignorance, until the day came when he was obliged
to confess that he was penniless. At once Amelia handed over to him what little money she had
retained for her own and Georgie's expenses. She did this without a word of regret, but returned
to her room to cry her eyes out, for she had made plans which would now be impossible, to have
a new suit made for Georgie. This she was obliged to countermand, and, hardest of all, she
had to break the matter to Georgie, who made a loud outcry. Everybody had new clothes at Christmas.
The other boys would laugh at him. He would have new clothes, she had promised them to him.
The poor widow had only kisses to give him. She cast about among her little ornaments to see
if she could sell anything to procure the desired novelties. She remembered her India shawl
that Dobbin sent her, which might be of value to a merchant with whom ladies had all sorts
of dealings and bargains in these articles. She smiled brightly as she kissed away Georgie
to school in the morning, and the boy felt that there was good news in her look.

As soon as he had gone she hurried away to the merchant with her shawl hidden under her cloak.
As she walked she calculated how, with the proceeds of her shawl, besides the clothes, she
would buy the books that he wanted, and pay his half year's schooling at the little school
to which he went; and how she would buy a new coat for her father. She was not mistaken as
to the value of the shawl. It was a very fine one, for which the merchant gave her twenty guineas.
She ran on, amazed and flurried with her riches, to a shop where she purchased the books Georgie
longed for, and went home exulting. And she pleased herself by writing in the fly leaf in her
neatest little hand, "George Osborne, A Christmas gift from his affectionate mother."

She was going to place the books on Georgie's table, when in the passage she and her mother
met. The gilt bindings of the little volumes caught the old lady's eye.

"What are those?" she said.

"Some books for Georgie," Amelia replied. "I--I promised them to him at Christmas."

"Books!" cried the old lady indignantly; books! when the whole house wants bread! Oh, Amelia!
You break my heart with your books, and that boy of yours, whom you are ruining, though part
with him you will not! Oh, Amelia, may God send you a more dutiful child than I have had! There's
Joseph deserts his father in his old age; and there's George, who might be rich, going to school
like a lord, with a gold watch and chain round his neck, while my dear, dear, old man is without
a sh-shilling." Hysterical sobs ended Mrs. Sedley's grief, which quite melted Amelia's tender
heart.

"Oh, mother, mother!" she cried. "You told me nothing. I--I promised him the books. I--I only
sold my shawl this morning. Take the money--take everything--" taking out her precious golden
sovereigns, which she thrust into her mother's hands, and then went into her room, and sank
down in despair and utter misery. She saw it all. Her selfishness was sacrificing the boy.
But for her, he might have wealth, station, education, and his father's place, which the elder
George had forfeited for her sake. She had but to speak the words, and her father was restored
to comfort, and the boy raised to fortune. Oh, what a conviction it was to that tender and
stricken heart!

The combat between inclination and duty lasted for many weeks in poor Amelia's heart. Meanwhile
by every means in her power she attempted to earn money, but was always unsuccessful. Then,
when matters had become tragic in the little family circle, she could bear the burden of pain
no longer. Her decision was made. For the sake of others the child must go from her. She must
give him up,--she must--she must.

She put on her bonnet, scarcely knowing what she did, and went out to walk in the lanes, where
she was in the habit of going to meet Georgie on his return from school. It was May, a half-holiday.
The leaves were all coming out, the weather was brilliant. The boy came running to her flushed
with health, singing, his bundle of school-books hanging by a thong. There he was. Both her
arms were round him. No, it was impossible. They could not be going to part. "What is the matter,
mother?" said he. "You look very sad."

"Nothing, my child," she said, and stooped down and kissed him. That night Amelia made the
boy read the story of Samuel to her, and how Hannah, his mother, having weaned him, brought
him to Eli the High Priest to minister before the Lord. And he read the song of gratitude which
Hannah sang; and which says: "Who is it who maketh poor and maketh rich, and bringeth low and
exalteth, how the poor shall be raised up out of the dust, and how, in his own might, no man
shall be strong." Then he read how Samuel's mother made him a little coat, and brought it to
him from year to year when she came up to offer the yearly sacrifice. And then, in her sweet,
simple way, George's mother made commentaries to the boy upon this affecting story. How Hannah,
though she loved her son so much, yet gave him up because of her vow. And how she must always
have thought of him as she sat at home, far away, making the little coat, and Samuel, she was
sure, never forgot his mother; and how happy she must have been as the time came when she should
see her boy, and how good and wise he had grown. This little sermon she spoke with a gentle,
solemn voice, and dry eyes, until she came to the account of their meeting. Then the discourse
broke off suddenly, the tender heart overflowed, and taking the boy to her breast, she rocked
him in her arms, and wept silently over him.

Her mind being made up, the widow began at once to take such measures as seemed right to her
for achieving her purpose. One day, Miss Osborne, in Russell Square, got a letter from Amelia,
which made her blush very much, and look towards her father, sitting glooming in his place
at the other end of the table.

In simple terms, Amelia told her the reasons which had induced her to change her mind respecting
her boy. Her father had met with fresh misfortunes which had entirely ruined him. Her own pittance
was so small that it would barely enable her to support her parents and would not suffice to
give George the advantages which were his due. Great as her sufferings would be at parting
with him, she would, by God's help, endure them for the boy's sake. She knew that those to
whom he was going would do all in their power to make him happy. She described his disposition,
such as she fancied it; quick and impatient of control or harshness, easily to be moved by
love and kindness. In a postscript, she stipulated that she should have a written agreement
that she should see the child as often as she wished; she could not part with him under any
other terms.

"What? Mrs. Pride has come down, has she?" old Osborne said, when with a tremulous voice Miss
Osborne read him the letter. "Reg'lar starved out, hey? Ha, ha! I knew she would!" He tried
to keep his dignity and to read his paper as usual, but he could not follow it. At last he
flung it down: and scowling at his daughter, as his wont was, went out of the room and presently
returned with a key. He flung it to Miss Osborne.

"Get the room over mine--his room that was--ready," he said.

"Yes, sir," his daughter replied in a tremble.

It was George's room. It had not been opened for more than ten years. Some of his clothes,
papers, handkerchiefs, whips and caps, fishing-rods and sporting gear, were still there. An
army list of 1814, with his name written on the cover; a little dictionary he was wont to use
in writing; and the Bible his mother had given him, were on the mantelpiece; with a pair of
spurs, and a dried inkstand covered with the dust of ten years. Ah! since that ink was wet,
what days and people had passed away! The writing-book still on the table was blotted with
his hand.

Miss Osborne was much affected when she first entered this room. She sank quite pale on the
little bed. "This is blessed news, ma'am--indeed, ma'am," the housekeeper said; "the good old
times is returning! The dear little feller, to be sure, ma'am; how happy he will be! But some
folks in Mayfair, ma'am, will owe him a grudge!" and she clicked back the bolt which held the
window-sash, and let the air into the chamber.

"You had better send that woman some money," Mr. Osborne said, before he went out. "She shan't
want for nothing. Send her a hundred pound."

"And I'll go and see her to-morrow?" Miss Osborne asked.

"That's your lookout. She don't come in here, mind. But she mustn't want now. So look out,
and get things right." With which brief speeches Mr. Osborne took leave of his daughter, and
went on his accustomed way.

That night, when Amelia kissed her father, she put a bill for a hundred pounds into his hands,
adding, "And--and, mamma, don't be harsh with Georgie. He--he is not going to stop with us
long." She could say nothing more, and walked away silently to her room.

Miss Osborne came the next day, according to the promise contained in her note, and saw Amelia.
The meeting between them was friendly. A look and a few words from Miss Osborne showed the
poor widow that there need be no fear lest she should take the first place in her son's affection.
She was cold, sensible, not unkind. Miss Osborne, on the other hand, could not but be touched
with the poor mother's situation, and their arrangements were made together with kindness on
both sides.

Georgie was kept from school the next day, and saw his aunt. Days were passed in talks, visits,
preparations. The widow broke the matter to him with great caution; and was saddened to find
him rather elated than otherwise. He bragged about the news that day to the boys at school;
told them how he was going to live with his grandpapa, his father's father, not the one who
comes here sometimes; and that he would be very rich, and have a carriage, and a pony, and
go to a much finer school, and when he was rich he would buy Leader's pencil-case, and pay
the tart woman.

At last the day came, the carriage drove up, the little humble packets containing tokens of
love and remembrance were ready and disposed in the hall long since. George was in his new
suit, for which the tailor had come previously to measure him. He had sprung up with the sun
and put on the new clothes. Days before Amelia had been making preparations for the end; purchasing
little stores for the boy's use; marking his books and linen; talking with him and preparing
him for the change, fondly fancying that he needed preparation.

So that he had change, what cared he? He was longing for it. By a thousand eager declarations
as to what he would do when he went to live with his grandfather, he had shown the poor widow
how little the idea of parting had cast him down. He would come and see his mamma often on
the pony, he said; he would come and fetch her in the carriage; they would drive in the Park,
and she would have everything she wanted.

George stood by his mother, watching her final arrangements without the least concern, then
said a gay farewell, went away smiling, and the widow was quite alone.

The boy came to see her often, after that, to be sure. He rode on a pony with the coachman
behind him, to the delight of his old grandfather, Sedley, who walked proudly down the lane
by his side. Amelia saw him, but he was not her boy any more. Why, he rode to see the boys
at the little school, too, and to show off before them his new wealth and splendour. In two
days he had adopted a slightly imperious air and patronising manner, and once fairly established
in his grandfather Osborne's mansion in Russell Square, won the grandsire's heart by his good
looks, gallant bearing, and gentlemanlike appearance. Mr. Osborne was as proud of him as ever
he had been of the elder George, and the child had many more luxuries and indulgences than
had been awarded to his father. Osborne's wealth and importance in the city had very much increased
of late years. He had been glad enough to put the elder George in a good private school, and
a commission in the army for his son had been a source of no small pride to him; but for little
George and his future prospects the old man looked much higher. He would make a gentleman of
the little chap, a collegian, a parliament man--a baronet, perhaps. He would have none but
a tip-top college man to educate him. He would mourn in a solemn manner that his own education
had been neglected, and repeatedly point out the necessity of classical acquirements.

When they met at dinner the grandfather used to ask the lad what he had been reading during
the day, and was greatly interested at the report the boy gave of his studies, pretending to
understand little George when he spoke regarding them. He made a hundred blunders, and showed
his ignorance many a time, which George was quick to see and which did not increase the respect
which the child had for his senior.

In fact, as young George had lorded it over the tender, yielding nature of his mother, so the
coarse pomposity of the dull old man with whom he next came in contact, made him lord over
the latter, too. If he had been a prince royal, he could not have been better brought up to
think well of himself, and while his mother was yearning after him at home, he was having a
number of pleasures and consolations administered to him which made the separation from Amelia
a very easy matter to him. In fact, Master George Osborne had every comfort and luxury that
a wealthy and lavish old grandfather thought fit to provide. He had the handsomest pony which
could be bought, and on this was taught to ride, first at a riding-school, then in state to
Regent's Park, and then to Hyde Park with Martin the coachman behind him.

Though he was scarcely eleven years of age, Master George wore straps, and the most beautiful
little boots, like a man. He had gilt spurs and a gold-headed whip and a fine pin in his neckerchief,
and the neatest little kid gloves which could be bought. His mother had given him a couple
of neckcloths, and carefully made some little shirts for him; but when her Samuel came to see
the widow, they were replaced by much finer linen. He had little jewelled buttons in the lawn
shirt fronts. Her humble presents had been put aside--I believe Miss Osborne had given them
to the coachman's boy.

Amelia tried to think she was pleased at the change. Indeed, she was happy and charmed to see
the boy looking so beautiful. She had a little black profile of him done for a shilling, which
was hung over her bed. One day the boy came galloping down on his accustomed visit to her,
and with great eagerness pulled a red morocco case out of his coat pocket.

"I bought it with my own money, mamma," he said. "I thought you'd like it."

Amelia opened the case, and giving a little cry of delighted affection, seized him and embraced
him a hundred times. It was a miniature of himself, very prettily done by an artist who had
just executed his portrait for his grandfather. Georgie, who had plenty of money, bethought
him to ask the painter how much a copy of the portrait would cost, saying that he would pay
for it out of his own money, and that he wanted to give it to his mother. The pleased painter
executed it for a small price, and old Osborne himself, when he heard of the incident, growled
out his satisfaction, and gave the boy twice as many sovereigns as he paid for the miniature.

At his new home Master George ruled like a lord, and charmed his old grandfather by his ways.
"Look at him," the old man would say, nudging his neighbour with a delighted purple face, "did
you ever see such a chap? Lord, Lord! he'll be ordering a dressing-case next, and razors to
shave with; I'm blessed if he won't."

The antics of the lad did not, however, delight Mr. Osborne's friends so much as they pleased
the old gentleman. It gave Mr. Justice Coffin no pleasure to hear Georgie cut into the conversation
and spoil his stories. Mr. Sergeant Toffy's lady felt no particular gratitude when he tilted
a glass of port wine over her yellow satin, and laughed at the disaster; nor was she better
pleased, although old Osborne was highly delighted, when Georgie "whopped" her third boy, a
young gentleman a year older than Georgie, and by chance home for the holidays. George's grandfather
gave the boy a couple of sovereigns for that feat, and promised to reward him further for every
boy above his own size and age whom he whopped in a similar manner. It is difficult to say
what good the old man saw in these combats; he had a vague notion that quarrelling made boys
hardy, and that tyranny was a useful accomplishment for them to learn. Flushed with praise
and victory over Master Toffy, George wished naturally to pursue his conquests further, and
one day as he was strutting about in new clothes, near St. Paneras, and a young baker's boy
made sarcastic comments upon his appearance, the youthful patrician pulled off his dandy jacket
with great spirit, and giving it in charge to the friend who accompanied him (Master Todd,
of Great Coram Street, Russell Square, son of the junior partner of the house of Osborne &
Co.), tried to whop the little baker. But the chances of war were unfavourable this time, and
the little baker whopped Georgie, who came home with a rueful black eye and all his fine shirt
frill dabbled with the claret drawn from his own little nose. He told his grandfather that
he had been in combat with a giant; and frightened his poor mother at Brampton with long, and
by no means authentic, accounts of the battle.

This young Todd, of Coram Street, Russell Square, was Master George's great friend and admirer.
They both had a taste for painting theatrical characters; for hardbake and raspberry tarts;
for sliding and skating in the Regent's Park and the Serpentine, when the weather permitted;
for going to the play, whither they were often conducted, by Mr. Osborne's orders, by Rowson,
Master George's appointed body-servant, with whom they sate in great comfort in the pit.

In the company of this gentleman they visited all the principal theatres of the metropolis--knew
the names of all the actors from Drury Lane to Sadler's Wells; and performed, indeed, many
of the plays to the Todd family and their youthful friends, with West's famous characters,
on their pasteboard theatre.

A famous tailor from the West End of the town was summoned to ornament little Georgie's person,
and was told to spare no expense in so doing. So, Mr. Woolsey, of Conduit Street, gave a loose
rein to his imagination, and sent the child home fancy trowsers, fancy waistcoats, and fancy
jackets enough to furnish a school of little dandies. George had little white waistcoats for
evening parties, and little cut velvet waistcoats for evening parties, and little cut velvet
waistcoats for dinners, and a dear little darling shawl dressing-gown, for all the world like
a little man. He dressed for dinner every day, "like a regular West End swell," as his grandfather
remarked; one of the domestics was affected to his special service, attended him at his toilette,
answered his bell, and brought him his letters always on a silver tray.

Georgie, after breakfast, would sit in the arm-chair in the dining-room, and read the Morning
Post, just like a grown-up man. Those who remembered the Captain, his father, declared Master
George was his pa, every inch of him. He made the house lively by his activity, his imperiousness,
his scolding, and his good-nature.

George's education was confided to the Reverend Lawrence Veal, a private pedagogue who "prepared
young noblemen and gentlemen for the Universities, the Senate, and the learned professions;
whose system did not embrace the degrading corporal severities still practised at the ancient
places of education, and in whose family the pupils would find the elegances of refined society
and the confidence and affection of a home," as his prospectus stated.

Georgie was only a day pupil; he arrived in the morning, and if it was fine would ride away
in the afternoon, on his pony. The wealth of his grandfather was reported in the school to
be prodigious. The Reverend Mr. Veal used to compliment Georgie upon it personally, warning
him that he was destined for a high station; that it became him to prepare for the lofty duties
to which he would be called later; that obedience in the child was the best preparation for
command in the man; and that he therefore begged George would not bring toffee into the school
and ruin the health of the other pupils, who had everything they wanted at the elegant and
abundant table of Mrs. Veal.

Whenever Mr. Veal spoke he took care to produce the very finest and longest words of which
the vocabulary gave him the use, and his manner was so pompous that little Georgie, who had
considerable humour, used to mimic him to his face with great spirit and dexterity, without
ever being discovered. Amelia was bewildered by Mr. Veal's phrases, but thought him a prodigy
of learning, and made friends with his wife, that she might be asked to Mrs. Veal's receptions,
which took place once a month, and where the professor welcomed his pupils and their friends
to weak tea and scientific conversation. Poor little Amelia never missed one of these entertainments,
and thought them delicious so long as she might have George sitting by her.

As for the learning which George imbibed under Mr. Veal, to judge from the weekly reports which
the lad took home, his progress was remarkable. The name of a score or more of desirable branches
of knowledge were printed in a table, and the pupil's progress in each was marked by the professor.
In Greek Georgie was pronounced Aristos, in Latin Optimus, in French Très bien, etc.; and everybody
had prizes for everything at the end of the year. Even that idle young scapegrace of a Master
Todd, godson of Mr. Osborne, received a little eighteen-penny book, with Athene engraved on
it, and a pompous Latin inscription from the professor to his young friend. An example of Georgie's
facility in the art of composition is still treasured by his proud mother, and reads as follows:

Example: The selfishness of Achilles, as remarked by the poet Homer, occasioned a thousand
woes to the Greeks (Hom. II A 2). The selfishness of the late Napoleon Bonaparte occasioned
innumerable wars in Europe, and caused him to perish himself in a miserable island--that of
St. Helena in the Atlantic Ocean.

We see by these examples that we are not to consult our own interest and ambition, but that
we are to consider the interests of others as well as our own.

GEORGE SEDLEY OSBORNE.

ATHENE HOUSE, 24 April, 1827.

While Georgie's days were so full of new interests, Amelia's life was anything but one of pleasure,
for it was passed almost entirely in the sickroom of her mother, with only the gleams of joy
when little George visited her, or with an occasional walk to Russell Square. Then came the
day when the invalid was buried in the churchyard at Brompton and Amelia's little boy sat by
her side at the service in pompous new sables and quite angry that he could not go to a play
upon which he had set his heart, while his mother's thoughts went back to just such another
rainy, dark day, when she had married George Osborne in that very church.

After the funeral the widow went back to the bereaved old father, who was stunned and broken
by the loss of his wife, his honour, his fortune, in fact, everything he loved best. There
was only Amelia now to stand by the tottering, heart-broken old man. This she did, to the best
of her ability, all unconscious that on life's ocean a bark was sailing headed towards her
with those aboard who were to bring change and comfort to her life.

One day when the young gentlemen of Mr. Veal's select school were assembled in the study, a
smart carriage drove up to the door and two gentlemen stepped out. Everybody was interested,
from Mr. Veal himself, who hoped he saw the fathers of some future pupils arriving, down to
Master George, glad of any pretext of laying his book down.

The boy who always opened the door came into the study, and said: "Two gentlemen want to see
Master Osborne." The Professor had had a trifling dispute in the morning with that young gentleman,
owing to a difference about the introduction of crackers in school-time; but his face resumed
its habitual expression of bland courtesy, as he said, "Master Osborne, I give you full permission
to go and see your carriage friends,--to whom I beg you to convey the respectful compliments
of myself and Mrs. Veal."

George went into the reception room, and saw two strangers, whom he looked at with his head
up, in his usual haughty manner. One was fat, with moustaches, and the other was lean and long
in a blue frock coat, with a brown face, and a grizzled head.

"My God, how like he is!" said the long gentleman, with a start. "Can you guess who we are,
George?"

The boy's face flushed up, and his eyes brightened. "I don't know the other," he said, "but
I should think you must be Major Dobbin."

Indeed, it was Major Dobbin, who had come home on urgent private affairs, and who on board
the Ramchunder, East Indiaman, had fallen in with no other than the Widow Osborne's stout brother,
Joseph, who had passed the last ten years in Bengal. A voyage to Europe was pronounced necessary
for him, and having served his full time in India, and having laid by a considerable sum of
money, he was free to come home and stay with a good pension, or to return and resume that
rank in the service to which he was entitled.

Many and many a night as the ship was cutting through the roaring dark sea, the moon and stars
shining overhead, and the bell singing out the watch, Mr. Sedley and the Major would sit on
the quarter deck of the vessel, talking about home as they smoked. In these conversations,
with wonderful perseverance, Major Dobbin would always manage to bring the talk round to the
subject of Amelia. Jos was a little testy about his father's misfortunes and application to
him for money, but was soothed down by the Major, who pointed out the elder's ill fortunes
in old age. He pointed out how advantageous it would be for Jos Sedley to have a house of his
own in London, and how his sister Amelia would be the very person to preside over it; how elegant,
how gentle she was, and of what refined good manners. He then hinted how becoming it would
be for Jos to send Georgy to a good school and make a man of him. In a word, this artful Major
made Jos promise to take charge of Amelia and her unprotected child before that pompous civilian
made the discovery that he was binding himself.

Then came the arrival of the Ramchunder, the going ashore, and the entrance of the two men
into the little home where Amelia was keeping her faithful watch over her feeble father. The
excitement and surprise were a great shock to the old man, while to Amelia they were the greatest
happiness that could have come to her. Of course the first thing she did was to show Georgie's
miniature, and to tell of his great accomplishments, and then she secured the promise that
the Major and her brother would visit the Reverend Mr. Veal's school at the earliest possible
moment. This promise we have seen redeemed. Major Dobbin and Joseph Sedley, having become acquainted
with the details of Amelia's lonely life, and of Georgie's happy one, lost no time in altering
such circumstances as were within their power to change. Jos Sedley, notwithstanding his pompous
selfishness and egoism, had a very tender heart, and shortly after his first appearance at
Brompton, old Sedley and his daughter were carried away from the humble cottage in which they
had passed the last ten years of their life to the handsome new home which Jos Sedley had provided
for himself and them.

Good fortune now began to smile upon Amelia. Jos's friends were all from three presidencies,
and his new house was in the centre of the comfortable Anglo-Indian district. Owing to Jos
Sedley's position numbers of people came to see Mrs. Osborne who before had never noticed her.
Lady Dobbin and her daughters were delighted at her change of fortune, and called upon her.
Miss Osborne, herself, came in her grand chariot; Jos was reported to be immensely rich. Old
Osborne had no objection that George should inherit his uncle's property as well as his own.
"We will make a man of the fellow," he said; "and I will see him in parliament before I die.
You may go and see his mother, Miss Osborne, though I'll never set eyes on her"; and Miss Osborne
came. George was allowed to dine once or twice a week with his mother, and bullied the servants
and his relations there, just as he did in Russell Square.

He was always respectful to Major Dobbin, however, and more modest in his demeanour when that
gentleman was present. He was a clever lad, and afraid of the Major. George could not help
admiring his friend's simplicity, his good-humour, his various learning quietly imparted, his
general love of truth and justice. He had met no such man as yet in the course of his experience,
and he had an instinctive liking for a gentleman. He hung fondly by his god-father's side;
and it was his delight to walk in the Parks and hear Dobbin talk. William told George about
his father, about India and Waterloo, about everything but himself. When George was more than
usually pert and conceited, the Major joked at him, which Mrs. Osborne thought very cruel.
One day taking him to the play, and the boy declining to go into the pit because it was vulgar,
the Major took him to the boxes, left him there, and went down himself to the pit. He had not
been seated there very long before he felt an arm thrust under his, and a dandy little hand
in a kid-glove squeezing his arm. George had seen the absurdity of his ways, and come down
from the upper region. A tender laugh of benevolence lighted up old Dobbin's face and eyes
as he looked at the repentant little prodigal. He loved the boy very deeply.

If there was a sincere liking between George and the Major, it must be confessed that between
the boy and his Uncle Joseph no great love existed. George had got a way of blowing out his
cheeks, and putting his hands in his waistcoat pockets, and saying, "God bless my soul, you
don't say so," so exactly after the fashion of old Jos, that it was impossible to refrain from
laughter. The servants would explode at dinner if the lad, asking for something which wasn't
at table, put on that countenance and used that favourite phrase. Even Dobbin would shoot out
a sudden peal at the boy's mimicry. If George did not mimic his uncle to his face, it was only
by Dobbin's rebukes and Amelia's terrified entreaties that the little scapegrace was induced
to desist. And Joseph, having a dim consciousness that the lad thought him an ass, and was
inclined to turn him into ridicule, used to be of course doubly pompous and dignified in the
presence of Master George. When it was announced that the young gentleman was expected to dine
with his mother, Mr. Jos commonly found that he had an engagement at the Club, and perhaps
nobody was much grieved at his absence.

Before long Amelia had a visiting-book, and was driving about regularly in a carriage, from
which a buttony boy sprang from the box with Amelia's and Jos's visiting cards. At stated hours
Emmy and the carriage went to the Club, and took Jos for an airing; or, putting old Sedley
into the vehicle, she drove the old man round the Regent's Park. We are not long in growing
used to changes in life. Her lady's-maid and the chariot, her visiting book, and the buttony
page became soon as familiar to Amelia as the humble routine of Brompton. She accommodated
herself to one as to the other, and entertained Jos's friends with the same unselfish charm
with which she cared for and amused old John Sedley.

Then came the day when that poor old man closed his eyes on the familiar scenes of earth, and
Major Dobbin, Jos, and George followed his remains-to the grave in a black cloth coach. "You
see," said old Osborne to George, when the burial was over, "what comes of merit and industry
and good speculation, and that. Look at me and my bank account. Look at your poor Grandfather
Sedley, and his failure. And yet he was a better man than I was, this day twenty years--a better
man, I should say, by ten thousand pounds." And this worldly wisdom little George received
in profound silence, taking it for what it was worth.

About this time old Osborne conceived much admiration for Major Dobbin, which he had acquired
from the world's opinion of that gentleman. Also Major Dobbin's name appeared in the lists
of one or two great parties of the nobility, which circumstance had a prodigious effect upon
the old aristocrat of Russell Square. Also the Major's position as guardian to George, whose
possession had been ceded to his grandfather, rendered some meetings between the two gentleman
inevitable, and it was in one of these that old Osborne, from a chance hint supplied by the
blushing Major, discovered that a part of the fund upon which the poor widow and her child
had subsisted during their time of want, had been supplied out of William Dobbin's own pocket.
This information gave old Osborne pain, but increased his admiration for the Major, who had
been such a loyal friend to his son's wife. From that time it was evident that old Osborne's
opinion was softening, and soon Jos and the Major were asked to dinner at Russell Square,--to
a dinner the most splendid that perhaps ever Mr. Osborne gave; every inch of the family plate
was exhibited and the best company was asked. More than once old Osborne asked Major Dobbin
about Mrs. George Osborne,--a theme on which the Major could be very eloquent.

"You don't know what she endured, sir," said honest Dobbin; "and I hope and trust you will
be reconciled to her. If she took your son away from you, she gave hers to you; and however
much you loved your George, depend on it, she loved hers ten times more."

"You are a good fellow, sir!" was all Mr. Osborne said. But it was evident in later events
that the conversation had had its effect upon the old man. He sent for his lawyers, and made
some changes in his will, which was well, for one day shortly after that act he died suddenly.

When his will was read it was found that half the property was left to George. Also an annuity
of five hundred pounds was left to his mother, "the widow of my beloved son, George Osborne,"
who was to resume the guardianship of the boy.

Major William Dobbin was appointed executor, "and as out of his kindness and bounty he maintained
my grandson and my son's widow with his own private funds when they were otherwise without
means of support" (the testator went on to say), "I hereby thank him heartily, and beseech
him to accept such a sum as may be sufficient to purchase his commission as a Lieutenant Colonel,
or to be disposed of in any way he may think fit." When Amelia heard that her father-in-law
was reconciled to her, her heart melted, and she was grateful for the fortune left to her.
But when she heard how George was restored to her, and that it had been William's bounty that
supported her in poverty, that it was William who had reconciled old Osborne to her, then her
gratitude and joy knew no bounds.

When the nature of Mr. Osborne's will became known to the world, once more Mrs. George Osborne
rose in the estimation of the people forming her circle of acquaintance; even Jos himself paid
her and her rich little boy, his nephew, the greatest respect, and began to show her much more
attention than formerly.

