A' o' a sudden Sandy grippit an' auld roosty hewk that was lyin' on the boiler, an' roarin',
"Whaur's Pottie Lawson, an' I'll cut his wizand till him," he made a flee at the door.  You
never saw sic a scramblin' an' fleein'. 

"~ You ~ Tam," screamed an old, portly islander, a burning piece of red calico around his waist and
another around her shoulders and wore a long enough wrong with Sailor have liked to think of their
favorite cry or curse - "~ ~ tam you, you dirty White - because you carry ten times the skin
under your feet, you throw around the glass, as it Mandrel and shell breakage cuts in our soles
- you ~ ~ tam, I say again, and the Day be cursed, who brought you first on this coast! "

The old woman did not remain in this unsupported, because of all sides came up the girls, cursed
and reviled in their own language and it began the dangerous glass shards, them already cut
some nasty wound to visit from the floor. In vain they called the sailors back and added finally,
as prayers were useless as threats, laughing the inevitable, himself the cheerful, lively crowd
and beizustehn to help and Evil to raise as much as possible - to visit all the points that
is threatening or To remove and no leaf remained awkward here, under which even had the treacherous
tip may harbor.

"Hurrah, my boys! Who of you has lost his prize money as in the leaves? - Fifty-fifty if I think
it's, "cried a rough voice at this moment between laughter and fury of the lively crowd in, and
sat up quickly One of the sailors up to see who the Newcomer was, and whether perhaps an old
friend and shipmate here between they show up.

"Hello, comrade," grumbled but when he saw a completely strange face in front of him, which
he but still quite friendly towards nodded, and its owner is as comfortable and without another
invitation to them throwing the grass, as if he was one of their "people" - "~ where do ~ you
hail from? "[A]

The speaker was the boatswain of the "Joan of Arc ~ ~," the outside of the bay in front of her
anchor rode and had gotten his team holiday today, because of the large public meeting. He seemed
to also be considered almost as a kind of authority between the other Sailors, and besides, justified
the whole exterior of the new arrivals, our old friend Jim of the Irishman, but such a question,
because the old sailor came over against him, almost involuntarily, as if he had anything to
do with the right Sailor, and yet had but again the detail of his suit seen nothing to justify such a
suspicion liked. The blue jacket like the white linen trousers had the right cut, with the oil-cloth
coated straw hat sitting behind him on the curly hair and a few broad stripes black silk Volume fell
to him right way forward over the left eye down and yet there was a certain Something in the
whole conduct of the foreign, the old fellow who, some long, long Year on the lake and all the
countries grappling ships, as a kind of instinct came over, he born here had no seaman on, and
the guy at the end did sail under false Flag.

The real sailor - not the one who chooses the lake once a time to his profession, a Some travel
may make, and then again years at the continent remains - has something in his whole being,
that is impossible to acquire if it is not just natural from the whole system of our body comes
out and buy one with it. The main point here is the most swinging and yet again firm and elastic
response of the constant movement the ship since he must of course meet constantly, and those who
then forces to put the legs a little further, though almost imperceptibly, from one another,
to that on the mainland would be necessary, the arms hang it, as if drawn by its own weight,
degree the body down, but without him, neither left nor right to touch in three inches, and
the semi-hard open hand looks just like as if every gripping moment of sailing or dew may.
  She was terriple taen up when I said you wasna able to be up the day, an' howps
ye'll be better gin the morn."

"I think I'm better, but I'm awfu' licht i' the heid yet," says Bawbie. "Ye micht get the pen
an' ink, Sandy, an' send a scart or twa to thae prenter bodies.  Juist say I've taen a kind
o' a dwam, but that I'll likely be a' richt again in a day or twa.  An' see an' watch your
spellin'.  Gin ony o' the wirds are like to beat ye, juist speer at me, an' I'll gie ye a hand
wi' them."

"A' richt than, Bawbie; I'll do that," says I.  "Noo, juist try an' get a sleep for a whilie,
an' I'll go ben to the shop dask an' write a scrift for you."

So noo when I have the chance, I'll better juist mention that Bawbie got terriple seek i' the
forenicht yesterday, an' she hardly ever steekit an e'e a' lest nicht.  An' nether did I, for
that pairt o't, for she byochy-byochied awa' the feck o' the nicht, an' I cudna get fa'in'
ower.  But I didna say onything, for I doot I'm to blame, although I've never lutten dab that
I jaloosed ony thing had happened.

Bawbie was juist gaen awa' to hae her efternune cup yesterday, an' I was chappin' oot the dottle
o' my pipe on the corner o' the chumla, when it flaw oot an' gaed oot o' sicht some wey.  I
socht heich an' laich for't, but na, na; it wasna to be gotten.  I thocht syne it had gane
into the fire.  But it's my opinion noo, it had fa'in' into Bawbie's teapot!  She was sayin'
ilky noo-an'-than, "That tea has a dispert queer taste, Sandy.  What can be the maitter wi't?"
I never took thocht; but when Bawbie fell seek, an' groo as white's a penny lafe, thinks I
to mysel', "That's your dottle, Sandy Bowden!"  But I never lut wink; for, keep me, if Bawbie
had kent, I micht as weel gane awa' an' sleepit on the Sands for the next twa-three nichts.
She's a gude-heartit budy; but, man, she gets intil an awfu' pavey whiles, an' she's nether
to hand nor to bind when she gets raised.  But, for ony sake, dinna lat on I was sayin' onything. 

# The Queen Pomare.

#

The storm had abated, but the west of the shaft foam hurled against the Leeufer [F] the island, and the
heavy palm tops, which the palace Aimatas, the fourth of the Pomare,
surrounded swayed to and fro, and shook the heavy drop from the fruit
decorated Crown.

The Palace of Pomare - a magic otherwise lay in the sanctuary, which
is a happy good-natured and therefore also decorated gullible people
with all that his mind only Large and was able to invent sublime.

What did it matter if only bamboo rods supported the light roof of pandanus leaves, only finely
woven Mats and woven itself Tapa the inner space qualified and veiled - what did it matter whether
the Chiefs of simple calebash their Brodfruchtpoe consumed and the
juice of the cocoa-nut to drinking, they were protected by Oro princes,
and the reason already holy, which you Foot entered.

And now? - The traffic with the Europeans had the old simple customs of the islanders displaced - the missionaries,
rather than their simple life adapt drew greed this otherwise unassuming modest nature of the
strange things they brought in mass; the protection of the king himself was through gifts - great
stuff that just looked colorful bargain and nothing more was used as the place to make uncomfortable,
scary, it was on the - Keep looking, and how the Prince indulged more the stranger, whose peculiar
Gifts they won as they descended from their height and their gods himself last to glass beads
and other colorful things bartered to recognize a different God, the they took those dark black
men, then there was the royal power, though the outward pomp remained, indeed, for the moment,
as the last flicker of a lamp, may have been further enhanced and
strengthened in the short term.

What the Royal Majesty on the Sandwich Islands, where missionaries first Republican God's word
brought over, raised, namely, that the members of the royal family, especially the women [G]
of the Christian religion adhered, and with that power, the people, then brought at last, at
least outwardly, to submit to the new cult, which had to the Society Islands, where the priests
of a monarchy, first with a cross and the Bible landed, the opposite effect in spite of the rigid
which the Pomares, in their hearts at least, each opposed the Christian religion, and in later
years, and actually broken only by illness and hope with the help of the whites the reins his government's
solid back to take in hand, the second to the Christian Pomare Religion came about, but otherwise
his manners, and most likely inside his old faith, fairly maintained.

The prince, which one then considered only supernatural beings were human, the gods, which until
then had ruled the destinies of peoples and held his hand over land and See, were to pieces Cocosholz,
- the belief that fear, even the worst of all, the Love of the people
was a delusion, was a beautiful dream, and that just the people then
to extremes skipped be imagined.

The simple bamboo house, which the Tahitians other than the ruler established his kings with timid awe,
but looked up with love was gone, and instead stood on its a European building with shingles,
with verandah and staircase, with doors and glass windows there, the dense and impenetrable walls
of the cool sea breeze, the roof of strange and unnatural into staring at the slender palm trees
- the interior of this wild and colorful and tasteless with great decorated cluttered gifts of various
ships and countries or more displaced, with porcelain and glass, bronze and brass, silver-plated
chandeliers, gilded Jewelry, with Services and harnesses, so tasteless
as ordered or confused rather put out of their way.  As Bawbie says, I'll
never behave till I'm killed; an' the fac' o' the maitter is, I'm no' very shure aboot mysel'
even efter that.  I ken it's an awfu' job for Bawbie tholin' my ongaens; but, at the same time,
if it wasna me, the neeper wives an her wudna hae onything to mak' a molligrant aboot ava.
As the Bible says, we're fearfu' an' winderfu' made, an', I suppose, we maun juist mak' the
best o't.

THE END.