Yes--bring it up--except the tea of course--they ought to be here at any time.'

'And Mrs. Weston wants to know what time supper's to be?'

The fair-haired girl speaking was clearly north-country. TENNYSON.

Her met and see the best ways of working together.

THE Sharp STATES AT the WAR IN FRANCE Adapted with few omissions and
changes in the language from the report General Pershing made November
20, 1918, to the Secretary of War. And the maid-servant, as she went downstairs, decided for
the twentieth time that afternoon, that she didn't like Miss Cookson, and she hoped her sister,
Mrs. Sarratt, would be nicer. Miss Cookson had been poking her nose into everything that afternoon,
fiddling with the rooms and furniture, and interfering with Mrs. Weston. As if Mrs. Weston
didn't know what to order for lodgers, and how to make them comfortable! As if she hadn't had
dozens of brides and bridegrooms to look after before this!--and if she hadn't given them all
satisfaction, would they ever have sent her all them picture-postcards which decorated her
little parlour downstairs?

All the same, the house-parlourmaid, Milly by name, was a good deal excited about this particular
couple who were now expected. For Mrs. Weston had told her it had been a 'war wedding,' and
the bridegroom was going off to the front in a week. Milly's own private affairs--in connection
with a good-looking fellow, formerly a gardener at Bowness, now recently enlisted in one of
the Border regiments--had caused her to take a special interest in the information, and had
perhaps led her to put a bunch of monthly roses on Mrs. Sarratt's dressing-table. Miss Cookson
hadn't bothered herself about flowers. That she might have done!--instead of fussing over things
that didn't concern her--just for the sake of ordering people about.

When the little red-haired maid had left the room, the lady she disliked returned to the window,
and stood there absorbed in reflections that were not gay, to judge from the furrowed brow
and pinched lips that accompanied them. Bridget Cookson was about thirty; not precisely handsome,
but at the same time, not ill-looking. Her eyes were large and striking, and she had masses
of dark hair, tightly coiled about her head as though its owner felt it troublesome and in
the way. She was thin, but rather largely built, and her movements were quick and decided.
Her tweed dress was fashionably cut, but severely without small ornament of any kind.

She looked out upon a beautiful corner of English Lakeland. The house in which she stood was
built on the side of a little river, which, as she saw it, came flashing and sparkling out
of a lake beyond, lying in broad strips of light and shade amid green surrounding fells. The
sun was slipping low, and would soon have kindled all the lake into a white fire, in which
its islands would have almost disappeared. But, for the moment, everything was plain:--the
sky, full of light, and filmy grey cloud, the fells with their mingling of wood and purple
crag, the shallow reach of the river beyond the garden, with a little family of wild duck floating
upon it, and just below her a vivid splash of colour, a mass of rhododendron in bloom, setting
its rose-pink challenge against the cool greys and greens of the fell.

But Bridget Cookson was not admiring the view. It was not new to her, and moreover she was
not in love with Westmorland at all; and why Nelly should have chosen this particular spot,
to live in, while George was at the war, she did not understand. She believed there was some
sentimental reason. They had first seen him in the Lakes--just before the war--when they two
girls and their father were staying actually in this very lodging-house. But sentimental reasons
are nothing.

Well, the thing was done. Nelly was married, and in another week, George would be at the front.
Perhaps in a fortnight's time she would be a widow. Such things have happened often. 'And then
what shall I do with her?' thought the sister, irritably,--recoiling from a sudden vision of
Nelly in sorrow, which seemed to threaten her own life with even greater dislocation than had
happened to it already. 'I must have my time to myself!--freedom for what I want'--she thought
to herself, impatiently, 'I can't be always looking after her.'

Yet of course the fact remained that there was no one else to look after Nelly. They had been
left alone in the world for a good while now. Their father, a Manchester cotton-broker in a
small way, had died some six months before this date, leaving more debts than fortune. The
two girls had found themselves left with very small means, and had lived, of late, mainly in
lodgings--unfurnished rooms--with some of their old furniture and household things round them.
Their father, though unsuccessful in business, had been ambitious in an old-fashioned way for
his children, and they had been brought up 'as gentlefolks'--that is to say without any trade
or profession.

But their poverty had pinched them disagreeably--especially Bridget, in whom it had produced
a kind of angry resentment. Their education had not been serious enough, in these days of competition,
to enable them to make anything of teaching after their Father's death. Nelly's water-colour
drawing, for instance, though it was a passion with her, was quite untrained, and its results
unmarketable. Bridget had taken up one subject after another, and generally in a spirit of
antagonism to her surroundings, who, according to her, were always 'interfering' with what
she wanted to do,--with her serious and important occupations. But these occupations always
ended by coming to nothing; so that, as Bridget was irritably aware, even Nelly had ceased
to be as much in awe of them as she had once been.

But the elder sister had more solid cause than this for dissatisfaction with the younger. Nelly
had really behaved like a little fool! But the evening was interrupted pretty by these attainment
of the Dane, who said that he had run up to two say good-bye. I had never she passed the day. The house
was delightfully noisy, and she was perfection hostess. That seemed rather polite and proper,
so I implore them to one excuse, while I went into the den to some letters. They were long letters.
She said that Mr. Dane had asked her to go with him-- would actually
be wholly right?

The period Manchester s Manchester Peggy was evidently flustered, but
divinely radiant.


But Nelly had just wilfully and stubbornly fallen in love with this young man--and wilfully
and stubbornly married him. It was unlike her to be stubborn about anything. But in this there
had been no moving her. And now there was nothing before either of them but the same shabbiness
and penury as before. What if George had two hundred and fifty a year of his own, besides his
pay?--a fact that Nelly was always triumphantly brandishing in her sister's eyes.

No doubt it was more than most young subalterns had--much more. But what was two hundred and
fifty a year? Nelly would want every penny of it for herself--and her child--or children. For
of course there would be a child--Bridget Cookson fell into profound depths of thought, emerging
from them, now as often before, with the sore realisation of how much Nelly might have done
with her 'one talent,' both for herself and her sister, and had not done.

The sun dropped lower; one side of the lake was now in shadow, and from the green shore beneath
the woods and rocks, the reflections of tree and crag and grassy slope were dropping down and
down, unearthly clear and far, to that inverted heaven in the 'steady bosom' of the water.
A little breeze came wandering, bringing delicious scents of grass and moss, and in the lake
the fish were rising.

