Besides the New York Public Library copy, here reproduced, I know of but one copy, which is
in the Indiana University Library. Neither the Bodleian nor the British Museum has a copy.

Like many items in the Defoe canon, this tract must be assigned to him on the basis of internal
evidence; but this evidence, though circumstantial, is convincing. W.P. Trent included A Vindication
in his bibliography of Defoe in the CHEL, and later bibliographers of Defoe have followed him
in accepting it. Since the copy here reproduced was the one examined by Professor Trent, the
following passage from his ms. notes is of interest:

     The tract was advertised, for "this day," in the St. James
     Evening Post, April 19-22, 1718. It is not included in the
     chief lists of Defoe's writings, but it has been sold as
     his, and the only copy I have seen, one kindly loaned me by
     Dr. J.E. Spingarn, once belonged to some eighteenth century
     owner, who wrote Defoe's name upon it. I was led by the
     advertisement mentioned above to seek the pamphlet, thinking
     it might be Defoe's; but I failed to secure a sight of it
     until Professor Spingarn asked me whether in my opinion the
     ascription to Defoe was warranted, and produced his copy.

Perhaps the most striking evidence for Defoe's authorship of A Vindication is the extraordinary
reference to his own natural parts and to the popularity of The True-Born Englishman some seventeen
years after that topical poem had appeared [pp. 29f.]. Defoe was justly proud of this verse
satire, one of his most successful works, and referred to it many times in later writings;
it is hard to believe, however, that anyone but Defoe would have praised it in such fulsome
terms in 1718.

The general homeliness and facility of the style, together with characteristic phrases which
occur in his other writings, indicate Defoe's hand. Likewise homely similitudes and comparisons,
specific parallels with his known work, and characteristic treatment of matter familiar in
his other works, all furnish evidence of his authorship of this pamphlet.

Just what motive caused Defoe to write A Vindication of the Press is not clear. Unlike his
earlier An Essay on the Regulation of the Press (1704), A Vindication does not seem to have
been occasioned by a specific situation, and in it Defoe is not alone concerned with freedom
of the press, but writes on a more general and discursive level. His opening paragraph states
that "The very great Clamour against some late Performances of Authorship, and the unprecedented
Criticisms introduc'd" make such an essay as he writes "absolutely necessary." Yet there is
no clear indication of just what works occasion this necessity. The ironic reference to Mr.
Dennis at the end of the first paragraph, taken together with the praise of Mr. Pope's translation
of Homer and the allusion to "the malicious and violent Criticisms of a certain Gentleman in
its Disfavour" [p. 23], might suggest that Defoe had in mind Dennis' Remarks upon Mr. Pope's
Translation of Homer, but even the entire body of writings attacking Pope's Homer would hardly
seem sufficient to give point to this somewhat omnibus and unfocused essay.

Equally suggestive, perhaps, are Defoe's references to the Bangorian controversy and to Bishop
Hoadley [pp. 10, 23]. This controversy raged from 1717 to 1720 and produced a spate of pamphlets
(to which Defoe contributed), many of which were marked by heated argument and acrimony. Defoe,
with his liking for moderation, no doubt intended to make an oblique criticism of the license
of many of the Bangorian tracts. But these tracts are certainly not advanced as the prime occasion
for A Vindication.

Defoe points out in the first section of his essay how important is freedom of the press as
the foundation of the "valuable liberties" of Englishmen. I have been unable to find any reference
to a specific threat of regulation of the press at this time that might have occasioned A Vindication.
Nevertheless, it is possible that sentiment for control of the press, perhaps incited by the
Bangorian controversy, was felt in 1718 and may have been a contributing motive to the composition
of this tract. Whatever the immediate motives for writing it may have been, the variety of
its contents suggests that Defoe saw an opportunity to turn a penny, to express himself on
a number of his pet subjects, and to defend his own position as a professional writer.

A Vindication is made up of three clearly marked sections: in the first the author vindicates
the usefulness of writing; in the second he discusses the usefulness--it would be more exact
to say the harmfulness--of criticism; in the third he expatiates upon the qualifications of
authors. One may admit at once the comparative worthlessness of the pamphlet as a contribution
to criticism or critical theory. Defoe's comments upon specific writers are thoroughly conventional
and commonplace, as may be seen from a glance at his remarks about Milton, Chaucer, Spenser,
Shakespeare, and others on p. 12.

Of more interest is his very high praise of Dryden, "a Man for Learning and universal Writing
in Poetry, perhaps the greatest that England has produc'd" [p. l5], and his comment upon the
critical detraction from which he suffered. He compares Pope, interestingly enough, with Dryden,
remarking that Pope ("a Person tho' Inferior to Mr. Dryden, yet speaking Impartially has few
Superiors in this Age") also is persecuted by envy; and he has generous praise for that poet's
translation of Homer. One may note that Defoe avoids the shortcomings of the critics whom he
condemns for judging according to party. He distributes his praise indiscriminately between
Whig and Tory writers. In short, his essay hardly does more than confirm the critical commonplaces
of the time and attest to the catholicity of the author's taste.

Of particular interest for students of Defoe is the paragraph [p. 2l] in which Defoe defends
the hack-writers who must write for subsistence. One should not expect their writings, which
are necessarily numerous, to be as correct and finished as they might be. After comparing their
pens to prostitutes because of their venality, he claims, in a half-ironic tone, for both authors
and booksellers the liberty of writing and printing for either or both sides without ignominy.
After all, they must write and print to live. Such practice is certainly, he observes, no more
unjust or disreputable than other ways of gaining wealth such as one finds in Exchange-Alley.

This paragraph gains point when one remembers that Defoe had served both Whig and Tory governments.
In 1718, as letters written to Lord Stanhope in that very year testify, he was engaged in the
perhaps dubious business of masquerading as a Tory, while actually in the service of the Whig
ministry, to take the "sting" out of the more violent Tory periodicals; and he was much concerned
with the danger of his ambiguous position. In December of 1717 he had been identified as a
writer for Mist's Weekly Journal, the leading Tory paper, and was subjected to growing attacks
in the Whig press. One can hardly doubt that this paragraph is a thinly veiled defense of his
own practice as a professional journalist.

It is no surprise to find the author of A Vindication, in discussing the qualifications of
writers, advocating the importance of genius and "Natural Parts" above mere learning. He instances
the author of The True-Born Englishman and Shakespeare, the former "Characteriz'd as a Person
of Little Learning, but of prodigious Natural Parts" and the latter having "but a small share
of Literature." The further example of the literary achievements of the "Fair Sex," who had,
of course, no university education, reminds one of Defoe's championship elsewhere of women.
The business of a writer is "to please and inform," and the general implication is that genius
is more necessary to this end than learning. 

Then I concluded that they had decided to be foliage plants or rhubarb. But they did not try to
live up to their portraits. Pretty soon I discovered that they had no bugs which seemed to
go with them, and then I knew they were weeds. Things that are good to eat always have bugs and
worms on them, while tansy and castor-oil go through life unmolested.

I ordered a new style of gladiola eight years ago of a man who had his portrait in the bow of his
seed catalogue. If he succeeds no better in resembling his portrait than his gladiolas did in resembling
theirs, he must be a human onion whose presence may easily be detected
at a great distance.

Last
year I planted the seeds of a watermelon which I bought of a New York seedsman who writes war articles
winters and sells garden seeds in the Spring. The portrait of this watermelon would tempt
most any man to climb a nine-rail fence in the dead of night and forget all else in order
to drown his better nature and his nose in its cool bosom. People came for miles to look at the
picture of this melon and went away with a pleasant taste in their
mouths.

The plants were a little sluggish, though I planted in hills far apart each way in a rich warm
loam enriched by everything that could make a sincere watermelon get up and hump itself. The
melons were to be very large indeed, with a center like a rose.

According to the picture, these melons generally grew so large and plenty that most everybody had to
put side-boards on the garden fence to keep them from falling over into other farms and annoying
people who had all the melons they needed.

I fought squash bugs, cut worms, Hessian flies, chinch bugs, curculio,
mange, pip, drought, dropsy, caterpillars and contumely till the latter
part of August, when a friend from India came to visit me.

I decided to cut a watermelon in honor of his arrival.

When the proper moment had arrived and the dinner had progressed
till the point of fruit, the tropical depths of my garden gave up
their season's wealth in the shape of a low-browed citron about as
large and succulent as a hot ball.

I have had other similar experiences, and I think we ought to do something about it if we can.
I have planted the seed of the morning glory and the moon flower and dreamed at night that my home
looked like a florist's advertisement, but when leafy June came a bunch of Norway oats and a hill
of corn were trying to climb the strings nailed up for the use of
my non-resident vines.

I have planted with song and laughter the seeds of the ostensible
pansy and carnation, only in tears to reap the bachelor's button and
the glistening foliage of the sorghum plant.

I have planted in faith and a deep, warm soil, with pleasing hope
in my heart and a dark-red picture on the outside of the package,
only to harvest the low, vulgar jimson weed and the night-blooming
bull thistle.

Does the mean temperature or the average rainfall have anything to do with it? If statistics are
working these changes they ought to be stopped. For my own part, however, I am led to believe
that our seedsmen put so much money into their catalogues that they
do not have anything left to use in the purchase of seeds.

Good religion and very fair cookies may be produced without the aid of caraway seed, but you
cannot gather nice, fresh train figs of thistles or expect much of a seedsman whose plants make
no effort whatever to resemble their pictures.

Hoping that you will examine into this matter, and that the club will always hereafter look carefully
in this column for its farm information, I remain, in a sitting posture,
yours truly.

BILL NYE. The Quakers might at this Time possibly have been
our National Church, and our present Happiness, with regard to those Considerations, can no
way be more lively and amply demonstrated than in taking a step at once from Mr. Penn's Conventicle
to the Cathedral Church of St. Pauls.

The Regularity and heavenly Decorum of the latter, give an Awe and Transport to the Audience
at the same time they ornament Religion; and the Confusion of the former fully shews, that
as it only serves to amuse a Crowd of ignorant Wretches, unless meerly with temporal Views
(Sectarists generally calculating Religion for their Interests) so it gives a License to all
manner of Indecencies, and the Congregations usually resort thither with the same Regard as
a Rake of the Town would do to Mother Wybourn's, or any publick Place of Diversion.

Whether it be not natural to have expected a Confusion in the Church, equal to that of the
worst Sectaries in the World, had not the Use of Waiting been early attain'd and practis'd,
I appeal to the Breast of every unprejudic'd Reader; and if so, how infinitely happy are we
by the Use of our Sacred Writings, which clear up the Cloud of Ignorance and Error, and give
a Sanction to our Religion, besides the Satisfaction we of the Church of England have in this
felicitous Contemplation, that our Religion, since the Reformation, strictly observ'd, is the
nearest that of our Saviour and his Apostles of any Profession of Faith upon Earth.

'Tis owing to Writing, that we enjoy the purest Religion in the World, and exclusive of it,
there would have been no possibility of transmitting down entirely those valuable Maxims of
Solomon, and the Sufferings of the Righteous Job, in the old Testament; which are so extensive
to all Parts and Stations of Life, that as they are infinitely preferable to all other Writings
of the Kind, so they afford the greatest Comfort and Repose in the Vicisitudes incident to
Humane Nature.

How far Theology is improv'd from those inestimable Writings, I need not to enlarge, since
it is highly conspicuous that they are the Foundation of all Divine Literature; and how ignorant
and imperfect we should have been without them, is no great difficulty to explain; and who
can sufficiently admire the Psalter of David, which fills the Soul with Rapture, and gives
an Anticipation of sublimest Joys.

Besides the Advantages of Sacred Writings in the Cause of Religion; 'tis chiefly owing to Writing,
that we have our most valuable Liberties preserv'd; and 'tis observable, that the Liberty of
the Press is no where restrain'd but in Roman Catholick Countries, or Kingdoms, or States Exercising
an Absolute Power.

In the Kingdom of France Writings relating to the Church and State are prohibited upon the
severest Penalties, and the Consequences of those Laws are very Obvious to all Persons of Discernment
here; they serve to secure the Subject in the utmost Obscurity, and as it were Effect an entire
Ignorance, whereby an exorbitant Power is chearfully submitted to, and a perfect Obedience
paid to Tyranny; and the Ignorance and Superstition of these People so powerfully prevail,
that the greatest Oppressor is commonly the most entirely Belov'd, which I take to be sufficiently
ently Illustrated in the late Lewis the Fourteenth, whose Arbitrary Government was so far from
Diminishing the Affections of his Subjects, that it highten'd their Esteem for their Grand Monarch.

But of late the populace of France are not so perfectly enclouded with Superstition, and if
a young Author can pretend to Divine, I think it is easy to foresee that the papal Power will
in a very short space be considerably lessen'd if not in a great measure disregarded in that
Kingdom, by the intestine Jarrs and Discords of their Parties for Religion, and the Desultory
Judgments of the most considerable Prelates.

The best Support of an Arbitrary Power is undoubtedly Ignorance, and this cannot be better
cultivated than by an Absolute Denial of Printing; the Oppressions of the Popularity cannot
be thoroughly Stated, or Liberty in general Propagated without the use of the Press in some
measure, and therefore the Subjects must inevitably submit to such Ordinances as an Ambitious
or Ignorant Monarch and his Tyrannical Council shall think fit to impose upon them, how Arbitrary
soever: And the Hands of the Patriots and Men of Eminence who should Illuminate the Age, and
open the Eyes of the deluded People are thereby tied up, and the Infelicity of the Populace
so compleat that they are incapable of either seeing their approaching Misery, or having a
redress of present Grievances.

In Constantinople I think they have no such thing as Printing allow'd on any Account whatsoever;
all their Publick Acts relating to the Church and State are recorded in Writing by expert Amanuensis's,
so very strict are the Divan and great Council of the Sultan in prohibiting the Publication
of all manner of Writings: They are very sensible had Persons a common Liberty of stating their
own Cases, they might Influence the Publick so far, that the Yoke of Tyranny must sink if not
be rendred insupportable; and this is regarded in all Kingdoms and Countries upon Earth Govern'd
by a Despotick Power.

To what I have already offer'd in favour of the Press, there may be Exceptions taken by some
Persons in the World; and as it is my Intentions to solve all Objections that may be rais'd
to what I advance, as I proceed, I think I cannot too early make known, that I am apprehensive
the following Observations may be made; viz. that a general License of the Press is of such
a fatal Tendency, that it causes Uneasinesses in the State, Confusions in the Church, and is
destructive sometimes even to Liberty, by putting the ruling Powers upon making Laws of Severity,
on a Detection of ill Designs against the State, otherwise never intended.

In answer to which, I shall give the following Particulars: In respect to Uneasinesses in the
State, it may not be amiss to premise, that it is esteem'd by Men of Penetration, no small
Wisdom in the present Administration, to bestow Preferments on the brightest and most enterprising
Authors of the Age; but whether it be so much out of a Regard to the Service they are capable
of to the State in their Employs, as to their Writing for the Government, and to answer treasonable
Pamphlets, poison'd Pens, &c. I do not take upon me to determine. I must confess, where a Faction
prevails, it gives a sensible Monarch some Pain to see Disafection propagated by the Press,
without any manner of Restraint; but then, on the other Hand, such a Ruler is thereby let into
the Secrets of the Faction, he may with facility penetrate into their deepest Intrigues, and
be enabled to avert an impending Storm. Upon approach of a Rebellion, he will be thoroughly
sensible from what Quarter his greatest Danger is to be expected, whereby it will be entirely
his own Fault, if he be without a sufficient Guard against it, which he could not be appriz'd
of (with any certainty) without a general Liberty of Writing: And tho' Slander must occasion
a great deal of Uneasiness to a crown'd Head, the Power of bestowing Favours on Friends only
is no small Satisfaction to the Prince, and a sufficient Punishment to his Enemies. And it
is my Opinion, that the Grand Sultan, and other Eastern Potentates, would be in a great deal
less danger of Deposing, (a Practice very frequent of late) if in some measure a Liberty of
Writing was allow'd; for the Eyes of the People would be open, as well for as against their
Prince, and their fearing a worse Evil should succeed, might make them easy under a present
Oppression.

As for Confusion in the Church, I look upon this to be the greatest Objection that can be raised;
but then it must be allow'd, that without Writing the Reformation (the Glory of our Religion)
could never have been effected; and in respect to religious Controversies, tho' I own they
are seldom attended with good Consequences, yet I must beg leave to observe, that as the Age
we now live in, is more bright and shining in substantial Literature than any preceding Century,
so the generality of Mankind are capable of judging with such an Exactness as to avoid a Bad;
not but, I confess, I think many of the Persons concern'd in the Controversy lately on foot,
with relation to the Bishop of Bangor's Sermon, preach'd before His Majesty, deserve to be
stigmatiz'd, as well for their indecent Heat, as for the Latitude taken with regard to the
Holy Scriptures. And for the last Objection, I never knew that Writing was any ways destructive
to Liberty, unless it was in a Pamphlet, [entitled King-Killing no Murder] which 'tis said
occasion'd the Death of Oliver Cromwel.

These are the Uses of Writings in the Church and the State, with Answers to such Objections
as may be made against them, not to mention particularly in respect to the former, the Writings
of the Fathers, and even of some Heathen Philosophers, such as Seneca, &c. And besides the
valuable Performances of our most eminent Divines in all Ages, as Dr. Taylor, Bishop Usher,
Tillotson, Beveridge &c. and The whole Duty of Man, &c. in our private Devotions. I now proceed
to the Uses in Arts and Sciences.

How much Posterity will be oblig'd to the Great Sir Isaac Newton and Doctor Flamstead for their
Mathematical Writings, is more easy to imagine than the Improvements which may be made from
thence; there's a great deal of Reason to believe, that if a future Age produces a Successor
to Sir Isaac, (at present I take it, there's none in the World) that not only the Longitude
at Sea will be discover'd, but the perpetual Motion, so many Ages sought after, found out.

How much are the Gentlemen of the Law oblig'd to my Lord Littleton's Institutes and Coke's
Commentaries thereupon? Writing in this Profession is esteem'd so Essential, that there's seldom
a Judge quits the Stage of Life, without a voluminous Performance, as a Legacy to the World,
and there's rarely a Term without some Production of the Press: The Numbers of these Writings
are very much augmented by the various Reports of Cases from Time to Time made; and these seem
to be entirely necessary by way of Precedent, as a discreet and cautious Justice will not take
upon him to determine a Cause of difficulty without the Authority of a Precedent.

And in the Practice of Physick, are not the present Professors infinitely obliged to the Discoveries
and Recipes of Aristotle, Galen, &c? How much the World is oblig'd to the Declamations of Tully,
Cicero, for Oratory; to the famous Writings of Milton for the Foundation of Divine Poetry;
Poetry in general is improv'd from the Writings of Chaucer, Spencer, and others; Dramatick
Entertainments perfected by Shakespear; our Language and Poetry refin'd by Dryden; the Passions
rais'd by Otway; the Inclination mov'd by Cowley; and the World diverted by Hudibras, (not
to mention the Perfections of Mr. Addison, and several others of this Age) I leave to the Determination
of every impartial Reader.

'Tis by Writing that Arts and Sciences are Cultivated, Navigation and Commerce (by which alone
Wealth is attain'd) to the most distant parts of the World Improv'd, Geography Compleated,
the Languages, Customs and Manners of Foreign Nations known; and there is scarce any one Mechanick
calling of Note or Signification, but Treatises have been written upon, to transmit the valuable
Observations of Ingenious Artificers to the latest Posterity.

There might be innumerable Instances given of the Advantages of Writings in all Cases, but
I shall satisfy my self with the particulars already advanc'd, and proceed to such Objections,
as I am apprehensive may be made relating to the Writings last mentioned. First, it may be
Objected that the numerous Writings tend more to confound the Reader, than to inform him; to
this I answer, that it is impossible there can be many Writings produced, but there must be
some valuable Informations communicated, easy to be Collected by a judicious Reader; tho' there
may be a great deal superfluous, and notwithstanding it is a considerable Charge to purchase
a useful Library, (the greatest Grievance) yet we had better be at that Expence, than to have
no Books publish'd, and consequently no Discoveries; the same Reason may be given where Books
in the Law, Physick, &c. are imperfect in some Part, and tend to the misleading Persons; for
of two Evils the old Maxim is, always chuse the least. The only Objection that I do not take
upon me to Defend, is, that against Lewd and obscene Poetry in general; (for sometimes the
very great Wit may make it excuseable) which in my Opinion will admit of but a slender Apology
in its Defence.

The use of Writing is Illustrated in the following Lines, which conclude my first Head of this
Essay.

  By ancient Writing Knowledge is convey'd,
  Of famous Arts the best Foundation laid;
  By these the Cause of Liberty remains,
  Are Nations free'd from Arbitrary Chains,
  From Errors still our Church is purified,
  The State maintained, with justice on its Side.

I now advance to my second Particular, Criticism.

The fatal Criticism or Damnation which the Writings of some Authors meet with thro' their Obscurity,
want of Friends and Interest in the World, &c. is very discouraging to the Productions of Literature:
It is the greatest difficulty immaginable, for an obscure Person to Establish a Reputation
in any sort of Writing; he's a long time in the same Condition with Sisyphus, rolling a heavy
Stone against an aspiring Mount which perpetually descends again; it must be to his benign
Stars, some lucky Subject suiting the Humour of the Times, more than the Beauty of his Performance,
which he will be oblig'd for his Rise: And in this Age Persons in general, are so Estrang'd
from bare Merit, that an Author destitute of Patronage will be equally Unsuccessful to a Person
without Interest at Court, (and you'll as rarely find the Friendship of an Orestes, as the
Chastity of Penelope) When a Man of Fortune has no other Task, than to give out a stupid Performance
to be of his own Composing, and he's immediately respected as a Celebrated Writer: And if a
Man has the good Fortune to hit the capricious Humour of the Age; after he has attained a Reputation
with the utmost Difficulty, he's sure to meet with the severest Treatment, from a herd of Malicious
and Implacable Scriblers.

The Criticks in this Age are arriv'd to that consummate Pitch of ill-nature, that they'll by
no means permit any Person the favour to Blunder but their mighty selves, and are in all respects,
except the Office of a Critick, in some measure ill Writers; I have known an unnatural Brother
of the Quill causless condemn Language in the Writings of other Persons, when his own has really
been the meanest; to Accuse others of Inconsistency with the utmost Vehemence, when his own
Works have not been without their Æra's, and to find fault with every Line in a Poem, when
he has been wholly at a loss to Correct, or at least not capable of Writing one single Page of it.

There are another sort of Criticks, which are equally ill-natur'd to these I have mention'd,
tho' in all other respects vastly inferior to them: They are such as no sooner hear of a Performance
compos'd by a Juvenile Author, or one not hitherto known in the way of Writing he has undertaken;
but immediately without reading a Line give it a Stamp of Damnation; (not considering that
the first Performance of an Author in any way of Writing done carefully, is oftentimes the
best) and if they had thoroughly perus'd it, they were no ways capable of Judging of either
the Sense, Language, or Beauty of any one Paragraph; and what is still worse, these ignorant
Slanderers of Writings frequently take what other Persons report for Authority, who know as
little, or perhaps are more Ignorant than themselves, so little Regard have they to the Reputation
of an Author.

And sometimes you'll find a pert Bookseller give himself the Airs of Judging a Performance
so far, as to Condemn the Correctness of what he knows nothing of these there's a pretender
to Authorship in the City, who Rules the young Fry of Biblioples about the Royal-Exchange.

But the Booksellers in general, (tho' they commonly Judge of the Goodness of Writings, by the
greatness of the Sale,) are Very sensible that their greatest Security in respect to the Performance
of any Work, is the Qualification of the Person that Composes it, the Confidence they can Repose
in him; his Capacity, Industry and Veracity; And the Author's Reputation is so far concern'd
in a Performance, which he owns that the Bookseller will sooner rely upon that, than his own
Judgment.

To descend still to a lower Order of Criticks, you'll find very few Coffee-Houses in this opulent
City without an illiterate Mechanick, Commenting upon the most material Occurrences, and Judging
the Actions of the greatest Councils in Europe, and rarely a Victualing House, but you meet
with a Tinker, a Cobler, or a Porter, Criticizing upon the Speeches of Majesty, or the Writings
of the most celebrated Men of the Age.

This is entirely owing to Party, and there is such a Contagion diffuses it self thro' the greatest
Part of the World at this Time, that it is impossible for a Man to acquire a universal Character
in Writing, as it is inconsistent for him to engage in Writings for both Parties at one and
the same Time, (whatever he may do alternately) without which such a Character is not attainable;
and these contending Parties carry Things to that Extremity, that they'll by no means allow
the least Merit in the most perfect Author, who adheres to the opposite Side; his Performances
will be generally unheeded, if not blasted, and frequently damn'd, as if, like Coelus, he were
capable of producing nothing but Monsters; he shall be in all Respects depress'd and debas'd,
at the same time an illiterate Scribler, an auspicious Ideot of their own (with whose Nonsense
they are never sated) shall be extoll'd to the Skies: Herein, if a Man has all the Qualifications
necessary in Poetry, as an Elegance of Style, an Excellency of Wit, and a Nobleness of Thought;
were Master of the most surprizing Turns, fine Similies, and of universal Learning, yet he
shall be despis'd by the Criticks, and rang'd amongst the damn'd Writers of the Times.

The Question first ask'd is, whether an Author is a Whig or a Tory; if he be a Whig, or that
Party which is in Power, his Praise is resounded, he's presently cried up for an excellent
Writer; if not, he's mark'd as a Scoundrel, a perpetual Gloom hangs over his Head; if he was
Master of the sublime Thoughts of Addison, the easy flowing Numbers of Pope, the fine Humour
of Garth, the beautiful Language of Rowe, the Perfection of Prior, the Dialogue of Congreve,
and the Pastoral of Phillips, he must nevertheless submit to a mean Character, if not expect
the Reputation of an Illitterate.

Writings for the Stage are of late so very much perverted by the Violence of Party, that the
finest Performance, without Scandal, cannot be supported; Shakespear and Ben Johnson, were
they, now living, would be wholly at a Loss in the Composure of a Play suitable to the Taste
of the Town; without a promiscuous heap of Scurrility to expose a Party, or, what is more detestable,
perhaps a particular Person, no Play will succeed, and the most execrable Language, in a Comedy,
produc'd at this Time, shall be more applauded than the most beautiful Turns in a Love for
Love: Such are the Hardships a Dramatick-Poet has to struggle with, that either Obscenity,
Party, or Scandal must be his Theme, and after he has performed his utmost in either of these
Ways, without a powerful Interest, he'll have more Difficulty in the bringing his Play upon
the Theatre than in the Writing, and sometimes never be able to accomplish it.

These are the Inconveniencies which Writers for the Stage labour under, besides 'tis observable,
that an obsequious prolifick Muse generally meets with a worse Reception than a petulant inanimate
Author; and when a Poet has finished his Labours, so that he has brought his Play upon the
Stage, the best Performance has oftentimes the worst Success, for which I need only instance
Mr. Congreve's Way of the World, a Comedy esteem'd by most Persons capable of judging, no way
inferior to any of his other Performances.

A Choice of Actors, next to Interest and Popularity, is the greatest Advantage to a new Play:
If a Stage-Poet has the Misfortune not to have a sufficient Influence over the Managers of
the Theatres to make a Nomination, his Performance must very much suffer; and if he cannot
entirely Command his Theatre, and Season for bringing it on, it will be perfectly slaughter'd;
and a certain Theatre has lately acquir'd the Name of a Slaughter-House, but whether more for
the Stupidity of its Poets than its Actors, I do not pretend to determine; but certain it is,
that Acting is the Life of all Dramatick-Performances. And tho' an indifferent Play may appear
tolerable, with good Acting, it is impossible a bad one can afford any Entertainment, when
perform'd by an incompleat Set of Comedians.

In respect to Writings in general, there is an unaccountable Caprice in abundance of Persons,
to Condemn or Commend a Performance meerly by a Name. The Names of some Writers will effectually
recommend, without making an Examination into the Merit of the Work; and the Names of other
Persons, equally qualified for Writing, and perhaps of greater Learning than the Former, shall
be sufficient to Damn it; and all this is owing either to some lucky Accident of writing apposite
to the Humour of the Town, (wherein an agreeable Season and a proper Subject are chiefly to
be regarded) or to Prejudice, but most commonly the Former.

It is a Misfortune to Authors both in Prose and Verse, who are reduc'd to a Necessity of constant
writing for a Subsistence, that the numerous Performances, publish'd by them, cannot possibly
be so correct as they might be, could more Time be afforded in the Composure. By this Means
there is sometimes just room for Criticism upon the best of their Productions, and these Gentlemen,
notwithstanding it be never so contrary to their Inclinations, are entirely oblig'd to prostrate
their Pens to the Town, as Ladies of Pleasure do their Bodies; tho' herein, in respect to Party,
it is to be observ'd, that a Bookseller and an Author may very well be allow'd occasionally
to be of either Party, or at least, that they should be permitted the Liberty of Writing and
Printing of either Side for Bread, free from Ignominy; and as getting Money is the chief Business
of the World, so these Measures cannot by any means be esteem'd Unjust or Disreputable, with
regard to the several Ways of accumulating Wealth, introduc'd in Exchange-Alley, and at the
other End of the Town.

It is a common Practice with some Persons in the World, either to prefix the Name of a Mecanas
in the Front of their Performances, or to obtain recommendatory Lines from some Person of excellency
in Writing, as a Protection against Criticism; and there is nothing more frequent than to see
a mean Performance (especially if it be done by a Man of Figure) with this Guard.

'Tis true, the worst Performances have the greatest occasion of these Ramparts, but then the
Person who takes upon him to Recommend, must have such an absolute Authority and Influence
over the generality of Mankind, as to silence all Objections, or else it will have a contrary
Turn, by promoting a Criticism as well upon the Author as upon himself; for which Reason it
is very hazardous for a Person in a middle Station (tho' he have never so great a Reputation
in Writing) to engage in the Recommendation of the Writings of others.

The severe Treatment which the brightest Men of the Age have met with from the Criticks, is
sufficient to deter all young Gentlemen from entring the Lists of Writing; and was not the
World in general more good-natur'd and favourable to youthful Performances than the Criticks,
there would be no such thing as a Succession of Writings; whereas, by that Means, and his present
Majesty's Encouragement, Literature is in a flourishing Condition, and Poetry seems to improve
more at this Time than it has done in any preceding Reign, except that of King Charles II.
when there was a Rochester, a Sidley, a Buckingham, &c. And (setting aside Party) what the
World may hope from a generous Encouragement of polite Writing, I take to be very conspicuous
from Mr. Pope's Translation of Homer, notwithstanding the malicious and violent Criticisms
of a certain Gentleman in its Disfavour.

In the religious Controversy of late depending, Criticisms have been carried to that height,
that some Persons have pretended to fix false Grammer on one of the most celebrated Writers
perhaps at this Time in Europe, but how justly, I leave to the Determination of those who have
perused the Bishop's incomparable Answer; but admitting his Lordship had permitted an irregularity
of Grammer to pass unobser'd [typo for "unobserv'd"?], he is not the first of his Sacred Character
that has done it, and small Errors of this kind are easily looked over, where the Nominative
Case is at a distance from the Verb, or a Performance is done in haste, the Case of the Bishop
against so many powerful Adversaries. Besides, it is apparent and well known, that a certain
Person [Mr. Lessey, now with the Chevalier.] in the World, who has a very great Reputation
in Writing, never regards the strict Rules of Grammer in any of his Performances.

It is a Satisfaction to Authors of tender Date, to see their Superiors thus roughly handled
by the Criticks; a young Writer in Divinity will not think his Case desperate, when the shining
Bangor has met with such malevolent Treatment; neither must a youthful Poet be uneasy at a
severe Criticism, when the Great Mr. Addison, Rowe and Pope have been treated with the utmost
Scurrility.

These Men of Eminence sitting easy with a load of Calumny, is a sufficient Consolation to Inferiors
under the most despicable Usage, and there is this satisfactory Reflection, that perhaps the
most perfect Work that ever was compos'd, if not so entirely correct, but there may be some
room for Criticism by a Man of consummate Learning; for there is nothing more common than to
find a Man, (if not wholly blind) over opiniated in respect to his own Performances, and too
exact in a Scrutiny into the Writings of others.

The ill Nature attending Criticism I take to be greater now than in any Age past; a Man's Defects
in Writing shall not only be expos'd, but all the personal Infamy heap'd upon him that is possible;
his Descent and Education shall be scandaliz'd, (as if a fine Performance was the worse for
the Author's Parentage) his good Name villified, a History of the Transactions of his whole
Life, and oftentimes a great deal more, shall be written, as if the were a Candidate setting
up in a Burough for Member of Parliament, not an airy[?] or loose Action shall be omitted,
and neither the Sacred Gown, nor the greatest Dignity shall be exempted; but there is this
Consideration which sways the sensible part of Mankind, viz. a Man of Excellency in Writing
his being generally a Person of more Vivacity than the common Herd, and consequently the more
extraordinary Actions in him are allowable; yet, nevertheless, I think it consistent with Prudence
for an Author, when he has the good fortune to compose a Piece, which he's assur'd will occasion
Envy and Criticism, to write his own Life at the same Time with it, tho' it be a little extravagant
and the method is unusual, to prevent an ill-natur'd doing thereof by the Hand of another Person.

According to the old Maxim, Get a Reputation, and lye a Bed, not to mention how many lye a
Bed before they can attain it, according to the humorous Turn of the late ingenious Mr. Farqubar;
but there's at this Time a greater necessity for a Man to be wakeful, when he has acquir'd
a Reputation, than at any Time before; he'll find abundantly more difficulty attend the Securing
than the Attaining of the greatest Reputation; he'll meet with Envy from every Quarter; Malice
will pursue him in all his undertakings, and if he makes any manner of Defence, he cannot commence
it too soon, tho' it is not always prudential to shew an open Resentment, even to the utmost
ill Treatment. 

He held them on by one hand while he sang the rest of his piece, and when he left the stage
the audience heartlessly whooped for him to come back.

"'The Mikado'is not funny or instructive as a general thing, but last night it was accidently facetious.
It has too much singing and not enough vocal music about it.

There is also an overplus of conversation through the thing that seems like talking at a mark
for$ 2 a week. It may be owing to my simple ways, but'The Mikado'is
too rich for my blood."

We
live well here at the Fifth Avenue. The man that owns the place puts two silver forks and a clean
tablecloth on my table every day, and the young fellows that pass the grub around are so well dressed
that it seems sassy and presumptions for me to bother them by asking them to bring me stuff
when I'd just as soon go and get it myself and nothing else in the
world to do.

  
  "I told the waiter at my table yesterday that when he got time I wished
he would come up to my room and we could have a game of old sledge.

He is a nice young man, and puts himself out a good deal to make
me comfortable."

I found something yesterday at the table that bothered me. It was a new kind of a silver dingus,
with two handles to it, for getting a lump of sugar into your tea. I saw right away that it was
for that, but when I took the two handles in my hand like a nut cracker
and tried to scoop up a lump of sugar with it I felt embarrassed.

Several people who were total strangers to me smiled.

"After dinner the waiter brought me a little pink-glass bowl of lemonade and a clean wipe to dry my
mouth with, I reckon, after I drank the lemonade. I do not pine for lemonade much, anyhow,
but this was specially poor. It was just plain water, with a lemon
rind and no sugar into it."

One
rural rooster from Pittsburg showed his contempt for the blamed stuff by washing his hands
in it. I may be rough and uncouth in my style, but I hope I will never lower myself like that
in company. "Eyes!

I watch him, with his Christmas sled; He hitches on behind A passing
sleigh, with glad hooray, And whistles down the wind; He hears the
horses champ their bits, And bells that jingle-jingle-- You Woolly
Cap! you Scarlet Mitts!

You miniature" Kriss Kringle!

"I almost catch your secret joy-- Your chucklings of delight, The while you whizz where glory is
Eternally in sight! With you I catch my breath, as swift Your jaunty sled goes gliding O'er glassy
track and shallow drift, As I behind were riding!

He winks at twinklings of the frost. And on his airy race, Its tingles beat to redder heat The rapture
of his face:-- The colder, keener is the air, The less he cares a feather. But, there! he's gone!
and I gaze on The wintriest of weather!

Ah, boy! still speeding o'er the track Where none returns again, To Sigh for you, or cry for
you, Or die for you were vain.-- And so, speed on! the while I pray
All nipping frosts forsake you-- Ride still ahead of grief, but may
All glad things overtake you!

Her Tired Hands On board a western train the other day I held in
my bosom for over seventy-five miles the elbow of a large man whose
name I do not know.

He was not a railroad hog or I would have resented it. He was built wide and he couldn't help it,
so I forgave him. He had a large, gentle, kindly eye, and when he desired to spit, he went
to the car door, opened it and decorated the entire outside of the
train, forgetting that our speed would help to give scope to his
remarks.

Naturally as he sat there by my side, holding on tightly to his ticket and evidently afraid that
the conductor would forget to come and get it, I began to figure out in my mind what might be
his business.

He had pounded one thumb so that the nail was black where the blood had
settled under it. This might happen to a shoemaker, a carpenter, a blacksmith
or most anyone else. So it didn't help me out much, though it looked
to me as though it might have been done by trying to drive a fence-nail
through a leather hinge with the back of an axe, and nobody but a
farmer would try to do that. Following up the clue, I discovered that
he had milked on his boots and then I knew I was right. The man who
milks before daylight, in a dark barn, when the thermometer is down
to 28 degrees below and who hits his boot and misses the pail, by
reason of the cold and the uncertain light and the prudishness of the cow,
is a marked man. He cannot conceal the fact that he is a farmer unless
he removes that badge. So I started out on that theory and remarked that
this would pass for a pretty hard winter on stock. For
writing Prose a Man ought to have a tollerable Foundation of Learning, at least to be Master
of the Latin Tongue, to be a good Historian, and to have a perfect Knowledge of the World;
and besides these Qualifications, in Poetry as I have before observ'd, a Writer should be Master
of the most refin'd and beautiful Language, surprizing Turns, fine adapted Similes, a sublimity
of Thought, and to be a Person of universal Learning: Though I have often observ'd, both in
Prose and Verse, that some Persons of strong Genius, well acquainted with the World, and but
of little Learning, have made a better Figure in some kinds of Writings, than Persons of the
most consummate Literature, not bless'd with natural Genius, and a Knowledge of Mankind.

The preference of Genius to Learning, is sufficiently Demonstrated in the Writings of the Author
of the True born English Man; (a Poem that has Sold beyond the best Performance of any Ancient
or Modern Poet of the greatest Excellency, and perhaps beyond any Poetry ever Printed in the
English Language) This Author is Characteriz'd as a Person of little Learning, but of prodigious
Natural Parts; and the immortal Shakespear had but a small share of Literature: It is likewise
worthy Observation, that some of our most entertaining Comedies, Novels and Romances have been
Written by the fair Sex, who cannot be suppos'd to have Learning in any Degree equal to Gentlemen
of a University Education. And in North Britain where Literature shines amongst the Persons
of middle Station, an Ounce of Natural Parts, (speaking in a common way of Comparison) is Esteem'd
of greater Value, than a Pound of Learning.

A Person of Learning without Genius and Knowledge of the World, is like an Architect's Assistant,
whose only Business is to Draw the Draught or Model of a Pile of Building; he's at a loss in
the Materials necessary for compleating the Structure, tho' he can Judge of its Beauty when
Perfected; and may be compared to a Man that has the theory in any Art or Science, but wants
the Practice.

And a meer Scholar is the most unacceptable Companion upon Earth: He is Rude in his Manners,
Unpolish'd in his Literature, and generally Ill-Natur'd to the last Degree; he's Company for
a very few Persons, and Pleasing to None; his Pride exalts him in Self-Opinion beyond all Mankind:
And some of the sucking Tribe of Levi, think the Gown and Cassock alone, Merit a Respect due
to the greatest Personages, and that the broad Hat with the Rose should be Ador'd, tho' it
covers a thick and brainless Skull.

But these are a few only; there are great Numbers of the Clergy who deserve the utmost Respect,
and are justly paid more than they desire; and no Person can have a greater Regard for that
sacred Body than my self, as I was not only intended for a Clergyman, but have several Relations
now in being of that venerable Order; Tho' I am oblig'd to take Notice, that the Authors of
the Gown in general, treat the World with greater Insolence and Incharity, than any Lay-Persons
whatsoever.

There's nothing more frequent, than to find the Writings of many of our Modern Divines, not
only Stiff and Harsh, but full of Rancour, and to find an easy Propensity and Complaisance
in the Writings of the Laity; a Gentleman without the Gown commonly Writes with a genteel Respect
to the World, abundance of good Temper and a condescension Endearing; when a brawny Priest,
shall shew a great deal of Ill-nature, give indecent Reflections, and affrontive Language,
and oftentimes be Dogmatical in all his Performances.

Whether this be owing more to Pride, than a want of an Easy, Free, and polite Conversation,
I do not take upon me to Determine; but I believe it must be generally Imputed to the Former,
as it cannot be suppos'd, that either of the Universities, are at any time without a polite
Converse; tho' I take leave to observe, that there is a great deal of difference between a
finish'd Oxonian, and a sprightly Senator.

This is Demonstrated in the Speeches from Time to Time, made in the Senate and the Synod; the
Stile and Composure of the one, is no way to be compar'd to the other, tho' the Sense be equally
strong; there's an Elegancy and Beauty of Expression in the Former, not to be met with in the
Latter, Oratory no where to be exceeded, and an Affluence of Words not to be met with in any
other Speeches whatsoever; and I believe it must be generally allow'd that there is a very
great difference in the common Conversation, (particularly in point of Manners) of the Members
of those August Assemblies.

A good Conversation is the greatest Advantage an Author can possibly Enjoy, by a variety of
Converse, a Man is furnish'd with a perpetual Variety of Hints, and may acquire a greater Knowledge
on some Subjects in the space of a few Minutes, than he can attain by Study, in a Succession
of Weeks, (tho' I must allow Study to be the only Foundation for Writing) 'twas owing to a
good Conversation, that those Entertaining Papers the Tatlers were publish'd by Sir Richard
Steel, the Examiner carried on by Mr. Oldsworth; and 'tis impossible a perfect good Comedy
can be written by any Person, without a constant Resort to the best Conversation, whereby alone
a Man will be Master of the best Thoughts.

In short, Conversation is the Aliment of the Genius, the Life of all airy Performances, as
Learning is the Soul; the various Humours of Mankind, upon all Occasions, afford the most agreeable
Subjects for all sorts of Writings, and I look upon any Performance, tho' done by a Person
celebrated for Writing, without the use of Conversation, in some measure incompleat.

If an Author be enclin'd to write for Reformation of Manners, let him repair to St. Pauls or
Westminster-Abbey, and observe the indecent Behaviour of multitudes of Persons, who make those
Sacred Places Assignations of Vice; if you are enclin'd to lash the Follies and Vanities of
the fair Sex, retire to the Tea Table and the Theatre; if your Business be to compose a Sermon,
or you are engag'd in Theological Studies, resort to Child's Coffee-House in St. Paul's Church-Yard;
if you are desirous to depaint the Cheat and the Trickster, I recommend ye to the Royal-Exchange
and the Court End of the Town; and if you would write a Poem in imitation of Rochester, you
need only go to the Hundreds of Drury, and you'll be sufficiently furnish'd with laudable Themes.

But Converse at home falls infinitely short of Conversation abroad, and the Advantages attending
Travelling are so very great, that they are not to be express'd; this finishes Education in
the most effectual manner, and enables a Man to speak and write on all Occasions with a Grace
and Perfection, no other way to be attain'd. The Travels of a young Gentleman have not only
the effect of transplation of Vegetables, in respect to the encrease of Stature, but also the
Consequence of the most beautiful Pruning. How much the Gentlemen of Scotland owe their Capacities
to Travelling, is very obvious, there being no Person of Quality in that Kingdom but expends
the greatest part of his Fortune in other Countries, to reap the Benefit of it in personal
Accomplishments; and a greater Commendation than this to the Scots is, the bestowing the best
of Literature upon all manner of Youth educated amongst them.

Whilst the Men of Quality here very often neglect giving their Children the common and necessary
Learning, and too frequently entrust their Education with lazy, ignorant, and incogitant Tutors,
not to mention the Supineness of Schoolmasters in general throughout England; the North-Britains
labour in this Particular indefatigably, as they are very sensible that Learning is the greatest
Honour of their Country, and the ancient Britains come so near the Scots, that amongst the
common Persons, in some Parts of Wales, you may meet with a Ploughman that speaks tollerable
Latin, and a Mason, like the famous Ben Johnson, with his Horace and a Trowel.

The want of a generous Education is an irretrieveable Misfortune, and the Negligence of an
Inspector of the Literature of Youth ought to be unpardonable; how many Persons of Distinction
have curs'd their aged Parents for not bestowing on them a liberal Education? And how many
of the Commonalty have regretted the mispending of the precious Time of Youth? A Man arriv'd
to Maturity has the Mortification of observing an Inferior in Circumstances superior in Literature,
and wants the Satisfaction of giving a tollerable Reason for any Thing he says or does, or
in any respect to judge of the Excellency of others; and, in my Opinion, a generous Education,
with a bare Subsistence only, is to be preferr'd to the largest Patrimony, and a want of Learning.

Without Education it is impossible to Write or Read any Thing distinctly; without a frequent
turning of the Dictionary, no Person can be compleat in the English Language, neither can he
give Words their proper Accent and Pronunciation, or be any ways Master of Elocution; and a
Man without Learning, though he appears tollerable in Conversation, (which I have known some
Persons do by a constant enjoyment of good Company, and a strength of Memory) is like an Empirick,
that takes Things upon trust: And whenever he comes to exercise the Pen, that the Subject is
uncommon, and Study is requir'd, you'll find him oftentimes not capable of writing one single
Line of Senfe, and scarcely one Word of English. And, on the other Hand, I have known some
Persons who could talk Latin very fluently, who have us'd Phrases and Sentences perpetually
in that Language, in Conversation, vulgar and deficient in the Mother-Tongue, and who have
written most egregious Nonsense; from whence it is evident, that Writing is the only Test of
Literature.

I have a little deviated from my Subject, in pursuing the Rules and Advantages of Education,
which I take to be of that universal good Tendency, that they are acceptable in any Performance
whatsoever: I shall offer nothing farther, but conclude this Essay with the following Particulars;
that besides the Qualifications already mention'd, it is as necessary for a fine Writer to
be endued with Modesty as for a beautiful Lady; that good Sense is of equal Consequence to
an Author, as a good Soil for the Culture of the most noble Plants; that a Person writing a
great deal on various Subjects, should be as cautious in owning all his Performances, as in
revealing the Secrets of his most intimate Friend; and in respect to those Gentlemen, who have
made no scruple to prostitute their Names, the following Similie may be judg'd well adapted:

  As Musick soft, by constant use is forc'd
  Grows harsh, and cloys, becomes at length the worst,
  The Harmony amidst Confusion lost:
  So finest Pens, employ'd in Writing still
  Lose Strength and Beauty as the Folio's fill.

