One more passage must be quoted, the force of which cannot well be missed.  In the sixth chapter
of the Book of the Revelation, S. John describes the vision which he saw at the opening of
the fifth seal. {28}  Plainly these souls were not in heaven, for they bemoaned the long delay,
and were bidden to wait for awhile until some great fulfilment.  Where then could they be,
if not on earth, nor yet in heaven?  They must have been in the Middle State between the two,
these martyred souls, in Paradise.  But they are not spoken of as in Paradise, or in Abraham's
bosom, but as "under the Altar."  Where was this?  The Jews spoke of departed souls not only
as in Paradise, and in Abraham's bosom, but also as "under the throne of Glory."  By all these
expressions they meant the same thing.  S. John, however, uses a different expression in describing
the Intermediate State, yet one so similar as to lead us to think that in the change he substitutes
a Christian formula for the Jewish, giving it a Christian shape.  As "the throne of Glory"
was associated with the Presence of GOD in the mind of a devout Jew, so the Altar would be
as naturally associated with the Presence of GOD in the mind of a devout Christian. What, therefore,
the "Throne of GOD" was to the Jew, that "the Altar of GOD" would be to a Christian.  For the
Altar was to Christian thought the Throne of GOD.  There, at the Christian Altar was commemorated
the one great sacrifice to which all former sacrifices had pointed, and in which they were
all fulfilled.  There the communion of Saints was, as in no other way on earth, realized. 
There, as by one simultaneous vibration thrilling through the saintly dead, and the living
communicants, the spiritual bond unites together in one unbroken living Communion, those of
the Church expectant who are departed in the true faith of Christ's Holy Name, and those of
us who are still striving in the Church militant on earth to perfect our probation.  These
souls "under the Altar" were still waiting, and their waiting wearied them.  "How long?" they
cried.  They were not in the flesh, their bodies had been slain.  They were absent from the
body and present with the Lord, with Christ, as the crucified thief is still with Christ, in
Paradise.

The consummation for them is yet to come.  They are waiting for it.  It is postponed.  GOD'S
work on earth is yet uncompleted.  The number of the elect is not yet made up.  The Second
Coming of Christ is yet delayed. All things are not yet ready.  A little while longer must
they wait, that they without us may not be made perfect.

III.

   "To be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life
   and peace."--ROM. VIII. 6.

So far we have examined the witness which the Bible affords in support of the truth that there
is such a sphere as the Intermediate State, in which the spirit dwells alone, apart from the
body, awaiting the Day of Judgment.  We have now to see what can be known as to the condition
of the spirit in that disembodied state.  It is one thing to be assured on good grounds that
there is such a life, and quite another thing to be assured what sort of life it is.  Can we
fully understand what is meant by the life of the spiritual part of our being when it is separated
from the body?  We cannot.  We cannot understand that of which we have had no experience. 
In speaking, therefore, of the disembodied spirit, we are speaking of that which we cannot
explain.  Yet it does not in consequence follow that it is impossible to believe it to be.
For we are bound in reason to be assured of many things of which we can form no conception.
Reason compels us to be assured of the reality of space, of eternity, of the creation of the
universe out of nothing, and, perhaps we may add, of the being of GOD; the being of GOD, I
mean, considered apart from His nature and attributes.  Yet we cannot form any intelligent
conception of these realities.  We cannot shape to our apprehension the faintest rational conception
of the Personality of GOD, of His Omniscience, of His Omnipresence.  Yet we are able, and indeed
are forced to believe, as Christians, in these attributes of His Nature, although we cannot
comprehend them.

In the same sense, we can be reasonably sure that the spirit can still live after it has left
the body, even though we are unable to form to our minds any clear conception of the existence
of the disembodied spirit.  We can do more.  On the assumption of the existence of the disembodied
spirit, we are able, to some extent also, to reason upon the laws and limits of that separate
and secluded life.

We are, no doubt, in so doing, dealing with a profoundly mysterious subject.  But it does not
therefore follow that we are thereby really intruding into things which ought not to be enquired
into.  For the questions raised in the search concern us very closely; and, moreover, it is
a matter about which GOD has made a revelation.  And to know more about it than many people
even care to know is a safeguard against many an unwholesome fear, against many a mischievous
deceit.

On the very threshold of this enquiry we are confronted with this question: "Is the soul the
same thing as the spirit?  If not, what is the soul, and what is the spirit?" {34b}  It is
thus that we understand the contrast which S. Paul enforces between things of the spirit and
things of the soul.  "The natural man,"--i.e., the psychical man, the man who yields to the
sway of the soul,--"receiveth not the things of the spirit of GOD." {34c}  And again, speaking
of the resurrection, he writes: "It is sown a natural body,"--i.e., literally a psychical body,
a body which is subject to the sway of the soul,--"it is raised a spiritual body,"--i.e., a
body subject to the sway of the spirit.  "There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual
body." {35a}  When again S. James says: "This wisdom . . . is earthly, sensual, devilish,"--the
word translated "sensual" is the same word "psychical," i.e., subject to the sway of the soul.
{35b}  S. Jude speaks of those who are "sensual," i.e., psychical, "not having the spirit."
{35c}  Enough has been said to show that, according to the Bible, the soul is the seat of the
senses, the desires, the will, the reasoning and intellectual faculties, the thoughts of the
mind.  What then is the spirit in man? {35d}  This breath of GOD could be nothing less than
the spirit, which came from GOD Himself.  It is that higher endowment by which man is a spiritual
being, and therefore has an affinity to GOD.  It is that which makes him GOD-like, even by
nature, at least by his nature as it was before the fall.  But even the fall did not utterly
dissolve that nature; man still remained a spiritual being, although the spiritual part of
him was subject to the sway of the animal in him, and to the senses of the lower nature.  Until
that creative act of GOD, man's body and soul were scarcely higher in the order and rank of
being than the body and soul of the brute.  It was the gift of the divine spirit which caused
man's soul truly to live, so that he became then "a living soul."  Herein, henceforth, the
soul of man differs from the soul of the lower creature.  In man the soul is in contact with
the spirit.  The beast shares with man the possession of an animal soul.  It is the prerogative
of man to be endowed also with spirit.  By the spirit, man is capable of apprehending GOD,
can commune with GOD, can long for Him.  Herein lies his capacity for religion.  His soul is
incorporeal no less than his spirit.  It is, as it were, midway between the body and the spirit.
It touches the body on the one side, on the other side it touches the spirit.  The desires
and the thoughts of the soul may become enslaved by the body, or they may become the servants
of the spirit.  The soul is the prize, for the mastery of which the spirit strives, and the
flesh or body strives.  The spirit may gain the soul, or the flesh may gain the soul.  If the
spirit loses the soul, it is a loss fatal and irreparable.  The soul is drawn now this way
by the baser longings of the flesh, now that way by the nobler appeals of the spirit.  It is
the "debateable ground" {37} on which the real battle of life is fought.  "The flesh lusteth
against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh."  The gaining of the soul is the gaining
of the whole man.  The losing of the soul is the losing of the whole man.  Those have degraded
and brutalized their life whose human spirit has yielded up its supremacy, whose soul has been
swept along in captivity by the bodily desires.  For as in some the spirit shapes the whole
soul, so in others the soul, enslaved by the flesh, shapes the spirit.

Death at length steps in, and tears asunder the flesh from the incorporeal part of us; and
soul and spirit, still united, pass together to the life which awaits them in the world unseen.

IV.

   "And when he had said this he fell asleep."

   --ACTS VII. 60.

At death, as we have seen, the spirit and the soul are separated from the body, and, still
united together, are launched into the unseen world.  For though the soul is not the spirit,
these two form the incorporeal parts of our compound nature, are the two immaterial elements
of that trinity of life,--body, soul, spirit, which are united to make one human being. They
both survive death.  For death is the separation of the soul from the body, not of the soul
from the spirit.  But it must be remembered that the spirit, when at death it is, in company
with the soul, withdrawn from the body, passes into the Intermediate State, shaped and stamped
with the impress which the life on earth has fastened upon it.  The spirit enters the new life,
either enslaved, disfigured, degraded, dishonoured by the sensual soul, or else strong, free,
true, purified in its victory over the flesh.  It carries with it, in short, the character
which in life it has acquired.

It may be well to fall into the usage of ordinary speech, and speak of that which survives
death as the soul, so long as we keep in mind what is really meant, viz., that it is the soul
united with the spirit which survives death.

When, then, we say that the disembodied soul enters the Intermediate Life, we are bound to
consider in what condition it enters it.  For people sometimes argue thus: "Yes! I grant that
there will be an interval or waiting time between death and the Day of Judgment.  But then,
during that time, is not the soul asleep?  Surely the dying are said to fall asleep.  Then,
if asleep, they are unconscious, and to the unconscious soul the Intermediate State will seem
to last but for an instant, and will no sooner be entered upon than it will be practically
at an end.  For complete insensibility to the passing and movement of time is one of the effects
of complete unconsciousness.  And, in truth, is it not the case that the Bible over and over
again speaks of death as a state of sleep or taking rest? {41a}  Thus the Intermediate State
is in fact a blank.  The eyes close in death, and they remain closed till they open to gaze
upon the glories of the Resurrection, and the terrors of the judgment seat of Christ.  Does
not our own Prayer Book sanction this view in her Service for the Burial of the Dead? {41b}
And do we not in common language ourselves express the same belief when we give to the resting
place of the bodies of the dead the name of 'cemetery,' or sleeping place?"

The answer to all this is that the language which represents death as a profound slumber is
language applicable enough to describe what befalls the body, but is quite inapplicable when
it is used of the soul.  Sleep is distinctly a physical and corporeal function.  The soul cannot
be liable to or affected by corporeal influences when it is separated from the body.  The soul
cannot sleep.  It is the body, in the hushed stillness of the chamber of death, which seems,
now that the last struggle is over, and the spasm of dying leaves it motionless, to be sleeping.
But even in life, while the body sleeps, the soul is awake.  It is often, during the sleep
of the body, even more active than during the waking hours.  In dreams the soul is busy with
its fancies.  Thoughts flit this way and that through the mind of the sleeper.  Indeed, the
body is more often a hindrance rather than a help to the activities of thought.  To lose all
consciousness of the existence of the body, to be as if the body for the time were not,--this
is to set the mind thinking in freedom unrestrained.  For the body and the conscious sensation
of the presence of the body seem to serve to drag down and encumber the energy of thought.
A sound through the ear, a sight presented to the eye, a touch, an ache,--these break off sustained
thinking.  No wonder, when the body sleeps profoundly, the soul is often then most active.
And will not this be so when the profoundest sleep of all falls upon the body?

It is clear that the disembodied soul, if we may again go back to the Bible, is not by our
Lord regarded as in a state of lethargy and dull unconsciousness.  "To-day," said He, "shalt
thou be with Me in Paradise." If this promise was meant to be a blessing and a solace it was
meant to be consciously felt as a blessing and a solace.  How else could the thief have been
in any true sense with Christ?  S. Paul said, "For me to live is Christ, to die is gain." {43}
Gain!  Wherein could it be a gain to him to die, if to die was to exchange that eager, active
vitality, so full of welcome pain and happy suffering, so full of a service, whose fruits were
rich in blessing,--to exchange all this for dull heaviness and blank oblivion?

In the narrative of the rich man and Lazarus, which, as we saw, describes the Intermediate
State, the rich man is said to have "lifted up his eyes being in torments."  So, then, his
pain was felt.  He was conscious; he reflected; he remembered; he spoke.  Once more, in a remarkable
passage in the First Epistle of S. Peter, to which, on a future occasion, I shall again refer,
our Lord is spoken of as "having been put to death in the flesh, but quickened," i.e., made
alive, "in spirit" {44}; words which, whatever the context may mean, can only have the force
of bringing the effect of death in its relation to Christ's human body into sharp contrast
with its effect in relation to His human spirit.  In respect of His human body He was put to
death; but in respect of His human spirit He was quickened or lived, lived still, in Paradise,
though His body was dead.  I need not, I think, refer to other passages.  It is abundantly
clear, both from the necessity of the thing, and from the obvious testimony of the Bible, that
the soul still lives, still is awake, still is conscious.

What, then, follows from the soul's consciousness in and through the passage of death?  Obviously
this,--that the life of the soul goes on, and is therefore the life of the same soul, sustained
without break or interruption, after death, by an unsuspended continuity of the consciousness
of personal identity.  For of what is the soul still conscious?  Of itself.  The life therefore
of the soul after death is one with the life of the soul before death.  The same soul lives
on.  The only change to it is the absence of the body, which has been withdrawn from it, and
is laid in the ground, and dissolves into dust.  And this continuous consciousness of identity
means that the soul's character is preserved unchanged and unaffected by the shock of the separation.
For a character it had been contracting during its sojourn in the body, a character of its
own.  The spiritualized soul before death is a spiritualized soul after death.  The animalized
soul before death remains after death an animalized soul.  The righteous is righteous still.
The holy, the pure, the faithful, the devout, the true, are true, and devout, and faithful,
and pure, and holy still.  The wicked and tainted soul is still wicked and tainted when it
enters the unseen, and begins its life in the Intermediate State.  It is on the other side
what it was on this side.  Death,--the crisis and shock of death,--makes no change, no other
change than this, that it strips off the outer clothing which enveloped the soul.  It leaves
the soul the same, no better, no worse.  This is what is implied in the personal identity of
the soul.  It means the continuity of consciousness, and therefore continuity of character.

Do we cling to some vague and fanciful expectation that the mere act of dying, so to call it,
will itself work a great change upon the soul, will blot out our sins, will clear away our
imperfections, will in an instant heal the wounds and scars, which evil habits, long inured
in us, have wrought upon the soul?  It will do nothing of the sort.  We shall be no better,
no holier on the other side than we were on this, no more fitted for heaven than when we died.
If this be so,--and, so far as we can see, it must be so,--how much does it behove us to fear
greatly the peril we incur by a careless and GOD-forgetting life!  "Israel doth not know,"
said the prophet, "My people doth not consider." {47}  That was the pity of it.  It was the
thoughtlessness, and the ignorance which came of it, that ruined the nation.

Oh! that in life we would look things in the face more steadily!  Would
that we were ready to take heed how surely we are, day by day, shaping
and moulding our character for good or for evil, a character which no
shock of dissolution will affect, which will be ours when the crisis
comes to end our probation here, and to usher us, as we are and have
become, into that unseen life beyond! I. 6
   (R.V.)

The Intermediate Life is not a state of sleep, but a waiting time.  But is it a time of mere
waiting, and of unemployed quiescence?  This would be no better than sleep.  There must be
a reason for the waiting.  And what other reason can there be than that, during it, there is
something to be done which can only be done then?  S. Paul speaks, in the text, of work which
he is confident will be carried on till it is brought to completion on the Day of Judgment.
What is this work?  We have seen that the Scriptural conception of the happiness of heaven
is that it consists in the sight of GOD, the Beatific Vision.  But there can enter the heavenly
city nothing that defileth, nothing imperfect.  It is the pure in heart who shall see GOD.
Isaiah dare hardly approach the vision of GOD'S glory on earth, because he felt himself to
be a man of unclean lips.  The very heavens, the stars themselves, are not clean in GOD'S sight.
And at death, who is pure?  Who is free from stain?  Who is perfect, that he should be fit
to look upon GOD?  Then, if no one that is imperfect can enter heaven, and none are perfect
at death, can we not see what the work is that has to be done between death and the Resurrection?
It is this work of purification, that the soul may be fitted for the vision of GOD in heaven.
And this is what S. Paul is speaking of in the text.  The work begun in life, under the conditions
of earth's life, shall not stop at death, but, under new conditions, shall be carried on to
perfection until the day of Jesus Christ.

So far, then, we may say that we are treading on sure ground.  But when we go on to ask how
shall this work and process of purification be effected, and what is the nature and method
of it, we are approaching a stage in our enquiry about which, it may be thought, nothing but
conjecture remains, because nothing has been revealed.  But let us see what light may be thrown
upon this question.  And, that we may narrow our enquiry within manageable limits, let us confine
our attention for the present to the condition of those of whom it may with truth and reason
be said that they died in the favour and grace of GOD, died in good hope of salvation, surely
trusting that their sins had been forgiven through the blood of Jesus Christ, and that, however
imperfect and blemished with sin their lives had been, there was an assured forgiveness for
them and a good hope of eternal mercy.  We will not define the exact limits of this reasonable
hope, nor attempt to show who are within or beyond those limits.  We will only, in general
terms, speak of those who have entered upon the Intermediate Life in a condition such as would
make them capable of perfect purification.  Certainly it is impossible for any of us ever to
say of any one absolutely that he is incapable of such progressive purification.  It is not
possible, in Christian charity, to pronounce sentence upon any.  And it may be, and we may
indeed hope, that a vast number, a much larger proportion than many now imagine, will prove
on their entrance into the Intermediate Life to be capable of such progress of effective purification
as may fit them, each according to his measure, for the final salvation for which he may be
qualified in that home where "there are many mansions."

When then does this purification begin?  Does it begin with dying?  That has been already disproved.
But so prevalent is the popular belief that dying has a kind of cleansing power in itself,
that it is well to touch upon it once more.  What is dying?  It is simply the parting of the
soul from the body.  The soul, up to the moment of death, dwells in the body. At death, in
a moment it ceases to dwell in the body.  But have not the pain, it may be asked, and the very
agony of dying a chastening and purifying force, serving in themselves to crown repentance,
and to achieve, in the instant, the complete cleansing of the soul?  Why should it be so? 
The pains which precede death are distinct from dying, from what we may call the act of dying.
The act of dying is instantaneous.  It is the moment, the crisis at which the soul takes its
flight.  The pains and agony which accompany the process leading up to death are not the pains
and agony of dying at all.  They are felt while the sick man is still living.  They belong
to his life, not to his death.  At the moment of dying the sufferings are probably over.  The
body has just felt its last throb of sensible anguish, and, in the crisis of the soul's departure,
is incapable of feeling pain, and therefore is incapable of the discipline of pain.  And it
is the discipline of pain alone that has any cleansing power.  And the discipline of pain went
on in life up to the moment, if it be so, of the dying, and then ceased.  But it belonged,
as the pain belonged, to the life, and not to the death.  During the life, at many times in
the life past, the wholesome discipline of pain may or may not have been working a salutary
change in the character, up to the very moment, perhaps, of death.  But it ceased, as the pain
ceased, at death.

This then we conclude, that the act of dying in itself, apart from the pain which may have
preceded it, can have no moral effect, or work any moral change.  Moral change, that is to
say change of character, can only go on in life.  Dying is a physical operation, not a moral
act.  At death the possibility of change of character has stopped, so far as this life can
be the sphere of it.  Life, not death, may be accompanied by cleansing, life on this side of
death, and life on the other side of death, but not death, which is between, the mere transition
from life to life, from one mode of life to another.

The soul, therefore, after death begins just where it left off, just as life left it, no better,
no worse.  It passes into the unseen world, pardoned, it may be, by GOD'S mercy, but yet no
other than it was before it left the body.  Even GOD'S pardon does not change the character,
nor yet remove the tendency to sin.  That still remains, alas! even in the penitent.  The consequences
of our acts follow upon our acts, and form our character.  As there is uniformity in the law
of cause and effect in the realm of nature, so, in morals, is it the case with what we do.
Let a man yield to a temptation:--is he as strong against that temptation after he has yielded
to it as he would have been if he had not yielded to it?  We know that he is not.  We know,
by our own experience, that it needs a far greater and more strenuous effort to withstand the
same temptation after previous yielding, than it did before.  A man may repent and be pardoned,
but he is what his sin has made him, weak and frail and prone to sin again.  GOD'S pardon has
cancelled his guilt, but it has not removed his tendency, nor the moral consequences, which
sin has wrought upon his character.

This then is what is meant when it is said that the soul, which has received the gracious pardon
of GOD before it left the body, is still, when it is launched into the Intermediate Life, clouded
and disfigured with the stains and imperfections which it had contracted in this life. But
GOD, Who has begun the good work of cleansing in this life, will carry it on in the life unseen,
until the soul be made perfect in the day of Jesus Christ.

Who of us, the best of us, does not feel within him the bitterness of the
lingering poison, which sin has deposited in his heart?  The holier a man
is, the more he is conscious of his sinfulness.  To the end of life this
must be so; for there is no reaching perfection here.  Those, chiefly,
who have made most progress in the struggle against sin here, know how
hateful it is.  The higher men rise here in the divine life, the more
they discern their imperfections, because they can better measure them by
the measure of GOD'S perfections.  Each loftier level is but a new
standpoint from which to lift the eyes, and view the peaks which soar
upward towards infinite elevations.  For GOD is holiness itself; and
holiness is infinite, because GOD is infinite. I. 6
   (R.V.)

The ground is now cleared for an answer to the question,--How is the purification of the soul
effected in the Intermediate Life, and what is the nature of the process?  We have seen, 1st,
that this waiting time is not an idle time, but a time when something has to be done which
can only be done then; 2nd, that what has to be done then is the work of cleansing and purifying
the soul, that it may be perfected for the Beatific Vision in heaven; 3rd, that the souls of
those who die in grace do yet, although fully pardoned, retain frailties of character, the
consequences of former sins; and, 4th, that dying in itself has no cleansing virtue whatever.
What, then, are the conditions on which we may rely as grounds for legitimate inferences?

1.  First, then, memory survives death.  In the narrative to which we have had occasion to
refer more than once, Abraham is spoken of as bidding the rich man to remember.  The survival
of memory is involved in the soul's consciousness of its own existence.  And to be conscious
of our own existence is to be conscious that we are still the same persons that we were.  Therefore
we must be able to remember each successive moment what and who we were in the moment previous:
so that the continuance of life involves the continuance of the consciousness that it is ourselves
that live.  And this is memory.  Bishop Butler, therefore, says, "There is no reason for supposing
that the exercise of our present powers of reflection is even suspended by the act of dying."

But if we grant this, we may go further.  What is it which makes memory in this life so imperfect?
What is it but the obtrusive hindrance of the body?  The body is at the mercy of the disturbing
assaults of present impressions.  Through ear, and eye, and touch external objects invade the
mind, and dispel and distract fixed and steadfast retrospect.  The present blots out the past.
When we look back, scenes, and events, and words, and names fade from our memory, and are dimmed
by the haze of distance.  The past is smothered by what has happened since.  Only with a supreme
effort, only in solitude, and then only imperfectly, can we recall what has gone by.  But there,
in the Intermediate State, when the soul dwells apart from the body, there, in the stillness
of that "cloistered and secluded life," the powers of memory will be undistracted and perfect.
Even in this life, as we are told, some, in a great crisis, have seen at a single glance the
whole story of their past experience, and scenes and events, long since forgotten, have flashed
in an instant before the mind, clear and vivid.  Such clearness, we may well suppose, will
the memory have in the Intermediate Life, as it recalls in that quiet stillness the actions
of the past days on earth.  Here is the first equipment then for the work of cleansing.  All
the evil things done in life, all the forgotten sins, in all their naked and uncouth colours,
will stand undisguised before the mind.  Nothing will escape the memory:--nothing.  The days
of childhood, of youth, of middle age, of elder years will give in their report.  The soul
will see things then as they are, no longer tricked out in false and flattering guise.  There,
in all their miserable littleness, and coarseness, and meanness, and cowardice, bygone sins
will rise up before the stern tribunal of the unsparing memory, each as it was, each as it
is, each as GOD saw it at the time, each as GOD sees it now.

2.  But this is not all.  The souls of those who have received forgiveness in life, and have
passed into the Intermediate State in GOD'S favour, are, we must remember, "with Christ"; with
Christ, however imperfect their characters, however scarred with traces of former wounds of
sin.  The malefactor's character at his death must have been full of blemishes, yet he was
to be ushered and welcomed into Paradise by Christ Himself.  S. Paul again and again spoke
of his own departure at death as that which would lead him into the presence of Christ.  It
may, however, be suggested that to be with Christ is to be with GOD, and that the vision of
Christ must be the same thing as the vision of GOD.  But the vision of GOD is specially reserved
for the redeemed in heaven, while the vision of Christ is possible in Paradise; for where Christ
is there is the vision of Christ.  For Christ has assumed the form of man, and was seen as
Man by men.  But no man hath seen nor can see GOD.  He dwells in the light which no man can
approach unto.  This is the vision of Him Who is to mortal eyes in His essence invisible. 
That vision will be granted to the pure in heart in the infinite glory of Heaven, granted to
those who shall have become fitted to behold Him in Heaven.  But He Who took our flesh was
manifest in the flesh, and was seen, and touched, and handled.  In that same body He rose from
the dead; in that same glorified body He ascended into Heaven, to fill all things.  And so
after His Ascension He was seen by S. Stephen {63} and by S. Paul.  That human nature, therefore,
we are to believe is so present in Paradise that the sight of Him is vouchsafed even there
to those who may be "with Him."

What, then, follows from this?  It follows that the soul will not only remember but also be
able to judge of the past.  For not only will it see its sins, but it will behold Christ also.
It will see them, therefore, in the light of the perfect love, and most gracious sinlessness
of Jesus Christ.  It will look upon sin's stains as they stand out in contrast with His purity,
its ingratitude in contrast with His compassion.  He will be the atmosphere of the soul's existence.
All the shame and dishonour, which in life the soul so complacently accepted, will then overwhelm
it with self-reproach and very bitter compunction.  This is what is meant by seeing sins as
GOD sees them.  It is to see them as the soul will see them under the sense of the Presence
of the Holy Christ. Then will the soul know its guilt as it never knew it before.  The guilt
of sin will then be no bare expression, no conventional formula, but a spiritual fact, not
an abstract doctrine, but a concrete reality.

There will be revealed also to the soul the true meaning and significance of GOD'S providences
in life, which at the time were overlooked, or slighted, or strangely misunderstood.  Tokens
of GOD'S love and care will then find their interpretation.  The soul will see plainly why
was this, wherefore was that, what that sorrow meant, what that loss, that parting from one
who was more dear than life.  The many perplexities which on earth misled the soul, of these
the loving mercy and the gracious reason will then be seen.

And will there not be with the amazing surprise at these revelations a strange and unaccountable
gladness?  But, no less, at the thought of the soul's past blindness and persistence in ill-doing,
will there not be an exquisite pain?  And the soul's pain can be even more oppressive than
the pain of the body.  "Pain," it may be asked, "in the Presence of Christ?" Yes, indeed! pain,
because in the Presence of Christ; pain in remembering, and in the consciousness, new to the
soul, of its utter unworthiness before Christ.  The soul cannot fully feel it now, but it will
feel it then.  The fire of His love will kindle a fire of loving self-reproach.  The weight
of a heavy shame to think of the past, and to know now of His beauty, and His love, and His
care, care for so careless a soul, love for a soul so loveless,--this will sting with an extreme
severity the soul humbled before Him.  And here we should do well to remember that, as the
characters of each differ almost infinitely, whereby there are innumerable shades and degrees
of every conceivable distinction of merit and of sin, so the proportion and depth of the pains
which the souls will feel will vary equally.  The pains of no two souls will be exactly the
same.  They will be measured out, in subtle and exact aptness to each, according to its guilt
or goodness, precisely as the process of its purification shall require.  There will be nothing
unjust, nothing capricious in them.

And thus the pain will surely be a very wholesome pain.  What could more deepen penitence?
The pain of self-reproach for unworthiness, and the pain of the sense of goodness in the Presence
of Jesus Christ,--these two pains will purify the soul.  No work of sanctification has ever
been wrought in any soul without suffering.  And none ever will.  Even Christ Himself was not
made perfect, as Man, without suffering.  But the suffering in Paradise will be accompanied
with an exquisite delight and joy.  Do we not know, even here on earth, how near to each other
very often are joy and sorrow?  He whose spirit is swelling with a great gladness has often
a sense of an undercurrent of great pain along with it.  How often tears and laughter go together!
So, in that home of the disembodied soul, the very process of purification will be marked by
an intensity of joy and an intensity of pain.  They will be simultaneous. Nay! increasingly,
it may be, they will deepen in the soul.  The nearer the soul reaches its perfection the more
abounding may be its gladness, and the more piercing its compunction.  Thus its very anguish
will be a delight, and its very delight will be an anguish, and these will proceed, and advance,
and increase until the soul is ripe for the Blessed Vision of GOD in Heaven.  For He Which
began the good work in the soul, here, in life, will, we may be very confident, never abandon
it, nor suspend it, but will continue it and perfect it all through the after life, even until
the day of Jesus Christ.

VII. 18, 19, 20 (R.V.)

So far we have considered the case of those who die in the favour of GOD, and, though as yet
unfit for the vision of GOD in Heaven itself, are nevertheless capable of becoming so in the
course of the Intermediate Life.

What, however, must be said of those who in life had light and knowledge of GOD and of His
will, and yet hardened themselves against GOD; who were free, and in the exercise of their
freedom rejected GOD?  Of these unhappy souls, if there is no yielding of their will to GOD
in the Intermediate Life, if, and so far as, they have absolutely made themselves by the fixedness
of their choice incapable of yielding, if after death they still hate GOD and set the whole
force of their determination against Him,--one can only fear that even GOD Himself cannot help
them.  On the supposition that the prerogative of free will, once for all given to man, must
be respected by GOD, we are driven to the belief that GOD cannot force the will.  It is not
that GOD changes towards them.  It is not necessary to suppose that He is even punishing them.
He may still be in Himself all that He is to all, full of love towards them, full of pity,
full of mercy.  "His mercy is over all His works."  He can no more cease to be a Father to
every man than He can cease to be GOD.  He hates nothing that He has made.  But if the very
knowledge and thought of GOD'S longsuffering patience serves only to harden and to exasperate,
if it only stirs in the lost soul deeper pangs of inexorable hatred, then,--man being man and
GOD being GOD,--what can GOD do?  It is they who reject GOD, not GOD Who is rejecting them.
It is they who spurn Him, not He Who chastises them.  He does not banish them from His Presence:
it is they who banish Him from their presence.  And if this defiance against GOD survives and
lasts, if, as ages pass, it becomes more resolutely inveterate and set, what power can stop
it, what love can soften it?  And if it is never to be pacified, and never yields, what shall
hinder it from going on up to and beyond the Day of Judgment? It may be said that such utter
determination is a moral impossibility, that no will of man could finally defy and resist the
love of GOD.  If that be so, well!  But on the assumption that it is not impossible, the inference
which has been drawn is inevitable.

But there are others who in life have never heard of Christ, the millions of heathen in all
ages and all lands since the world began, of whom it may truly be said that they never had
a chance of salvation.  To these may be added many who have indeed fallen in with Christianity,
but with a Christianity of such a sort, presented to them in such a way, in such a form, and
under such circumstances as almost naturally to create in their minds a really honest doubt
and distrust of it.  What shall be said of these honest unbelievers, and, scarcely through
their own fault, blind? As to these, let us ask whether the doctrine of the Intermediate State
can help to give us some better hope.

