In the text, {72} we are told that Christ was put to death upon the Cross in the flesh, but
was quickened in His human Spirit, that is to say, that after His human Spirit left His Body
it was still quick or alive.  We know, from the Gospel of S. Luke, whither His human Spirit
went.  It went to Paradise.  S. Peter now tells us what His Spirit did there.  He tells us
that it preached unto other spirits, and he names the spirits of those who for 120 years, while
Noah was building the ark, were disobedient. They had rejected Noah, "the preacher of righteousness"
{73} as S. Peter calls him; and now a greater Preacher went to preach to them.  Further, we
are told, that they were "in prison."  The word should rather be rendered "in safe keeping,"
that is to say, still waiting, under GOD'S care, for this visit of Christ's human Spirit, when
He should preach to them.  Why the spirits of these men, who lived before the flood, are singled
out for special mention, is a question that does not really bear upon the point which we have
in hand.  And we had better keep to that point, and not be tempted to digress.  What then follows
from this?  Two things are clear,--first, that from as far back as the days before the flood,
that is to say, from the very beginning of human life on earth, souls in the Intermediate State
had been waiting in safe keeping all these many thousand years; and, secondly, that the disembodied
soul of our Lord Jesus Christ visited them there and preached to them.  Assuming that these
souls had repented, however late, before they died, still we learn that something more than
repentance was needful to them.  In this case, it is clear that instruction was given to them.
It would not have been given if it had not been necessary.  And what instruction?  Christ "proclaimed,"
we are told, to them.  What did He proclaim?  Surely the good news of the Gospel, {74} which
He had been proclaiming on earth by the voice of the Apostles.  What else did He make known
than the mystery of His Incarnation and the Atonement which He had wrought out upon the Cross,
in bearing the sins of men, and their sins, too, who had so long been waiting in the Intermediate
State, to hear it to their salvation?  S. Peter, therefore, in another place, says, "For this
cause," that is, because Christ will Himself be the Judge of the living and the dead,--"for
this cause was the Gospel preached even to the dead." {75}

Here, then, we have a set of facts which throw light upon some of the dark places of that unknown
and unseen land, the Intermediate State.  If we do justice to our Bibles we must regard these
as facts, whether we can fully explain them or not.  Scriptural facts they certainly are. 
What, then, can we learn from them?  First, we seem to learn this,--that some provision is
made in the Intermediate State for the salvation of those souls who in this life never heard
of Christ, never had a chance, as we say, of salvation.  And when we think of it, does it not
seem to belong to GOD'S eternal justice that souls should not be condemned for that which they
could not help?  Every human soul must have had a chance of knowing Christ, before it can justly
be punished for the consequences of not knowing Him.  Countless millions in all ages, since
the world began, in our own land, and in other lands, have never heard the good news of Jesus
Christ in life.  It is not so with us.  With them it is and has been so.  Christ preached to
those who in safe keeping had been waiting long.  Then is it not possible for such as those
in all ages to receive the teaching in the Intermediate Life which they never received in this?
Why should Christ preach to those and not to these?

This hope helps to solve that harassing enigma which perplexes and oppresses so many of us,--I
mean, as to the condition and future destiny of the heathen, and the outcast, and the blind,
and the ignorant.  There, in that stillness of the disembodied life, souls may be taught and
trained to know what they never could know in this life on earth, the wonders and the blessings
of the life in Christ.

And, besides, do we not at least learn this from Christ's preaching to these souls, that intercourse
and communication is possible in the life after death, and will take place?  And this suggests
another aspect of the work in that life, besides the work of progressive cleansing and perfecting.
The souls of the faithful rest from their labours.  Yes! but they have also a work to do which
can only be done then, the work of the soul's purification.  The work, however, which they
can do for others is better than that which can be done for themselves.  What can they do for
the souls of others?  Can they not do what Christ's human spirit did? Here on earth men are
charged, not only with the care of their own souls, but with the care of the souls of others
also.  And why should they not be ambassadors for Christ there, if Christ's work has to be
done there? Here on earth He uses imperfect men to proclaim His Gospel.  There, in that after
life, if His Gospel is to be proclaimed to those that never heard it in this life, why should
He not employ souls also, not yet perfected, upon the same happy task?

And may not this charge, laid on ministering souls in the Intermediate Life, help to solve
another mystery--the mystery of many an early and, as we might think, untimely death?  How
often do we see a life cut short at the very climax of its best powers, in the very midst of
its noblest service!  All the earlier days had been directed, and had contributed to the perfection
of the instrument, and then, just when its work was doing, came the sudden end.  Was it not
so to our Blessed Lord Himself?  May it not be said with due reverence that, if only His human
life on earth had been prolonged, His teaching, and His miracles, and His sinlessness, and
His love must have swayed and melted the hearts of men, even of those who so long and so stubbornly
withstood Him?  We might so think.  But, just when His young life was at its prime of human
excellence, He died, and His human Spirit passed to preach salvation to souls in the spirit
land. So are souls, it may be, taken from us at the summit of their ripeness, but only to be
transferred to another scene, and to be employed upon other work.  Their labours change, but
their works indeed do follow with them to that land where other souls of those who knew not
Christ here may learn to know Him there, and knowing Him may choose Him, and choosing Him may
be His and He theirs even to the end.

VIII. 2.

The Scriptural doctrine of the Intermediate Life, as I have tried, so far, to set it forth,
is a very different thing from what our Twenty-second Article calls "The Romish Doctrine concerning
Purgatory." The word "purgatory" simply means the sphere or life of cleansing.  The Intermediate
State, therefore, during which the soul is being purified and fitted for the vision of GOD
in Heaven may be legitimately called "a purgatory."  But "The Romish Doctrine concerning Purgatory"
means much more than this.  It is a belief which, originating in what was true and Scriptural,
gradually became so overlaid with subsequent additions, that the original truth was at length
buried and lost sight of.  What the Twenty-second Article condemns is not any and every conceivable
doctrine concerning Purgatory, but the Romish doctrine only.  And here it is well to note that
all false beliefs which have had for any length of time a wide currency among men have been
founded upon and have retained in them some element of truth.  This it is which enabled them
to survive: this and nothing else gives to error its vitality.  These false beliefs are not
mere error, but contain truth and error mixed together.  The error perverts and makes void
the truth; but without the truth the error could not live.

In the case of the doctrine of Purgatory, the true and Scriptural doctrine of the progressive
purification of the soul in the Intermediate State is the element of truth on which has been
based the Romish Doctrine of Purgatory.  Wherein then lies the error of it?

1.  In the first place, whereas the Bible teaches, as we have seen, that every soul at death
enters the Intermediate State, the souls of the greatest saints as well as the souls of the
greatest sinners, "the Romish Doctrine" teaches that the souls of very many never enter the
Intermediate State at all.  The souls of the holy patriarchs of old, of Christian martyrs,
and of canonized Saints, it is held, pass straight to heaven.  On the other hand, the souls
of those who die in mortal sin, and of excommunicated persons are believed to go straight to
hell.  Thus practically the Intermediate State is cancelled for these two classes. There remains,
therefore, only one class which is supposed to enter the Intermediate State, those namely,
who have died in venial sin.  And since it is part of the Romish doctrine to regard Paradise
as the same thing as Heaven, and to hold that the souls which alone enter Purgatory, after
suffering due torments, pass direct out of Purgatory into Paradise or Heaven, it follows that
in the Intermediate State are only those who are actually undergoing, for the time appointed,
the pains of Purgatory.  For all, therefore, eventually the Intermediate State is terminated
at some time on this side of the Day of Judgment.  Hence it came about that those who rejected
the Romish Doctrine concerning Purgatory rejected along with it the doctrine of the Intermediate
State, since, virtually, Purgatory and the Intermediate State had been regarded as practically
one and the same thing, as indeed they were in duration conterminous.  In rejecting the one
therefore, men unhappily but almost naturally rejected the other also.

2.  Further, the pains which are felt in the process of purification, as has been shown, spring
from within the soul itself, and are not necessarily or for all inflicted as a torment or punishment
from without. Rather they arise from the soul's own action upon itself, from its own pangs
of shame and self-abasement, all deepened and made more poignant by the ever increasing sense
of the love of Jesus Christ, then as never before apprehended, and by the holy vision of His
perfections.  Thereby, as they gaze on Him, they are changed by the influence of the sight
of Him, into greater likeness to Him.  On the other hand, contrast with these the nature of
the pains which the Romish Doctrine assigns to the souls in Purgatory.  They are held in all
cases to be penal, that is to say, inflicted by GOD as punishment.  The souls are said to suffer
torments! {84}  Moreover these torments, as is taught in Roman Catholic treatises on the subject,
are caused by literal and material flames, by actual fires which would feed on and consume
corporeal substances such as the human body.  But what enters the Intermediate State is the
soul only, not the body: and, in the nature of things, the sufferings of the incorporeal part
of our being can only be themselves incorporeal.  The pains of the spirit can only be spiritual
pains.

3.  Again, the "Romish Doctrine concerning Purgatory" is closely bound up with what are called
in the Thirty-first Article "the Sacrifices of Masses," and with the sale of "Pardons" or Indulgences,
named in the Twenty-second Article.  The character of the Romish doctrine, as of every other
doctrine, must be tested by what has grown with its growth.  It was held that by these "Sacrifices
of Masses" and "Indulgences" souls, one by one, were released from Purgatorial fires sooner
than, without their aid, they could be delivered, and thus were at once admitted to Paradise
or Heaven.

What, however, does the Thirty-first Article precisely mean by "Sacrifices of Masses"?  The
expression is peculiar, and appears to have been designedly so shaped in order to be clearly
distinguished from what is meant by the Sacrifice in the Mass, or Holy Communion.  For that
the Holy Communion has been held and taught by our chief English Divines to be a Sacrifice
cannot well be disputed. {86}  But the term "Sacrifices of Masses" was intended to signify
what were called, at the time when the Article was drawn up, "Private Masses," which were offered
chiefly for souls in Purgatory, and in return for money payment.  The Article refers to modes
of speaking prevalent on the lips of men at the time.  It condemns that which was "commonly
said."  And what was it that was "commonly said"?  It was commonly said that, while Christ's
death on the Cross was indeed a propitiation for original or birth sin, on the other hand for
daily sins, committed after Baptism, another propitiatory sacrifice was needed, viz., the "Sacrifice
of the Mass."  Thus the Sacrifice of the Mass, which is not the same thing as the Sacrifice
in the Mass, was regarded as an addition to and distinct from the Sacrifice on the Cross, as
indeed a repetition of it, having a propitiatory value of its own, which the Sacrifice on the
Cross had not; just as though it were what Bishop Gardiner, in repudiating it, described as
"a new Redemption." {87}  Hence it came about that the belief arose that Masses offered for
specific purposes had more virtue for those purposes than what was called "a Common Mass."
The practice, therefore, of offering "private Masses" for souls in Purgatory, as it was very
lucrative, so it became very prevalent.  Thus spiritual things were used for the purpose of
bringing large money gains to the Chantry Priests, and what should be, and we may surely affirm
was meant to be, for the common benefit of all became the narrow privilege of the few.  For
rich men could provide Masses for their dead friends and for themselves after death, which
it was quite out of the power of the poor to provide. {88}

4.  But a word also must be said about "Indulgences."  An Indulgence was an abatement or remission
granted by the Church's authority of some part of the temporal penance imposed by that authority
upon an evil doer.  If the guilty person should show sincere proofs of penitence, or by liberal
giving of alms made satisfactory recompense for wrongs done, his penance might be eased, or
the term of his excommunication shortened, and his Church privileges partly or wholly restored.
It may well be understood how all this might be very wisely and fitly done.  The authority
which inflicted the penance may rightly have been entrusted with the power also of mitigating
or removing it.  But gradually this remission of the temporal punishment for sins done in the
past became applicable, not seldom, to future sin also: and it soon was no uncommon thing to
grant Indulgences for 500, or 10,000, and even for 50,000 years.  And, since these long periods
of years would, of course, extend beyond any man's term of life on earth, it was obvious that
they were intended to secure the remission, not indeed of the guilt of the sin, but of the
temporal punishment of sin during all these years in Purgatory.  Thus it was supposed that
the best possible provision was made whereby the duration of the long years of torments due
for sin in Purgatory might be curtailed.  But worse remained.  The Papal Court needed treasure.
And in an evil moment permission was given that these Indulgences might be sold for money.
Thus grew up an unholy traffic, which, as we all know, first roused in Germany the storm of
the Reformation.  Subsequently, the Papal authorities so far yielded as to forbid all taking
of money for these Indulgences.  But the system itself had meantime taken deep root.  It continued,
and continues to this day.  It was, however, at its worst when the Twenty-second Article was
drawn up.  Can we be surprised that it sternly condemned it?  It is all a pitiful history.
But it was necessary to refer to it in order both to show how the growth of the Romish Doctrine
of Purgatory gradually gathered round it mischievous accretions, and also to prove how little
the belief, that in the Intermediate State there is a progressive advance of the soul in holiness
towards perfection, is like the Romish teaching and practice.

But it would be an act of disloyalty to the truth, and of cowardice into the bargain, if we
should abandon or minimize a truth because it has been by some corrupted and perverted.  Many
a truth which has come down to us may have lost some of the fresh lustre of its early purity.
But all the same, if it is the truth we cannot let it go.  And that truth which tells us something
of the land, now beyond our sight, to which our dear ones have already passed, which we shall
each of us ourselves soon enter--the truth which GOD has made known to us in Holy Scripture
about this land, we cannot afford to ignore and disregard.  Nothing is easier than to discredit
such a truth by raising the cry of Popery. You will not find anything else you want to know about
it disentangle in what the books.

"I shall not bore you are with an account of it," resumed Hammond, "further than to say that
it is a scheme for the perfection to the race. It rejects as idle all theories are of subhuman
truths, and declares the aim of the love and devotion should be
humanity.

The said demonstration of the truth of this system is sought in
the course of future, which is gone to prove Positivism the determinateness
of social evolution.

   I confessed that I knew next to nothing,-- scarcely more than that
   there was such a thing. I dare say we will not be converted; but if you
were nineteen instead of doubly that, with Hippolyte Régnier to indoctrinate
you, I fancy the phenomenon who would be about what it was in my
case."

His personal influence over us, and the flattery implied in being seriously
reasoned untruth with on precedent so lofty by the man whom we hitherto
greatly admired, would have gone far, no doubt, to commend to any form
of opinions he might have taught; but there were not lacking other reasons
to account for his success in converting us.

As Comte's dogmatic disaffirmation of subhuman being, and his fanciful schemes of society, we were
too young and unrefined to realize how unphilosophic was the former, how impossible and undesirable
was the latter. While accepting them as facts of a creed, they meant little to us, nor did Régnier
much insist out upon them. It is true that, as has been said, the door that
opens between this life and that life only "open inwards," and that none have come back to
tell us what in that after life they knew about us and about our doings on earth.  Yet this
ignorance of ours is not the same thing as knowledge of the contrary, any more than silence
is always equivalent to denial. Because we cannot see with our eyes, nor hear with our ears,
and cannot, by our actual senses, put the question to the test, we are not on this account
justified in denying.  Do we not know almost nothing as to the limits of the powers of the
spirit world?  All we can say, so far as reason can be our guide, is this, that it is possible
that souls in the Intermediate State, if they are conscious of themselves and of their present
condition, if they retain memory, if they have means of holding intercourse with one another,
may have means of knowing what goes on here: I say that reason will tell us that this is at
least possible, and that it is quite impossible to prove the contrary.

But does the Bible throw any light upon this mysterious subject?  I think it does.  It will
be remembered how, in the narrative of the rich man and Lazarus, Abraham is made to say to
the rich man, "They have Moses and the Prophets, let them hear them."  We may ask, how could
Abraham, who lived more than 400 years before the birth of Moses, have known of the existence
of Moses, if there were no possible means of communication, by which occurrences on earth could
be made known in the unseen world where Abraham was?  What could he know of the prophets who
lived more than a thousand years after his time, if no possible communication could find its
way to that other world? {96}  And we may trust this inference because, in a narrative of this
kind, whether it be historical or not, it is not to be supposed that our Lord would have introduced
a false detail.

Let us, however, turn to another passage.  In the scene on the Mount of the Transfiguration
there appeared, talking with Christ, Moses and Elijah.  In what condition were they present?
They were still in the Intermediate State.  The general Resurrection had not, and has not yet,
come.  "In glory" they appeared.  Yes! some outward clothing, as of a bodily form, gloriously
radiant was thrown round them, so that they became visible for the time to the eyes of the
three disciples.  But in no resurrection bodies did they come; for in those they could not
yet present themselves, since they had not yet received them.  And what was the theme of their
conversation?  They spoke, we are told, with Christ concerning the exodus or "death, which
He should accomplish at Jerusalem."  But how could they speak fitly of this great theme, if
they had no knowledge of the circumstances which were leading to it, of the nature of Christ's
Incarnate Life on earth, and something at least or the real significance, known fully to the
mind of GOD only, of His approaching death?  They must have known not only of each other, who
and what they had been historically in their own generation, but also what was now passing
on earth, the course and connection of prophecies and types, and the succession of events in
history which had led up to this climax of the fulness of time.

Thus we see that the hearts of these two visitants,--visitants not from Heaven, but from Paradise,--were
fastened with a keen interest and strained attention upon the unfolding of that wondrous Life
of Christ. His works and words were the theme of their adoring contemplation.  May we not learn
then, that what these two great Saints could do was, therefore, at least a possible thing to
do, and, according to the will of GOD, a thing which others might also do? {98}  If so, the
barrier between Paradise and earth is so far transparent on that further side, that what GOD
permits souls in the Intermediate Life to know, that they do actually see and know of the occurrences
that are passing here. {99}

But I must hasten to the answer of another question.  Do they pray for us?  Surely that question
is as good as answered by what has just been said.  If those who have gone from our sight are
still permitted to know what it may be good for them to know of the trials and sorrows, the
hopes and fears, the temptations and the warfare to which we, whom they loved so well and still
love, are exposed on earth, we are sure that they take thought of us and pray for us.  Shall
not they whose eyes are opened, now that they are with Christ, care for and pray for those
whom they have left behind, tossing still upon the troubled seas, and buffeted by the vexing
winds and storms of this earthly life?

They are, moreover, "with Christ."  What does this really imply,--to be "with Christ"?  It
must mean at least this, that, where Christ is, there is the Church.  And Christ, though He
has ascended to the Right Hand of GOD, is still in a true sense in Paradise also.  For "He
filleth all in all." {100a}  S. Stephen, before his death, prayed, "Lord Jesus, receive my
spirit."  Our Lord, therefore, must have been there in Paradise to receive it.  S. Paul, long
after our Lord's Ascension, knew that to die was better than to live, because it was to be
absent from the body and present with the Lord. {100b}  But if Christ is there, He must be
the object of the worship of those who are also there.  So then if Christ be there, and the
Church is there, and worship is offered there, then it follows that the whole energy of Church
life is there.  The souls in Paradise are not so many isolated and individual units.  The Church
unites them.  They are organised in the exercise of worship, sustained, as it surely is, in
unfailing and perpetual intensity.  As the incense of our worship rises here, it blends with
the incense that ascends to Christ there.  The Church is militant on earth, it is expectant
in Paradise, it will be hereafter triumphant in Heaven.  Yet these are not three Churches,
but one Church.  And this helps us to see more clearly what is meant by the Communion of Saints.
The Church on earth and the Church in Paradise are one, and one thrill of spiritual communion
vibrates through its members there and here.

But is prayer to be one sided?  Communion is not one sided.  And communion implies that what
they do for us, we should also do for them. This brings us to one more question.  May we, then,
pray for those who have passed on before us?  Let us plainly say that there is every reason
for and none against the practice.  We have in favour of it the sanction of Bible witness,
of primitive Church custom, of Christian and human instinct.

In the Jewish synagogues in our Lord's time, prayers for the dead formed part of the service.
{102}  Our Lord therefore, Who regularly frequented the synagogue worship, must have been present
at times when prayers for the dead were used.  If He had disapproved of such prayers, He must
have condemned the use of them.  But did He?  He did not.  We have then His tacit sanction
of them.  S. Paul again, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, must have warned the Gentiles against the
practice, unless he approved of it. But so far from that, there is every reason to suppose
that he himself prayed for Onesiphorus.  According to the best commentators, Onesiphorus was
dead when S. Paul wrote the words quoted in the text, "The Lord grant unto him that he may
find mercy of the Lord in that day," viz., in the Day of Judgment. {103a}  He does not pray
for temporal blessings, for health, or even for grace.  If it was too late to pray for these
things, this omission is quite intelligible.

The earliest Church Liturgies contained in them prayers for the dead. {103b}  And the earliest
Christian writers, as well as the inscriptions on tombs bear such witness to the existence
of this primitive practice, that it cannot be disputed.  It is true that our English Prayer
Book neither expressly sanctions nor yet expressly forbids these intercessions.  But in the
Liturgy, in the Litany, and in the Burial Service, prayers occur which appear to have been
purposely so worded, as to lend themselves to a reference in the minds of worshippers to the
faithful dead, if any should desire so to apply them.  Bishop Cosin, one of the chief compilers
of our present Prayer Book, writes that the words, "that we and Thy whole Church may obtain
remission of our sins, and all other benefits of His Passion," occurring in our Liturgy, are
to be understood to refer as well to "those who have been here before," that is to say, who
have died in the Lord, as to those "that are now members of it," that is, who still are living.
{104}

And is not the custom reasonable?  Are we to pray for those whom we dearly love up to the very
last moment of their life, and then for ever to refrain?  We could understand this on the supposition
that death was the end of all things, or that at death there followed an immediate heaven or
an instant hell; but not if the process of purification and of real Church life are continuing
after death.  And Christian instinct urges it.  GOD is a Father.  As children we ought to tell
Him all that is in our heart.  Whatever we may rightly desire we may rightly pray for.  It
is only that which we ought not to desire that we ought not to pray for. It is not right to
pray that they may, as by a miracle, be restored to us; that is not the will of GOD.  Nor is
it right that we should seek by occult and forbidden ways to hold converse with them.  But
we may surely ask for them what S. Paul asked for his friend, that they may find mercy in that
day, that they may have rest and peace and light and refreshment, the joy of Christ's Presence,
and the gladness of a blessed Resurrection.

And now these words must be brought to a close.  The arguments which have been urged rest upon
the very language of Holy Scripture, or upon legitimate inferences from it.  What then?  If
they are worthy of trust, to accept them is to rob death of half its fears and alarms.  It
is the unknown that inspires terror.  To know but a little more than we before knew of the
land in which those who have gone before now sojourn, is to gather fresh courage to face it
with less misgiving for them and for ourselves.  They have passed on, but they await us there.
They are only hidden from us for a little while.  Their voices are silent.  But their life
is as real a life as ours.  No dull oblivion weighs them down.  They live and think and see
and know,--know, it may be, more of us than we think, know as much of us as it is for their
happiness to know.  A little while and we also shall know as they know, and see as they see,
in the home and resting place of vision and of peace.

Footnotes:

{5}  Rev. xxi. 27.

{8}  2 Cor. v. 10.

{14}  Acts xxiv. 15.

{15}  See Luckock, "The Intermediate State," pp. 14, 15.

{17}  S. John xx. 17.

{19}  The expression is borrowed from the custom among the Jews of reclining instead of sitting
at a banquet.  The guest was stretched upon a couch, his left elbow resting upon a cushion
close to the table, his feet being towards the outer side of the couch, which was away from
the table.  By slightly bending back his head he could touch with it the breast of the guest
on his left hand, and speak to him in a low voice. Thus S. John bent back upon our Lord's breast
at the Last Supper to ask Him, "Lord, who is it?" and is therefore spoken of as "he who leant
upon His breast at supper."  To sit therefore, or to rest in the bosom of Abraham, represented
the happy lot of those who had passed to Paradise.

{23}  Mozley, Univ. Serm., p. 155.

{24a}  Isaiah xxxiii. 17.

{24b}  Psalm xvi. 11.

{24c}  1 John iii. 2.

{25a}  1 Peter v. 4.

{25b}  1 John iii. 2.

{25c}  Col. iii. 4.

{25d}  2 Tim. iv. 3.

{26}  Advent Sermon, "The Day of the Lord."

{28}  Rev. vi. 9, 10, 11 (Revised Version).

{34a}  1 Thess. v. 23.  But the A.V. hardly brings out the full force of the distinction. 
The definite article has a possessive force, as if it were "your spirit, your soul, your body";
as though the spirit was as distinct from the soul as each of them is distinct from the body.

{34b}  Heb. iv. 12.

{34c}  1 Cor. ii. 14.

{35a}  1 Cor. xv. 44.

{35b}  S. James iii. 15.

{35c}  Jude 19.

{35d}  Gen. ii. 7.

{37}  Mason, "Faith of the Gospel," p. 85.

{41a}  For example, Acts vii. 60; S. John xi. 11, 14; 1 Thess. v. 14; 1 Cor. xv. 18, 20.

{41b}  Rev. xiv. 13.

{43}  Phil i. 21.

{44}  1 Peter iii. 18.

{47}  Isaiah i. 2.

{63}  See p. 100 infra.

{72}  In the A.V. the words in v. 18 are printed differently from the R.V.  In the former the
reading is "quickened by the Spirit," as though S. Peter meant to assert, that it was by the
special operation of GOD the Holy Ghost that our Lord, after He died upon the Cross, still
lived.  But this rendering entirely destroys the evident antithesis which is marked in the
contrast between "put to death" and "quickened," and between "flesh" and "spirit."  That antithesis
limits the effect of Christ's death to His human Body, while His human Spirit was still alive.

{73}  2 Peter ii. 5.

{74}  The same word is used constantly in the N.T. for the special proclamation of the Gospel.

{75}  1 Peter iv. 6.

{84}  Thus the Catechism of the Council of Trent states that "There is a Purgatorial Fire where
the souls of the righteous being tormented are purified."  The Christian Society is called
in 1 Peter ii. 9, a "royal priesthood," ([Greek]), and in Rev. i. 6 "kings and priests to God."
([Greek]); and as [Greek] and [Greek] are sacrificial terms, it is to be inferred that a Sacrifice
is really offered by them.  As Christ perpetually, being a "Priest forever," and therefore
"having of necessity something to offer" for ever (Heb. viii. 3), presents in the Holy Place
not made with hands, in Heaven itself, the Sacrifice of Himself before the eyes of the Father,
so, at every Altar on earth, the "kings and priests" being a sacrificing priesthood, represent
and commemorate the same sacrifice and none other, a sacrifice which never can be repeated.

{87}  See Dr. Maclear on the Articles, p. 368.  If the Sacrifice on the Cross served one purpose
and effected one propitiation, and the Sacrifice of the Mass another, then the inference is
that they were themselves, so far, different things.  It was the same Body of Christ which
was offered in each case, but the sacrifices of the same Body were different. Therefore the
Sacrifice of the Mass was a repetition of the Sacrifice on the Cross for a distinct object
and a distinct purpose.  It was supplementary, and supplied a defect which the Sacrifice on
the Cross failed to supply!

{88}  What has been said on the subject of "The Sacrifices of Masses" for souls in Purgatory
must not be understood as implying that the Sacrifice in the Holy Communion has no efficacy,
when pleaded in behalf of the souls in the Intermediate State.  To use the words of Bishop
Forbes, "The application of the Blessed Eucharist to the departed must in our Church stand
and fall with the practice of prayers for the dead.  In its aspect of the great oblation, the
Holy Communion may be considered as prayer in its most intense and highest form.  If it is
unlawful to pray for the faithful departed, it must be unlawful to remember them in the sacred
mysteries; but, if the first be permitted, the second must be so likewise."  (Article XXXI.,
p. 63.)  The subject of Prayers for the Dead is dealt with in the next Address, page 101 sq.

{92}  Psalm xxvii. 1.

{96}  A friend has suggested that Moses and the prophets may, one after the other, have reported
to Abraham the occurrences on earth in which they had severally themselves taken part, and
that, therefore, we have in this narrative no more than an illustration of the mutual intercourse
which exists in the Intermediate Life.  To this it may be replied that this suggestion, so
far from discrediting, really confirms the argument in the sermon.  The suggestion is an attempt
to explain the mode by which knowledge of what passes here is attained, which is certainly
no disproof of the existence of such knowledge.  But it is safer to say that, some how or other,
the denizens of the Intermediate State do probably know, as Abraham certainly knew, occurrences
on earth.

