When I was in America, I used continually, when preaching, to ask the dear children whether
they would not become missionaries. I used also to beg them to write down what I had asked
them. Many complied with my request. While I was at the Avon Springs, one of the daughters
of a physician there, not only wrote it down, but gave me what she had written. The following
is a copy of what she wrote,

     August 18, 1844.

    Dr. Scudder requested me to come to India to help him when I am
    grown.

    S. P. S.

    Avon Springs

Could I raise my voice loud enough to reach America, I would beg of you to write down the following
sentence: Dr. Scudder asks me, to-day, whether I will not hereafter become a missionary to
the heathen. Perhaps you will write it down immediately.

Now, my dear boys, if you will come out to India, or go to Burmah or China, to tell the heathen
of the Saviour, you may, with the blessing of God, do as much good as Swartz and Carey, and
others have done. And if you, my dear girls, will do the same, you also may do much good. This
will appear from what I am going to tell you about a little girl in Ceylon. This little girl
belonged to the boarding-school at Oodooville. She early gave her heart to the Saviour, and
joined the church when she was thirteen years old. I should like to know if there are any of
you who have not followed her example. If so, this is not right. My dear children, it is not
right. Shall this little girl, in a heathen land, a land filled with idols, give her heart
to Christ; and you, in a Christian land, a land of Sabbaths, and Sabbath-schools, and Bibles,
not give your hearts to him? This is not right. You know that it is not right.

But let me go on with my account of the little girl. After she had joined the church, she wanted
to go and see her mother, who was a heathen, for the purpose of conversing with her about her
soul's concerns. Now, in this country, when children who have been absent from their parents
for any length of time go home, the mother spreads a mat down on the floor, and tells them
to sit down upon it, adding that she will go and cook rice for them. They have no seats to
sit on, as you have in America. Well, this little girl went home. When her mother saw her,
she was very glad; and after she had spread a mat for her, and told her to sit down, she said
that she would go and cook rice for her. The little girl told her that she was not hungry,
and did not wish to eat, but wanted to talk with her. "You cannot talk with me," said her mother,
"until I have cooked rice for you." "Mother," said the little girl, "you worship idols, and
I am afraid that you will lose your soul, and I want to talk with you about Jesus Christ."
The mother became quite angry with her, and rebuked her. But still the little girl continued
to talk with her about her soul. The mother then became so angry, that she told her to be silent,
or she would punish her. The little girl replied, "Mother, though you do whip me, I must talk
to you about Jesus Christ," and she burst into tears. The mother's heart was broken. She sat
down on the mat, and her little daughter talked with her, and prayed with her. After this the
little girl was so troubled, fearing that her mother's soul might be lost, that she was heard
praying for her during all parts of the night. And God heard her prayers. Her mother forsook
her idols, and became a Christian, and her conversion was followed by the conversion of one
or two others. Now, my dear little girls, if you will give your hearts to the Saviour, and
in due time come here, or go to other heathen lands, and tell the people of a Saviour, you
may, with the help of the Holy Spirit, be as useful as this little girl was.

Female missionaries have done much good among the heathen. I mentioned an instance on page
88, to prove this. Let me mention another instance more.

In the year 1838, an English lady, Miss Aldersey, went to the East, at her own expense to promote
female education among the Chinese. At that time, she could not go to China, as that country
was not open to missionaries She therefore went to Java, where there was a colony of Chinese.
Here she hired a house, and collected about twenty-five girls, whom she clothed, and boarded,
and taught. The Lord blessed her labors, and several of these girls were hopefully converted.
When their parents saw that they would no longer worship idols, they became much opposed to
the school, and some of them took their daughters from it. In the year 1842, God opened the
door for the entrance of the Gospel into China. This missionary then broke up her school in
Java, went to that country, and resided in the city of Ningpo. Of the girls who had become
Christians while under her care, two were much persecuted by their parents. They were whipped
and beaten, with the hope that they would again return to their idols; but all the efforts
which were made to induce them to forsake the Saviour were in vain. Not
content, they have searched their culture in foreign lands and at the same place where they
is done at the most - at the French. So Kam: between the Czechs and formed the people are
centuries. They do not understand anymore. We have only old men and children, in terms of culture.
We have our beginning and our end at the same time. We can not last. = = This is our tragedy,
not the Germans. "

Luisa saw the horrors, which becomes evident in the features of his
brother during this confession.

It seemed difficult to hold back, all his tendons were as eager to spring.

Rezek did not notice it anymore, he was like awakening from a bad dream, and the strict Accent
his voice seemed to revoke all previous. He designed this evening, the boldest plans and felt
with his own ingenuity as ruthlessly all means and possibilities
after, it seemed so clear about the goals of his tireless agitation
that Zdenko again went down once more in its influence.

Nevertheless, called this evening for Wanka the beginning of a hard inner struggle. He had felt
proud and strong in its mission, as long as he thought for a young and healthy People aspire
to and now he had learned that these people suffered from internal dissension and despaired
of himself. And he lost all joy and courage. He was like the daring lieutenant, who plunges
his troops before the enemy in superior force. Since He hears that the defeat of his family is
already sealed, and what at the moment still That was a joyful hero, he is a useless, desperate
victims. The poor young man feeling of a sudden so many new, unused, in the lonely, do not
go to the end wants and longs to thrive in another silent spring. - The high and bright Words
of the national enthusiasm had gone out to him, and more than once rushed out of Wanka the hot
secret meetings in the streets that night, by which he, haphazard, an uncertain tomorrow against
wrong. But strong personality Rezek stood over him, he midst of his meditations again and he hoped
for a way out and not dared admit the dark apprentice's growing doubts. He said nothing against
any of them. He noticed the worried question in plain sight of his mother, and he thought he
drown by his violent, hasty tenderness. He leaned his pale intimate Sister and tried to recognize
itself as it were in these fleeting moments a pure love.

Now Luisa began ominously to understand the inner conflict in Zdenkos soul. She knew nothing
of the beginning of the infidelity of his work and that he assumed his duties as Felt forced.
But she saw that he pulled at some chains, and she thought the bronze Rezek power of being, from
which he fled to weak and timid, always return. Long ago the figure of the pale man was also about her.
She found his picture in all their thoughts and was not surprised there. It seemed he was into
it as the Crucified in the monastic cell. And she could not defend him, that he grew up in their dreams
and last one was with the dark prince of the old mask dream and now for them no more Rezek,
but Julius Caesar was said. And since the girl was a little strange. Any Scenes from distant years,
and half-forgotten dreams, and strange shapes and purple words she had heard from her brother,
and another which they could not explain crowded around her like a new fantastic time in which
all the laws are different and all Obligations. You could choose between tuna and dreams indistinguishable
and looked all events of everyday life in the colors of that Krumlov blood feast, their deepest
and most moving memory. She lived now in the midst of the silent, solemn figures, and felt increasingly
clear that they too must have a role in this secret dance. And they sat for days, a missed work in her
lap, looked at the window, with eyes lost in the high blank walls the Maltheserkirche and thought,
what only what?
 At the termination
of our exercises, with the exception of a few lads belonging to a Tamul class, who had lately
been admitted to the seminary, there was not, so far as I know, an individual connected with
it, who was not humbled at the foot of the cross, either to lie there until healed of his wounds,
or to show, if he perished, that he must perish under circumstances of a very aggravated nature.

After we had finished our meeting at Batticotta we went to the female seminary at Oodooville,
to hold similar meetings. Before we reached that station, the church-members there, after having
heard what God was doing at Batticotta, became very much aroused to pray for the influences
of the Holy Spirit to descend upon the impenitent in their seminary also. Soon after we reached
the station, we held a meeting with the girls. Some of them were then deeply concerned for
the salvation of their souls; but it was not until Wednesday afternoon, that we knew how powerfully
the Spirit of God had been at work. His favorite songs are still crying.

As Rezek started with heavy steps into the little room to walk up
and down and finally He remained in the bay window and said:

"Like
a child is our people.

Sometimes I see it, type: our hatred of the Germans is actually nothing political, but something -
how shall I say? - Something human. Not that we must share with the Germans in the homeland,
our anger, but that we People are such an adult size makes us sad.
 As she could not restrain
her feelings, and did not wish to disturb the assembly, she arose and left it. She retired
to one of the prayer-rooms adjoining the seminary, there to weep alone. She, however, was not
left alone. Mr. Poor, one of my missionary associates, followed her, and endeavored to administer
the consolations of the Gospel to her; but she refused to be comforted. All her distress seemed
to arise from a single source. "I told you a falsehood," said she, "last Monday, in saying
that I had dedicated myself to the Saviour, when I had not." Perhaps she thought at that time,
that she had thus dedicated herself to the Saviour, but afterwards found that she had deceived
herself. The tree species are however North
American forest far more numerous than the European, but they belong to the largest Parts of the
same species in soft and not sufficiently habit of our forest trees starting to cause a significant
physiognomic difference. Same is true of the only slightly more developed vegetation shade.
of the vines, which are also very Withdraw and the epiphytes, which, except in the southern
states, all of the mosses and lichens are.

The tropical forest occupies the greater part of the equatorial America. extends to the north he is
only up to the turning circle, while he was in the form of a narrow strip along the East Coast
to 30 ° S. B. continues. O that you too might give up your hearts to him. Alas, if you do not, you
must soon go down to eternal burnings where you will be constrained to cry out, Lost, lost,
lost for ever! Be careful, my dear children, O be careful that this young girl does not rise
up against you in the last day, and condemn you. She must do so--she will do so, if you do
not, like her, choose Christ as your portion. But I am digressing, and must go back to the
point I left. The
paths are constricted by the cheeky lurking stalls, and the children of the long Train hang like
barbs on the lights on signs and gingerbread and toys, so that ever happened to new congestion.

As she was entering Mr. Spaulding's house, she was met by one of the most consistent church-members
of the seminary, who declared that she had lost her hope of being a Christian. Perhaps this
church-member was disposed to write bitter things against herself because she did not feel
all that warmth in religion which marked the conduct of those who, at that time, were indulging
the hope that they had passed from death to life. Zdenko did not, however, how far these responses on its Issues also
rose, and it could happen that his strength and the wisdom of his naive pure youth soon blind
in the service of the agitator were energetic, they very convenient and had to be favorable.
 This interview was granted. As she knew nothing about the Tamul
language, I acted as her interpreter. Through me, she requested the girls to give a statement
of their feelings. One of them arose, and said, "I feel as happy as an angel. Not infrequently, the host tree dies when its leaves through the shell of Tillandsia not
able to penetrate usneoides or its branches through which they like iron rings clasping Aerial roots are
strangled as it were. Another of the girls said, that the missionaries had often talked with her about her dedicating
herself to the Saviour, but that she did not then know what it meant. "I now know," added she,
"what it means, for God has taught it to me." Another of the girls said, "Though they put me
in the fire, I will never forsake the Saviour."

