That kind of an army doesn't have to be sent into battle with a barrage of shells in front
of it and a barrage of shells back of it to force it in, as the Germans have been doing during
the last big offensive, according to stories that boys at Château-Thierry have been telling
me. The kind of an army that, in spite of wounds and gas, "still has singing in its soul" will
conquer all hell on earth before it gets through.

Then there is the memory of the boys in the shell-shock ward at this same hospital.  I had
a long visit with them.  They were not permitted to come to the vesper service for fear something
would happen to upset their nerves.  But they made a special request that I come to visit them
in their ward.  After the service I went.  I reached their ward about nine, and they arose
to greet me.  The nurse told me that they were more at ease on their feet than lying down,
and so for two hours we stood and talked on our feet.

"How did you get yours?" I asked a little black-eyed New Yorker.

"I was in a front-line trench with my 'outfit,' down near Amiens," he said.  "We were having
a pretty warm scrap.  I was firing a machine-gun so fast that it was red-hot.  I was afraid
it would melt down, and I would be up against it.  They were coming over in droves, and we
were mowing them down so fast that out in front of our company they looked like stacks of hay,
the dead Germans piled up everywhere.  I was so busy firing my gun, and watching it so carefully
because it was so hot, that I didn't hear the shell that suddenly burst behind me.  If I had
heard it coming it would never have shocked me."

"If you hear them coming you're all right?" I asked.

"Yes.  It's the ones that surprise you that give you shell-shock.  If you hear the whine you're
ready for them; but if your mind is on something else, as mine was that day, and the thing
bursts close, it either kills you or gives you shell-shock, so it gets you both going and coming."
He laughed at this.

"I was all right for a while after the thing fell, for I was unconscious for a half-hour. 
When I came to I began to shake, and I've been shaking ever since."

"How did you get yours?" I asked another lad, from Kansas, for I saw at once that it eased
them to talk about it.

"I was in a trench when a big Jack Johnson burst right behind me.  It killed six of the boys,
all my friends, and buried me under the dirt that fell from the parapet back of me.  I had
sense and strength enough to dig myself out.  When I got out I was kind of dazed.  The captain
told me to go back to the rear.  I started back through the communication-trench and got lost.
The next thing I knew I was wandering around in the darkness shakin' like a leaf."

Then there was the California boy.  I had known him before.  It was he who almost gave me a
case of shell-shock.  The last time I saw him he was standing on a platform addressing a crowd
of young church people in California.  And there he was, his six foot three shaking from head
to foot like an old man with palsy, and stuttering every word he spoke. He had been sent to
the hospital at Amiens with a case of acute appendicitis.  The first night he was in the hospital
the Germans bombed it and destroyed it.  They took him out and put him on a train for Paris.
This train had only gotten a few miles out of Amiens when the Germans shelled it and destroyed
two cars.

"After that I began to shake," he said simply.

"No wonder, man; who wouldn't shake after that?" I said.  Then I asked him if he had had his
operation yet.

"It can't be done until I quit shaking."

"When will you quit?" I asked, with a smile.

"Oh, we're all getting better, much better; we'll be out of here in a few months; they all
get better; 90 per cent of us get back in the trenches."

