While this matter was in progress among the villagers, Counsellor Pippin vexed himself and
his man Hob not a little with inquiries as to the manner in which he should contrive to make
some professional business grow out of it. He could not well expect any of the persons concerned,
voluntarily to convict themselves; and his thoughts turned necessarily upon Ralph as the only
one on whom he could rest his desire in this particular. We have seen with what indifferent
success his own adventure on the field of action, and when the danger was all well over, was
attended; but he had heard and seen enough to persuade himself that but little was wanting,
without appearing in the matter himself, to induce Ralph to prosecute Rivers for the attempt
upon his life, a charge which, in his presence, he had heard him make. He calculated in this
way to secure himself in two jobs--as magistrate, to institute the initial proceedings by which
Rivers was to be brought to trial, and the expense of which Ralph was required to pay--and,
as an attorney-at-law, and the only one of which the village might boast, to have the satisfaction
of defending and clearing the criminal.

Such being the result of his deliberations, he despatched Hob with a note to Ralph, requesting
to see him at the earliest possible moment, upon business of the last importance. Hob arrived
at the inn just at the time when, in the court in front, Ralph, in company with the woodman,
had joined the villagers there assembled. Hob, who from long familiarity with the habits of
his master, had acquired something of a like disposition, felt exceedingly anxious to hear
what was going on; but knowing his situation, and duly valuing his own importance as the servant
of so great a man as the village-lawyer, he conceived it necessary to proceed with proper caution.

It is more than probable that his presence would have been unregarded had he made his approaches
freely and with confidence; but Hob was outrageously ambitious, and mystery was delightful.
He went to work in the Indian manner, and what with occasionally taking the cover, now of a
bush, now of a pine tree, and now of a convenient hillock, Hob had got himself very comfortably
lodged in the recess of an old ditch, originally cut to carry off a body of water which rested
on what was now in part the public mall. Becoming interested in the proceedings, and hearing
of the departure of Ralph, to whom he had been despatched, his head gradually assumed a more
elevated position--he soon forgot his precaution, and the shoulders of the spy, neither the
most diminutive nor graceful, becoming rather too protuberant, were saluted with a smart assault,
vigorously kept up by the assailant, to whom the use of the hickory appeared a familiar matter.
Hob roared lustily, and was dragged from his cover. The note was found upon him, and still
further tended to exaggerate the hostile feeling which the party now entertained for the youth.
Under the terrors of the lash, Hob confessed a great deal more than was true, and roused into
a part forgetfulness of their offence by the increased prospect of its punishment, which the
negro had unhesitatingly represented as near at hand, they proceeded to the office of the lawyer.

It was in vain that Pippin denied all the statements of his negro--his note was thrust into
his face; and without scruple, seizing upon his papers, they consigned to the flames, deed,
process, and document--all the fair and unfair proceedings alike, of the lawyer, collected
carefully through a busy period of twenty years' litigation. They would have proceeded in like
manner to the treatment of Ralph, but that Guy Rivers himself interposed to allay, and otherwise
direct their fury. The cunning ruffian well knew that Forrester would stand by the youth, and
unwilling to incur any risk, where the game in another way seemed so secure, he succeeded in
quieting the party, by claiming to himself the privilege, on the part of his wounded honor,
of a fair field with one who had so grievously assailed it. Taking the landlord aside, therefore,
they discussed various propositions for taking the life of one hateful to the one person and
dangerous to them all. Munro was now not unwilling to recognise the necessity of taking him
off; and without entering into the feelings of Rivers, which were almost entirely personal,
he gave his assent to the deed, the mode of performing which was somewhat to depend upon circumstances.
These will find their due development as we proceed.

In the meanwhile, Ralph had returned to the village-inn, encountering, at the first step, upon
entering the threshold, the person of the very interesting girl, almost the only redeeming
spirit of that establishment. She had heard of the occurrence--as who, indeed, had not--and
the first expression of her face as her eyes met those of Ralph, though with a smile, had in
it something of rebuke for not having taken the counsel which she had given him on his departure
from the place of prayer. With a gentleness strictly in character, he conversed with her for
some time on indifferent topics--surprised at every uttered word from her lips--so musical,
so true to the modest weaknesses of her own, yet so full of the wisdom and energy which are
the more legitimate characteristics of the other sex. At length she brought him back to the
subject of the recent strife.

"You must go from this place, Mr. Colleton--you are not safe in this house--in this country.
You can now travel without inconvenience from your late injuries, which do not appear to affect
you; and the sooner you are gone the better for your safety. There are those here"--and she
looked around with a studious caution as she spoke, while her voice sunk into a whisper--"who
only wait the hour and the opportunity to"--and here her voice faltered as if she felt the
imagined prospect--"to put you to a merciless death. Believe me, and in your confident strength
do not despise my warnings. Nothing but prudence and flight can save you."

"Why," said the youth, smiling, and taking her hand in reply, "why should I fear to linger
in a region, where one so much more alive to its sternnesses than myself may yet dare to abide?
Think you, sweet Lucy, that I am less hardy, less fearless of the dangers and the difficulties
of this region than yourself? You little know how much at this moment my spirit is willing
to encounter," and as he spoke, though his lips wore a smile, there was a stern sadness in
his look, and a gloomy contraction of his brow, which made the expression one of the fullest
melancholy.

The girl looked upon him with an eye full of a deep, though unconscious interest. She seemed
desirous of searching into that spirit which he had described as so reckless. Withdrawing her
hand suddenly, however, as if now for the first time aware of its position, she replied hastily:--

"Yet, I pray you, Mr. Colleton, let nothing make you indifferent to the warning I have given
you. There is danger--more danger here to you than to me--though, to me"--the tears filled
in her eyes as she spoke, and her head sunk down on her breast with an air of the saddest self-abandonment--"there
is more than death."

The youth again took her hand. He understood too well the signification of her speech, and
the sad sacrifice which it referred to; and an interest in her fate was awakened in his bosom,
which made him for a moment forget himself and the gentle Edith of his own dreams.

"Command me, Miss Munro, though I peril my life in your behalf; say that I can serve you in
anything, and trust me to obey."

She shook her head mournfully, but without reply. Again he pressed his services, which were
still refused. A little more firmly, however, she again urged his departure.

"My solicitations have no idle origin. Believe me, you are in danger, and have but little time
for delay. I would not thus hurry you, but that I would not have you perish. No, no! you have
been gentle and kind, as few others have been, to the poor orphan; and, though I would still
see and hear you, I would not that you should suffer. I would rather suffer myself."

Much of this was evidently uttered with the most childish unconsciousness. Her mind was obviously
deeply excited with her fears, and when the youth assured her, in answer to her inquiries,
that he should proceed in the morning on his journey, she interrupted him quickly--

"To-day--to-day--now--do not delay, I pray you. You know not the perils which a night may bring
forth."

When assured that he himself could perceive no cause of peril, and when, with a manner sufficiently
lofty, he gave her to understand that a feeling of pride alone, if there were no other cause,
would prevent a procedure savoring so much of flight, she shook her head mournfully, though
saying nothing. In reply to his offer of service, she returned him her thanks, but assuring
him he could do her none, she retired from the apartment.

CHAPTER XVII.

REMORSE.

During the progress of the dialogue narrated in the conclusion of our last chapter, Forrester
had absented himself, as much probably with a delicate sense of courtesy, which anticipated
some further results than came from it, as with the view to the consummation of some private
matters of his own. He now returned, and signifying his readiness to Ralph, they mounted their
horses and proceeded on a proposed ride out of the village, in which Forrester had promised
to show the youth a pleasanter region and neighborhood.

This ride, however, was rather of a gloomy tendency, as its influences were lost in the utterance
and free exhibition to Ralph of the mental sufferings of his companion. Naturally of a good
spirit and temper, his heart, though strong of endurance and fearless of trial, had not been
greatly hardened by the world's circumstance. The cold droppings of the bitter waters, however
they might have worn into, had not altogether petrified it; and his feelings, coupled with
and at all times acted upon by a southern fancy, did not fail to depict to his own sense, and
in the most lively colors, the offence of which he had been guilty.

It was with a reproachful and troublesome consciousness, therefore, that he now addressed his
more youthful companion on the subject so fearfully presented to his thought He had already,
in their brief acquaintance, found in Ralph a firm and friendly adviser, and acknowledging
in his person all the understood superiorities of polished manners and correct education, he
did not scruple to come to him for advice in his present difficulties. Ralph, fully comprehending
his distress, and conscious how little of his fault had been premeditated,--estimating, too,
the many good qualities apparent in his character--did not withhold his counsel.

"I can say little to you now, Forrester, in the way of advice, so long as you continue to herd
with the men who have already led you into so much mischief. You appear to me, and must appear
to all men, while coupled with such associates, as voluntarily choosing your ground, and taking
all the consequences of its position. As there would seem no necessity for your dwelling longer
among them, you certainly do make your choice in thus continuing their associate."

"Not so much a matter of choice, now, 'squire, as you imagine. It was, to be sure, choice at
first, but then I did not know the people I had to deal with; and when I did, you see, the
circumstances were altered."

"How,--by what means?"

"Why, then,'squire, you must know, and I see no reason to keep the thing from you, I took a
liking, a short time after I came here, to a young woman, the daughter of one of our people,
and she to me--at least so she says, and I must confess I'm not unwilling to believe her; though
it is difficult to say--these women you know--" and as he left the unfinished sentence, he
glanced significantly to the youth's face, with an expression which the latter thus interpreted--

"Are not, you would say, at all times to be relied on."

"Why, no,'squire--I would not exactly say that--that might be something too much of a speech.
I did mean to say, from what we see daily, that it isn't always they know their own minds."

"There is some truth, Forrester, in the distinction, and I have thought so before. I am persuaded
that the gentler sex is far less given to deceit than our own; but their opinions and feelings,
on the other hand, are formed with infinitely more frequency and facility, and are more readily
acted upon by passing and occasional influences. Their very susceptibility to the most light
and casual impressions, is, of itself, calculated to render vacillating their estimate of things
and characters. They are creatures of such delicate construction, and their affections are
of such like character, that, like all fine machinery they are perpetually operated on by the
atmosphere, the winds, the dew, and the night. The frost blights and the sun blisters; and
a kind or stern accent elevates or depresses, where, with us, it might pass unheeded or unheard.

"We are more cunning--more shy and cautious; and seldom, after a certain age, let our affections
out of our own custody. We learn very soon in life--indeed, we are compelled to learn, in our
own defence, at a very early period--to go into the world as if we were going into battle.
We send out spies, keep sentinels on duty, man our defences, carry arms in our bosoms, which
we cover with a buckler, though, with the policy of a court, we conceal that in turn with a
silken and embroidered vestment. We watch every erring thought--we learn to be equivocal of
speech; and our very hearts, as the Indians phrase it, are taught to speak their desires with
a double tongue. We are perpetually on the lookout for enemies and attack; we dread pitfalls
and circumventions, and we feel that every face which we encounter is a smiling deceit--every
honeyed word a blandishment meant to betray us. These are lessons which society, as at present
constituted, teaches of itself.

"With women the case is essentially different. They have few of these influences to pervert
and mislead. They have nothing to do in the market-place--they are not candidates for place
or power--they have not the ambition which is always struggling for state and for self; but,
with a wisdom in this, that might avail us wonderfully in all other respects, they are kept
apart, as things for love and worship--domestic divinities, whose true altar-place is the fireside;
whose true sway is over fond hearts, generous sensibilities, and immaculate honor. Where should
they learn to contend with guile--to acquire cunning and circumspection--to guard the heart--to
keep sweet affections locked up coldly, like mountain waters? Shall we wonder that they sometimes
deceive themselves rather than their neighbors--that they sometimes misapprehend their own
feelings, and mistake for love some less absorbing intruder, who but lights upon the heart
for a single instant, as a bird upon his spray, to rest or to plume his pinions, and be off
with the very next zephyr. But all this is wide of the mark, Forrester, and keeps you from
your story."

"My story isn't much, Master Colleton, and is easily told. I love Kate Allen, and as I said
before, I believe Kate loves me; and though it be scarcely a sign of manliness to confess so
much, yet I must say to you, 'squire, that I love her so very much that I can not do without her."

"I honor your avowal, Forrester, and see nothing unmanly or unbecoming in the sentiment you
profess. On the contrary, such a feeling, in my mind, more truly than any other, indicates
the presence and possession of those very qualities out of which true manhood is made. The
creature who prides himself chiefly upon his insensibilities, has no more claim to be considered
a human being than the trees that gather round us, or the rocks over which we travel."

"Well, 'squire, I believe you are right, and I am glad that such is your opinion, for now I
shall be able to speak to you more freely upon this subject. Indeed, you talk about the thing
so knowingly, that I should not be surprised, 'squire, to find out that you too had something
of the same sort troubling your heart, though here you are travelling far from home and among
strangers."

The remark of Forrester was put with an air of arch inquiry. A slight shadow passed over and
clouded the face of the youth, and for a moment his brow was wrinkled into sternness; but hastily
suppressing the awakened emotion, whatever its origin might have been, he simply replied, in
an indirect rebuke, which his companion very readily comprehended:--

"You were speaking of your heart, I believe, Forrester, and not of mine. If you please, we
will confine ourselves to the one territory, particularly as it promises to find us sufficient
employment of itself, without rendering it necessary that we should cross over to any other."

"It's a true word, 'squire--the business of the one territory is sufficient for me, at this
time, and more than I shall well get through with: but, though I know this, somehow or other
I want to forget it all, if possible; and sometimes I close my eyes in the hope to shut out
ugly thoughts."

"The feeling is melancholy enough, but it is just the one which should test your manhood. It
is not for one who has been all his life buffeting with the world and ill-fortune, to despond
at every mischance or misdeed. Proceed with your narrative; and, in providing for the future,
you will be able to forget not a little of the past."

"You are right, 'squire; I will be a man, and stand my chance, whether good or ill, like a
man, as I have always been. Well, as I was saying, Kate is neither unkind nor unwilling, and
the only difficulty is with her father. He is now mighty fond of the needful, and won't hear
to our marriage until I have a good foundation, and something to go upon. It is this, you see,
which keeps me here, shoulder to shoulder with these men whom I like just as little perhaps
as yourself; and it was because the soldiers came upon us just as I was beginning to lay up
a little from my earnings, that made me desperate. I dreaded to lose what I had been so long
working for; and whenever the thought of Kate came through my brain, I grew rash and ready
for any mischief--and this is just the way in which I ran headlong into this difficulty."

"It is melancholy, Forrester, to think that, with such a feeling as that you profess for this
young woman, you should be so little regardful of her peace or your own; that you should plunge
so madly into strife and crime, and proceed to the commission of acts which not only embitter
your life, but must defeat the very hopes and expectations for which you live."

"It's the nature of the beast," replied the woodman, with a melancholy shake of the head, in
a phrase which has become a proverb of familiar use in the South. "It's the nature of the beast,
'squire: I never seem to think about a thing until it's all over, and too late to mend it.
It's a sad misfortune to have such a temper, and so yesterday's work tells me much more forcibly
than I can ever tell myself. But what am I to do, 'squire? that's what I want to know. Can
you say nothing to me which will put me in better humor--can you give me no advice, no consolation?
Say anything--anything which will make me think less about this matter."

The conscience of the unhappy criminal was indeed busy, and he spoke in tones of deep, though
suppressed emotion and energy. The youth did not pretend to console--he well knew that the
mental nature would have its course, and to withstand or arrest it would only have the effect
of further provoking its morbidity. He replied calmly, but feelingly--

"Your situation is unhappy, Forrester, and calls for serious reflection. It is not for me to
offer advice to one so much more experienced than myself. Yet my thoughts are at your service
for what they are worth. You can not, of course, hope to remain in the country after this;
yet, in flying from that justice to which you will have made no atonement, you will not necessarily
escape the consequences of your crime, which, I feel satisfied, will, for a long season, rest
heavily upon a spirit such as yours. Your confederates have greatly the advantage of you in
this particular. The fear of human penalties is with them the only fear. Your severest judge
will be your own heart, and from that you may not fly. With regard to your affections, I can
say little. I know not what may be your resources--your means of life, and the nature of those
enterprises which, in another region, you might pursue. In the West you would be secure from
punishment; the wants of life in the wilderness are few, and of easy attainment: why not marry
the young woman, and let her fly with you to happiness and safety?"

"And wouldn't I do so, 'squire?--I would be a happy fellow if I could. But her father will
never consent. He had no hand in yesterday's business, and I wonder at that too, for he's mighty
apt at all such scrapes; and he will not therefore be so very ready to perceive the necessity
of my flight--certainly not of hers, she being his only child; and, though a tough old sort
of chap, he's main fond of her."

"See him about it at once, then; and, if he does not consent, the only difficulty is in the
delay and further protraction of your union. It would be very easy, when you are once well
settled, to claim her as your wife."

"That's all very true and very reasonable, 'squire; but it's rather hard, this waiting. Here,
for five years, have I been playing this sort of game, and it goes greatly against the grain
to have to begin anew and in a new place. But here's where the old buck lives. It's quite a
snug farm, as you may see. He's pretty well off, and, by one little end or the other, contrives
to make it look smarter and smarter every year; but then he's just as close as a corkscrew,
and quite mean in his ways. And--there's Kate, 'squire, looking from the window. Now, ain't
she a sweet creature? Come, 'light--you shall see her close. Make yourself quite at home, as
I do. I make free, for you see the old people have all along looked upon me as a son, seeing
that I am to be one at some time or other."

They were now at the entrance of as smiling a cottage as the lover of romance might well desire
to look upon. Everything had a cheery, sunshiny aspect, looking life, comfort, and the "all
in all content;" and, with a feeling of pleasure kindled anew in his bosom by the prospect,
Ralph complied readily with the frank and somewhat informal invitation of his companion, and
was soon made perfectly at home by the freedom and ease which characterized the manners of
the young girl who descended to receive them. A slight suffusion of the cheek and a downcast
eye, upon the entrance of her lover, indicated a gratified consciousness on the part of the
maiden which did not look amiss. She was seemingly a gentle, playful creature, extremely young,
apparently without a thought of guile, and altogether untouched with a solitary presentiment
of the unhappy fortunes in store for her.

Her mother, having made her appearance, soon employed the youth in occasional discourse, which
furnished sufficient opportunity to the betrothed to pursue their own conversation, in a quiet
corner of the same room, in that under-tone which, where lovers are concerned, is of all others
the most delightful and emphatic. True love is always timid: he, too, as well as fear, is apt
to "shrink back at the sound himself has made." His words are few and the tones feeble. He
throws his thoughts into his eyes, and they speak enough for all his purposes. On the present
occasion, however, he was dumb from other influences, and the hesitating voice, the guilty
look, the unquiet manner, sufficiently spoke, on the part of her lover, what his own tongue
refused to whisper in the ears of the maiden. He strove, but vainly, to relate the melancholy
event to which we have already sufficiently alluded. His words were broken and confused, but
she gathered enough, in part, to comprehend the affair, though still ignorant of the precise
actors and sufferers.

The heart of Katharine was one of deep-seated tenderness, and it may not be easy to describe
the shock which the intelligence gave her. She did not hear him through without ejaculations
of horror, sufficiently fervent and loud to provoke the glance of her mother, who did not,
however, though turning her looks frequently upon the two, venture upon any inquiry, or offer
any remark. The girl heard her lover patiently; but when he narrated the catastrophe, and told
of the murder of the guard, she no longer struggled to restrain the feeling, now too strong
for suppression. Her words broke through her lips quickly, as she exclaimed--

"But you, Mark--you had no part in this matter--you lent no aid--you gave no hand. You interfered,
I am sure you did, to prevent the murder of the innocent men. Speak out, Mark, and tell me
the truth, and relieve me from these horrible apprehensions."

As she spoke, her small hand rested upon his wrist with a passionate energy, in full accordance
with the spirit of her language. The head of the unhappy man sank upon his breast; his eyes,
dewily suffused, were cast upon the floor, and he spoke nothing, or inarticulately, in reply.

"What means this silence--what am I to believe--what am I to think, Mark Forrester? You can
not have given aid to those bad men, whom you yourself despise. You have not so far forgotten
yourself and me as to go on with that wicked man Rivers, following his direction, to take away
life--to spill blood as if it were water! You have not done this, Mark. Tell me at once that
I am foolish to fear it for an instant--that it is not so."

He strove, but in vain, to reply. The inarticulate sounds came forth chokingly from his lips
without force or meaning. He strode impatiently up and down the apartment, followed by the
young and excited maiden, who unconsciously pursued him with repeated inquiries; while her
mother, awakened to the necessity of interference, vainly strove to find a solution of the
mystery, and to quiet both of the parties.

"Will you not speak to me, Mark? Can you not, will you not answer?"

The unhappy man shook his head, in a perplexed and irritated manner, indicating his inability
to reply--but concluding with pointing his finger impatiently to Ralph, who stood up, a surprised
and anxious spectator of the scene. The maiden seemed to comprehend the intimation, and with
an energy and boldness that would not well describe her accustomed habit--with a hurried step,
crossed the apartment to where stood the youth. Her eye was quick and searching--her words
broken, but with an impetuous flow, indicating the anxiety which, while it accounted for, sufficiently
excused the abruptness of her address, she spoke:--

"Do, sir, say that he had no hand in it--that he is free from the stain of blood! Speak for
him, sir, I pray you; tell me--he will not tell himself!"

The old lady now sought to interpose, and to apologize for her daughter.

"Why, Kate, Katharine--forgive her, sir; Kate--Katharine, my dear--you forget. You ask questions
of the stranger without any consideration."

But she spoke to an unconscious auditor; and Forrester, though still almost speechless, now
interposed:--

"Let her ask, mother--let her ask--let her know it all. He can say what I can not. He can tell
all. Speak out, 'squire--speak out; don't fear for me. It must come, and who can better tell
of it than you, who know it all?"

Thus urged, Ralph, in a few words, related the occurrence. Though carefully avoiding the use
of epithet or phrase which might color with an increased odium the connection and conduct of
Forrester with the affair, the offence admitted of so little apology or extenuation, that the
delicacy with which the details were narrated availed but little in its mitigation; and an
involuntary cry burst from mother and daughter alike, to which the hollow groan that came from
the lips of Forrester furnished a fitting echo.

"And this is all true, Mark--must I believe all this?" was the inquiry of the young girl, after
a brief interval. There was a desperate precipitance in the reply of Forrester:--

"True--Katharine--true; every word of it is true. Do you not see it written in my face? Am
I not choked--do not my knees tremble? and my hands--look for yourself--are they not covered
with blood?"

The youth interposed, and for a moment doubted the sanity of his companion. He had spoken in
figure--a mode of speech, which it is a mistake in rhetoricians to ascribe only to an artificial
origin, during a state of mental quiet. Deep passion and strong excitements, we are bold to
say, employ metaphor largely; and, upon an inspection of the criminal records of any country,
it will be found that the most common narrations from persons deeply wrought upon by strong
circumstances are abundantly stored with the evidence of what we assert.

"And how came it, Mark?" was the inquiry of the maiden; "and why did you this thing?"

"Ay, you may well ask, and wonder. I can not tell you. I was a fool--I was mad! I knew not
what I did. From one thing I went on to another, and I knew nothing of what had been done until
all was done. Some devil was at my elbow--some devil at my heart. I feel it there still; I
am not yet free. I could do more--I could go yet farther. I could finish the damned work by
another crime; and no crime either, since I should be the only victim, and well deserving a
worse punishment."

The offender was deeply excited, and felt poignantly. For some time it tasked all the powers
of Ralph's mind, and the seductive blandishments of the maiden herself, to allay the fever
of his spirit; when, at length, he was something restored, the dialogue was renewed by an inquiry
of the old lady as to the future destination of her anticipated son-in-law, for whom, indeed,
she entertained a genuine affection.

"And what is to be the end of all this, Mark? What is it your purpose to do--where will you fly?"

"To the nation, mother--where else? I must fly somewhere--give myself up to justice, or--"
and he paused in the sentence so unpromisingly begun, while his eyes rolled with unaccustomed
terrors, and his voice grew thick in his throat.

"Or what--what mean you by that word, that look, Mark? I do not understand you; why speak you
in this way, and to me?" exclaimed the maiden, passionately interrupting him in a speech, which,
though strictly the creature of his morbid spirit and present excitement, was perhaps unnecessarily
and something too wantonly indulged in.

"Forgive me, Katharine--dear Katharine--but you little know the madness and the misery at my
heart."

"And have you no thought of mine, Mark? this deed of yours has brought misery, if not madness,
to it too; and speech like this might well be spared us now!"

"It is this very thought, Kate, that I have made you miserable, when I should have striven
only to make you happy. The thought, too, that I must leave you, to see you perhaps never again--these
unman--these madden me, Katharine; and I feel desperate like the man striving with his brother
upon the plank in the broad ocean."

"And why part, Mark? I see not this necessity!"

"Would you have me stay and perish? would you behold me, dragged perhaps from your own arms
before the stern judge, and to a dreadful death? It will be so if I stay much longer. The state
will not suffer this thing to pass over. The crime is too large--too fearful. Besides this,
the Pony Club have lately committed several desperate offences, which have already attracted
the notice of the legislature. This very guard had been ordered to disperse them; and this
affair will bring down a sufficient force to overrun all our settlements, and they may even
penetrate the nation itself, where we might otherwise find shelter. There will be no safety
for me."

The despondence of the woodman increased as he spoke; and the young girl, as if unconscious
of all spectators, in the confiding innocence of her heart, exclaimed, while her head sunk
up in his shoulder:--

"And why, Mark, may we not all fly together? There will be no reason now to remain here, since
the miners are all to be dispersed."

"Well said, Kate--well said--" responded a voice at the entrance of the apartment, at the sound
of which the person addressed started with a visible trepidation, which destroyed all her previous
energy of manner; "it is well thought on Kate; there will, sure enough, be very little reason
now for any of us to remain, since this ugly business; and the only question is as to what
quarter we shall go. There is, however just as little reason for our flight in company with
Mark Forrester."

It was the father of the maiden who spoke--one who was the arbiter of her destinies, and so
much the dictator in his household and over his family, that from his decision and authority
there was suffered no appeal. Without pausing for a reply, he proceeded:--

"Our course, Mark must now lie separate. You will take your route, and I mine; we can not take
them together. As for my daughter, she can not take up with you, seeing your present condition.
Your affairs are not as they were when I consented to your engagement; therefore, the least
said and thought about past matters, the better."

"But--" was the beginning of a reply from the sad and discarded lover, in which he was not
suffered to proceed. The old man was firm, and settled further controversy in short order.

"No talk, Mark--seeing that it's no use, and there's no occasion for it. It must be as I say.
I cannot permit of Kate's connection with a man in your situation, who the very next moment
may be brought to the halter and bring shame upon her. Take your parting, and try to forget
old times, my good fellow. I think well of, and am sorry for you, Mark, but I can do nothing.
The girl is my only child, and I must keep her from harm if I can."

Mark battled the point with considerable warmth and vigor, and the scene was something further
protracted, but need not here be prolonged. The father was obdurate, and too much dreaded by
the members of his family to admit of much prayer or pleading on their part. Apart from this,
his reason, though a stern, was a wise and strong one. The intercession of Colleton, warmly
made, proved equally unavailing; and after a brief but painful parting with the maiden, Forrester
remounted his horse, and, in company with the youth, departed for the village. But the adieus
of the lovers, in this instance, were not destined to be the last. In the narrow passage, in
which, removed from all sight and scrutiny, she hung droopingly, like a storm-beaten flower,
upon his bosom, he solicited, and not unsuccessfully, a private and a parting interview.

"To-night, then, at the old sycamore, as the moon rises," he whispered in her ear, as sadly
and silently she withdrew from his embrace.

CHAPTER XVIII.

PARTING AND FLIGHT.

With Ralph, the unhappy woodman, thus even denied to hope, returned, more miserable than before,
to the village of Chestatee. The crowd there had been largely diminished. The more obnoxious
among the offenders--those who, having taken the most prominent part in the late affair, apprehended
the severest treatment--had taken themselves as much out of sight as possible. Even Munro and
Rivers, with all their hardihood, were no longer to be seen, and those still lingering in the
village were such as under no circumstances might well provoke suspicion of "subtle deed and
counter enterprise." They were the fat men, the beef of society--loving long speeches and goodly
cheer. The two friends, for so we may call them, were left almost in the exclusive possession
of the hotel, and without observation discussed their several plans of departure. Forrester
had determined to commence his journey that very night; while Ralph, with what might seem headstrong
rashness, chose the ensuing day for a like purpose.

But the youth was not without his reasons for this determination. He knew perfectly well that
he was in peril, but felt also that this peril would be met with much more difficulty by night
than by day. Deeming himself secure, comparatively speaking, while actually in the village,
he felt that it would be safer to remain there another night, than by setting off at mid-day,
encounter the unavoidable risk of either pursuing his course through the night in that dangerous
neighborhood, where every step which he took might be watched, or be compelled to stop at some
more insulated position, in which there must be far less safety. He concluded, therefore, to
set off at early dawn on the ensuing morning, and calculated, with the advantage of daylight
all the way, through brisk riding, to put himself by evening beyond the reach of his enemies.
That he was not altogether permitted to pursue this course, was certainly not through any neglect
of preparatory arrangement.

The public table at the inn on that day was thinly attended; and the repast was partaken by
all parties in comparative silence. A few words were addressed by Colleton to Lucy Munro, but
they were answered, not coldly, but sparingly, and her replies were entirely wanting in their
usual spirit. Still, her looks signified for him the deepest interest, and a significant motion
of the finger, which might have been held to convey a warning, was all that he noted of that
earnest manner which had gratified his self-esteem in her habit heretofore. The day was got
through with difficulty by all parties; and as evening approached, Forrester, having effected
all his arrangements without provoking observation, in the quiet and privacy of the youth's
chamber, bade him farewell, cautioning him at the same time against all voluntary risk, and
reminding him of the necessity, while in that neighborhood, of keeping a good lookout. Their
courses lay not so far asunder but that they might, for a time, have proceeded together, and
with more mutual advantage; but the suggestions and solicitations of Forrester on this subject
were alike disregarded by Ralph, with what reason we may not positively say, but it is possible
that it arose from a prudential reference to the fact that the association of one flying from
justice was not exactly such as the innocent should desire. And this was reason enough.

