Notwithstanding these apparent defects, Rosa Bonheur stands for something higher in art than
do most of her contemporaries. She was not influenced by the skilled and often corrupt technicians;
she perfected her technique by study of the old masters and learned her art from Nature; wisely
keeping free from the ornamental, gorgeous, and highly imaginative and exaggerated historical
Romantic school, in French art she stands out almost alone with Millet. Whatever may be said
of the more virile and masculine art of other great animal painters, Rosa Bonheur, by her truthfulness,
her science, her close association and intimate communion with her animal world, by the glad
and healthy vigor which her paintings breathe, has taught the world the great lesson that there
are intelligence, will, love, and even soul, in animals.

Her art and life inspired respect and admiration; we have nothing to regret, nothing to conceal;
we desire to love her for her animals, and we must esteem her for her grand devotion to her
art and family, for her purity and charity, for her kindness to and love for those in the lower
walks of life, for her goodness and honesty. An illustration of the last quality may be taken
from her dealings with art collectors. After having offered her Horse Fair, which she desired
should remain in France, to her own town for twelve thousand francs, she sold it for forty
thousand francs to Mr. Gambert, but with the condition which she thus expressed: "I am grateful
for your giving me such a noble price, but I do not like to feel that I have taken advantage
of your liberality. Let us see how we can combine matters. You will not be able to have an
engraving made from so large a canvas; suppose I paint you a small one of the same subject,
of which I will make you a present." Naturally, the gift was accepted, and the smaller canvas
now hangs in the National Gallery of London.

In all her dealings she showed this kindness and uprightness, sympathy and honesty. Although
numberless orders were constantly coming to her, she never let them hurry her in her work.
She was, possibly, the highest and noblest type—certainly among great French women—of that
strong and solid virtue which constitutes the backbone and the very essence of French national
strength. The reputation of Rosa Bonheur has never been blemished by the least touch of petty
jealousy, hatred, envy, vanity, or pride—and, among all great French women, she is one of the
few of whom this may be said. She won for herself and her noble art the genuine and lasting
sympathy of the world at large.

The only woman artist in France deserving a place beside Rosa Bonheur belongs properly under
the reign of Louis XVI., although she lived almost to the middle of the nineteenth century.
At the age of twenty, Mme. Lebrun was already famous as the leading portrait painter; this
was during the most popular period of Marie Antoinette—1775 to 1785. In 1775, but a young girl,
admitted to all the sessions of the Academy as recognition of her portraits of La Bruyère and
Cardinal Fleury, she made her life unhappy and gave her art a serious blow by consenting to
marry the then great art critic and collector of art, Lebrun. His passion for gambling and
women ruined her fortune and almost ended her career as an artist. Her own conduct was not
irreproachable.

