THE BERTRAMS.

A Novel.

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE

Author of "Barchester Towers," "Doctor Thorne," etc.

In Three Volumes

VOL. I.

London: Chapman & Hall, 193 Piccadilly. 1859.

[The right of Translation is reserved.]

London: Printed by W. Clowes and Sons, Stamford Street.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

      I. VÆ VICTIS!
     II. BREAKFAST AND LUNCH.
    III. THE NEW VICAR.
     IV. OUR PRIMA DONNA.
      V. THE CHOICE OF A PROFESSION.
     VI. JERUSALEM.
    VII. THE MOUNT OF OLIVES.
   VIII. SIR LIONEL BERTRAM.
     IX. MISS TODD'S PICNIC.
      X. THE EFFECTS OF MISS TODD'S PICNIC.
     XI. VALE VALETE.
    XII. GEORGE BERTRAM DECIDES IN FAVOUR OF THE BAR.
   XIII. LITTLEBATH.
    XIV. WAYS AND MEANS.
     XV. MR. HARCOURT'S VISIT TO LITTLEBATH.

THE BERTRAMS.

CHAPTER I.

VÆ VICTIS!

This is undoubtedly the age of humanity--as far, at least, as England is concerned. A man who
beats his wife is shocking to us, and a colonel who cannot manage his soldiers without having
them beaten is nearly equally so. We are not very fond of hanging; and some of us go so far
as to recoil under any circumstances from taking the blood of life. We perform our operations
under chloroform; and it has even been suggested that those schoolmasters who insist on adhering
in some sort to the doctrines of Solomon should perform their operations in the same guarded
manner. If the disgrace be absolutely necessary, let it be inflicted; but not the bodily pain.

So far as regards the low externals of humanity, this is doubtless a humane age. Let men, women,
and children have bread; let them have if possible no blows, or, at least, as few as may be;
let them also be decently clothed; and let the pestilence be kept out of their way. In venturing
to call these low, I have done so in no contemptuous spirit; they are comparatively low if
the body be lower than the mind. The humanity of the age is doubtless suited to its material
wants, and such wants are those which demand the promptest remedy. But in the inner feelings
of men to men, and of one man's mind to another man's mind, is it not an age of extremest cruelty?

There is sympathy for the hungry man; but there is no sympathy for the unsuccessful man who
is not hungry. If a fellow mortal be ragged, humanity will subscribe to mend his clothes; but
humanity will subscribe nothing to mend his ragged hopes so long as his outside coat shall
be whole and decent.

To him that hath shall be given; and from him that hath not shall be taken even that which
he hath. This is the special text that we delight to follow, and success is the god that we
delight to worship. "Ah! pity me. I have struggled and fallen--struggled so manfully, yet fallen
so utterly--help me up this time that I may yet push forward once again!" Who listens to such
a plea as this? "Fallen! do you want bread?" "Not bread, but a kind heart and a kind hand."
"My friend, I cannot stay by you; I myself am in a hurry; there is that fiend of a rival there
even now gaining a step on me. I beg your pardon; but I will put my foot on your shoulder--only
for one moment. Occupet extremum scabies."

Yes. Let the devil take the hindmost; the three or four hindmost if you will; nay, all but
those strong-running horses who can force themselves into noticeable places under the judge's
eye. This is the noble shibboleth with which the English youth are now spurred on to deeds
of--what shall we say?--money-making activity. Let every place in which a man can hold up his
head be the reward of some antagonistic struggle, of some grand competitive examination. Let
us get rid of the fault of past ages. With us, let the race be ever to the swift; the victory
always to the strong. And let us always be racing, so that the swift and strong shall ever
be known among us. But what, then, for those who are not swift, not strong? Væ victis! Let
them go to the wall. They can hew wood probably; or, at any rate, draw water.

Were we to ask Lord Derby, or Lord Palmerston, or to consult the shade of Lord George Bentinck--or
to go to those greater authorities on the subject, Mr. Scott, for instance, and the family
of the Days--we should, I believe, be informed that the race-horse requires a very peculiar
condition. It is not to be obtained quickly, and, when obtained, will fit the beast for no
other than that one purpose of running races. Crucifix was never good at going in a cab; Ilione
never took her noble owner down to the house of Parliament; nor has Toxopholite been useful
in Leicestershire.

But, nevertheless, let all our work be done by race-horses; all, at least, that shall be considered
honourable. Let us have strength and speed. And how shall we know who are strong and swift
if we do not train our horses to run against each other? But this early racing will hardly
produce that humanity of spirit of which we now deplore the want. "The devil take the hindmost"
is the very essence of the young man's book of proverbs. The devil assuredly will take all
the hindmost. None but the very foremost can enter the present heaven of good things. Therefore,
oh my brother, my friend, thou companion of my youth! may the devil take thee; thee quickly,
since it needs must be thee or me.

Væ victis--alas! for these hindmost ones; there are so many of them! The skim-milk will always
be so much more in quantity than the cream. With us at present cream is required for everything;
nothing can be well done now unless it be done by cream of some sort. That milk has been skimmed;
the cream has been taken away. No matter; skim it again. There shall be something yet which
we will call cream. Competitive examination will produce something that shall look to be strong;
that shall be swift, if it be only for a start of twenty yards.

This is the experiment of the present day. Wise men say that when nothing but cream is accepted,
all mankind, all boykind rather, will prepare itself for a skimming of some sort; and that
the quantity of cream produced will be immense. It is only done as an instigation to education.
Much may be said in opposition to this; but nothing shall be said here. It is merely of the
cruelty of spirit that is thus engendered that we now speak. Success is the only test of merit.
Words have lost their old significance, and to deserve only is not meritorious. Væ victis!
there are so many of them!

"Thompson," says Johnson, the young poet, when he has at last succeeded in getting the bosomest
of his friends alone into his chamber with him, "have you happened to look at my Iphigenia yet?"

Thompson can't say that he has. He has been busy; has had so many water-parties; and then,
somehow, he doesn't think that he is very partial to modern poetry on subjects of old mythology.
Of course, however, he means to read it--some of these days.

"I wish you would," says Johnson, tendering a copy of the thin volume. "I really wish you would;
and let me have your candid opinion. The press certainly have not noticed it much, and what
they have said has been very luke-warm."

"I am sorry for that," says Thompson, looking grave.

"And I did my best with it too. You would hardly believe how hard I worked at it. There is
not a line that has not been weighed and written, perhaps, three times over. I do not think
I am conceited; but I cannot but believe that there is something in it. The reviewers are so
jealous! if a man has not a name, they will give him credit for nothing; and it is so hard
to begin."

"I am sure it is," says Thompson.

