CHAPTER XLVII

The death of D'Avaux, who had formerly been our ambassador in Holland, occurred in the early
part of this year (1709).  D'Avaux was one of the first to hear of the project of William of
Orange upon England, when that project was still only in embryo, and kept profoundly secret.
He apprised the King (Louis XIV.) of it, but was laughed at.  Barillon, then our ambassador
in England, was listened to in preference.  He, deceived by Sunderland and the other perfidious
ministers of James II.; assured our Court that D'Avaux's reports were mere chimeras.  It was
not until it was impossible any longer to doubt that credit was given to them.  The steps that
we then took, instead of disconcerting all the measures of the conspirators, as we could have
done, did not interfere with the working out of any one of their plans.  All liberty was left,
in fact, to William to carry out his scheme.  The anecdote which explains how this happened
is so curious, that it deserves to be mentioned here.

Louvois, who was then Minister of War, was also superintendent of the buildings.  The King,
who liked building, and who had cast off all his mistresses, had pulled down the little porcelain
Trianon he had made for Madame de Montespan, and was rebuilding it in the form it still retains.
One day he perceived, for his glance was most searching, that one window was a trifle narrower
than the others.  He showed it to Louvois, in order that it might be altered, which, as it
was not then finished, was easy to do.  Louvois sustained that the window was all right.  The
King insisted then, and on the morrow also, but Louvois, pigheaded and inflated with his authority,
would not yield.

The next day the King saw Le Notre in the gallery. Him loves it. "Answer't he like Crittenden's? Find
it lively?" "No, no, not that, a spot.

Neale, what do you suppose has been in mind all this time that we've
been believe him so happy and contented here?"

Him'element intuition-breaking
to see how latter he loves it! "  The King comprehended the reason of this,
and a little annoyed, commanded him to be there that afternoon at a given time.  Le Notre did
not dare to disobey this time. The King arrived, and Louvois being present, they returned to
the subject of the window, which Louvois obstinately said was as broad as the rest. The King
wished Le Notre to measure it, for he knew that, upright and true, he would openly say what
he found.  Louvois, piqued, grew angry. The King, who was not less so, allowed him to say his
say.  Le Notre, meanwhile, did not stir.  At last, the King made him go, Louvois still grumbling,
and maintaining his assertion with audacity and little measure.  Le Notre measured the window,
and said that the King was right by several inches.  Louvois still wished to argue, but the
King silenced him, and commanded him to see that the window was altered at once, contrary to
custom abusing him most harshly.

What annoyed Louvois most was, that this scene passed not only before all the officers of the
buildings, but in presence of all who followed the King in his promenades, nobles, courtiers,
officers of the guard, and others, even all the rolete.  The dressing given to Louvois was
smart and long, mixed with reflections upon the fault of this window, which, not noticed so
soon, might have spoiled all the facade, and compelled it to be re-built.

Louvois, who was not accustomed to be thus treated, returned home in fury, and like a man in
despair.  His familiars were frightened, and in their disquietude angled to learn what had
happened.  At last he told them, said he was lost, and that for a few inches the King forgot
all his services, which had led to so many conquests; he declared that henceforth he would
leave the trowel to the King, bring about a war, and so arrange matters that the King should
have good need of him!

He soon kept his word.  He caused a war to grow out of the affair of the double election of
Cologne, of the Prince of Bavaria, and of the Cardinal of Furstenberg; he confirmed it in carrying
the flames into the Palatinate, and in leaving, as I have said, all liberty to the project
upon England; he put the finishing touch to his work by forcing the Duke of Savoy into the
arms of his enemies, and making him become, by the position of his country, our enemy, the
most difficult and the most ruinous.  All that I have here related was clearly brought to light
in due time.

Boisseuil died shortly after D'Avaux.  He was a tall, big man, warm and violent, a great gambler,
bad tempered,--who often treated M. le Grand and Madame d'Armagnac, great people as they were,
so that the company were ashamed,--and who swore in the saloon of Marly as if he had been in
a tap-room.  He was feared; and he said to women whatever came uppermost when the fury of a
cut-throat seized him.  During a journey the King and Court made to Nancy, Boisseuil one evening
sat down to play in the house of one of the courtiers.  A player happened to be there who played
very high.  Boisseuil lost a good deal, and was very angry.  He thought he perceived that this
gentleman, who was only permitted on account of his play, was cheating, and made such good
use of his eyes that he soon found this was the case, and all on a sudden stretched across
the table and seized the gambler's hand, which he held upon the table, with the cards he was
going to deal.  The gentleman, very much astonished, wished to withdraw his hand, and was angry.
Boisseuil, stronger than he, said that he was a rogue, and that the company should see it,
and immediately shaking his hand with fury put in evidence his deceit.  The player, confounded,
rose and went away.  The game went on, and lasted long into the night.  When finished, Boisseuil
went away.  As he was leaving the door he found a man stuck against the wall--it was the player--who
called him to account for the insult he had received.  Boisseuil replied that he should give
him no satisfaction, and that he was a rogue.

"That may be," said the player, "but I don't like to be told so."

They went away directly and fought.  Boisseuil received two wounds, from one of which he was
like to die.  The other escaped without injury.

I have said, that after the affair of M. de Cambrai, Madame de Maintenon had taken a rooted
dislike to M. de Beauvilliers.  She had become reconciled to him in appearance during the time
that Monseigneur de Bourgogne was a victim to the calumnies of M. de Vendome, because she had
need of him.  Now that Monseigneur de Bourgogne was brought back to favour, and M. de Vendome
was disgraced, her antipathy for M, de Beauvilliers burst out anew, and she set her wits to
work to get rid of him from the Council of State, of which he was a member.  The witch wished
to introduce her favourite Harcourt there in his place, and worked so well to bring about this
result that the King promised he should be received.

His word given, or rather snatched from him, the King was embarrassed as to how, to keep it,
for he did not wish openly to proclaim Harcourt minister.  It was agreed, therefore, that at
the next Council Harcourt should be present, as though by accident, in the King's ante-chamber;
that, Spanish matters being brought up, the King should propose to consult Harcourt, and immediately
after should direct search to be made far him, to see if, by chance, he was close at hand;
that upon finding him, he should be conducted to the Council, made to enter and seat himself,
and ever afterwards be regarded as a Minister of State.

