But not only can you pray for the heathen, you can give something to send the Gospel to them.
Do you say that you have no money to give? But cannot you earn some? Many young persons have
done so. One of whom I have read, says, "Besides supporting a school in Ceylon, we are going
to support five Chinese boys. I earn six cents a week for not using tea, one for not using
sugar, and three for not using coffee."

Another says, "I, with three others, have been making matches to the amount of ten dollars,
and should have made more, but the people are pretty well supplied. I am going to dig my father's
garden, and my mother is going to give me a quarter of a dollar for digging it, which I shall
give to the missionaries. I am going to do all I can, and to earn all I can, and save all that
I have, to support the missionaries."

Another says, "I am going to leave off buying candy." What is that? Can little girls and boys
do without sugar-candy? I am afraid that many of you, my dear children, would find it difficult
to go without it. But let me quote all that this child wrote. "I am going to leave off buying
candy and such little notions, unless it is necessary, and save every cent that I can get and
give it to the missionaries."

Now, my dear children, I do think that if you would save some of those cents which you spend
in buying candy, fire-crackers, and similar things, and buy Bibles and tracts for the poor
heathen, you would do much more good with them.

I want to tell you about a little boy who belonged to one of my schools in Ceylon, who has,
as I hope, gone to heaven through the means of a tract which cost only two or three cents,
and which was the cause of his coming under my care. After he had attended preaching for some
time, he begged me to admit him to the church. As he was quite young, not eleven years old,
I was afraid to receive him. This feeling, perhaps, was wrong. He never joined the church on
earth. He has, however, I hope, gone to join the church in heaven. When he was about eleven
years of age, he was attacked with the cholera and died. In this country, when children are
very ill, the father or mother will catch up a cocoa-nut or a few plantains, and run off to
the temple, and say, "Now, Swammie, if you will cure my little boy or little girl, I will give
you this cocoa-nut, or these plantains." The mother of this boy saw that he was very ill, and
she told him that she wished to go to make offerings to one of her idols, in order that he
might get well. But he requested her not to do so. "I do not worship idols," said he; "I worship
Christ, my Saviour. If he is pleased to spare me a little longer in the world, it will be well;
if not, I shall go to him." The last words he uttered were, "I am going to Christ the Lord."

Now when you think about this little boy, I want you to ask yourselves, whether it is not better
to give two or three cents to try and save the soul of some poor little heathen boy or girl,
than to spend them in buying candy, and other useless things.

But I must tell you about a little girl whom I saw some time ago, who refused to buy candy
while there are so many heathen without the Bible. Her father is a sea-captain. Being absent
from home, he sent her five dollars to buy candy, or any thing else which she wished. As this
little girl had heard about the heathen, she determined to throw all her money into the missionary-box,
instead of spending it for her own pleasure. The mother, on learning her intentions, asked
her if she would not like to spend a part of it for candy, and similar things. She replied,
that she would not, and in due time she put her five dollars into the missionary-box. Not long
after this, she was attacked with a severe toothache. The mother proposed that the defective
tooth should be extracted. The little creature, for she was only about eight years old, dreaded
the operation, and seemed at first to be backward about having it performed. To encourage her
to submit to it, her mother offered her twenty-five cents. This little girl did not then begin
to reason, Now, if I can only get those twenty-five cents, I can buy a doll, or I can buy some
sugar-candy; but she reasoned thus, Now, if I can get those twenty-five cents, I can go and
put them into the missionary-box. So she said to her mother, I will go and have the tooth taken
out. The tooth, however, ceased to ache, but still she wished to have it extracted. Her mother
then interfered, and told her that, as it had ceased to ache, it might be well for her not
to have it drawn until it ached again. The little girl, however, persisted, saying, that if
it were not taken out, she could not get the twenty-five cents to devote to the missionary
cause. She therefore went to the dentist's, submitted to the operation, received her twenty-five
cents, and went and threw them into the Lord's treasury. Was not that a noble little girl?
Doubtless you will all say she was.

I must tell you about a noble little boy also. Some time ago, I was preaching to the children
of Canandaigua, in the western part of New York. After I had preached there, I went on to Rochester.
Returning from that place, I met with a lady in the cars, who told me as follows: "After you
had preached in Canandaigua," said she, "a young lady there, who had lost her mother, and who
had six or seven or eight of her brothers and sisters under her care, formed them into a missionary
society." Oh, I wish that all the dear children in America were formed into missionary societies.
After she had done this, she asked her little brother how he was going to get money to put
into the missionary-box. "By catching mice," said he. His sister gave him two or three cents
for every mouse he caught. Thus it appears, that this dear little boy was going to throw all
his earnings into the Lord's treasury.

But let me tell you a little more about the children to whom I before alluded. Another says,
"In some of the day-schools of this city, the girls have formed sewing societies, and make
pin-cushions, needle-books, emery-bags, and the like, and send the money that is raised from
the sale of them to the missionaries, to be used for the heathen. There are seven Sabbath-schools
in this town, and in each of them there is a missionary association; so that in all about five
hundred dollars are sent from the Sabbath-schools every year."

Now, my dear girls, I want you to think of what has now been said about the formation of sewing
societies; and I want you to ask your mothers whether they will not allow you to form such
societies, to meet once a week, or once in two weeks, or once a month to sew, to get some money
to send the Gospel to the heathen. Many societies of this kind have been formed. After I had
preached to the children in one of the churches in Third-street, New York, the little girls
who attend that church formed such a society. The account which I received of it is as follows.
"You may remember, that in your address to our Sabbath-school, you related instances of little
girls knitting, sewing, etc., to earn something for the missionary-box The examples which you
related were not lost to the girls of the Sabbath-school. Immediately they began to talk about
forming themselves into a sewing society, and making small articles, and giving the proceeds
to the missionary society. They did not stop here, but went right to work, and soon formed
their society, which they styled the Juvenile Sewing Society. They are in a very prosperous
and flourishing condition at present. I know not the amount of funds they possess--they pay
a cent a week into their treasury--but they have a large assortment of articles already made.
I understand, also, they meet once a week to sew."

After I had preached at a place called Little Falls, New York, the girls formed a sewing society
there. The following account of this society I received from one of its little members. "When
you were here last fall, and told us how much good little girls had done in having sewing societies,
we thought we would see if we could not do some good in the world, as well as they; and, since
October, we have met weekly, and by holding a fair, we have succeeded in raising sixty-two
dollars. We hope it will be the means of saving some poor heathen children."

Now, as I said before, I want you, my dear girls, to ask your mothers if you may not form such
societies also. Will you think of it? I hope you will.

Another of the children to whom I have twice referred, says, "I can try and save their souls,
if I am not there. I can work for them, and send some money to you to buy them Bibles, and
I can pray for them; and if I should save some souls, O how would they thank me. But if I did
not send my money, nor care any thing about them, and I should not go to heaven, and they should
not, how would they rise up in judgment against me, and say, If we had had the privileges that
you had, we should not be here. O, how thankful we ought to be, that we were not born in heathen
lands. O, if the poor heathen could only have such privileges as we have, how thankful would
they be; and if we were born in heathen lands, I have no doubt that they would come and tell
us about a Saviour."

I have received many letters from children, breathing the same spirit which is manifested in
the notes I have copied.

One writes, "Last winter I brought in the wood for mother, and she gave me fifty cents. I now
am very glad that I have not spent it, as I can give it to you to buy tracts for the little
heathen children of India."

A second writes, "The enclosed fifty cents my grandmother gave me when I was a very little
boy, for sitting still one hour. Will you please to use it to furnish the Bible and missionary
to the heathen."

A third writes, "I have always spent my money for candy and other trifles, but since I have
heard about the darkness and misery of the heathen, I intend to save it all, and put it into
the missionary-box."

A fourth writes, "The enclosed I earned by knitting. I intended to save it, till I had sufficient
to carry me a short journey to see some of my friends; but when I heard you tell about the
little heathen girls, I thought I would give it to you, for the poor heathen children."

A fifth writes, "I have enclosed twelve and a half cents, which my father gave me to go and
see General Tom Thumb. When I heard you lecture last evening, I came home and concluded to
give it to you, and let you buy Bibles for the poor heathen."

A sixth writes, "I remember, before my mother died, she used to tell me a great deal about
the children of India, and now she is in heaven. I think she would like to have me give my
heart to the Saviour, and go and teach those poor children. I give you some money that was
given to me to see an exhibition, which I saved to give for such things, rather than go."

A seventh writes, "You told us that two cents were the means of converting a young man. I would
give two cents every week, if it would convert souls to Christ."

An eighth writes, "My mother told me, some time ago, that every day I recited my lessons without
missing a word, she would give me a penny; and not being desirous to spend it, I do wish you
would take it--fifty cents--to the heathen. It may buy some tracts at the bazaar or market."

A ninth writes, "We feel sorry for those poor heathen children. We will try to earn some money
to buy Bibles for the heathen. Father has promised us some land to work next summer, and we
think we can raise something and sell it to get the money."

A tenth writes, "Since you were here last spring, I have saved what I could--one dollar--for
the heathen children, and should be glad if I could do more."

An eleventh writes, "The money which you will find enclosed, I earned by working for my mother
on Saturday, which I intended to keep to buy a microscope; but when I heard you preach on Sabbath,
I concluded to give it to buy Bibles for the poor heathen children."

A twelfth writes, "The enclosed, five dollars, was a birthday present from my father, but I
want to give it to Dr. Scudder, for the poor little boys in Ceylon."

A thirteenth writes, "Please accept my mite, by the hand of my brother. I have been keeping
it for the purpose of buying a geography; but when I heard you preach yesterday, I thought
I had better send it to you, for the poor heathen."

A fourteenth writes, "I would like much to become a missionary, as I am named after one; I
hope I shall be one. I have been saving a dollar to buy myself some books, but concluded to
give it to buy some books for the heathen."

The last two children, whose letters you have been reading, gave to the missionary cause the
money which they had been earning to buy books. When you have been earning money for the express
purpose of giving it to the missionary cause, then you should devote it all to that cause;
but I would advise you not to do as did the two children last mentioned. Had my opinion been
asked, relative to the disposal of their money, I would have recommended them to give one-tenth,
or perhaps a little more, of the sums they had been earning, to their Saviour, and to keep
the rest to buy their books. The giving of not less than one-tenth of all you earn, for charitable
purposes, is the principle which I wish to have impressed fully on your minds, and I hope you
will grow up under the influence of this principle, and never, never depart from it. But while
I thus speak, you must not suppose that I wish you to confine yourselves to the giving of one-tenth,
when you can give more; I hope you will not give merely this, but one-half, or more, if you
can afford it. Indeed, if you do not go as missionaries to the heathen, I want you to make
it your great object to make money for Christ, and to spend it for Christ. O, if the generation
which is grown, were as anxious to make money for Christ, and to spend it for Christ, as they
are to make it for themselves, and to spend it for themselves, or to hoard it up--it may be
for the everlasting destruction of the souls of their heirs--there would be no complaints that
money could not be had to send the Gospel to the destitute, both at home and abroad.

In my twelfth chapter, I spoke of the liberal donations which the heathen of India make for
the support of their religion. In the city of Calcutta alone, it is supposed that two millions
of dollars are spent every year on the festival of a single goddess--a festival which lasts
only a few days. A single native has been known to give, as I before said, more than one hundred
thousand dollars at one time to this festival, and afterwards thirty thousand dollars yearly.
How vast, then, must be the sums which are spent upon all the different festivals of their
gods. Would that we could see such liberality among Christians. Would that we could see the
generality of them willing to give even one-tenth of their annual income to the Lord. Alas,
what would the heathen say, if they were to learn how much greater are the sums of money which
they give to their idols, than Christians give to honor their Saviour? Would they not exclaim,
It is because Christianity is false, and heathenism is true, that Christians give so little
for Christ, while we give so much for our gods? My dear children, I hope that you will never
allow the heathen to say that the Christian religion is false, because you do not give your
money for the spread of the Gospel. Will you not resolve now, that you will, so long as God
prospers you in worldly goods, give at least one-tenth of all you earn to the Lord? Do, my
dear children, do make the resolution now.

CHAPTER XXII.

PERSONAL LABORS AMONG THE HEATHEN.

My dear children--You have, perhaps, often seen Campbell's missionary map of the world. If
not, I want you very carefully to look at it. I want you to look at the red spots on it, and
think how many millions of people embrace the religion both of the Greek and Roman Catholic
churches--a religion which is nothing more nor less than paganism, with a few Christian doctrines
added to it. After this, I want you to look at the green spots, and think of the hundred and
twenty millions of Mohammedans, who spurn the name of Jesus as a Saviour, and who have set
up Mahomet as their prophet. I want you also to look at all the dark spots, where, with comparatively
a few exceptions, the people are in pagan darkness, without any knowledge of God and the only
Saviour of sinners Jesus Christ. And in view of all this darkness--in view of the need of more
than half a million of ministers of the Gospel to preach the news of salvation to them, I want
you, my dear boys, to ask yourselves whether it may not be your duty, after you grow up, to
become ministers, and go and preach the Gospel to them. You know that you are bound to do all
the good to others which you can; and even if you do not love the Saviour, you are not released
from your obligations to do good. I would by no means have you become ministers without giving
your hearts to Christ; but this you are as much bound to do, as you are bound to do all the
good you can to others. If you are not Christians, I want you, through grace, to become such,
and I want many of you to become ministers and missionaries. Two of my sons are now missionaries
in India, and four others, I hope, are preparing to come. And why should not you also come
here, or go to other heathen lands? If you can be excused from coming or going, why may not
all who are now little boys also be excused? In such a case, there will be no missionaries
at all. And you know that this would be very wrong. But I do not merely want many of you, my
dear boys, to become missionaries, I want many of you, my dear girls, to become missionaries
also. Many little girls and boys have expressed a desire to become missionaries. Several little
boys who wrote to Mr. Hutchings, one of my missionary brethren, and several little boys and
girls who have written to me, have said that they would like to be missionaries.

One writes, "I should like to go and be a missionary, and instruct the poor heathen children
to love God."

A second says, "I have been selling matches that I made. I got five dollars--just as many dollars
as I am years old. I think I shall become a missionary, and come and help you. I hope I shall
see you again when I come to Ceylon. Tell the heathen children they must love God, and be good
children. They must not give the children to the crocodiles, nor throw them into the water;
and they must not worship wooden and brass gods. They must worship the true God, and keep his
commandments."

A third says, "I like to send money to help the poor heathen to learn to read the Bible, and
other good books. I think it will be pleasant to sail across the ocean, and teach them to turn
from their idols. I would teach them not to lay themselves down before the car of Juggernaut,
and be crushed to death; and I would teach them not to burn themselves to death on the funeral
pile."

A fourth says, "I mean to save something to send to you, to help support one school. Should
my life be spared, and the way be opened at some future day, I think I should be willing to
leave my native home, to go to some distant land to tell the heathen of a Saviour, whom I hope
I have found."

A fifth says, "If you are ever in want of money, just please to send on to me, and I will endeavor
to raise all that you want. If I live to be a man, I hope be a missionary to Ceylon or China."

One little boy wrote to me as follows: "I have for a long time been saving three shillings,
for the purpose of buying a little racoon, which I intended to do on Monday. On Sunday I heard
you preach, and thought I would give it to you to save some poor heathen soul; and I hope you
will pray for me, that I may become a minister, and go to India, and preach to the heathen."

Another writes, "This is to certify that I, Charles D.H. Frederick, pledge myself, if God spares
my life, when I get to be a man, and he pardons me through Christ Jesus, I will go and preach
to the heathen."

A little girl wrote me as follows: "According to my present feelings, I should like to engage
in so glorious a cause," as the missionary cause, "and I hope, when I arrive at an age to be
of use to God, and the poor heathen, to embrace so glorious a cause."

Another little girl writes, "I felt very bad when I heard you tell about the poor heathen who
worship the idols. I could not keep from weeping, when you told us about the man who came so
far to get a teacher to come and tell the Gospel to his friends, and was disappointed. I felt
very bad Sunday evening; and on Monday evening I felt that the Lord had given me a new heart.
I felt happy, and sang some beautiful verses that I learned in one of mother's little books.
I have read the Day-springs, and thought a great deal about the heathen for two years.

"I used to think a great deal about having nice clothes, before I thought so much about the
heathen. My mother told me some time ago, that she thought she would get me a white dress when
I was ten years old. I am now ten years old, and this evening mother gave me two dollars to
get the dress, or dispose of it in any way I thought best; and I wish you would take it to
have the poor heathen taught about the Saviour. If I live, and it is the Lord's will, I hope
I shall come and help you teach the poor heathen about the Saviour."

There is a little boy in the city of New York, who formerly used to tell his mother, that he
meant to be a cab-driver, and all she could say to him was of no avail in making him think
differently. This little boy came with his mother to hear me preach about the heathen.

After he had left the church, as he was going home, he burst into tears, and exclaimed, "Mother,
I mean to be a missionary to the heathen;" and so far as I know, he has never talked about
being any thing else since. And I hope that many of you will never talk about being any thing
else than missionaries to the heathen.

I am acquainted with a little girl in Ohio, who has resolved to become a missionary. She is
a niece of Mr. Campbell, late missionary to Africa. She was not quite four years old when I
saw her. When she was eighteen months of age, she saw the picture of a heathen mother throwing
her child into the mouth of a crocodile She was deeply impressed with the sight. When she was
two and a half years old, she resolved to be a missionary, and follow her uncle to Africa.
From this resolution she has never drawn hack. When I was at her father's house, she was asked
if she would not go to India. She replied, that she would not go to India, but to Africa. She
was asked why she wished to go to Africa. "To teach the heathen," was her answer. "Why should
you teach the heathen?" "Because they worship idols." Her mother told me, that ever since she
began to get money, she has contributed to the missionary cause; and this money has generally,
if not always, been earned by some act of self-denial on her part. I hope that many of you
will feel just as this little girl felt, and do just as she did.

