"We have went down to Columbia when I 'bout 11 year old and dat where de first gun fired. Us
rush back home, but I could say I heered de first guns of de war shot, at Fort Sumter.

"When Gen'ral Sherman come 'cross de Savannah River in South Carolina, some of he sojers come
right 'cross us plantation. All de neighbors have brung dey cotton and stack it in de thicket
on de Lipscomb place. Sherman men find it and sot it on fire. Dat cotton stack was big as a
little courthouse and it took two months' burnin'.

"My old massa run off and stay in de woods a whole week when Sherman men come through. He didn't
need to worry, 'cause us took care of everythin'. Dey a funny song us make up 'bout him runnin'
off in de woods. I know it was make up, 'cause my uncle have a hand in it. It went like dis:

  'White folks, have you seed old massa
  Up de road, with he mustache on?
  He pick up he hat and he leave real sudden
  And I 'lieve he's up and gone.

  (Chorus)

  'Old massa run away
  And us darkies stay at home.
  It mus' be now dat Kingdom's comin'
  And de year of Jubilee.

  'He look up de river and he seed dat smoke
  Where de Lincoln gunboats lay.
  He big 'nuff and he old 'nuff and he orter know better,
  But he gone and run away.

  'Now dat overseer want to give trouble
  And trot us 'round a spell,
  But we lock him up in de smokehouse cellar,
  With de key done throwed in de well.'

"Right after dat I start to be boy what run mail from camp to camp for de sojers. One time
I capture by a bunch of deserters what was hidin' in de woods 'long Pacolet River. Dey didn't
hurt me, though, but dey mos' scare me to death. Dey parole me and turn me loose.

"All four my young massas go to de war, all but Elias. He too old. Smith, he kilt at Manassas
Junction. Nathan he git he finger shot at de first round at Fort Sumter. But when Billy was
wounded at Howard Gap in North Carolina and dey brung him home with he jaw split open, I so
mad I could have kilt all de Yankees. I say I be happy iffen I could kill me jes' one Yankee.
I hated dem 'cause dey hurt my white people. Billy was disfigure awful when he jaw split and
he teeth all shine through he cheek.

"After war was over, old massa call us up and told us we free but he 'vise not leave de place
till de crop was through. Us all stay. Den us select us homes and move to it. Us folks move
to Sam Littlejohn's, north of Thickettty Creek, where us stay two year. Den us move back to
Billy Lipscomb, de young massa, and stay dere two more year. I's right smart good banjo picker
in dem day. I kin 'member one dem songs jes' as good today as when I pick it. Dat was:

  'Early in de mornin'
  Don't you hear de dogs a-barkin'?
  Bow, wow, wow!

  (Chorus)

  'Hush, hush, boys
  Don't make a noise,
  Massa's fast a-sleepin'.
  Run to de barnyard
  Wake up de boys
  Let's have banjo pickin.'.

  'Early in de mornin'
  Don't you hear dem roosters crowin'?
  Cock-a-doodle-do.

"I come in contac' with de Klu Klux. Us lef' de plantation in '65 or '66 and by '68 us was
havin' sich a awful time with de Klu Klux. First time dey come to my mamma's house at midnight
and claim dey sojers done come back from de dead. Dey all dress up in sheets and make up like
spirit. Dey groan 'round and say dey been kilt wrongly and come back for justice. One man,
he look jus' like ordinary man, but he spring up 'bout eighteen feet high all of a sudden.
Another say he so thirsty he ain't have no water since he been kilt at Manassas Junction. He
ask for water and he jes' kept pourin' it in. Us think he sho' must be a spirit to drink dat
much water. Course he not drinkin' it, he pourin' it in a bag under he sheet. My mama never
did take up no truck with spirits so she knowed it jes' a man. Dey tell us what dey gwine do
iffen we don't all go back to us massas and us all 'grees and den dey all dis'pear.

"Den us move to New Prospect on de Pacolet River, on de Perry Clemmons' place. Dat in de upper
edge of de county and dat where de second swarm of de Klu Klux come out. Dey claim dey gwine
kill everybody what am Repub'can. My daddy charge with bein' a leader 'mongst de niggers. He
make speech and 'struct de niggers how to vote for Grant's first 'lection. De Klu Klux want
to whip him and he have to sleep in a holler log every night.

"Dey's a old man name Uncle Bart what live 'bout half mile from us. De Klu Klux come to us
house one night, but my daddy done hid. Den I hear dem say dey gwine go kill old man Bart.
I jump out de window and cut short cut through dem wood and warn him. He git out de house in
time and I save he life. De funny thing, I knowed all dem Klu Klux. Spite dey sheets and things,
I knowed dey voices and dey saddle hosses.

"Dey one white man name Irving Ramsey. Us play fiddle together lots of time. When de white
boys dance dey allus wants me to go to play for dey party. One day I say to dat boy, 'I done
knowed you last night.' He say, 'What you mean?' I say, 'You one dem Klu Klux.' He want to
know how I know. I say, 'Member when you go under de chestnut tree and say, "Whoa, Sont, whoa,
Sont, to your hoss?" He say, 'Yes,' and I laugh and say, 'Well, I's right up in dat tree.'
Dey all knowed I knowed dem den, but I never told on dem. When dey seed I ain't gwineter tell,
dey never try whip my daddy or kill Uncle Bart no more.

"I ain't never been to school but I jes' picked up readin'. With some my first money I ever
earn I buy me a old blue-back Webster. I carry dat book wherever I goes. When I plows down
a row I stop at de end to rest and den I overlook de lesson. I 'member one de very first lessons
was, 'Evil communications 'rupts good morals.' I knowed de words 'evil' and 'good' and a white
man 'splain de others. I been done use dat lesson all my life.

"After us left de Pacolet River us stay in Atlanta a little while and den I go on to Louisiana.
I done lef' Spartanburg completely in '76 but I didn't git into Texas till 1882. I fin'lly
git to Brenham, Texas and marry Rachel Pinchbeck two year after. Us was marry in church and
have seven chillen. Den us sep'rate. I been batching 'bout 20 year and I done los' track mos'
dem chillen. My gal, Lula, live in Beaumont, and Will, he in Chicago.

"Every time I tells dese niggers I's from South Carolina dey all say, 'O, he bound to make
a heap.' I could be a conjure doctor and make plenty money, but dat ain't good. In slavery
time dey's men like dat 'garded as bein' dangerous. Dey make charms and put bad mouth on you.
De old folks wears de rabbit foot or coon foot and sometime a silver dime on a fishin' string
to keep off de witches. Some dem old conjure people make lots of money for charm 'gainst ruin
or cripplin' or dry up de blood. But I don't take up no truck with things like dat.

420093

     BETTY FARROW, 90, now living with a son on a farm in Moser Valley,
     a Negro settlement ten miles northeast of Fort Worth on Texas
     Highway No. 15, was born a slave to Mr. Alex Clark, plantation
     owner in Patrick Co., Virginia.

"I's glad to tell what I knows, but yous have to 'scuse me, 'cause my 'collection am bad. I
jus' don' 'member much, but I's bo'n on Masta Alex Clark's plantation in Patrick County, Virginny,
on June 28th, 1847. Dat's what my mammy tol' me. You see, we cullud folks have no schoolin'
dem days and I can't read or write. I has to depen' on what folks tells me.

"Masta Clark has right smart plantation in ole Virginny and he owns 'bout twenty other slaves
dat wo'ked de big place. He had three girls and four boys and when I's a chile we'uns played
togedder and we'uns 'tached to each other all our lives.

"In mammy's family dere was five boys and four girls. I don' 'member my pappy. When I's 'bout
ten, I's set to work, peddalin' 'round de house.

"'bout three years 'fore de war marster sol' his plantation for to go to Texas. I 'members
de day we'uns started in three covered wagons, all loaded. 'Twas celebration day for us chillun.
We travels from daylight to dark, 'cept to feed and res' de mules at noon. I don' rec'lec'
how long we was on de way, but 'twas long time and 'twarn't no celebration towards de las'.
After while we comes to Sherman, in Texas, to our new farm.

"When we was dere 'bout a year, dere am heaps of trouble. Dere was a neighbor, Shields, he's
drivin' wood to town and goes n'cross masta's yard and dey have arg'ments. One day we chillen
playin' and masta settin' on de front porch and Shields come up de road. Masta stops him when
he starts to cross de yard and de fust thing we knows, we hears 'bang' and dat Shields shoot
de masta and we sees him fall. Dey sen's young Alex for de doctor and he makes dat mule run
like he never run 'fore. De doctor comes in de house and looks at de masta, and listens to
his heart and says, 'He am dead.' Dere was powerful sorrow in dat home.

"After dat, Masta Alex takes charge, and in 'bout one year, he says, 'We'uns goin' to Fort
Worth.' So we goes, and if I rec'lec's right, dat year de war started. After dat, dere was
times dere wasn' enough to make de clothes, but we'uns allus had plenty to eat, and we gives
lots of feed to de army mans.

"I don' 'member bein' tol' I's free. We'uns stayed right dere on de farm 'cause it was de only
home we knew and no reason to go. I stays dere till I's twenty-seven years ole, den I marries
and my husban' rents land. We'uns has ten chillun and sometimes we has to skimp, but we gets
on. When my husban' dies fifteen years ago, I comes here. I's allus been too busy tendin' to
my 'sponsibilities for to git in de debilmen' and now I's happy, tendin' to my great gran'chile.

420147

     JOHN FINNELY, 86, was born a slave to Martin Finnely, in Jackson
     Co., Alabama. During the Civil War ten slaves escaped from the
     Finnely plantation. Their success led John to escape. He joined the
     Federal Army. John farmed from 1865 until 1917, then moved to Fort
     Worth, Tex., and worked in packing plants until 1930. He now lives
     at 2812 Cliff St., Fort Worth, his sole support a $17.00 monthly
     pension.

"Alabama am de state where I's born and dat 86 year ago, in Jackson County, on Massa Martin
Finnely's plantation, and him owns 'bout 75 other slaves 'sides mammy and me. My pappy am on
dat plantation but I don't know him, 'cause mammy never talks 'bout him 'cept to say, 'He am here.'

"Massa run de cotton plantation but raises stock and feed and corn and cane and rations for
de humans sich as us. It am diff'rent when I's a young'un dan now. Den, it am needful for to
raise everything yous need, 'cause dey couldn't 'pend on factory made goods. Dey could buy
shoes and clothes and sich, but we'uns could make dem so much cheaper.

"What we'uns make? 'Low me to 'collect a li'l. Let's see, we'uns make shoes, and leather and
clothes and cloth and grinds de meal. And we'uns cures de meat, preserves de fruit and make
'lassas and brown sugar. All de harness for de mules and de hosses is make and de carts for
haulin'. Am dat all? Oh, yes, massa make peach brandy and him have he own still.

"De work am 'vided 'twixt de cullud folks and us allus have certain duties to do. I's am de
field hand and befo' I's old 'nough for to do dat, dey has me help with de chores and errands.

"Us have de cabins of logs with one room and one door and one window hole and bunks for sleepin'.
But no cookin' am done dere. It am done in de cookhouse by de cooks for all us niggers and
we'uns eats in de eatin' shed. De rations am good, plain victuals and dere plenty of it and
'bout twict a week dere somethin' for treat. Massa sho' am 'ticular 'bout feedin', 'specially
for de young'uns in de nursery. You see, dere am de nursery for sich what needs care while
dere mammies am a-workin'.

"Massa feed plenty and him 'mand plenty work. Dat cause heap of trouble on dat plantation,
'cause whippin's am given and hard ones, too. Lots of times at de end of de day I's so tired
I's couldn't speak for to stop de mule, I jus' have to lean back on de lines.

"Dis nigger never gits whupped 'cept for dis, befo' I's a field hand. Massa use me for huntin'
and use me for de gun rest. When him have de long shot I bends over and puts de hands on de
knees and massa puts his gun on my back for to git de good aim. What him kills I runs and fotches
and carries de game for him. I turns de squirrels for him and dat disaway: de squirrel allus
go to udder side from de hunter and I walks 'round de tree and de squirrel see me and go to
massa's side de tree and he gits de shot.

"All dat not so bad, but when he shoots de duck in de water and I has to fotch it out, dat
give me de worryment. De fust time he tells me to go in de pond I's skeert, powe'ful skeert.
I takes off de shirt and pants but there I stands. I steps in de water, den back 'gain, and
'gain. Massa am gittin' mad. He say, 'Swim in dere and git dat duck.' 'Yes, sar, massa,' I
says, but I won't go in dat water till massa hit me some licks. I couldn't never git use to
bein' de water dog for de ducks.

"De worst whuppin' I seed was give to Clarinda. She hits massa with de hoe 'cause he try 'fere
with her and she try stop him. She am put on de log and give 500 lashes. She am over dat log
all day and when dey takes her off, she am limp and act deadlike. For a week she am in de bunk.
Dat whuppin' cause plenty trouble and dere lots of arg'ments 'mong de white folks 'round dere.

"We has some joyments on de plantation, no parties or dancin' but we has de corn huskin' and
de nigger fights. For de corn huskin' everybody come to one place and dey gives de prize for
findin' de red ear. On massa's place de prize am brandy or you am 'lowed to kiss de gal you
calls for. While us huskin' us sing lots. No, no, I's not gwine sing any dem songs, 'cause
I's forgit and my voice sound like de bray of de mule.

"De nigger fights am more for de white folks' joyment but de slaves am 'lowed to see it. De
massas of plantations match dere niggers 'cording to size and bet on dem. Massa Finnely have
one nigger what weighs 'bout 150 pounds and him powerful good fighter and he like to fight.
None lasts long with him. Den a new niggers comes to fight him.

"Dat fight am held at night by de pine torch light. A ring am made by de folks standin' 'round
in de circle. Deys 'lowed to do anything with dey hands and head and teeth. Nothin' barred
'cept de knife and de club. Dem two niggers gits in de ring and Tom he starts quick, and dat
new nigger he starts jus' as quick. Dat 'sprise Tom and when dey comes togedder it like two
bulls--kersmash--it sounds like dat. Den it am hit and kick and bite and butt anywhere and
any place for to best de udder. De one on de bottom bites knees or anything him can do. Dat's
de way it go for half de hour.

"Fin'ly dat new nigger gits Tom in de stomach with he knee and a lick side de jaw at de same
time and down go Tom and de udder nigger jumps on him with both feets, den straddle him and
hits with right, left, right, left, right, side Tom's head. Dere Tom lay, makin' no 'sistance.
Everybody am saysin', 'Tom have met he match, him am done.' Both am bleedin' and am awful sight.
Well, dat new nigger 'laxes for to git he wind and den Tom, quick like de flash, flips him
off and jump to he feet and befo' dat new nigger could git to he feet, Tom kicks him in de
stomach, 'gain and 'gain. Dat nigger's body start to quaver and he massa say, 'Dat 'nough.'
Dat de clostest Tom ever come to gittin' whupped what I's know of.

"I becomes a runaway nigger short time after dat fight. De war am started den for 'bout a year,
or somethin' like dat, and de Fed'rals am north of us. I hears de niggers talk 'bout it, and
'bout runnin' 'way to freedom. I thinks and thinks 'bout gittin' freedom, and I's gwine run
off. Den I thinks of de patter rollers and what happen if dey cotches me off de place without
de pass. Den I thinks of some joyment sich as de corn huskin' and de fights and de singin'
and I don't know what to do. I tells you one singin' but I can't sing it:

  "'De moonlight, a shinin' star,
  De big owl hootin' in de tree;
  O, bye, my baby, ain't you gwineter sleep,
  A-rockin' on my knee?

  "'Bye, my honey baby,
  A-rockin' on my knee,
  Baby done gone to sleep,
  Owl hush hootin' in de tree.

  "'She gone to sleep, honey baby sleep,
  A-rockin' on my, a-rockin' on my knee.'

"Now, back to de freedom. One night 'bout ten niggers run away. De next day we'uns hears nothin',
so I says to myself, 'De patters don't cotch dem.' Den I makes up my mind to go and I leaves
with de chunk of meat and cornbread and am on my way, half skeert to death. I sho' has de eyes
open and de ears forward, watchin' for de patters. I steps off de road in de night, at sight
of anything, and in de day I takes to de woods. It takes me two days to make dat trip and jus'
once de patters pass me by. I am in de thicket watchin' dem and I's sho' dey gwine search dat
thicket, 'cause dey stops and am a-talkin' and lookin' my way. Dey stands dere for a li'l bit
and den one comes my way. Lawd A-mighty! Dat sho' look like de end, but dat man stop and den
look and look. Den he pick up somethin' and goes back. It am a bottle and dey all takes de
drink and rides on. I's sho' in de sweat and I don't tarry dere long.

"De Yanks am camped nere Bellfound and dere's where I gits to. 'Magine my 'sprise when I finds
all de ten runaway niggers am dere, too. Dat am on a Sunday and on de Monday, de Yanks puts
us on de freight train and we goes to Stevenson, in Alabama. Dere, us put to work buildin'
breastworks. But after de few days, I gits sent to de headquarters at Nashville, in Tennessee.

"I's water toter dere for de army and dere am no fightin' at first but 'fore long dey starts
de battle. Dat battle am a 'sperience for me. De noise am awful, jus' one steady roar of de
guns and de cannons. De window glass in Nashville am all shoke out from de shakement of de
cannons. Dere am dead mens all over de ground and lots of wounded and some cussin' and some
prayin'. Some am moanin' and dis and dat one cry for de water and, God A-mighty, I don't want
any sich 'gain. Dere am men carryin' de dead off da field, but dey can't keep up with de cannons.
I helps bury de dead and den I gits sent to Murphysboro and dere it am jus' de same.

"You knows when Abe Lincoln am shot? Well, I's in Nashville den and it am near de end of de
war and I am standin' on Broadway Street talkin' with de sergeant when up walk a man and him
shakes hands with me and says, 'I's proud to meet a brave, young fellow like you.' Dat man
am Andrew Johnson and him come to be president after Abe's dead.

"I stays in Nashville when de war am over and I marries Tennessee House in 1875 and she died
July 10th, 1936. Dat make 61 year dat we'uns am togedder. Her old missy am now livin' in Arlington
Heights, right here in Fort Worth and her name am Mallard and she come from Tennessee, too.

"I comes here from Tennessee 51 year ago and at fust I farms and den I works for de packin'
plants till dey lets me out, 'cause I's too old for to do 'nough work for dem.

"I has eight boys and three girls, dat make eleven chillen, and dey makin' scatterment all
over de country so I's alone in my old age. I has dat $17.00 de month pension what I gits from
de State.

"Dat am de end of de road.

420031

     SARAH FORD, whose age is problematical, but who says, "I's been
     here for a long time," lives in a small cottage at 3151 Clay St.,
     Houston, Texas. Born on the Kit Patton plantation near West
     Columbia, Texas, Aunt Sarah was probably about fifteen years old
     when emancipated. She had eleven children, the first born during
     the storm of 1875, at East Columbia, in which Sarah's mother and
     father both perished.

"Law me, you wants me to talk 'bout slave times, and you is cotched me 'fore I's had my coffee
dis mornin', but when you gits old as I is, talk is 'bout all you can do, so 'scuse me whilst
I puts de coffee pot on de fire and tell you what I can.

"Now, what I tells you is de truth, 'cause I only told one little lie in my whole life and
I got cotched in it and got whipped both ways. Oh, Lawd, I sho' never won't forget dat, mama
sho' was mad. Mama sends me over to Sally Ann, the cow woman, to get some milk and onions.
I never did like to borrow, so I comes back with the milk and tell mama Sally Ann say she ain't
got no onions for no Africans. Dat make mamma mad and she goes tell dat Sally Ann Somethin'.
She brung back de onions and say, 'You, Sarah, I'll larn you not to tell no lie.' She sho'
give me a hidin'.

"Now, I tells you 'bout de plantation what I's born on. You all knows where West Columbia is
at? Well, dat's right where I's born, on Massa Kit Patton's Plantation, dey calls it de Hogg
place now." (Owned by children of Gov. Will Hogg.)

"Mamma and papa belongs to Massa Kit and mama born there, too. Folks called her 'Little Jane,'
'cause she's no bigger'n nothing.

"Papa's name was Mike and he's a tanner and he come from Tennessee and sold to Massa Kit by
a nigger trader. He wasn't all black, he was part Indian. I heared him say what tribe, but
I can't 'lect now. When I's growed mama tells me lots of things. She say de white folks don't
let de slaves what works in de field marry none, dey jus' puts a man and breedin' woman together
like mules. Iffen the women don't like the man it don't make no diff'rence, she better go or
dey gives her a hidin'.

"Massa Kit has two brothers, Massa Charles and Massa Matt, what lives at West Columbia. Massa
Kit on one side Varney's Creek and Massa Charles on de other side. Massa Kit have a African
woman from Kentucky for he wife, and dat's de truth. I ain't sayin' iffen she a real wife or
not, but all de slaves has to call her 'Miss Rachel.' But iffen a bird fly up in de sky it
mus' come down sometime, and Rachel jus' like dat bird, 'cause Massa Kit go crazy and die and
Massa Charles take over de plantation and he takes Rachel and puts her to work in de field.
But she don't stay in de field long, 'cause Massa Charles puts her in a house by herself and
she don't work no more.

"If us gits sick us call Mammy Judy. She de cook and iffen you puts a sugar barrel 'long side
her and puts a face on dat barrel, you sho' can't tell it from her, she so round and fat. Iffen
us git real sick dey calls de doctor, but iffen it a misery in de stomach or jus' de flux,
Mammy Judy fix up some burr vine tea or horsemint tea. Dey de male burr vine and de female
burr vine and does a woman or gal git de misery, dey gives 'em de female tea, and does a man,
or boy chile git it, dey gives him de male vine tea.

"Scuse me while I pours me some coffee. It sho' do fortify me. You know what us drink for coffee
in slave times? Parched meal, and it purty good iffen you know's how.

"Us don't have much singin' on our place, 'cepting at church on Sunday. Law me, de folks what
works in de fields feels more like cryin' at night. Us chillen used to sing dis:

  "'Where you goin', buzzard,
  Where you gwine to go?
    I's goin' down to new ground,
  For to hunt Jim Crow.'

"I guess Massa Charles, what taken us when Massa Kit die, was 'bout de same as all white folks
what owned slaves, some good and some bad. We has plenty to eat--more'n I has now--and plenty
clothes and shoes. But de overseer was Uncle Big Jake, what's black like de rest of us, but
he so mean I 'spect de devil done make him overseer down below long time ago. Dat de bad part
of Massa Charles, 'cause he lets Uncle Jake whip de slaves so much dat some like my papa what
had spirit was all de time runnin' 'way. And even does your stomach be full, and does you have
plenty clothes, dat bullwhip on your bare hide make you forgit de good part, and dat's de truth.

"Uncle Big Jake sho' work de slaves from early mornin' till night. When you is in de field
you better not lag none. When its fallin' weather de hands is put to work fixin' dis and dat.
De woman what has li'l chillen don't have to work so hard. Dey works 'round de sugar house
and come 11 o'clock dey quits and cares for de babies till 1 o'clock, and den works till 3
o'clock and quits.

"Massa Charles have a arbor and dat's where we has preachin'. One day old Uncle Law preachin'
and he say, 'De Lawd make everyone to come in unity and on de level, both white and black.'
When Massa Charles hears 'bout it, he don't like it none, and de next mornin' old Uncle Jake
git Uncle Law and put him out in de field with de rest.

"Massa Charles run dat plantation jus' like a factory. Uncle Cip was sugar man, my papa tanner
and Uncle John Austin, what have a wooden leg, am shoemaker and make de shoes with de brass
toes. Law me, dey heaps of things go on in slave time what won't go on no more, 'cause de bright
light come and it ain't dark no more for us black folks. Iffen a nigger run away and dey cotch
him, or does he come back 'cause he hongry, I seed Uncle Jake stretch him out on de ground
and tie he hands and feet to posts so he can't move none. Den he git de piece of iron what
he call de 'slut' and what is like a block of wood with little holes in it, and fill de holes
up with tallow and put dat iron in de fire till de grease sizzlin' hot and hold it over de
pore nigger's back and let dat hot grease drap on he hide. Den he take de bullwhip and whip
up and down, and after all dat throw de pore nigger in de stockhouse and chain him up a couple
days with nothin' to eat. My papa carry de grease scars on he back till he die.

"Massa Charles and Uncle Jake don't like papa, 'cause he ain't so black, and he had spirit,
'cause he part Indian. Do somethin' go wrong and Uncle Big Jake say he gwine to give papa de
whippin', he runs off. One time he gone a whole year and he sho' look like a monkey when he
gits back, with de hair standin' straight on he head and he face. Papa was mighty good to mama
and me and dat de only reason he ever come back from runnin' 'way, to see us. He knowed he'd
git a whippin' but he come anyway. Dey never could cotch papa when he run 'way, 'cause he part
Indian. Massa Charles even gits old Nigger Kelly what lives over to Sandy Point to track papa
with he dogs, but papa wade in water and dey can't track him.

"Dey knows papa is de best tanner 'round dat part de country, so dey doesn't sell him off de
place. I 'lect papa sayin' dere one place special where he hide, some German folks, de name
Ebbling, I think. While he hides dere, he tans hides on de sly like and dey feeds him, and
lots of mornin's when us open de cabin door on a shelf jus' 'bove is food for mama and me,
and sometime store clothes. No one ain't see papa, but dere it is. One time he brung us dresses,
and Uncle Big Jake heered 'bout it and he sho' mad 'cause he can't cotch papa, and he say to
mama he gwine to whip her 'less she tell him where papa is. Mama say, 'Fore God, Uncle Jake,
I don't know, 'cause I ain't seed him since he run 'way,' and jus' den papa come 'round de
corner of de house. He save mama from de whippin' but papa got de hot grease drapped on him
like I told you Uncle Big Jake did, and got put in de stockhouse with shackles on him, and
kep' dere three days, and while he in dere mama has de goin' down pains and my sister, Rachel,
is born.

"When freedom come, I didn't know what dat was. I 'lect Uncle Charley Burns what drive de buggy
for Massa Charles, come runnin' out in de yard and holler, 'Everybody free, everybody free,'
and purty soon sojers comes and de captain reads a 'mation. And, Law me, dat one time Massa
Charley can't open he mouth, 'cause de captain tell him to shut up, dat he'd do de talkin'.
Den de captain say, 'I come to tell you de slaves is free and you don't have to call nobody
master no more.' Well, us jus' mill 'round like cattle do. Massa Charley say iffen us wants
to stay he'll pay us, all 'cepting my papa. He say, 'You can't stay here, 'cause you is a bad
'fluence.'

"Papa left but come back with a wagon and mules what he borrows and loads mama and my sister
and me in and us go to East Columbia on de Brazos river and settles down. Dey hires me out
and us have our own patch, too, and dat de fust time I ever seed any money. Papa builds a cabin
and a corn crib and us sho' happy, 'cause de bright light done come and dey no more whippin's.

"One night us jus' finish eatin supper and someone holler 'Hello.' You know who it was holler?
Old Uncle Big Jake. De black folks all hated him so dey wouldn't have no truck with him and
he ask my papa could he stay. Papa didn't like him none, 'cause he done treat papa so bad,
but de old devil jus' beg so hard papa takes him out to de corn crib and fix a place for him
and he stay most a month till he taken sick and died.

"I stays with papa and mama till I marries Wes Ford and I shows you how de Lawd done give and
take away. Wes and I has a cabin by ourselves near papa's and I is jus' 'bout to have my first
baby. De wind start blowin' and it git harder and harder and right when its de worst de baby
comes. Dat in '75 and whilst I havin' my baby, de wind tear de cabin where mama and papa is
to pieces and kilt 'em. My sister Rachel was with me so she wasn't kilt.

"Well, I can't complain, 'cause de Lawd sho' been good to me. Wes and all 'cept four my chillen
is dead now. I has six boys and five gals. But de ones what is alive is pore like dey mammy.
But I praises de Lawd 'cause de bright light am turned on.

420153

     MILLIE FORWARD, about 95 years old, was born a slave of Jason
     Forward, in Jasper, Texas. She has spent her entire life in that
     vicinity, and now lives in Jasper with her son, Joe McRay. Millie
     has been totally blind for fifteen years and is very deaf.

"Us used to live 'bout four mile east of Jasper, on de Newton Highway. I reckon I's 'bout 95
year old and I thank de Lawd I's been spared dis long. Some my old friends say I's 100, and
maybe I is. I feels like it.

"I's born in Alabama and mammy have jus' got up when de white folks brung us out west. Pappy's
name Jim Forward and mammy name Mary. Dey lef' pappy in Alabama, 'cause he 'long to 'nother massa.

"My massa name Jason Forward and he own a lot of slaves. I work as housegirl and wait on de
white women. Missus name am Sarah Ann Forward. Massa Jason he own de fust drugstore in Jasper.
I have de sister, Susan, and de brudder, Tom. Massa and missus, dey treats us jes' like dey
us pappy and mammy.

"Us have more to eat den dan us do now. Us never was knowed to be without meat, 'cause massa
raise plenty pigs. Us have fish and possum and coon and deer and everything. Us have biscuits
and cake, too, but us drink bran meal coffee. Massa and missus has no chillen and dey give
us feast and have biscuits and cake. Befo' Christmas massa go to town and buy all kinds candy
and toys and say, 'Millie, you go out on de gallery and holler and tell Santy not forgit fill
your stockin' tonight.' I holler loud as I can and nex' mornin' my stockin' chock full.

"After freedom come, us stays right on with massa and missus. Massa teach school for us at
night. Us learn A B C and how spell cat and dog and nigger. Den one day he git cross and scold
us and us didn't go back to school no more. Us didn't have sense 'nough to know he tryin' do
us good.

"Den missus git sick, but she dat good, dat when one cullud man git drown in de 'river she
sit up in bed and make he shroud and massa feed de whole crowd de two days dey findin' de body.
After him bury, missus git worse and say, 'Jason, pull down de blind, de light am so bright
it hurt my eyes.' Den a big, white crane come light on de chimney and us chillen throw rocks
at him, but he jes' shake he head and ruffle he feathers and still sit dere. I tells you dat
de light of Heaven shinin' on missus and iffen ever a woman went dere, she did. She de bes'
white woman I ever see. De day she die, I cry all day.

"When de sojers go to de war, every man take a slave to wait on him and take care he camp and
cook. After de end of war, when de sojers gwine home, don't know how many Yankees pass through
Jasper, but it sound like de roar of a storm comin'. Every officer have he wife ridin' right
by he side. Dey wives come to go home with dem. Dey thousands bluecoats, ridin' two abreas'.

"When I young lady, dey have tourn'ments at Adrian Ryall place west of Jasper and de one what
cotch de hoss bridle de most times, git crown queen. I gits to be queen every time. I looks
like a queen now, doesn't I?

"After us git free a long time, me and Susan and Tom us work hard and buy us de black land
farm. But de deed git' burnt up and us didn't know how to git 'nother deed, and a young nigger
call McRay, he come foolin' 'round me and makin' love to me. He find out us don't have no deed
no more and he claim dat farm and take it 'way from us and leave me with li'l baby boy what
I names Joe Millie McRay. But never 'gain. I never marries.

"Us done work in de cotton field and wash many a long day to pay for dat farm. But dat boy
growed to be a good man and I live with him and he wife now. And he boy, Bob, am better still.
He jes' work so hard and he buy fine li'l home in Jasper and marry de bes' gal, mos' white.
Dey have nice fur'ture and gas and lights and everything.

"Dey treat us purty good in slavery days but I'd rather be free, but it purty hard to be blind
so long and most deaf, too, but I thank de Lawd I's not sufferin'. I gits de pension of 'leven
dollars a month. I's so old I can't 'member much, only sometime, things comes to me I thought
I forgot long time ago. I's had it purty hard to pay for de farm and den have it stoled from
me when I's old and blind, but de good Lawd, he know all 'bout it and we all got to stand 'fore
de jedgment some day soon.

420051

     LOUIS FOWLER, 84, was born a slave to Robert Beaver, in Macon Co.,
     Georgia. Fowler did not take his father's name, but that of his
     stepfather, J. Fowler. After he was freed, Louis farmed for several
     years, then worked in packing plants in Fort Worth, Tex. He lives
     at 2706 Holland St., Fort Worth.

"Dis cullud person am 84 years old and I's born on de plantation of Massa Robert Beaver, in
old Georgia. He owned my mammy and 'bout 50 slaves. Now, 'bout my pappy, I lets you judge.
Look at my hair. De color am red, ain't it? My beard am red and my eyes is brown and my skin
am light yellow. Now, who does you think my pappy was? You don't know, of course, but I knows,
'cause on dat plantation am a man dat am over six feet tall and his hair as red as a brick.

"My mammy am married to a man named Fowler and he am owned by Massa Jack Fowler, on de place
next to ours. Our place am middlin' big and fixed first class. He has first-class quarter for
us cullud folks. De cabins am two and some three rooms and dey all built of logs and chinked
with a piece of wood and daubed with dirt to fill de cracks. De way we'uns fix dat dirt am
take de clay or gumbo which am sticky when it am wet. Dat dirt am soaked with water till it
stick together and den hay or straw am mixed with it. When sich mud am daubed in de cracks
it stay and dem cabins am sho' windproof and warm.

"De treatment am good and Massa Beaver have de choice name 'mong he neighbors for bein' good
to he niggers. No work on Sunday, no work on Saturday evenin's. Dem times was for de cullud
folks to do for demselves. Massa Beaver have it fixed disaway, he 'low each family a piece
of groun' and dey can raise what dey likes.

"De rations am measure out and de massa allus 'low plenty of meat and we has wheat flour. Mos'
de niggers don't have wheat flour, but massa raises de wheat and we gits it. We kin have 'lasses
and brown sugar but one thing we'uns has to watch am de waste, 'cause massa won't stand for dat.

"De meat am cured with de hick'ry wood smoke and if you could git jus' one taste dat ham and
bacon you'd never eat none of this nowadays meat. It sho' have a dif'rent taste.

"We makes de cloth and de wool and I could card and spin and weave 'fore I's big 'nough to
work in de field. My mammy larned me to help her. We makes dye from de bark of walnut and de
cherry and red oak trees, and some from berries but what dey is I forgit. Iffen we'uns wants
clay red, we buries de cloth in red clay for a week and it takes on de color. Den we soaks
de cloth in cold salt water and it stays colored.

"Massa builded a log church house for we'uns cullud folks for to go to God. Dat nigger named
Allen Beaver am de preacherman and de leader in all de parties, 'cause him can play de fiddle.
No, Allen am not educated, but can he preach a pow'ful sermon. O, Lawd! He am inspire from
de Lawd and he preached from his heartfelt.

"Dere am only one time dat a nigger gits whupped on dat plantation and dat am not given by
massa but by dem patterrollers. Massa don't gin'rally 'low dem patterrollers whup on his place,
and all de niggers from round dere allus run from de patterrollers onto massa's land and den
dey safe. But in dis 'ticlar case, massa make de 'ception.

"'Twas nigger Jack what dey chases home and he gits under de cabin and 'fused to come out.
Massa say, 'In dis case I gwine make 'ception, 'cause dat Jack he am too unreas'able. He allus
chasin' after some nigger wench and not satisfied with de pass I give. Give him 25 lashes but
don't draw de blood or leave de marks.'

"Well, sar, it am de great sight to see Jack git dat whuppin'. Him am skeert, but dey ain't
hurtin' him bad. Massa make him come out and dey tie him to a post and he starts to bawl and
beller befo' a lick am struck. Say! Him beg like a good fellow. It am, 'Oh, massa, massa, Oh,
massa, have mercy, don't let 'em whup me. Massa, I won't go off any more.' De patterrollers
gives him a lick and Jack lets out a yell dat sounds like a mule bray and twice as loud.

"Dere used to be a patterroller song what sent like dis:

  "Up 'de hill and down de holler
  White man cotch nigger by de collar
  Dat nigger run and dat nigger flew,
  Dat nigger tore he shirt in two.'

"Well, while dey's whuppin' dat nigger, Jack, he couldn't run and he couldn't tear he shirt
in two, but he holler till he tear he mouth in two. Jack say he never go off without de pass
'gain and he kept he word, too.

"De big doin's am on Christmas Day and de massa have present for each cullud person. Dey am
little things and I laughs when I thinks of them, but de cullud folks sho' 'joy dem and it
show massa's heart am right. For de chillen it am candy and for de women, a pin or sich, and
for de men, a knife or sich. On dat day, preacherman Allen sho' have de full heart, and he
preach and preach.

"But de war starts and it not so happy on massa's place and 'fore long he two sons goes to
dat war. De massa show worryment 'cause dey fightin' here and dere and den come de day when
dey fight right nex' to de massa's place. It am in de field next to we'uns and de two boys,
young Charley and he brother, Bob, am in de fight. It am for sev'ral days de army am a-marchin'
to de field and gittin' ready for de battle. Durin' dat time, de two boys comes home for a
spell every day. Early one mornin' de shootin' starts and it am not much at first but it ain't
long till it am a steady thunder and it keep up all day.

"De missy am walkin' in de yard and den go in de house and out 'gain. She am a-twistin' her
hands and cryin'. She keeps sayin', 'Dey sho' gits kilt, my poor babies.' De massa talk to
her to quiet her. Dat help me, too, 'cause I sho' skeert. Nobody do much work dat day, but
stand round with quiverments and when dey talk, dey voice quiver. Why, even de buildin's quivered.
Every once in de while, dere am an extry roar. Dat de cannon and every time I heered it, I
jumps. I's sent to git de eggs and have 'bout five dozen in de basket, holdin' it in front
of me with my two hands. All a sudden, one of dem extry shoots comes and down dis nigger kid
go and my head hits into de basket. Dere I is, eggs oozin' all round me and I so skeert and
fussed up I jus' lays and kicks. I wants to scream but I can't for de eggs in my mouth. To
dis day I thinks of dat battle every time I eats eggs.

"De nex' day after de battle am over, mos' us cullud folks goes to de field. Some of 'em buries
de dead, and I hears 'em tell how in de low places de blood stand like water and de bodies
all shoot to pieces.

"Massa's sons not kilt and am de missy glad! She have allus colored folks come to de house
and make us kneel down and she thank de Lawd for savin' her sons. Dey even go to other places
and fights, but dey comes home after de war am over.

"Surrender come and massa tells us we can stay or go and if we stay he pay us wages or we works
on shares. Some go and some stay. Mammy and me goes to de Fowler place with my stepfather and
we share crops for three year.

"I stays with dem till I's 18 and den I gits married. Dat in 1871 and my wife died in 1928
and we'uns have four chillen. All dat time I's farmed till 'bout 30 year ago when I works in
de packin' plant here in Fort Worth. I works dere 20 years and den dey say I's too old and
since den I works at de odd jobs till 'bout five years ago.

"Since I's quit work at de packin' plant it am hard for dis cullud person. I soon uses up my
savin's and den I's gone hongry plenty times. My chillen am old and dey havin' de hard time,
too. My friends helps me a little and I gits de pension, but it am only $3.00 a month and,
course, dat ain't 'nough.

"After all dese years I's worked and 'haved, I never thinks I comes to where I couldn't git
'nough to eat. I's am wishful for de Lawd to call me to jedgment.

420307

     CHRIS FRANKLIN, 82, was born a slave of Judge Robert J. Looney, in
     Bossier Parish, Louisiana. Chris now lives in Beaumont, Texas, and
     supports himself by gardening and yard work. He is thrifty and owns
     his own home.

"Yes, suh, dis is Chris Franklin. I signs my name C.C. Franklin, dat for Christopher Columbus
Franklin. I's born in Bossier Parish, up in Louisiana, jes' twenty-five miles de other side
of Shreveport. I's born dere in 1855, on Christmas Day, but I's raise up in Caddo Parish. Old
massa move over dere when I 'bout a year old.

"Old massa name Robert J. Looney and he a jedge and lawyer. He have a boy name R.J., Jr., but
I's talkin' 'bout de old head, de old 'riginal. De missy, her name Lettie Looney. He weren't
no farmer, jes' truck farm to raise de livin' for he household and slaves. He didn't have over
a half dozen growed up slaves. Course, dey rears a lot of young'uns.

"My pappy's name Solomon Lawson. He 'long to Jedge Lawson, what live near us. When freedom
come, he done take de name Sol Franklin, what he say am he pappy's name.

"Jedge Looney have de ord'nary frame house. Dey 'bout six, seven rooms in it, all under one
roof. De dinin' room and cook room wasn't built off to deyself, like mos' big houses. It was
a raise house, raise up on high pillars and dey could drive a hoss and buggy under it. He live
on de Fairview Road.

"Us slaves all live in one big slave cabin, built out of plank. It built sort-a like de 'partment
house. Dey four rooms and each fam'ly have one room. Dey have a lamp and a candle for our comfort.
It jes' a li'l, ord'nary brass lamp. Dey used to make 'em out of wax and tallow. Dey raise
dere own bees and when dey rob de bee gums dey strain de honey and melt de wax with tallow
to make it firmer. Dey tie one end de wick on de stick 'cross de mold and put in de melted
wax and tallow.

"Dey have a table and benches, too. But a chair de rare thing in a cabin. Dey make some with
de split hick'ry or rawhide bottom. Dey have hay mattress. De tickin' am rice sacks. Us have
mud chimney. Dey fix sticks like de ladder and mix mud and moss and grass in what dey calls
'cats'. Dey have rock backs, and, man, us have a sho' 'nough fire in 'em. Put a stick long
as me and big as a porch post in dat fireplace. In cold weather dat last all day and all night.

"When de parents workin' in de field, somebody look after de chillen. De nannies come in and
nuss dem when time come. De white folks never put on 'strictions on de chillen till dey twelve,
fourteen years old. Dey all wear de straight-cut slip. Dey give de li'l gals de slip dress
and li'l panties. In wintertime dey give de boy's de li'l coat and pants and shoes, but no
drawers or unnerwear. Dey give dem hard russet shoes in wintertime. Dey have brass toes. Dey
plenty dur'ble. In summertime us didn't see no shoe.

"Massa Looney jes' as fine de man as ever make tracks. Christmas time come, he give 'em a few
dollars and say go to the store and buy what us want. He give all de li'l nigger chillen gif's,
jes' like he own. He git de jug of whiskey and plenty eggs and make de big eggnog for everybody.
He treat us cullud folks jes' like he treat he own fam'ly. He never take no liquor 'cept at
Christmas. He give us lots to eat at Christmas, too.

"Sometime old missy come out and call all de li'l niggers in de house to play with her chillen.
When us eat us have de tin plate and cup. Dey give us plenty milk and butter and 'taters and
sich. Us all set on de floor and make 'way with dem rations.

"Dey had a li'l church house for de niggers and preachin' in de afternoon, and on into de night
lots of times. Dey have de cullud preacher. He couldn't read. He jes' preach from nat'ral wit
and what he larn from white folks. De whole outfit profess to be Baptis'.

"De marryin' business go through by what massa say. De fellow git de massa's consen'. Massa
mos'ly say yes without waitin', 'cause marryin' mean more niggers for him comin' on. He git
de jedge or preacher to marry dem. Iffen de man live on one plantation and de gal on 'nother,
he have to git de pass to go see her. Dat so de patterrollers not git him.

"De slaves used to have balls and frolics in dey cabins. But iffen dey go to de frolic on 'nother
plantation dey git de pass. Dat so dey can cotch runaway niggers. I never heared of stealin'
niggers, 'cept dis-a-way. Sometime de runaway nigger git fifty or hundred miles away and show
up dere as de stray slave. Dat massa where he show up take care of him so long, den lay claim
to him. Dat call harborin' de nigger.

"Dey lots of places where de young massas has heirs by nigger gals. Dey sell dem jes' like
other slaves. Dat purty common. It seem like de white women don't mind. Dey didn't 'ject, 'cause
dat mean more slaves.

"Sometimes de white folks has de big deer drive. Dem and de niggers go down in de bottoms to
drive deers up. Dey rid big, fine hosses and start de deers runnin'. Dey raise dere own dogs.
Massa sho' careful 'bout he hounds. He train dem good and treat dem good, too. He have somethin'
cook reg'lar for dem. Dey hunts foxes and wolves and plenty dem kinds varmints.

"I seen sojers' by de thousands. When 'mancipation come out massa come to de back door with
de paper and say, 'Yous free.' He furnish dem with all dey needs and give dem part de crop.
He 'vide up de pig litters and such 'mongst dem. He give dem de start. Den after two, three
year he commence takin' out for dere food and boots and clothes and sich.

"De night de pusson die dey has de wake and sing and pray all night long. Dey all very 'ligious
in dere profession. Dey knock off all work so de slaves can go to de buryin'.

"De white folks 'low dem to have de frolic with de fiddle or banjo or windjammer. Dey dances
out on de grass, forty or fifty niggers, and dem big gals nineteen year old git out dere barefoot
as de goose. It jes' de habit of de times, 'cause dey all have shoes. Sometimes dey call de
jig dance and some of dem sho' dance it, too. De prompter call, 'All git ready.' Den he holler,
'All balance,' and den he sing out, 'Swing you pardner,' and dey does it. Den he say, 'First
man head off to de right,' and dere dey goes. Or he say, 'All promenade,' and dey goes in de
circle. One thing dey calls, 'Bird in de Cage.' Three joins hands round de gal in de middle,
and dance round her, and den she git out and her pardner git in de center and dey dance dat
way awhile.

"After freedom dey have de log cabin schoolhouse. De first teacher was de cullud women name
Mary Chapman. I near wore out dat old blueblack speller tryin' to larn A B C's.

"I leaves Caddo Parish in 1877 for Galveston, and leaves dere on de four mast schooner for
Leesburg and up de Calcasieu River. Den I goes to de Cameron Parish and in 1879 I comes to
Beaumont. I marries Mandy Watson in 1882 and she died in 1932. Us never have no chillen but
'dopts two. Us marry in de hotel dinin'-room, 'cause I's workin' for de hotel man, J.B. Goodhue.
De Rev. Elder Venable, what am da old cullud preacher, marries us. I didn't git marry like
in slavery time, I's got a great big marriage certif'cate hangin' on de wall of my house.

"I 'longs to several lodges, de Knights of Labor and de Knights of Honor and de Pilgrims. I
never hold no office. I's jes' de bench member. I's a member of de Live Lake Missionary Baptist
Church.

"I's got de big house of my own, on de corner of Roberts Avenue and San Antonio street. After
my wife die, I gits de man to come and live dere with me. Dat's all I knows.

420002

     ORELIA ALEXIE FRANKS was born on the plantation of Valerian Martin,
     near Opelousas, Louisiana. She does not know her age, but thinks
     she is near ninety. Her voice has the musical accent of the French
     Negro. She has lived in Beaumont, Texas, many years.

"I's born on Mr. George Washington's birthday', the twenty-second of February but I don't know
what year. My old massa was Valerian Martin and he come from foreign country. He come from
Canada and he Canada French. He wife name Malite Guidry. Old massa a good Catholic and he taken
all the li'l slave chillen to be christen. Oh, he's a Christian massa and I used to be a Catholic
but now I's a Apostolic, but I's christen in St. Johns Catholic Church, what am close to Lafayette,
where I's born.

"My pa name Alexis Franks and he was American and Creole. My ma name Fanire Martin and I's
raise where everybody talk French. I talks American but I talks French goodest.

"Old massa he big cane and cotton farmer and have big plantation and raise everything, and
us all well treat. Dey feed us right, too. Raise big hawg in de pen and raise lots of beef.
All jes' for to feed he cullud folks.

"Us quarters out behind de big house and old massa come round through de quarters every mornin'
and see how us niggers is. If us sick he call nuss. She old slavery woman. She come look at
'em. If dey bad sick dey send for de doctor. Us house all log house. Dey all dab with dirt
'tween de logs. Dey have dirt chimney make out of sticks and dab with mud. Dey

"Lots of time we eat coosh-coosh. Dat make out of meal and water. You bile de water and salt
it, den put in de cornmeal and stir it and bile it. Den you puts milk or clabber or syrup on
it and eat it.

"Old massa have de graveyard a purpose to bury de cullud folks in. Dey have cullud preacher.
Dey have funeral in de graveyard. Dat nigger preacher he a Mef'dist.

"Old massa son-in-law, he overseer. He 'low nobody to beat de slaves. Us li'l ones git spank
when we bad. Dey put us 'cross de knee and spank us where dey allus spank chillen.

"Christmas time dey give big dinner. Dey give all de old men whiskey. Everybody have big time.

"Dey make lots of sugar. After dey finish cookin' de sugar dey draw off what left from de pots
and give it to us chillen. Us have candy pullin'.

"Dey weave dey own cloth. Us have good clothes. Dey weave de cloth for make mattress and stuff
'em with moss. Massa sho' believe to serve he niggers good. I see old massa when he die. Us
see old folks cry and us cry, too. Dey have de priest and burn de candles. Us sho' miss old massa.

"I see lots of sojers. Dey so many like hair on your head. Dey Yankees. Dey call 'em bluejackets.
Dey a fight up near massa's house. Us climb in tree for to see. Us hear bullets go 'zoom' through
de air 'round dat tree but us didn't know it was bullets. A man rid up on a hoss and tell massa
to git us pickaninnies out dat tree or dey git kilt. De Yankees have dat battle and den sot
us niggers free.

"Old massa, he de kind man what let de niggers have dey prayer-meetin'. He give 'em a big cabin
for dat. Shout? Yes, Lawd! Sing like dis:

  "'Mourner, fare you well,
  Gawd 'Mighty bless you,
  Till we meets again.'

"Us sings 'nother song:

  "'Sinner blind,
  Johnnie, can't you ride no more?
  Sinner blind.
  Your feets may be slippin'
  Your soul git lost.
  Johnnie, can't you ride no more?
  Yes, Lawd,
  Day by day you can't see,
  Johnnie, can't you ride no more?
  Yes, Lawd.'"

420136

     ROSANNA FRAZIER was born a slave on the Frazier plantation in
     Mississippi. She does not remember her masters given name, nor does
     she know her age, although from her memories of various events
     during the Civil War, she believes she is close to ninety, at
     least. Rosanna is blind and bedridden, and is cared for by friends
     in a little house in Pear Orchard Negro Settlement, in Beaumont,
     Texas.

"My mammy was a freeborn woman named Viny Frazier and she come from a free country. She was
on her way to school when dey stoled her, when she de young gal. De spec'lator gang stoled
her and brung her and sold her in Red River, in Mississippi. Missy Mary, she buy her. Missy
Mary married den to one man named Pool and she have two boys call Josh and Bill. After dat
man die, she marry Marse Frazier.

"My daddy name Jerry Durden and after I's born they brings us all to Texas, but my daddy belong
to de Neylands, so we loses him. My white folks moves to a big plantation close to Woodville,
in Tyler County, and Marse Frazier have de store and plenty of stock. He come first from Georgia.

"All us little chillen, black and white, play togedder and Marse Frazier, he raise us. His
chillen call Sis and Texana and Robert and John. Marse Frazier he treat us nice and de other
white folks calls us 'free niggers', and wouldn't 'low us on dere places. Dey 'fraid dere niggers
git dissatisfy with dey own treatment. Sho's you born, iffen one of us git round dem plantations,
dey jus' cut us to pieces with de whip. Some of dem white folks sho' was mean, and dey work
de niggers all day in de sun and cut dem with de whip, and sho' done 'em up bad. Dat on other
places, not on ours.

"Marse Frazier, he didn't work us too hard and give Saturday and Sunday off. He's all right
and give good food. People sho' would rare off from him, 'cause he too good. He was de Methodist
preacher and furnish us church. Sometimes he has camp meeting and dey cook out doors with de
skillicks. Sometimes he has corn shucking time and we has hawg meat and meal bread and whiskey
and eggnog and chicken.

"De books he brung us didn't do us no good, 'cause us wouldn't larn nothin'. Us too busy playin'
and huntin' good berries in de wood, de huckleberry and grape and muscadine and chinquapins.
All dis time de war was fixin' and I seed two, three soldiers round spyin'. When peace 'clared
missy's two boys come back from de war. We stays with Marse Frazier two year and den I goes
and gits married to de man call Baker.

"I done been blind like dis over 40 year. One Sunday I stay all night with a man and he wife
and I was workin' as woodchopper on de Santa Fe route up Beaumont to Tyler County. After us
git up and I starts 'way, I ain't gone but 15, 16 yard when I hear somethin' say, 'Rose, you
done somethin' you ain't ought.' I say, 'No, Lawd, no.' Den de voice say, 'Somethin' gwine
happen to you,' and de next mornin' I's blind as de bat and I ain't never seed since.

"Some try tell me snow or sweat or smoke de reason. Dat ain't de reason. Dey a old, old, slowfooted
somethin' from Louisiana and dey say he de conjure man, one dem old hoodoo niggers. He git
mad at me de last plum-ripenin' time and he make up powdered rattlesnake dust and pass dat
through my hair and I sho' ain't seed no more.

"Dat not de onliest thing dem old conjure men do. Dey powder up de rattle offen de snake and
tie it up in de little old rag bag and dey do devilment with it. Day git old scorpion and make
bad medicine. Dey git dirt out de graveyard and dat dirt, after dey speak on it, would make
you go crazy.

"When dey wants conjure you, dey sneak round and git de hair combin' or de finger or toenail,
or anything natural 'bout your body, and works de hoodoo on it.

"Dey make de straw man or de clay man and dey puts de pin in he leg and you leg gwineter git
hurt or sore jus' where dey puts de pin. Iffen dey puts de pin through de heart you gwineter
die and ain't nothin' kin save you.

"Dey make de charm to wear round de neck or de ankle and dey make de love powder, too, out
de love vine, what grow in de woods. Dey biles de leaves and powders 'em. Dey sho' works, I
done try 'em.

420097

     PRISCILLA GIBSON is not sure of her age, but thinks she was born
     about 1856, in Smith County, Mississippi, to Mary Puckett and her
     Indian husband. They belonged to Jesse Puckett, who owned a
     plantation on the Strong River. Priscilla now lives in Jasper,
     Texas.

"Priscilla Gibson is my name, and I's bo'n in Smith County, way over in Mis'ippi, sometime
befo' de War. I figger it was 'bout 1856, 'cause I's old enough to climb de fence and watch
dem musterin' in de troops when de war began. Dey tol' me I's nine year ole when de War close,
but dey ain' sure of dat, even. My neighbor, Uncle Bud Adams, he 83, and I's clippin' close
at he heels.

"Mammy's name was Mary Puckett, but I never seed my father as I knows of. Don' know if he was
a whole Injun or part white man. Never seed but one brother and his name was Jake. Dey took
him to de War with de white boys, to cook and min' de camp and he took pneumony and die.

"Massa's name was Jesse Puckett, and Missus' name Mis' Katie. Dey hab big fam'ly and dey live
in a big wooden-beam house with a big up-stair'. De house was right on de highway from Raleigh
to Brandon, with de Strong River jis' below us. Dey took in and 'commadated travelers 'cause
dey warn' hotels den.

"Massa have hunner's of acres. You could walk all day and you never git offen his lan'. An'
he have gran' furniture and other things in de house. I kin remember dem, 'cause I use' to
he'p 'round de house, run errands and fan Mis' Katie and sich. I 'members chairs with silk
coverin's on 'em and dere was de gran' lights, big lamps with de roses on de shades. And eve'ywhere
de floors with rugs and de rugs was pretty, dey wasn' like dese thin rugs you sees nowadays.
No, ma'am, dey has big flowers on 'em and de feets sinks in 'em. I useter lie down on one of
dem rugs in Mis' Katie's room when she's asleep and I kin stop fannin.'

"Massa Puckett was tol'able good to de slaves. We has clothes made of homespun what de nigger
women weaved, and de little boys wo' long-tail shirts, with no pants till they's grown. Massa
raised sheep and dey make us wool clothes for winter, but we has no shoes.

"De white folks didn' larn us read and write but dey was good to us 'cep' when some niggers
try to run away and den dey whips 'em hard. We has plenty to eat and has prayer meetin's with
singin' and shoutin', and we chilluns played marbles and jump de rope.

"After freedom come all lef' but me 'cause Missus say she have me boun' to her till I git my
age. But I's res'less one night and my sister, Georgy Ann, come see me, and I run off with
her, but dey never comes after me. I was scart dey would, 'cause I 'membered 'bout our neighbor,
ole Means, and his slave, Sylvia, and she run away and was in de woods, and he'd git on de
hoss, take de dogs and set 'em on her, and let dem bite her and tear her clothes.

420303

     GABRIEL GILBERT was born in slavery on the plantation of Belizare
     Brassard, in New Iberia Parish, Louisiana. He does not know his
     age, but appears to be about eighty. He has lived in Beaumont,
     Texas, for sixteen years.

"My old massa was Belizare Broussard. He was my mom's massa. He had a big log house what he
live in. De places 'tween de logs was fill with dirt. De quarters de slaves live in was make
out of dirt. Dey put up posties in de ground and bore holes in de posts and put in pickets
'cross from one post to the other. Den dey build up de sides with mud. De floor and everything
was dirt. Dey had a schoolhouse built for de white chillen de same way. De cullud chillen didn't
have no school.

"Dem was warm healthy houses us grew up in. Dey used to raise better men den in dem houses
dan now. My pa name was Joseph Gilbert. He old massa was Belleau Prince.

"I didn't know what a store was when I was growin' up. Us didn't have store things like now.
Us had wooden pan and spoon dem times. I never see no iron plow dem days. Nothin' was iron
on de plow 'cept de share. I tell dese youngsters, 'You in hebben now from de time I come up.'
When a man die dem days, dey use de ox cart to carry de corpse.

"Massa have 'bout four hundred acres and lots of slaves. He raise sugar cane. He have a mill
and make brown sugar. He raise cotton and corn, too. He have plenty stock on de place. He give
us plenty to eat. He was a nice man. He wasn't brutish. He treat he slaves like hisself. I
never 'member see him whip nobody. He didn't 'low no ill treatment. All de folks round he place
say he niggers ruint and spoiled.

"De li'l white folks and nigger folks jus' play round like brudder and sister and us all eat
at de white table. I slep' in de white folks house, too. My godfather and godmother was rich
white folks. I still Cath'lic.

"I seed sojers but I too li'l to know nothin' 'bout dem. Dey didn't worry me a-tall. I didn't
git close to de battle.

"My mammy weave cloth out cotton and wool. I 'member de loom. It go 'boom-boom-boom.' Dat de
shuttle goin' cross. My daddy, he de smart man. I'll never be like him long as I live in dis
world. He make shoes. He build house. He do anything. He and my mammy neither one ever been
brutalize'.

"De first work I done was raisin' cotton and sugar cane and sweet and Irish 'taters. I used
to cook sugar.

"I marry on twenty-second of February. My wife was Medora Labor. She been dead thirty-five
year now. I never marry no second woman. I love my wife so much I never want nobody else. Us
had six chillen. Two am livin'.

"Goin' back when I a slave, massa have a store. When de priest come dey hold church in dat
store. Old massa have sev'ral boys. Dey went after some de slave gals. Dey have chillen by
dem. Dem gals have dere cabins and dere chillen, what am half white.

"After while dem boys marry. But dey allus treat dey chillen by de slave womens good. Dey white
wife treat dem good, too, most like dey dere own chillen.

"Old massa have plenty money. Land am only two bits de acre. Some places it cost nothing. Dey
did haulin' in ox-carts. A man what had mules had something extra.

"Us have plenty wild game, wild geese and ducks. Fishin' am mighty good. Dey was 'gaters, too.
I seed dem bite a man's arm off.

"If a slave feelin' bad dey wouldn't make him work. My uncle and my mammy dey never work nothing
to speak of. Dey allus have some kind complaint. Ain't no tellin' what it gwine be, but you
could 'low something ailin' dem!

"I 'member dey a white man. He had a gif'. I don't care what kind of animal, a dog or a hoss,
dat man he work on it and it never leave you or you house. If anybody have toothache or earache
he take a brand new nail what ain't never work befo' and work dat round you tooth or ear. Dat
break up de toothache or earache right away. He have li'l prayer he say. I don't know what it was.

"I's seed ghosties. I talk with dem, too. Sometimes dey like people. Sometimes dey like animal,
maybe white dog. I allus feel chilly when dey come round me. I talk with my wife after she
dead. She tell me, 'Don't you forgit to pray.' She say dis world corrupt and you got to fight
it out."

420230

     MATTIE GILMORE lives in a little cabin on E. Fifth Avenue, in
     Corsicana, Texas. A smile came to her lips, as she recalled days
     when she was a slave in Mobile, Alabama. She has no idea how old
     she is. Her master, Thomas Barrow, brought his slaves to Athens,
     Texas, during the Civil War, and Mattie had two children at that
     time, so she is probably about ninety.

"I's born in Mobile, Alabama, and I don't have no idea when. My white folks never did tell
me how old I was. My own dear mammy died 'fore I can remember and my stepma didn't take no
time to tell me nothin'. Her name was Mary Barrow and papa's name was Allison Barrow, and I
had sisters, Rachel and Lou and Charity, and a brother, Allison.

"My master sold Rachel when she was jus' a girl. I sho' did cry. They put her on a block and
sold her off. I heared they got a thousand dollars for her, but I never seed her no more till
after freedom. A man named Dick Burdon, from Kaufman County, bought her. After freedom I heared
she's sick and brung her home, but she was too far gone.

"We lived in a log house with dirt floors, warm in winter but sho' hot in summer, no screens
or nothin', jus' homemade doors. We had homemade beds out of planks they picked up around.
Mattresses nothin', we had shuck beds. But, anyway, you takes it, we was better off den dan now.

"I worked in the fields till Rachel was sold, den tooken her place, doin' kitchen work and
fannin' flies off de table with a great, long limb. I liked dat. I got plenty to eat and not
so hot. We had jus' food to make you stand up and work. It wasn't none the good foolish things
we has now. We had cornbread and blackeyed peas and beans and sorghum 'lasses. Old master give
us our rations and iffen dat didn't fill us up, we jus' went lank. Sometimes we had possum
and rabbits and fish, iffen we cotched dem on Sunday. I seed Old Missy parch coffee in a skittle,
and it good coffee, too. We couldn't go to the store and buy things, 'cause they warn't no
stores hardly.

"When dey's hoein' cotton or corn, everybody has to keep up with de driver, not hurry so fast,
but workin' steady. Some de women what had suckin' babies left dem in de shade while dey worked,
and one time a big, bald eagle flew down by one dem babies and picked it up and flew away with
it. De mama couldn't git it and we never heared of dat baby 'gain.

"I 'member when we come from Mobile to Texas. By time we heared de Yankees was comin' dey got
all dere gold together and Miss Jane called me and give me a whole sack of pure gold and silver,
and say bury it in de orchard. I sho' was scart, but I done what she said. Dey was more gold
in a big desk, and de Yanks pulled de top of dat desk and got de gold. Miss Jane had a purty
gold ring on her finger and de captain yanked it off. I said, 'Miss Jane, is dey gwine give
you ring back?' All she said was, 'Shet you mouth,' and dat's what I did.

"Dat night dey digs up de buried gold and we left out. We jus' traveled at night and rested
in daytime. We was scart to make a fire. Dat was awful times. All on de way to de Mississip',
we seed dead men layin' everywhere, black and white.

"While we's waitin' to go cross de Mississip' a white man come up and asks Marse Barrow how
many niggers he has, and counts us all. While we's waitin' de guns 'gins to go boom, boom,
and you could hear all dat noise, it so close. When we gits on de boat it flops dis way and
dat scart me. I sho' don't want to see no more days like dat one, with war and boats.

"We fixes up a purty good house and quarters and gits settled up round Athens. And it ain't
so long 'fore a paper come make us free. Some de slaves laughin' and some cryin' and it a funny
place to be. Marse Barrow asks my stepma to stay cook and he'd pay her some money for it. We
stayed four or five years. Marse Barrow give each he slaves somethin' when dey's freed. Lots
of master put dem out without a thing. But de trouble with most niggers, dey never done no
managin' and didn't know how. De niggers suffered from de war, iffen dey did git freedom from it.

"I's already married de slave way in Mobile and had three chillen. My husband died 'fore war
am over and I marries Las Gilmore and never has no more chillen. I has no livin' kinfolks I
knows of. When we come here Las done any work he could git and bought this li'l house, but
I can't pay taxes on it, but, sho', de white folks won't put me out. I done git my leg cut
off in a train wreck, so I can't work, and I's too old, noways. I don't has no idea how old I is.

420245

     ANDREW GOODMAN, 97, was born a slave of the Goodman family, near
     Birmingham, Alabama. His master moved to Smith County, Texas, when
     Andrew was three years old. Andrew is a frail, kindly old man, who
     lives in his memories. He lives at 2607 Canton St., Dallas, Texas.

"I was born in slavery and I think them days was better for the niggers than the days we see
now. One thing was, I never was cold and hongry when my old master lived, and I has been plenty
hongry and cold a lot of times since he is gone. But sometimes I think Marse Goodman was the
bestes' man Gawd made in a long time.

"My mother, Martha Goodman, 'longed to Marse Bob Goodman when she was born, but my paw come
from Tennessee and Marse Bob heired him from some of his kinfolks what died over there. The
Goodmans must have been fine folks all-a-way round, 'cause my paw said them that raised him
was good to they niggers.

"Old Marse never 'lowed none of his nigger families separated. He 'lowed he thought it right
and fittin' that folks stay together, though I heard tell of some that didn't think so.

"My Missus was just as good as Marse Bob. My maw was a puny little woman that wasn't able to
do work in the fields, and she puttered round the house for the Missus, doin' little odd jobs.
I played round with little Miss Sallie and little Mr. Bob, and I ate with them and slept with
them. I used to sweep off the steps and do things, and she'd brag on me and many is the time
I'd git to noddin' and go to sleep, and she'd pick me up and put me in bed with her chillun.

"Marse Bob didn't put his little niggers in the fields till they's big 'nough to work, and
the mammies was give time off from the fields to come back to the nursin' home to suck the
babies. He didn't never put the niggers out in bad weather. He give us something to do, in
out of the weather, like shellin' corn and the women could spin and knit. They made us plenty
of good clothes. In summer we wore long shirts, split up the sides, made out of lowerings--that's
same as cotton sacks was made out of. In winter we had good jeans and knitted sweaters and
knitted socks.

"My paw was a shoemaker. He'd take a calfhide and make shoes with the hairy sides turned in,
and they was warm and kept your feet dry. My maw spent a lot of time cardin' and spinnin' wool,
and I allus had plenty things.

"Life was purty fine with Marse Bob. He was a man of plenty. He had a lot of land and he built
him a big log house when he come to Texas. He had sev'ral hundred head of cattle and more than
that many hawgs. We raised cotton and grain and chickens and vegetables, and most anything
anybody could ask for. Some places the masters give out a peck of meal and so many pounds of
meat to a family for them a week's rations, and if they et it up that was all they got. But
Marse Bob allus give out plenty, and said, 'If you need more you can have it, 'cause ain't
any going to suffer on my place.'

"He built us a church, and a old man, Kenneth Lyons, who was a slave of the Lyon's family nearby,
used to git a pass every Sunday mornin' and come preach to us. He was a man of good learnin'
and the best preacher I ever heard. He baptised in a little old mudhole down back of our place.
Nearly all the boys and gals gits converted when they's 'bout twelve or fifteen year old. Then
on Sunday afternoon, Marse Bob larned us to read and write. He told us we oughta git all the
learnin' we could.

"Once a week the slaves could have any night they want for a dance or frolic. Mance McQueen
was a slave 'longing on the Dewberry place, what could play a fiddle, and his master give him
a pass to come play for us. Marse Bob give us chickens or kilt a fresh beef or let us make
'lasses candy. We could choose any night, 'cept in the fall of the year. Then we worked awful
hard and didn't have the time. We had a gin run by horsepower and after sundown, when we left
the fields, we used to gin a bale of cotton every night. Marse allus give us from Christmas
Eve through New Year's Day off, to make up for the hard work in the fall.

"Christmas time everybody got a present and Marse Bob give a big hawg to every four families.
We had money to buy whiskey with. In spare time we'd make cornshuck horse collars and all kinds
of baskets, and Marse bought them off us. What he couldn't use, he sold for us. We'd take post
oak and split it thin with drawin' knives and let it git tough in the sun, and then weave it
into cotton baskets and fish baskets and little fancy baskets. The men spent they money on
whiskey, 'cause everything else was furnished. We raised our own tobacco and hung it in the
barn to season, and a'body could go git it when they wanted it.

"We allus got Saturday afternoons off to fish and hunt. We used to have fish fries and plenty
game in them days.

"Course, we used to hear 'bout other places where they had nigger drivers and beat the slaves.
But I never did see or hear tell of one of master's slaves gittin' a beatin'. We had a overseer,
but didn't know what a nigger driver was. Marse Bob had some nigger dogs like other places,
and used to train them for fun. He'd git some the boys to run for a hour or so and then put
the dogs on the trail. He'd say, 'If you hear them gittin' near, take to a tree.' But Marse
Bob never had no niggers to run off.

"Old man Briscoll, who had a place next to ours, was vicious cruel. He was mean to his own
blood, beatin' his chillen. His slaves was afeared all the time and hated him. Old Charlie,
a good, old man who 'longed to him, run away and stayed six months in the woods 'fore Briscoll
cotched him. The niggers used to help feed him, but one day a nigger 'trayed him, and Briscoe
put the dogs on him and cotched him. He made to Charlie like he wasn't goin' to hurt him none,
and got him to come peaceful. When he took him home, he tied him and beat him for a turrible
long time. Then he took a big, pine torch and let burnin' pitch drop in spots all over him.
Old Charlie was sick 'bout four months and then he died.

"Marse Bob knowed me better'n most the slaves, 'cause I was round the house more. One day he
called all the slaves to the yard. He only had sixty-six then, 'cause he had 'vided with his
son and daughter when they married. He made a little speech. He said, 'I'm going to a war,
but I don't think I'll be gone long, and I'm turnin' the overseer off and leavin' Andrew in
charge of the place, and I wants everything to go on, just like I was here. Now, you all mind
what Andrew says, 'cause if you don't, I'll make it rough on you when I come back home.' He
was jokin', though, 'cause he wouldn't have done nothing to them.

"Then he said to me, 'Andrew, you is old 'nough to be a man and look after things. Take care
of Missus and see that none the niggers wants, and try to keep the place going.'

"We didn't know what the war was 'bout, but master was gone four years. When Old Missus heard
from him, she'd call all the slaves and tell us the news and read us his letters. Little parts
of it she wouldn't read. We never heard of him gittin' hurt none, but if he had, Old Missus
wouldn't tell us, 'cause the niggers used to cry and pray over him all the time. We never heard
tell what the war was 'bout.

"When Marse Bob come home, he sent for all the slaves. He was sittin' in a yard chair, all
tuckered out, and shuck hands all round, and said he's glad to see us. Then he said, 'I got
something to tell you. You is jus' as free as I is. You don't 'long to nobody but you'selves.
We went to the war and fought, but the Yankees done whup us, and they say the niggers is free.
You can go where you wants to go, or you can stay here, jus' as you likes.' He couldn't help
but cry.

"The niggers cry and don't know much what Marse Bob means. They is sorry 'bout the freedom,
'cause they don't know where to go, and they's allus 'pend on Old Marse to look after them.
Three families went to get farms for theyselves, but the rest just stay on for hands on the
old place.

"The Federals has been comin' by, even 'fore Old Marse come home. They all come by, carryin'
they little budgets, and if they was walkin' they'd look in the stables for a horse or mule,
and they jus' took what they wanted of corn or livestock. They done the same after Marse Bob
come home. He jus' said, 'Let them go they way, 'cause that's what they're going to do, anyway.'
We was scareder of them than we was of the debbil. But they spoke right kindly to us cullud
folks. They said, 'If you got a good master and want to stay, well, you can do that, but now
you can go where you want to, 'cause ain't nobody going to stop you.'

"The niggers can't hardly git used to the idea. When they wants to leave the place, they still
go up to the big house for a pass. They jus' can't understand 'bout the freedom. Old Marse
or Missus say, 'You don't need no pass. All you got to do is jus' take you foot in you hand
and go.'

"It seem like the war jus' plumb broke Old Marse up. It wasn't long till he moved into Tyler
and left my paw runnin' the farm on a halfance with him and the niggers workers. He didn't
live long, but I forgits jus' how long. But when Mr. Bob heired the old place, he 'lowed we'd
jus' go 'long the way his paw has made the trade with my paw.

"Young Mr. Bob 'parently done the first rascality I ever heard of a Goodman doin'. The first
year we worked for him we raised lots of grain and other things and fifty-seven bales of cotton.
Cotton was fifty-two cents a pound and he shipped it all away, but all he ever gave us was
a box of candy and a sack of store tobacco and a sack of sugar. He said the 'signment done
got lost. Paw said to let it go, 'cause we had allus lived by what the Goodman had said.

"I got married and lived on the old place till I was in my late fifties. I had seven chillun,
but if I got any livin' now, I don't know where they is now. My paw and maw got to own a little
piece of land not far from the old place, and paw lived to be 102 and maw 106. I'm the last
one of any of my folks.

"For twenty years my health ain't been so good, and I can't work even now, though my health
is better'n in the past. I had hemorraghes. All my folks died on me, and it's purty rough on
a old man like me. My white folks is all dead or I wouldn't be 'lowed to go hongry and cold
like I do, or have to pay rent.

420060

     AUSTIN GRANT came to Texas from Mississippi with his grandfather,
     father, mother and brother. George Harper owned the family. He
     raised cotton on Peach Creek, near Gonzales. Austin was hired out
     by his master and after the war his father hired him out to the
     Riley Ranch on Seco Creek, above D'hanis. He then bought a farm in
     the slave settlement north of Hondo. He is 89 or 90 years old.

"I'm mixed up on my age, I'm 'fraid, for the Bible got burned up that the master's wife had
our ages in. She told me my age, which would make me 89, but I believe I come nearer bein'
91, accordin' to the way my mother figured it out.

"I belonged to George Harper, he was Judge Harper. The' was my father, mother and two boys.
He brought us from Mississippi, but I don' 'member what part they come from. We settled down
here at Gonzeles, on Peach Creek, and he farmed one year there. Then he moved out here to Medina
County, right here on Hondo Creek. I dont 'member how many acres he had, but he had a big farm.
He had at least eight whole slave families. He sold 'em when he wanted money.

"My mother's name was Mary Harper and my father's name was Ike Harper, and they belonged to
the Harpers, too. You know, after they was turned loose they had to name themselves. My father
named himself Grant and his brother named himself Glover, and my grandfather was Filmore. They
had some kin' of law you had to git away from your boss' name so they named themselves.

"Our house we had to live in, I tell you we had a tough affair, a picket concern, you might
say no house a-tall. The beds was one of your own make; if you knowed how to make one, you
had one, but of course the chillen slept on the floor, patched up some way.

"We went barefooted in the summer and winter, too. You had to prepare that for yourself, and
if you didn' have head enough to prepare for yourself, you went without. I don' see how they
done as well as they done, 'cause some winters was awful cold, but I always said the Lawd was
with 'em.

[Handwritten Note: 'used']

"We didn' have no little garden, we never had no time to work no garden. When you could see
to work, you was workin' for him. Ho! You didn' know what money was. He never paid you anything,
you never got to see none. Some of the Germans would give the old ones a little piece of money,
but the chillen, pshaw! They never got to see nothin.'

"He was a pretty good boss. You didn' have to work Sunday and part of Saturday and in the evenin',
you had that. He fed us good. Sometimes, if you was crowded, you had to work all day Saturday.
But usually he give you that, so you could wash and weave cloth or such. He had cullud women
there he kep' all the time to weave and spin. They kep' cloth made.

"On Saturday nights, we jes' knocked 'round the place. Christmas? I don' know as I was ever
home Christmas. My boss kep' me hired out. The slaves never had no Christmas presents I know
of. And big dinners, I never was at nary one. They didn' give us nothin, I tell you, but a
grubbin' hoe and axe and the whip. They had co'n shuckin's in them days and co'n shellin's,
too. We would shuck so many days and so many days to shell it up.

"We would shoot marbles when we was little. It was all the game the niggers ever knowed, was
shootin' marbles.

"After work at nights there wasn't much settin' 'round; you'd fall into bed and go to sleep.
On Saturday night they didn' git together, they would jes' sing at their own houses. Oh, yes'm,
I 'member 'em singin' 'Run, nigger, run,' but it's too far back for me to 'member those other
songs. They would raise up a song when they was pickin' cotton, but I don' 'member much about
those songs.

"My old boss, I'm boun' to give him praise, he treated his niggers right. He made 'em work,
though, and he whipped 'em, too. But he fed good, too. We had rabbits and possums once in awhile.
Hardly ever any game, but you might git a deer sometimes.

"Let 'em ketch you with a gun or a piece of paper with writin' on it and he'd whip you like
everything. Some of the slaves, if they ever did git a piece of paper, they would keep it and
learn a few words. But they didn' want you to know nothin', that's what, nothin' but work.
You would think they was goin' to kill you, he would whip you so if he caught you with a piece
of paper. You couldn' have nothin' but a pick and axe and grubbin' hoe.

"We never got to play none. Our boss hired us out lots of times. I don' know what he got for
us. We farmed, cut wood, grubbed, anything. I herded sheep and I picked cotton.

"We got up early, you betcha. You would be out there by time you could see and you quit when
it was dark. They tasked us. They would give us 200 or 300 pounds of cotton to bring in and
you would git it, and if you didn' git it, you better, or you would git it tomorrow, or your
back would git it. Or you'd git it from someone else, maybe steal it from their sacks.

"My grandfather, he would tell us things, to keep the whip off our backs. He would say, 'Chillen,
work, work and work hard. You know how you hate to be whipped, so work hard!' And of course
we chillen tried, but of course we would git careless sometimes.

"The master had a 'black snake'--some called it a 'bull whip,' and he knew how to use it. He
whipped, but I don' 'member now whether he brought any blood on me, but he cut the blood outta
the grown ones. He didn' tie 'em, he always had a whippin' block or log to make 'em lay down
on. They called 500 licks a 'light breshin,' and right on your naked back, too. They said your
clothes wouldn' grow but your hide would. From what I heered say, if you run away, then was
when they give you a whippin,' prob'bly 1500 or 2000 licks. They'd shore tie you down then,
'cause you couldn' stan' it. Then you'd have to work on top of all that, with your shirt stickin'
to your back.

"The overseer woke us up. Sometimes he had a kin' of horn to blow, and when you heered that
horn, you'd better git up. He would give you a good whippin' iffen he had to come and wake
you up. He was the meanest one on the place, worse'n the boss man.

"The boss man had a nice rock house, and the women didn' work at all.

"I never did see any slaves auctioned off, but I heered of it. My boss he would take 'em there
and sell 'em.

"They had a church this side of New Fountain and the boss man 'lowed us to go on Sunday. If
any of the slaves did join, they didn' baptize them, as I know of.

"When one of the slaves would die, they would bury 'em on the land there. Reg'lar little cemetery
there. Oh, yes, they would have doctors for 'em. If anybody died, they would tell some of the
other slaves to dig the grave and take 'em out there and bury 'em. They jes' put 'em in a box,
no preachin' or nothin.' But, of course, if it was Sunday the slaves would follow out there
and sing. No, if they didn' die on Sunday, you couldn' go; you went to that field.

"If you wanted to go to any other plantation you had to git a pass to go over there, and if
you didn' and got caught, you got one of the worst whippins'. If things happened and they wanted
to tell 'em on other plantations, they would slip out at night and tell 'em.

"We never heered much about the fightin' or how it was goin.' When the war finally was over,
our old boss called us all up and had us to stand in abreast, and he stood on the gallery and
he read the verdict to 'em, and said, 'Now, you can jes' work on if you want to, and I'll treat
you jes' like I always did.' I guess when he said that they knew what he meant. The' wasn't
but one family left with 'im. They stayed about two years. But the rest was just like birds,
they jes' flew.

"I went with my father and he hired me out for two years, to a man named Riley, over on the
Seco. I did most everythin', worked the field and was house rustler, too. But I had a good
time there. After I left 'im, I came to D'Hanis. I worked on a church house they was buildin'.
Then I went back to my father and worked for him a long time, freightin' cotton to Eagle Pass.
I used horses and mules and hauled cotton and flour and whiskey and things like that.

"I met my wife down on Black Creek, and I freighted two years after we was married. We got
married so long ago, but in them days anything would do. You see, these days they are so proud,
but we was glad to have anything. I had a black suit to be married in, and a pretty long shirt,
and I wore boots. She wore a white dress, but in them days they didn' have black shoes. Yes'm,
they had a dance, down here on Black Creek. Danced half the night at her house and two men
played the fiddle. Eat? We had everythin' to eat, a barbecued calf and a hog, too, and all
kinds of cakes and pies. Drink? Why, the men had whiskey to drink and the women drank coffee.
We married about 7 or 8 in the evenin' at her house. My wife's name was Sarah Ann Brackins.

"Did I see a ghost? Well, over yonder on the creek was a ghost. It was a moonlight night and
it passed right by me and it never had no head on it a-tall. It almost breshed me. It kep'
walkin' right by side of me. I shore saw it and I run like a good fellow. Lots of 'em could
see wonnurful sights then and I heered lots of noises, but that's the only ghost I ever seen.

"No, I never knowed nothing 'bout charms. I've seen 'em have a rabbit heel or coon heel for
good luck. I seen a woman one time that was tricked, or what I'd call poisoned. A place on
her let, it was jes' the shape of these little old striped lizards. It was somethin' they called
'trickin it,' and a person that knowed to trick you would put it there to make you suffer the
balance of your days. It would go 'round your leg clear to the hip and be between the skin
and the flesh. They called it the devil's work."

420118

     JAMES GREEN is half American Indian and half Negro. He was born a
     slave to John Williams, of Petersburg, Va., became a "free boy",
     then was kidnapped and sold in a Virginia slave market to a Texas
     ranchman. He now lives at 323 N. Olive St., San Antonio, Texas.

"I never knowed my age till after de war, when I's set free de second time, and then marster
gits out a big book and it shows I's 25 year old. It shows I's 12 when I is bought and $800
is paid for me. That $800 was stolen money, 'cause I was kidnapped and dis is how it come:

"My mammy was owned by John Williams in Petersburg, in Virginia, and I come born to her on
dat plantation. Den my father set 'bout to git me free, 'cause he a full-blooded Indian and
done some big favor for a big man high up in de courts, and he gits me set free, and den Marster
Williams laughs and calls me 'free boy.'

"Then, one day along come a Friday and that a unlucky star day and I playin' round de house
and Marster Williams come up and say, 'Delia, will you 'low Jim walk down de street with me?'
My mammy say, 'All right, Jim, you be a good boy,' and dat de las' time I ever heared her speak,
or ever see her. We walks down whar de houses grows close together and pretty soon comes to
de slave market. I ain't seed it 'fore, but when Marster Williams says, 'Git up on de block,'
I got a funny feelin', and I knows what has happened. I's sold to Marster John Pinchback and
he had de St. Vitus dance and he likes to make he niggers suffer to make up for his squirmin'
and twistin' and he the bigges' debbil on earth.

"We leaves right away for Texas and goes to marster's ranch in Columbus. It was owned by him
and a man call Wright, and when we gits there I's put to work without nothin' to eat. Dat night
I makes up my mind to run away but de nex' day dey takes me and de other niggers to look at
de dogs and chooses me to train de dogs with. I's told I had to play I runnin' away and to
run five mile in any way and then climb a tree. One of de niggers tells me kind of nice to
climb as high in dat tree as I could if I didn't want my body tore off my legs. So I runs a
good five miles and climbs up in de tree whar de branches is gettin' small.

"I sits dere a long time and den sees de dogs comin'. When dey gits under de tree dey sees
me and starts barkin'. After dat I never got thinkin' of runnin' away.

"Time goes on and de war come along, but everything goes on like it did. Some niggers dies,
but more was born, 'cause old Pinchback sees to dat. He breeds niggers as quick as he can,
'cause dat money for him. No one had no say who he have for wife. But de nigger husbands wasn't
de only ones dat keeps up havin' chillen, 'cause de marsters and de drivers takes all de nigger
gals dey wants. Den de chillen was brown and I seed one clear white one, but dey slaves jus'
de same.

"De end of dat war comes and old Pinchback says, 'You niggers all come to de big house in de
mornin'. He tells us we is free and he opens his book and gives us all a name and tells us
whar we comes from and how old we is, and says he pay us 40 cents a day to stay with him. I
stays 'bout a year and dere's no big change. De same houses and some got whipped but nobody
got nailed to a tree by de ears, like dey used to. Finally old Pinchback dies and when he buried
de lightnin' come and split de grave and de coffin wide open.

"Well, time goes on some more and den Lizzie and me, we gits together and we marries reg'lar
with a real weddin'. We's been together a long time and we is happy.

"I 'members a old song like dis:

  "'Old marster eats beef and sucks on de bone,
          And give us de gristle--
      To make, to make, to make, to make,
          To make de nigger whistle.'

"Dat all de song I 'member from dose old days, 'ceptin' one more:

  "'I goes to church in early morn,
  De birds just a-sittin' on de tree--
  Sometimes my clothes gits very much worn--
  'Cause I wears 'em out at de knee.

  "'I sings and shouts with all my might,
      To drive away de cold--
  And de bells keep ringin' in gospel light,
      Till de story of de Lamb am told.'"

420064

     O.W. Green, son of Frank and of Mary Ann Marks, was born in slavery
     at Bradly Co., Arkansas, June 26, 1859. His owners, the Mobley
     family, owned a large plantation and two or three thousand slaves.
     Jack Mobley, Green's young master, was killed in the Civil War, and
     Green became one of the "orphan chillen." When the Ku Klux Klan
     became active, the "orphan chillen" were taken to Little Rock, Ark.
     Later on, Green moved to Del Rio, Texas, where he now lives.

"I was bo'ned in Arkansas. Frank Marks was my father and Mary Ann Marks my mother. She was
bo'n on the plantation. I had two brothers.

"I don' 'member de quarters, but dey mus' of had plenty, 'cause dey was two, three thousand
slaves on de plantation. All my kin people belonged to Massa Mobley. My grandfather was a millman
and dey had one de bigges' grist mills in de country.

"Our Massa was good and we had plenty for to eat. Dere was no jail for slaves on our place
but not far from dere was a jail.

"De Ku Klux Klan made everything pretty squally, so dey taken de orphan chillen to Little Rock
and kep' 'em two, three years. Dere was lots of slaves in dat country 'round Rob Roy and Free
Nigger Bend. Old Churchill, who used to be governor, had a plantation in dere.

"When I was nine years ol' dey had de Bruce and Baxter revolution. 'Twas more runnin' dan fightin'.
Bruce was 'lected for governor but Baxter said he'd be governor if he had to run Brooks into
de sea.

"My young Massa, Jack Mobley, was killed in de war, is how I come to be one of de orphan chillen.

"While us orphan chillen was at Little Rock dere come a terrible soreness of de eyes. I heard
tell 'twas caused from de cholera. Every little child had to take turns about sittin' by de
babies or totin' them. I was so blind, my eyes was so sore, I couldn't see. The doctor's wife
was working with us. She was tryin' to figure up a cure for our sore eyes, first using one
remedy and den another. An old herb doctor told her about a herb he had used on de plantations
to cure de slaves' sore eyes. Dey boiled de herb and put hit on our eyes, on a white cloth.
De doctor's wife had a little boy about my age. He would play with me, and thought I was about
hit. He would lead me around, then he would run off and leave me and see if I could see. One
day between 'leven and twelve o'clock--I never will fergit hit--he taken me down to de mess
room. De lady was not quite ready to dress my eyes. She told me to go on and come back in a
little while. When I got outside I tore dat old rag off of my eyes and throwed hit down. I
told the little boy, 'O, I can see you!' He grabbed me by de arm and ran yellin' to his mammy,
'Mama, he can see! Mama, Owen can see!' I neva will fo'git dat word. Dey were all in so a rejoicin',
excitable way. I was de first one had his eyes cured. Dey sent de lady to New York and she
made plenty of money from her remedy.

"Things sure was turrible durin' de war. Dey just driv us in front of de soldiers. Dere was
lots of cholera. We was just bedded together lak hogs. The Ku Klux Klan come behind de soldiers,
killin' and robbin'.

"After two or three years in de camp with de orphans, my kin found me and took me home.

"My grandfather and uncle was in de fightin'. My grandfather was a wagon man. De las' trip
he made, he come home bringin' a load of dead soldiers to be buried. My grandfather told de
people all about de war. He said hit sure was terrible.

"When de war was over de people jus' shouted for joy. De men and women jus' shouted for joy.
'Twas only because of de prayers of de cullud people, dey was freed, and de Lawd worked through
Lincoln.

"My old masta was a doctor and a surgeon. He trained my grandmother; she worked under him thirty-seven
years as a nurse. When old masta wanted grandmother to go on a special case he would whip her
so she wouldn't tell none of his secrets. Grandmother used herbs fo' medicine--black snake
root, sasparilla, blackberry briar roots--and nearly all de young'uns she fooled with she save
from diarrhea.

"My old masta was good, but when he found you shoutin' he burnt your hand. My grandmother said
he burnt her hand several times. Masta wouldn't let de cullud folks have meetin', but dey would
go out in de woods in secret to pray and preach and shout.

"I jist picked up enough readin' to read my bible and scratch my name. I went to school one
mo'ning and didn't git along wid de teacher so I didn't go no mo'.

"I 'member my folks had big times come Christmas. Dey never did work on Sundays, jist set around
and rest. Dey never worked in bad weather. Dey never did go to de field till seven o'clock.

"I married in 1919. I have two step-daughters and one step-son. My step-son lives in San Antonio.
I have six step-grandchillen. I was a member of de Baptist church befo' you was bo'n, lady.

420394

Dibble, Fred Beaumont, Jefferson Co. Dist. #3

     ROSA GREEN, 85 years old, was born at Ketchi, Louisiana, but as
     soon as she was old enough became a housegirl on the plantation of
     Major "Bob" Hollingsworth at Mansfield, Louisiana. To the best of
     her knowledge, she was about 13 when the "freedom papers" were
     read. She had had 13 children by her two husbands, both deceased,
     and lives with her youngest daughter in Beaumont. Their one-room,
     unpainted house is one of a dozen unprepossessing structures
     bordering an alleyway leading off Pine Street. Rosa, a spry little
     figure, crowned with short, snow-white pigtails extending in
     various directions, spends most of her time tending her small
     flowerbeds and vegetable garden. She is talkative and her memory
     seems quite active.

"When de w'ite folks read de freedom paper I was 13 year old. I jes' lean up agin de porch,
'cause I didn' know den what it was all about. I war'nt bo'n in Texas, I was bo'n in Ketchi,
but I was rais' in Manfiel'. Law, yes, I 'member de fight at Manfiel'. My ol' marster tuk all
he niggers and lef' at night. Lef' us little ones; say de Yankees could git us effen day wan'
to, 'cause we no good no way, and I wouldn' care if dey did git us. Dey put us in a sugar hogshead
and give us a spoon to scrape out de sugar. 'Bout de ol' plantation, I work a little w'ile
in de fiel'. I didn' know den like I see now. Dese chillen bo'n wid mo' sense now dan we was
den. Dey was 'bout ten cullud folks on de place. My ol' marster name Bob Hollingsworth, but
dey call 'im Major, 'cause he was a major in de war, not de las' one, but de one way back yonder.
Ol' missus work de little ones roun' de house and under de house and kep' ev'yt'ing clean as
yo' han'. The ol' marster I thought was de meanes' man de Lawd ever made. Look like he cuss
ev'y time he open he mouth. De neighbor w'ite folks, some good, some bad. My work was cleanin'
up 'roun de house and nussin' de chillen. Only times I went to church when day tuk us long
to min' de chillen. When de battle of Manfiel' was, we didn' git out much. When de Yankees
was comin' to Gran' Cane, my w'ite folks dig a big pit and put der meat and flour and all in
it and cover it over wid dirt and put wagon loads of pine straw over it. It was 'bout five
or six mile to Manfield and 'bout 49 or 50 mile to Shreveport. My ol' marster tuk all he niggers
and went off somweres, dey called it Texas, but I didn' know where. De ol'er ones farm. Dey
rais' ev'yt'ing dey could put in de groun', dey did. My pa was kirrige(carriage) driver for
my ol' missus. He was boss nigger fo' de cullud men when marster wan't right dere. My father
jis' stay dere. See, dey free our people in July. Dat leave de whole crop stanin' dere in de
fiel'. Dey had to stay dere and take care of de crop. After dat dey commence makin' contraks
and bargins. I was 22 years ol' when I marry de fus' time. Both my husban's dead. I had 13
chillen in all.

"De fus' time I went to church, missus tuk me and another gal to min' de chillen. I never heared
a preacher befo'. I 'member how de preacher word de hymn:

  'Come, ye sinners, po' and needy.
  Weak and wounded, sick and so'.'

"I couldn' understan' it, but now when I look down on it I sees it now. I bleeve us been here
goin' on fo' year' right yere in dis house."

420078

     WILLIAM GREEN, or "Reverend Bill", as he is call by the other
     Negroes, was brought to Texas from Mississippi in 1862. His master
     was Major John Montgomery. William is 87 years old. He has lived in
     San Antonio, Texas, for 50 years.

"I is Reverend Bill, all right, but I is 'fraid dat compliment don't belong to me no more,
'cause I quit preachin' in favor of de young men.

"I kin tell you my 'speriences in savin'--mis'ry dat was, is peace dat is. I tells you dis
'spite of bein' alone in de world with no chillun.

"I is raised a slave and 'mancipated in June, but I 'members de old plantation whar I is born.
Massa John Montgomery, he owned me, and he went to de war and git kilt. I knowed 'bout de war,
though us slaves wasn't sposed to know nothin' 'bout it. I was livin' in Texas then, 'cause
Massa John moved over here from Mis'sippi. In dat place niggers was allus wrong, no matter
what, but it was better in dis place. We used to think we was lucky to git over here to Texas,
and we used to sing a song 'bout it:

  "'Over yonder is de wild-goose nation,
  Whar old missus has sugar plantation--
  Sugar grows sweet but de plantation's sour,
  'cause de nigger jump and run every hour.

  "'I has you all to know, you all to know,
  Dare's light on de shore,
  Says little Bill to big Bill,
  There's a li'l nigger to write and cipher.'

"I don't know what de song meant but we thought we'd git free here in Texas, and we'd git eddicated,
and dat's de meanin' of de talk about writin' and cipherin'.

"Well, when I is free I isn't free, 'cause de boss wants me and another boy to stay till we's
21 year old. But old Judge Longworth, he come down dere and dere was pretty near a fight, and
he 'splains to us we was free.

"'bout five year after dat I takes up preachin' and I preaches for a long time, and I works
on a farm, half and half with de owner. I has a good life, but now I's too old to preach.

420041

     PAULINE GRICE, 81, was born a slave of John Blackshier, who owned
     her mother, about 150 slaves, 50 slave children, and a large
     plantation near Atlanta, Georgia. Pauline married Navasota Grice in
     1875 and they moved to Texas in 1917. Since her husband's death in
     1928 Pauline has depended on the charity of friends, with whom she
     lives at 2504 Ross Ave., North Fort Worth, Texas.

"White man, dis old cullud woman am not strong. 'Bout all my substance am gone now. De way
you sees me layin' on dis bed am what I has to do mos' de time. My mem'randum not so good like
'twas.

"De place I am borned am right near Atlanta, in Georgia, and on dat plantation of Massa John
Blackshier. A big place, with 'bout 150 growed slaves and 'bout 50 pickininnies. I doesn't
work till near de surrender, 'cause I's too small. But us don't leave Massa John, us go right
on workin' for him like 'fore.

"Massa John am de kind massa and don't have whuppin's. He tell de overseer, 'If you can't make
dem niggers work without de whup, den you not de man I wants.' Mos' de niggers 'have theyselves
and when dey don't massa put dem in de li'l house what he call de jail, with nothin' to eat
till deys ready to do what he say. Onct or twict he sell de nigger what won't do right and
do de work.

"Us have de cabin what am made from logs but us only sleeps dere. All us cookin' done in de
big kitchen. Dere am three women what do dat, and give us de meals in de long shed with de
long tables.

"To de bes' of dis nigger's mem'randum, de feed am good. Plenty of everything and corn am de
mostest us have. Dere am cornbread and cornmeal mush and corn hominy and corn grits and parched
corn for drink, 'stead of tea or coffee. Us have milk and 'lasses and brown sugar, and some
meat. Dat all raise on de place. Stuff for to eat and wear, dat am made by us cullud folks
and dat place am what dey calls se'f-s'portin'. De shoemaker make all de shoes and fix de leather,
too.

"After breakfas' in de mornin' de niggers am gwine here, dere and everywhere, jus' like de
big factory. Every one to he job, some a-whistlin', some a-singin'. Dey sings diff'rent songs
and dis am one when deys gwine to work:

  "'Old cotton, old corn, see you every morn,
  Old cotton, old corn, see you since I's born.
  Old cotton, old corn, hoe you till dawn,
  Old cotton, old corn, what for you born?'

"Yes, suh, everybody happy on massa's place till war begin. He have two sons and Willie am
'bout 18 and Dave am 'bout 17. Dey jines de army and after 'bout a year, massa jine too, and,
course, dat make de missy awful sad. She have to 'pend on de overseer and it warn't like massa
keep things runnin'.

"In de old days, if de niggers wants de party, massa am de big toad in de puddle. And Christmas,
it am de day for de big time. A tree am fix, and some present for everyone. De white preacher
talk 'bout Christ. Us have singin' and 'joyment all day. Den at night, de big fire builded
and all us sot 'round it. Dere am 'bout hundred hawg bladders save from hawg killin'. So, on
Christmas night, de chillen takes dem and puts dem on de stick. Fust dey is all blowed full
of air and tied tight and dry. Den de chillen holds de bladder in de fire and purty soon, 'B
A N G,' dey goes. Dat am de fireworks.

"Dat all changed after massa go to war. Fust de 'federate sojers come and takes some mules
and hosses, den some more come for de corn. After while, de Yankee sojers comes and takes some
more. When dey gits through, dey ain't much more tookin' to be done. De year 'fore surrender,
us am short of rations and sometime us hongry. Us sees no battlin' but de cannon bang all day.
Once, dey bang two whole days 'thout hardly stoppin'. Dat am when missy go tech in de head,
'cause massa and de boys in dat battle. She jus' walk 'round de yard and twist de hands and
say, 'Dey sho' git kilt. Dey sho' dead.' Den when extra loud noise come from de cannon, she
scream. Den word come Willie am kilt. She gits over it, but she am de diff'rent woman. For
her, it am trouble, trouble and more trouble.

"She can't sell de cotton. Dey done took all de rations and us couldn't eat de cotton. One
day she tell us, 'De war am on us. De sojers done took de rations. I can't sell de cotton,
'cause of de blockade.' I don't know what am dat blockade, but she say it. 'Now,' she say,
'All you cullud folks born and raise here and us allus been good to you. I can't holp it 'cause
rations am short and I'll do all I can for you. Will yous be patient with me?' All us stay
dere and holp missy all us could.

"Den massa come home and say, 'Yous gwine be free. Far as I cares, you is free now, and can
stay here and tough it through or go where you wants. I thanks yous for all de way yous done
while I's gone, and I'll holp you all I can.' Us all stay and it sho' am tough times. Us have
most nothin' to eat and den de Ku Klux come 'round dere. Massa say not mix with dat crowd what
lose de head, jus' stay to home and work. Some dem niggers on other plantations ain't keep
de head and dey gits whupped and some gits kilt, but us does what massa say and has no trouble
with dem Klux.

"It 'bout two year after freedom mammy gits marry and us goes and works on shares. I stays
with dem till 1875 and den marries Navasota Robert Grice and us live by farmin' till he die,
nine year since. 'Bout 20 year since us come here from Georgia and works de truck farm. I has
two chillen but dey dead. De way I feels now, 'twon't be long 'fore I goes, too. My friends
is good to me and lets me stay with dem.

420107

     MANDY HADNOT, small and forlorn looking, as she lies in a huge,
     old-fashioned wooden bed, appears very black in contrast to the
     clean white sheets and a thick mop of snowy wool on her head. She
     does not know her age, but from her appearance and the details she
     remembers of her years as slave in the Slade home, near Cold
     Springs, Texas, she must be very old. She lives in Woodville,
     Texas, with her husband, Josh, to whom she has been married 13
     years.

"I's too small to 'member my father, 'cause he die when I jus' a baby. Dey was my mudder and
me and de ole mistus and marster on de plantation. It were mo' jus' a farm, but dey raise us
all we need to eat and feed de cows and hosses.

"De earlies' 'membrance I hab is when de ole marster drive into de town for supplies every
two weeks. Us place was right near Col' Springs. He was a good man. He treat dis lil' darky
jus' like he own chile, 'cause he never hab any chillen of his own. I know 'bout de time he
comin' home when he go to town and I wait down by de big gate. Purty soon I see de big ox comin'
and see de smoke from de road dust flyin'. Den I know he almos' home and I holler and wave
my han' and he holler and wave he han' right back. He allus brung me somethin', jus' like I
he own little gal. Sometime he brung me a whistle or some candy or doll or somethin'.

"One Easter he brung me de purties' lil' hat I ever did see. My ole mistus took me to Sunday
school with her and I spruce up in dat hat.

"Every Christmas 'fore ole marster die he fix me up a tree out de woods. Dey put popco'n on
it to trim it and dey give me sometime a purty dress or shoes and plenty candy and maybe a
big, red apple. Dey hab a big san' pile for me to play in, but I never play with any other
chillen. My mammy, Emily Budle, she cook and clean up mistus log house cabin. After de ole
marster die dey both work in de fiel' and raise plenty vegetables to can and eat. My task was
to shell peas and watch and stir de big cookin' pots on de fireplace.

"My mistus hav lots of company. When she come in and say, 'Mandy, shine up de knife and fork
and put de polish on de pianny, I allus happy, 'cause I lub to see folks come. Us hab chicken
and all kinds of good things. De preacher, he was big, jolly man, he come to de house 'bout
one Sunday in every month. Sometime dey brung lil' white chillen to dinner. Den us play

  'Rabbit, rabbit.
  Jump fru' de crack.'

and

  'Kitty, kitty,
  In de corner,
  Meow, meow,
  Run, kitty, run.'

"De ole marster pick me out a lil', gentle hoss named Julie and dat was my very own hoss. It
was jus' a common lil' hoss. I uster sneak sugar out de barrel to feed Julie. Dey had a big
smokehouse on de farm where dey kep' all kin's of good things like sugar and sich. Dey had
fruits of all kin's put up.

"Every mornin' de ole mistus took out de big Bible and hab prayer meetin' for jus' us three.
Us never learn read much, tho' she try teach me some. When I's 'bout nine year ole she buy
me a purty white dress and took me to jine de church. She was a little, white-hair' woman,
what never los' her temper 'bout nothin'. She use' to let me bump on her pianny and didn' say
nothin'. She couldn' play de pianny but she kinder hope maybe I could, but I never did learn how.

"When freedom come my mudder and me pay no 'tention to it. Us stay right on de place. Purty
soon my mudder die and I jus' took up her shoes. One day I's makin' a bonfire in de yard and
ketch my dress on fire. De whol side of my lef' leg mos' bu'n off. Mistus was so lil' she couldn'
lif' me but she fin'ly git me to bed. Dere I stay for long, long time, and she wait on me han'
and feet. She make linseed poultice and kep' de bu'n grease good. Mos' time she leave all de
wo'k stan' in de middle of de floor and read de Bible and pray for me to git heal up and not
suffer. She cry right 'long with me when I cry, 'cause I hurt so.

"When I's 16 year ole I want to hab courtin'. Mistus 'low me to hab de boy come right to de
big house to see me. He come two mile every Sunday and us go to Lugene Baptist church. Den
she hav nice Sunday dinner for both us. She let me go to ice cream supper, too. Dey didn' hab
no freezer den, jus' a big pan in some ice. De boys and girls took tu'ns stirrin' de cream.
It never git real ha'd but stay kinder slushy. Dey serve cake. Us hav pie supper, too. Whoever
git de girl's pie eat it with her.

"My ole mistus she pay me money right 'long after freedom but I too close to spen' any. Den
when I 'cide to marry Bob Thomas, she he'p me fix a hope ches'. I buys goods for sheets and
table kivers and one nice Sunday set dishes.

"Us marry right in de parlor of de mistus house. De white man preacher marry us and mistus
she give me 'way. Ole mistus he'p me make my weddin' dress outta white lawn. I hab purty long,
black hair and a veil with a ribbon 'round de fron'. De weddin' feas' was strawberry ice cream
and yaller cake. Ole mistus giv me my bedstead, one of her purtiest ones, and de set dishes
and glasses us eat de weddin' dinner outta. My husban' gib me de trabblin' dress, but I never
use dat dress for three weeks, though, 'cause ole mistus cry so when I hafter leave dat I stay
for three weeks after I marry.

"She all 'lone in de big house and I think it break her heart. I ain' been gone to de sawmill
town very long when she sen' for me. I go to see her and took a peach pie, 'cause I lub her
and I know dat's what she like better'n anything. She was sick and she say, 'Mandy, dis de
las' time us gwineter see each other, 'cause I ain' gwineter git well. You be a good girl and
try to git through de worl' dat way.' Den she make me say de Lord Prayer for her jus' like
she allus make me say it for a night prayer when I lil' gal. I never see her no mo'.

"Me and Bob Thomas and dis husban', Josh, what I marry thirteen year ago, hab 'bout 10 chillen
all togedder. Us been lib here many a year. I don' care so much 'bout leavin' dis yearthly
home, 'cause I knows I gwineter see de ole mistus up dere and I tell her I allus 'member what
she tell me and try lib dat way all time.

420237

     WILLIAM HAMILTON belonged to a slave trader, who left him on the
     Buford plantation, near Village Creek, Texas. The trader did not
     return, so the Buford family raised the child with their slaves.
     William now lives at 910 E. Weatherford St., Ft. Worth, Texas.

"Who I is, how old I is and where I is born, I don't know. But Massa Buford told me how durin'
de war a slave trader name William Hamilton, come to Village Creek, where Massa Buford live.
Dat trader was on his way south with my folks and a lot of other slaves, takin' 'em somewheres,
to sell. He camped by Massa Buford's plantation and asks him, 'Can I leave dis li'l nigger
here till I comes back?' Massa Buford say, 'Yes,' and de trader say he'll be back in 'bout
three weeks, soon as he sells all the slaves. He mus' still be sellin' 'em, 'cause he never
comes back so far and there I am and my folks am took on, and I is too li'l to 'member 'em,
so I never knows my pappy and mammy. Massa Buford says de trader comes from Missouri, but if
I is born dere I don't know.

"De only thing I 'members 'bout all dat, am dere am lots of cryin' when dey tooks me 'way from
my mammy. Dat something I never forgits.

"I only 'members after de war, and most de cullud folks stays with Massa Buford after surrender
and works de land on shares. Dey have good times on dat place, and don't want to leave. Day
has dances and fun till de Ku Klux org'nizes and den it am lots of trouble. De Klux comes to
de dance and picks out a nigger and whups him, jus' to keep de niggers scart, and it git so
bad dey don't have no more dances or parties.

"I 'members seein' Faith Baldwin and Jeb Johnson and Dan Hester gittin' whupped by de Klux.
Dey wasn't so bad after women. It am allus after dark when dey comes to de house and catches
de man and whups him for nothin'. Dey has de power, and it am done for to show dey has de power.
It gits so bad round dere, dat de menfolks allus eats supper befo' dark and takes a blanket
and goes to de woods for to sleep. Alex Buford don't sleep in de house for one whole summer.

"No one knowed when de Klux comin'. All a-sudden up dey gallops on hosses, all covered with
hoods, and bust right into de house. Jus' latches 'stead of locks was used dem days. Dey comes
sev'ral times to Alex' house but never cotches him. I'd hear dem comin' when dey hit de lane
and I'd holler, 'De Klux am comin'.' It was my job, after dark, listenin' for dem Klux, den
I gits under de bed.

"Why dey comes so many times round dere, am 'cause de second time dey comes, Jane Bensom am
dere. Jane am lots of woman, wide as de door and tall, and weighs 'bout three hunder pounds.
I calls, 'Here comes de Klux,' and makes for under de bed. There am embers in de fireplace
and she fills a pail with dem and when de Klux busts in de door she lets dem have de embers
in de face, and den out de back door she goes. Two of dem am burnt purty bad. De nex' night
back dey comes and asks where Jane am. She 'longs to Massa John Ditto and am so big everybody
knows her, but de niggers won't tell on her. She leaves de country fin'ly, but dey comes lookin'
for her every night for two months.

"Right over on Massa Ditto's place, am a killin' of a baby by dem Klux. De baby am in de mammy's
arms and a bunch of Klux ridin' by takes a shot at de mammy, and it hits de baby and kills it.

"Right after de baby killin', sojers with blue coats comes dere and camps front of Massa Buford's
place and pertects de cullud folks. I goes over to dey camp every day and dey gives me lots
of good eats.

"De cullud folks has lots of trouble after de war, 'cause dey am ir'rant niggers and gits foolishment
in de head. They gits de idea de white folks should give dem land and mules and sich. Over
in de valley, Massa Moses owns lots of land and fifty nigger families, and he gives each family
a deed to 'bout fifty acres. Some dem cullud folks grandchillen still on dat land, too, de
Parkers and Farrows and Nelsons and some others. Den all de other niggers thinks dey should
git land, too, but dey don't, and it make dem git foolishment and git in trouble.

"In 1897 I marries Effie Coleman and has no chillens, so I is alone in de world now. I can't
do much and lives on de $10.00 de month pension. De white folks lets me live in dis shack for
mowin' de lawn, but I worries 'bout when I can't do no more work. It am de awful way to spend
you last days.

420163

     PIERCE HARPER, 86, was born on the Subbs plantation near Snow Hill,
     North Carolina. When eight years old he was sold for $1,150
     [Handwritten Note: '?'] to the Harper family, who lived in Snow
     Hill. After the Civil War, Pierce farmed a small place near Snow
     Hill and saw many raids of the Klu Klux Klan. He came to Galveston,
     Texas, in 1877. Pierce attended a Negro school after he was grown,
     learned to read and write, and is interested in the betterment of
     his race.

"When you ask me is I Pierce Harper, you kind of 'sprised me. I reckoned everybody know old
Pierce Harper. Sister Johnson say to me outside of services last Sunday night, 'Brother Harper,
you is de beatines' man I ever seen. You know everybody and everybody know you.' And I said,
'Sister Johnson, dat's 'cause I keep faith with de Lawd. I love de Lawd and my neighbors and
de Lawd and my neighbors love me.' Dat's what my old mother told me 'way back in slavery, before
I was ever sold. But here I is talking 'bout myself when you want to hear me talk 'bout slavery.
Let's see, now.

"I was born way back in 1851 in North Carolina, on Mr. Subbs' plantation, clost to Snow Hill,
which was the county seat. My daddy was a field hand and my mother worked in the fields, too,
right 'longside my daddy, so she could keep him lined up. The master said that Calisy, that
my mother, was the best fieldhand he had, and Calvin, that my daddy, was the laziest. My mother
used to say he was chilesome.

"Then when I was eight years old they sold me. The market place was in Snow Hill on the public
square near the jailhouse. It was jus' a little stand built out in the open with no top on
it, that the slaves stood on to get sold while the white folks auctioned 'em off. I was too
little to get on the stand, so they had to hold me up and Mr. Harper bought me for $1,100.
[Handwritten Note: '?'] That was cheap for a boy.

"He lived in a brick house in town and had two-three slaves 'sides me. I run errands and kept
the yard clean, things a little boy could do. They didn't have no school for slaves and I never
learned to read and write till after freedom. After I was sold, they let me go visit my mother
once a year, on Sunday morning, and took me back at night.

"The masters couldn't whip the slaves there. The law said in black and white no master couldn't
whip no slave, no matter what he done. When a slave got bad they took him to the county seat
and had him whipped. One day I seen my old daddy get whipped by the county and state 'cause
he wouldn't work. They had a post in the public square what they tied 'em to and a man what
worked for the county whipped 'em.

"After he was whipped my daddy run away to the north. Daddy come by when I was cleanin' the
yard and said, 'Pierce, go 'round side the house, where nobody can't see us.' I went and he
told me goodbye, 'cause he was goin' to run away in a few days. He had to stay in the woods
and travel at night and eat what he could find, berries and roots and things. They never caught
him and after he crossed the Mason-Dixon line he was safe.

"There used to be a man who raised bloodhounds to hunt slaves with. I seen the dogs on the
trail a whole day and still not catch 'em. Sometimes the slave made friends with the dogs and
they wouldn't let on if they found him. Three dogs followed one slave the whole way up north
and he sold them up there.

"I heered 'em talk about some slaves what run barefooted in cold weather and you could trail
'em by blood in the snow and ice where they hurt their feet.

"Most of the time the master gave us castor oil when we were sick. Some old folks went in the
woods for herbs and made medicine. They made tea out of 'lion's tongue' for the stomach and
snake root is good for pains in the stomach, too. Horse mint breaks the fever. They had a vermifuge
weed.

"I seed a lot of Southern soldiers and they'd go to the big house for something to eat. Late
in '63 they had a fight at a place called Kingston, only 12 miles from our place, takin' how
the jacks go. We could hear the guns go off when they was fightin'. The Yankees beat and settled
down there and the cullud folks flocked down on them and when they got to the Yankee lines
they was safe. They went in droves of 25 or 50 to the Yankees and they put 'em to work fightin'
for freedom. They fit till the war was over and a lot of 'em got kilt. My mother and sister
run away to the Yankees and they paid 'em big money to wash for 'em.

"When peace come they read the 'mancipation law to the cullud people and they stayed up half
the night at Mr. Harper's, singing and shouting. They spent that night singin' and shoutin'.
They wasn't slaves no more. The master had to give 'em a half or third of what he made. Our
master parceled out some land to 'em and told 'em to work it their selves and some done real
well. They got hosses that the soldiers had turned loose to die, and fed them and took good
care of 'em and they got good stock that way. Cotton was twenty and thirty cents a pound then.

"After us cullud folks was 'sidered free and turned loose, the Klu Klux broke out. Some cullud
people started to farmin', like I told you, and gathered the old stock. If they got so they
made good money, and had a good farm, the Klu Klux would come and murder 'em. The gov'ment
builded school houses and the Klu Klux went to work and burned 'em down. They'd go to the jails
and take the cullud men out and knock their brains out and break their necks and throw 'em
in the river.

"There was a cullud man they taken, his name was Jim Freeman. They taken him and destroyed
his stuff and him, 'cause he was making some money. Hung him on a tree in his front yard, right
in front of his cabin.

"There was some cullud young men went to the schools they'd opened by the gov'ment. Some white
woman said someone had stole something of hers so they put them young men in jail. The Klu
Klux went to the jail and took 'em out and killed 'em. That happened the second year after the War.

"After the Klu Kluxes got so strong the cullud men got together and made the complaint before
the law. The Gov'nor told the law to give 'em the old guns in the com'sary, what the Southern
soldiers had used, so they issued the cullud men old muskets and said protect themselves. They
got together and organized the militia and had leaders like reg'lar soldiers. They didn't meet
'cept when they heered the Klu Kluxes was coming to get some cullud folks. Then they was ready
for 'em. They'd hide in the cabins and then's when they found out who a lot of them Klu Kluxes
was, 'cause a lot of 'em was kilt. They wore long sheets and covered the hosses with sheets
so you couldn't rec'nize 'em. Men you thought was your friend was Klu Kluxes and you'd deal
with 'em in stores in the daytime and at night they'd come out to your house and kill you.
I never took part in none of the fights, but I heered the others talk 'bout them, but not where
them Klu Klux could hear 'em.

"One time they had 12 men in jail, 'cused of robbin' white folks. All was white in jail but
one, and he was cullud. The Klu Kluxes went to the jailor's house and got the jail key and
got them men out and carried 'em to the River Bridge, in the middle. Then they knocked their
brains out and threw 'em in the river.

"We was 'fraid of them Klu Kluxes and come to town, to Snow Hill. We rented a little house
and my mother took in washing and ironing. I went to school and learned to read and write,
then worked on farms, and fin'ly went to Columbia, in South Carolina, and worked in the turpentine
country. I stayed there a while and got married.

"I come to Texas in 1877 and Galveston was a little pen then, a little mess. I worked for some
white people and then went to Houston and it wasn't nothing but a mudhole. So I messed 'round
in South Carolina again a while and then come back to Galveston.

"The Lawd called me then and I answered and I answered and was preacher here at the Union Baptist
Church, on 11th and K, 'bout 25 years.

"I knowed Wright Cuney well and he held the biggest place a cullud man ever helt in Galveston.
He was congressman and the white people looked up to him just like he was white.

"Durin' the Spanish-American War I went to Washington, D.C., to see my sister and got in the
soldier business. The gov'ment give me $30.00 a month for drivin' a four-mule wagon for the
army. I druv all through Pennsylvania and Virginia and South Carolina for the gov'ment. I was
a----what do they call a laborer in the army?

"When war was over I come back here and now I'm too old to work and the state gives me a pension
and me and my granddaughter live on that. The young folks is makin' their mark now. One thing
about 'em, they get educated, but there's not much for them to do when they get finished with
school but walk the streets now. I been always trying to help my people to rise 'bove their
station and they are rising all the time, and some day they'll be free."

420298

     MOLLY HARRELL was born a slave on the Swanson plantation, near
     Palestine, Texas. She was a housegirl, but must have been too small
     to do much work. She does not know her age, but thinks she was
     about seven when she was freed. Molly lives at 3218 Ave H.,
     Galveston, Texas.

"Don't you tell nobody dat I use to be a slave. I 'most forgot it myself till you got round
me jes' den. Course, I ain't blamin' you for it, but what you done say 'bout all de plantations
havin' schools was wrong, so I jes' had to tell you I been a slave myself. It jes' slip out.

"Like I jes' say, I knows what I's talkin' 'bout, 'cause I use to be a slave myself and I don't
know how to read and write. Dat why I say I can't see so good. It don't do to let folks know
dey's smarter'n you, 'cause den dey got you right where dey wants you. Now, Will, dat de man
I's marry to, am younger'n me but he don't know it. When you git marry, you don't tell de man
how old you is. He wouldn't have you if you did. 'Course, Will ain't so young heself, but he's
born after de war and I's born durin' slavery, so dat make me older.

"Mr. Swanson use to own de big plantation in Palestine. Everybody in dat part de country knowed
him. He use to live in a plain, wood house on de Palestine road. My mother use to cook and
wait on tables. John was my father.

"Dey use to have de little whip dey use on de women. Course de field hands got it worse, but
den, dey was men. Mr. Swanson was good and he was mean. He was nice one day and mean as Hades
de next. You never knowed what he gwine to do. But he never punish nobody 'cept dey done somethin'.
My father was a field hand, and Mr. Swanson work de fire out dem. Work, work--dat all dey know
from time dey git up in de mornin' till dey went to bed at night. But he wasn't hard on dem
like some masters was. If dey sick, dey didn't habe to work and he give dem de med'cine hisself.
If he cotch dem tryin' play off sick, den he lay into dem, or if he cotch dem loafin'. Course,
I don't blame him for dat, 'cause dere ain't anythin' lazier dan a lazy nigger. Will am 'bout
de laziest one in de bunch. You ain't never find a lazier nigger dan Will.

"I was purty little den, but I done my share. I holp my mother dust and clean up de house and
peel 'tatoes. Dere some old men dat too old to work so dey sot in de sun all day and holp with
de light work. Dey carry grub and water to de field hands.

"Somebody run 'way all de time and hide in de woods till dere gut pinch dem and den dey have
to come back and git somethin' to eat. Course, dey got beat, but dat didn't worry dem none,
and it not long till dey gone 'gain.

"My mother sold into slavery in Georgia, or round dere. She tell me funny things 'bout how
dey use to do up dere. A old white man think so much of he old nigger when he die he free dat
nigger in he will, and lef' him a little money. He open de blacksmith shop and buy some slaves.
Mother allus say dose free niggers make de hardes' masters. One in Palestine marry a nigger
slave and buy her from her master. Den he tell everybody he own a slave.

"Everybody talk 'bout freedom and hope to git free 'fore dey die. I 'member de first time de
Yankees pass by, my mother lift me up on de fence. Dey use to pass by with bags on de mules
and fill dem with stuff from de houses. Dey go in de barn and holp deyself. Dey go in de stables
and turn out de white folks' hosses and run off what dey don't take for deyself.

"Den one night I 'member jes' as well, me and my mother was settin' in de cabin gettin' ready
to go to bed, when us hear somebody call my mother. We listen and de overseer whisper under
de door and told my mother dat she free but not to tell nobody. I don't know why he done it.
He allus like my mother, so I guess he do it for her. The master reads us de paper right after
dat and say us free.

"Me and my mother lef' right off and go to Palestine. Most everybody else go with us. We all
walk down de road singin' and shoutin' to beat de band. My father come nex' day and jine us.
My sister born dere. Den us go to Houston and Louisiana for a spell and I hires out to cook.
I works till us come to Galveston 'bout ten year ago.

420316

Dibble, Fred, P.W., Beehler, Rheba, P.W., Beaumont, Jefferson, Dist. #3.

     ANN HAWTHORNE, Beaumont, Tex., was clad in a white dress which was
     protected by a faded blue checked apron. On her feet she wore men's
     bedroom slippers much too large for her, and to prevent their
     falling off, were tied around the ankle by rag strings. She wore
     silk hose with the heels completely worn out of them. Her figure is
     generous in proportions, and her hair snow white, fixed in little
     pig tails and wrapped in black string. Ann related her story in a
     deep voice and a jovial manner. Although born and raised in Jasper
     county, she speaks boastfully about having been to Houston.

"If you's lookin' for Ann Hawthorne, dis is me. I was bo'n in slavery, and I was a right sizeable
gal when freedom come. I was 'bout 10 or 12 year' ol' when freedom riz up."

"I was bo'n up here in Jasper. Ol' marster Woodruff Norsworthy and Miss Ca'lina, dey was my
ol' marster and mistus. Miss Ca'lina she name' me."

"My pa was Len Norsworthy. My ma was name Ca'line after ol' mistus. Dat how come I 'member
ol' mistus name so good. I got fo' brudders livin', but nary a sister. My brudders is Newton
and Silas and Willie and Frank. I say dey's livin'. I mean dat de las' time I heard of 'em
dey was livin'."

"Yas, I 'member de house I was raise in. It was jis' a one-room log house. Dey was a ol' Geo'gia
hoss bed in it. It was up pretty high and us chillun had to git on a box to git in dat bed.
De mattress was mek outer straw. Sometime dey mek 'em in co'n sacks and sometime dey put 'em
in a tick what dey weave on de loom. I had a aunt what was de weaver. She weave all de time
for ol' marster. She uster weave all us clo's."

"My ma she was jis' a fiel' han' but my gramma and my aunt dey hab dem for wuk 'roun' de house.
I didn' do nuthin' but chu'n (churn) and clean de yard, and sweep 'roun' and go to de spring
and tote de water. I l'arn how to hoe, too."

"Dat was a big plantation. Fur as I kin 'member I t'ink dey was 'bout 25 or 30 slaves on de
place. You see I done git ol' and childish and I can't 'member like what I uster could. I 'member
though, dat my pa uster drive a team for ol' marster. Sometime he fiel' han' on de plantation,
too."

"Ol' marster he was good to his slaves. I heerd of slaves bein' whip' but I ain't never see
any git whip. Dey was a overseer on de place and iffen dey was any whippin' to be did, he done it."

"Me? I never did git no lickin's when I was a li'l slave. No mam. I allus did obey jis' like
I was teached to do and dey didn' hafter whip me. I 'members dat."

"We done our playin' 'roun' dat big house, but dat front gate, we dassen' go outside dat. We
uster jump de rope and play ring plays and sich. You know how dey yoke dey han's togedder?
Dat de way us uster do and go 'roun' and 'roun' singin' our li'l jumped up songs. Den us jis'
play 'roun' lots of times anyt'ing what happen to come up in our min's."

"Dey feed us good back in slavery. Give us plenty of meat and bread and greens and t'ings.
Ye, dey feed us good and us had plenty. Dey give us plenty of co'nbread. Dat's de reason I's
a co'nbread eater now. I ain't no flour-bread eater. I lubs my co'nbread. Us all eat outer
one big pan. Dey give each li'l nigger a big iron spoon and us sho' go to it. Dey give us milk
in a sep'rate vessel, and dey give eb'ryone a slice of meat in our greens. And dey never dassent
tek de other feller's piece of meat. Eb'ryt'ing better go 'long smoove wid us chillun. We better
eat and shut our mouf. We dassent raise no squall."

"I tell dese chillun here dey ain't know nuffin'. Dey got dey glass. We had our li'l go'ds
(gourds) pretty and clean and white. I wish I had one of dem ol' time go'ds now to drink my
milk outer."

"In good wedder dey feed us under a big tree out in de yard. And us better leave eb'ryt'ing
clean and no litter 'roun'. In de winter time dey fed us in de kitchen."

"Us gals wo' plain, long waisted dress. Dey was cut straight and wid long waist and dey button
down de back."

"Dey was a cullud man what mek shoes for de slaves to wear in de winter time. He mek 'em outer
rough red russet ledder. Dat ledder was hard and lots of times it mek blister on us feet. I
uster be glad when summer time come so's I could go barefoot."

"Dey had cabins for de slaves to live in. Dere was jis' one room and one family to de cabin.
Some of 'em was bigger dan others and dey put a big family in a big cabin and a li'l family
in a li'l cabin."

"I never see no slaves bought and sol'. I heerd my gramma and ma say dey ol' marster wouldn'
sell none of his slaves."

"I heerd 'bout dem broom-stick marriages, but I ain't never seed none. Dat was dey law in dem
days."

"Dey didn' know nuffin' 'bout preachin' and Sunday School in dem times. De fus' preachin' I
heerd was atter dat. I hear a white preacher preach. He uster preach to de white folks in de
mornin' and de cullud folks in de afternoons. But de slaves some of 'em uster had family prayer
meetings to deyselfs."

"De ol' marster he didn' work he han's on Sunday and he give 'em half de day off on Sadday,
too. But he never give 'em a patch to work for deyself. Dat half a day off on Sadday was for
de slaves to wash and clean up deyselfs."

"I never git marry 'till way atter freedom come. Dat was up in Jasper county where I's bred
and bo'n. I marry Hyman Hawthorne. Near as you kin guess, dat was 'bout 50 year' ago. Den he
die and lef' me wid eight chillun. My baby gal she ain't never see no daddy."

"Atter he dead I wash and iron and cook out and raise my chillun. I was raise up in de fiel'
all my life. When I git disable' to wuk in de time of de 'pressure (depression) I git on my
walkin' stick. I wag up town and I didn' fail to ax de white folks 'cause I wo' myself out
wukkin' for 'em. Dey load up my sack and sometime dey bring me stuff in a car right dere to
dat gate. But I's had two strokes and I ain't able to go to town no mo'."

"I tell you I never hear nuthin' 'bout chu'ch 'till way atter freedom. Sometime den us go to
chu'ch. Dey was one Mef'dis' Chu'ch and one Baptis' Chu'ch in Jasper. Dere moughta been a Cabilic
(Catholic) Chu'ch dere too, but I dunno 'bout dat."

"I don' 'member seein' no sojers. I t'ink some of ol' marster's boys went to de war but de
ol' man didn' go. I dunno 'bout wedder dey come back or not 'cep'n' I 'member dat Crab Norsworthy
he come back."

"When any of de slaves git sick ol' mistus and my gramma dey doctor 'em. De ol' mistus she
a pretty good doctor. When us chillun git sick dey git yarbs or dey give us castor oil and
turpentine. Iffen it git to be a ser'ous ailment dey sen' for de reg'lar doctor. Dey uster
hang asafoetida 'roun' us neck in a li'l bag to keep us from ketch' de whoopin' cough and de
measles."

"Dey was a gin and cotton press on de place. Ol' marster gin' and bale' he own cotton. Dat
ol' press had dem long arms a-stickin' down what dey hitch hosses to and mek 'em go 'roun'
and 'roun' and press de bale."

"Dey raise dey own t'bacco on de place. I didn' use snuff nor chew 'till after I growed up
and marry. Back in slavery you couldn' let 'em ketch you wid a chew of t'bacco or snuff in
your mouf. Iffen you did dey wouldn' let you forgit it."

"I uster like to go and play 'roun' de calfs, jis' go up and pet 'em and rub 'em. But we dassent
git on 'em to ride 'em."

"Marster uster sit 'roun' and watch us chillun play. He enjoy dat. He call me his Annie 'cause
I name' after my mistus. Sometime he hab a wagon load of watermilion haul' up from de fiel'
and cut 'em. Eb'ry chile hab a side of watermilion. And us hab all de sugar cane and sweet
'taters us want."

"Dey had a big smokehouse. Dey hab big hog killin' time, and dey dry and salt de meat in a
big long trough. Dey git oak and ash and hick'ry wood and mek a fire under it and smoke it.
My gramma toted de key to dat smokehouse and ol' mistus she'd tell her what to go and git for
de white folks and de cullud folks."

"When Crismus come 'roun' dey give us big eatin'. Us hab chicken and turkey and cake. I don'
'member dat dey give us no presents."

"My gramma and my ma and ol' man Norsworthy dey come from Alabama. I never hear of him breakin'
up a family. But when dey was livin' in Geo'gy, my ma marry a man name' Hawthorne in Geo'gy.
He wouldn' sell him to Marse Norsworthy when he come to Texas. Atter freedom marster go to
Geo'gy to git him and bring him to Texas, but he done raisin' up anudder family dere and won't
come. Li'l befo' she die her husban' come. When he 'bout wo' out and ready to die, den he come.
Some of de ol'es' chillun 'member dey daddy and dey crazy for him to come and dey mek up de
money for him. When he git here dey tek care of him 'till he die right dere at Olive. Ma tell
'em to write him he neenter (need not) come. She say he ain't no service to her. But he come
and de daughter tek care of her ma and pa bofe."

"I's got 8 gran'chillun and 5 great-gran'chillun. I 'vides (divide) my time 'tween my daughter
here and de one in Houston."

"You wants to tek my picture? Daughter, I don' want dat hat you got dere. Dat one of de chillun'
hats. Git dat li'l bonnet. Dat becomes me better. I can't stan' much sun. Dey say I's got high
blood pressue."

420186

     JAMES HAYES, 101, was born a slave to a plantation owner whose name
     he does not now recall, in Shelby Co., two miles from Marshall,
     Texas. Mr. John Henderson bought the place, six slaves and James
     and his mother. James, known as Uncle Jim, seems happy, still
     stands erect, and is very active for his age.

"Dis nigger have lived a long time, yas, suh! I's 101 years ole, 'cause I's bo'n Dec. 28, 1835.
Dat makes me 102 come nex' December. I can' 'member my fust marster's name, 'cause when I's
'bout two years ole, me and my sis, 'bout five, and our mammy was sol' to Marster John Henderson.
I don' 'member anything 'bout my pappy, but I 'member Marster Henderson jus' like 'twas las'
week. I's settin' hear a thinkin' of dem ole days when I's a li'l nigger a cuttin' up on ole
marster's plantation. How I did play roun' with de chilluns till I's big enough for to wo'k.
After I's 'bout 13, I jus' peddles roun' de house for 'bout a year, den 'twarn't long till
I hoes co'n and potatoes. Dere's six slaves on dat place and I coul' beat dem all a-hoein'.

"De marster takes good care of us and sometimes give us money, 'bout 25¢, and lets us go to
town. Dat's when we was happy and celebrates. We'uns spent all de money on candy and sweet
drinks. Marster never crowded us 'bout de wo'k, and never give any of us whuppin's. I's sev'ral
times needed a whuppin', but de marster never gives dis nigger more'n a good scoldin'. De nearest
I comes to gittin whupped, 'twas once when I stole a plate of biscuits offen de table. I warn't
in need of 'em, but de devil in me caused me to do it. Marster and all de folks comes in and
sets down, and he asks for de biscuits, and I's under de house and could hear 'em talk. De
cook says, 'I's put de biscuits on de table.' Marster says, 'If you did, de houn' got 'em.'
Cook says, 'If a houn' got 'em, 'twas a two-legged one, 'cause de plate am gone, too.' I's
made de mistake of takin' de plate. Marster give me de wors' scoldin' I ever has and dat larned
me a lesson.

"Not long after dat, Marster sol' my mammy to his brudder who lived in Fort Worth. When dey
took her away, I's powerful grieved. 'Bout dat time de War started. De marster and his boy,
Marster Ben, jined de army. De marster was a sergeant. De women folks was proud of dere men
folks, but dey was powerful grieved. All de time de men's away, I could tell Missy Elline and
her mamma was worried. Dey allus sen's me for de mail, and when I fotches it, dey run to meet
me, anxious like, to open de letter, and was skeert to do it. One day I fotches a letter and
I could feel it in my bones, dere was trouble in dat letter. Sure 'nough, dere was trouble,
heaps of it. It tells dat Marster Ben am kilt and dat dey was a shippin' him home. All de ole
folks, cullud and white, was cryin'. Missy Elline, she fainted. When de body comes home, dere's
a powerful big funeral and after dat, dere's powerful weepin's and sadness on dat place. De
women folks don' talk much and no laughin' like 'fore. I 'members once de missy asks me to
make a 'lasses cake. I says, 'I's got no 'lasses.' Missy says, 'Don' say 'lasses, say molasses.'
I says, 'Why say molasses when I's got no 'lasses.' Dat was de fus' time Missy laugh after
de funeral.

"Durin' de War, things was 'bout de same, like always, 'cept some vittles was scarce. But we'uns
had plenty to eat and us slaves didn' know what de War was 'bout. I guess we was too ign'rant.
De white folks didn' talk 'bout it 'fore us. When it's over, de Marster comes home and dey
holds a big celebration. I's workin' in de kitchen and dey tol' me to cook heaps of ham, chicken,
pies, cakes, sweet 'taters and lots of vegetables. Lots of white folks comes and dey eats and
drinks wine, dey sings and dances. We'uns cullud folks jined in and was singin' out in de back,
'Massa's in de Col', Har' Groun'. Marster asks us to come in and sing dat for de white folks,
so we'uns goes in de house and sings dat for de white folks and dey jines in de chorus.

"Three days after de celebration, de marster calls all de slaves in de house and says, 'Yous
is all free, free as I am.' He tol' us we'uns could go if we'uns wanted to. None of us knows
what to do, dere warn't no place to go and why would we'uns wan' to go and leave good folks
like de marster? His place was our home. So we'uns asked him if we could stay and he says,
'Yous kin stay as long as yous want to and I can keep yous.' We'uns all stayed till he died,
'bout a year after dat.

"When he was a-dyin', marster calls me to his bed and says, 'My dyin' reques' is dat yous be
taken to your mama.' He calls his son, Zeke, in and tells him dat I should be fotched to my
mamma. And 'bout in a year, Marster Zeke fotches me to my mamma, in Johnson Station, south
of Arlington. She's wo'kin' for Jack Ditto and I's pleased to see her.

I's pleased to see my mammy, but after a few days I wants to go back to Marshall with Marster
Zeke. Dat was my home, so I kep' pesterin' marster to fetch me back, but he slips off and leaves
me. I has to stay and I's been here ever since.

"I gits my fust job with Carter Cannon, on a farm, and stays seven years. Den I goes to Fort
Worth and takes a job cookin' in de Gran' Hotel for three years. Den I goes to Dallas and cooks
for private families, and wo'ks for Marster James Ellison for 30 years. I stops four years
ago and comes out here to wait till de good Lawd calls me home.

"Bout gittin' married, after I quits de Gran' Hotel I marries and we'uns has two chillen. My
wife died three years later.

"You knows, I believes I's mo' contented as a slave. I's treated kind all de time and had no
frettin' 'bout how I gwine git on. Since I's been free, I sometimes have heaps of frettin'.
Course, I don' want to go back into slavery, but I's paid for my freedom.

"I's never been sick abed, but I's had mo' misery dis las' year dan all my life. It's my heart.
If I live till December, I'll be 102 years old, and dis ole heart have been pumpin' and pumpin'
all dem years and have missed nary a beat till dis las' year. I knows 'twon't be long till
de good Lawd calls dis ole nigger to cross de Ribber Jordan and I's ready for de Lawd when
he calls.

420082

     FELIX HAYWOOD is a temperamental and whimsical old Negro of San
     Antonio, Texas, who still sees the sunny side of his 92 years, in
     spite of his total blindness. He was born and bred a slave in St.
     Hedwig, Bexar Co., Texas, the son of slave parents bought in
     Mississippi by his master, William Gudlow. Before and during the
     Civil War he was a sheep herder and cowpuncher. His autobiography is
     a colorful contribution, showing the philosophical attitude of the
     slaves, as well as shedding some light upon the lives of slave
     owners whose support of the Confederacy was not accompanied by
     violent hatred of the Union.

"Yes, sir, I'm Felix Haywood, and I can answer all those things that you want to know. But,
first, let me ask you this: Is you all a white man, or is you a black man?"

"I'm black, blacker than you are," said the caller.

The eyes of the old blind Negro,--eyes like two murkey brown marbles--actually twinkled. Then
he laughed:

"No, you ain't. I knowed you was white man when you comes up the path and speaks. I jus' always
asks that question for fun. It makes white men a little insulted when you dont know they is
white, and it makes niggers all conceited up when you think maybe they is white."

And there was the key note to the old Negro's character and temperament. He was making a sort
of privileged game with a sportive twist out of his handicap of blindness.

As the interviewer scribbled down a note, the door to the little shanty on Arabella Alley opened
and a backless chair was carried out on the porch by a vigorous old colored woman. She was
Mrs. Ella Thompson, Felix' youngest sister, who had known only seven years of slavery. After
a timid "How-do-you-do," and a comment on the great heat of the June day, she went back in
the house. Then the old Negro began searching his 92 years of reminiscences, intermixing his
findings with philosophy, poetry and prognostications.

"It's a funny thing how folks always want to know about the War. The war weren't so great as
folks suppose. Sometimes you didn't knowed it was goin' on. It was the endin' of it that made
the difference. That's when we all wakes up that somethin' had happened. Oh, we knowed what
was goin' on in it all the time, 'cause old man Gudlow went to the post office every day and
we knowed. We had papers in them days jus' like now.

"But the War didn't change nothin'. We saw guns and we saw soldiers, and one member of master's
family, Colmin Gudlow, was gone fightin'--somewhere. But he didn't get shot no place but one--that
was in the big toe. Then there was neighbors went off to fight. Some of 'em didn't want to
go. They was took away (conscription). I'm thinkin' lots of 'em pretended to want to go as
soon as they had to go.

"The ranch went on jus' like it always had before the war. Church went on. Old Mew Johnson,
the preacher, seen to it church went on. The kids didn't know War was happenin'. They played
marbles, see-saw and rode. I had old Buster, a ox, and he took me about plenty good as a horse.
Nothin' was different. We got layed-onto(whipped) time on time, but gen'rally life was good--just
as good as a sweet potato. The only misery I had was when a black spider bit me on the ear.
It swelled up my head and stuff came out. I was plenty sick and Dr. Brennen, he took good care
of me. The whites always took good care of people when they was sick. Hospitals couldn't do
no better for you today.... Yes, maybe it was a black widow spider, but we called it the 'devil
biter'.

"Sometimes someone would come 'long and try to get us to run up North and be free. We used
to laugh at that. There wasn't no reason to =run= up North. All we had to do was to =walk=,
but walk =South=, and we'd be free as soon as we crossed the Rio Grande. In Mexico you could
be free. They didn't care what color you was, black, white, yellow or blue. Hundreds of slaves
did go to Mexico and got on all right. We would hear about 'em and how they was goin' to be
Mexicans. They brought up their children to speak only Mexican.

"Me and my father and five brothers and sisters weren't goin' to Mexico. I went there after
the war for a while and then I looked 'round and decided to get back. So I come back to San
Antonio and I got a job through Colonel Breckenridge with the waterworks. I was handling pipes.
My foreman was Tom Flanigan--he must have been a full-blooded Frenchman!

"But what I want to say is, we didn't have no idea of runnin' and escapin'. We was happy. We
got our lickings, but just the same we got our fill of biscuits every time the white folks
had 'em. Nobody knew how it was to lack food. I tell my chillen we didn't know no more about
pants than a hawg knows about heaven; but I tells 'em that to make 'em laugh. We had all the
clothes we wanted and if you wanted shoes bad enough you got 'em--shoes with a brass square
toe. And shirts! Mister, them was shirts that was shirts! If someone gets caught by his shirt
on a limb of a tree, he had to die there if he weren't cut down. Them shirts wouldn't rip no
more'n buckskin.

"The end of the war, it come jus' like that--like you snap your fingers."

"How did you know the end of the war had come?" asked the interviewer.

"How did we know it! Hallelujah broke out--

    "'Abe Lincoln freed the nigger
    With the gun and the trigger;
  And I ain't goin' to get whipped any more.
    I got my ticket,
    Leavin' the thicket,
  And I'm a-headin' for the Golden Shore!'

"Soldiers, all of a sudden, was everywhere--comin' in bunches, crossin' and walkin' and ridin'.
Everyone was a-singin'. We was all walkin' on golden clouds. Hallelujah!

  "'Union forever,
  Hurrah, boys, hurrah!
  Although I may be poor,
  I'll never be a slave--
  Shoutin' the battle cry of freedom.'

"Everybody went wild. We all felt like heroes and nobody had made us that way but ourselves.
We was free. Just like that, we was free. It didn't seem to make the whites mad, either. They
went right on giving us food just the same. Nobody took our homes away, but right off colored
folks started on the move. They seemed to want to get closer to freedom, so they'd know what
it was--like it was a place or a city. Me and my father stuck, stuck close as a lean tick to
a sick kitten. The Gudlows started us out on a ranch. My father, he'd round up cattle, unbranded
cattle, for the whites. They was cattle that they belonged to, all right; they had gone to
find water 'long the San Antonio River and the Guadalupe. Then the whites gave me and my father
some cattle for our own. My father had his own brand, 7 B ), and we had a herd to start out
with of seventy.

"We knowed freedom was on us, but we didn't know what was to come with it. We thought we was
goin' to get rich like the white folks. We thought we was goin' to be richer than the white
folks, 'cause we was stronger and knowed how to work, and the whites didn't and they didn't
have us to work for them anymore. But it didn't turn out that way. We soon found out that freedom
could make folks proud but it didn't make 'em rich.

"Did you ever stop to think that thinking don't do any good when you do it too late? Well,
that's how it was with us. If every mother's son of a black had thrown 'way his hoe and took
up a gun to fight for his own freedom along with the Yankees, the war'd been over before it
began. But we didn't do it. We couldn't help stick to our masters. We couldn't no more shoot
'em than we could fly. My father and me used to talk 'bout it. We decided we was too soft and
freedom wasn't goin' to be much to our good even if we had a education."

The old Negro was growing very tired, but, at a request, he instantly got up and tapped his
way out into the scorching sunshine to have his photograph taken. Even as he did so, he seemed
to smile with those blurred, dead eyes of his. Then he chuckled to himself and said:

  "'Warmth of the wind
  And heat of the South,
  And ripe red cherries
  For a ripe, red mouth.'"

"Land sakes, Felix!" came through the window from sister Ella. "How you carries on! Don't you
be a-mindin' him, mister."

420096

     PHOEBE HENDERSON, a 105 year old Negro of Harrison Co., was born a
     slave of the Bradley family at Macon, Georgia. After the death of
     her mistress, Phoebe belonged to one of the daughters, Mrs. Wiley
     Hill, who moved to Panola County, Texas in 1859, where Phoebe lived
     until after the Civil War. For the past 22 years she has lived with
     Mary Ann Butler, a daughter, about five miles east of Marshall, in
     Enterprise Friendship Community. She draws a pension of $16.00 a
     month.

"I was bo'n a slave of the Bradley family in Macon, Georgia. My father's name was Anthony Hubbard
and he belonged to the Hubbard's in Georgia. He was a young man when I lef' Georgia and I never
heard from him since. I 'member my mother; she had a gang of boys. Marster Hill brought her
to Texas with us.

"My ole missus name was Bradley and she died in Tennessee. My lil' missus was her daughter.
After dey brought us to Texas in 1859 I worked in the field many a day, plowin' and hoein',
but the children didn't do much work 'cept carry water. When dey git tired, dey'd say dey was
sick and the overseer let 'em lie down in de shade. He was a good and kindly man and when we
do wrong and go tell him he forgave us and he didn't whip the boys 'cause he was afraid they'd
run away.

"I worked in de house, too. I spinned seven curts a day and every night we run two looms, makin'
large curts for plow lines. We made all our clothes. We didn't wear shoes in Georgia but in
this place the land was rough and strong, so we couldn't go barefooted. A black man that worked
in the shop measured our feet and made us two pairs a year. We had good houses and dey was
purty good to us. Sometimes missus give us money and each family had their garden and some
chickens. When a couple marry, the master give them a house and we had a good time and plenty
to wear and to eat. They cared for us when we was sick.

"Master Wiley Hill had a big plantation and plenty of stock and hawgs, and a big turnip patch.
He had yellow and red oxen. We never went to school any, except Sunday school. We'd go fishin'
often down on the creek and on Saturday night we'd have parties in the woods and play ring
plays and dance.

"My husband's name was David Henderson and we lived on the same place and belonged to the same
man. No, suh, Master Hill didn't have nothin' to do with bringin' us together. I guess God
done it. We fell in love, and David asked Master Hill for me. We had a weddin' in the house
and was married by a colored Baptist preacher. I wore a white cotton dress and Missus Hill
give me a pan of flour for a weddin' present. He give us a house of our own. My husband was
good to me. He was a careful man and not rowdy. When we'd go anywhere we'd ride horseback and
I'd ride behin' him.

"I's scared to talk 'bout when I was freed. I 'member the soldiers and that warrin' and fightin'.
Toby, one of the colored boys, joined the North and was a mail messenger boy and he had his
horse shot out from under him. But I guess its a good thing we was freed, after all.

420007

     ALBERT HILL, 81, was born a slave of Carter Hill, who owned a
     plantation and about 50 slaves, in Walton Co., Georgia. Albert
     remained on the Hill place until he was 21, when he went to
     Robinson Co., Texas. He now lives at 1305 E. 12th St., Fort Worth,
     Texas, in a well-kept five-room house, on a slope above the Trinity
     River.

"I was born on Massa Carter Hill's plantation, in Georgia, and my name am Albert Hill. My papa's
name was Dillion, 'cause he taken dat name from he owner, Massa Tom Dillion. He owned de plantation
next to Massa Hill's, and he owned my mammy and us 13 chillen. I don't know how old I is, but
I 'members de start of de war, and I was a sizeable chile den.

"De plantation wasn't so big and wasn't so small, jus' fair size, but it am fixed first class
and everything am good. We has good quarters made out of logs and lots of tables and benches,
what was made of split logs. We has de rations and massa give plenty of de cornmeal and beans
and 'lasses and honey. Sometimes we has tea, and once in a while we gits coffee. And does we
have de tasty and tender hawg meat! I'd like to see some of dat hawg meat now.

"Massa am good but he don't 'low de parties. But we kin go to Massa Dillion's place next to
us and dey has lots of parties and de dances. We dances near all night Saturday night, but
we has to stay way in de back where de white folks can't hear us. Sometimes we has de fiddle
and de banjo and does we cut dat chicken wing and de shuffle! We sho' does.

"I druv de ox, and drivin' dat ox am agitation work in de summer time when it am hot, 'cause
dey runs for water every time. But de worst trouble I ever has is with one hoss. I fotches
de dinner to de workers out in de field and I use dat hoss, hitched to de two-wheel cart. One
day him am halfway and dat hoss stop. He look back at me, a-rollin' de eye, and I knows what
dat mean--'Here I stays, nigger.' But I heered to tie de rope on de balky hosses tail and run
it 'twixt he legs and tie to de shaft. I done dat and puts some cuckleburrs on de rope, too.
Den I tech him with de whip and he gives de rear back'ards. Dat he best rear. When he do dat
it pull de rope and de rope pull de tail and de burrs gits busy. Dat hoss moves for'ard faster
and harder den what he ever done 'fore, and he keep on gwine. You see, he am trying git 'way
from he tail, but de tail am too fast. Course, it stay right behin' him. Den I's in de picklement.
Dat hoss am runnin' away and I can't stop him. De workers lines up to stop him but de cart
give de shove and dat pull he tail and, lawdy whoo, dat hose jump for'ard like de jackrabbit
and go through dat line of workers. So I steers him into de fence row, and dere's no more runnin',
but an awful mix-up with de hoss and de cart and de rations. Dat hoss so sceered him have de
quavers. Massa say, 'What you doin'?' I says, 'Break de balk.' He say, 'Well, yous got everything
else broke. We'll see 'bout de balk later.'

Massa has de daughter, Mary, and she want to marry Bud Jackson, but massa am 'gainst it. Bud
am gwine to de army and dat give dis boy work, 'cause I de messenger boy for him and Missy
Mary. Dey keeps company unbeknownst and I carry de notes. I puts de paper in de hollow stump.
Once I's sho' I's kotched. Dere am de massa and he say, 'Where you been, nigger?' I's sho'
skeert and I says, 'I's lookin' for de squirrels.' So massa goes 'way and when I tells you
I's left, it ain't de proper word for to 'splain, 'cause I's flew from here.' I tells Missy
Mary and she say, 'You sho' am de Lawd's chosen nigger.'

"De 'federate soldiers comes and dey takes de rations, but de massa has dug de pit in de pasture
and buried lots of de rations, so de soldiers don't find so much. De clostest battle was Atlanta,
more dan 25 mile 'way.

"When de war come over, Bud Jackson he come home. De massa welcome him, to de sprise of everybody,
and when Bud say he want to marry Missy Mary, massa say, 'I guesses you has earnt her.'

"When freedom am here, massa call all us together and tells us 'bout de difference 'tween freedom
and hustlin' for ourselves and dependin' on someone else. Most of de slaves stays, and massa
pays them for de work, and I stays till I's 21 year old, and I gits $7.00 de month and de clothes
and de house and all I kin eat. De massa have died 'fore dat, and dere am powerful sorrow.
Missy Mary and Massa Bud has de plantation den, and dey don't want me to go to Texas. But dey
goes on de visit and while dey gone I takes de train for Robinson County, what am in Texas.

"I works at de pavin' work and at de hostlin' work and I works on de hosses. Den I works for
de Santa Fe railroad, handlin' freight, and I works till 'bout three year ago, when I gits
too old for to work no more.

"But I tells you 'bout de visit back to de old plantation. I been gone near 40 year and I 'cides
to go back, so I reaches de house and dere am Missy Mary peelin' apples on de back gallery.
She looks at me, and she say, 'I got whippin' waiting for yous, 'cause you run off without
tellin' us.' Dere wasn't no more peelin' dat day, 'cause we sits and talks 'bout de old times
and de old massa. Dere sho' am de tears in dis nigger's eyes. Den we talks 'bout de nigger
messenger I was, and we laughs a little. All day long we talks a little, and laughs and cries
and talks. I stays 'bout two weeks and seed lots of de folks I knowed when I was young, de
white folks and de niggers, too.

"I's too old to make any more visits, but I would like to go back to Old Georgia once more.
If Missy Mary was 'live, I'd try, but she am dead, so I tries to wait for old Gabriel blow
he horn. When he blow he horn, dis nigger say, 'Louder, Gabriel, louder!'

420308

     ROSINA HOARD does not know just where she was born. The first thing
     she remembers is that she and her parents were purchased by Col.
     Pratt Washington, who owned a plantation near Garfield, in Travis
     County, Texas. Rosina, who is a very pleasant and sincere person,
     says she has had a tough life since she was free. She receives a
     monthly pension of fourteen dollars, for which she expresses
     gratitude. Her address is 1301 Chestnut St., Austin, Tex.

"When I's a gal, I's Rosina Slaughter, but folks call me Zina. Yes, sar. It am Zina dat and
Zina dis. I says I's born April 9, 1859, but I 'lieve I's older. It was somewhere in Williamson
County, but I don't know the massa's name. My mammy was Lusanne Slaughter and she was stout
but in her last days she got to be a li'l bit of a woman. She died only last spring and she
was a hunerd eleven years old.

"Papa was a Baptist preacher to de day of he death. He had asthma all his days. I 'member how
he had de sorrel hoss and would ride off and preach under some arbor bush. I rid with him on
he hoss.

"First thing I 'member is us was bought by Massa Col. Pratt Washington from Massa Lank Miner.
Massa Washington was purty good man. He boys, George and John Henry, was de only overseers.
Dem boys treat us nice. Massa allus rid up on he hoss after dinner time. He hoss was a bay,
call Sank. De fields was in de bottoms of de Colorado River. De big house was on de hill and
us could see him comin'. He weared a tall, beaver hat allus.

"De reason us allus watch for him am dat he boy, George, try larn us our A B C's in de field.
De workers watch for massa and when dey seed him a-ridin' down de hill dey starts singin' out,
'Ole hawg 'round de bench--Ole hawg 'round de bench.'

"Dat de signal and den everybody starts workin' like dey have something after dem. But I's
too young to larn much in de field and I can't read today and have to make de cross when I
signs for my name.

"Each chile have he own wood tray. Dere was old Aunt Alice and she done all de cookin' for
de chillen in de depot. Dat what dey calls de place all de chillen stays till dere mammies
come home from de field. Aunt Alice have de big pot to cook in, out in de yard. Some days we
had beans and some day peas. She put great hunks of salt bacon in de pot, and bake plenty cornbread,
and give us plenty milk.

"Some big chillen have to pick cotton. Old Junus was de cullud overseer for de chillen and
he sure mean to dem. He carry a stick and use it, too.

"One day de blue-bellies come to de fields. Dey Yankee sojers, and tell de slaves dey free.
Some stayed and some left. Papa took us and move to de Craft plantation, not far 'way, and
farm dere.

"I been married three time. First to Peter Collinsworth. I quit him. Second to George Hoard.
We stayed togedder till he die, and have five chillen. Den I marries he brother, Jim Hoard.
I tells you de truth, Jim never did work much. He'd go fishin' and chop wood by de days, but
not many days. He suffered with de piles. I done de housework and look after de chillen and
den go out and pick two hunerd pound cotton a day. I was a cripple since one of my boys birthed.
I git de rheumatis' and my knees hurt so much sometime I rub wed sand and mud on dem to ease
de pain.

"We had a house at Barton Springs with two rooms, one log and one box. I never did like it
up dere and I told Jim I's gwine. I did, but he come and got me.

"Since freedom I's been through de toughs. I had to do de man's work, chop down trees and plow
de fields and pick cotton. I want to tell you how glad I is to git my pension. It is sure nice
of de folks to take care of me in my old age. Befo' I got de pension I had a hard time. You
can sho' say I's been through de toughs.

420286

     TOM HOLLAND was born in Walker County, Texas, and thinks he is
     about 97 years old. His master, Frank Holland, traded Tom to
     William Green just before the Civil War. After Tom was freed, he
     farmed both for himself and for others in the vicinity of his old
     home. He now lives in Madisonville, Texas.

"My owner was Massa Frank Holland, and I's born on his place in Walker County. I had one sister
named Gena and three brothers, named George and Will and Joe, but they's all dead now. Mammy's
name was Gena and my father's named Abraham Holland and they's brung from North Carolina to
Texas by Massa Holland when they's real young.

"I chopped cotton and plowed and split rails, then was a horse rider. In them days I could
ride the wildest horse what ever made tracks in Texas, but I's never valued very high 'cause
I had a glass eye. I don't 'member how I done got it, but there it am. I'd make a dollar or
fifty cents to ride wild horses in slavery time and massa let me keep it. I buyed tobacco and
candy and if massa cotch me with tobacco I'd git a whippin', but I allus slipped and bought
chewin' tobacco.

"We allus had plenty to eat, sich as it was them days, and it was good, plenty wild meat and
cornbread cooked in ashes. We toasted the meat on a open fire, and had plenty possum and rabbit
and fish.

"We wore them loyal shirts open all way down the front, but I never seed shoes till long time
after freedom. In cold weather massa tanned lots of hides and we'd make warm clothes. My weddin'
clothes was a white loyal shirt, never had no shoes, married barefooted.

"Massa Frank, he one real good white man. He was awful good to his Negroes. Missis Sally, she
a plumb angel. Their three chillen stayed with me nearly all the time, askin' this Negro lots
of questions. They didn't have so fine a house, neither, two rooms with a big hall through
and no windows and deer skins tacked over the door to keep out rain and cold. It was covered
with boards I helped cut after I got big 'nough.

"Massa Frank had cotton and corn and everything to live on, 'bout three hundred acres, and
overseed it himself, and seven growed slaves and five little slaves. He allus waked us real
early to be in the field when daylight come and worked us till slap dark, but let us have a
hour and a half at noon to eat and rest up. Sometimes when slaves got stubborn he'd whip them
and make good Negroes out of them, 'cause he was real good to them.

"I seed slaves sold and auctioned off, 'cause I's put up to the highest bidder myself. Massa
traded me to William Green jus' 'fore the war, for a hundred acres land at $1.00 a acre. He
thought I'd never be much 'count, 'cause I had the glass eye, but I'm still livin' and a purty
fair Negro to my age. All the hollerin' and bawlin' took place and when he sold me it took
me most a year to git over it, but there I was, 'longin' to 'nother man.

"If we went off without a pass we allus went two at a time. We slipped off when we got a chance
to see young folks on some other place. The patterrollers cotched me one night and, Lawd have
mercy on me, they stretches me over a log and hits thirty-nine licks with a rawhide loaded
with rock, and every time they hit me the blood and hide done fly. They drove me home to massa
and told him and he called a old mammy to doctor my back, and I couldn't work for four days.
That never kep' me from slippin' off 'gain, but I's more careful the next time.

"We'd go and fall right in at the door of the quarters at night, so massa and the patterrollers
thinks we's real tired and let us alone and not watch us. That very night we'd be plannin'
to slip off somewheres to see a Negro gal or our wife, or to have a big time, 'specially when
the moon shine all night so we could see. It wouldn't do to have torch lights. They was 'bout
all the kind of lights we had them days and if we made light, massa come to see what we're
doin', and it be jus' too bad then for the stray Negro!

"That there war brung suffrin' to lots of people and made a widow out of my missis. Massa William,
he go and let one them Yankees git him in one of them battles and they never brung him home.
Missis, she gits the letter from his captain, braggin' on his bravery, but that never helped
him after he was kilt in the war. She gits 'nother letter that us Negroes is free and she tells
us. We had no place to go, so we starts to cry and asks her what we gwine do. She said we could
stay and farm with her and work her teams and use her tools and land and pay her half of what
we made, 'sides our supplies. That's a happy bunch of Negroes when she told us this.

"Late in that evenin' the Negroes in Huntsville starts hollerin' and shoutin' and one gal was
hollerin' loud and a white man come ridin' on a hoss and leans over and cut that gal nearly
half in two and a covered wagon come along and picks her up and we never heared nothin' more.

"I married Imogene, a homely weddin' 'fore the war. We didn't have much to-do at our weddin'.
I asks missis if I could have Imogene and she says yes and that's all they was to our weddin'.
We had three boys and three gals, and Imogene died 'bout twenty years ago and I been livin'
with one child and 'nother. I gits a little pension from the gov'ment and does small jobs round
for the white people.

"I 'lieve they ought to have gived us somethin' when we was freed, but they turned us out to
graze or starve. Most of the white people turned the Negroes slam loose. We stayed a year with
missis and then she married and her husband had his own workers and told us to git out. We
worked for twenty and thirty cents a day then, and I fin'ly got a place with Dr. L.J. Conroe.
But after the war the Negro had a hard struggle, 'cause he was turned loose jus' like he came
into the world and no education or 'sperience.

"If the Negro wanted to vote the Klu Kluxes was right there to keep him from votin'. Negroes
was 'fraid to git out and try to 'xert they freedom. They'd ride up by a Negro and shoot him
jus' like a wild hawg and never a word said or done 'bout it.

"I's farmed and makin' a livin' is 'bout all. I come over here in Madison County and rents
from B.F. Young, clost to Midway and gits me a few cows. I been right round here ever since.
I lives round with my chillen now, 'cause I's gittin' too old to work.

"This young bunch of Negroes is all right some ways, but they won't tell the truth. They isn't
raised like the white folks raised us. If we didn't tell the truth our massa'd tear us all
to pieces. Of course, they is educated now and can get 'most any kind of work, some of them,
what we couldn't.

420052

     ELIZA HOLMAN, 82, was born a slave of the Rev. John Applewhite,
     near Clinton, Mississippi. In 1861 they came to Texas, settling
     near Decatur. Eliza now lives at 2507 Clinton Ave., Fort Worth,
     Texas.

"Talk 'bout de past from de time I 'members till now, slave days and all? Dat not so hard.
I knows what de past am, but what to come, dat am different. Dey says, 'Let de past be de guide
for de future,' but if you don't know de future road, hows you gwine guide? I's sho' glad to
tell you all I 'members, but dat am a long 'memberance.

"I know I's past 80, for sho', and maybe more, 'cause I's old 'nough to 'member befo' de war
starts. I 'members when de massa move to Texas by de ox team and dat am some trip! Dey loads
de wagon till dere ain't no more room and den sticks we'uns in, and we walks some of de time, too.

"My massa am a preacherman and have jus' three slaves, me and pappy and mammy. She am cook
and housekeeper and I helps her. Pappy am de field hand and de coachman and everything else
what am needed. We have a nice, two-room log house to live in and it am better den what mos'
slaves have, with de wood floor and real windows with glass in dem.

"Massa am good but he am strict. He don't have to say much when he wants you to do somethin'.
Dere am no honey words round de house from him, but when him am preachin' in de church, him
am different. He am honey man den. Massa could tell de right way in de church but it am hard
for him to act it at home. He makes us go to church every Sunday.

"But I's tellin' you how we'uns come to Texas. De meals am cook by de campfire and after breakfast
we starts and it am bump, bump, bump all day long. It am rocks and holes and mudholes, and
it am streams and rivers to cross. We'uns cross one river, musta been de Mississippi, and drives
on a big bridge and dey floats dat bridge right 'cross dat river.

"Massa and missus argues all de way to Texas. She am skeert mos' de time and he allus say de
Lawd take care of us. He say, 'De Lawd am a-guidin' us.' She say, 'It am fools guidin' and
a fool move for to start.' Dat de way dey talks all de way. And when we gits in de mudhole
'twas a argument 'gain. She say, 'Dis am some more of your Lawd's calls.' He say, 'Hush, hush,
woman. Yous gittin' sac'ligious.' So we has to walk two mile for a man to git his yoke of oxen
to pull us out dat mudhole, and when we out, massa say, 'Thank de Lawd.' And missus say, 'Thank
de mens and de oxen.'

"Den one day we'uns camps under a big tree and when we'uns woke in de mornin' dere am worms
and worms and worms. Millions of dem come off dat tree. Man, man, dat am a mess. Massa say
dey army worms and missus say, 'Why for dey not in de army den?'

"After we been in Texas 'bout a year, missy Mary gits married to John Olham. Missy Mary am
massa's daughter. After dat I lives with her and Massa John and den hell start poppin' for
dis nigger. Missy Mary am good but Massa John am de devil. Dat man sho' am cruel, he works
me to death and whups me for de leas' thing. My pappy say to me, 'You should 'come a runaway
nigger.' He runs 'way hisself and dat de las' time we hears of him.

"When surrender come I has to stay on with Massa Olham, 'cause I has no place to go and I's
too young to know how to do for myself. I stays 'bout till I's 16 year old and den I hunts
some place to work and gits it in Jacksboro and stays dere sev'ral years. I quits when I gits
married and dat 'bout nine year after de war end.

"I marries Dick Hines at Silver Creek and he am a farmer and a contrary man. He worked jus'
as hard at his contrariness as him did at his farmin'. Mercy, how distressin' and worryment
am life with dat nigger! I couldn't stand it no longer dan five year till I tooks my getaway.
De nex' year I marries Sam Walker what worked for cattlement here in Fort Worth and he died
'bout 20 year ago. Den 'twas 'bout 13 year ago I marries Jack Holman and he died in 1930. I's
sho' try dis marrin' business but I ain't gwine try it no more, no, suh.

"'Twixt all dem husbands and workin' for de white folks I gits 'long, but I's old and de last
few years I can't work. Dey pays me $12.00 de month from de State and dat's what I lives on.
Shucks, I's not worth nothin' no more. I jus' sets and sets and thinks of de old days and my
mammy. All dat make me sad. I'll tell you one dem songs what 'spresses my feelin's 'zactly.

  "I's am climbin' Jacob's ladder, ladder,
  I's am climbin' Jacob's ladder, ladder,
  Soldier of de cross; O-h-h-h! Rise and shine,
  Give Gawd de glory, glory, glory,
  In de year of Jubilee.
  I wants to climb up Jacob's ladder, ladder,
  Jacob's ladder, till I gits in de new Jerusalem.

"Dat jus' how I feels."

420143

     LARNCE HOLT, 79, was born near Woodville, in Tyler County, Texas, a
     slave of William Holt. He now lives in Beaumont, Texas.

"I's jus' small fry when freedom come, 'cause I's born in 1858. Bill Holt was my massa's name,
dat why dey calls me Larnce Holt. My massa, he come from Alabama but my mammy and daddy born
in Texas. Mammy named Hannah and daddy Elbert. Mammy cooked for de white folks but daddy, he
de shoemaker. Dat consider' a fine job on de plantation, 'cause he make all de shoes de white
folks uses for everyday and all de cullud people shoes. Every time dey kill de beef dey save
de hide for leather and dey put it in de trough call de tan vat, with de oak bark and other
things, and leave 'em dere long time. Dat change de raw hide to leather. When de shoe done
us black dem with soot, 'cause us have to do dat or wear 'em red. I's de little tike what help
my daddy put on de soot.

"Massa have de big plantation and I 'member de big log house. It have de gallery on both sides
and dey's de long hall down de center. De dogs and sometimes a possum used to run through de
hall at night. De hall was big 'nough to dance in and I plays de fiddle.

"My mammy have four boys, call Eb and Ander and Tobe. My big brother Eb he tote so many buckets
of water to de hands in de field he wore all de hair offen de top he head.

"I be so glad when Christmas come, when I's li'l. Down in de quarter us hang up stocking and
us have plenty homemake ginger cake and candy make out of sugar and maybe a apple. One Christmas
I real small and my mammy buy me a suit of clothes in de store. I so proud of it I 'fraid to
sit down in it. 'Terials in dem day was strong and last a long time. One time I git de first
pair shoes from a store. I thought dey's gold. My daddy bought dem for me and dey have a brace
in de toe and was nat'ral black.

"When freedom come us family breaks up. Old missy can't bear see my mammy go, so us stay. Dey
give my daddy a place on credick and he start farm and dey even 'low him hosses and mule and
other things he need. My massa good to de niggers. I stays with my mammy till she die when
I ten year old and den my brother Eb he take me and raise me till I sixteen. Den I go off for
myself.

"Dem young year us have good time. I fiddle to de dance, play 'Git up in de Cool,' and 'Hopus
Creek and de Water.' Us sho' dress up for de dance. I have black calico pants with red ribbon
up de sides and a hickory shirt. De gals all wears ribbons 'round de waist and one like it
'round de head.

"Us have more hard time after freedom come dan in all de other time together. Us livin' in
trouble time. 'Bout 15 year ago I lost a leg, a big log fall 'cross it when I makin' ties.
I had plenty den but it go for de hospital.

420120

     BILL HOMER, 87, was born a slave on June 17, 1850, to Mr. Jack
     Homer, who owned a large plantation near Shreveport, La. In 1860
     Bill was given to Mr. Homer's daughter, who moved to Caldwell,
     Texas. Bill now lives at 3215 McKinley Ave., Fort Worth, Texas.

"I is 87 years old, 'cause I is born on June 17th, in 1850, and that's 'cording to de statement
my missy give me. I was born on Massa Jack Homer's plantation, close to Shreveport. Him owned
my mammy and my pappy and 'bout 100 other slaves. Him's plantation was a big un. I don't know
how many acres him have, but it was miles long. Dere was so many buildings and sheds on dat
place it was a small town. De massa's house was a big two-story building and dere was de spinnin'
house, de smokehouse, de blacksmith shop and a nursery for de cullud chillens and a lot of
sheds and sich. In de nigger quarters dere was 50 one-room cabins and dey was ten in a row
and dere was five rows.

"De cabins was built of logs and had dirt floors and a hole whar a window should be and a stone
fireplace for de cookin' and de heat. Dere was a cookhouse for de big house and all de cookin'
for de white folks was 'tended to by four cooks. We has lots of food, too--cornmeal and vegetables
and milk and 'lassas and meat. For mos' de meat dey kotched hawgs in de Miss'sippi River bottoms.
Once a week, we have white flour biscuit.

"Some work was hard and some easy, but massa don' 'lieve in overworkin' his slaves. Sat'day
afternoon and Sunday, dere was no work. Some whippin' done, but mos' reasonable. If de nigger
stubborn, deys whips 'nough for to change his mind. If de nigger runs on, dat calls de good
whippin's. If any of de cullud folks has de misery, dey lets him res' in bed and if de misery
bad de massa call de doctor.

"I larnt to be coachman and drive for massa's family. But in de year of 1860, Missy Mary gits
married to Bill Johnson and at dat weddin' massa Homer gives me and 49 other niggers to her
for de weddin' present. Massa Johnson's father gives him 50 niggers too. Dey has a gran' weddin'.
I helps take care of de hosses and dey jus' kep' a-comin'. I 'spect dere was more'n 100 peoples
dere and dey have lots of music and dancin' and eats and, I 'spects, drinks, 'cause we'uns
made peach brandy. You see, de massa had his own still.

"After de weddin' was over, dey gives de couple de infare. Dere's whar dis nigger comes in.
I and de other niggers was lined up, all with de clean clothes on and den de massa say, 'For
to give my lovin' daughter de start, I gives you dese 50 niggers. Massa Bill's father done
de same for his son, and dere we'uns was, 100 niggers with a new massa.

"Dey loads 15 or 20 wagons and starts for Texas. We travels from daylight to dark, with mos'
de niggers walkin'. Of course, it was hard, but we enjoys de trip. Dere was one nigger called
Monk and him knows a song and larned it to us, like this:

  "'Walk, walk, you nigger, walk!
  De road am dusty, de road am tough,
  Dust in de eye, dust in de tuft;
  Dust in de mouth, yous can't talk--
  Walk, you niggers, don't you balk.
  Walk 'til we reach dere, walk or bust--
  De road am long, we be dere by and by.'

Now, we'uns was a-follerin' behin' de wagons and we'uns sings it to de slow steps of de ox.
We'uns don't sing it many times 'til de missy come and sit in de back of de wagon, facin' we'uns
and she begin to beat de slow time and sing wid we'uns. Dat please Missy Mary to sing with
us and she laugh and laugh.

"After 'bout two weeks we comes to de place near Caldwell, in Texas, and dere was buildin's
and land cleared, so we's soon settled. Massa plants mostly cotton and corn and clears more
land. I larned to be a coachman, but on dat place I de ox driver or uses de hoe.

"Yous never drive de ox, did yous? De mule ain't stubborn side of de ox, de ox am stubborn
and den some more. One time I's haulin' fence rails and de oxen starts to turn gee when I wants
dem to go ahead. I calls for haw, but dey pays dis nigger no mind and keeps agwine gee. Den
dey starts to run and de overseer hollers and asks me, 'Whar you gwine?' I hollers back, 'I's
not gwine, I's bein' took.' Dem oxen takes me to de well for de water, 'cause if dey gits dry
and is near water, dey goes in spite of de devil.

"De treatment from new massa am good, 'cause of Missy Mary. She say to Massa Bill, 'if you
mus' 'buse de nigger, 'buse yous own.' We has music and parties. We plays de quill, make from
willow stick when de sap am up. Yous takes de stick and pounds de bark loose and slips it off,
den slit de wood in one end and down one side, puts holes in de bark and put it back on de
stick. De quill plays like de flute.

"I never goes out without de pass, so I never has trouble with de patter rollers. Nigger Monk,
him have de 'sperience with 'em. Dey kotched him twice and dey sho' makes him hump and holler.
After dat he gits pass or stays to home.

"De War make no diff'runce with us, 'cept de soldiers comes and takes de rations. But we'uns
never goes hungry, 'cause de massa puts some niggers hustlin' for wil' hawgs. After surrender,
missy reads de paper and tells dat we'uns is free, but dat we'uns kin stay 'til we is 'justed
to de change.

"De second year after de War, de massa sells de plantation and goes back to Louisiana and den
we'uns all lef'. I goes to Laredo for seven year and works on a stock ranch, den I goes to
farmin'. I gits married in 1879 to Mary Robinson and we'uns has 14 chilluns. Four of dem lives
here.

"I works hard all my life 'til 1935 and den I's too old. My wife and I lives on de pensions
we gits.

420234

     SCOTT HOOPER, 81, was born a slave of the Rev. Robert Turner, a
     Baptist minister who owned seven slave families. They lived on a
     small farm near Tenaha, then called Bucksnort, in Shelby County,
     Texas. Scott's father was owned by Jack Hooper, a neighboring
     farmer. Scott married Steve Hooper when she was thirteen and they
     had eight children, whose whereabouts are now unknown to her. She
     receives an $8.00 monthly pension.

"Well, I'll do de best I can to tell yous 'bout my life. I used to have de good 'collection,
but worryment 'bout ups and downs has 'fected my 'membance. I knows how old I is, 'cause mammy
have it in de Bible, and I's born in de year 1856, right in Shelby County, and near by Bucksnort,
what am call Tenaha now.

"Massa Turner am de bestest man he could be and taken good care of us, for sho'. He treat us
like humans. There am no whuppin's like some other places has. Gosh. What some dem old slaves
tell 'bout de whup and de short rations and lots of hard work am awful, so us am lucky.

"Massa don't have de big place, but jus' seven families what was five to ten in de family.
My mammy had nine chillen, but my pappy didn't live on us place, but on Jack Hooper's farm,
what am four mile off. He comes Wednesday and Saturday night to see us. His massa am good,
too, and lets him work a acre of land and all what he raises he can sell. Pappy plants cotton
and mostest de time he raises better'n half de bale to he acre. Dat-a-way, he have money and
he own pony and saddle, and he brung us chillen candy and toys and coffee and tea for mammy.
He done save 'bout $500 when surrender come, but it am all 'Federate money and it ain't worth
nothin'. He give it to us chillen to play with.

"Massa Turner am de Baptist preacherman and he have de church at Bucksnort. He run de store,
too, and folks laughs 'cause 'sides being a preacherman he sells whiskey in dat store. He makes
it medicine for us, with de cherry bark and de rust from iron nails in it. He call it, 'Bitters,'
and it a good name. It sho' taste bitter as gall. When us feels de misery it am bitters us
gits. Castor oil am candy 'side dem bitters!

"My grandmammy am de cook and all us eats in de shed. It am plenty food and meat and 'lasses
and brown sugar and milk and butter, and even some white flour. Course, peas and beans am allus
on dat table.

"When surrender come massa calls all us in de yard and makes de talk. He tells us we's free
and am awful sorry and show great worryment. He say he hate to part with us and us been good
to him, but it am de law. He say us can stay and work de land on shares, but mostest left.
Course, mammy go to Massa Hooper's place to pappy and he rents land from Massa Hooper, and
us live there seven years and might yet, but dem Klu Klux causes so much troublement. All us
niggers 'fraid to sleep in de house and goes to de woods at night. Pappy gits 'fraid something
happen to us and come to Fort Worth. Dat in 1872 and he farms over in de bottom.

"I's married to Steve Hooper den, 'cause us marry when I's thirteen years old. He goes in teamin'
in Fort Worth and hauls sand and gravel twenty-nine years. He doin' sich when he dies in 1900.
Den I does laundry work till I's too old. I tries to buy dis house and does fair till age catches
me and now I can't pay for it. All I has is $8.00 de month and I's glad to git dat, but it
won't even buy food. On sich 'mount, there am no way to stinch myself and pinch off de payments
on de house. Dat am de worryment.

420021

     ALICE HOUSTON, pioneer nurse and midwife on whom many San Angeloans
     have relied for years, was born October 22, 1859. She was a slave
     of Judge Jim Watkins on his small plantation in Hays County, near
     San Marcos, Texas and served as house girl to her mistress, Mrs.
     Lillie Watkins for many years after the Civil War. At Mrs. Watkins'
     death she came with her husband, Jim Houston, to San Angelo, Texas
     where she has continued her services as nurse to white families to
     the present time.

Alice relates her slave day experiences as follows:

"I was jes' a little chile when dat Civil War broke out and I's had de bes' white folks in
de world. My ole mistress she train me for her house girl and nurse maid. Dat's whar I's gits
so many good ideas fer nursin'.

"My mother's name was Mariah Watkins an' my father was named Henry Watkins. He would go out
in de woods on Sat'day nights and ketch 'possums and bring dem home and bake 'em wid taters.
Dat was de best eatin' we had. Course we had good food all de time but we jes' like dat 'possum
best.

"My marster, he only have four families and he had a big garden fer all of us. We had our huts
at de back of de farm. Dey was made out of logs and de cracks daubbed up wid mud. Dey was clean
and comfortable though, and we had good beds.

"When we was jes' little kids ole marster he ketch us a stealin' watermelons and he say, 'Git!
Git! Git! And when we runs and stoops over to crawl through de crack of de fence he sho' give
us a big spank. Den we runs off cryin' and lookin' back like.

"Ole marster, he had lots of hogs and cows and chickens and I can jes' taste dat clabber milk
now. Ole miss, she have a big dishpan full of clabber and she tells de girl to set dat down
out in de yard and she say, 'Give all dem chillun a spoon now and let dem eat dat.' When we
all git 'round dat pan we sho' would lick dat clabber up.

"We had straight slips made out of white lowell what was wove on dat ole spinnin' wheel. Den
dey make jeans for de men's breeches and dye it wid copperas and some of de cloth dey dye wid
sumac berries and hit was sho' purty too.

"Ole miss, she make soda out of a certain kind of weed and dey makes coffee out of dried sweet
taters.

"My marster he didn' have no over-seer. He say his slaves had to be treated right. He never
'lowed none of his slaves to be sold 'way from their folks. I's nev'r, nev'r seen any slaves
in chains but I's hear talk of dem chains.

"My white folks, dey tries to teach us to read and spell and write some and after ole marster
move into town he lets us go to a real school. That's how come I can read so many docto' books
you see.

"We goes to church wid our white folks at dem camp meetin's and oh Lawdy! Yes, mam, we all
sho' did shout. Sometimes we jined de church too.

"We washed our clothes on Sat'day and danced dat night.

"On Christmas and New Year we would have all de good things old marster and ole missus had
and when any of de white folks marry or die dey sho' carry on big. Weddin's and funerals, dem
was de biggest times.

"When we gits sick, ole marster he have de docto' right now. He sho' was good 'bout dat. Ole
miss she make us wear a piece of lead 'round our necks fer de malaria and to keeps our nose
from bleedin' and all of us wore some asafoetida 'round our necks to keep off contagion.

"When de war close ole marster calls up all de slaves and he say, 'You's all free people now,
jes' same as I is, and you can go or stay,' and we all wants to stay 'cause wasn't nothin'
we knowed how to do only what ole marster tells us. He say he let us work de land and give
us half of what we make, and we all stayed on several years until he died. We stayed with Miss
Watkins, and here I is an ole nigga, still adoin' good in dis world, a-tellin' de white folks
how to take care of de chilluns."

420271

     JOSEPHINE HOWARD was born in slavery on the Walton plantation near
     Tuscaloosa, Alabama. She does not know her age, but when Mr. Walton
     moved to Texas, before the Civil War, she was old enough to work in
     the fields. Josephine is blind and very feeble. She lives with a
     daughter at 1520 Arthur St., Houston, Texas.

"Lawd have mercy, I been here a thousand year, seems like. 'Course I ain't been here so long,
but it seems like it when I gits to thinkin' back. It was long time since I was born, long
'fore de war. Mammy's name was Leonora and she was cook for Marse Tim Walton what had de plantation
at Tuscaloosa. Dat am in Alabamy. Papa's name was Joe Tatum and he lived on de place 'jinin'
ourn. Course, papa and mamy wasn't married like folks now, 'cause dem times de white folks
jes' put slave men and women together like hosses or cattle.

"Dey allus done tell us it am wrong to lie and steal, but why did de white folks steal my mammy
and her mammy? Dey lives clost to some water, somewheres over in Africy, and de man come in
a little boat to de sho' and tell dem he got presents on de big boat. Most de men am out huntin'
and my mammy and her mammy gits took out to dat big boat and dey locks dem in a black hole
what mammy say so black you can't see nothin'. Dat de sinfulles' stealin' dey is.

"De captain keep dem locked in dat black hole till dat boat gits to Mobile and dey is put on
de block and sold. Mammy is 'bout twelve year old and dey am sold to Marse Tim, but grandma
dies in a month and dey puts her in de slave graveyard.

"Mammy am nuss gal till she git older and den cook, and den old Marse Tim puts her and papa
together and she has eight chillen. I reckon Marse Tim warn't no wor'ser dan other white folks.
De nigger driver sho' whip us, with de reason and without de reason. You never knowed. If dey
done took de notion dey jes' lays it on you and you can't do nothin'.

"One mornin' we is all herded up and mammy am cryin' and say dey gwine to Texas, but can't
take papa. He don't 'long to dem. Dat de lastes' time we ever seed papa. Us and de women am
put in wagons but de men slaves am chained together and has to walk.

"Marse Tim done git a big farm up by Marshall but only live a year dere and his boys run de
place. Dey jes' like dey papa, work us and work us. Lawd have mercy, I hear dat call in de
mornin' like it jes' jesterday, 'All right, everybody out, and you better git out iffen you
don't want to feel dat bullwhip 'cross you back.'

"My gal I lives with don't like me to talk 'bout dem times. She say it ain't no more and it
ain't good to think 'bout it. But when you has live in slave times you ain't gwine forgit dem,
no, suh! I's old and blind and no 'count, but I's alive, but in slave times I'd be dead long
time ago, 'cause white folks didn't have no use for old niggers and git shet of dem one way
or t'other.

"It ain't till de sojers comes we is free. Dey wants us to git in de pickin', so my folks and
some more stays. Dey didn't know no place to go to. Mammy done took sick and die and I hires
out to cook for Missy Howard, and marries her coachman, what am Woodson Howard. We farms and
comes to Houston nigh sixty year ago. Dey has mule cars den. Woodson gits a job drayin' and
'fore he dies we raises three boys and seven gals, but all 'cept two gals am dead now. Dey
takes care of me, and dat all I know 'bout myself.

420275

     LIZZIE HUGHES, blind Negress of Harrison County, Texas, was born on
     Christmas Day, 1848, a slave of Dr. Newton Fall, near Nacogdoches.
     Lizzie married when she was eighteen and has lived near Marshall
     since that time. She is cared for by a married daughter, who lives
     on Lizzie's farm.

"My name am Lizzie Fall Hughes. I was borned on Christmas at Chireno, 'tween old Nacogdoches
town and San Augustine. Dat eighty-nine year ago in slavery time. My young master give me my
age on a piece of paper when I married but the rats cut it up.

"I 'longed to Dr. Fall and old Miss Nancy, his wife. They come from Georgia. Papa was named
Ed Wilson Fall and mammy was June. Dr. Newton Fall had a big place at Chireno and a hundred
slaves. They lived in li'l houses round the edge of the field. We had everything we needed.
Dr. Newton run a store and was a big printer. He had a printin' house at Chireno and 'nother
in California.

"The land was red and they worked them big Missouri mules and sho' raised somethin'. Master
had fifty head of cows, too, and they was plenty wild game. When master was gone he had a overseer,
but tell him not to whip. He didn't 'lieve in rushin' his niggers. All the white folks at Chireno
was good to they niggers. On Saturday night master give all the men a jug of syrup and a sack
of flour and a ham or middlin' and the smokehouse was allus full of beef and pork. We had a
good time on that place and the niggers was happy. I 'member the men go out in the mornin',
singin':

  "'I went to the barn with a shinin', bright moon,
  I went to the wood a-huntin' a coon.
  The coon spied me from a sugar maple tree,
  Down went my gun and up the tree went me.
  Nigger and coon come tumblin' down,
  Give the hide to master to take off to town,
  That coon was full of good old fat,
  And master brung me a new beaver hat.'

  "Part of 'nother song go like this:

  "'Master say, you breath smell of brandy,
  Nigger say, no, I's lick 'lasses candy.'

"When old master come to the lot and hear the men singin' like that, he say, 'Them boys is
lively this mornin', I's gwine git a big day's plowin' done. They did, too, 'cause them big
Missouri mules sho' tore up that red land. Sometime they sing:

  "'This ain't Christmas mornin', just a long summer day,
  Hurry up, yellow boy and don't run 'way,
  Grass in the cotton and weeds in the corn,
  Get in the field, 'cause it soon be morn.'

"At night when the hands come in they didn't do nothin' but eat and cut up round the quarters.
They'd have a big ball in a big barn there on the place and sixty and seventy on the floor
at once, singin':

  "'Juba this and Juba that,
  Juba killed a yaller cat.
  Juba this and Juba that,
  Hold you partner where you at.'

"The whites preached to the niggers and the niggers preached to theyselves. Gen'man sho' could
preach good them times; everybody cried, they preached so good. I's a mourner when I git free.

"I's big 'nough to work round the house when war starts, but not big 'nough to be studyin'
'bout marryin'. I's sho' sorry when we's sot free. Old master didn't tell his niggers they
free. He didn't want them to go. On a day he's gone, two white men come and showed us a piece
of paper and say we's free now. One them men was a big mill man and told mama he'll give her
$12.00 a month and feed her seven li'l niggers if she go cook for his millhands. Papa done
die in slavery, so mama goes with the man. I run off and hid under the house. I wouldn't leave
till I seed master. When he come home he say, 'Lizzie, why didn't you go?' I say, 'I don't
want to leave my preserves and light bread.' He let me stay.

"Then I gits me a li'l man. He works for master in the store and I works round the house. Master
give me two dresses and a pair of shoes when I married. We lived with him a year or two and
then come to Marshall. My husband worked on public work and I kept house for white folks and
we saved our money and buyed this li'l farm. My man's dead fourteen years now and my gal and
her husband keeps the farm goin'.

"Me and my man didn't have nothin' when we left Nacogdoches, but we works hard and saves our
money and buyed this farm. It 'pear like these young niggers don't try to 'cumulate nothin'.

420226

     MOSE HURSEY believes he is about eighty-two years old. He was born
     in slavery on a plantation in Louisiana, and was brought to Texas
     by his parents after they were freed. Mose has been a preacher most
     of his life, and now believes he is appointed by God to be "Head
     Prophet of the World." He lives with his daughter at 1120 Tenth
     St., Dallas, Texas.

"I was born somewhere in Louisiana, but can't rec'lect the place exact, 'cause I was such a
little chap when we left there. But I heared my mother and father say they belonged to Marse
Morris, a fine gentleman, with everything fine. He sold them to Marse Jim Boling, of Red River
County, in Texas. So they changes their name from Morris to Boling, Liza Boling and Charlie
Boling, they was. Marse Boling didn't buy my brother and sister, so that made me the olderest
child and the onliest one.

"The Bolings had a 'normous big house and a 'normous big piece of land. The house was the finest
I ever seen, white and two-story. He had about sixty slaves, and he thought a powerful lot
of my folks, 'cause they was good workers. My mother, special, was a powerful 'ligious woman.

"We lived right well, considerin'. We had a little log house like the rest of the niggers and
I played round the place. Eatin' time come, my mother brung a pot of peas or beans and cornbread
or side meat. I had 'nother brother and sister comin' 'long then, and we had tin plates and
cups and knives and spoons, and allus sot to our food.

"We had 'nough of clothes, sich as they was. I wore shirttails out of duckings till I was a
big boy. All the little niggers wore shirttails. My mother had fair to middlin' cotton dresses.

"All week the niggers worked plantin' and hoein' and carin' for the livestock. They raised
cotton and corn and veg'tables, and mules and horses and hawgs and sheep. On Sundays they had
meetin', sometimes at our house, sometimes at 'nother house. Right fine meetin's, too. They'd
preach and pray and sing--shout, too. I heared them git up with a powerful force of the spirit,
clappin' they hands and walkin' round the place. They'd shout, 'I got the glory. I got that
old time 'ligion in my heart.' I seen some powerful 'figurations of the spirit in them days.
Uncle Billy preached to us and he was right good at preachin' and nat'rally a good man, anyways.
We'd sing:

  "'Sisters, won't you help me bear my cross,
  Help me bear my cross,
  I been done wear my cross.
  I been done with all things here,
  'Cause I reach over Zion's Hill.
  Sisters, won't you please help bear my cross,
  Up over Zion's hill?'

"I seed a smart number of wagons and mules a-passin' along and some camp along the woods by
our place. I heared they was a war and folks was goin' with 'visions and livestock. I wasn't
much bigger'n a minute and I was scared clean to my wits.

"Then they's a time when paw says we'll be a-searchin' a place to stay and work on a pay way.
They was a consider'ble many niggers left the Bolings. The day we went away, which was 'cause
'twas the breakin' up of slavery, we went in the wagon, out the carriage gate in front the
Boling's place. As we was leavin', Mr. Boling called me and give me a cup sweet coffee. He
thought consid'ble plenty of me.

"We went to a place called Mantua, or somethin' like that. My paw says he'll make a man of
me, and he puts me to breakin' ground and choppin' wood. Them was bad times. Money was scarce
and our feedin' was pore.

"My paw died and maw and me and the children, Nancy and Margina and Jessie and George, moves
to a little place right outside Sherman. Maw took in washin' and ironin'. I went one week to
school and the teacher said I learned fastest of any boy she ever see. She was a nice, white
lady. Maw took me out of school 'cause she needed me at home to tend the other children, so's
she could work. I had a powerful yearnin' to read and write, and I studied out'n my books by
myself and my friends helped me with the cipherin'.

"I did whatever work I could find to do, but my maw said I was a different mood to the other
children. I was allus of a 'ligious and serious turn of mind. I was baptised when I was fifteen
and then when I was about twenty-five I heared a clear call to preach the Gospel-word. I went
to preachin' the word of Gawd. I got married and raised a family of children, and I farmed
and preached.

"I was just a preacher till about thirty years ago, and then Gawd started makin' a prophet
out of me. Today I am Mose Hursey, Head Prophet to the World. They is lesser prophets, but
I is the main one. I became a great prophet by fastin' and prayin'. I fast Mondays and Wednesdays
and Fridays. I know Gawd is feedin' the people through me. I see him in visions and he speaks
to me. In 1936 I saw him at Commerce and Jefferson Streets (Dallas) and he had a great banner,
sayin', 'All needs a pension.' In August this year I had a great vision of war in the eastern
corner of the world. I seen miles of men marchin' and big guns and trenches filled with dead
men. Gawd tells me to tell the people to be prepared, 'cause the tides of war is rollin' this
way, and all the thousands of millions of dollars they spend agin it ain't goin' to stop it.
I live to tell people the word Gawd speaks through me.

420081

     CHARLEY HURT, 85, was born a slave of John Hurt, who owned a large
     plantation and over a hundred slaves, in Oglethorpe County,
     Georgia. Charley stayed with his master for five years after the
     Civil War. In 1899 Charley moved to Fort Worth, and now lives at
     308 S. Harding St.

"Yes, suh, I'm borned in slavery and not 'shamed of it, 'cause I can't help how I'm borned.
Dere am folks what wont say dey borned in slavery.

"Us plantation am near Maxie, over in Oglethorpe County, in Georgia, and massa am John Hurt
and he have near a hunerd slaves. Us live in de li'l cabin make from logs chink with mud and
straw and twigs am mix with dat mud to make it hold. De big chimley am outside de cabin mostly,
and am logs and mud, too. De cabin am 'bout ten by twenty feet and jus' one room.

"Would I like some dem rations we used to git, now? 'Deed I would. Dem was good, dat meat and
cornmeal and 'lasses and plenty milk and sometimes butter. De meat am mostest pork, with some
beef, 'cause massa raise plenty hawgs and tendin' meat curin' am my first work. I puts dat
meat in de brine and den smokes de hams and shoulders. When hawg-killin' time come I'm busy
watchin' de smokehouse, what am big, and hams and sich hung on racks 'bout six feet high from
de fireplace. Den it my duty to keep dat fire smoulderin' and jus' smokin'. De more smoke,
de better. Den I packs dat meat in hawgs heads and puts salt over each layer. Dat am some meat!

"I mus' tell you 'bout dat whiskey and brandy. Massa have he own still and allus have three
barrels or more whiskey and brandy on hand. Den on Christmas Day, him puts a tub of whiskey
or brandy in de yard and hangs tin cups 'round de tub. Us helps ourselves. At first us start
jokin' with each other, den starts to sing and everybody am happy. Massa watches us and if
one us gittin' too much, massa sends him to he cabin and he sleep it off. Anyway, dat one day
on massa's place all am happy and forgits dey am slaves.

"De last Christmas 'fore surrender I gits too much and am sick. Gosh a-mighty! Dat de sickest
I ever be and dat de last time I gits drunk. Yes, suh, dat spoil dis nigger's taste for whiskey.

"Now, 'bout whuppin's, dere am only one whuppin' what am give. Jerry gits dat, 'cause he wont
do what massa say. He tie Jerry on de log and have de rawhide whip.

"Dere am system on dat plantation. Everybody do he own work, sich as field hands, stock hands,
de blacksmith and de shoemaker and de weavers and clothes makers. I'm all 'round worker and
goes after de mail, jus' runnin' 'round de place.

"When de war start, all massa's sons jines de army. He have three. John am de captain and James
carry de flag and I guesses August am jus' de plain sojer. Dey all comes home 'fore de war
am finish. August git run over by de wheel of de cannon truck and it cripple he legs so he
can't walk good. James gits sick with some kind fever misery and he am sent home. Den John
am shot in de shoulder and it stay sore and won't heal. One day Jerry say to massa he want
to look at dat sore. Him see somethin' stickin' out and he pull it. It a piece of young massa's
coat and de bullet have carry it into de flesh and it am dere a whole year. De sore gits all
right after dat out.

"'Fore de boys goes to fightin' dey trains near de place where am de big field for to train
hunerds of sojer boys. I likes dat, 'cause de drums goes, 'ter-ump, ter-ump, ter-ump, tump,
tump,' and de fifes goes, 'te, te, ta, te, tat' and plays Dixie. One day Young massa trainin'
dem sojers and he am walkin' backwards and facin' dem sojers, and jus' as him say, 'Halt,'
down he go, flat on he back. Right away quick, him say, ''Bout face,' 'cause him don't want
dem sojers to laugh in he face, so he turn dem 'round.

"When surrender come, all dem what not kilt comes home and dey have a big 'ception in Maxie.
Dey have lots of long tables and de food am put on 'fore de train come in. Dere was two coaches
full of de boys and dey doesn't wait for dat train to stop. No, suh, dey crawls out de windows.
Well, dere am huggin' and kissin' of de homefolks, and dey all laughin' and cryin' at de same
time, 'cause of de joy dey's feelin'. Den dey all sets down to de feast. Massa make de welcome
talk. I done hide in de wagon full of hams and cakes and pies and dere a canvas over dat stuff,
and dat how I gits to dat welcome home.

"I crawls out 'fore dey unloads de wagon and 'fore long massa see me and him say, 'Gosh for
hemlock! Boy, how comes you here?' I lets my face slip a li'l, 'bout half a laugh. I says,
'I rides under dat canvas.' Dat start him laughin' and he tells de people dat I'm a pat'otic
nigger. After dey all eats us niggers gits to eat. For once, I gits plenty pie and cake.

"Us never have much joyments in slave time. Only when de corn ready for huskin' all de neighbors
comes dere and a whole big crowd am a-huskin' and singin'. I can't 'member dem songs, 'cause
I'm not much for singin'. One go like dis:

  "'Pull de husk, break de ear;
  Whoa, I's got de red ear here.'

"When you finds de red ear, dat 'titles you to de prize, like kissin' de gal or de drink of
brandy or somethin'. Dey not 'nough red ears to suit us.

"I'm thirteen year when surrender come. Massa don't call us to him like other massas done.
Him jus' go 'mongst de folks and say, 'Well, folks, yous am free now and no longer my prop'ty,
and yous 'titled to pay for work. I 'member old Jerry sings, 'Free, free as de jaybird, free
to flew like de jaybird. Whew!'

"Some de cullud folks stays and some goes. Mostest dem stays and works de land on shares. I
stays till I'm eighteen year and den I works for a farmer den for a blacksmith den some carpenter
work and some railroadin'. De fact am, I works at anything I could find to does. I does dat
most my life.

"It good for me to stay with Massa Hurt after freedom, 'cause den day plenty trouble in every
place. Dere am fightin' 'twixt white and cullud folks over votin' and sich. Dey try 'lect my
brudder to Congress one time, but he not 'lect, 'cause de white man what am runnin' 'gainst
him gits a cullud preacher to run 'gainst dem both. Dat split de cullud votes and de white
man am 'lect. I votes like de white man say, couple times, but after dat I stops votin'. It
ain't right for me to vote 'less I knows how and why. I larns to read and den starts votin' 'gain.

"After de war de Ku Klux am org'nize and dey makes de niggers plenty trouble. Sometimes de
niggers has it comin' to 'em and lots of times dey am 'posed on. Dere a old, cullud man name
George and he don't trouble nobody, but one night de white caps--dat what dey called--comes
to George's place. Now, George know of some folks what am whupped for no-cause, so he prepare
for dem white caps. When dey gits to he house George am in de loft. He tell dem he done nothin'
wrong and for dem to go 'way, or he kill dem. Dey say he gwine have a free sample of what he
git if he do wrong and one dem white caps starts up de ladder to git George and George shoot
him dead. 'Nother white cap starts shootin' through de ceilin'. He can't see George but through
de cracks George can see and he shoots de second feller. So dey leaves and say dey come back.
George runs to he old massa and he takes George to de law men. Never nothin' am done 'bout
him killin' de white caps, 'cause dem white caps goes 'round 'busing niggers.

"I comes to Texas 'bout 40 year since and gits by purty good till de depression comes, den
it hard for me. My age am 'gainst me, too, and many de time I's wish for some dat old ham and
bacon on de old plantation.

"First I marries Ann Arrant, in 1898 dat was, and us have three chillen but dey all dead. Us
git sep'rate in 1917 and I marries Mary Durham in 1921, and us still livin' together. Us have
no chillen. Mammy have ten chillen but I'm de only one what am livin' now, 'cause I'm de youngest.

420088

     WASH INGRAM, A 93 year old Negro, was born a slave of Capt. Jim
     Wall, of Richmond, Va. His father, Charley Wall Ingram, ran away
     and secured work in a gold mine. Later, his mother died and Capt.
     Wall sold Wash and his two brothers to Jim Ingram, of Carthage,
     Texas. When Wash's father learned this, he overtook his sons before
     they reached Texas and put himself back in bondage, so he could be
     with his children. Wash served as water carrier for the Confederate
     soldiers at the battle of Mansfield, La. He now lives with friends
     on the Elysian Fields Road, seven miles southeast of Marshall,
     Texas.

"I don' know just how ole I is. I was 'bout 18 when de War was over. I was bo'n on Captain
Wall's place in Richmond, Virgini'. Pappy's name was Charlie and mammy's name was Ca'line.
I had six sisters and two brothers and all de sisters is dead. I haven't heard from my brothers
since Master turn us loose, a year after de war.

"Pappy say dat he and mammy was sold and traded lots of times in Virgini'. We always went by
de name of whoever we belonged to. I first worked as a roustabout boy dere on Capt. Wall's
place in Virgini'. He was sho' a big man, weighed more'n 200 pounds. He owned lots of niggers
and worked lots of land. The white folks was good to us, but Pappy was a fightin' man and he
run off and got a job in a gold mine in Virgini'.

"After pappy run away, mammy died and den one day de overseer herded up a big bunch of us niggers
and driv us to Barnum's Tradin' Ya'd down in Mississippi. Dat's a place where dey sold and
traded Niggers jus' lak stock. I cried when Capt. Wall sold me, 'cause dat was one man dat
sho' was good to his niggers. But he had too many slaves.

"Cotton was a good price den and dem slave buyers had plenty of money. We was sold to Jim Ingram,
of Carthage. He bought a big gang of slaves and refugeed part of 'em to Louisiana and part
to Texas. We come to Texas in ox wagons. While we was on the way, camped at Keachie, Louisiana,
a man come ridin' into camp and someone say to me, 'Wash, dar's your pappy.' I didn' believe
it 'cause pappy was workin' in a gold mine in Virgini'. Some of de men told pappy his chillen
is in camp and he come and fin' me and my brothers. Den he jine Master Ingram's slaves so he
can be with his chillen.

"Master Ingram had a big plantation down near Carthage and lots of niggers. He also buyed land,
cleared it and sol' it. I plowed with oxen. We had a overseer and sev'ral taskmasters. Dey
whip de niggers for not workin' right, or for runnin' 'way or pilferin' roun' master's house.
We woke up at four o'clock and worked from sunup to sundown. Dey give us an hour for dinner.
Dem dat work roun' de house et at tables with plates. Dem dat work in de field was drove in
from work and fed jus' like hosses at a big, long wooden trough. Dey had to eat with a wooden
spoon. De trough and de food was clean and always plenty of it, and we stood up to eat. We
went to bed soon after supper durin' de week for dat's 'bout all we feel like doin' after workin'
twelve hours. We slep' in wooden beds what had corded rope mattresses.

"We had to learn de best way we could, 'cause dere was no schools. We had church out in de
woods. I didn' see no money till after de surrender. Guess we didn' need any, 'cause dey give
us food and clothes and tobacco. We didn' have to buy nothin'. I had broadcloth clothes, a
blue jean overcoat and good shoes and boots.

"De niggers had heap better times dan now. Now we work all time and can't git nothin'. Sat'day
night we would have parties and dance and play ring plays. We had de parties dere in a big
double log house. Dey would give us whiskey and wine and cherry brandy, but dere wasn' no shootin'
or gamblin'. Dey didn' 'low it. De men and women didn' do like dey do now. If dey had such
carryin's on as dey do now, de white folks would have whipped 'em good.

"I 'member dat war and I sees dem cannons and hears 'em. I toted water for de soldiers what
fought at de Battle of Mansfield. Master Ingram had 350 slaves when de war was over but he
didn' turn us loose till a year after surrender. He telled us dat de gov'ment goin' to give
us 40 acres of land and a pair of mules, but we didn' git nothin'. After Master Ingram turn
us loose, pappy bought a place at De Berry, Texas, and I live with him till after I was grown.
Den I marry and move to Louisiana. I come back to Texas two years ago and lived with my friends
here ever since. My wife died 18 years ago and I had a hard time 'cause I don' have no folks,
but I's managed to git someone to let me work for somethin' to eat, a few clothes and a place
to sleep.

420047

     CARTER J. JACKSON, 85, was born in Montgomery, Alabama, a slave of
     Parson Dick Rogers. In 1863 the Rogers family brought Carter to
     Texas and he worked for them as a slave until four years after
     emancipation. Carter was with his master's son, Dick, when he was
     killed at Pittsburg, Pa. Carter married and moved to Tatum in 1871.

"If you's wants to know 'bout slavery time, it was Hell. I's born in Montgomery, over yonder
in Alabama. My pappy named Charles and come from Florida and mammy named Charlotte and her
from Tennessee. They was sold to Parson Rogers and brung to Alabama by him. I had seven brothers
call Frank and Benjamin and Richardson and Anderson and Miles, Emanuel and Gill, and three
sisters call Milanda, Evaline and Sallie, but I don't know if any of 'em are livin' now.

"Parson Rogers come to Texas in '63 and brung 'bout 42 slaves and my first work was to tote
water in the field. Parson lived in a good, big frame house, and the niggers lived in log houses
what had dirt floors and chimneys, and our bunks had rope slats and grass mattress. I sho'
wish I could have cotch myself sleepin' on a feather bed them days. I wouldn't woke up till
Kingdom Come.

"We et vegetables and meat and ash cake. You could knock you mammy in the head, eatin' that
ash cake bread. I ain't been fit since. We had hominy cooked in the fireplace in big pots that
ain't bad to talk 'bout. Deer was thick them days and we sot up sharp stobs inside the pea
field and them young bucks jumps over the fence and stabs themselves. That the only way to
cotch them, 'cause they so wild you couldn't git a fair shot with a rifle.

"Massa Rogers had a 300 acre plantation and 200 in cultivation and he had a overseer and Steve
O'Neal was the nigger driver. The horn to git up blowed 'bout four o'clock and if we didn't
fall out right now, the overseer was in after us. He tied us up every which way and whip us,
and at night he walk the quarters to keep us from runnin' 'round. On Sunday mornin' the overseer
come 'round to each nigger cabin with a big sack of shorts and give us 'nough to make bread
for one day.

"I used to steal some chickens, 'cause we didn't have 'nough to eat, and I don' think I done
wrong, 'cause the place was full of 'em. We sho' earned what we et. I'd go up to the big house
to make fires and lots of times I seed the mantel board lined with greenbacks, 'tween mantel
and wall and I's snitched many a $50.00 bill, but it 'federate money.

"Me and four of her chillen standin' by when mammy's sold for $500.00. Cryin' didn't stop 'em
from sellin' our mammy 'way from us.

"I 'member the war was tough and I went 'long with young massa Dick when he went to the war,
to wait on him. I's standin' clost by when he was kilt under a big tree in Pittsburg, and 'fore
he die he ask Wes Tatum, one the neighbor boys from home, to take care of me and return me
to Massa George.

"I worked on for Massa Rogers four year after that, jus' like in slavery time, and one day
he call us and say we can go or stay. So I goes with my pappy and lives with him till 1871.
Then I marries and works on the railroad when it's builded from Longview to Big Sandy, 'bout
1872. I works there sev'ral years and I raises seven chillen. After I quits the railroad I
works wherever I can, on farms or in town.

420092

     JAMES JACKSON, 87, was born a slave to the Alexander family, in
     Caddo Parish, La. When he was about two, his master moved to Travis
     County, Texas. A short time later he and his two brothers were
     stolen and sold to Dr. Duvall, in Bastrop Co., Texas. He worked
     around Austin till he married, when he moved to Taylor and then to
     Kaufman. In 1929 he went to Fort Worth where he has lived ever
     since.

"I was bo'n at Caddo Parish, dats in Louisiana, on de Doc Alexander plantation. My mother says
I was bo'n on de 18th day of December, in de year of 1850. I guess dat's right, 'cause I's
87 years ole dis comin' December.

"Jus' 'bout dat time dey started shippin' de darkies to Texas. My marster moved to Travis County,
Texas, and tuk all his slaves wid him. I was too young to 'member, but my mother, she told
me 'bout it.

"It wasn' long after we was on Marster Alexander's new place in Travis County, till one night
a man rode up on a hoss and stole me and my two brothers and rode away wid us. He tuk us to
Bastrop County and sold us to Doc Duvall. Marster Duvall sold my brother right after he bought
us, but me and John, we stayed wid him till de slaves was freed.

"On Marster Duvall's plantation de slaves all lived in log cabins back of de big house. Dey
was one room, two rooms and three room cabins, dependin' on de size of de family. Most had
dirt floors, but some of 'em had log slabs. We had dese ole wooden beds wid a rope stretch
'cross de bottom and a mattress of straw or cotton dat de niggers got in de fiel'. We had lots
to eat, like biscuit, cornbread, meat and sich stuff. Most times dey made coffee outta parch
cornmeal. We had gardens and raised most of de stuff to eat.

"I herds sheep and is houseboy most of de time. When I was ole enough, I picks cotton. I was
jus' learnin' when de slaves was freed. Marster Duvall had over 500 acres in cotton and he
kep' us in de fiel' all de time, 'cept Saturday afternoon and Sunday.

"Dey had meetin' and dances Saturday nights. I was too young to 'member jus' what de songs
was, but dey had a fiddle and played all night long. On ever' Sunday de niggers went to Church
in de evenin'. Dey had a white preacher in de mornin' and a cullud preacher in de evenin'.

"Marster Duvall would whip de niggers who was disobedience and he jus' call dem up and ask
dem what was de trouble, den he would whip dem wid a cowhide or a rope whip. We could go anywhere
iffen we had a pass, but if we didn' de paddlerollers would ketch us. They was kinda like policemen
we got today.

"In slavery, dey traded and sold niggers like dey do hosses and mules. Dey carry dem to de
court house and put dem on de block and auction 'em off. Some sold for roun' $3,000. It was
hard to sell one wid scars on him, 'cause nobody wanted him. I seen 'em come by in droves,
all chained together.

"When de slaves was free dey was sho' happy. Dey all got together and had a kin' of cel'bration.
Marster told dem if dey wanted to stay and help make de crop, he'd give 'em 50 cents a day
and a place to stay. Some tuk him up on dat and stayed, but a lot of dem left dere. Me and
my brother, we started walkin' to Austin. In Austin we finds our mother, she was working for
Judge Paschal. She hires us out to one place and den another.

"Since freedom I done most everything anybody could do. I been porter and waiter in hotels
and rest'rants. I been factory hand, and worked for carpenters and in de roun' house. I picked
cotton and worked on de farm.

"I been married 61 years. I gits married at home, like civilize folks do. I raised a big family,
12 chillen, but only five is alive today. I moved here in 1929 and looks like I's here till I die.

420188

     MAGGIE JACKSON was born a slave of the Sam Oliver family, in Cass
     Co., Texas, near Douglasville. She is about 80 years old and her
     memory is not very good, so her story gives few details. She lives
     with her daughter near Douglasville, on highway #8.

"I am about 80 years old and was a chile during slavery times. My papa's name was Tom Spencer
Hall and my mama's name was Margaret Hall. My brothers and sisters was Maria and Barbara and
Alice and Octavia and Andrew and Thomas and Hillary and Eugenia and Silas and Thomas. We was
a big fam'ly.

