Obviously, a land socially atomized and politically split into many principalities was destined
to fall before the first strong invader. This invader was Islam. The Mohammedans attacked India
soon after their conquest of Persia, but these early attacks were mere border raids without
lasting significance. The first real Mohammedan invasion was that of Mahmud of Ghazni, an Afghan
prince, in A.D. 1001. Following the road taken by the Aryans ages before, Mahmud conquered
north-western India, the region known as the Punjab. Islam had thus obtained a firm foothold
in India, and subsequent Moslem leaders spread gradually eastward until most of northern India
was under Moslem rule. The invaders had two notable advantages: they were fanatically united
against the despised "Idolaters," and they drew many converts from the native population. The
very antithesis of Brahminism, Islam, with its doctrine that all Believers are brothers, could
not fail to attract multitudes of low-castes and out-castes, who by conversion might rise to
the status of the conquerors. This is the main reason why the Mohammedans in India to-day number
more than 70,000,000--over one-fifth of the total population. These Indian Moslems are descended,
not merely from Afghan, Turkish, Arab, and Persian invaders, but even more from the millions
of Hindu converts who embraced Islam.

For many generations the Moslem hold on India was confined to the north. Then, early in the
sixteenth century, the great Turko-Mongol leader Baber entered India and founded the "Mogul"
Empire. Baber and his successors overran even the south, and united India politically as it
had never been united before. But even this conquest was superficial. The Brahmins, threatened
with destruction, preached a Hindu revival; the Mogul dynasty petered out; and at the beginning
of the eighteenth century the Mogul Empire collapsed, leaving India a welter of warring principalities,
Mohammedan and Hindu, fighting each other for religion, for politics, or for sheer lust of plunder.

Out of this anarchy the British rose to power. The British were at first merely one of several
other European elements--Portuguese, Dutch, and French--who established small settlements along
the Indian coasts. The Europeans never dreamed of conquering India while the Mogul power endured.
In fact, the British connection with India began as a purely trading venture--the East India
Company. But when India collapsed into anarchy the Europeans were first obliged to acquire
local authority to protect their "factories," and later were lured into more ambitious schemes
by the impotence of petty rulers. Gradually the British ousted their European rivals and established
a solid political foothold in India. The one stable element in a seething chaos, the British
inevitably extended their authority. At first they did so reluctantly. The East India Company
long remained primarily a trading venture, aiming at dividends rather than dominion. However,
it later evolved into a real government with an ambitious policy of annexation. This in turn
awakened the fears of many Indians and brought on the "Mutiny" of 1857. The mutiny was quelled,
the East India Company abolished, and India came directly under the British Crown, Queen Victoria
being later proclaimed Empress of India. These events in turn resulted not only in a strengthening
of British political authority but also in an increased penetration of Western influences of
every description. Roads, railways, and canals opened up and unified India as never before;
the piercing of the Isthmus of Suez facilitated communication with Europe; while education
on European lines spread Western ideas.

Over this rapidly changing India stood the British "Raj"--a system of government unique in
the world's history. It was the government of a few hundred highly skilled administrative experts
backed by a small professional army, ruling a vast agglomeration of subject peoples. It was
frankly an absolute paternalism, governing as it saw fit, with no more responsibility to the
governed than the native despots whom it had displaced. But it governed well. In efficiency,
honesty, and sense of duty, the government of India is probably the best example of benevolent
absolutism that the world has ever seen. It gave India profound peace. It played no favourites,
holding the scales even between rival races, creeds, and castes. Lastly, it made India a real
political entity--something which India had never been before. For the first time in its history,
India was firmly united under one rule--the rule of the Pax Britannica.

Yet the very virtues of British rule sowed the seeds of future trouble. Generations grew up,
peacefully united in unprecedented acquaintanceship, forgetful of past ills, seeing only European
shortcomings, and, above all, familiar with Western ideas of self-government, liberty, and
nationality. In India, as elsewhere in the East, there was bound to arise a growing movement
of discontent against Western rule--a discontent varying from moderate demands for increasing
autonomy to radical demands for immediate independence.

Down to the last quarter of the nineteenth century, organized political agitation against the
British "Raj" was virtually unknown. Here and there isolated individuals uttered half-audible
protests, but these voices found no popular echo. The Indian masses, pre-occupied with the
ever-present problem of getting a living, accepted passively a government no more absolute,
and infinitely more efficient, than its predecessors. Of anything like self-conscious Indian
"Nationalism" there was virtually no trace.

The first symptom of organized discontent was the formation of the "Indian National Congress"
in the year 1885. The very name showed that the British Raj, covering all India, was itself
evoking among India's diverse elements a certain common point of view and aspiration. However,
the early congresses were very far from representing Indian public opinion, in the general
sense of the term. On the contrary, these congresses represented merely a small class of professional
men, journalists, and politicians, all of them trained in Western ideas. The European methods
of education which the British had introduced had turned out an Indian intelligentsia, conversant
with the English language and saturated with Westernism.

This new intelligentsia, convinced as it was of the value of Western ideals and achievements,
could not fail to be dissatisfied with many aspects of Indian life. In fact, its first efforts
were directed, not so much to politics, as to social and economic reforms like the suppression
of child-marriage, the remarriage of widows, and wider education. But, as time passed, matters
of political reform came steadily to the fore. Saturated with English history and political
philosophy as they were, the Indian intellectuals felt more and more keenly their total lack
of self-government, and aspired to endow India with those blessings of liberty so highly prized
by their English rulers. Soon a vigorous native press developed, preaching the new gospel,
welding the intellectuals into a self-conscious unity, and moulding a genuine public opinion.
By the close of the nineteenth century the Indian intelligentsia was frankly agitating for
sweeping political innovations like representative councils, increasing control over taxation
and the executive, and the opening of the public services to Indians all the way up the scale.

Down to the closing years of the nineteenth century Indian discontent was, as already said,
confined to a small class of more or less Europeanized intellectuals who, despite their assumption
of the title, could hardly be termed "Nationalists" in the ordinary sense of the word. With
a few exceptions, their goal was neither independence nor the elimination of effective British
oversight, but rather the reforming of Indian life along Western lines, including a growing
degree of self-government under British paramount authority.

But by the close of the nineteenth century there came a change in the situation. India, like
the rest of the Orient, was stirring to a new spirit of political and racial self-consciousness.
True nationalist symptoms began to appear. Indian scholars delved into their musty chronicles
and sacred texts, and proclaimed the glories of India's historic past. Reformed Hindu sects
like the Arya Somaj lent religious sanctions. The little band of Europeanized intellectuals
was joined by other elements, thinking, not in terms of piecemeal reforms on Western models,
but of a new India, rejuvenated from its own vital forces, and free to work out its own destiny
in its own way. From the nationalist ranks now arose the challenging slogan: "Bandemataram!"
("Hail, Motherland!")[194]

The outstanding feature about this early Indian nationalism was that it was a distinctively
Hindu movement. The Mohammedans regarded it with suspicion or hostility. And for this they
had good reasons. The ideal of the new nationalists was Aryan India, the India of the "Golden
Age." "Back to the Vedas!" was a nationalist watchword, and this implied a veneration for the
past, including a revival of aggressive Brahminism. An extraordinary change came over the intelligentsia.
Men who, a few years before, had proclaimed the superiority of Western ideas and had openly
flouted "superstitions" like idol-worship, now denounced everything Western and reverently
sacrificed to the Hindu gods. The "sacred soil" of India must be purged of the foreigner.[195]
But the "foreigner," as these nationalists conceived him, was not merely the Englishman; he
was the Mohammedan as well. This was stirring up the past with a vengeance. For centuries the
great Hindu-Mohammedan division had run like a chasm athwart India. It had never been closed,
but it had been somewhat veiled by the neutral overlordship of the British Raj. Now the veil
was torn aside, and the Mohammedans saw themselves menaced by a recrudescence of militant Hinduism
like that which had shattered the Mogul Empire after the death of the Emperor Aurangzeb two
hundred years before. The Mohammedans were not merely alarmed; they were infuriated as well.
Remembering the glories of the Mogul Empire just as the Hindus did the glories of Aryan India,
they considered themselves the rightful lords of the land, and had no mind to fall under the
sway of despised "Idolaters." The Mohammedans had no love for the British, but they hated the
Hindus, and they saw in the British Raj a bulwark against the potential menace of hereditary
enemies who outnumbered them nearly five to one. Thus the Mohammedans denounced Hindu nationalism
and proclaimed their loyalty to the Raj. To be sure, the Indian Moslems were also affected
by the general spirit of unrest which was sweeping over the East. They too felt a quickened
sense of self-consciousness. But, being a minority in India, their feelings took the form,
not of territorial "patriotism," but of those more diffused sentiments, Pan-Islamism and Pan-Islamic
nationalism, which we have already discussed.[196]

Early Indian nationalism was not merely Hindu in character; it was distinctly "Brahminical"
as well. More and more the Brahmins became the driving-power of the movement, seeking to perpetuate
their supremacy in the India of the morrow as they had enjoyed it in the India of the past.
But this aroused apprehension in certain sections of Hindu society. Many low-castes and Pariahs
began to fear that an independent or even autonomous India might be ruled by a tyrannical Brahmin
oligarchy which would deny them the benefits they now enjoyed under British rule.[197] Also,
many of the Hindu princes disliked the thought of a theocratic régime which might reduce them
to shadows.[198] Thus the nationalist movement stood out as an alliance between the Brahmins
and the Western-educated intelligentsia, who had pooled their ambitions in a programme for
jointly ruling India.

Quickened by this ambition and fired by religious zeal, the nationalist movement rapidly acquired
a fanatical temper characterized by a mystical abhorrence of everything Western and a ferocious
hatred of all Europeans. The Russo-Japanese War greatly inflamed this spirit, and the very
next year (1905) an act of the Indian Government precipitated the gathering storm. This act
was the famous Partition of Bengal. The partition was a mere administrative measure, with no
political intent. But the nationalists made it a "vital issue," and about this grievance they
started an intense propaganda that soon filled India with seditious unrest. The leading spirit
in this agitation was Bal Gangadhar Tilak, who has been called "the father of Indian unrest."
Tilak typified the nationalist movement. A Brahmin with an excellent Western education, he
was the sworn foe of English rule and Western civilization. An able propagandist, his speeches
roused his hearers to frenzy, while his newspaper, the Yugantar, of Calcutta, preached a campaign
of hate, assassination, and rebellion. Tilak's incitements soon produced tangible results,
numerous riots, "dacoities," and murders of Englishmen taking place. And of course the Yugantar
was merely one of a large number of nationalist organs, some printed in the vernacular and
others in English, which vied with one another in seditious invective.

The violence of the nationalist press may be judged by a few quotations. "Revolution," asserted
the Yugantar, "is the only way in which a slavish society can save itself. If you cannot prove
yourself a man in life, play the man in death. Foreigners have come and decided how you are
to live. But how you are to die depends entirely upon yourself." "Let preparations be made
for a general revolution in every household! The handful of police and soldiers will never
be able to withstand this ocean of revolutionists. Revolutionists may be made prisoners and
may die, but thousands of others will spring into their places. Do not be afraid! With the
blood of heroes the soil of Hindustan is ever fertile. Do not be downhearted. There is no dearth
of heroes. There is no dearth of money; glory awaits you! A single frown (a few bombs) from
your eyes has struck terror into the heart of the foe! The uproar of panic has filled the sky.
Swim with renewed energy in the ocean of bloodshed!" The assassination note was vehemently
stressed. Said S. Krishnavarma in The Indian Sociologist: "Political assassination is not murder,
and the rightful employment of physical force connotes 'force used defensively against force
used aggressively.'" "The only subscription required," stated the Yugantar, "is that every
reader shall bring the head of a European." Not even women and children were spared. Commenting
on the murder of an English lady and her daughter, the Yugantar exclaimed exultantly: "Many
a female demon must be killed in course of time, in order to extirpate the race of Asuras from
the breast of the earth." The fanaticism of the men (usually very young men) who committed
these assassinations may be judged by the statement of the murderer of a high English official,
Sir Curzon-Wyllie, made shortly before his execution: "I believe that a nation held down by
foreign bayonets is in a perpetual state of war. Since open battle is rendered impossible to
a disarmed race, I attacked by surprise; since guns were denied to me, I drew my pistol and
fired. As a Hindu I feel that wrong to my country is an insult to the gods. Her cause is the
cause of Shri Ram; her service is the service of Shri Krishna. Poor in wealth and intellect,
a son like myself has nothing else to offer the Mother but his own blood, and so I have sacrificed
the same on Her altar. The only lesson required in India at present is to learn how to die,
and the only way to teach it is to die ourselves; therefore I die and glory in my martyrdom.
This war will continue between England and India so long as the Hindee and English races last,
if the present unnatural relation does not cease."[199]

The government's answer to this campaign of sedition and assassination was of course stern
repression. The native press was muzzled, the agitators imprisoned or executed, and the hands
of the authorities were strengthened by punitive legislation. In fact, so infuriated was the
European community by the murders and outrages committed by the nationalists that many Englishmen
urged the withdrawal of such political privileges as did exist, the limiting of Western education,
and the establishment of extreme autocratic rule. These angry counsels were at once caught
up by the nationalists, resulted in fresh outrages, and were answered by more punishment and
fresh menaces. Thus the extremists on both sides lashed each other to hotter fury and worsened
the situation. For several years India seethed with an unrest which jailings, hangings, and
deportations did little to allay.

Presently, however, things took at least a temporary turn for the better. The extremists were,
after all, a small minority, and cool heads, both British and Indian, were seeking a way out
of the impasse. Conservative Indian leaders like Mr. Gokhale condemned terrorism, and besought
their countrymen to seek the realization of their aspirations by peaceful means. On the other
hand, liberal-minded Englishmen, while refusing to be stampeded, sought a programme of conciliation.
Indian affairs were then in the hands of the eminent Liberal statesman John Morley, and the
fruit of his labours was the Indian Councils Act of 1909. The act was a distinct departure
from the hitherto almost unlimited absolutism of British rule in India. It gave the Indian
opposition greatly increased opportunities for advice, criticism, and debate, and it initiated
a restricted scheme of elections to the legislative bodies which it established. The salutary
effect of these concessions was soon apparent. The moderate nationalist elements, while not
wholly satisfied, accepted the act as an earnest of subsequent concessions and as a proof of
British good-will. The terrorism and seditious plottings of the extremists, while not stamped
out, were held in check and driven underground. King George's visit to India in 1911 evoked
a wave of loyal enthusiasm which swept the peninsula and augured well for the future.

The year 1911 was the high-water mark of this era of appeasement following the storms of 1905-9.
The years after 1911 witnessed a gradual recrudescence of discontent as the first effect of
the Councils Act wore off and the sense of unfulfilled aspiration sharpened the appetite for
more. In fact, during these years, Indian nationalism was steadily broadening its base. In
one sense this made for stability, for the nationalist movement ceased to be a small minority
of extremists and came more under the influence of moderate leaders like Mr. Gokhale, who were
content to work for distant goals by evolutionary methods. It did, however, mean an increasing
pressure on the government for fresh devolutions of authority. The most noteworthy symptom
of nationalist growth was the rallying of a certain section of Mohammedan opinion to the nationalist
cause. The Mohammedans had by this time formed their own organization, the "All-India Moslem
League." The league was the reverse of nationalist in complexion, having been formed primarily
to protect Moslem interests against possible Hindu ascendancy. Nevertheless, as time passed,
some Mohammedans, reassured by the friendly attitude and promises of the Hindu moderates, abandoned
the league's anti-Hindu attitude and joined the moderate nationalists, though refraining from
seditious agitation. Indeed, the nationalists presently split into two distinct groups, moderates
and extremists. The extremists, condemned by their fellows, kept up a desultory campaign of
violence, largely directed by exiled leaders who from the shelter of foreign countries incited
their followers at home to seditious agitation and violent action.

Such was the situation in India on the outbreak of the Great War; a situation by no means free
from difficulty, yet far less troubled than it had been a few years before. Of course, the
war produced an increase of unrest and a certain amount of terrorism. Yet India, as a whole,
remained quiet. Throughout the war India contributed men and money unstintedly to the imperial
cause, and Indian troops figured notably on European, Asiatic, and African battlefields.

However, though the war-years passed without any serious outbreak of revolutionary violence,
it must not be thought that the far more widespread movement for increasing self-government
had been either quenched or stilled. On the contrary, the war gave this movement fresh impetus.
Louder and louder swelled the cry for not merely good government but government acceptable
to Indian patriots because responsible to them. The very fact that India had proved her loyalty
to the Empire and had given generously of her blood and treasure were so many fresh arguments
adduced for the grant of a larger measure of self-direction. Numerous were the memoranda presented
to the British authorities by various sections of Indian public opinion. These memoranda were
an accurate reflection of the different shades of Indian nationalism. The ultimate goal of
all was emancipation from British tutelage, but they differed widely among themselves as to
how and when this emancipation was to be attained. The most conservative contented themselves
with asking for modified self-government under British guidance, while the more ambitious asked
for the full status of a dominion of the British Empire like Australia and Canada. The revolutionary
element naturally held aloof, recognizing that only violence could serve their aim--immediate
and unqualified independence.

Of course even the more moderate nationalist demands implied great changes in the existing
governmental system and a diminution of British control such as the Government of India was
not prepared at present to concede. Nevertheless, the government met these demands by a conciliatory
attitude foreshadowing fresh concessions in the near future. In 1916 the Viceroy, Lord Harding,
said: "I do not for a moment wish to discountenance self-government for India as a national
ideal. It is a perfectly legitimate aspiration and has the sympathy of all moderate men, but
in the present position of India it is not idealism that is needed but practical politics.
We should do our utmost to grapple with realities, and lightly to raise extravagant hopes and
encourage unrealizable demands can only tend to delay and will not accelerate political progress.
I know this is the sentiment of wise and thoughtful Indians. Nobody is more anxious than I
am to see the early realization of the legitimate aspirations of India, but I am equally desirous
of avoiding all danger of reaction from the birth of institutions which experience might prove
to be premature."

As a matter of fact, toward the close of 1917, Mr. Montagu, Secretary of State for India, came
out from England with the object of thoroughly canvassing Indian public opinion on the question
of constitutional reform. For months the problem was carefully weighed, conferences being held
with the representatives of all races, classes, and creeds. The result of these researches
was a monumental report signed by Mr. Montagu and by the Viceroy, Lord Chelmsford, and published
in July, 1918.

The report recommended concessions far beyond any which Great Britain had hitherto made. It
frankly envisaged the gift of home rule for India "as soon as possible," and went on to state
that the gift was to be conferred not because of Indian agitation, but because of "the faith
that is in us." There followed these memorable words: "We believe profoundly that the time
has come when the sheltered existence which we have given India cannot be prolonged without
damage to her national life; that we have a richer gift for her people than any that we have
yet bestowed on them; that nationhood within the Empire represents something better than anything
India has hitherto attained; that the placid, pathetic contentment of the masses is not the
soil on which such Indian nationhood will grow, and that in deliberately disturbing it we are
working for her highest good."

The essence of the report was its recommendation of the principle of "diarchy," or division
of governmental responsibility between councillors nominated by the British executive and ministers
chosen from elective legislative bodies. This diarchy was to hold for both the central and
provincial governments. The legislatures were to be elected by a much more extensive franchise
than had previously prevailed and were to have greatly enlarged powers. Previously they had
been little more than advisory bodies; now they were to become "legislatures" in the Western
sense, though their powers were still limited, many powers, particularly that of the purse,
being still "reserved" to the executive. The British executive thus retained ultimate control
and had the last word; thus no true "balance of power" was to exist, the scales being frankly
weighted in favour of the British Raj. But the report went on to state that this scheme of
government was not intended to be permanent; that it was frankly a transitional measure, a
school in which the Indian people was to serve its apprenticeship, and that when these first
lessons in self-government had been learned, India would be given a thoroughly representative
government which would not only initiate and legislate, but which would also control the executive
officials.

The Montagu-Chelmsford Report was exhaustively discussed both in India and in England, and
from these frank discussions an excellent idea of the Indian problem in all its challenging
complexity can be obtained. The nationalists split sharply on the issue, the moderates welcoming
the report and agreeing to give the proposed scheme of government their loyal co-operation,
the extremists condemning the proposals as a snare and a sham. The moderate attitude was stated
in a manifesto signed by their leaders, headed by the eminent Indian economist Sir Dinshaw
Wacha, which stated: "The proposed scheme forms a complicated structure capable of improvement
in some particulars, especially at the top, but is nevertheless a progressive measure. The
reforms are calculated to make the provinces of India reach the goal of complete responsible
government. On the whole, the proposals are evolved with great foresight and conceived in a
spirit of genuine sympathy with Indian political aspirations, for which the distinguished authors
are entitled to the country's gratitude." The condemnation of the radicals was voiced by leaders
like Mr. Tilak, who urged "standing fast by the Indian National Congress ideal," and Mr. Bepin
Chander Pal, who asserted: "It is my deliberate opinion that if the scheme is accepted, the
Government will be more powerful and more autocratic than it is to-day."

Extremely interesting was the protest of the anti-nationalist groups, particularly the Mohammedans
and the low-caste Hindus. For it is a fact significant of the complexity of the Indian problem
that many millions of Indians fear the nationalist movement and look upon the autocracy of
the British Raj as a shield against nationalist oppression and discrimination. The Mohammedans
of India are, on the question of self-government for India, sharply divided among themselves.
The majority still dislike and fear the nationalist movement, owing to its "Hindu" character.
A minority, however, as already stated, have rallied to the nationalist cause. This minority
grew greatly in numbers during the war-years, their increased friendliness being due not merely
to desire for self-government but also to anger at the Allies' policy of dismemberment of the
Ottoman Empire and kindred policies in the Near and Middle East.[200] The Hindu nationalists
were quick to sympathize with the Mohammedans on these external matters, and the result was
a cordiality between the two elements never known before.

The predominance of high-caste Brahmins in the nationalist movement explains the opposition
of many low-caste Hindus to Indian home rule. So great is the low-caste fear of losing their
present protection under the British Raj and of being subjected to the domination of a high-caste
Brahmin oligarchy that in recent years they have formed an association known as the "Namasudra,"
led by well-known persons like Doctor Nair.[201] The Namasudra points out what might happen
by citing the Brahminic pressure which occurs even in such political activity as already exists.
For example: in many elections the Brahmins have terrorized low-caste voters by threatening
to "out-caste" all who should not vote the Brahmin ticket, thus making them "Pariahs"--untouchables,
with no rights in Hindu society.

Such protests against home rule from large sections of the Indian population gave pause even
to many English students of the problem who had become convinced of home rule's theoretical
desirability. And of course they greatly strengthened the arguments of those numerous Englishmen,
particularly Anglo-Indians, who asserted that India was as yet unfit for self-government. Said
one of these objectors in The Round Table: "The masses care not one whit for politics; Home
Rule they do not understand. They prefer the English District Magistrate. They only ask to
remain in eternal and bovine quiescence. They feel confidence in the Englishman because he
has always shown himself the 'Protector of the Poor,' and because he is neither Hindu nor Mussulman,
and has a reputation for honesty." And Lord Sydenham, in a detailed criticism of the Montagu-Chelmsford
proposals, stated: "There are many defects in our system of government in India. Reforms are
needed; but they must be based solely upon considerations of the welfare of the masses of India
as a whole. If the policy of 'deliberately' disturbing their 'contentment' which the Viceroy
and the Secretary of State have announced is carried out; if, through the 'whispering galleries
of the East,' the word is passed that the only authority that can maintain law and order and
secure the gradual building-up of an Indian nation is weakening; if, as is proposed, the great
public services are emasculated; then the fierce old animosities will break out afresh, and,
assisted by a recrudescence of the reactionary forces of Brahminism, they will within a few
years bring to nought the noblest work which the British race has ever accomplished."[202]

Yet other English authorities on Indian affairs asserted that the Montagu-Chelmsford proposals
were sound and must be enacted into law if the gravest perils were to be averted. Such were
the opinions of men like Lionel Curtis[203] and Sir Valentine Chirol, who stated: "It is of
the utmost importance that there should be no unnecessary delay. We have had object-lessons
enough as to the danger of procrastination, and in India as elsewhere time is on the side of
the troublemakers.... We cannot hope to reconcile Indian Extremism. What we can hope to do
is to free from its insidious influence all that is best in Indian public life by opening up
a larger field of useful activity."[204]

As a matter of fact, the Montagu-Chelmsford Report was accepted as the basis of discussion
by the British Parliament, and at the close of the year 1919 its recommendations were formally
embodied in law. Unfortunately, during the eighteen months which elapsed between the publication
of the report and its legal enactment, the situation in India had darkened. Militant unrest
had again raised its head, and India was more disturbed than it had been since 1909.

For this there were several reasons. In the first place, all those nationalist elements who
were dissatisfied with the report began coquetting with the revolutionary irreconcilables and
encouraging them to fresh terrorism, perhaps in the hope of stampeding the British Parliament
into wider concessions than the report had contemplated. But there were other causes of a more
general nature. The year 1918 was a black one for India. The world-wide influenza epidemic
hit India particularly hard, millions of persons being carried off by the grim plague. Furthermore,
India was cursed with drought, the crops failed, and the spectre of famine stalked through
the land. The year 1919 saw an even worse drought, involving an almost record famine. By the
late summer it was estimated that millions of persons had died of hunger, with millions more
on the verge of starvation. And on top of all came an Afghan war, throwing the north-west border
into tumult and further unsettling the already restless Mohammedan element.

The upshot was a wave of unrest revealing itself in an epidemic of riots, terrorism, and seditious
activity which gave the British authorities serious concern. So critical appeared the situation
that a special commission was appointed to investigate conditions, and the report handed in
by its chairman, Justice Rowlatt, painted a depressing picture of the strength of revolutionary
unrest. The report stated that not only had a considerable number of young men of the educated
upper classes become involved in the promotion of anarchical movements, but that the ranks
were filled with men belonging to other social orders, including the military, and that there
was clear evidence of successful tampering with the loyalty of the native troops. To combat
this growing disaffection, the Rowlatt committee recommended fresh repressive legislation.

Impressed with the gravity of the committee's report, the Government of India formulated a
project of law officially known as the Anarchical and Revolutionary Crimes Act, though generally
known as the Rowlatt Bill. By its provisions the authorities were endowed with greatly increased
powers, such as the right to search premises and arrest persons on mere suspicion of seditious
activity, without definite evidence of the same.

The Rowlatt Bill at once aroused bitter nationalist opposition. Not merely extremists, but
many moderates, condemned it as a backward step and as a provoker of fresh trouble. When the
bill came up for debate in the Indian legislative body, the Imperial Legislative Council, all
the native members save one opposed it, and the bill was finally passed on strictly racial
lines by the votes of the appointed English majority. However, the government considered the
bill an absolute pre-requisite to the successful maintenance of order, and it was passed into
law in the spring of 1919.

