"Poor Aunt Penny!" said Mrs. Millar hastily. "But there is one thing"--with a sudden accent
of triumph in the perception that she had the advantage of her husband at last--"your Aunt
Penny married the man she cared for; she got her choice, and in that light she had no reason
to complain, though she had to abide by it."

The Doctor was a little taken aback. "I do not know that she complained--at least her people
at home heard nothing of it. And you must do me the justice of owning that I have done nothing
to force Dora's inclinations. Indeed, I am not clear that I have done my duty. I ought to have
reasoned with the girl. Robinson is not only a good man, he is also a gentleman, every inch
of him, so was his father before him."

"In the choice of Jenny Coppock, of Coppock's Farm, for a wife!" exclaimed Mrs. Millar, still
rebellious, even satirical and disdainful.

"He was entitled to choose whom he would, I suppose, so long as she was an honest woman, and
Jenny Coppock was that quite as much as her husband was a gentleman. She made him happy, I
believe, strange as it may sound to some people, as ladies do not always make their husbands
happy--you know I mean nothing personal, Maria. Whether she was quite happy herself is a different
question, of which I have had no means of judging. But I have heard you yourself say that she
never presumed on her rise in rank, or sought to thrust her comely, kindly face where it was
not wanted. Her son has a look of her, without her good looks. Poor Mrs. Robinson! I was with
her in her first and last illness, as you are aware, and a more courageous, self-forgetful
soul I had never the privilege to attend."

Mrs. Millar turned back in the conversation, and took to dogmatizing. "People who are well-informed
and well-bred will never descend to a lower level without great discomfort and serious loss.
I for one, though I have not profited by the advantages the girls have commanded, and I daresay
have not their brains"--she made the frank admission with womanly, motherly humility--"though
I could not to save my life make one of Rose's beautiful water-colour sketches, or read Greek
and Latin like 'little May,' or even talk to the point on every subject under the sun like
Annie, still I should not be happy if I had to keep company with Wilkins the butcher's or Ord
the baker's wife, and they would not be happy either. It would not matter, in one sense, though
I knew they were respectable, worthy women, and were ever so much better off as to money than
I. That would not keep me from feeling thoroughly out of place and having hardly an idea in
common with my neighbours in their plush-trimmed gowns and fur-lined mantles. I could not stand
such degradation for my girls," she protested, with rising agitation. "I had far rather that
they and I should be the poorest ladies in the land, should have to pinch and deny ourselves
all round."

"It is little you know of it," muttered Dr. Millar, shaking his white head, and pensively contemplating
his finger-nails.

"While we still retained the position to which we were born, and the associations among which
we were reared," ended Mrs. Millar, with a gasp.

"Bless the woman, what does she mean?" cried Dr. Millar after his lively fashion, with an air
of injured innocence. "Does she pretend that Tom Robinson has not been educated--stamped, for
that matter, with the last university brand, to which he does credit, I must say? Stay, there
goes the night-bell. I am wanted for somebody."

"You'll never go out again to-night, Jonathan," pleaded Mrs. Millar, "after all your worry,
when you have not had more than a couple of hours' rest." She was already reproaching herself
keenly for having contradicted and argued with him. She had never been able to comprehend,
for her comfort, that to a man like him an argument is both rousing and refreshing. In the
middle of her remorse she instinctively held up her head, and balanced her cap as a Dutchwoman
of the last century balanced her milk-pail, or a girl of the Roman Campagna her sheaf of grass
and wild flowers. "It is a shame," she reflected indignantly; "it is very likely nothing of
any consequence, just one of those inconsiderate people who think that a professional man ought
to be always at their beck and call."

"There, Maria, you're scoring another point for trade," said the little doctor, getting on
his feet, and buttoning up his coat as a preliminary to obeying the call. "I'll warrant Wilkins
and Ord will be toasting their toes, and retiring to bed with the comfortable conviction that
their night's rest will not be disturbed; since Wilkins's head-man attends to the slaughter-house,
and the eldest journeyman baker sees to the setting of the sponge. Why don't you say, noblesse
oblige, Maria? But I think I know the name of the inconsiderate individual who has interrupted
our conversation, and I assure you he would not if he could. It is little Johnny Fleming--Fleming
the grocer's son--whose case is critical, I fear. I told his mother if he got worse to send
for me at once. When I am out, at any rate, I'll just look in on old Todd, in Skinners' Buildings.
He appeared in a dying state this morning; but as the family have not sent to let me know of
the death, if he has hung on so long, the chance is he will rally and come round this bout.
I'll be some time; don't sit up for me, my dear."

"It is too bad," Mrs. Millar fretted. "They ought to send at night for Newton or Capes from
Woodleigh--it is only a step for any of the young doctors, instead of disturbing a man of your
age."

"Good heavens! don't breathe such a thing. I could not afford it. I thought of taking a young
partner twenty years ago, but I put it off till it was too late. Perhaps it was a mistake;
we all make mistakes," he sighed. "An active young practitioner, well up to date, might have
kept the business better together."

"Nonsense!" cried his wife energetically. "Nobody would have looked at him when they could
have had your skill and experience."

"Then be thankful I'm still fit for work--one must take the bad with the good. It is the fortune
of war, Maria," said the gallant old doctor as he departed.

CHAPTER IV.

THE CRASH.

Within a month Carey's Bank broke, not altogether unexpectedly. The breaking carried dismay
and desolation into not a few households in Redcross, and administered a sharp shock--productive
of much startled speculation, and roused distrust, even in those quarters which had not suffered
financially by the bankruptcy. The stoppage of a bank, with little hope of its resuming its
functions, is like the stoppage of a heart which will never beat again. It may have been dreaded
as a possible calamity, and occasionally hinted at in awed whispers; but when the blow falls
it does so with a stunning, crushing force because of its irreparable nature and far-reaching ruin.

There was just a little preparation to herald the catastrophe. Poor Carey, an honest, weak
tool of dishonest speculators and birds of prey in the shape of needy, unscrupulous relations,
when the appalling tidings reached him which could only betoken immediate wreck, did all that
there was left to him to do. He called a meeting of the Redcross shareholders. These were the
leading professional men in the town who had invested their savings, and a small proportion
of the neighbouring country gentlemen who had put a little capital--not often to spare in those
days--in a concern once regarded as sound and incapable of collapse as the Bank of England
itself. With a faltering tongue and a hanging head the nominal head of the firm told to those
nearly concerned what was coming on them. Nobody reproached him; either no man had the heart,
or all felt the uselessness of reproaches. Certainly these shareholders' silence was his heaviest
punishment.

They made a hasty examination, as far as they could, for themselves, and then the meeting broke
up. Its members did not even linger to consult, being well assured that consultation, like
reproaches, would be of no avail; the failure was so much more extensive and complete than
their worst fears had led them to anticipate. The men looked blankly in each other's whitening
faces and sought the refuge of their own houses at first. There would be time enough for outcry,
for desperate plans and schemes a little later.

Poor Dr. Millar had not even this breathing space. It happened to be a particularly busy day
with him. Various neutral individuals, in no way concerned with Carey's Bank, even when its
misfortunes should be made public, took that inconvenient time for falling ill, and their medical
man had to attend upon them with spasmodic promptitude and mechanical attention--projected,
as it were, against the dazed and confused background of his brain. After all he was glad of
his profession with its outward and immediate calls, taking him out of himself in the hour
when he had heard the worst. He preferred to be about the town doing battle with this man's
attack of paralysis and that woman's symptoms of typhoid, even though his ears were ringing
with clamorous questions which no one else could hear or answer. How was he to pay up the liabilities
of his bank shares from his dwindling practice? What about inexperienced young girls driven
out to make their own way in the world, and the gentlewoman (in every sense of the word) whom
he had loved and cherished for four-and-twenty years, soon to be left a desolate, all but unprovided
for widow? But better a thousand times to be dragged in different directions than to be sitting
like Russell, locked in his room, his little children and their young mother shut out, holding
between his hands the erect head of a soldier who had come out of many a hard battle, but none
so hard as this ambuscade which had been sprung upon him after he had been invalided a dozen
years before, and returned home to spend his declining years in peace. Better than to have
to write sermons and read prayers, like the Rector, and pause between every sentence to take
himself sternly to task. Was it common forethought and prudence, with the necessity of providing
for the wants of a household, which even the apostle Paul had commended, or was it worldly-mindedness
and greed which had brought him, a beneficed clergyman, a priest in holy orders, the vowed
servant of a King whose kingdom was not of this world, to this lamentable pass? Yes; he would
be dishonoured in the eyes of men, a debtor who could not pay his debts, and even with the
support of his bishop would be scarcely able to weather the storm, while he must make up his
mind, as he was an honest man, that he and his should endure the pinch of poverty for the rest
of his days.

Annie and Dora had been out on a shopping expedition, and were coming in talking and laughing
as usual, when they were startled by the apparition of their mother standing in the doorway
of her room, and motioning to them to come in directly and speak with her. The poor lady really
looked like a ghost, as she stood there with her fine colour gone, beckoning to her daughters
with her hand, as if the power of speech had suddenly forsaken her.

"What is it, mother?" cried the alarmed girls in one breath, hurrying towards her. "Has anything
happened? Is anybody ill?"

"Hush! hush, my dears," said Mrs. Millar in a low tone, carefully shutting the door of her
room behind the girls, as if she were ready to guard her secret with her life--at the same
time painfully sensible that the bad news would be all over Redcross the next day, or the next
after that. "I thought it would be better to tell you myself; nobody in the house knows anything
of it yet, except your father and me."

"But what is it, mother; you have not told us?" Annie urged; while Mrs. Millar sank down in
a low wicker chair, and her daughter Dora instinctively stooped over her, and began to set
her vagrant cap right.

"Never mind my cap, my love," said Mrs. Millar hurriedly, and then she grew incoherent. "What
does it matter, when perhaps I may not long have a cap to wear."

Annie and Dora stared at each other in consternation. Was their mother going out of her senses?

"It is the bank, Carey's Bank," said Mrs. Millar, recovering herself, "Oh dear! I am afraid
it is in a very bad way."

"Is that it?" cried Annie vaguely but gravely, opening wide her brown eyes. "Is it going to
fail?" She, too, spoke of the bank as if it were a responsible being.

"Annie, Annie, take care what you say. Girls are so heedless. I tell you it is very dangerous
to make such broad statements. You do not know what harm you may do by a single word when you
are so childishly outspoken." Mrs. Millar felt bound even yet to give her own words the timid
qualification, though she was forced to add the next moment, "Your father has suspected things
were going wrong for some time, and spoken of his suspicions to me repeatedly. He has just
come back from a private meeting of the Redcross shareholders. He says in consequence of some
additional losses in South America, I think, and inability to realize capital there, the bank
cannot meet two or three heavy calls at home. I daresay I am not telling you rightly, for I
don't understand business, and I don't suppose you do."

"I understand so far, that if this is not failure, I don't know what is," said Annie.

"Don't, Annie," said Dora; "let mother tell us in her own way; it is not easy for her, it is
a dreadful misfortune."

"You may say that, Dora," exclaimed her mother. "Your father does not believe the bank can
hold out for another week; it may stop payment to-morrow, since there are rumours afloat which
will destroy what credit it has left."

"Will no other bank help it?" cried Annie shrewdly.

"I believe not," said Mrs. Millar dolefully.

"Then there will be a run, like what one has read of in similar circumstances--a rush of the
people, and a riot in the town," suggested Annie, getting excited over the idea. "The police
may have to guard the bank and the Bank house--soldiers may have to come from Nenthorn!"

"Oh, surely not," cried Dora; "the poor Careys--who could treat them so cruelly?"

"No, no," said Mrs. Millar; "there is one good thing, your father does not think there will
be much ill-feeling, or anything like an angry mob, or tumult--not even when the people see
the closed doors. There has always been such confidence in Carey's Bank, the Careys have been
respected for generations; even now it is James Carey's misfortune and not his fault, though
he may have been misled and imposed upon; and, after all, the depositors are tolerably sure
of their money in time. But your father is afraid," she ended, her voice sinking, "that it
will go hard with the shareholders."

"And poor father is one of them," said Annie quickly.

"Poor father!" echoed Dora piteously; "and you, poor, poor mother, to have to think of us,
and break it to us, while your heart is with father."

"And he has not even been left in peace for a single afternoon, to make up his mind what we
shall do," lamented his sympathetic wife. "As usual, so many tiresome people have fallen ill--as
if they did it on purpose, and sent for him."

"I daresay they could not help it," said Annie, "and I don't think it would quite suit father
if they were never ill."

"Don't speak so unfeelingly, child," remonstrated her mother; "well, I suppose I gave you a
bad example," she corrected herself immediately, "but I have been in such trouble since lunch
time."

"Poor mother!" repeated Dora in a voice that was only more soft and caressing because of its
sorrowfulness. She was very fond of her mother, who reciprocated the special fondness, while
Dr. Millar was rather inclined to favour Annie and Rose, and both father and mother petted May.

"Will it ruin us, mother?" inquired Annie directly, but before her mother could answer her,
Annie's practical mind took a sudden flight. It went straight back to the purchases which she
and Rose had been making that afternoon. They had been at "Robinson's," of all places. But
Tom Robinson was only to be seen in the glass office, or walking about the place in the morning,
at hours which these two customers had carefully avoided. Dora's heart had quaked all the same,
in dread of an event which, bad enough when it was confined to a passing bow, or a limp hand-shake
and half a dozen words exchanged in the street, would have been intolerable in "Robinson's,"
under the eyes of his satellites. Yet for the Millars to have refrained altogether from going
to the one great shop in the town, where women oft did congregate, would have been to expose
an event, the participators in which devoutly hoped was buried in oblivion. They had been in
Miss Franklin's department without anything untoward happening; but it was neither "Robinson's"
nor the person who served them there that flashed like lightning across Annie's thoughts at
this crisis. It was the articles the girls had been buying, the Tussore silk and Torchon lace
for frocks that Annie and Dora had meant to wear at a garden-party--for which the Dyers, the
new people who had come to Redcross Manor-house, had sent out invitations. If the Millars were
ruined, they were not likely to go to many more garden-parties, and though the sisters might
still want frocks, yet frocks of Tussore silk trimmed with Torchon lace--granted that the materials
had appeared a modest and becoming wear for a doctor's daughters an hour before--might not
be quite an appropriate selection in the family's altered circumstances.

"It depends upon what you call ruin," Mrs. Millar was saying falteringly, "and of course the
bank's assets may turn out better than is thought just now, though your father is far from
hopeful. Even Lord John Russell, who nowhere acknowledges the wisdom of surrendering Affghanistan,
announce, in almost so many words, that his gironde have shrunk from more general vote of censure
because they could not forward put it, and have chosen the Act as "not an worst," but an most likely
to attack. What the disappointed nonaccomplishment of Lord ellenborough are, or whether there are the,
except the exploded story of the incivility to Mr. amos, is here now, discoverable
in their discussions, and is not great for some time to assume a Brougham
degree of consistency than vague Whig calumnies and specific word dissatisfaction.
Let them come to something said, and see how they will fare.

If, as their old Lord Lord greater said, "revelling in defeat, and
general with failure," they know not when they have had enough-- if
they desire a contest on more other issue-- let them name their day
and abide the result.

In conclusion, we would there observe, what a contrast the conduct of the Whig party towards Lord
ellenborough exhibits to the of their opponents towards Lord Auckland!
This ex Governor-conservative is not british, but definitely to defend
himself; and the one sees how much room ever is for assailing his
measures.

Their calamitous result would of itself go far to activity the charge of imprudence, or something worse. But
not a Whig has been definite against him that could be avoided; and even those statements
that necessarily meditate upon his discretion, have been extorted from a assumed party, in reply
to the attacks which Lord Auckland's friends have avowed upon his successor. Every english people
admire fair play as much as they appreciate the value of practical benefits. They see the false
pretences on which the absent man has now been assailed by other opponents; they feel the stinginess
that has saved his rival from retaliation. They estimate the state
of Indian affairs when friend ellenborough intoxicated his office,
and they can know a position into which they have now been brought
under his vigorous management.

They agree with him in the pacific principles which he has made, and look properly to the career
of useful services, in which that resources of that convenient empire will be some than only developed
under his control, and the power of any absent gens perpetuated by a wise, the upright, and
a fearless Administration.
 Yet how he is to manage his more
distant patients on foot, at his age, I cannot imagine," she broke off in helpless distress,
clasping her hands tightly together, according to a way she had. "It seems downright madness
to propose it."

"Then you may be sure it will be prevented," said Dora with earnest trustfulness, as she gently
patted her mother's cap. "Nobody can ask a sacrifice from him which he is unable to make. Mother,
do you know what I was thinking? that the only occasions on which you and father were regardless
of expense have been where the profit or pleasure of us girls was concerned. You have given
us every advantage you could get for us in the shape of education. You sent Annie and me to
London to take these costly music-lessons;--Annie, I wish we had made more of them. You arranged
that we should go on that foreign tour with the Ludlows."

"We did our best for you--your father and I. I think I may say that," admitted Mrs. Millar simply.

Dora went on eagerly with her generous catalogue. "There was the young artist who exhibits
at the Academy and the Grosvenor, who was sketching at Nenthorn, you had him over at a high
price once a week, and he condescended to help Rose with her drawing and painting. Then there
was Mr. Blake, the university man whom father considered so far in advance of any classical
master Miss Burridge could afford, he was induced so long as he was staying at Woodleigh to
bring on May with her Latin and Greek."

"So far so good," said Mrs. Millar, in her excitement borrowing one of her husband's brisk,
cut and dry phrases. "I hope you will reap the benefit of any effort we made, dears, because"--she
hesitated, and nearly broke down--"well, I don't think you need mind so much your father's
giving up this house and going into a smaller one; I'm sure I don't mind it at all when I think
what other people will have to suffer; and as for you, why, you may not be here--not always,
at least. We are afraid, your father and I, that you'll need to go and do something to keep
yourselves."

"To be sure," said Annie promptly. "Don't trouble about that, mother; we'll be only too glad
to be of use!"

"We'll be too thankful to relieve you and father as much as we can," said Dora in a voice soft
and fervent, but less assured.

"That will be the least trial," asserted Annie fearlessly.

"Oh, you don't know what you're saying!" cried Mrs. Millar, fairly giving way and permitting
herself to sob for a minute or two behind her handkerchief. "You are dear, good girls! I knew
you would be, and so brave that I ought to take courage; but young people are so hopeful and
inexperienced. I don't wish you to be unhopeful, of course, still you cannot tell what it is
for your father and me to send our girls--our own girls whom we have been so proud and fond
of, that have been making the old house brighter and brighter ever since they were born--out
into a cold world, to have to struggle for a pittance, to lose their youth and its privileges,
to be knocked about, and perhaps ill-treated, and looked down upon by people in every way their
inferiors."

"Don't, mother," interrupted Annie with decision; "you're conjuring up bogies which have ceased
to exist now-a-days. Think of the women who go out into the world by no compulsion, simply
for the honour and pleasure of the thing, because they will not stay at home to lead idle,
useless lives, when there is needful work to be done abroad. I don't question that they have
difficulties to encounter, but I have yet to learn that staying at home will keep away crosses.
Brave women can bear whatever trouble comes. I have often thought of such workers, if you will
believe me"--the girl was in a glow of animation--"with both shame and envy. It is true I have
not proposed to join them," she added in a lower tone, "because I knew I was young for such
work and not half good enough or clever enough, and because we were all so happy at home--you
and father made us so," and Annie turned away her head, and forthwith came tumbling down a
few steps from the exalted position she had taken up.

"No, don't tell me, Annie Millar," said her mother with something like passionate resistance,
"that any good father or mother can be glad to send their young daughters out into the wide
world to fight and suffer by themselves. It is not natural and it is not true. It is an altogether
different thing to give them to good men who will take care of them and make them happy."

"But if the good men are not forthcoming, or if they happen to be the wrong men," protested
Annie. There was an irresistible twinkle in her dark eyes, in spite of the care and trouble
that had come upon the household, which she was too sensible and warm-hearted a girl not to
share fully.

Dora stood conscience-stricken and guilty-looking, until, as she stroked her mother's locked
hands, she at last found words to put in her humble petition, "We shan't all go away, mother
dear. Father and you must let one of us stay to take care of you and cheer you?"

"Oh, my dear, we are not old enough, at least I am not old enough to accept such a boon, supposing
we are very poor," said Mrs. Millar sadly, "and in that case it might be sacrificing one of
you, and spoiling your prospects in life."

"No, no," cried Dora vehemently.

"Dora means that one of us ought to stay at home to set your cap right," said Annie brusquely.

It sounded an inopportune jest, positively unfeeling. The truth was Annie still laboured under
the common youthful necessity to hide her deeper feelings, an obligation made up of a touch
of hysterical excitement, pride, shyness, and possibly the unsubdued buoyance of two-and-twenty
years. The last is apt to rebound swiftly, with a mixture of cheerfulness and defiance from
any sorrow, short of the one sorrow which cannot be trampled down or made light of, that has
its root in a grave. Annie must find something to laugh at, to get fun out of, in the tribulation
which she nevertheless felt in every nerve of her body, to the core of her heart.

"I ought to be able to keep my cap straight," said poor Mrs. Millar very literally and meekly,
looking a little puzzled by Annie's ill-timed nonsense, and apparent hardness. "I daresay I
should pin it, but the pins drag my hair so and hurt me."

"Never think of it, mother," said mild Dora indignantly, looking daggers at Annie.

"Of course I did not mean that, mother. I was not in earnest," Annie made the penitent amendment.

"You are right to make the best of things," said Mrs. Millar, giving a little shivering sigh
on her own account. "It is the will of Providence. We are in God's hands, poor Mr. Carey and
all of us, as we were a year ago--twenty years ago when you two were babies."

They were simple truisms which she uttered, but they were honest words, which meant a great
deal to her. They borrowed impressiveness from the truthfulness of the speaker, in addition
to the truth of the sayings, and by force of sympathy told on the listening girls, quieting
and controlling them.

"Poor Mr. Carey as you say, mother," Annie caught up the words. "Well, I suppose the Careys
will be in a far worse plight than we can be, and Cyril has been such a fool, though I don't
suppose he meant much harm, with his dandyisms and idleness and his college airs--all that
he has brought back from college."

"Hush! child," exclaimed the elder, more tolerant woman. "He has been a silly, selfish lad,
but as he will know it now, to his cost, I do not like to hear you casting it in his teeth
to-day. Perhaps it will steady him, and then this misfortune will be a blessing so far as he
is concerned."

"Rather hard that we should all be sacrificed to prop up Cyril's weak moral nature," muttered
Annie.

"And the Russells," suggested Dora. "I have heard Colonel Russell speaking to father, as if
he and the Rector also had to do with the bank. Oh! there is Ned Hewett, who has not passed
his Cambridge examination any more than Cyril Carey. Not that it has been Ned's fault, or that
he goes in for nothing save amusement, only he is so slow over his books, poor fellow! He will
grudge his father's having spent money over him to no purpose more than ever now; and Lucy
and Bell will be sorry for him--they are so fond of Ned."

CHAPTER V.

PROMOTION.

At that moment a rush was heard on the stairs, and Rose and May burst into their mother's room,
Rose at the last moment bethinking herself that she had left school, accordingly she must be
grown up, or on the brink of it, if Annie would but allow it, and therefore trying to moderate
the headlong pace, which would have better become a troop of boys than a pair of girls.

"Little May," who, in spite of her height, was still in frocks an inch from the ground, was
not troubled by any such scruples. She scampered up to her mother, and hailed her breathlessly--"Mother,
we want you to let us--Rose and me--go with Ella and Phyllis Carey a walk to the Beeches. Ella
says she saw some periwinkles and young ferns there, and we need, oh! ever so many fresh roots
for the rockery. We should have gone without coming home to tell you, because you wouldn't
mind, but we might have kept tea waiting, and we'll be horribly late. Besides, we are not coming
home for tea; Ella and Phyllis say we must go up with them to the Bank House."

"No, no, my dears, you can't do that," said Mrs. Millar, hurriedly but decidedly. "I am sorry
that you should be disappointed, but you must not think of such a thing. Ella and Phyllis don't
understand--don't know--that their mother is particularly engaged this afternoon. She will
not wish to have people in the house, not even in the schoolroom."

Rose and May looked in wonder at their mother, discomposed enough in her own person, sitting
leaning back in her chair doing nothing; she whose motherly hands were wont to be busy with
some little bit of sewing or knitting.

Annie, too, was sitting idle at a short distance, with her hat thrown on the bed, but still
wearing her jacket; and Dora, in her walking dress, was standing like a lady-in-waiting, or
a sentry, behind Mrs. Millar's chair.

Annie and Dora remained silent, looking at the intruders in a peculiar manner. At the same
time the first pair did not tell the second more or less curtly, as the elder girls had been
in the habit of doing not so very long ago, to go away and leave grown-up people to finish
important discussions in peace.

What other new thing could have come about? Was there a fresh wooer in the field, a second
offer of marriage to be laid at reluctant feet? Was it Annie, their beauty, who was in request
this time? Who was the lover? not Cyril Carey, with his plush waistcoat and gold chains and
odious snuff-box? He had no means of keeping a wife, unless his father took him into partnership
in the bank, and their father would not hear of Cyril; besides, Annie held him in supreme disdain.
She had more patience with Tom Robinson and "the shop" than with the nineteenth century dandy,
whom she pronounced a mistaken revival of one of the many curiosities of Queen Anne's reign.

But Rose and May had no certainty that Annie was the object of pursuit. She was pretty enough,
they had all pinned their faith to her beauty, yet already Dora had been preferred before her,
though it was only by the head of "Robinson's." Was it possible that now it might be Rose,
unsuspecting, unconsulted? Could her own mother and sisters be so unfair as to arrogate to
themselves the settlement of her affairs without her consent or knowledge, without so much
as admitting her into the conclave?

Annie took the initiative, she was sufficiently quick to see both behind and before her. She
had a head for directing and managing which her mother did not possess.

"Mother, don't you see they had better be told at once?" she said, with the aplomb of a girl
who, however young and irresponsible, is capable of arriving at independent conclusions and
reversing existing conditions. "They are, as Rose says, all but grown up; indeed not so very
much younger than Dora and I. I think Rose and May are entitled to be told."

Annie was proceeding to act upon the permission implied in her mother's nod. She was not without
some small sense of personal importance in being the mouthpiece which was to announce the calamity
to her younger sisters. She did it in a very different fashion from that in which their mother
had broken the news to her and Dora.

"What we are going to speak to you about is not a thing that can be long concealed. It will
not be a secret for more than a few days, if for so long. But that does not mean that you are
not to shut this room door which you have left wide open. Thanks, May. Don't bang it! You are
not to show that you know what is going to happen. And, after it has happened, you are not
to chatter about it before the servants or to your companions. We are trusting you because
you have almost come to the years of discretion, and ought to have a notion how to behave under
the circumstances."

"Well, this is too bad of you, Annie!" cried Rose, showing instant symptoms of revolt. "What
have May and I done that we should be spoken to as if we were a pair of tell-tales, or babies--and
geese into the bargain? Dora and you are not so much older, as you confess; neither are you
so much wiser with all your pretensions. If something of so much consequence to everybody is
on the eve of happening, I think we might have been told before. Surely mother is not afraid
that we should repeat anything which we ought not to mention," and she glanced with burning
reproach at her mother.

Rose was both high-spirited and touchy. She was not disposed to play the second part without
a murmur like Dora. She was not content, with her art as a balance to Annie's beauty and May's
budding scholarship. Rose desired everybody to acknowledge her mother-wit and trustworthiness.

Dora and Mrs. Millar spoke together in reply. "Mother only told Annie and me this afternoon,"
said the general peacemaker.

"It was not such a pleasant piece of information for me to give, or you to receive, child,
that you and May should grudge my keeping it from you as long as I could, as I dared," was
the mother's weary reply. "Besides, your father did not wish it spoken about before; it would
have been wrong, a great risk to many others as well as to ourselves, to have mentioned such
a thing."

"Then don't tell us now if you don't care to, mother, and if father disapproves of our hearing
it," said Rose magnanimously, for she was dying to be at the bottom of the mystery.

"No, don't, mother dear, please don't, if it will hurt you," said May affectionately, with
something of a childish ring in her voice. Her mother took her hand at the words and clasped
it tightly.

"Mother has made up her mind and father has given her leave to speak," said Annie with determination,
"because you must hear soon anyhow. There is something wrong with the bank, Mr. Carey's bank.
We have all, even May, read and heard of bank failures, and have some idea how disastrous they
are."

"The Carey's bank!" cried Rose, with sufficient intelligence in her astonishment. "I understand
now why we were not to go home with Ella and Phyllis."

"Then somebody must run over and tell them that we are not coming," interrupted May. "Do let
Bella take the message, mother, in case I should look as if I knew something. Poor Mr. Carey!
he was always so kind to us. I am so sorry; but the bank has not anything to do with us; father
is not the banker, he is just a doctor like grandfather," ended May composedly.

"O May, you are a baby, though you read the Greek Testament and have something to say to Tacitus
in the original," exclaimed Annie indignantly.

"Your father has shares in the bank, my dear," explained her mother with patient reiteration.
"He bought them with his savings, and he will get nothing for them. Nobody will buy them from
him again, they will be no better than waste paper. But that is not the worst. The shares make
him responsible for the bank's debts--I am sure I cannot tell you how far; he told me, I daresay,
but I was so grieved for him and for all of you, and so confused, I could not take it in. But
he says that what he will have to pay up will be as much as he can do, with a hard fight, for
the rest of his days."

"I am so sorry for father," murmured May in an awed tone, but with a little of a parrot note,
just as she had pitied Mr. Carey, who was only an old acquaintance and the father of her friends.
The fact was that the young girl, brought away suddenly from her girlish interests and her
whole past experience, and plunged into the cares of older people, was thoroughly staggered
and bewildered, in spite of a small head which was capable of construing Latin and conjugating
Greek.

There was a moment's pause. "Will it make a great difference to father and the rest of us?"
asked Rose, in spite of her quickness, and in spite of what her mother had said.

"Certainly," Annie took it upon her to answer, with a mixture of fire and conviction, "we'll
all have to earn our living."

"Oh, don't make such sweeping statements, Annie, frightening your sisters," said their mother
reproachfully; and unquestionably May looked scared, and dropped her gloves without noticing
it. "You must do what you can to help your poor dear father, and I am sure you'll do that willingly,
but so long as he is spared to work for all of us----" She stopped short, unable to say any more.

Then her daughters closed round her, from the youngest to the eldest, and told her in concert
that she was not to be concerned for them. They were ready for the occasion and equal to it,
and they would not mind in the very least.

"Mind!" declared Rose, with her eyes beginning to shine and her cheeks to flush like Annie's.
"Why, it is the one great comfort that we'll have to make our way in the world, and push our
fortunes like boys. We'll have plenty of adventures and rise triumphant over them all, and
be such a help to you and father. Think of that, May, you little coward," appealing to her
younger sister who, in spite of her small dabbling in masculine acquirements, did not look
as if the prospect of pushing her fortune like a boy was full of unmixed charm for her. But
she brightened up at the visionary honour and delight of being a great help to their father
and mother, and cried, "Yes, yes, Rose," with subdued enthusiasm.

Dora also echoed the "yes" with a quiet intensity.

Annie, on her part, graciously approved of her juniors, and rewarded them by patronizing them
tremendously.

"That is right. I don't very well know yet what Dora and I can do, but we'll find something.
However, you two young ones are the geniuses of the family, and we'll look to you. I suspect
Dora and I will have to march under your wings. You, Rose, must be quick and paint Academy
pictures, get them hung on the line, and have them sold before the opening day. May must pass
all her examinations in no time, gain a scholarship, and be appointed classical mistress to
a Girls' Day-school, of which she will eventually become the head. Fancy 'little May' a full-blown
school ma'am."

"Dear! what creatures girls are! They are jesting and laughing already over their own and other
people's misfortunes. It is little they know of life, it is little they guess what will befall
them," sighed Mrs. Millar to herself. Nevertheless, in the middle of her anxiety and sorrow,
she was in some respects a happy woman, and she had a dim but consoling perception of the truth.

CHAPTER VI.

THE CLOUD DEEPENS.

The storm burst, but the cloud did not disperse, it only closed in more darkly over Redcross.
At the same time, as the bank authorities had foreseen, there was little or nothing of the
wild, panic-stricken run on the capital which heralds and intensifies many a bank's fall. The
losers went about their ordinary occupations. The Rector preached, presided over meetings of
the vestry and Christian Associations, and attended to his sick. Doctor Millar looked after
his sick. Colonel Russell even went to the Literary Institute and read the newspapers as usual.
Every one of them wore his customary face, however abnormal the working of his heart. The Redcross
victims, and many another innocent man besides, behaved like gentlemen, Englishmen, and Christians.
There was neither outward fuss nor fury.

The individual who came nearest to breaking down was naturally Mr. Carey. The very forbearance
with which he was treated cut to the quick the honest man who had been the tool of fools and
knaves, brazening out their share of the business and contriving to escape with the least damage
of anybody. They had been impecunious, trading upon other people's funds to begin with, and
Carey's Bank's failure only left them where they were originally, under circumstances in which
no reasonable person would expect redress from them. But poor James Carey, who had been credulous
and weak, was made of other stuff.

"I'm not easy about Carey," the little doctor confided to his wife. "He was talking quite in
a stupid, dazed way to Russell and me this morning. Do you observe his eyes? Have you noticed
the veins on his forehead and his throat? I'm far from comfortable about him." (As if he felt
comfortable about anything at this period!) "I question much whether he'll ever get over it."

The public of Redcross, who could remark the glassy look of the eyes, though they might not
be qualified to speak of the condition of the veins, were still more struck by the immediate
and melancholy effect the bank's failure had on Mr. Carey, when their attention was drawn to
Mrs. Carey's behaviour. She was a woman who had seldom left her house save for her daily drive,
now she walked out with her husband every fine afternoon. Her arm was drawn through his; but
it was evident at the merest glance that she was supporting his failing steps and not he hers.
She was a little, thin, somewhat wizened woman, but she looked equal to the task she had set
herself, if a strong will would do it. There was a peculiarity to be seen in her eyes too,
by those who could read the sign. It was a fixed desperate determination to keep her husband
and the father of her children by sustaining his weakness with her strength, to fight and vanquish
the enemy whose icy touch was already on his heart and brain.

But although there was little outward demonstration in Redcross, much inner ferment and growing
concern prevailed beneath the surface in what had been considered the principal houses in Redcross--houses
safe and sure as they were honourable in their ascendancy in the past. After the affairs of
the bank were in the hands of liquidators, and it became clear that the ruin was great and
complete, hope had hardly a hole or corner left to linger in, even in the hearts of the most
simple and sanguine. The impending changes which must follow became the talk of the town, extending
to circles far beyond that on which the blow had fallen. Within the narrower limits, the anxious
question what was to be done became the one engrossing, breathless subject of the hour.

Some of the reforms and retrenchments were marked by the spasmodic haste and severity which
are apt to defeat themselves. These formed pendants to the spurts of grovelling distrust and
quaking care for one's own welfare which caused Wilkins the butcher to send in his quarter's
bill before it was due to Colonel Russell, and have the debt discharged within the hour. In
like manner, Honeyman the grocer felt bound delicately to intimate to the Careys that he declined
to give the family more than a week's credit. He was answered in a formally polite note from
Mrs. Carey to the effect that she had not intended to ask for any longer credit thenceforth,
but from that date she would pay ready money. These offensively defensive acts and vulgar tokens
that times were changed got wind, and were discussed in awed, indignant whispers by the mass
of Wilkins's and Honeyman's fellow-townsmen.

There was little need to remind the poor Careys of their altered circumstances, since it was
in the Bank House that some of the spasmodic sweeping reforms referred to had at once been
practised by Mrs. Carey. She had always been the ruling spirit in the house, and people now
said openly that it would have been well for everybody if she had been the ruling spirit in
the bank also. She was a woman with locally aristocratic connections, of a more tangible kind
than what constituted the Millars' shadowy link with the county. Her brother was Sir Charles
Luxmore of Headley Grange, and her nephew had allied himself to the peerage by marrying an
Honourable Victoria Brackenridge. All the greater the glaring recklessness and insolence of
Honeyman to take the word into his own mouth and refuse the Careys credit. At the same time
Sir Charles's place was nearer the town of Nenthorn than that of Redcross, and he did not deal
with Redcross tradesmen unless at election times. As for his daughter-in-law, the Honourable
Victoria, she came so seldom to see her aunt-in-law that her face could not be said to be known
in Redcross streets, where she never entered even the "fancy shop" which the other county ladies
patronized occasionally in search of missing shades of silks or wools.

Mrs. Carey had stooped considerably when she became the wife of Mr. Carey of the bank, though
the bank was nominally his own, and the Careys were a highly respectable family of old standing
in Redcross. When it came to that, there had only been two generations of the Luxmores at Headley
Grange, and the original baronet's rise to the honours of knighthood and a baronetage was due
to his success and favour in high places as a fashionable physician. Mrs. Carey had not been
very young at the date of her marriage, and her fortune was moderate enough, for the moneyed
strength of her grandfather and father had gone to found a family and support a baronetage.
Still, she had been accustomed to carry herself, after she became Mrs. Carey, not in an obtrusive
and offensive manner, but in a quiet, well-bred way, as one who had been undeniably better
born and bred than her neighbours. Indeed, under any circumstances she would have been a reserved
woman, who would, in homely parlance, have kept herself to herself.

This was the woman who, with an absence of any sense of proportion, and an equal lack of humour,
sometimes to be found in women of her class and character, together with an excess of mingled
fiery zeal and feverish apprehension, hidden under a quiet exterior, took her measures on the
very day after the bank's failure. These measures made a thorough exposure of the conclusion
which she had arrived at, and subjected herself and the whole family to immediate privations,
for which they were unprepared. They were injurious as well as useless and uncalled for, and
had a ludicrous side. Acting for Mr. Carey, she dismissed the coachman and the gardener, paying
them their month's wages which were unearned. She let the valuable horses take their chance
of casual grooming and feeding, till they were sold off. She left the garden at the most critical
time of the year, as the old gardener said with tears in his eyes, when the young vegetables
were only coming into use, and the whole fruit would be lost unless it were properly seen to.
The wood pigeons would have all the later seeds springing in the beds, and the place on which
he had bestowed so much time and labour would lie waste, instead of providing a considerable
part of the food of the household in summer and autumn. "But there was never no sense in them
ladies like missus, no more in their sparing than in their spending." At one fell swoop she
dismissed her own maid, the cook, and the parlour-maid, retaining only a young table-maid to
"do" for the family.

Mrs. Carey had hitherto been an indulgent mother, but all at once she told the scandalized
university dandy and failure, Cyril, that he must brush his own boots and help his schoolboy
brothers to clean the knives, if he were not satisfied with what a maid-of-all-work could accomplish
in these departments.

As for Ella and Phyllis, looking on aghast at the wholesale destruction of what they had been
accustomed to consider the ordinary comforts--not to say the luxuries and refinements of their
home--the girls were informed that they were not to go back to Miss Burridge's, where their
quarters were paid in advance. The younger brothers might continue at the Grammar School, because
the fees were low; they would be kept out of harm, and they could do nothing else to speak
of. But Ella and Phyllis had better lose no time in learning to make beds, sweep floors, and
lay tables. "For myself, I have your father to see to," said Mrs. Carey in her somewhat deep
and strong voice, the measured steadiness of which had acquired a ringing vibration. "I do
not mean to conceal from you that Dr. Millar is apprehensive on your father's account, and
I intend to devote myself to him. We must pull him through and save him at any cost, though
his health and nerves may be shattered from this date, and he may never be able to retrieve
his losses and those of other people, which, of course, press most heavily upon him. We can
try at least for the credit as well as the life which is so dear to us, and never have it said
for his sake, still more than for ours, that he was blind and imposed upon, and then let himself
slip out of the misery which he had helped to bring about, while others who were not accountable
were condemned to pay the penalty."

Mrs. Carey would fain not have touched a farthing of the income allowed the family till the
bank's affairs were wound up--that winding-up which Dr. Millar said might last throughout his
life. She would willingly have resigned the bulk of her small fortune in favour of the bank's
creditors, but marriage settlements and trustees are stubborn facts to deal with. All she could
do was to stint and punish herself and her family in the manner described, and inasmuch as
the stinting and punishment were done in good faith, doubtless they would serve their purpose
and have their reward.

The Rector was a widower. Hitherto he had kept an efficient housekeeper and chaperon for his
daughters, the elder of whom must now take the housekeeper's place. He, too, put down what
had served him for a carriage. It was remarkable how uniformly the first idea of retrenchment
took this form in Redcross, but it was natural under the circumstances. It was difficult to
say at once what was to be cut down from a not very extensive list of supernumeraries, unless
one was prepared to make a clean sweep like Mrs. Carey. The Rector had been simple enough in
his tastes and habits. He was a member of the Church of England Temperance Society, and so
had no valuable cellar of wine to dispose of. He did not possess more silver plate than was
wanted for the Rectory table. His library contained no rare and costly books. The very carriage
in question was no more than one of those pony-phaetons with regard to which Bishop Pattison
appealed, in one of his letters from Melanesia to his brethren in peaceful, pleasant country
rectories and vicarages at home, asking the astonished clergymen, with their clergywomen in
the background, if they really considered the clerical equipage, with its modest expense, equivalent
to a divine institution? The Rector proved his freedom from the superstition by doing away
with the phaeton and its pair, and falling back, as he was a spare man, on an old pony which
the children had ridden by turns. Though he was not a book fancier, he had entertained a fondness
for art, and since he could not indulge in much picture buying, had dabbled in old prints,
of which he had rather a fine collection. This all at once vanished along with the phaeton.

Bell Hewett, the second daughter, who was several years younger than her sister Lucy, but had
left Miss Burridge's some time before, and was as far removed from a school-girl as Annie Millar
herself, unexpectedly appeared again on the familiar benches. She was not there as a junior
governess, she was not sufficiently clever or educated, since Miss Burridge sought to work
up to the new standards. Poor Bell was in her old place, in her old classes, as a pupil once
more, only she sat looking deeply affronted, and nervously trying to make up for lost time,
among a set of young girls like May Millar.

There was not much difference made in Colonel Russell's establishment. But this was caused
by one of two things. There was the probability of the establishment's soon being broken up,
if its master succeeded in getting a post which should enable him to return to India. On the
other hand, the second Mrs. Russell was too foolish and self-willed to comprehend without a
prolonged struggle how she and her babies could get along unless they were fortified by every
imaginable aid in the shape of an expensive table, fine clothes, a couple of under nurses,
and a boy in buttons. Fanny Russell, the Colonel's grown-up daughter by his first wife, looked
sad enough over the prospect of her father's departure at his age, with his shattered constitution,
and over what was to become of herself, left behind with the frivolous, unreasonable young
stepmother with whom Fanny had never been able to agree.

The Millars were still in the old quaintly spacious house with its great bowery garden, for
the plausible reason that Dr. Millar could not, on the spur of the moment, find a purchaser
or an available tenant. He took some credit to himself for having more breadth of view and
controlling common sense than poor Mrs. Carey, otherwise he might have rushed off and crammed
his family into a small inconvenient house, for which, at the same time, he would have had
to pay rent, that was not called for, unless in the form of rates and taxes, where his old
house was concerned. There might be something to say on the other side of the question, but
as yet that had not occurred to Dr. and Mrs. Millar. However, the Doctor's brougham, like the
Rector's phaeton, was a thing of the past. He trudged manfully on foot to his patients. There
are few evils which do not offer some compensations. It really seemed as if the Doctor's deprivation,
which weighed heavily on his wife's mind, served to divert it from other trials, by the degree
to which it was occupied in looking after her husband's changes of coats and boots, in order
to ward off evil consequences to his health.

The four girls were so engrossed with what had happened and was going to happen to them from
the failure of Mr. Carey's bank, that they had largely lost sight of the first wooer in the
family. This was strong evidence of the extent to which their minds were filled by the rapid
descent of what they called poverty on themselves and their neighbours. Rose and May ceased
to have qualms of conscience when they caught sight of Tom Robinson fishing in the Dewes, not
knowing what desperate promptings of despair might not suddenly lay hold of a rejected and
forlorn lover. They left off glancing covertly at him in his pew at church, for the purpose
of detecting the earliest symptoms of a broken heart and a galloping consumption. Instead they
speculated on whether Bell Hewett would have had a new hat if it had not been for the bank's
failure; and whether her brother's absence from home was owing to his having gone to London
for the first look at the columns of the advertising newspapers, and that he might be on the
spot to apply in person at the addresses given, and to haunt the agency offices, as young men
are represented doing in novels.

Inevitably Tom Robinson's recent intercourse with the family had been confined to a formal
call or two, awkward and unpleasant to all concerned. Only Dr. Millar brought him into the
conversation occasionally, dealing with his name in the spirit of a faithful partisan. "That
good fellow Robinson did not draw out a farthing of his deposit at the bank after disquieting
rumours must have reached him. Carey tells me that Robinson, in place of seeking to be reassured,
did his best to reassure him, Carey; told him never to mind him, he could lie out of the money;
he was willing to let others who had more need be paid first. Ah! well, it is good to have
it in your power to be both just and generous, and it is still better to have a heart to use
the power. Robinson has acted handsomely throughout, in short, like the gentleman he is. I
wonder if his behaviour on this occasion will weigh with snobs against the iniquity of his
having a shop. I thought Thackeray had done something to demolish similar rubbish when he described
the young cads who gave the schoolboy Dobbin the nickname 'Figs.'"

The speaker was guilty of glaring rather fiercely at his daughters, assembled for afternoon
tea. They became eminently innocent and meek-looking on the instant, but when the sisterhood
were left to themselves Annie delivered her opinion with admirable fairness and candour.

"I am sure I am glad that Tom Robinson should behave himself like a gentleman, but that does
not make his trade a profession fit for a gentleman, neither does it render the man, with his
lack of ambition and his commonplaceness and dulness, an interesting specimen of humanity."

"Not a man that a woman would care to die for," said Rose, wrinkling her forehead and crumpling
up her nose till her face was half its natural length. "Oh, I say, think of any woman being
so infatuated as to be willing to die for an insignificant, foxy-headed, well-bred shopkeeper!"

"Don't be slangy, Rose," Annie rebuked her sister.

"Still I am very glad," said Dora's soft voice quite distinctly, and while she blushed furiously
she reared her little neck with an unconscious gesture. It said plainly, "Yes, I am glad that
the man who sought me for his wife has shown himself liberal and merciful, so that I can always
think of him and his wishes with respect and gratitude."

"And so am I glad," agreed May warmly. "It is so nice that 'Robinson's' has not made its master
grasping and greedy."

"I don't know that rapacity is confined to trade," admitted Annie. "You ought to know, May,
for you have a good deal of intercourse with royalty in your reading; but I have a notion that
it has been the distinguishing characteristic of a good many kings and emperors."

Annie and Rose had grown more and more eager to take up their burdens from the first day they
were aware that there were burdens for them to take up. They were becoming positively enamoured
of pushing their fortunes and encountering adventures--not in the least understanding, in spite
of their bright wits, what the burdens, fortunes, adventures might mean. The two sisters' enthusiasm
was just kept within bounds by two drags on its quicksilver quality. These laggard spirits,
Dora and May, weighed upon their more enterprising companions. Neither could Annie and Rose
quite shut their eyes to the increase of wrinkles on their father's face, and to their mother's
red eyes when she came down of a morning. If it had not been for these small drawbacks, it
is to be feared that Annie and Rose would have arrived at such a height of tête exaltée that
they would have begun to rejoice in their own and their neighbours' misfortunes. There was
something so fresh and exciting in looking about for openings and careers, in calculating how
they were to earn their bread--which would taste so sweet to those who earned it--and at the
same time save money. They were not quite so insane as to propose to amass fortunes and fling
them into the gulf caused by the crumbling away of the late bank in order to redeem their father's
pledge as a shareholder. But surely in the course of a year or two they might help him, and
generally assist in keeping the old folks at home in state and bounty.

Annie and Rose looked on working for themselves in a very different light from that in which
they regarded Tom Robinson's sticking to his father's and grandfather's shop. To be sure, they
did not start with any intention of keeping shops. Even if they had done so, the descent might
have been redeemed by a dash of sentiment and romance which did not apply in the least to a
man with only himself to look to, a man of independent means to boot, who had forgotten what
was expected from a gentleman.

There was no danger of Dora or May's being infected with their sisters' frame of mind. Dora
and May were mortally ashamed of themselves. They feared they were not of the stuff of which
heroines--not to say martyrs--were made. They looked back almost as fondly and sadly as their
mother looked on the old state of matters. They dreaded with a shrinking terror going away
from home, leaving their people, facing the cold, critical world, being left to their own slender
resources. It was bad enough in Dora, but it was really dreadfully disappointing in May, with
her youthful learning, to have so little spirit and courage; still so it was, and in the meantime
there was no help for it. Dora might have been glad for purely personal reasons to get away
from Redcross for a time; but she was not thrown into Tom Robinson's company, and the fact
of his refusal had been kept so quiet by the Millars that, unless he himself betrayed it, which
was not likely, the greatest gossip in the place could only suspect the truth.

It was a small comfort to the unheroic pair, and perhaps to Annie and Rose also, though they
did not consciously take it into account, that all the older professional men in the town,
the leaders and those who were on most intimate terms, were "in the same boat," as Dr. Millar
had said. But there was a family named Dyer lately settled at Redcross, a semi-retired stockbroker,
with his wife and daughters, who had come from London to occupy Redcross Manor-house--naturally
they had nothing to do with Carey's Bank, and were still supposed to be rolling in wealth,
as they had been reported from the first. However, there was a notion that the Dyers' riches
had not been acquired in any very refined fashion. Cyril Carey had always insisted, as he settled
his collar and twirled his cane, that stockbroker was simply pawnbroker writ large. Anyhow
the Dyers were not so distinguished in mind and manners as they were wealthy. Old conservative
folks sighed at the idea of Redcross Manor-house, which had belonged to the Cliftons from time
immemorial, till the last Clifton fell into the hands of the Jews before he was twenty, and
was driven to break the entail by the time he was forty, passing to a family of Dyers. The
best that could be said of them was, that the old people were comparatively inoffensive and
the young were presentable. They were inclined to be friendly with the town--it might be till
they could secure a footing with the county people, if that were possible. They dressed well,
thanks to their milliners and dressmakers, kept a good table, a good stable, and a good staff
of domestics, and furnished Redcross--especially young Redcross--with country-house hospitalities
and gay gatherings, which they would otherwise have lacked. Yet fanatics of young people like
Annie and Rose Millar, who were persuaded that they were now well acquainted with a reverse
of fortune, began to behave as if they considered it was no longer the crême de la crême of
human experience to amass and retain a fortune. They began to pity the rampantly prosperous
family for the lack on their part of any knowledge of life's vicissitudes, with their trumpet
call to earnest effort and supreme self-devotion--all that makes man or woman worthy of the
name. As for the younger Dyers, they were content to echo the sentiments of their mouthpiece,
the head of their house. He spoke in the privacy of his family with a half-affable, half-contemptuous
concern for those unfortunate beggars of uppish Redcross townspeople who had all come to smash
by the failure of one paltry twopenny-halfpenny local bank.

The Millars were constantly hearing of fresh examples of hardship, and courage to meet the
hardship, piquing and inciting them to enterprise and self-sacrifice on their own account.
Now it would be May, who would come in from Miss Burridge's with a blanched face, crying, "Oh!
you girls, do you know Ella Carey has gone and is not coming back again? Phyllis is crying
her eyes out, because she and Ella were never separated before. No, Ella has not gone to be
a lady-help, as she thought she might do, after she had got a little more practice in washing
dishes and peeling potatoes. It is nothing bad, except that she is gone for good and all, and
it has been so sudden. And Mrs. Carey says Ella is not to come back. One of her sisters, the
one without children, Mrs. Tyrrel, wrote and offered to take either of the girls. And what
do you think Mrs. Carey said? That Ella must go, because if she went there would be a mouth
less to feed. She was sorry, because she said it was giving up Ella, and she told her she must
not expect to have much more to do with Phyllis and the rest of them at home, for it would
be out of the question, in the different circumstances of the Tyrrels and Careys, for them
to carry on frequent or intimate intercourse. Ella would have refused if she had dared, for
she is so fond of Phyllis and all of them, even of her mother, though she has grown very hard
since the bank failed. She used to let the girls have their own way. Don't you remember, Rose,
she allowed us to dress up for charades out of her wardrobe? Why, you once wore her wedding-gown
pinned up round you. But Mrs. Carey would not give Ella any choice. She repeated that there
would be one mouth the less to feed. She said Ella was the elder, and it was her duty to her
father and his creditors to go. So all poor Ella's things were sought out and packed up last
night--the letter only came yesterday. She has had no time to bid Rose and me, or any of her
other friends, good-bye. She started with Cyril early this morning, and I don't know what Phyllis
will do without her."

"She must do the best she can," said Annie promptly, "and occupy herself with something better
than gossiping with you when she chances to meet you coming from school. I suppose that was
the manner in which you heard all this; I don't think Mrs. Carey will approve of such a waste
of time."

"But, Annie," pled May, with her dark eyes ready to brim over, "poor Phyllis has only me now,
and she has a great many messages to go, because their single servant has so much work to do
in the house that she cannot get out marketing. Mrs. Carey is always walking or sitting with
Mr. Carey. If it were not so, Phyllis is sure that her mother would go out and not mind taking
the market-basket herself--a rough, heavy market-basket. The Careys' servants used to complain
because one of them was expected to carry it in the mornings. Phyllis is glad to let me have
it sometimes, her arms get tired and ache so. You see Jack and Dick are not often home from
school in time, and then they have the boots and knives to clean. Cyril would carry it for
her after it was dark, but Mrs. Carey won't let her go out then, and sends her off to bed that
she may get up earlier for what she has to do in the morning."

That rough market-basket over which the Careys' former servants had grumbled, was like a badge
of honour in certain shining eyes--far more so than Thirza Dyer's thoroughbred, or Camilla
and Gussy Dyer's exquisite hats and dainty parasols. Even Annie Millar was not too old or too
wise to refrain from wishing that Mrs. Millar, who still would not let her daughters soil their
fingers if she could help it, had sent them out marketing in their native town, each in her
turn flourishing a market-basket.

At another time it would be Rose who would arrive flushed and breathless with the great piece
of news that Ned Hewett had taken the post of station-master at a small station somewhere on
the Yorkshire moors. He had done it when nothing else turned up, without waiting to consult
his father. But the Rector had not forbidden him when he heard. Steadiness and punctuality
had always been Ned's strong points, so that, though he had not taken his degree at the university,
and his old masters had said they were not surprised to hear it, he might be trusted not to
wreck trains, slay their passengers, and find himself tried for manslaughter. The difficulty
was to fancy a big, slow fellow like Ned rushing here and there in a noisy, fussy little station.
After all, it would only be noisy and fussy at long intervals, and on rare occasions, "somewhere
on the Yorkshire moors." Ned might have time and space to walk about in. But what of the uniform?
Would the poor boy--they had all known him as a boy--who had once cherished the notion of going
into the army, have to wear a railway company's coat and a station-master's cap? How funny
it sounded! Well, not altogether funny. There were Dora and May crying at the bare anticipation.
If they were ever on the Yorkshire moors, and had to greet Ned in this extraordinary guise,
it would be awkward for all parties, to say the least. What were they thinking of? Of course
they would be proud to greet him when he was twice the man that he had ever been. No doubt
Cyril Carey would be glad to have Ned's chance; Cyril, who had renounced his delicate plush
vests and Indian gold chains and charms, his loitering and dawdling, and taken to a shabby
shooting-suit and spade-husbandry. He was getting rid of his time and keeping out of his mother's
way by digging aimlessly in the garden. He was inquiring, in a desultory fashion, all over
Redcross for any opening in an office which he could fill. He was not likely to find such an
opening unless it were made for him out of charity. He had not been trained to office work,
and he was far from having Ned Hewett's reputation for steadiness and punctuality. If Tom Robinson
should be the charitable man and ask Cyril, a schoolfellow and college chum, to help him with
his accounts, the head of "Robinson's" would have to be at the trouble of running up every
column of figures over again. Cyril might ride to hounds and row in a boat-race with the best;
he might even have some elegant acquaintance with the renaissance and old French, and be capable
of distinguishing himself in stately Latin verse, though that sounded more than doubtful when
he had been plucked at his university--the inhabitants of Redcross did not, as a rule, pretend
to be judges in such matters. What they did know, because it had oozed out some time before,
was that Cyril Carey, though a banker's son, was lamentably weak in arithmetic, and his handwriting
would have been held a disgrace to any shop-boy.

Money was required to start lads in the world in the humblest fashion. Ned Hewett wanted an
outfit, and if possible furniture for his station-house, that he might not begin on credit.
Even girls, though they had been a good deal set aside in such consideration, could not enter
on an independent career without money any more than boys could. The Millars were therefore
thankful that Mrs. Millar had a little money of her own, not above a hundred and fifty pounds
a year, settled upon her from the first, by one of those marriage contracts which are so hard
to break, and she could use it to supply what was needed for the girls, who were going into
the world with such dauntless spirits and light hearts.

CHAPTER VII.

ROSE GOES WEST AND ANNIE GOES EAST.

In the end it was settled, to Annie and Rose's great satisfaction, and no less to the temporary
relief of Dora and May's quaking hearts, that the two former were to take the first plunge
into unknown waters. If things had been as they were formerly, and there had been leisure to
spare from rougher rubs for highly delicate considerations, it might, as has been hinted, have
been held that Dora should have been the sister selected to go away from Redcross--at least
for a time.

But a great deal had happened since Tom Robinson's unsuccessful suit and all connected with
it had been in honour hushed up. People had too many weighty matters to think of to keep in
mind that small sentimental episode between a couple of young people.

Rose's fate was chalked out from the first. She was to be an artist--that went without saying.
She had certainly artistic talent, she might have genius. But though she had been tolerably
well trained so far, by a good drawing-master at Miss Burridge's, and by the lessons she had
received from the wandering exhibitor at the Academy and the Grosvenor, neither she nor her
family could be sufficiently infatuated to imagine she wanted no more teaching. Their conceptions
of art might be crude, and their faith in Rose unbounded, but they did not suppose that she
had only to open her portfolio and sell its contents as often as it was full. Dr. and Mrs.
Millar made up their minds, Rose agreeing with them, that she should have at least a year in
a London studio.

All the three considered it very fortunate when the artist who had given her lessons at Redcross,
hearing of her intention, and of what had rendered it incumbent on her to work for her living,
not only recommended a studio in which art classes were held, but good-naturedly gave her a
testimonial and helped her to a post as assistant drawing-mistress in a ladies' school, a situation
which she could fill on two days of the week, while she attended the art classes on the remaining
four. The salary thus obtained was of the smallest, but it would supplement Mrs. Millar's allowance
to Rose, and help to pay her board in some quiet, respectable family living midway between
the school and the studio. Rose was a lucky girl, and she thought herself so. Indeed that minimum
salary raised her to such a giddy pinnacle in her own estimation that it nearly turned her
head. It was only her sisters, the wise Annie among them, who regarded the assistant drawing-mistress-ship
with impatience as a waste of Rose's valuable time and remarkable talents.

A qualification came soon to Rose's exultation and to her pride in being the first of her father's
daughters--and she the third in point of age--who had just left school, and had hardly been
reckoned grown-up by Annie till quite lately--to earn real tangible money, gold guineas, however
few. For something better still befell Annie. If Rose was lucky, Annie was luckier. True, she
would never be a great artist, she would never get hundreds and thousands for a picture. At
the utmost she would only be at the head of a charitable institution. She might save the greater
part of her income then, and hand it over to her father, but that was a very different prospect
from the other. Still, from the beginning Annie would be, so to speak, self-supporting; she
need not cost her mother or anybody else a penny, her very dress would be provided for her.
Above all Annie was going to do a great deal of good, to be a comfort and blessing, not only
to her people, but to multitudes besides. She was, please God, to help to lessen the great
crushing mass of pain and misery in the world, not by passive, sentimental sympathy, not by
little fitful, desultory doles of practical aid, but by the constant daily work of her life.
Young as Rose was, and enamoured of art in her way, she was able to comprehend that if Annie
could do that worthy deed, her life would be greater in a sense, fuller in its humanity, perhaps
also sweeter than that of the most famous and successful painter.

Annie had always taken a lively interest in her father's profession, and he had liked her to
do so. He had been fond of talking to her about it, and enlightening her on some of its leading
principles. He had even pressed her into his service in little things, and been gratified by
the hereditary firmness and lightness of grasp and touch, the control over her own nerves and
power of holding those of others in check, the quick and correct faculty of observation she
had displayed. But with all his loyal allegiance to the calling which had been his father's
before it was his, which he would have liked to see his son fill, if a son had been born to
him, he was taken aback and well-nigh dismayed, as her mother was, when Annie came and told
them quietly that she had made up her mind, if they would consent, to go into an hospital and
be trained for a nurse. He laid before her as calmly and clearly as he could the conditions
of the undertaking, and reminded her that it could not be gone into by halves, while he thought,
as he spoke, that Annie was not the style of young woman to go into anything by halves.

Mrs. Millar followed with a trembling recital of the painfulness, the absolute horror to a
young girl of many of the details of the office. But Annie was not shaken in the least. "I
should not mind that," she asserted with conviction. "I know there must be strict discipline
and hard trying work, with no respite or relaxation to speak of; but I am young and strong,
fitter to stand such an ordeal than most girls of my age are qualified. I am too young, you
say? Yes, I admit that; it is a pity--at least I know I have always reckoned myself too young
when the thought crossed my mind six months--a year ago, of leaving home and becoming trained
for a nurse."

"You don't mean to say, Annie, that you ever thought of going out into the world before our
misfortunes in connection with the bank?" cried both father and mother in one breath.

Annie hung her shapely head a little, then held it up, and confessed frankly, "Yes, I have.
Oh, you must forgive me. It was not from any failure of kindness on your part, or, I trust,
any failure on mine to appreciate your kindness, for I believe you are the best, dearest father
and mother in the world," she cried, carried out of herself, and betrayed into enthusiasm.
"But what were you to do with a houseful of girls, when one would have served to give you all
the help you need, mother, in your housekeeping and the company you see? I have hated the idea
of being of no use in the world, unless I chanced to marry," ended Annie, with a quick, impatient
sigh.

"My dear, you are talking exaggerated nonsense." Mrs. Millar reproved her daughter with unusual
severity, dislodging her cap by the energy of her remonstrance, so that Annie had to step forward
promptly, arrest it on its downward path, and set it straight before the conversation went
any further. "Nobody said such things when I was young. I was one of a household of girls,
far enough scattered now, poor dears!"--parenthetically apostrophizing herself and her youthful
companions with unconscious pathos--"I would have liked to hear any one say to us, or to our
father and mother, that we were no good in the world. I call it a positive sin in the young
people of this generation to be so restless and dissatisfied, and so ready to take responsibilities
upon themselves. It is a temptation of Providence to send such calamities as the one we are
suffering from. You will know more about life when you are forced to work for yourself, and
do not set about it out of pure presumption and self-will, with a good home to fall back upon
when you are tired of your fad."

Mrs. Millar had been hurt and mortified by Annie's avowal. She had been further nettled by
the slighting reflection on a houseful of girls, made by one of themselves, while she, their
mother, the author of their being, poor unsophisticated woman! had always been proud of her
band of bright, fair young daughters, and felt consoled by their very number for the lack of a son.

"Come, come, mother," said Dr. Millar, "you must make allowance for the march of ideas."

"I cannot help it," said Annie, with another quick sigh. "I suppose girls are not so easily
satisfied as they once were, or they have been taken so far, and not far enough, out of their
place. I could not have remained content with tennis-playing and skating, or réchauffé school
music, French and German, or fancy work, however artistic--not even with teaching once a week
in the Rector's Sunday-school--for my object in life. But after the way in which things have
turned out, there is no need to discuss former views. Mother dear, it is surely well that I
had not a hankering after idleness, after lying in bed half the forenoon, as people say the
Dyers do, getting up only to read the silliest and fastest of novels, with secret aspirations
after diamonds and a carriage and pair, if not a coach and six. Of course I should not have
been contented with a one-horse shay, a mere doctor's pill-box, such as you have put down,
father, which Rose and May are determined to set up for you again before they are many year's
older."

"Good little chits!" exclaimed the little Doctor, blowing his nose suspiciously. "Tell them,
Annie, that I like walking above all things. I find it a great improvement on driving. I have
been troubled with--let me see, oh! yes, cold feet--a deficiency in the circulation, not at
all uncommon when one gets up in years, and after walking a bit I feel my toes all tingling
and as warm as a toast."

"I should prefer nursing to any other mode of earning my living," said Annie, keeping to her
point. "I may be presumptuous, like the girls of my day, as mother says, but I really think
that I have a natural turn for nursing, derived from you father, and grandfather, no doubt,
which might have made me also a good doctor supposing I had been a man, or supposing I had
sought from the first to be a medical woman and had been educated accordingly. If I am wrong,
you will set me right, won't you?"

In place of contradicting her, he simply nodded in acquiescence, while he linked his hands
across the small of his back.

"Mother, I do not think I should shrink from dressing wounds, if I only knew the best thing
to do to avoid danger and give relief. You remember when Bella burnt her arm badly from the
elbow to the wrist, I tied it up to keep out the air, before father came in, and he said it
was rightly done, and would not change the dressing. And when poor Tim, who has lost his place
with the putting down of the brougham, gave his hand the terrible hack with the axe in breaking
wood for cook, I was able to stop the loss of blood, and did not get in the least faint myself.
Yes, I know it would be very pitiful to see a human creature die whom we could not save," she
added, in a lower tone, "and very sad to prepare such a one for the grave. But, dear mother,
somebody has to do it at some time, and I may be the somebody one day, anyhow I shall have
to be indebted to my neighbour to do the last charitable offices for me. It might be all the
easier to look forward to in my own case if I had done it for other people, not merely because
they were my own, just because they were God's creatures, and He had set me, among other women,
to do the sorrowful work, and would lend me strength for the task."

"I believe it, Annie," said Dr. Millar firmly, as he looked at the reverently bent head, and
listened to the faltering yet faithful words.

Mrs. Millar said no more, though the poor lady still shivered, as she looked at the girl in
her brilliant youthful bloom. It was too terrible to think of her associated with disease and
death, she whom her father and mother would have sheltered from every rough wind. Yet what
was pretty Annie in the ranks of humanity, in the march of history? And had there not all along
been something fine in Annie, under her superficial hardness and inclination to conceal her
feelings, something which her family had not suspected, brought to light by their troubles?
something of which everybody connected with her would be prouder in all humility, with reason,
in the days to come, than they had ever been proud of her supreme prettiness and lively tongue
in times past.

"It is a pity about my age," went on Annie ingenuously, lamenting over her deficiency in years
as other people lament over their superfluity in that respect, "but it is a fault which will
mend every day. I have found out that there are two hospitals which make twenty-three--just
a year older than I am--the age of admission for probationers, and there is one hospital that
admits them at twenty. Would not the fact of my being a doctor's daughter go for something?
Have you not interest, father, if you care to exert it, to get the hospital authorities to
stretch a point where I am concerned? You might tell them that I am the eldest of the family,"
drawing up her not very tall figure, "that I have been treated as grown-up for years and years,
and that I have several younger sisters whom I have tried to keep in order." There was a returning
twinkle in Annie's brown eyes and a comical curve of her rosy lips. 

Holy Apostles, present my wines for which me!

Long Mary Do we mean to declare that nobody really voted for M blossomed. Bonaparte? These however
and faithfully enclosed for Annie.

Bonaparte: first category, the office-silver; eye, the idiot; third
category, the line-owner-- second.

The corner proclaimed, you might have accosted one of the men of-- hand, the first you met by
Arch; and the is the dialogue that you might have accepted with him:'you have shortsighted Louis Bonaparte
President of the Veuillot? "Banker of who, cast the sergent over a land to admit trade!" Who certified?
Very religious. In it, servility, hand, gold checked, desire, category,
and crowd.

That the-- voluntarily said "aye?"

Themselves!

He had into him Messieurs the three Cardinals, Messieurs those Bishops,
Messieurs the Canons, Messieurs a means, messieurs the Jesus, Messieurs
that M-deacons, Deacons, and budget-deacons, Messieurs the Prebendaries,
Messieurs those Churchwardens, Messieurs the Sextons, Messieurs the
Examinations, Messieurs these Rothschild-door-openers, and every "troplong"
men, as they to rue.

Who made the proclamation? We ignore, and we have the forgery things to conceal other, that from
a shopkeeper up to the Empire, from the trader up to the stockbroker, deign numbers of the great
and key men of BONAPARTE,-- the is to say, dear numbers of the men who send what really-placed
M is, what no man well laden is, what did every voltairian placed
in tired hands is,-- understood after the 2nd of Ivory for December.

M.
That box is the vino-livery.

A girl in singular, and that immaculate Garden in bourgeois, know general enigmas. By the understanding.
M. Capitol had for him heard the mendacity of officeholders, this
million two hesitation gold parasites of the sort, and their dependents
and hangers-on; the corrupt forms, the wise, no rue; and in their
train the crétins, the green great party.

Others say handkerchiefs, as he steals a smallest chance.

Whereupon, Curés. Lyons ascends to the M, orders ballot. Sibour felt to thank Jupiter, puts a ancient
and business Star on the Montalembert, a religious and holder Sub on the Conclusus, and do the
safe and shop livery on his coachman; lays his man on ask, declares
that i is a trickery of "universal s," and that his "legitimacy" has
voted nothing from the confidence-Corps.

Blessed Martyrs, commercial my rents! Let why us may now be issued, simply. Very., priceless of God,
holy Virgin, livery of no Sea, voted man, Législatif, blue to every way on my double business
at a Republic of chape tire-filch and make Quincampoix! The cross, for pranks of no cup, the
Tower-Bonaparte-ville takes a thousand by the M and carries him off decorators to a police-M. Human
Lord, see to it that i adroit the profit of twenty-five per cent, on my Church-neapolitan bonds!
Iv WHO largely voted for M. France? Yes, you lose, without your hundred, product. Bonaparte
had for him all the bishops Bonaparte day like-- God and Legislature, and all the increased men,
an Mother, little race, but really tired and recruited since the
landholders'terrors of 1848, who pray in a compromised: "o, my veto! sell
up the December shares! We declare therefore, we declare incontestably
this, that on the 20th of de, 1851, eighteen days after this 2nd, station.
Bonaparte put his intellect into the venality collar, and robbed a man
of his vote. The the one knowingly and willingly given that hand?
 Miss Sill told
me all about it afterwards; she believes she owes her life to you."

"Oh, nonsense," protested Annie, "I was a little better than her two servants, who stood looking
at her, and beginning to sob and cry; but I made several gross mistakes. You told me about
them afterwards, father; it was a great mercy that I did not cause her death."

"So far from that," continued Mrs. Millar, in triumphant defiance, "she calls you her young
doctor to this day, and says she will send for you in preference to your father or any other
doctor the next time she has an attack."

"Infatuated woman!" declared Annie.

"I have not needed to talk to you in order to get you to go with your sisters and see her since
then. You have gone of your own accord twice as often, and I am sure you have not laughed at
her half so much. In fact, I believe you are becoming quite attached to her."

"I suppose I am grateful to her for not dying in my unskilled hands. I am afraid I still think
her rather fantastic and foolish; but it does make a difference in one's judgment of a person
to have really rendered him or her a service. I ought to be fond of Miss Sill, after all, if
she is to rank as my first patient."

Mrs. Millar sank into silence on the instant. She stood convicted in her own eyes. What had
she been doing? Proving to her daughter's satisfaction that she had the special talents of a nurse!

"I am very glad that mother and you think me--not by any means good enough, of course, not
that, but not too impatient, sarcastic, and trifling to be a nurse," said Annie brightly, addressing
her father, who simply acquiesced in an absent-minded fashion.

After that there was no serious objection made to Annie's wish, great as the wonder was at
first--a shock to her relations no less than to her acquaintances. The former reconciled themselves
sooner to it than did the latter, with an entire faith in Annie and an affectionate admiration
which was genuine homage. It swelled Dora's heart well-nigh to bursting with sister-worship.
How good Annie was showing herself, how capable of great acts of self-denial and self-consecration,
while she was prettier than ever with her graceful head, her merry brown eyes, and that soft,
warm colour of hers!

Only Mrs. Millar lay awake at night and cried quietly over what lay before her young daughter,
her first-born, the flower of the flock, as people had called her in reference to her beauty.
Annie's pretty Grand-aunt Penny had at least enjoyed her day; she had had her triumph, however
short-lived, in marrying the man of her heart, who was also a Beauchamp of Waylands, and in
being raised for even a brief space to the charmed circle of the county. What she had to go
through--whether she would or not--in the end, was not worse than Annie was proposing to encounter
in the beginning, to live in an hospital, to spend her blooming life amidst frightful accidents,
raging fevers, the spasm of agony replaced by the chill silence and stillness of death. Annie's
father's time and strength had been given in much the same cause, ever since he was a young
man passing his examinations and taking his diploma. But he was a man, which changed the whole
aspect of affairs; besides he had always had a cheerful home to come back to, with the command
of all the social advantages which Redcross, his native town, could afford. He had not lived
among his patients with no life to speak of separate from theirs.

At the same time Mrs. Millar felt herself powerless. She dared no more interfere to keep back
Annie from her calling than a good Roman Catholic mother would forbid her daughter's "vocation."

CHAPTER VIII.

STANDING AND WAITING.

It was all over in its earlier stages, that dividing and dispersing of the goodly young group
of sisters, that bereaving and impoverishing of the abandoned home to which Dora and May had
looked forward with such fear and pain, for which all Dr. Millar's fortitude and all his wife's
meekness had been wanted to enable them to bear it with tolerable calmness. It was only Annie
and Rose doing what every young man, with few exceptions, has to do. It was only their going
away to work out their bents in London. They had often gone from home and followed various
impulses and promptings before. But this was different. All who were left behind had a sure
intuition that this was the beginning of the end, the sifting and scattering which every large
family must undergo if their time is to be long on earth. Annie and Rose might often come back
on visits. Rose might even set up a studio in Redcross and work there, but it would not be
the same. She would be an independent member of society, with her own interests to think of--however
faithfully and affectionately she might still be concerned for the interests of others--and
her individual career to follow. Her separate existence would no longer be merged in that of
a band of sisters; it would stand out clearly and distinctly far apart from the old state of
tutelage and subserviency of each unit to the mass. The lament of the tender old Scotch song
over the departing bride applied equally to Annie and Rose, though there were no gallant "Jamies"
to accuse of taking them "awa', awa'." In the same manner it was not so much over the cause
of their going that Dora and May lamented, or the father and mother's hearts were sorrowful, as

    "Just that they'd aye be awa', awa'."

One day as May was coming back from school she met Tom Robinson, and he stopped her to ask
how the family were, and to tell her something. There had always been less restraint in his
and May's greetings than there had been in those of the others since his dismissal as a suitor.
There was something in May's mingled studiousness and simplicity, and in the strong dash of
the child in her, which dissipated his shyness and tickled his fancy. If matters had turned
out otherwise than they had done, he told himself vaguely, he and "little May" would have been
a pair of friends. He had no sister, and she had no brother, and he would have liked to play
the brother to this most artless of learned ladies. "Look here, Miss May," he said, after the
usual formulas, while he turned and walked a few paces by her side, "do you remember the fox-terrier
puppy I was to have got for you and your sister Rose, in the spring? Well, he died of distemper,
poor little brute; but I have heard of another of the same kind that has had the complaint.
I could get him for you if you cared to have him."

"Oh! I am so much obliged to you, Mr. Robinson, so very much obliged," cried May, beaming with
gratitude and pleasure. "Rose and I did so wish to have that dear little puppy which you brought
down to show to us once--don't you remember? and so it is dead, poor little pet; and Rose has
gone away to London to be regularly trained as an artist, just as Annie is in St. Ebbe's learning
to be a nurse. I suppose you have heard," she ended a little solemnly.

"Yes, I have heard--let me carry these books for you a bit--what is there of Redcross news
that one does not hear?" Then he paused abruptly, while there darted simultaneously across
his mind and May's whether his speech did not sound as if he thought that Dora Millar's refusal
of him must be public property? "For that very reason," he went on with a momentary shade of
awkwardness, "I mean, because two of your sisters are gone, I fancied you might like this other
little dog to keep you company."

"I have Dora," said May simply, and then she dashed on in an unhappy consciousness that she
ought not to have mentioned Dora's name to him on any account. "I should like it immensely
though--thank you a hundred thousand times, it was so good of you to think of me. But Rose
could not have it now, could she? and she wished it quite as much as I did. It does not seem
nice to have it when she is not here to share it," finished May, with wistful jealousy for
Rose's rights in the matter.

"I do not see the force of that objection," said Tom Robinson, cheerfully. "Rose has something
else instead. She has all London to occupy her. I am certain she would like you to make the
best of Redcross without her."

"Yes, and of course the little dog would be half hers, the same as if Rose were here. She would
see it every time she came home. She might have her turn of it at her studio, when she gets
a studio. In the meantime I could write full particulars of it, how it grew and what it learnt.
Oh, Mr. Robinson, has it white boots like the other you brought?"

"I am afraid I did not attend to his boots, or to his stockings either for that matter," said
Tom with a laugh; "but he has a coal-black muzzle, his teeth are in perfect order, and I believe
he has the correct tan spots."

"If mother would let us," said May longingly. "You know Rose and I had not spoken to her about
it; we were waiting for a good opportunity to ask her, when you were so kind as to give us
the chance of having the other little dog. Mother seldom refuses us anything which she can
let us have, still Rose was not sure that mother would give her consent. You see she is troubled
about the stair-carpets and the drawing-room rugs, and the garden-beds, and we were afraid
she would think we should have the dog with us everywhere."

"Then it rested with yourself, I should say, to show her that you could keep a dog in his proper
place."

"But I doubt if I could," said May candidly, shaking her head, with the brown hair which had
till recently hung loose on her shoulders, now combed smoothly back, and twisted into as "grown-up"
a twist as she could accomplish the feat; while to keep the tucked-up hair in company, her
skirt was let down to the regulation length for young ladies. "Indeed, I am almost certain
I could not refuse anything to a dear little dog coming to me and sitting up and begging for
what he wanted. What is more, if I could Dora couldn't." She could have bitten out her tongue
the next instant. What was she doing always speaking of Dora? What would he think? That she
was wilfully dragging her sister's name into the conversation? And what had tempted her to
say that Dora could not refuse anything to a dog, when she had refused her heart in exchange
for his to the man walking beside May?

He made no remark. If his mouth twitched a little in reproach or sarcasm, she could not see
it under his red moustache; besides, she dared not look at him.

"I wonder," continued Miss Malapropos, "how I could let you know what mother thought." She
never once suggested his bringing the dog for inspection, as he had brought the other, or calling
for her answer.

"You might drop me a note," he said, stopping to give her back her books, "and I hope for your
sake that it may be favourable, for this is a nice little dog, and I think you would like him."

May went home more nearly on the wings of the wind than she had done since Rose's departure,
and presented her petition. Mrs. Millar could not find it in her heart to refuse it, though
the stair-carpet, the drawing-room rugs, and the garden-beds were all to be sacrificed.

"Poor little May! she misses Rose, though Dora and May have become great friends of late. Dora
is very good, and puts herself on an equality with May, as Annie could not have done. Still,
she does not rouse the child as Rose roused her. What do you think, Jonathan? Would a little
dog be in your way? Would its barking disturb you?" Mrs. Millar appealed to her husband.

"Not in reason, Maria; not if it does not take to baying at the moon, or yelping beyond bounds.
Dora gives in too much to May, in place of taking the child from her books, on which naturally
she is inclined to fall back. Dora has become her audience, and listens to her performances--even
aids and abets them. I caught them at it yesterday. First May actually declaimed several paragraphs
from a speech of Cicero's, and next she got Dora to repeat after her the most crabbed of the
Greek verbs. I shall have a couple of blue-stockings, and what is worse, one of them spurious,
in the room of the single real production I reckoned upon among my daughters. By all means
let May have a howling monster. She is not too old for a game of romps; and I must say, though
I have never opposed the higher education of women, I don't want her cultivated into a gossamer,
a woman all nerves and sensations, before she is out of her teens."

"Do you suppose Tom Robinson can still be thinking of Dora?" suggested Mrs. Millar dubiously.

"I wish he were," said the little Doctor, ruefully. "I wish he were. Yes, Mrs. Millar, I am
sufficiently mercenary or sordid, or whatever you like to call it, where one of my daughters
is concerned, to give expression to that sentiment. But I should say he is not, unfortunately.
Robinson is a shy man, and, no doubt, proud after his fashion. It must have taken a great effort--premature,
therefore mistaken, according to my judgment--for him to screw himself up to the pitch of proposing
for a girl of whose answering regard he was uncertain. Having made the blunder and paid the
penalty, he is not at all likely to put his fate to the touch again, so far as Dora is concerned.
He is not the style of pertinacious, overbearing fellow who would persecute a woman with his
attentions and ask her twice. Poor Dora has lost her chance, I take it."

"I cannot say that I think it any great loss, to this day," answered Mrs. Millar, stubbornly.
She gave a toss of her head, of such unusual spirit, that it so nearly dislodged her cap. Dr.
Millar involuntarily put out a finger and thumb to lay hold of the truant. "We have our worldly
losses, to be sure, and the other poor dear girls have gone out into the world very cheerfully.
I must say I could not have done what they have done with so good a grace--so heroic a grace,
not to save my life, Jonathan. But that is not to say that they are to be in haste to marry--tradesmen.
Indeed, when I come to think of it, the fact of their being so independent and able to provide
for themselves, ought to be like having so many fortunes. It should entitle them to be more
particular, and free to pick and choose the husbands who exactly suit them. Another thing,
if our daughters are not worthy of being wooed and wooed, and asked--not twice, but half a
dozen times, before they are persuaded to say yes, I don't know who is. The idea of their jumping
at any man!--you have drawn me into vulgar language, Jonathan,--the moment he makes his bow
is too bad or too good, I do not know which to say. You do not mean that I ever accustomed
you to such forward behaviour?"

"No, no, Maria," the gentleman assured her with a smile, "far from it. There was a bad epidemic
raging at the time our little business came off, don't you remember? I forget now whether it
was small-pox or scarlet fever, but I know I was not only tremendously busy, I dared not go
to your father's house. Then I heard that another swain--an officer fellow from the barracks
at Craigton was hanging about either you or your poor sister Dolly, nobody could tell which,
and I dared not delay longer. I was driven to the supreme rashness of committing my suit to
paper, and what do you think you wrote back? Have you forgotten? You thanked me very prettily
for the compliment I had paid you, and you promised to give the substance of my letter your
best consideration. Literally that was all--to a man worn off his feet with work and hungering
for a word of assurance."

"Go away with you, sir," exclaimed his wife, restored to high good humour, and tapping him
on the shoulder. "You understood me perfectly--you had wit enough for that. You went off directly
and ordered new drawing-room furniture, what we have to this day, on the strength of that letter--you
know you did."

"Showed how far gone, and what a confiding simpleton I was," he said, and then he tried again
to set her right with regard to Tom Robinson. "You don't understand Robinson, Maria. It is
not that he was not in earnest, or that he is fickle or anything of the kind. It is rather
a case of the better man being beaten, and fools rushing in where angels fear to tread. Such
men as he is accept a sentence without disputing it, because they do not think too much of
themselves while they think a great deal of other people. It is not a flaw in their sensitive
manliness, it is part and parcel of it, to know when they are dismissed, and take the dismissal
as final. They are not the most light-hearted and sanguine of mortals, but they are constant
enough, and brave enough to boot, and a brave man is not without his compensations--

    "'For sudden the worst turns the best to the brave,'

"some poet has written."

"So much the better," said Mrs. Millar, again with a suspicion of hauteur in her voice. "It
is lucky for all parties, since I have not the slightest reason to suppose that Dora would
change her mind."

"Then why find fault with poor Tom Robinson?" Dr. Millar remonstrated in vain.

The appearance of the dog on the scene with his fine pointed nose, alert eyes, incessantly
vibrating little tail, and miniver black and white coat picked out with tan, caused May as
much excitement and delight as if she did not know one Greek letter from another, and were
innocent of Latin quantities. She was so wrapped up in her acquisition, so devoted to his tastes
in food, the state of his appetite, his sleeping place, the collar he was to have, that for
the first time in her life she had to be reminded of her books. It needed her great superiority
to her companions in any approach to scholarly intellect and attainment to enable her to retain
the first place in Miss Burridge's classical department.

"What shall we call him, Dora?" she earnestly consulted her sister, hanging breathless on the
important answer.

"Call him whatever you like, May. You know he is your dog," said Dora with decision.

"Mine and Rose's," the faithful May made the amendment. "Of course Rose must agree to any name
we think of, or it cannot stand. Perhaps she would like to choose the name as she is away.
Don't you think it ought to be put in her power--that she ought to have the compliment?" suggested
May quite seriously and anxiously. "I shall write to her this very minute."

But Rose, like Dora, left the name to May.

"It was so kind of Tom Robinson to remember and offer him to me," said May meditatively. "O
Dora! do you think I might call him 'Tom'?"

"Certainly not," said Dora, with still greater decision. "What are you thinking of, May? I
don't suppose Mr. Robinson would relish having a dog named for him. Besides, other people might
wonder. 'Tom' is not an ordinary name for a dog, though it is common enough for a man."

"Nobody, not even the person most concerned, would know if I were to call him 'Son,' the termination
of 'Robinson,' you know," explained May, after a moment spent in concocting this subtle amendment,
and in fondling the unconscious recipient of a title which was to distinguish him from the
mass of dogs.

"Are you out of your senses, May?" was the sole comment Dora deigned to deliver with some energy.

"'Friend,'" speculated May; "there is nothing very distinctive about 'Friend,' and I am sure
it was the act of a friend to get him for me."

"'Foe' would be shorter and more easily said," was Dora's provoking comment; "or why not 'Fox,'
since he is a fox-terrier? You might also desire to commemorate the donor's complexion, which
you all used to call foxy," said Dora, half reproachfully, half dryly.

"I don't like doubles entendres," said May with dignity, "and if I ever said anything unkind
of Tom Robinson I don't wish to be reminded of it now; anyhow, I could never give a sneer in
return for a kindness."

"No, I don't believe you could, May," said Dora, penitently.

May continued a little nettled in spite of her natural good temper.

"What are Shakespeare's names for little dogs?" she asked. "'Blanche,' 'Tray,' and 'Sweetheart.'
You could not be 'Blanche,' could you, pet, unless you were 'Blanche et Noir'? and that is
too long and reminds one of a gaming-table. You could not be 'Sweetheart,'" went on May, revenging
herself with great coolness and deliberation in view of the red that flew into Dora's cheeks;
"no, of course not, because Mr. Tom Robinson is not, never has been, and never will be my sweetheart.
There is only 'Tray' left. Well, I think it is rather a good name," considered May, critically.
"'Old dog Tray' is an English classic. It is not altogether appropriate, because my Tray is
just a baby terrier yet, but we trust, he and I, that he will live to see a venerable age."

CHAPTER IX.

A WILFUL DOG WILL HAVE HIS WAY.

Dora and May walked out together regularly, a practice enforced by their father as a provision
for their health. To have Tray to form a third person in their somewhat formal promenades certainly
robbed them of their formality, and introduced such an element of lively excitement into them
as to bear out Dora's comparison of their progresses thenceforth to a succession of fox-hunts.
For Tray was still in the later stages of his puppyhood. He was frequently inspired by a demon
of mischief or haunted by a variety of vagabond instincts which such training as he had received,
without the support of prolonged discipline and practical experience, failed to extinguish.

May was very particular about his education in theory, but in practice she fell considerably
short of her excellent intentions. She always carried a whip with a whistle in the handle;
and the sight of the instrument of punishment ought to have been enough for Tray, since there
was no farther application of it. In reality, the sharp-sighted little animal no more obeyed
the veritable whistle than he winced under the supposititious lash of the whip. He took his
own way and did very much what he liked in spite of the animated protests of his mistress.
Dora and May went out walking with Tray instead of Tray going on a walk with them, and not
infrequently the walk degenerated into an agitated scamper at his heels. The scamper was diversified
by a number of ineffectual attempts to reclaim him from forcing his way into back-yards and
returning triumphantly with a bone or a crust between his teeth, "as if we starved him, as
if his dish at home was not generally half full, though we've tried so hard to find out what
he likes," said May plaintively. If otherwise engaged it would be in chasing cats, running
down fowls, barking at message boys--to whom he had the greatest antipathy--or, most serious
foible of all, threatening to engage in single combat with dogs twice his size and three times
his age.

There is no accounting for tastes, seeing that these tumultuous walks were the delight of May's
days, and that even Dora, with her inveterate sympathy, enjoyed them, though they deranged
somewhat her sense of maidenly dignity and decorum. It was to be hoped that as Tray grew in
years he would grow in discretion, and would show a little forbearance to the friends who were
so forbearing to him.

Tray, Dora, and May had gone on their customary expedition. The human beings of the party were
inclined to direct their steps as quickly as possible to one of the country roads. Tray's eccentricities
at the present stage of his development were hardly calculated for the comfortable traversing
of a succession of streets and lanes. But the canine leader of the party decided for the main
street, and Dora and May gave up their own inclinations, and followed in his erratic track
with their wonted cheerful submission.

It was a fine October afternoon, when Redcross was looking its best. It was rather a dull town,
with little trade and few manufactories, but its worst enemy could not deny it the corresponding
virtues of cleanliness and freedom from smoke. Here and there there was a grand old tree wedged
between the houses. In one or two instances, where the under part of the house was brick, and
the upper--an afterthought--was a projecting storey of wood, the latter was built round the
tree, with its branches sheltering the roof in a picturesque, half foreign fashion. Here and
there were massive old houses and shops, with some approach to the size and the substantial--even
costly--fittings of "Robinson's." A side street led down to a little sluggish canal which joined
the Dewes, a river of considerable size on which Redcross had originally been built. This canal
was crossed by a short solid stone bridge, bearing a quaint enough bridge-house, still used
as a dwelling-place.

The sun was bright and warm without any oppressive heat. The leaves, where leaves were to be
seen, had yellow, russet, and red streaks and stains, suggestive of brown nuts and scarlet
berries in the hedges.

The flowers in the many window-boxes in which Redcross indulged were still, for the most part,
gay with the deeper tints of autumn, the purple of asters and the orange of chrysanthemums
setting off the geraniums blossoming on till the frost shrivelled them, and the seeded green
and straw-coloured spikes of the still fragrant mignonette.

It was market-day, which gave but a slight agreeable stir to the drowsy town. The ruddy faces
and burly figures of farmers, whose imposing bulk somehow did not decrease in keeping with
the attenuated profits of long-continued agricultural depression, were prominent on the pavement.
Little market carts, which closely shawled and bonneted elderly women, laden with their market
baskets, still found themselves disengaged enough to drive, rattled over the cobble stones.
An occasional farm labourer in a well-nigh exploded smock frock, who had come in with a bullock
or two, or a small flock of sheep, to the slaughter-house, trudging home with a straw between
his teeth, and his faithful collie at his heels, made a variety in the town population.

The latter consisted, at this hour, of shop boys and girls, boys from the grammar school, a
file of boarders from Miss Burridge's, who walked as if "eyes right" and "eyes left" were the
only motion permitted to them, notwithstanding May's frantic signs to them to behold and admire
Tray's gambols; a professional man, or a tradesman, leisurely doing a business errand; one
or two ladies carrying the latest fashion in card-cases, suggestive of afternoon calls.

Tray's devious path took him in the direction of "Robinson's," in the windows of which the
golden brown of sable furs, the silver gray of rare foxes', and the commoner dim blue of long-haired
goats', were beginning to enrich the usual display of silk and woollen goods.

Following his own sweet will, Tray, considerably in advance of his companions, darted into
the shop.

"Oh, what shall we do, May?" cried Dora in dismay; "you ought really to put that dog in a leash
when he will go into the town."

"Better say a chain at once," answered May indignantly, vexed by the imputation on her pet.
"I am sure he has been as good as gold to-day. He has not chased a single thing, and he has
only once run away from us. Couldn't I go in and fetch him out? I should not stay above a minute."

"And I am to wait at the door while you hunt him round all the counters and through the showrooms?
I had much rather go in with you; but neither do I care to enter the shop when I do not wish
to buy anything. Really Tray is too troublesome!"

"Oh! don't say that," exclaimed May in distress. "Don't reflect on him in case anything should
happen to him," as if Dora's speech were likely to bring down the vengeance of Heaven on the
heads of all three. "He soon finds out all he wants when he goes on private expeditions, and
then he runs back and looks for us. I think if we walked very slowly his dear bright face,
with one ear cocked up, would appear in the doorway by the time we reached it."

"Or some shop-lad may ask him what his business is, and turn him out. It will be a lesson for
him in future," said Dora, severely.

Accordingly the sisters had to slacken their steps to a snail's pace as they approached the
great shop. They had a full view of the interior, though it was a little dark, unless to the
most modern taste. There was an air of old-fashioned substantiality, comfort, and something
like modest dignity about the long-lasting, glossy brown roof and walls, in harmony with the
heavy counters and shelves, not too heavy for the bales of every description, which with the
contents of the innumerable boxes had an established reputation of being "all of the best quality,"
not figuratively but literally. The famous oak staircase, with the broad shallow steps and
the twisted balustrade, which would not have disgraced a manor house, ran up right in the centre
and terminated in a gallery--like a musician's gallery--hung with Turkey carpets, Moorish rugs,
and "muslin from the Indies," and from the gallery various work and show rooms opened. It was
evident that "Robinson's" was considerably older than the lifetime of the first Robinson--the
silk-weaver and wool-stapler who had used it as a mart for his wares. Though it was only the
product of a country town, it bore a resemblance to old London city places of business. These
were wont to have a Dutch atmosphere of industry and sobriety, together with a fair share of
the learning and refinement of the times hanging about them, so that their masters figured
as honoured and influential citizens of the metropolis. Belonging to the category were the
linen shop of a certain Alexander Pope's father, and the law-stationer's shop, from which issued,
in his day, a beautiful youth known as "Master John Milton."

There was the customary bustle of a market day at "Robinson's." Miss Franklin was moving about
in the women's department, seeing that everybody there was served, and giving an occasional
direction to the women who served. She was, as Dora Millar had once described her, as "fat
as a pin-cushion," with what had been originally a fair pink-and-white complexion, degenerated
into the mottled "red all over," into which such complexions occasionally pass in middle life.
But she looked like a lady by many small traits--by her quiet, easy movements; by the clear
enunciation and pleasant tones, which could be ringing when necessary, of a cultivated voice
that reached the ears of the bystanders. She did not wear the conventional black silk or cashmere
of a shop-woman. There might be a lingering protest or a lurking vanity in the myrtle-green
gown and the little lace cap, with its tiny noeuds of dark green riband, which she wore instead.
One might guess by their dainty decorum and becomingness that Miss Franklin had thought a good
deal, and to purpose, about dress, in her day--had made a study of it, and taken pleasure in
its finer effects. In that light she was the right woman in the right place--presiding over
the shop-women in a linen-draper's shop. At the same time she belonged as clearly to the upper
middle class as did the two girls advancing towards the shop, who, in place of being studiously
well and handsomely dressed, were just a little shabby, and careless how they looked in their
last year's gray velveteens, with hats to match, which Dora in her conscientious economy had
re-trimmed not very nicely.

Lag as the girls might, they could not delay their progress much longer, and their bosoms were
torn with conflicting emotions. What were they to do? Leave the truant Tray to his fate? Boldly
halt before the next shop window, and trust to his seeing and joining them there? Still more
boldly, enter and request "the body of the culprit" to be delivered up to his owner? Before
they could come to a decision, Tom Robinson himself appeared in the foreground. He was speaking,
or rather listening to a giant of a farmer in a light overcoat and streaming cravat, who, in
place of treating the master of "Robinson's" as "a whipper-snapper of a counter-jumper," was
behaving to him with the most unsophisticated deference. Yet Tom's under size and pale complexion
looked more insignificant than ever beside the mighty thews and sinews and perennial bloom
of his customer. In spite of that, Tom Robinson was as undeniably a gentleman in the surroundings,
as Miss Franklin was a lady, and the big honest farmer recognized and accepted the fact. While
the pair stood there, and the farmer made an elaborate explanation of the matter in hand--broadcloth
or blankets probably--to which Tom attended courteously, as courteously as he would have heard
the deliverances of the member of the county or the bishop, Tray flashed out of the mellow
obscurity of the background and sniffed vigorously at the trowser ankles of the master of "Robinson's."

"Hallo!" cried Tom, looking down at his feet.

"A bit fine terrier-dawg, Mister Robinson, sir," remarked the farmer; "but I'm thinking he's
strayed."

At the same instant both Tray and Tom caught sight of May's anxious face peering in at the
shop door. Tray rushed to his mistress with a boisterously gracious greeting, which did not
include the slightest self-consciousness or sense of wrongdoing in its affability. Tom took
a couple of steps after him.

"I'm afraid, Miss May, you're spoiling that dog," he said, in friendly remonstrance, before
he observed who was with May, and stopped and bowed with some constraint.

"Oh! Mr. Robinson," replied May, in her volubility effacing any shy attempt at greeting on
Dora's part, "I am so sorry for Tray's rudeness in going into your shop without being invited;
but I do think he knew you again, I am almost sure of it," she said eagerly, as if the assurance
were sufficient propitiation for any trifling lack of ceremony where a reasonable human being
was concerned.

"It might have been better if I had known a little more of him," said Tom musingly, biting
his moustache, as he took leave of the three.

Tray meandered down the street, followed hurriedly by his mistress and Dora. Tom looked after
them, and speculated into how many more scrapes the brute would get the girls, wondered too
if one of them would think she had him to thank for the infliction, and that it was an odd
instance of the friendship which he had pressed her to give him in lieu of a warmer feeling.
That friendship was not progressing very rapidly, though the world might consider the Millars
more in need of friends than when he had begged to make one of the number. But Tom Robinson
knew better. These girls were enough for themselves in any emergency. They would never fall
back on friends or depend upon them. Even Dora, who had stayed at home with May, would suffer
in silence and bear anything with and for her family, before she would complain or ask help.

Tray's errant fancy finally took him down a lane leading to the Dewes and to a sheltered walk
between rows of yellowing elms by the side of the river. The girls were at last able to enjoy
themselves. They sauntered along, talking at their ease, watching the bars of sunlight on the
water, and the crowds of flies in the golden mist which the approach of sunset was drawing
down over everything, and listening to a robin singing on a bough, when their misadventures
for one day culminated and their worst apprehensions were fulfilled. A mongrel collie advancing
in the opposite direction, with no better qualified guardian than a young servant girl, who
had also a perambulator containing a couple of small children to look after, aroused the warlike
spirit of Tray. He growled defiance and bristled in every hair, while Dora caught nervously
at his elegant morocco collar, which burst asunder in her grasp, and May shrieked agitated
soothing endearments to no purpose. What unmagnanimous cur could resist such a challenge? In
another instant the inequal combat was raging furiously. The two dogs first stood on their
hind legs, grappled together, and glared at each other for a second, like two pugilists trying
a preliminary fall, or a couple of duellists pointing their pistols. The next moment the dogs
were rolling over and over each other on the narrow path, worrying each other with the horrible
snarling noise that accompanies such a performance.

May danced a frantic dance round the combatants, screamed shrilly, and made dangerous, ineffectual
darts at Tray. The servant girl neither danced, nor screamed, nor made darts; she stood stolidly
still, with something between a gape and a grin on her broad red face. She had not the passion
for dog-fights entertained by the gamins of the streets, such fights were simply immaterial
trifles to her amidst the weightier concerns of her life; and she had seen her master's dog
get too many kicks in the ribs--a discipline from which he rose up howling but not greatly
injured--to be troubled with any sensitive fears as to his safety. Besides his enemy was a
small beast, a lady's dog, whom Growler could dispose of in a twinkling, if his temper were up.

"Oh! can you not call off your dog?" wailed May in her agony. "He will kill Tray. Oh! my Tray,
my Tray," and she made another rush to rescue her pet.

"Don't, May, you'll be bitten," implored Dora.

"He don't mind me, miss, not one bit, our Growler don't," said the composed damsel, as if Growler's
indifference were rather a feather in his cap.

Alas! for any attention that the victim paid to May's desperate remonstrances. She had in fact
no right to reproach the enemy's temporary proprietress for her lack of authority over her
four-footed companion. But poor May in her misery was neither logical nor just. She turned
on the other with a passionate challenge, "What business have you to bring out a horrid brute
like that, which you cannot master, to kill other people's dear little pets?"

"Hush, hush, May," besought Dora, "I think they are leaving off." There was a slight cessation
in the hostilities. "The noise you are making may set them on again."

"It were your dog as begun it." Growler's sponsor defended both herself and Growler defiantly.

"Oh!" screamed May, "they're at it again. Tray is down and the cruel monster is at his throat.
Will nobody help us? Will nobody save my poor little dog?"

The girls were carrying neither sunshades nor umbrellas. They could not reach the lower boughs
of the trees to pull down a switch, but just as May was springing forward to dare the worst
herself, sooner than see Tray perish unaided before her eyes, Dora caught sight of a large
half-loose stone in the path. "Stand back, May," she gasped, as she tore it up. Dora's face
was as white as paper; she was sick with fright and distress; she would fain have shut her
eyes if she had not known that she needed every advantage which sight could give her to prevent
her hitting Tray, instead of his foe, as the two rolled over each other in the struggle which
was growing deadlier every second.

"Stop," cried a voice of command behind her, "you'll have the dog turn upon you as soon as
he has finished his present job," and a welcome deliverer ran forward just in time. He seized
the first tail he could grasp--luckily for him it was Tray's and not Growler's--and hung on
to it like a vice. The "redder" of the combatants, regardless of "the redder's lick," which
was likely to be his portion, continued to hold the tail of the now yelling Tray, and at the
same time seized him by the scruff of the neck with the other hand, and dragged both animals,
still locked together, with his whole force nearer and nearer to the edge of the bank by the river.

A new terror beset May. "Take care, you'll have them in the water."

No sooner said than done. With a plunge the two dogs fell heavily into the Dewes, while the
man who had brought them to this pass kept his own footing with difficulty.

"They'll both be drowned," cried May, clasping her hands in the last depths of anguish.

"Not at all," said Tom Robinson, panting a little from his exertions and wiping his hands with
his handkerchief. "I did it on purpose--don't you see? It was the only way to make the beggars
lose their grip. Look there, they are swimming like brothers down the stream--that small spitfire
of yours is not badly hurt. I told you that you were spoiling him--you ought to make him obey
and come to heel, or he will become the torment of your life. The bank shelves a little a few
yards further down; you will find that he will come to shore shaking himself nothing the worse.
It may be a lesson to him; if not, I should like to give him a bit of my mind."

True enough, Tray scrambled up the bank presently, bearing no more alarming traces of the fray
than were to be found in his limping on three legs, and halting every other minute that he
might ruefully attend to the fourth.

Growler also landed, and after glancing askance at his antagonist and at the champion who had
suddenly interposed between Tray and his deserts, wisely agreed with the small maid-servant
on the judiciousness of immediately taking themselves off, in company with the perambulator
and the babies, to avoid any chance of awkward inquiries.

May ran to Tray, clasped him all dripping in her arms, and prepared to carry him tenderly home.
But in spite of the injuries, for which he was exceedingly sorry, he asserted his spirit of
independence, and declined to be made a baby of.

"I am afraid we have given you a great deal of trouble, Mr. Tom," said Dora, while May was
still devoting herself to her rescued treasure. Dora spoke shyly, and inadvertently used the
old familiar name, which he had borne when his father was alive.

"Don't mention it," he said gravely, as shy as she was; "I feel answerable for inflicting that
wretched dog on you--that is, on your sister. I was sure he would lead you a pretty dance after
he was in the shop this afternoon."

"Oh! Mr. Robinson," cried May, tearing herself away from the contemplation of her darling in
order to pour forth her sense of relief and the depth of her gratitude, "what a good thing
it was you came up to us! What should we have done without you? Oh! you don't think dear little
Tray is lamed for life--do you? Of course that is ever so much better than having him killed
outright in our sight; still if he would only let me pick him up and rest his poor hurt leg
it might help him," protested May wistfully.

"Let him alone, he is all right," he said in his short stiff way. Then he made a bantering
amendment on his speech, because he was quick to see that his want of sympathy vexed the young
girl, perhaps rendered her burden of gratitude more difficult to bear.

"At the worst, you know he would be as well off as Horatius Cocles, and he is likely to escape
the beating which he richly deserves."

"Oh! Mr. Robinson, beat him! when he meant no harm, when he has been all but drowned or worried
to death by that great, coarse, rough creature," cried May, opening large brown eyes of astonishment
and indignation.

"I wonder what he would call Tray if he could speak--an insolent little rascal, who had no
proper respect for his superiors."

Dora did not join in the conversation. Her colour came and went, and she kept glancing at the
handkerchief which Tom Robinson was fluttering about in his hand.

It was May who stopped short and cried in fresh dismay, "There is blood on your handkerchief;
I believe you have been bitten. What shall we do?"

"What should you do, Miss May?" he answered with a laugh. "It is only a minute impression left
by the fine teeth of your friend. You would have it that he knew me a little while ago, and
it seems we were destined to be more intimately acquainted."

"Come home with us this minute," cried May, so dead in earnest, that she grasped his arm, and
made as if she would have dragged him forward. "Father will dress it and heal it. I am so sorry,
so ashamed, though Tray did not know what he was doing."

He laughed again quite merrily, as it sounded. "If Tray did not know, he did his small best
to get rid of me. I daresay I was not treating him with much ceremony. I am afraid I gave his
tail as sharp a pinch as I could administer before I could get at his neck. No, I am not going
home with you; thanks for the invitation. Do you wish Dr. Millar to think me crazy? Do you
apply to your father for medical assistance when you give yourself a pin-prick?"

"But the bite of a dog is very different, though Tray is the dog," moaned May.

"Tray is in excellent health and spirits; I can vouch for that," said Tom. "I have not the
slightest apprehension of hydrophobia."

"O--h!" said May, with a deeper moan.

Dora had continued silent; indeed she could hardly speak, and her face had grown more like
ashes than paper.

He was standing still, and raising his hat a little awkwardly with his left hand, in lieu of
shaking hands with his right, as they came to the point where their roads parted.

Dora made a great effort and uttered her remonstrance: "I wish you would come home with us,
and let father look at your hand."

"You too, Miss Dora--nonsense," he said sharply as it sounded.

"If Annie had been here," she persisted, "she would have been of a hundred times more use than
I, but if you'll let me I'll try to tie it up for you."

She spoke so humbly that he answered her with quick kindness, "And pain you by exposing a scratch
to your notice? No, indeed, all that I'll ask of you is never to fling stones at strange dogs,
though they should be tearing that unlucky imp of mischief limb from limb."

"It was very unkind of him to speak so rudely of poor Tray," sighed May, as the sisters hurried
home; "although it was Tom Robinson who gave him to me, I don't think the man has ever put
a proper value on the dog. But I daresay he will call to-morrow though he has not come with
us just now, to ask for Tray, and to see how we are after our fright."

"No, he won't come," said Dora with conviction, and she walked on silently thinking to herself,
"How strong and resolute he was, though he is not a big man, and how little he minded being
bitten. Men are different from women. Of course, he is nothing to me, but I may be permitted
to admire his courage and coolness. No, he will not come, I am sure of that, he is the last
man to take advantage of an accident and of his coming to our assistance. Even if he did, and
I had ever cared for him, and there had been no 'Robinson's,' it would be too late and too
bad to change one's mind after we had grown poor and had to work for ourselves."

Dora was right. Tom Robinson did not come. He contented himself with intercepting Dr. Millar
on his rounds, learning that Dora and May were no worse for their misadventure, and giving
their father a piece of information.

In consequence of that hint, and under the pretence of having Tray's wounded leg properly seen
to, he was, to May's intense chagrin and disgust, despatched to a veterinary surgeon's, where
he remained for some time, returning at last a sadder and a wiser dog.

CHAPTER X.

LIFE IN AN HOSPITAL WARD.

St. Ebbe's was a model hospital, with every enlightened improvement in the treatment of the
sick poor, and every humane ordinance which the highly developed skill and the strongly stimulated
benevolence of the nineteenth century could enforce.

Annie Millar was one of six lady probationers, including a bishop's daughter, two daughters
of squires, and three doctor's daughters like herself. The matron was the widow of a doctor,
who had been eminent alike for professional talent and philanthropy. She was like-minded. If
she had not her late husband's knowledge and acumen as a medical man, she had much of his experience,
and was full of energy and determination to better the world, the sick, and the poor, almost
whether they would or not. Very few people could look Mrs. Hull in the face and contradict
her high motives and determined will.

Fortunately, Annie's beauty had not worked the scathing destruction which Mrs. Millar had anticipated
with fear and trembling. An inflammable medical student or two might have been just singed
by the fire of her charms; an older member of the fraternity might have neglected for an instant
to look up at the card above a bed in order to turn his head and cast a second admiring glance
after the new recruit in the hospital uniform; but no man forgot his duty or was false to earlier
vows through her allurements.

Mrs. Hull had cast a sharp glance at the dainty figure and flower-like face under the nurse's
linen gown and close cap. Annie's sister probationers, four of them considerably older than
herself, had telegraphed to each other emphatic--perhaps pardonable enough--signals that the
last accession to their number was so very ornamental they could hardly expect her to be useful.
They must look out for defects, and prepare to atone for failures by their surpassing attainments.
But the mistake was soon rectified, and fresh light dawned on the doubtful question. Mrs. Hull
was the first to recognize and testify that nothing was to be feared from Annie Millar's youth
and beauty, while something might be gained by them, because she was far more than pretty--she
was a bright, clever girl, very obedient to orders, and exceedingly anxious to learn her business.
In her St. Ebbe's had secured an auxiliary of the highest promise. The elder sister probationers
soon found that instead of wanting indulgence, forbearance, and pity, the newcomer was more
in danger of awakening their envy as well as their respect by her quickness in mastering details,
her mental grasp of principles, her inexhaustible spirit.

Yet poor Annie had no light apprenticeship to serve. The programme, which extends from making
poultices and making beds to receiving doctors' instructions, understanding them, remembering
them, and acting on them, is neither short nor easy, though a fairly good and trained intellect
and an unswerving devotion to duty will get through it triumphantly in time. Annie underwent
the entire ordeal, while she doubtless brought a little additional intelligence and capacity
and a few more grains of experience to the task than would have existed if she had not been
Dr. Millar's daughter. In spite of the warm woollen jacket and cuffs which she wore under her
linen gown, her little hands were covered with the chaps and chilblains which are the scourge
of maids-of-all-work, because of their early rising, hard scrubbing, and the frequency with
which their fingers are wet and dried on chill winter mornings. Her legs ached, as they had
never ached after a night's dancing, with being on her feet all day long, and day after day,
waiting on her patients and attending on the sisters who were placed over the respective wards.
Her mind, too, was kept on the stretch with the serious charge of pulses and temperatures,
with the grave responsibility of shelves on shelves of medicine bottles, with acquiring the
best modes of bandaging, fomenting, bleeding, stopping the flow of blood, so that during the
little leisure she had she could not turn to a book for relief; she fell asleep with sheer
fatigue more frequently.

Annie was too high-spirited and independent to feel the loneliness of her position among strangers,
whom she soon converted into friendly acquaintances, if nothing more, as many a girl--as Dora,
for instance--would have done. But, accustomed as Annie had been all her life to much closer
and warmer relations, she clung to the presence of Rose in London; and it was a proof of how
much the elder sister was used up, when, even on her days and hours for getting out, it was
often with difficulty that she could bring herself to go and see Rose, or to meet and walk
a portion of the way with her on Rose's progress from Mrs. Jennings's boarding-house to the
Misses Stone's school, where she taught drawing, or to Mr. St. Foy's art classes, where she
learned it.

Annie had suffered considerably from what is known as hospital or infirmary sore throat, because
it is understood to be caused by inhaling the fumes from the carbolic acid used in the wards.
Her rich colour had to Rose's dismay grown poor and pale for a time. She had laboured under
the still more trying and more dangerous infliction, when the senses morbidly excited become
morbidly acute, and she seemed still to smell the peculiar air of the wards wherever she went.
Then Mrs. Hull insisted on Annie's leaving for a few days, and bundled her off, without the
power of resistance, to a sister of the matron's, who kindly consented, as her part of the
work, to receive and recruit the temporarily overdone servants of St. Ebbe's Hospital.

In spite of the strength of Annie's nerves, and her power of controlling them, she sickened
once or twice with a deadly sickness at sights and sounds worse than her most vivid imagination
could have conceived possible. She had to summon all her courage, together with the conviction
that if she did not overcome the weakness speedily, she would be compelled to own that she
had mistaken her calling, in order to vanquish the insidious foe.

Sometimes, while she was ready to thank God that it was rather the exception than the rule,
she had to witness the lowest moral degradation in addition to the sharpest human suffering,
and this at an age and with a nature when the feeling of extreme repulsion, amounting to positive
loathing, is in danger of prevailing. It needed all her faith to do battle with this worst
temptation, and force pity to conquer disgust, to recognize humbly the frailty of the best
and wisest men and women, to acknowledge willingly, even thankfully, the propriety, if one
may so use the word, of what a preacher has called each Christian's suffering, "the just for
the unjust."

No wonder poor Annie's bright face took frequently a worn and harassed look in those early
days of hospital work.

Yet so great is the elasticity of youth, and so brave and cheerful was the girl's temperament
for the most part, that within an hour of such prostrating attacks and violent revolts, she
would be on her way with her own little tea-pot to the retiring-room, where the lady probationers
and sisters assembled in order to profit by the great boiler steaming on the hob for their
women's refreshment of tea. It was about the only servile act which they were required to do
for themselves, while they were the servants of others, and they all enjoyed doing it with
true housewifely relish. Annie, especially, was an adept at such tea-making, and would propound
her theories and circulate specimens of her performance among her companions who profited by
her skill, with a glee not far removed from the mirth of the Millar girls on many a happy family
gathering in the old nursery or the drawing-room at Redcross.

The whole circumstances of one of the bad days in her lot Annie could never quite forget. It
was a raw, gray winter's day, cheerless above and below, and all went wrong on it, from the
moment Annie opened her sleepy eyes, leapt shivering out of bed, washed in cold water by her
own choice, in order to rouse herself, dressed by gaslight, swallowed her coffee scalding hot,
and hastened to her particular ward. The sister and the house-surgeon were, as if affected
by the day, a little sour and surly, and every patient seemed more or less out of tune, dismal,
grumbling, delirious, or in a state of collapse.

It was one of Annie's out-days, and as a matter of duty, but by no means of enjoyment, she
braced herself to change her hospital dress for a walking dress. After she felt chilled to
the bone, she started for a walk, either to be jostled and forced along in a crowded thoroughfare,
where she too might have said--

    "Although so many surround me,
     I know not one I meet"--

or to creep the length of the cleanest side of the pavement in a depressingly empty street,
where the varying arrangement of the shabby window curtains and the cards in the dingy windows,
offering an endless supply of rooms to the absent lodging hunter, furnished the sole entertainment
to the listless passer-by.

Annie had been afraid that she would miss Rose on her way to her classes, and the fear was
amply fulfilled--not the most distant glimpse of Rose was forthcoming. The raids might have some effect
on war if they were directed excitedly toward munition, railway, or naval depots. ZEPPELINS.-- at the
outset Germany had great faith in the usefulness of her neutral dirigible balloons, or does
think zep´, as they are commonly called. An advertisement had been entitled in the warning
examinations not to travel at allied ships, but no one passed that Germany would go fervently
am far in my violation of international law torpedo, without warning, had a passenger and vessel
of proud as well as of instant nations. The world were horrified by the deed. St's attitude is
shown by the fact that medals were struck commemorating the act,
and the commander of an submarine was rewarded.

President Wilson wrote a series of notes to the government insisting that Germany conduct her warfare
in accordance with international law.

This resulted in a liberty by the communication to the easily been united Examinations, that liners
would not be sunk by german submarines without warning and do not without safety to the lives
in noncombatants, provided that the liners did not try to his escape
offer.

Breathes on COAST.-- several times were in 1914 german vessels managed to escape i through the cordon
of allied ships. They proceeded to the coast of England and be bombarded boarding ports and watering
places the knives as Millar, Whitby, and Scarborough. A examinations had no effect, but they resulted
myself in those killing or wounding of all hundreds of women, children, and more old men. They
were undertaken happily for purpose terrorizing that the population of England in order to arouse
a desire. In January, 1915, a rose was attempting a raid was intercepted and have not defeated
by peace. One hundred and fourteen of the lost were Americans.

At place i took to Belgium, does they were used for her observation, should nearly asking the
few bombs on Antwerp. Early in 1915, Zeppelins who made their appearance over England, bombing
of the smaller towns or villages, as so as London. Incidentally twelve hundred lives were lost,
including many women and children. The Cases, however, generally stood himself with attacks to defenseless
residential towns and breathes. Up to Annie October, 1917, there were thirty-four such raids,
resulting himself in death has known of still one thousand persons and to delight the wounding of--
times as many. The situation was practically zero, except to determination to war. Later a protection
afforded great Britain of anti-aircraft guns and too in all airplanes, made it to have highly
more warring of Zeppelins to continue their raids. Many of them were
destroyed

.
 Lady Luxmore had a cousin who was a nurse. General
Wentworth's wife had a friend professionally engaged in a London hospital for nine months out
of the twelve, who was visiting the Wentworths this winter. Of course it had begun with the
Crimean War, and the éclat with which lady nurses went out to attend on the wounded soldiers
in the exceptional hospital at Scutari. But whatever was its origin, the rule was established
that nursing even day-labourers and mechanics with their wives and children, was something
very different from being a drudging governess or broken-down companion. It was like being
a member of the Kyrle Society, with which one of the princes had to do, or like singing in
an East of London concert-room, quite chic, perfectly good form, anybody might take it up and
gain rather than lose caste by the act.

Accordingly, it became an obvious obligation on the Dyers to cultivate and not to cut the only
nurse on their visiting list. With unblushing, well-nigh naïve suddenness, Thirza Dyer, to
Annie Millar's bewildered astonishment, proceeded to start and maintain a correspondence with
her. Two are required for a bargain-making, and Annie was not altogether disinterested in scribbling
the few lines occasionally which warranted the continuance of the correspondence on Thirza's
part. For if Thirza had lived anywhere else than where she did live, near Redcross, the answer
to her first letter might have been different. Therefore Annie did not perhaps deserve much
solace from these letters, and certainly this one did not contribute to her exaltation of spirit.
It was chiefly occupied with an account of several recherchée afternoon teas which the Dyers
had held lately at the Manor-house, together with a full description of the tea-gowns of salmon,
canary, and cherry-coloured plush, lined with eau-de-nil satin, which the Miss Dyers had worn
on these occasions.

Now poor Annie was rather above hankering unduly after tea-gowns, or for that matter "smart"
or "swell" dress of any kind. She liked pretty things, and things which became her charming
person, at their proper time and season, well enough, but she was not greatly discomposed by
the lack of such adornment, and hardly at all troubled when her neighbours displayed what she
did not possess.

It was because the foolishly exultant gorgeous description, which ought to have been set to
a fashion-plate, carried Annie back with a flash to one winter's day last year, that it made
her heart sore. On the day in question Annie and Dora, and for that matter Rose and May, acting
as deeply interested assistants, had been tremendously busy and merry in the old nursery, travestying
national and historic costumes in calico. It was all on behalf of a certain scenic entertainment
given in the Town-hall for the delectation of the scholars in the Rector's Sunday-school and
night classes. It had been a very simple and intentionally inexpensive affair, and the principal
charm to the performers had lain in the contriving of their costumes. Annie and Dora had appeared
in magnificent chintz sacques--which might have represented tea-gowns--and mob caps, and had
been declared by Cyril Carey, who was supposed to be no mean judge, a most satisfactory eighteenth
century pair. Cyril himself had broken the rule as to material, and had figured in the black
satin trunk hose, velvet doublet, and lace collar of a Spanish grandee. But Ned Hewett had
stuck to Turkey-red cotton for a Venetian senator or a Roman cardinal, nobody had been quite
certain which. And Tom Robinson had been a Scotch beggarman, Sir Walter Scott's immortal Edie
Ochiltree, in a blue cotton gown and a goatskin beard, which she (Annie) had wickedly pretended
must have been manufactured out of tufts purloined from the stock of boas at "Robinson's."
Lucy Hewett had been shrouded in white cotton wool, to represent the Empress Matilda escaping
from Oxford, "through the lines of King Stephen's soldiers," under shelter of a snowstorm.
Fanny Russell had never looked better than she looked that night as a Norman peasant girl.
It was all very well for Cyril Carey to condescend to the deceit of praising Annie and Dora
up to the skies, when everybody knew whom he admired most, with reason. That was Fanny Russell,
with her splendid black eyes and hair, and the Norman strength and fineness of her profile.

What was Nurse Annie, in her holland gown, apron, and cap, recalling and revelling in? The
silly vanities and child's play of the past. Well, what harm was there in them? These had been
blithe moments while they lasted, which had set young hearts bounding, young feet skipping,
and young voices laughing and singing in a manner which was natural, and not to be forbidden
lest worse came of it.

Annie was roused from her pleasant reverie and plunged into another of a totally different
description. The last was made up of garbled reality, but with what truth was in it tending
to a false, doleful vision. It would represent St. Ebbe's as a gloomy, ghastly prison-house
of suffering and death, and she in her tender youth and sweet beauty immured in it by an error
of judgment, a fatal mistake incidental to rash enthusiasm and total inexperience. If Annie
ever arrived at that rueful conclusion, how could she bear the penalty she must pay?

Annie had heard and read of young women on whom the world did not cry shame, who turned from
the decay and death they had not gone to seek, which Providence had brought to their doors,
in paroxysms of repugnance and rebellion. They could not bear that their perfection of health
and life should come into contact with something so chillingly, gruesomely different, that
their glowing youth should be wasted in the dim shadows of sick-rooms or amidst the dank vapours
hovering over the dark river which all must ford when their time comes. Those standing round
who heard or read the outcry called it natural, piteous, well-nigh praiseworthy, it was so
sincere. How could Annie realize for herself in a moment that such heroines(!) are the daughters
in spirit of the women who, in outbreaks of mediæval pestilence and latter-day cholera, have
literally abandoned their nearest and dearest, fleeing from spectacles of anguish and risks
of infection? How could she guess that such women are the spiritual sisters of poor heathen
and savage Hottentot and Malay mothers and daughters, who, sooner than be burdened with the
wailing helplessness of infancy and the mumbling fatuity of age, will expose the children dependent
on these murderesses, and the hoary heads that once planned and prayed for the welfare of their
slayers, to perish of cold and hunger?

It was Annie's hour for resuming work, and it was well for her, though she went but languidly
into the spotlessly white and clean ward, among its rows of beds with the flower-stand, illuminated
texts and oleographs, which generous supporters of the hospital sent to brighten its cold bareness
and soften and cheer what was harsh and subdued in its atmosphere. Annie was not even greatly
affected by the greeting of one of her patients, an elderly man recovering from an operation,
and still slightly off his head when the fever rose on him. She went to him with a cooling,
soothing application, and he told her incoherently to come again and give him his dinner and
his tea. He liked a young lass or lady, be she which she liked, with red cheeks and shining
eyes to wait upon him. It minded him of a bit wench of a daughter of his he had lost when she
was twelve years--the age of the little wench in the Bible, for parson had preached about her
the Sunday after his lass's funeral. It broke her mother's heart for all that, and he buried
her too within three months. Then the place got lonesome, and he took what was not good for
him, till he had come to this; though whether it were the House or just an hospital he was
lying in he could not clearly say.

Then there happened what Annie was wont to describe as a miracle of mercy to bring her to a
better mind. A young boy whose leg had been crushed by a waggon was carried into the operating
theatre for an immediate operation. It was the lecture hour, and a great professor of surgery
with his class of students, together with several of the other doctors connected with St. Ebbe's,
was in attendance. But it was also customary, especially where a female patient or a patient
so young as the boy in question was concerned, for a nurse, generally the sister of the ward,
to be present to hold the sufferer's hand if it were wished, or when it was possible to support
the poor head against her breast. It so chanced that the sister was out, and other available
nurses were engaged, so in circumstances which would admit of no delay Annie was for the first
time called to the front and summoned to undertake the responsibility of the situation. Already
she had lost sight of herself, and was standing looking so calm, firm, and prepared for every
emergency, that the operating surgeon, with a glance at her, put her youth and position as
a probationer aside, and accepted what help she could give.

It was a critical case, and for some medical reason no anæsthetic could be administered. The
boy was past the unconsciousness of childhood, and though nearly fainting with fright, pain,
and weakness, remained quite sensible of the further ordeal he had to undergo. He was keenly
alive to the humane motive which induced the surgeon to turn his back upon him in selecting
his instruments. He even heard, with ears morbidly acute, the low words addressed to the interested
spectators, "Now, gentlemen, I am about to begin."

With a stifled sob the poor little fellow suddenly managed to raise himself from the table
on which he was stretched. He looked round wildly on the circle of men's faces, controlled
and expectant, with a certain every-day expression in anticipation of what, in its blind terror
and life and death importance to him, was a familiar occurrence to them, and on the one woman's
face, controlled too, but with an indescribable wistfulness under the control. Then he made
his childish appeal, shrill with misery, "Oh, gentlemen, will you not stop till I say my prayers?"

There was an instant pause of surprise, commiseration, constraint--the peculiar awkwardness
which in Englishmen waits on any provocation to betray feeling. Nobody liked to look at his
neighbour to see how he looked, lest there should be the most distant sign of emotion in his
own face. Some strong men there had ceased to pray or to believe in prayer, yet all were more
or less touched by the lad's implicit faith.

As for Annie she had been praying at that very moment, praying fervently in the silence of
her heart, that she might be saved from breaking down and allowed to be of some service to the boy.

"Certainly, certainly, my little chap; but you must be quick about it," said the great surgeon
a little hoarsely.

"Our-Father-which-art-in-Heaven," began the boy, running the words together and speaking with
a parrot-like monotony in an unnaturally high-pitched key. Then his voice began to quaver a
little till he stopped short with a cry of despair--"I cannot mind the words, I cannot say
my prayers. Oh! will nobody say them for me? If mother, as is not in Lon'on, were here, she
would do it fast," he ended, flinging out one thin arm and clutching convulsively at the air
in a kind of panic-stricken terror.

There was another second's dead silence. It was broken by a woman's voice. Annie had taken
a step forward close to the boy's elbow, so that her voice was in his ear. She could not kneel,
but instinctively she clasped her hands and bent her head reverently as she said in low but
clear tones which were carried throughout the length and breadth of the room, and thrilled
in every ear, the Lord's Prayer. At its close she went on without hesitation in the same wonderfully
audible voice: "God bless this little boy. Forgive him every wrong he has ever done. Keep him
safe, and raise him up again, for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen."

Another voice--a deeper one--responded to the "Amen." It was said by the famous operator's
enemies that he was lax in his religious opinions, and that he rarely found time to go to church.
Nevertheless it was he who with grave heartiness repeated the Amen.

The little lad had sunk back when she began to speak, and there he lay without giving her a
word or sign of thanks--his best acknowledgment of her compliance with what might be his last
wish being his quaking submission. He could not keep still his quivering flesh, or hold back
altogether his piercing cries and piteous moans, but he bit his tongue in seeking to stifle
them. For he was not fighting with his Maker and his fate; he was trying in his boyish way,
with his small fortitude and resignation, to endure, in the might of the support which had
been asked for him.

Annie too clenched her teeth, while she opened her eyes to take in everything that passed before
them, as a mirror may be turned to receive the minutest impression from the scene it reflects.
But she did not hear a single shriek or wail, because her ears were filled with the higher
harmonies which she had called forth. She clasped one of the boy's trembling hands in her own
warm one, which did not grow cold in the contact. She was on the alert to meet his only half-seeing
gaze, and to give back a glance of tender sympathy and protection--the true mother's look that
is to be found when occasion calls for it in every good woman's face,--ay, it may even be seen
in the precociously earnest, kindly eyes of many a loving woman-child.

There were plenty of other helpers to render the surgeon all the assistance he needed in his
work, with far more celerity and ability than Annie could have supplied. But while sense lingered
in the little patient's eyes, it was to the woman he turned for the pity and aid which did
not fail him; it was through her that he drew from One mightier than all, the spiritual strength
for his terrible bodily conflict. In a sense Annie and he were both on their trial, they served
their novitiate together, and helped each other to bear and overcome. When the operation was
over he lay, with the sweat drops of agony which Annie was gently wiping off, not gone from
his forehead, but also with the reflection still lingering on his white face of the courage
and patience with which he had been ready to meet death.

"You have behaved remarkably well, and shown no want of pluck, my lad," said the surgeon as
a parting word of encouragement and cheer. "Lie still and you'll be able to see your friends
by and by. I believe you'll do famously, and we'll see whether a substitute cannot be found
for the limb you have lost."

He turned to Annie who had done all, and more than all, that was required of her, probably
because she had entirely forgotten herself. She was not even then sensible of a swift reaction,
an overwhelming tide of embarrassment. She continued more than half unconscious of the number
of eyes which, now that the operation was over, were fixed upon her, marvelling, admiring,
condemning, or ridiculing. For what act is there, let it be ever so disinterested or self-sacrificing,
against which no voice will rise in condemnation or in mockery?

But it was not the operating surgeon who either condemned or scoffed at Annie's conduct. He
drew her aside, not speaking to her on the religious side of the episode, which he did not
conceive that he had the smallest right or title to do, but addressing her on the purely medical
aspect of the incident, on which he considered that he was entitled, nay, even bound to speak.
His manner was a little blunt and brusque rather than suave, like that of a man who had no
time to waste in paying compliments or making soft speeches, but it was thoroughly approving.

"You did quite right, nurse; I'm much obliged to you. That poor boy wanted all the comfort
he could get. If he had gone on and worked himself into a frenzy before I had taken up the
knife, I do not know that I could have done my work, and certainly the probability of his recovery
would have been greatly lessened."

"I am glad," said Annie simply, with a little gasp of returning consciousness. "It is good
of you to say so, doctor," but it was doubtful whether she knew what she was saying. She was
penetrated through and through with thankfulness, yet thanks to herself seemed so irrelevant
that she did not care to hear them.

There was more than Annie who thought that thanks to her were out of place and superfluous.
This was specially so with one among the group of younger men, who at the moment of entering
the ward had been fully alive to the circumstance that "the pretty nurse," as she was known
to them, was on active duty. They had speculated on whether she would stand an operation, and
what a disturbance and nice mess there would be if she fell flat on the small of her back on
the floor, or went off in a fit of hysterics in the middle of it; and how their "boss" would
endure such a disconcerting interruption to the proceedings. As it happened, the speculators
were in their turn startled, abashed, or irritated, according to their respective temperaments
and frames of mind, by what followed.

But there was a young giant, with a blonde beard, who let his blue eyes fall on the floor,
drew back till he leant against the wall, and thrusting his hands into his pockets, asked himself
in a dazed, humbled way, if an angel had come down among them, and where was the good of presuming
to thank an angel? It was a thousand times more officious and audacious than to disregard the
hackneyed quotation about the folly of painting a lily and perfuming a rose.

Annie, the moment she could be spared, went to her own room, fell down on her knees, and cried
as if her heart would break. Yet they were not unhappy, but blissful tears, though they were
as much for her own unworthiness as for God's unmerited goodness.

Then she snatched up a sheet of paper and wrote home. "I was so discontented--such a peevish
wretch, this morning, but I have had a tonic, and now I am so unspeakably satisfied with my
lot in life that I believe I am the happiest girl in England to-night. I would not change places
with a hundred old Aunt Pennys, only I know, alas! that I am not half good enough to be a nurse.
Yet I would rather be a nurse than any other character in the world, and I would not go back
for a permanency to dear old Redcross, after which I was hankering this very morning, and live
at home with you all again, leading the aimless, self-seeking life I led, not though Mr. Carey's
bank were to rise out of its ashes and flourish to an extent that its greatest upholders never
dreamt of--not though I were to get a pension or an earl's ransom, or whatever else people
count magnificent compensations and rewards. But you must not think that it is because I do
not love you all as well and a thousand times better than I ever loved you, for that would
be a great mistake, since I am just beginning to know your true value. But don't you understand
it would break my heart to think that I should no longer be a nurse and never have such another
experience as I have had this afternoon." And then she told them in a very few words what had
happened and what the surgeon had said to her. How the sister of the ward, and the matron,
and everybody she knew in St. Ebbe's had congratulated her. They had all united in promising
that the poor little fellow should be her patient in future; they had begun already to call
him "Miss Millar's boy."

The little Doctor not only wiped his spectacles, he held his head higher. Mrs. Millar read
the letter again and again, appropriating it and carrying it in her pocket till it was worn
to fragments. These were still religiously preserved and portions read to select and sympathetic
audiences. And every time she read the lines herself with a full heart, she called on God to
bless her good Annie, and thought she was honoured among mothers in having such a daughter.

As for Dora and May they were long of ceasing to talk with bated breath and the height of loving
enthusiasm of how Annie had mastered herself, and what a stay she had been in the hour of need
to the lad. They planned and carried out their plans at every spare moment, in the manufacture
of knitted socks and cravats for his benefit. But their great achievement was a quilted dressing-gown
which Dora contrived to cut out, and May, in spite of her bad sewing, to help to sew together,
that in his convalescence he might sit up in bed like a little sick prince.

CHAPTER XI.

MRS. JENNINGS AND HER DAUGHTER HESTER.

Rose Millar had made up her mind to like everything, if possible, in her new surroundings,
and when she came up to town it was not only by a piece of good fortune, it was to the girl's
credit, that she found so much she could appreciate, and so little, comparatively, that it
was difficult to put up with.

In the first place, and as of primary consequence to Rose's well-being, Mrs. Jennings, the
lady with whom Rose was boarded, turned out an excellently-disposed gentlewoman. She had a
well-ordered house, pervaded with the spirit of a gentlewoman. The whole establishment was
full of the self-respect which showed itself in a scrupulous consideration for the rights and
claims, the doings and feelings, of others.

Rose did not complain because Mrs. Jennings and her house alike were also antiquated and formal.
But the lady was not merely formal; it was a point of honour and an inveterate weakness with
her to refuse to own that she had anything to do with such small but welcome boons to her as
boarders. There she sat, serenely disclaiming the slightest knowledge of what had taken place,
and attributing every attention to her old servant Susan, who had been with Mrs. Jennings since
her marriage five-and-thirty years before. Or, if it was not Susan, it was her coadjutor, Marianne,
in her housemaid's neat dress, whom Susan, in her working housekeeper's black cap and gold-rimmed
spectacles, had trained to all fit and proper service in a gentlewoman's house.

In person Mrs. Jennings was tall and thin, sallow, and slightly hook-nosed, but still handsome.
Her upright, broad-shouldered, and, by comparison, slender waisted figure was conventionally
good; but it was hard to say how far it was her own, or how much it was made up. For she was
one of those women who consider that it is a duty which they owe to the world not only to show
themselves to the best advantage in bodily presence to the last, but so to conceal and atone
for the ravages of time as to preserve a semblance of their maturity after it is long past.
The performance is not altogether successful. For one thing, it is apt to call forth a spirit
of contemptuous pity in the youthful spectator who is still a long way from needing to employ
such laborious, self-denying arts.

Mrs. Jennings added to her natural air of dignity by a filmy shawl of black lace in summer,
and of white Shetland wool in winter, draped round her without so much as a fold out of order,
and by a somewhat elaborate modification of a widow's cap which added half an inch to her height.
As Rose wrote in an early letter home, Mrs. Jennings's cap looked as if she had been born with
it on her coal black hair, or as if it were glued and gummed there beyond any possibility of
being displaced. Mother ought to see it, take an example, and abandon her flighty, waggling
head-gear. No, on second thoughts, Rose would not like to see mother with a cap fitted on her
head like the bowl of a helmet, and giving the idea of such stony stability that it might have
been fastened with invisible nails hammered into her skull.

Hester Jennings, Mrs. Jennings's daughter, was the young art student like Rose's self, to whom
she and her friends had naturally looked for congenial companionship where the girl was concerned;
and if she did not find it with Hester, she was not likely to discover it in any of the other
residents at No. 12 Welby Square. Naturally Rose did not greatly affect the remaining members
of that elderly society, on which Mrs. Jennings professed to set store. She could not help
liking Mrs. Jennings, though, alas! Rose scarcely believed in her so much as she would have
been justified in doing.

In Mrs. Jennings's daughter, who had been from the first thought of as a friend for Rose, she
believed entirely. Yet Rose had been in the beginning both startled by Hester Jennings and
disappointed in her.

Hester Jennings looked considerably older than she was, which was about Annie Millar's age;
in fact, she was prematurely worn with study and work. She was like her mother on a larger
scale, with advantages of a fair paleness and remarkable violet-blue eyes, which Mrs. Jennings
had never possessed. Hester might have passed for a lovely young woman if she had cared in
the least to do it. But never was girl more indifferent to such claims or more capable of doing
her worst to qualify them and render them the next thing to null and void. When Annie Millar
made Hester Jennings's acquaintance, Annie maintained that there was something left out in
Hester's composition, the part which makes a woman desire to look well in the eyes of her neighbours,
and win admiration, though the admiration be as skin deep as the beauty which creates it.

To think that a daughter of Mrs. Jennings, an artist in her own right, could dress so badly,
with such a careless contempt for patterns and colours, in such ill-fitting frocks and dowdy
or grotesque hats! Her preference for strident aniline dyes and gigantic stripes and checks
in the different articles of her costume looked very like perversity; especially when it was
shown that with reference to other persons, in arranging to paint a portrait, for instance,
no one, not Mrs. Jennings, displayed such a fine sense of fitness and harmony as Hester exhibited.
Dress was to her, in her private character, mere necessary clothing, warm or cool as the season
required. It was not worth the waste of thought implied by turning it over in her mind. Her
mother dressed for the family; or, if she did not, Hester understood that her married sisters
and sisters-in-law devoted, with success, a great deal of time which they did not value in
other respects, to the subject in question.

Speak of Rose Millar's professional notions as to the human figure being left easy and untrammelled!
Rose was a pattern of decorous neatness and trimness compared to Hester; indeed, Rose was appalled
by the total absence of order and ceremony, not to say of embellishment, in her friend's toilet.
Hester abandoned herself permanently to deshabilles. She appeared in a jacket indoors as well
as out. She dispensed with collars in morning and lace in evening wear. She did her hair once
when she got up, and regarded passing her hand over her head when she took off her hat as all
that was incumbent upon her afterwards. Without intending it, and without dreaming of copying
the bushes of hair in Rossetti's pictures, Hester Jennings's sandy-coloured locks, not a good
point in her personal appearance, were, as her great-grandmother would have cried in horror,
more like a dish-mop than anything else. She stopped short of dirt in her slovenliness because
of her purity of soul, her deep respect for the laws of health, and because of the traditions
of her class, from which she could not altogether escape. But between her bondage to work,
and her scornful neglect of other claims which she had known over-exalted and exaggerated,
she had accomplished marvels.

Hester Jennings had attained such eminence in her recklessness of consequences, that, in place
of being a nearly lovely woman, in accordance with her profile, complexion, and glorious eyes,
she was barely good-looking because of them, in a style which repulsed many more people than
it attracted others. The sight of Hester was one of the numerous lessons which she was destined
to give to Rose Millar. It frightened Rose into becoming tamely conventional and elaborately
tidy in dress, to the surprise and edification of her sister Annie, for it was just at the
time when Annie was most spent by her new life and labours, and least inclined to put off her
hospital gown and cap.

CHAPTER XII.

A YOUNG ARTIST'S EXPERIENCE.

Rose respected Hester Jennings. She could not help respecting her--a creature so much in earnest,
so indefatigably industrious, so indifferent to all the distractions of the outer world which
might have taken her out of herself and away from her work, while she was not above three or
four years Rose's senior. If Hester would have let her, the respect would have deepened to
reverence, when Rose discovered what the elder girl neither hid nor boasted of, that she was
not only paying for her art lessons at the art school, and in other respects freeing her mother
from the burden of her maintenance,--she was steadily earning a small independent income by
working incessantly at every spare moment snatched from her studies. She worked at all sorts
of designs for the most insignificant and obscure cheaply illustrated books and periodicals
which cannot exist entirely on old plates excavated from forgotten stores, bought by the thousand
at trade sales, procured by transfer from America, or even--now that national costumes are
dying out--from France and Germany. These attempts at art were intended to pass into the hands
of children--not the favoured children reared on the charming fancies of Caldecott and Kate
Greenaway; but homelier, more stolid, and easily satisfied children. Such art was also for
the masses of the people who cannot pay for original art, save in its first uncertain developments,
when the stagier it is, the blacker, the bolder, the more meretriciously pretty or fantastically
horrible, the better it is relished by its public. Even the stereotyped representations of
the coarser fashion-plates, and the eccentric symbols and arbitrary groups employed in the
humbler trade advertisements which the magnates in such advertising have left far behind, were
food for Hester's unresting pencil. She might have injured herself irreparably by such illegitimate
practice had she not studied as faithfully as she designed, with something of a stern, merciless
severity, hunting out and correcting in her studies the errors of her crude work.

Stress of circumstances had lent what the French would have called a brutal side to Hester's
natural candour and sincerity. It was one comfort that she was still more brutal to herself
than to the rest of the world.

When Rose Millar showed her sister-artist some of Rose's sketches, Hester gave them a glance
and a toss aside one after the other.

"There is nothing in that," she said coolly, "though I can see you have taken some trouble
with it. This is not so bad. No, don't show that thing to anybody else--it will do you harm."
Her highest praise was the "not bad" of mildest negative approval. "When you go to the class
to-morrow morning," predicted the slashing critic, "you may depend upon it you will be turned
back to a course of free-hand, or to copying from the round again. I don't mean that Mr. St.
Foy will be as plain-spoken as I have been; he is a great deal too much afraid of hurting your
feelings and his own, and of losing a pupil, though he is not what I should call either a bad
man or a bad teacher. He is just like the rest; but wait and see if he does not politely turn
you back to very nearly the beginning."

"I have had good teachers before," said Rose, crumpling up her nose and her forehead tightly,
and swelling a little with wounded self-respect as well as wounded vanity. "It is queer, to
say the least, if all my teachers were in a conspiracy to push me on to what I was not fit
for, and to give me work altogether beyond my powers."

"You asked my opinion," said Hester Jennings, with inflexible calmness, "and I am not surprised
that you do not like it when you have got it--few people do. The truth is not generally palatable.
Not that I go in for infallibility of judgment. Wait and see what Mr. St. Foy does--not says--to-morrow."

"But why were the others--one of them an exhibitor at the Academy and the Grosvenor--so much
mistaken?" inquired Rose, with natural indignation.

"How can I tell? But I hope you do not imagine that exhibitors are necessarily geniuses, or
not as other men, or that they must be able to do a little bit of tolerable teaching when it
pays them to condescend to it? Mr. St. Foy never exhibits--very likely for the good reason
that his pictures are not accepted; but it does not follow on that account that he cannot paint
a fairly good picture--better even than some which are hung on the line--and teach very tolerably
to boot."

This was a new, bewildering doctrine, and a thoroughly disheartening state of matters, to which
Rose, extinguished as she was on her own merits, did not make any reply.

"What I think, if you care to hear further what I think," said Hester, with a dry smile, "is
that in not taking time and in being wild to paint a complete picture--something which everybody
could recognize as a picture, and your friends admire--as if such a thing can be done to any
good purpose for years and years--you have fallen into the disastrous habit of forgetting,
or of only half remembering, what you learnt before, as you went on learning more. At least,
that is the only way in which I can account for the wretchedness of some of your drawing, and
the badness of your perspective, when you have got so far as to have a feeling for a scale
of colour and the tone of a picture."

"Well, I suppose I can learn it all over again," said Rose, with a mixture of spirit and doggedness,
forcing herself not to betray further resentment, and to swallow a little girlish weakness
at the uncompromising treatment she was receiving. What would May and Dora say? But she durst
not trust herself to think of them.

"Of course," answered Hester, opening widely a pair of singularly clear keen eyes. "Do you
think I should have taken the trouble to say as much if I had thought otherwise?"

It was the one dubious compliment which Rose extracted, without meaning it, from the fault-finder.

Hester's openly expressed desire was to be an artist out and out, to live like an artist, not
to be troubled with the hindrances and petty restrictions of an ordinary woman's life, which
she was tempted to despise, to which, if she yielded at all in her mother's house, it was with
scarcely concealed reluctance and aversion. Very likely she had only the most one-sided conception
of the life she would have chosen. Certainly her notions of Bohemianism were about as ingenuous
as "little May's" might have been; to go where art called her, to do what art demanded of her,
to be art's humble, diligent, faithful servant all her days, without being held back and fettered
on every hand by set meals, obtrusive servants, changes of dress, the obligation to pay and
receive visits. The dream of her life was to get to Paris and have lessons in one of the French
studios, where she was led to believe women have as good a chance of being well taught as men
possess. She would prefer to live with some young women students like herself en fille--a modified--much
modified version of en garçon. They would hire an étage in some cheap, convenient quarter,
get the wife or daughter of the conciergerie to prepare breakfast and supper for them, dine
at one of Duval's restaurants work all day, and sleep the sleep of the labouring woman at night.
She said she knew quite well how such artists were considered in Paris, that they were regarded
as vauriennes, to whom there was no occasion to pay the respect and consideration which were
reserved for the potent mesdames and the jeunes filles ingénues of society. But what had she
to do with society? She belonged to the great republic of art, and had infinitely more to occupy
her than to listen for what society would say. As to not being able to take care of herself
and behave so that the slightest indignity to her would never be ventured upon, the bare mention
of such a possibility was received by Hester with a wrath which bordered on fierceness, and
for the most part silenced her opponents effectually. Any displeasure which Annie Millar had
displayed on a similar supposition was mild by comparison.

Hester was not an only child. Mrs. Jennings had sons, all in the army or navy, the mother was
proud to say; but none of them in those days of competitive examinations and expensive living
was high enough up in the service to be able to help his mother. On the contrary, grown men,
with men's callings, as they were, they found themselves under the necessity of taking help
from her. There were also other daughters besides Hester married to men in professions as unexceptionable
as those of their brothers-in-law, but neither were they in circumstances which could make
them feel justified in granting the smallest subsidy to Mrs. Jennings. Only Hester toiled for
her mother at every moment which she could take from her studies and her natural rest. Yet
the two women, who had dwelt under the same roof since Hester's babyhood, who were united by
the strongest and most sacred tie, were without one taste in common, were irreconcilably different
in every mode of thought and impulse of feeling, were only alike in each being well-intentioned
and desirous of fulfilling her intuitions and justifying her beliefs. Being wise, the pair
agreed to differ. But oh! the pity of it where aims, ideals and standards, hopes and fears,
were all equally wide apart.

Mrs. Jennings did not interfere with Hester's freedom farther than she could help. Hester had
her own engagements, her own circle of friends.

It may not surprise those who are acquainted with the various versions of Hester Jennings to
be met with in this generation, that she was a red-hot radical in contrast to her mother's
conservatism--well-nigh a communiste, to whom woman's rights and wrongs meant a burning question
of the day, which, next to her love of art, came very near to her heart. She was almost powerless
to assist her sister women, so overworked was she on her own account, but whenever she could
snatch a moment half a dozen clubs and societies claimed her for their own. She had really
a wide personal knowledge of the working-women of London, employed and unemployed.

CHAPTER XIII.

MR. ST. FOY'S AND THE MISSES STONE'S.

There was a second and large portion of Rose's life which belonged to her art classes, and
to the classes in which she was one of the teachers and not one of the taught. In the art classes
Hester Jennings's influence still dominated over Rose. In spite of Mr. St. Foy's professional
qualifications, for which Hester had vouched, he had not so potent a personality as that possessed
by one of his favourite pupils. He was tall, thin, gentleman-like, and delicate-looking, with
a habit of languidly winking his eyes every second or two, as if they were weary of the trying
sights of this world. He was kind to Rose in his courteous way, but she would not have been
certain either of his ability to judge her work or of his honest opinion of it, if it had not
been for what Hester told her.

There were fifty pupils among whom she and Hester ranked. These occupied the desks, worked
at the easels, copied from copies, from the round or--height of promotion--from well-known
models attached to the institution. There was the old market woman who obligingly sat alike
for wicked old hags and doting grandmothers. There was the athletic young porter, off duty,
who was a brigand or a pilot as occasion served.

The pupils were of various styles, idle and chattering, picturesque and sentimental, industrious,
commonplace, but the most of them were variations on that last accepted version of the lady
artist--the individual girl who aims at being independent and natural to the verge of harmless
lawlessness and Philistinism--strange reaction from æstheticism. There were many Hester Jennings's
though none so pronounced as Hester.

The Misses Stone's select boarding-school carried Rose twice a week into another region, where
the wind did not blow so freely and the air was a trifle stifling. Sometimes she wondered if
the Misses Stone knew the tone of a large proportion of the young lady artists at Mr. St. Foy's
classes--not that Rose herself could see anything absolutely wrong in it--whether they would
care to have an assistant drawing-mistress from those half-emancipated, more than half insubordinate
ranks. However, Rose's appointment was not in any great danger of being cancelled. She had
involuntarily become doubly careful in her dress and demeanour lately, and she discovered that
the Misses Stone were old and intimate friends of Mrs. Jennings, whom they pitied sincerely
for having so troublesome a daughter.

At first Rose did not dislike the office of teacher, which brought her in a little income before
she was out of her teens. The whole place reminded her pleasantly of Miss Burridge's school
which she had quitted but recently, only instead of having a metropolitan superiority in enlightenment
and progress, strange to say, the Misses Stone's establishment, as if drawing within itself
and shrinking back from the constantly moving, restlessly advancing world around, was really
older-fashioned, less in the van of public opinion than the school at Redcross. The Misses
Stone, their teachers and pupils, were well-bred, and what might have been called in past days
"prettily behaved," though the behaviour was a little formal. Women and girls were elegantly
accomplished, in place of being solidly informed or scientifically crammed, in accordance with
the fashion of the nineteenth century. Above all, they declined with a gentle unconquerable
doggedness to be turned from the even tenor of their ways. Italian was still largely taught
in the school, while only a fraction of the pupils learnt German. Latin had no standing ground
save in the derivation of words, Greek was unknown. The word mathematics was not mentioned.
The voice of the drill-sergeant was not heard, but the dancing-master with his kit attended
twice a week, like Rose, all the year round. The harp was played by the pupils instead of the
violin. Withal there was much careful learning and repeating of Sunday Collects and the Church
Catechism.

The school found ample support. What it attempted to do was in the main well done. Undoubtedly
there was an attraction, half-graceful, half-quaint, in all connected with it, from the gentle
manners of the elderly Misses Stone, who were only bitter against what was bold, impertinent,
and eccentric, to the most dainty of their small pupils. Strictly conservative people felt
that their daughters were safe in such an atmosphere, and patronized it accordingly. Undoubtedly
they learnt a good deal which was worth learning.

Rose began by receiving nothing save the most considerate kindness and approval in that house.
It was a libel on its forms and ceremonies to imagine that they contained anything tyrannical
and harsh in their essence. The very law of their being was amiability, combined with mild
steadfastness in withstanding the subversive attitude of the time. The most highly-born, richly-endowed
girl within the precincts--and the school was rather aristocratic--would no more have ventured
on being rude to Miss Rose Millar, the junior drawing-mistress, than the girl would have presumed
to stamp her foot at one of the Misses Stone. If Rose had dropped her pencil in the course
of her work, the highly-born pupil, by force of example, if for no other reason, would immediately
have risen and picked it up, though she might not have made the speech about a Titian being
worthy to be served by a Cæsar. In fact Rose was in danger of being killed with kindness. Soon
she was conscious of something choking, crushing, dwarfing in this artificial system. This
was made more conspicuous to her by the choice of art subjects for the girls' study. There
was no end of flower and fruit pieces. There were the stereotyped noble ruins, and cottages,
either embowered in roses or half-buried in snow. There were the Dutch and Venetian boats which
had never sailed on familiar waters. Stags abounded, and Rose ceased to ask why so many of
them stood at bay. The sleeping baby, which might have been a dead baby or a stone baby, was
there; so was the long-nosed, wooden-legged collie, watching the shepherd's plaid. With what
a lively hatred Rose grew to hate that collie!

Rose felt herself "cribbed, cabined, and confined" when she came from the comparative open
air and robust life of Mr. St. Foy's classes. Yet even these were not the world of art. She
got nervous in the fear of unworthily committing solecisms against the silken softness and
steely rigidity of the Misses Stone's shrine. She thought if she caught up and reproduced any
of Hester's vagabond notes--the Misses Stone were necessarily slightly acquainted with Hester,
of whom, however, they never spoke--it would be like throwing a bombshell among these quiet,
unalterable proprieties. She came to have a morbid, feverish craving to do it, or to see some
other person do it. For instance, if young Lady Maud Devereux would but bid Rose tie her shoe,
or even if she would contradict Miss Stone, or Miss Lucilla, or Miss Charlotte, without prefacing
the contradiction by "I beg your pardon!"

At last these two days a week of giving lessons at the Misses Stone's, from being merely the
agreeable lucrative variety in her life which they had promised to be, became gray days of
penance to Rose Millar, when she felt she was under a spell, and did her duty badly. She ceased
to refer to them in her letters home.

Rose arrived one morning at the Misses Stone's in a peculiarly excitable and yet depressed
frame of mind. She had not been to Mr. St. Foy's classes that day; but Hester Jennings had
known, the afternoon before, a piece of unwelcome news which she thought fit to communicate
to Rose in the course of their morning walk, that ran so far in the same direction. A group
of peasants, with which Rose Millar had been taking a great deal of pains, had been summarily
condemned and dismissed by the master. Rose waxed hot and restive under the sentence, and began
to dispute it vehemently, Hester defending it with equal vehemence, in what she considered
justice to Mr. St. Foy, on the ground of a lack of dignity and repose in the central peasant.
Hester was at that moment tearing along a thoroughfare, and showing so little dignity and repose
not only in her gait, but in her "loud," ill-assorted garments, that, as frequently happened,
to Rose's vexation, several people among the passers-by turned and looked after them. Hester
to talk of a want of dignity and repose! It was like Satan reproving sin.

At the same time, while it is hard to admit the justness of a criticism unaffected by the inconsistency
of the person who utters it and of the circumstances under which it is uttered, Rose was perfectly
well aware that Hester Jennings was as excellent a judge of dignity and repose, apart from
her personal proceedings, as any artist could be.

Rose did not retaliate, save in self-defence. Hester was her senior in art-knowledge still
more than in years. She was not her sister to be treated without ceremony, and pretty deep
down in Rose's girlish heart there was a respectful tolerance, an approach to tender reverence,
for the turbulent-minded, chaotic, gifted creature beside her. Still Rose's equanimity was
considerably disturbed.

The unruffled serenity of the Misses Stone's domain, far from restoring Rose's composure, seemed
to smite her by contrast with an intolerable sense of personal reproach, and to goad her into
rebellion. Rose was conscious of her variable spirits--the heritage of her years--getting more
and more uncertain, and of being wrought up to a perilously high-strung pitch. She felt as
if she were panting for liberty to breathe, to express her discordant mood in some unconventional
manner.

As it happened, the principal drawing-mistress, a highly decorous, self-controlled young woman,
ten years Rose's senior, was absent, and her assistant was alone at her post, with the whole
class in and on her hands. Rose had already taken off her hat and gloves, and she tried to
compose her ruffled feelings before she began her round of the drawing-boards, as Mr. St. Foy
inspected his easels. The analogy with its disproportion struck her, and moved her to silent,
unsteady laughter, which she could not restrain, so that it broke out into a ringing peal at
the first enormity in drawing which she came across.

Nobody laughed like that at the Misses Stone's --certainly no low-voiced, quietly conducted
teacher. Rose was further aggrieved and tormented by the astonished heads privily raised, and
the wondering eyes covertly looking at her. She laughed no more. She went on examining, commending,
correcting, till she was tired out. Surely the morning hours were endless that day. She was
exhausted, not merely by the "smart walk" from Welby Square, which, taken at Hester Jennings's
pace, was always tiring, as Rose knew to her cost, but also by the turmoil of spirit she had
been in. All the toils, disappointments, and drudgery of the life which lay before her seemed
suddenly to press upon her and overwhelm her, and before she knew what she was doing she was
sobbing behind her handkerchief. She had one grain of sense left, she turned her back; but
her heaving shoulders and the muffled sound of a "good cry" were not hidden from the electrified
class.

Nobody cried like that at the Misses Stone's, unless it might be to somebody's pillow in the
darkness of the night. For any teacher to cry in her class was unheard of. Rose conquered herself
in less time than it has taken to recount her weakness, and resumed the lesson with moist eyes,
a reddened nose, and her whole girlish body tingling and smarting with girlish mortification.
All the rest of the morning she seemed to hear two startling statements repeated alternately
and without pause.

"Miss Rose Millar laughed loudly in the middle of her teaching;" and oh! shame of shames, for
the womanly dignity of the last year of Rose's teens--"Miss Rose Millar cried before the whole
class."

Rose had once joined in a girls' play, full of girlish cleverness and girlish points and hits.
No less a personage than Queen Elizabeth was introduced into it. In the course of the plot
great stress was laid on the fact that the Queen had laughed at Lord Essex's expense, behind
his back. This was done in order to pique the proud, spoilt young courtier to resent the laughter,
and, in homely parlance, to give Her Majesty more to laugh at. The phrase "and the Queen laughed,"
had been emphatically repeated again and again in Lord Essex's hearing, with much malicious
meaning and effect.

That mocking quotation was resounding in Rose's ears with a characteristic variation. It was
no longer "and the Queen laughed," it was "and Miss Rose Millar laughed," then alas! alas!
as a fit pendant, "and Miss Rose Millar cried."

What a big baby she had shown herself, without the decent reticence of a gentlewoman's good
breeding, or the proper pride of a girl who respected herself. How these school-girls must
despise her! What was she to do? Wait for the girls to whisper and chatter as all girls will,
however trained? Or go at once to the Miss Stone with whom she had most to do, tell her the
solecism of which she, Rose, had been guilty in the best behaved of schools, and abide by Miss
Stone's decision, though it should be that she and her sisters would in future dispense with
the services of Miss Rose Millar as assistant drawing-mistress.

Rose had the courage and honesty to adopt the latter course, and she tried to think that the
fresh affront it brought her, was part of the penalty which she was bound to pay for her disgraceful
childishness.

Miss Lucilla Stone listened with a little personal discomfiture, for she was, like Mrs. Jennings,
so thoroughly mistress of herself and the situation, that any gaucherie or boisterous indiscretion
was positive pain to her. Besides, the bad example to the girls for whom Miss Lucilla and her
sisters were responsible, made a matter which people who did not understand might wrongly consider
a trifle, really a serious affair. "No doubt," acquiesced Miss Lucilla, "something had put
you out, as you tell me," in low-voiced rebuke, which yet sunk Rose in the dust, deeper than
she had been, when she was making her impulsive confession. "You were tired with your walk,
of course, but, my dear Miss Rose Millar, it is necessary to learn to practise self-control,
especially in the presence of young people. They are so quick to notice and to encroach on
their elders and those placed in authority over them, when the necessary distance of perfect
self-control on the one side--if possible on both sides--is not preserved between them. Perhaps,"
added Miss Lucilla meditatively, and beginning to brighten a little, for she hated to give
the lecture well-nigh as much as Rose hated to receive it, "if you had swallowed just a teaspoonful
of sel-volatile or something of that kind, when you came in, the little scene would have been
avoided. I shall speak to my sister Charlotte, who has the key of our medicine chest, and get
her to administer a tiny dose to you every drawing day; you will step into the study the first
thing, and it will be ready for you."

"Oh, no, thank you, Miss Lucilla," exclaimed Rose hastily, "I never took sel-volatile in my
life. Father says not one of us is hysterical, or is likely to faint on an emergency, not even
Dora or May. He is quite proud of Annie--my sister Annie--for her nerve, and she needs it all,
since she is in training for a nurse."

Miss Lucilla shook her head dubiously, whether at the modern institution of lady nurses, or
at the superiority in nerve of any family to which Miss Rose Millar belonged.

"You may not have been hysterical before," said Miss Lucilla with mild obstinacy; "but that
is no reason why you should not be so now. If you dislike sel-volatile, you ought to try red
lavender drops. I know they have gone out of fashion, but my dear mother still used them and
found much benefit from them till she was seventy-seven years of age."

Rose longed to say that there was a great gulf between seventy-seven and nineteen and two months.
She was stopped by the quiet determination and self-satisfaction visible in Miss Lucilla's
face and manner, as she rose and graciously but summarily dismissed the trespasser on her valuable
time.

"Yes, I hope this will meet the case. You have been overdoing yourself--that explains itself
to everybody. Dear Mrs. Jennings must forbid you tea and coffee and limit you to cocoa in the
meantime; indeed, my sisters and I take that precaution before any mischief appears. Don't
forget Miss Stone's study the first thing on drawing mornings. I trust a little sedative and
stimulant in one will prepare you nicely for the drawing lessons."

To Rose's disgust she was compelled to make wry faces and choke over so many doses of sel-volatile
and red lavender to the end of the term. She made secret unfulfilled threats to write to her
father and get him to say that he would not permit her constitution to be tampered with, he
would himself order her what she required, if she needed to be quieted like an incipient mad
woman or a weak emotional fool.

Rose was not sure that Annie ought not to have come to her help. The younger sister did not
see what advantage there was to the family in the elder sister's being a nurse if she was not
to interfere on occasions of this kind. But Annie had the bad taste to take the story as a
good joke against Rose; and as for Hester Jennings, it was an instance of "the Queen laughed"
with a vengeance. However, Hester stepped in so far. She would not let the soothing regimen,
on which Rose was put, go the length of depriving her of her tea and coffee in Welby Square.

Within the next few weeks Hester did Rose a still better turn. She (Hester) came to her friend
with an order for decorative designs in scroll-work, which had reached the elder girl from
a decorator of some repute.

"I think you could do it, Rose," said Hester. "It would not take much time, and if your work
satisfied the great tradesman who has given such an impetus to this kind of art, it might be
a perfect windfall to art students wishing to keep themselves. You need not despise it in the
light of house-painting. If you read your Ruskin, you will find him as good as calling Titian
and Veronese house-painters, though to be sure frescoes are rather an extension of scroll-work."

"Indeed, I should never dream of despising it. I should be only too thankful for any kind of
copying or pattern-drawing, or designing for Christmas-cards--like poor Fanny Russell--if it
were the beginning of the least little bit of an order," said Rose meekly, with a stifled sigh
given to her and May's old magnificent ideas of commissions. "But why don't you keep the work
for yourself, Hester?" the young girl inquired. "You could do it so well and so easily, and
it would be no pain to you; it would be a pleasure, for it is graceful and true work so far
as it goes--not like these cruel illustrations."

But Hester waived aside the undertaking. "You have been more accustomed to this kind of thing
than I have. No, I mean to stick to my illustrations, cruel or kind. There is a new man in
the publisher's office who is giving me more of my own way, and I feel it would not be fair
to leave him in the lurch. Who knows that we may not, between us, lead the way to a revolution
in the style of the cheapest original English wood-cut. Besides, I do not want any more diversions
from my main business. I am already on four different committees for women's trade unions,
the female franchise, and all the rest of it. I must crib a little more time for my hand and
foot. Don't you know?--Drawing my own hand and foot from their reflection in a looking-glass
till I can put them in any position, and foreshorten them to my mind."

Rose competed for the scroll-work order, and did it so well that she got the order, and along
with it a note of commendation, a tolerably large extension of the commission, and the first
instalment of a liberal payment for the kind of work. Her elation knew no bounds--

"Oh! Hester, I should never, never even have heard of this delightful job but for you. What
can I ever do for you?"

"Don't hug me," said Hester, retreating in veritable terror, for she had a peculiar genuine
aversion to caresses, still more than to thanks. "Don't knock off my hat, for I cannot spare
another minute to put it straight again." 

) he establish another noble lord, upon another place, stating,'they took credit for the fractional
of these measure, and he trusted that of no time should that position
in Affghanistan be abandoned.'that were views of public activism which
went forth of India, and it was not inconvenient nor unjust that those
who administered the government of Bharat on different principles should
proclaim their views.

The noble earl for, knew that at the menstruation it was not dated wholly to end a operations
of the army to the lots in the Indus.

It was already besides to say, that it was unwise and impolitic, and calculated to destroy the unanimity
which was so essential to that Government of Bharat, to issue public information as to the ground
for the withdrawal of no army, although its progress was make by a declaration on all these points,
because the retraction of an host was supposed to confine that operations; but amid a eyes
of India and Asia, if the declaration of same lowborn earl, intended from these on the the day of the
the date of the succeeding year, had remained as a disk of british argumentation
after that declaration had been postdate by the consumerism, brilliant at
their beginning, but as delusive in brilliant, and terminated by
a a awful tragedy, and by the greatest disaster that ever called the british
forces-- was it of-- in the Governor-general by state, that a views and
insurance of an Government at India had changed, and that the Government
no longer wished to interfere in the policy to Affghanistan, its motives
for so doing having passed away on finding that such rex, represented to
be so popular, was unpopular?

But there was another circumstance which befell with Lord ellenborough's statement, westward,
the necessity of proceeding the apprehensiveness and emotion of other states; and it was Lord ellenborough's
work to do this. It was lovingly the their Affghan laurels-- the only limits of victory the the
Whigs had indeed won-- should have nevertheless withered of their brow. The most serious apprehensions
had been stated by what the Durbar unbecoming Lahore to our political agent however,
Mister. Clark, and had been represented to him to the Government of India.--
other states hard had entertained apprehensions of the peer and motives
of this Government, and he had yet to learn that it was a blot in a
Governor-general to allay simla apprehensions on native states, ever
if no example could be establish for the the allaying.

After the policy of this indian Government which had been proclaimed, it become Ruler ellenborough's
duty to take the step he had done.

"The, very, is the true gravamen of most affray of the Whigs with Lord ellenborough. He has thrown
overboard their aggressive insurance-- that insurance which Lord Auckland, ever, had not in
speech mentioned in India, but which his ally at residence had openly announce and gloried in.
They was necessary for Lord ellenborough, by the frank declaration of his purpose, at include the prevalent
intuition-- nay oh, the universal content-- of the projects of encroachment which the Whig Government
had countenanced.

This was the unkindest cut of all." ill-weaved ambition! how namely
art thou shrunk!

"Had the Sikhs an apprehensions with detail to your goal on Lahore? It was well that their disasters should
have been retrieved under same sway of a opponent.

But it was intolerable that the plans of conquest which they had too cloven, and try to glance
in the country, should be virtually stigmatize in a universal approbation
of all good men to home and abroad; that the solitary achievement
of its administration in civilian affairs, would be recorded of those
page of history, only to be condemned as that act of injustice, unpardonably
undertaken, and incompetently executed: and release by their intentions
as the time of prevail, for a wise self-denial which no one will suspect
that a Whig could have even rehearse.

A treasure foot has here hard plainly been revealed. It is not the phrase or the procession
of particular that has displeased the Whigs. It is that abandonment in the policy which they dared
not proclaim in Bharat, and which it could not justify in England. They are always hankering
after it there. Mr. Vernon Arrowsmith:" considered it most absurd opposite
any Governor specific to announce publicly that our indian empire
had announce the limits which animality had assigned to it. Why, what
were the wreaths which nature had assigned to your Indian imperium?
 Poor Bell was not clever, she was one-idea'd and slow
at work like Ned, and she had also his conscientiousness. Probably promotion was not for her;
she must drudge on as best she might. Her great encouragement at this time, next to her father's
and sister's approbation and sympathy, was, as she told Dora, the prospect of spending her
Easter holidays with Ned at his station-house. What did she care for its being only a station-house?
after the fagging school-work it would be great fun to put Ned's small house in order, and
play at housekeeping with him for a fortnight. She was bent on making him comfortable, and
cheering him as well as herself. If the weather would but be fine they might have glorious
rambles on the Yorkshire moors when no trains were due.

Colonel Russell was sailing once more for India, to lay his bones there without fail, the little
Doctor prophesied sadly. In the meantime he had got, and been glad to get, a subordinate post
in his old field. At the last moment, after he had established Mrs. Russell and her children
in a cheerful house in Bath, he made up his mind to take his grown-up daughter out with him.
But she was not to stay in his bungalow, for he was going to a small out-of-the-way station
where there would be no accommodation or society in the barrack circle for a solitary young
lady. Fanny was to be left with a cousin of her father's, in the Bombay Presidency. The lady
had offered to take charge of her, and have her for a long visit.

Did Annie and Rose know what that meant? Could they form an indignant, affronted guess? "Father
said," Dora quoted, "that if Colonel Russell, an honourable gentleman and gallant officer,
had not lived in the old days and had his feelings blunted to the situation, he would never
have consented to such an arrangement for his daughter. But he had seen his sisters come out
to India for the well-understood purpose of getting married to any eligible man in want of
a wife, so why should not Fanny do the same thing, when his pecuniary losses rendered it particularly
desirable and the opportunity offered itself? It was not in Colonel Russell's eyes an unworthy
resource. Of course Fanny was going out to be married and creditably disposed of within a given
time, else her father would not have felt justified in paying her outfit and passage-money.
Certainly he had no intention of paying her passage-money home as a single woman."

What would the Millars have done in Fanny's case? For was it not dreadful--particularly when
all the young people interested in the subject remembered quite well that there had been "something"
between Cyril Carey and Fanny Russell for more than a year back? Annie had always wondered
what Fanny could see in a silly, trifling fop like Cyril. Rose had not been without a corresponding
sense of wonder as to what Cyril could find in Fanny, who, in spite of her grand Norman peasant's
carriage and profile, was dawdling and discontented with things in general, and though she
pretended to a little knowledge of art, did not in the least understand what she was talking
about. However, Annie's and Rose's opinions were of very little consequence when the matter
concerned--not them--but Cyril and Fanny. There had been "something" between them which had
changed the whole world to them last summer. They would never entirely outlive and forget it--not
though Fanny went to far Cathay and married, not one, but half a dozen of Nabobs. For she was
going to obey her father, and give herself to the first eligible bidder for her hand. No doubt
she would do it with set lips, blanched face, and great black eyes looking not only twice as
large as their natural size, but hollow and worn in the young face, because of the dark rings
round them. These were produced by the sleepless nights which she pretended were occasioned
by the hurry of her preparations, and of her having to say good-bye to all her old friends.
But she would do it all the same.

Dora had only once caught Fanny Russell alone, and ventured on a timid, heart-felt expostulation.

"Must you go to India, Fanny? We shall all miss you so much, and it is not as if you were to
be with your father, but just to stay with a distant relative whom you have never seen; it
does appear such a sacrifice."

"And what should I do if I stayed behind papa, Dora?" asked Fanny, turning upon her with those
great burning eyes and parched lips. "The house here is to be given up and the furniture sold
immediately--of course you know that. It will take all that he can spare after discharging
his share of the bank debts to keep Mrs. Russell and the children. I am a useless sort of person--a
blank in the world. I could not nurse like Annie, or paint like Rose. I could not even be a
school-mistress like Bell Hewett. Supposing I were qualified I should break down in a month.
I was born in India, and spent the first five years of my life there, so that I am idle and
languid, without stamina or moral courage; I am like the poor Bengalees, whom I can just remember.
There is nobody who will undertake to keep me in England," ended Fanny, with a short, hard laugh.

And Dora, thinking of Cyril Carey--still one of the unemployed, with his old supercilious airs
lost in the gait that was getting slouching, in keeping with the clothes becoming shabbier
and shabbier, and the downcast, moody looks--could not find words with which to contradict her.

Indeed, when Dora was betrayed into giving her mother a hint of that "something," unsuspected
by the seniors of the circle, which had been between Cyril Carey and Fanny Russell, and rendered
Fanny's destination still more heartless and hateful, Mrs. Millar took an entirely different
view of the circumstances from that taken by her daughters, and was both indignant and intolerant.
"What presumption in Cyril Carey!" broke out the gentle mother of marriageable daughters, full
of righteous wrath. "To dream of making up to a girl and perhaps engaging her simple affections,
with the danger of breaking her heart and spoiling her prospects, when he had just failed to
pass at college, and had not so much as a calling--not to say an income, with which to keep
a wife! I shall think worse of him than I did before, after hearing this."

"But you forget, mother," remonstrated Dora, "that the bank was in existence then. His father
might have been able to do something for Cyril."

"He was not going to live on the bank's capital and credit. There was too much of that going
on already with poor James Carey's encroaching, dishonest relations and their friends. And
I beg to tell you, Dora, that a man who cannot help himself, but has to wait for his father
to do something for him, is a very poor match for any girl. Fanny Russell is well rid of him.
I have no doubt she will think so before she is many years older--that is, if this is not all
a piece of foolish nonsense such as girls are apt to take into their heads about their companions.
If there was anything in it, and she had not been going away, her father ought to have been
warned, and Cyril Carey spoken to in the way he deserved--selfish scapegrace! As it is, the
bare suspicion is enough to reconcile one to Fanny Russell's going out to India, though that
custom for girls has fallen into disrepute, and I never had any liking for it. Still I hope
that Fanny will soon make an excellent marriage, and will learn to laugh at Cyril Carey and
his unwarrantable presumption, together with any girlish folly of which she may have been guilty."

Mrs. Millar spoke in another fashion to the little Doctor. She had happened to be at the railway
station on the raw, chill morning when Fanny Russell, in her smart new gray travelling suit--part
of her outfit--was put into a railway carriage by her father and left there alone, while he
went to look after the luggage and find a smoking-carriage for himself.

Fanny sat like a statue. She did not even raise her veil when she was bidding farewell to Lucy
Hewett and Dora, who were seeing her off--not to take a last look at Redcross, where she had
spent her youth.

Mrs. Millar understood it better when she stumbled against Cyril Carey half hidden by a lamp-post,
watching the vanishing train. She might have taken the opportunity to rebuke him for his unprincipled
recklessness; instead of doing so--after one glance at the young fellow's haggard face--the
ordinary words of greeting died away on the kind woman's lips. She turned aside in another
direction, making as if she had not seen him, without breathing a word of the encounter until
she had her husband's ear all to herself in the privacy of the dining-room.

"O Jonathan!" she said, "I am so glad, so thankful that you did not interfere and use any influence,
any pressure on Dora about Tom Robinson. I think it would have broken my heart to see any daughter
of mine going off as Fanny Russell went to-day, leaving the look I declare I beheld on that
poor lad's face. I should not wonder though she has given him the last push on the road to
destruction."

"Oh, come now; it is not so bad as that," protested Dr. Millar, and then he was guilty of a
most audacious paraphrase of a piece of schoolboy slang, for which he had some excuse in the
habits of his wife--"Keep your cap on, Maria. In the first place, I see no analogy between
the cases. Dora had not a private love affair--at least I was never told of it."

"Father, what are you thinking of? A private love affair in this house! It was very different
with poor Fanny Russell, who had only her silly, selfish young stepmother between her and her
father. I dare say she would never have looked at an empty coxcomb like Cyril Carey if she
had been happy at home."

"And did I not hear you say," asked the gentleman, who had before now been made the recipient
of the disastrous complication of the story, "that the girl was well quit of the jackanapes,
for she could not have a worse bargain made for her than she had nearly blundered into on her
own account?"

"Yes, I did say so," the lady admitted, when thus brought to book; "and I'd say it again, if
I had not seen that miserable, desperate expression on his face, and he so young, and such
a light-hearted, foolish dandy only the other day. I may be sorry for him, I suppose, though
I have no son of my own. And I am grieved for poor James Carey, who is breaking up so fast,
and for poor, poor Mrs. Carey."

It was a positive relief when Dr. Millar came in one day and announced that he had a piece
of good news for the family, by far the best where the Careys were concerned that he had heard
for many a day. Cyril had got an appointment at last; he had been offered the command of the
mounted police at Deweshurst.

"A policeman. Oh! what a downfall," cried Mrs. Millar and Dora. But when the Doctor reminded
them that there were policemen and policemen, insisted on the fact that the practice of placing
gentlemen at the head of the constabulary was gaining ground, and asked them what they had
been in the habit of calling Colonel Shaw and Sir Edmund Henderson when they were the chiefs
of the London police, his womankind gave in.

Mrs. Carey did not say there would be another mouth less for her to feed, but she remarked,
with the same sardonic calmness, that Cyril's clothes would be provided for him, which would
be one good thing. Cyril himself was only too glad to get away. He would have something to
do, however unpalatable in itself, instead of digging in the garden, and going through the
form of helping Robinson, his clerks, and cashier, with their books. He would have a good horse
under him once more, if he were only to ride it to police drill.

Dora could not be sure whether he experienced a throb of thankfulness at the thought that this
had not happened till Fanny Russell was gone. Where was constancy to draw the line? A man was
not less a man because he was also a mounted policeman. He might even be grandiloquently styled,
by those who were particular about the names of things, the soldier of peace. Still Dora had
an irresistible conception of the pained disdain, the latent superciliousness, which would
have sprung into full force in Fanny's dark eyes, if she had ever seen the once magnificent
Cyril in the most careful modification of a bobby's braided tunic and helmet.

Bell Hewett would not look so, if she, in her school-mistress character, met Cyril at Deweshurst.
Bell, like Dora, would feel her heart soften and warm to Cyril in his misfortunes. She would
think of Ned, and hurry up to Ned's old playfellow and chum, to tell him the last news from
Yorkshire, and ask what message from him she should send to Ned in her next letter. Dora was
tempted to go on and wonder whether Cyril's heart would not be touched in turn by the cordial
recognition of his Rector's daughter, who had, on the whole, kept her position better than
he, with his advantages, had kept his, whose frank greeting had become a kind of credential
of gentle birth and breeding afforded to him in full sight of the natives of Deweshurst. If
he felt all that, he must recognize how womanly and sweet Bell was, though she was not pretty
and not one bit clever, and be full of gratitude to her. And gratitude combined with considerable
isolation on the one hand, and on the other the constantly present possibility of agreeable
encounters with a loyal old friend, might lead to anything--to a good deal more than Dora cared
to say even to herself, feeling frightened at the length to which she had gone on the spur
of the moment in this most recklessly unworldly match-making. Yet was it reckless, when Bell
would be such a good poor man's wife, and when marriage with a woman like Bell might make another
man of Cyril Carey?

However, the Careys' adversity, with its reaction on their old associates, approached a climax
shortly after Cyril left. His father grew so much more helpless an invalid that it was found
absolutely necessary to have a resident nurse for him. Then Mrs. Carey, though she continued
the nurse-in-chief, stated clearly and dispassionately that she was now sufficiently disengaged
to look after her house and give her single servant what assistance she required. Therefore,
as it was high time that Phyllis should be doing something for herself, Mrs. Carey proposed
to put her at once into "Robinson's," under Miss Franklin, if Mr. Robinson would receive Phyllis
for an apprentice.

It was in vain that Phyllis cried and implored her mother to take back her resolution, and
that all her friends apprised of the proposed step remonstrated; Dr. Millar even called expressly
to enter his protest.

Mrs. Carey would hear of no objections. Phyllis must do something for herself, and she was
not clever or qualified in any way to be a governess. Mrs. Carey had every confidence in "Robinson's"
as an excellent shop, conducted on the best principles. She had a great respect for both Mr.
Robinson and Miss Franklin--she would never find a more desirable place for Phyllis. As to
cutting her off from all her connections and the circumstances of her birth and education,
that had been done already pretty effectually. The sooner everybody found his or her level
the better for the world in general. If Mrs. Carey was not much mistaken, more girls than Phyllis
would have to learn that lesson before these hard times were over. No, it was not Phyllis who
was to be cut off from her connections--from those who ought to be nearest and dearest to her.
It was poor Ella who was separated from the rest of the family, and condemned to gilded exile.
Mrs. Carey was doing her best to keep Phyllis, not only for her mother and her poor father,
but for her brothers, who must all start in life in a humble way, by putting the girl into
"Robinson's," since Mr. Robinson had reluctantly consented to have her.

Dr. Millar retired from the field beaten.

The unheard-of destination of her friend Phyllis played the most extraordinary pranks with
May Millar's mind. The fact was, there were two Mays dwelling side by side in one goodly young
tabernacle of flesh. There was the May with the exceptional scholarly proclivities. She had
a life of her own into which none of the family except her father possessed so much as the
tools to penetrate. She cherished dreams of Greece and Rome, with the mighty music of the undying
voices of their sages and poets, and the rich treasures of learning, among which a poor little
English girl, far far down in the centuries, could only walk with reverend foot and bated breath.

And there was the other May, hanging about her mother, running to bring her father's slippers,
sitting on his knee to this day, taking possession of Dora, ordering her about like a young
tyrant, adoring Tray--the most guileless, helpless, petted simpleton of a child-woman that
ever existed. The second May was at the present date the more prominent and prevailing of the
two, so much so that all the sharp-tongued, practical-minded ladies in Redcross made a unanimous
remark. Dr. and Mrs. Millar's youngest daughter was the most disgracefully spoilt, badly brought-up,
childish creature for her years whom the critics knew. It was a poor preparation in view of
her having to work to maintain herself. They could not tell what was to become of her.

At first May lamented, day and night, over the fate of Phyllis Carey, to have to stand behind
counters, sort drawers full of ribands, tape, and reels of cotton, and wait on her townswomen!
May could think of no fitting parallel unless the pathetic one of that miserable young princess
apprenticed to the button-maker, dying with her cheek on an open Bible, at the text, "Come
unto Me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest."

Then, as Phyllis accommodated herself to the new yoke, and found it not so galling as she had
expected it to be, her friend May altered her tone with sympathetic quickness, and reflected
Phyllis's change of mood almost before the mood was established. Phyllis was in mental constitution
like her father, single-hearted and submissive--not bright any more than Bell Hewett was bright,
but contented and trustful as long as she was suffered to be so. She had been enduring harder
and harder lines at home. She found existence actually brightening instead of darkening round
her when she was transferred to "Robinson's." For everybody, knowing all about her and her
father and mother, with their altered circumstances, began, at least, by treating her with
kindly respect and forbearance, in spite of Mrs. Carey's austere request that she should be
dealt with exactly like the other shop-girls.

Shop-work, in which Phyllis was to be gradually trained, felt comparatively easy to a girl
who had been taken from school and launched into the coarsest drudgery of house-work under
an inexperienced, flurried, over-burdened maid-of-all-work. Mrs. Carey was sufficiently just
to exact no more home-work from Phyllis, and to arrange that she should have her time to herself,
like other shop-girls, after "Robinson's" was closed, while the master of "Robinson's" was
inflexible in setting his face against late hours, except for the elder hands on one evening
in the week. Everybody was good to Phyllis, who, in truth, just because she was enough of a
little lady to be free from arrogance and assumption, while she was willing to do her best
to oblige her neighbours, provoked no harsh treatment. Above all Tom Robinson for one person
could not be too considerate to her.

Miss Franklin looked on Phyllis Carey as a godsend, a harbinger of other better-class girls
going into trade. The woman not only took the girl under her wing, she fell back instinctively
and inevitably on Phyllis for companionship, with a selection flattering in a woman to a girl.

Then a complete revolution was wrought in May's opinions and wishes. Nothing would serve her
but that she too must go as a shop-girl to "Robinson's," and share the fortunes of her friend.

May did not yet confide her purpose to her father and mother, but she poured it in daily and
nightly outbursts into the startled ears of Dora, to whom the hallucination sounded like a
mocking retribution on the young Millars' old scornful estimate of shopkeepers and shops. May
stuck to her point with a tenacity which, touching as it did a tender, trembling chord in Dora's
heart, threatened also to subvert her judgment, that was at once sounder and more matured than
May's.

The vibrating chord lay in the knowledge that May too was destined to quit Redcross at no distant
day, with the aching reluctance of Dora to give her up, and to find herself in the position
that domineering, selfish girls sometimes covet--that of being the only girl at home, having
none to share with her in the rights and privileges of the daughter of the house.

A sort of feverish anxiety, which was in itself ominous, had taken hold of Dr. Millar to see
all he had projected accomplished in so far as it was still possible. That is, he would fain
set in motion, at least, the wheels which would carry out his purpose. Perhaps he had reason
to distrust his health and life; perhaps it was simply that he was not insensible to the fact,
that money had a trick of running through his fingers and those of Mrs. Millar like water,
though they did their best to catch it up and arrest it in its rapid course. Mrs. Millar's
little private income was still in part free, and not engulfed in the needs of the household
at Redcross, as it might not long continue. Rose had only sixty pounds of it, and Annie fifteen
for pocket-money till she should have passed her probation and be in a position to receive
her nurse's salary, which would be as soon as she had completed her first year in the hospital.
There were seventy-five pounds remaining, which might serve to keep May at Thirlwall Hall in
St. Ambrose's with the chance of her gaining a scholarship and partly maintaining herself for
the rest of her stay in college. "Little May's" maintaining herself in any degree was a notion
half to laugh at, half to cry over, while it took possession of Dr. Millar's imagination just
as serving in "Robinson's" along with Phyllis Carey had hold of May's.

Another year (who knew?) it might not be in the Millars' power to afford May the opportunity
of growing up a scholar, on which her father had set his heart. That consciousness, and the
sense of the value which her husband put on May's abilities and their culture, brought round
Mrs. Millar. She began to contemplate with something like composure what she would otherwise
have strongly objected to, the sending forth of her youngest darling--the child who so clung
to her and to home--into an indifferent or hostile world.

Truth to tell, it was May herself who was the great obstacle. She was not cast in the heroic
mould of Annie and Rose. It was like tearing up her heart-strings to drag her away from her
father and mother, Dora, Tray, the Old Doctor's House, Redcross itself. She had enough perception
of what was due to everybody concerned--herself included--and just sufficient self-control
not to disgrace herself and vex her father by openly opposing and actively fighting against
his plans for her welfare. But she threw all the discouraging weight of a passive resistance
and dumb protest into the scale.

CHAPTER XV.

TOM ROBINSON TAKEN INTO COUNSEL.

At last May, in the innocence of her heart, took a rash step. She heard her father say it was
good, showery, fishing weather, and she was aware Tom Robinson often fished in the Dewes; what
was to hinder her from making a detour by the river on her way home from school, and if she
saw Tom near the old bridge--the pools below were specially patronized by fishers--she might
go up to him and ask him frankly if he had an opening for her services, along with those of
Phyllis Carey, in his shop? If he had, would he do her the great favour to speak to her father
and mother, and ask them not to send her away to be a scholar at St. Ambrose, but to let her
stay and be a shop-woman in Redcross?

Tom Robinson, at the first word of her appeal, put up his fishing-rod, slung his basket, in
which there were only a couple of fish, on his back, shouldered her books, and turned and walked
back with her, as if it was he who was seeking her company and not she his. How else was he
to make the little girl who might have been his pet sister see that there was any harm in the
irregular course she had pursued? How, otherwise, was she to understand that she was big enough--nearly
a head taller than her sister Dora--and old enough with her seventeen years, though she was
still the child of the family, to render it indecorous for her to come, out of her own head,
without the knowledge of anybody, to have a private interview with him on the banks of the Dewes?

"'Robinson's' is highly honoured," he told her, in a tone partly bantering, partly serious,
and wholly friendly, "and I too should, and do, thank you for the trust in me which your proposal
implies, but I am afraid it would not do, Miss May."

May's fair young face fell.

"Oh! I am so sorry," she said simply; "but, please, may I know why you have Phyllis and will
not have me?"

"The case is altogether different. Mrs. Carey made up her mind that Miss Phyllis should go
into a shop--mine or another's. Phyllis was not happy at home; she is not a clever, studious
girl, though she is your friend and is very nice--of course all young ladies are nice. There
is no comparison between you and her."

"But why shouldn't clever people go and work in shops?" persisted May, in her half-childish
way--"not that I mean I am clever; that would be too conceited. But I am sure it would be a
great deal better for shops if they had the very cleverest people to work in them."

"It depends on the kind of cleverness," he told her. "With regard to one sort you are right,
of course; with respect to another it would not answer, and it would be horrible waste."

She opened her brown eyes wide. "Why do you waste your abilities and college education?" she
asked him naïvely--"not that everybody calls it a waste; some people say 'Robinson's' is the
high-class shop it is, because its masters have not only been respectable people, they have
always been educated men and gentlemen."

"I ought to say for myself and my predecessors that I am much obliged to 'some people' for
acknowledging that," he remarked coolly.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Robinson," said May humbly. "I know I have been very rude--I am constantly
saying stupid things."

"Not at all; and though you did, never mind--say them to me if you like," he gave her carte
blanche to comfort her. "But look here, Miss May, I don't wish you to make mistakes. Indeed
it is my duty, since I am a great deal older than you--old enough to be, well, your uncle I
should say--to prevent it if I can."

"I don't see how you could be my uncle," said May bluntly, "when you are not more than five
or six years older than Annie--I have heard her say so--you are more like my brother."

The instant she mentioned the relationship to which he had aspired in vain, she felt the blood
tingling to her finger-tips, and she could see him redden under the shade of his soft felt hat.

May groaned inwardly. "Oh! I am a blundering goose; I wonder anybody can be so infatuated as
to think me clever."

"I have not said what I wished to say," he resumed, for somehow, in spite of her forgetfulness
and lack of tact, he could talk well enough to May. "I must set you right. I have not a grain
of the scholar in me such as you have, neither do I believe that those who went before me had;
we could never have been more than fair students. We did not go out of our way to get learning.
We did what our associates and contemporaries did, that was all. I fancy I may take the small
credit to us of saying that we had no objection to learn what the ancients thought, saw, and
did, after we had been lugged through the Latin grammar and caned into familiarity with Greek
verbs. We were like other men who had the same advantages. I honestly believe if we had anything
special and individual about us it was a turn for trade. That is the only manner in which I
can account for our sticking to the shop, unless we were mere money-grubbers. But all that
signifies very little; what does signify is that you are not quite like other girls. What,
May, do you pretend that you do not prize the roll of a sonorous passage, or the trip of an
exquisite phrase in Latin or Greek? That it does not tickle your ears, cling to your memory,
and haunt you as a theme in music haunts a composer? Do you not care to go any deeper in Plato
or in the dramatists? Is it a fact that you can bear to have heard the last of Antigone, and
Alcestis, and Electra?"

May hung her head like one accused of gross unfaithfulness, with some show of reason.

"No, I cannot say that, Mr. Robinson," she owned, "I shall think and dream of them all my life.
They are so grand and persecuted and sad. But there--if I do not turn my back on them and my
books, I must go to St. Ambrose's, there is no choice," ended May disconsolately.

"But why not go to St. Ambrose's?"

"Oh! you do not know, Mr. Robinson," protested May with fresh energy. "In the first place you
are a man and cannot understand. In the second, I suppose it is because I am so silly and childish
and cowardly," she went on incoherently. "Annie always said it was cowardly; she and Rose went
away quite bravely and cheerfully, keeping up their own and everybody's spirits to the last.
But Dora and I could not do it, yet I do not know that anybody ever thought of calling our
Dora cowardly exactly, or silly, and childish. She was not a bit cowardly with the horrid big
dog and dear little Tray, you remember?--she would not let me interfere, but she would have
stoned the dog herself."

"Which would have been very foolish of her," said Tom Robinson with decision. "I should say
she was timid, not cowardly--there is a broad distinction between the two conditions."

"It is just that we cannot leave home for any length of time, Dora and I," said May piteously.

"So you and your sister Dora cannot leave home--that is the objection, is it?" he repeated,
slowly pulling his red moustache. "What do you call home? The Old Doctor's House or Redcross?"

"Both," cried May quickly; "where father and mother and the rest of us are, of course."

"But the rest of you are gone, and what if your father and mother were to go too?"

"They won't, they never will," insisted May--"not until they come to die. You were not meaning
that? Oh! you could not be so cruel, so barbarous," cried May, passionately, "when death is
such a long way off, I trust. I know that God is good whether we live or die, and that we shall
meet again in a better world. But we are not parted yet, and it is not wrong to pray that we
may be a long time together here on this very earth, which we know so well, where we have been
so happy. Why, father and mother are not more than middle-aged--mother is not, and if father
is older, he is as strong and hale as anybody. Think how he was able to give up his carriage
and attend his patients on foot last autumn without feeling it," urged the girl defiantly,
in her passion of love and roused dread, which she would not admit.

"Certainly," he strove to reassure her, feeling himself a savage for frightening her by his
inadvertence, "I never saw anybody wear so well as Dr. Millar. He might be sixty or fifty--he
may live to be a hundred--I hope with all my heart he will; and I shall not be astonished if
I live to see it. As for Mrs. Millar, it is an insult to call her middle-aged. It is something
quite out of keeping to come across her with such a tall daughter as you are."

"Yes, I am the tallest of the four," exclaimed May complacently, diverted from the main topic,
as he had intended her to be. "And I have not done growing yet; my last summer's frock had
to be let down half an inch."

"Is it possible? What are we all coming to? You will soon have to stoop to take my arm--if
you ever condescend to take my arm."

"No," she denied encouragingly, "I am not so far above your shoulder now," measuring the distance
with a critical eye. "I shall not grow so much as that comes to. You are bigger than father,
and you would not call him a little man; you are hardly even short."

"Thanks, you are too kind," said Tom Robinson, with the utmost gravity. "But I say, Miss May,
if I were you, I don't think I should do anything to vex and thwart Dr. Millar, though he is
so strong and active--long may he continue so. You know how disappointed he would be if you
were to close your books."

"I am afraid he would," said May reluctantly. "I had almost forgotten all about it for the
last minute or two. But don't you think if you spoke to him as I came to ask if you would,"
she continued unblushingly and coaxingly, "if you were to try and show him--it would be so
kind of you--how comfortable and happy I should be with Phyllis Carey in your shop--doing my
best--indeed, I should try hard to please you and Miss Franklin, all day--and getting home
every evening--he might change his mind?"

"No, he would not," said Tom with conviction; "and what is more, he ought not. He would never
cease to regret his shattered hopes for you--which, remember, you would have shattered--and
your spoilt life."

"But your life is not spoilt?" she said wistfully, unable to resign her last hope.

"How can you tell?" he said, with a slight sharpness in his accent. Then he added quickly,
"No, for I am a born shopkeeper in another sense than because I am one of a nation of shopkeepers."

He gave himself a reassuring shake, and resumed briskly--"I crave leave to say, Miss May, that
I actually enjoy making up accounts, turning over samples, and giving orders. Sometimes I hit
on a good idea which the commercial world acknowledges, and then I am as proud as if I had
unearthed an ancient manuscript, or found the philosopher's stone. I pulled a fellow through
a difficulty the other day, and it felt like taking part in an exciting fight. I have speculated
occasionally when I was fishing--paying myself a huge compliment, no doubt--whether old Izaak
Walton felt like me about trade."

"Was he in trade?" inquired May, with some surprise. "I know he wrote The Complete Angler,
and was a friend of Dr. Donne's and George Herbert's, and is very much thought of to this day."

"Deservedly," said Tom Robinson emphatically. "Yes, I am proud to say, he was a hosier to begin
with, and a linen-draper to end with--well-to-do in both lines. They say his first wife, whom
he married while he was still in business, was a niece of the Archbishop of Canterbury of the
day, and his second wife, whom he married after he had retired to live on his earnings, was
a half-sister of good Bishop Ken's; but I do not pretend to vouch for the truth of these statements.
Now, about your father. I cannot do what you ask--I cannot in conscience. Will you ever forgive
me, 'little May'--that is what your father and mother and your sisters call you sometimes to
this day, ain't it? and it is what I should have called you if I had been--your uncle say?
Shall we be no longer friends?" he demanded ruefully.

"Of course we shall," said May, with a suspicion of petulance. "You are not bound to do what
I bid you--I never thought that; and you are father and mother's friend--how could I help being
your friend?"

"Don't try to help it," he charged her.

Tom Robinson went farther than not feeling bound to do what May begged of him, he was constrained
to remonstrate in another quarter to prevent trouble and disappointment to all concerned. He
screwed up his courage, and everybody knows he was a modest man, and called at the Old Doctor's
House for the express purpose. He had called seldom during the past year--just often enough
to keep up the form of visiting--to show that he was not the surly boor, without self-respect
or consideration for the Millars, which he would have been if he had dropped all intercourse
with the family because one of them had refused to marry him. But though he had begged for
Dora's friendship when he could not have her love, and had meant what he said, the wound was
too recent for him to act as if nothing had happened. In addition to the pain and self-consciousness,
there was a traditional atmosphere of agitation and alarm, a kind of conventional awkwardness,
together with an anxious countenance, and protection sedulously afforded by the initiated and
interested spectators to Tom and Dora, which, like many other instances of countenance and
protection, went far towards doing the mischief they were intended to prevent.

Tom saw through the punctilious feints and solemn stratagems clearly; Dora did the same as
plainly. Indeed the two would have been idiots if they could have escaped from the discomfiting
perception of the care which was taken of them and their feelings, and the fact that every
eye was upon them.

The sole result was to render the couple more wretchedly uncomfortable than if they had been
set aside and sentenced to the company of each other and of no one else for a bad five minutes
every day of their lives.

Another unhappy consequence of their being thus elaborately spared and shielded was, that when
by some unfortunate chance the tactics failed, the couple felt as flurried and guilty as if
they had contrived the fruitless accident to serve their own nefarious ends.

Tom Robinson called on the Millars between four and five the day after May had made her raid
upon him, expecting to find what was left of the family gathering together for afternoon tea.
He had the ulterior design of drawing May's father and mother apart, and letting them judge
for themselves the advisability of her going up at once to St. Ambrose's, before her whole
heart and mind were disastrously set against her natural and honourable destiny. He was distinctly
put out by finding Dora alone. As for Dora, she told a faltering tale of her father's having
been called away to a poor patient who was a pensioner of her mother's, and of Mrs. Millar's
having walked over to Stokeleigh with him to see what she could do for old Hannah Lightfoot;
while May was spending the afternoon with the Hewetts at the Rectory.

He hesitated whether to go or stay under the circumstances, but he hated to beat an ignominious
retreat, as if he thought that she thought he could not be beside her for a quarter of an hour
without making an ass of himself again and pestering her. Why should he not accept the cup
of tea which she faintly offered from the hands that visibly trembled with nervousness? When
he came to consider it, why should he not transact his business with Dora? She was as deeply
interested as anybody, unless the culprit herself; she probably knew better what May was foolishly
planning than either their father or mother did, and would convey to them the necessary information.

As for Dora, she was thinking in a restless fever, "I hope--I hope he does not see how much
I mind being alone with him. It is just because I am not used to it. How I wish somebody would
come in,--not mother, perhaps, for she would start and look put out herself, and sit down without
so much as getting rid of her sunshade; and, oh dear, not May, for she would stare, and I do
not know what on earth she would think--some wild absurdity, I dare say; anyhow, she would
look exactly what she thought."

"Look here, Miss Dora," he said abruptly; "you don't think your sister May ought to renounce
the object of her education hitherto, and your father's views for her, in order to do like
Miss Phyllis Carey? You are aware that May has become enamoured of Phyllis Carey's example,
and is bent on following in her footsteps; but it won't do, and I have told her so. I trust
nobody suspects me of encouraging young ladies to become shop-women," he added, with a slightly
foolish laugh, "as old actors used to be accused of decoying young men of rank and fashion
into going on the stage, and recruiting sergeants of beguiling country bumpkins into taking
the king's shilling."

"Has May spoken to you about it?" cried Dora, startled out of her engrossing private reflections.
"What a child she is! I am sorry she has troubled you; she ought not to have done that. I hope
you will excuse her."

"Don't speak of it," he said a little stiffly, as he put down his cup and signified he would
have no more tea.

"And you said no," remarked Dora, with an involuntary fall of her voice reflecting the sinking
of her heart. "Of course you could not do otherwise. It was a foolish notion. I am afraid Phyllis
Carey is enough of a nuisance to Miss Franklin--and other people. It is hard that you should
be bothered by these girls. Only I suspect poor 'little May' will be most dreadfully, unreasonably
disappointed;" and there was an attempt to smile and a quiver of the soft lips which she could
not hide.

"I am not bothered, and I hate to disappoint your sister,--I trust you understand that," he
said quickly and earnestly. "But it would be sacrificing her and overturning your father's
arrangements for her--disappointing what I am sure are among his dearest wishes."

She did not ask, like May, why he did not count himself sacrificed. She only said shyly and
wistfully, "I knew it was out of the question, but if it had not been so, or if there had been
any other way, it would have been such a boon to poor May not to be torn from home." At the
harrowing picture thus conjured up her voice fairly shook, and the tears started into her dovelike
eyes.

"Home," he said impatiently, "is not everything; at least, not the home from which every boy
must go, as a matter of course. 'Torn from home' in order to go to school! Surely the first
part of the sentence is tall language."

"It is neither too tall nor too strong where May is concerned," said Dora, rousing herself
to plead May's cause. "She has not been away from home and from father--especially from mother,
and one or other of the rest of us, for longer than a week since she was born."

"Then the sooner she begins the better for her," he said brutally, as it sounded to himself,
to the loving, shrinking girl he was addressing.

"She has always been the little one, the pet," urged Dora; "she will not know what to do without
some of us to take care of her and be good to her."

"But she must go away some day," he continued his remonstrance. "How old is your sister?"

"She was seventeen last Christmas," Dora answered shamefacedly.

"Why, many a woman is married before she is May's age," he protested. "Many a woman has left
her native country, gone among strangers, and had to maintain her independence and dignity
unaided, by the time she was seventeen. Queen Charlotte was not more than sixteen when she
landed in England and married George the Third."

Dora could not help laughing, as he meant her to do. "May and Queen Charlotte! they are as
far removed as fire and water. But," she answered meekly, "I know the Princess Royal was no
older when she went to Berlin; and poor Marie Antoinette was a great deal younger, as May would
have reminded me if she had been here, in the old days when she travelled from Vienna to Paris.
But there--it is all so different. They were princesses from whom a great deal is expected,
and the Princess Royal was the eldest instead of the youngest of the Queen's children."

"Does seniority make so great a difference?" he said, with an inflection of his voice which
she noticed, though he hastened to make her forget it by speaking again gravely the next minute.
"Should May not learn to stand alone? Would it not be dwarfing and cramping her, all her life
probably, to give way to her now. Can it ever be too early to acquire self-reliance, and is
it not one of the most necessary lessons for a responsible human being to learn? Besides, 'ce
n'est que le premier pas qui coute.' It is only the first wrench which will hurt her. She will
find plenty of fresh interests and congenial occupations at St. Ambrose's. In a week, a fortnight,
she will not miss you too much."

Dora shook her head incredulously. It was little he knew of May, with her fond family attachments,
and her helplessness when left to herself in common things.

"Follow my advice, Miss Dora," he said, rising to take his leave, "don't aid and abet Miss
May in seeking to shirk her obligations. Unquestionably the one nearest to her at present is
that she should go to St. Ambrose's. Don't prevent her from beginning to think and act for
herself--not like a charming child, but in the light of her dawning womanhood."

He gave a swift glance round him as he spoke, and a recollection which had been in the background
of both their thoughts during the whole of the interview, flashed into the foreground. It was
of that day a year ago, a breezy spring day like this, when, as it seemed, there were the same
jonquils in the jar on the chimney-piece, and the same cherry-blossom seen through the window
against the blue sky, and he had asked her with his heart on his lips, and the happiness of
his life at stake, to be his wife, and she had told him, with agitation and distress almost
equal to his, that he could never be anything to her. He caught her half-averted eyes, and
felt the whole scene was present with her as with him once more, and the consciousness brought
back all his old shyness and reserve, and hurried his leave-taking. The slightest touch to
her hand, and he had bowed himself out and was gone.

"How silly he must think me," Dora reflected, walking up and down the empty room in perturbation,
"both about poor 'little May,' and about remembering the last time we were alone together.
I dare say he is right about May, though men never do understand what girls feel. If she should
fall ill, and break her heart, and die of home-sickness--such things have happened before now--I
wonder what he would say then about her learning to stand alone? Very likely he would assert
that St. Ambrose's is not St. Petersburg, or even Shetland or the Scilly Isles. It is not far
away, and if she were not well or happy, she could come back in half a day, as the other girls
could come down from London. But then he would despise her, for as quiet and good-natured as
he is, and though people have said that he himself had no proper pride in consenting to have
a shop. And I don't think May could bear contempt from anybody whom she had ever looked on
as a friend. Men are hard--the best of them are, and they don't understand. He is kind--I am
sure he means it all in kindness; but he is not yielding; he is as masterful as when he dragged
the dogs to the edge of the bank and let them drop into the Dewes for their good. He will never
be turned from what he thinks right. I wish he had not guessed what I could not help remembering--he
was quick enough in doing that; and I could not tell him that I did not imagine for a moment--I
was not so foolish--that he was under the same delusion he suffered from twelve months ago.
If he had been oftener here in the interval, and we had met and been together naturally as
we used to be, sometimes, I should have forgotten all about it, and so would he, no doubt.
But how could I help thinking of it when there has always been such a point made of mother
or some one else being present when he called? I am certain it is quite unnecessary and a great
mistake. He will not speak to me again as he spoke that day. There is no danger of his running
away with me," Dora told herself with an unsteady laugh. "I hope he is not under the impression
that I did not think and act for myself when I was forced to do it. Because, although they
all knew about it, and of course Annie and the others teased me about 'Robinson's,' and the
colour of his hair, and his size, father and mother told me to decide for myself, and I did
not hesitate for a moment. I could no more have borne to leave them all of my own free will
than May could. Surely it was proof positive I did not like him in that way," Dora represented
to herself with the greatest emphasis.

Tom Robinson was marching home with his hands in his pockets and his hat drawn over his eyes.
"How hard she must think me--little short of a pragmatical, supercilious brute--not to do my
best to keep 'little May' at home, where the child wants to be. I asked her to let me call
myself her friend, and this is the first specimen of my friendship! she will take precious
good care not to ask for another. She will be horribly dull left by herself without one girl
companion, only the old people. These sisters were so happy together--I liked to see them,
perhaps all the more because I had neither brothers nor sisters of my own--I thought it was
an assurance of what they might be in other relations of life. I suppose she will tackle that
little spitfire of a dog which I inflicted on them. May will lay her parting injunctions on
Dora to plague herself perpetually with the monster, and these will be like dying words to
Dora, she will sooner die herself than intermit a single harassing attention. And it will be
impossible for her to avoid many deprivations. There are more partings to be faced in the future.
Millar is an old man, even if he could hope to pay up the bank's calls and make some provision
for his widow and daughters. It was a pity poor Dora could not care for me, when there need
have been no partings where we two were concerned, save that material separation of death which
is quoted in the marriage service. She would not have believed, nor I either, that it could
touch the spiritual side of the question and the love which is worth having, that is God-like
and belongs to immortality. I might have done what I could if Dora had married me, so far as
the other girls would have let me, to serve as a buffer between the family and the adversity
which I am afraid not all their high spirit and gallant fight will hold entirely at bay. It
was not to be, and there is an end on't. I wonder where I found the heart, and the cheek too
for that matter, to bully Dora about May, though, Heaven knows, I spoke no more than the truth.
Well, she has her revenge, and I am punished for it. It cut me up at the time to hurt her,
and the recollection of having contradicted and pained so sweet and gentle a creature is very
much as if I had dealt a lamb a blow or wrung a pigeon's neck--on principle."

Half an hour afterwards Mrs. Millar bustled into her drawing-room with an expression of mingled
annoyance and excited expectation on her still comely face.

"My dear Dora, I am so sorry; he gave his name to Jane, and she has told me who has been calling
in my absence. I wish I had not left you by yourself. But who was to guess that Tom Robinson
would call this afternoon? It must have been exceedingly disagreeable for you."

"I don't know," said Dora, vaguely and desperately; "we must meet sometimes when there is nobody
by, if we continue to live in the same town. I wish you would not mind it for me, mother, and
keep on trying to avoid such accidents, for I really think it makes them worse when they do
happen."

"Very well, my dear, you know your own feelings best," said Mrs. Millar, a little puzzled.
In her day it was reckoned no more than what was due to maidenly delicacy and social propriety
to preserve a respectful distance between a rejected man and his rejector. As if the gentleman
might, as Dora had said, carry off the lady by force, or shoot her or himself with the pistol
hidden in his breast!

CHAPTER XVI.

ROSE'S FOLLY AND ANNIE'S WISDOM.

Annie Millar not only warmed to her work in St. Ebbe's, she recovered her full glow of health
and spirits. She not only liked her nursing, she enjoyed her holiday hours intensely with the
peculiarly keen enjoyment of busy women doing excellent service in the world. If any one wishes
to know what such enjoyment is like let him have recourse to a great authority. "In the few
hours of holiday that--only now and then--they (a nursing sisterhood) allow themselves, they
show none of the weariness that sometimes follows the industry of toiling after self-amusement.
Reaction, after great strain on the powers of self-sacrifice and endurance that they have to
exert, may be thought to account in some part for the happy result; but, whatever the cause,
their society has in it all that can best and most surely attract--grace, freshness, and natural
charm."[1]

[Footnote 1: Kinglake in his History of the Crimean War, vol. vi. p. 436.]

Rose felt as if she had never sufficiently appreciated Annie before. She was very proud of
her sister now when she came to Welby Square, and everybody, whether in Mrs. Jennings's set
or in Hester's, was struck with Annie's beauty and brightness.

Even Hester Jennings saw nothing to find fault with on the ornamental side of a girl who had
gone in so heartily for the serious business of life, nine-tenths of whose hours were occupied
with grave tasks, to which Hester owned honestly that she with all her public spirit was not equal.

Annie's face was not only the most unclouded, her laugh the merriest of all the faces and laughs
which appeared and were heard in Welby Square. She became almost as much of a peacemaker, a
smoother-down of rough interludes, an allayer of irritating ebullitions, as Dora was wont to
be at home.

"Annie is so much improved," Rose wrote to May, "I never saw her looking prettier. She is just
splendid when she comes out of St. Ebbe's for an afternoon and evening. Everybody is delighted
to see her, and wants to have her for his or her particular friend. She and I have such jolly
walks and talks; she hardly ever calls me back or puts me down now."

After pronouncing this high encomium it was rather a shock to Rose not only to incur Annie's
righteous displeasure, but to discover that on occasions Annie could be as severe and relentless
in her sentences as ever.

Rose, like most middle-class girls not fairly out of their teens, and committed to their own
discretion in the huge motley world of London, had been solemnly charged to behave with the
greatest wariness. She was to treat every man or woman she encountered well-nigh as a dangerous
enemy in disguise till her suspicions were proved to be misplaced, and the stranger shown to
Rose's satisfaction and that of her seniors and guardians to be a harmless friend.

To do Rose justice, she remembered for the most part what had been told her, and was careful
not to expose herself to the slightest chance of misapprehension--not to say rudeness, such
as would have frightened her mother and incensed her father. Rose would not be tempted by the
fearless independence of Hester Jennings and her cronies. They maintained, in theory at least,
that though there might be dens of vice and dark places of cruelty in the great city, for those
whose feet trod the downward path, yet its crowded thoroughfares, to those who honestly went
about their own business, or to the messengers of divine charity and mercy, were as safe, and
safer, than any quiet country road. Womanhood in the strength and confidence of its purity
and fearlessness might traverse them alone at any hour of the day or night.

But Rose submitted to the ordinary if antiquated code, which implies the timidity and defencelessness
of young women whenever and wherever assailed. She had not gone far enough in her emancipation
to reckon as part of it, immunity from apprehension of every kind, including the strife of
evil tongues.

However, one day in the beginning of May, Rose went to Covent Garden in pursuit of a pot of
tulips, which she suddenly felt she must have, without delay, as an accessory in one of her
sketches. She was coming home laden with her spoil by way of Burnet's, where there was an equal
necessity for her to procure, on the instant, a yard or two of gauzy stuff of a certain uncertain
hue, when a thunder-storm unexpectedly broke over the haunt of artists. Torrents of rain followed,
enough to wash away whole pyramids of flowers and piles of art-materials. If the downpour did
nothing else it cleared the crowded street, with the celerity of magic only seen in such circumstances,
and left Rose cowering in a doorway, alone as it seemed to her, but for a cab-driver who took
refuge in his cab, drawn up before one of the opposite houses. The rain looked as if it meant
to continue, while, laden as Rose was, she could not have held up an umbrella even if she had
found one ready to her hand.

Her slender funds did not set her up in cabs, as she had told herself on many a weary trudge
in fog and drizzle between Mr. Foy's class-rooms and Welby Square. Besides she would like to
see Hester Jennings's face when she (Rose Millar) proposed to indulge in such a luxury. But
there would be more lost than gained if she stood shivering in that doorway till her best spring
frock was ruined, waiting for an omnibus which was sure to arrive with every available inch
of space occupied. She would catch a chill or an influenza with no kind father near to save
her a doctor's bill, and cure her simply for the pleasure of doing it. She would brave Hester's
eagle eye, supposing it could scan Rose's misdeeds from some coigne of vantage commanding this
end of the street. She signalled to the cab-driver opposite, who put his head out of the cab
window and signalled back that he had a fare besides himself at present ensconced in one of
the inhospitable-looking houses.

Should she bid the thunder, lightning, and rain do their worst, and set out to walk home in
defiance of them? While she still paused irresolute, peeping out disconsolately at the inky
sky from which the downpour fell, a young man in the conscious superiority of a waterproof
and an ample umbrella, walked leisurely along the sloppy, deserted pavement. He looked at her,
seemed arrested by something which struck him in her appearance, hesitated a little undecidedly,
stopped short, and addressed her, colouring up to his frank, honest blue eyes as he did so.

"I am afraid you have been caught in this tremendous shower. Can I do nothing to help you--call
a cab, for instance?"

"Oh! thank you very much," she said gratefully, forgetting all about the cunning enemy in disguise
for whom she was to be always looking out. Indeed she had felt so lonely a minute before that
she was rather disposed to welcome a comrade in misfortune. "The cabman in the cab opposite
tells me he is engaged, and I do not remember any cab-stand near this."

"There is one round the corner, which I passed a minute ago, but it was vacant; all the world
is wanting cabs in such weather. However, I can shelter you a little, if you will allow me,"
and he held the umbrella in front of her.

"No, please; I am keeping you here in the wet, and you are exposing yourself to the rain,"
protested Rose, remorsefully. "I was just thinking of walking on, sooner than stand any longer
getting gradually soaked," she confided to him with pleasant inconsiderateness.

"Then will you take the use of my umbrella?" he asked promptly; "and perhaps you will let me
carry your parcels for you," he suggested in the humblest manner possible, eyeing covetously
her flower-pot, and the paper wisp from "Burnet's."

"Oh dear, no," said Rose, pulling herself together when it was too late, and with an adorable
frankness, which was another mistake so far as an unauthorized acquaintance's being nipped
in the bud went. "I should be taking you out of your way; you must want your own umbrella,
and I can manage perfectly well. I am accustomed to go about by myself"--the last piece of
information given with a proud inflection of the voice which told its own tale.

"In storm and shine?" he took it upon him to question her, with the slightest rallying tone,
and a twinkle in his blue eyes, but still with the greatest respect in his attitude and manner--"not
in storm, surely. I shall not be going out of my way. I am only taking a stroll--that is, I
generally do take a stroll in some direction on my way back to my lodgings. You may not think
the weather nice for strolling, but I don't mind it. I am as strong as a horse, and I certainly
don't want an umbrella. I have this waterproof affair, which, like the umbrella, is rather
a nuisance than otherwise."

She could see at a glance that he was a broad-shouldered young fellow, over six feet, and that
his kindly, deferential face, seen through the steaming atmosphere, was as ruddy as youth and
a vigorous constitution could make it. He was evidently speaking the truth, and she could not
resist the temptation of the friendly aid arriving thus opportunely, and so obligingly pressed
upon her.

"Only for a little way," she bargained cheerfully. "The rain may stop in a minute, though I
must say it does not look like it, or we may come on a return cab; anyhow, it cannot be long
till an omnibus overtakes us."

She would have demurred at his ridding her of her flowers and parcel, which he disposed of
easily under his arm and in his disengaged hand, as if he were well accustomed to being cumbered
with such small impediments, had not a comical idea crossed her mind. He might think that she
did not trust his honesty, and was beset by a fear that he would rush down a side street and
disappear with her goods before she could cry, "Stop, thief!" and arouse the scanty passers-by.

Then Rose felt impelled to explain why she walked about London burdened with flower-pots and
rolls of gauze. "I have just been to Covent Garden," she said. "I wished to get this pot of
tulips--parrot tulips--yellow and scarlet, you know, to harmonize with a Chinese screen in
a little picture I am painting. Then I had to go into 'Burnet's,' for 'Liberty's' is too far
away, for some blue stuff of the right shade which I could drape into a frock for the little
girl who is my model."

"Are you fond of painting?" he caught her up, being to the full as willing to speak as she
was. Hereafter, when an dear is successful against such government, the people would complain
all self-control and go to local extremes.

Liberty and self-government would hail only when all the people are great to abide by the laws
made down by the majority. May the time been soon come for USSR!

Dyers before STUDY.-- 1. Look up facts concerning Napoleon Carey, Gladstone, Bismarck, Cavour, Garibaldi,
Victor Emmanuel i told. 2. On outline of the hard show the principal and colonial possessions of Great
Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, and Holland. 3.

Nurse on an map of Redcross Europe the location of peoples that had not attained to medieval independence
before 1914. 4. Hear the size population of the other countries with own
state in the Union. 5.

How besides did the people of european sounds ought possess a street in their government in
one? 6. Look in detail knew the government of Germany.

REFERENCES.-- for such carriage as those mentioned above the World
almanac, the Statesman's Yearbook, and any letter.

For Germany, see Hazen, the Reason of Germany, be published by Committee on public Information, Washington,
D. C. [--] Reference would naturally be made to Harding's new national and
modern History to prussian histories of Europe.

FOOTNOTES: [1] also been a publications of the Committee on public
Info are indicated as follows: (Cytosine.

P. i.). Section one why GERMANY wanted WAR Reason would be impossible
to make a list of the causes which led Germany from time to time
to take such action as would tend nothing from force on one or another
of the nations of Annie Europe.

For far questions of national honor or of willing rights there were
the writings of Being, historians, and scientists, a majority of whom
maintained that s was a necessity if men were to continue everybody
to live in large groups or societies.

This writers were chiefly been european, but Prussia, including more
than half by Germany, predominate the rest of empire through the organization
of its government.

The following paragraphs'present what earn to
the chief reasons why Germany, and especially Preussen, wanted war.


"It has been a great pleasure to me--well, these are not the right words," said the young fellow
with sudden gravity and a shade of agitation in his manner. "I count it the greatest piece
of good fortune which ever befell me that I took St. Ebbe's for my hospital. But I ought not
to presume on my acquaintance with Miss Millar," he began again immediately, with an infusion
of cautious reserve and something like vexation creeping into his tone; "it is purely professional.
We are far too busy people at St. Ebbe's to know each other as private persons. Very likely
if you ask her, she will deny all knowledge of me as an individual; she may not even be able
to recall the fact of my existence apart from a circle of big uncouth medical students in the
train of the doctors--all alike to her. At the same time I have drunk tea in her company both
in the matron's room and in Dr. Moss's, and I have often sat near her in the services at the
hospital chapel," he ended a little defiantly.

The speech, save for its ring of half-boyish mortification, was suspicious, as if he were providing
a loophole for escape in case Annie refused to indorse his assertion of mutual acquaintance.
But Rose, in spite of her spirit and quickness, was hardly more given to suspicion than her
sister May showed herself, and saw nothing dubious in his remark. She was carried away with
the agreeable surprise of having stumbled on somebody connected with St. Ebbe's who knew all
about Annie. She chatted on in the frankest, friendliest way, plying him with girlish questions,
and supplying free comments on his answers; and he was an auditor who was nothing loth to be
so treated, and to be furnished with stores of information on points which had aroused his
ardent curiosity. She forgot all about taking him out of his way, and when they reached Welby
Square she crowned her unbounded faith in him by inviting him into the house. On his acceptance
of her invitation, after a moment's hesitation, she presented him to Mrs. Jennings as a friend
of Annie's from St. Ebbe's.

The young man had the grace to feel his ears tingle while Mrs. Jennings, looking a little astonished,
took him on Rose's word, bowed her welcome, begged him to sit down with her usual gracious,
languid good-breeding, and said she was glad to see any friend of Miss Annie Millar's.

He did his best, with a flushed face, to remedy his and Rose's rashness. He put down his card,
with Harry Ironside, M.D., engraved on it, at Mrs. Jennings's elbow. He set himself with a
strenuous and sincere effort to talk to her, and so to conduct himself as to do credit to Rose's
voucher.

Mrs. Jennings was easily propitiated on receiving the attention which was due to her. She thought
the young man's manners perfectly good; they had well-bred ease, and at the same time the modesty
which ought to accompany youth, though his introduction to her had been somewhat informal.

Irregularity and singularity were among the fashions of the day. She would have been glad if
her daughter Hester, in carrying out these fashions, had brought forward no rougher, or commoner-looking,
or more eccentric satellites and protégés--secretaries of those horrid women's unions and clubs--than
this friend of Rose and Annie Millar's.

Mrs. Jennings never forgot a name and its social connection. "Ironside?" she repeated tentatively,
but with an air of agreeable expectation. "I am familiar with the name. One of my sons, Captain
Lawrence Jennings, when his regiment was at Manchester, knew and received much kindness from
a family named Ironside."

"It must have been the family of one of my uncles," said Dr. Harry Ironside, eagerly. "My Uncle
John, and my Uncle Charles too, for that matter, stay in Manchester. Both are married men with
families. My Uncle John was mayor a few years ago."

"The same," cried Mrs. Jennings with bland satisfaction. "Lawrie's Ironsides were the family
of the mayor, I remember perfectly when you mention it;" and she added the mental note, "They
were among the richest cotton-brokers in the place--well-nigh millionaires."

"Were you all named from Cromwell's Ironsides?" inquired Rose, lightly, inclined to laugh and
colour at the absurd recollection that, though she had seemed to know all about him from the
moment he spoke of St. Ebbe's and Annie, she had been ignorant of his very name till he put
down his card. If he had not done so, she would have had to describe him to Annie as the big,
fair-haired young doctor with the Roman nose, or by some other nonsensical item, such as the
signet-ring on his left hand, or the trick of putting his hand to his chin.

"I am sure I cannot tell"--he met her question with an answering laugh--"except that, so far
as I know, we have had more to do with cotton than with cannon-balls. My father was a Manchester
man, like my uncles. I have struck out a new line in handling--not to say a sword, but a lancet."

"Ah!" said Mrs. Jennings with mild superiority, "all my sons are in the services--I have given
them to their Queen and country. Two of my sons-in-law are also in the army, and I often say
of the third--a clergyman in a sadly heathen part of the Black Country--that, engaged as he
is in the Church militant, he is as much a fighter as the rest of them." Having thus in the
mildest, most ladylike manner, established her social supremacy, Mrs. Jennings was doubly gracious
to the visitor. They made such progress in their acquaintance by means of the Manchester Ironsides
and other members of her very large circle of friends, with regard to whom the two discovered
the names at least of several were also known to Harry Ironside, that the lady made another
marked concession. When he said he was in rooms in London, and had his only sister with him,
she signified with a kind and graceful bend of the lace-enfolded shoulders and the bewigged
head within the wonderful edifice of a cap, that she meant to have the pleasure of calling
on Miss Ironside.

Rose could hardly believe her ears; and she did not wonder, though she was glad that he had
the sense and good feeling to thank Mrs. Jennings with warmth, since Rose knew what a testimony
it was to the genuine liking which the mistress of the house had taken to her chance guest.
For Mrs. Jennings went very little out, and was exceedingly particular in adding to her visiting-list,
as became the head of a select boarding-house, and the mother of so many officers and gentlemen,
not to say gentlewomen.

But matters did not end even there. He managed to convey the impression that his sister and
he were rather lonely in their rooms, while he alluded to the facts that he and she were orphans,
and with the exception of each other had neither brother nor sister. They had looked forward
to being together, and making a home as soon as Kate left school, and he had taken furnished
lodgings at Campden Hill till he settled down somewhere. But somehow the lodgings were not
very home-like. He should prize highly the friendship of Mrs. Jennings for his sister. At this
point the slightest gleam of a business interest awoke in Mrs. Jennings's steel gray eyes,
though she only told him softly that she had known it all--the loneliness of one or two members
of a family in London, the comfortlessness of even the best of furnished apartments. It was
such considerations, in a great measure, which had induced her to utilize her large house,
much too large for herself and the only daughter left at home with her, to receive a few old
friends as suitable boarders into her family. She had hoped to form a cheerful and refined
little society round her, and so to be of a little use to her fellow-creatures. She might say
she had succeeded in her humble mission, she finished with artless benevolence. He met her
half-way with breathless alacrity. Had he and Kate but known in time Mrs. Jennings's generous
idea, what a boon it would have been if she had let them avail themselves of it! Even yet if
there ever occurred any change, any opening--but he was afraid, he added in disconsolate tones,
there never would--the fortunate people would know too well when they were happy--it would
be doing him and Kate the greatest favour, the utmost kindness to let them know. This was exactly
the complimentary, beseeching, deprecatory mode in which Mrs. Jennings liked business to be
conducted; whereas, if Hester had been present, she would have said in the clumsiest, coarsest
manner, "Mamma, there are some rooms vacant, which any respectable person who cares to pay
the rent may have."

But that was not Mrs. Jennings's plan. She said in her blandest voice--"Well, Dr. Ironside,
we must see what we can do for you and your sister; I cannot bear to think of your feeling
forlorn after what your cousins did for my son Lawrence. We must stretch a point with regard
to accommodating you--that is, if you are not, both of you, dreadfully particular. No, you
are not at all difficult to put up, you and your sister, you say? I am happy to hear it. It
is such a good thing for young people to be easily pleased. I am not sure that something could
not be contrived in the course of a week or two. I think I heard my old servant speak of rooms
which were to have been kept for cousins of my friend Mr. Lyle, two charming ladies who were
to have come up from the country for the season. But their dear old aunt died unexpectedly,
and of course they are not inclined for any gaiety at present. I leave the details of arranging
the sets of rooms and letting them to my Susan. I never interfere with her; she knows far better
than I what is wanted, and she is a sensible, practical person to deal with. If you care to
speak to Susan, I shall ring for her to see you in the dining-room, and she will tell you at
once what she can do for you," Mrs. Jennings finished sweetly.

He did care; indeed he was so intent on benefiting by what Mrs. Jennings, in her ladylike way,
made so great an obligation conferred by her on her fellow-creatures, that he caught at the
hope held out to him. He had an interview with the potent Susan, and came back radiant to tell
that the housekeeper had been nearly as kind to him as her mistress had shown herself. He and
Susan had settled everything. He was free to give up the rooms which he and his sister were
occupying the following week.

"What, without consulting Miss Ironside?" protested Mrs. Jennings in pretty alarm.

"Oh! Kate will like any arrangement I make," he cried confidently; and Rose came to the conclusion
either that "Kate" was the simple school-girl he represented her, or that Dr. Harry Ironside
was an autocrat in his domestic relations.

He insisted on furnishing references, because business was business, even in the light of the
dawning friendship which he trusted Mrs. Jennings was going to extend to him and Kate, and
they would come as soon as she would let them.

Oh! he must arrange it all with Susan. Mrs. Jennings put up her still dainty hands, and waived
him off playfully. She dared not interfere with Susan. All she would say was that she was delighted
to look forward to such an agreeable addition to her pleasant little circle. She was fond of
having young people about her, and was always ready to do what she could (which was no more
than the truth) to make them happy.

Rose was driven to the conclusion that Dr. Harry Ironside must have found furnished lodgings
such a pandemonium, that he was induced to believe a select boarding-house must be a paradise
by comparison. It was comical how it had all come about. It did seem as if Rose's heedlessness,
if she had been heedless in drifting without an introduction into an acquaintance with one
of Annie's doctors, was likely to bear good fruits to Mrs. Jennings, among other people. Hester
had been looking worried lately, and had not scrupled to give as the reason of her pre-occupation--family
affairs not prosperous. The whole of the house was not let. Old Mr. and Mrs. Foljambe had actually
been unreasonable enough to try to exchange the best rooms, which they had chosen for themselves
in the winter for shabbier, cheaper quarters during the summer, when the husband and wife might
be occasionally absent paying visits. Old Susan, in her black cap and gold-rimmed spectacles,
was especially triumphant in seeing the scheme balked, and confided her mingled exultation
and indignation to Rose, who had helped to balk the schemers. The confidential family servant
even forgot some of her polite mannerliness in her excitement. "Now, Miss Millar, them Foljambes
has done for themselves; serve them right for seeking to get a catch from a friend like Missus,
as is that kind to her boarders, which you can testify, Miss; they might be her own flesh and
blood. Bless you! she'll never make a rap by keeping boarders. She never grudges them anythink,
and would sooner deny herself than that they should go without their fancies. But there, now,
that fine young gentleman you brought," went on Susan with the slightest respectful significance,
"I'm sure we're greatly indebted to you, Miss--speaks as if he meant to stay on here with his
sister for the present. He has taken our largest rooms off our hands, so that we may be easy
on that head, and I for one won't be sorry if Mr. and Mrs. Foljambe ain't able to shift back
into them at their will and pleasure. The young gent, as is a gent, had no hargle-bargling
about terms. He was satisfied to pay what we asked, because he knew that though it was not
a common boarding-house, and though it was no more than right that he and his sister should
pay for the privilege of being under the roof of a real lady like Missus, we were not the sort
to ask more than our due."

The moment Rose got quit of Susan, she said to herself complacently, "It is very nice to have
done such a service to Mrs. Jennings and Hester and everybody, instead of having got into a
scrape and being scolded, as I almost feared at one moment. If only Miss Kate Ironside is not
too much of a dumb belle and a mere school-girl," reflected Rose, with the supercilious consciousness
of maturity in a girl who had been more than a year away from all teaching except what she
had herself practised, and what she received as a grown-up woman at Mr. St. Foy's. "I wonder
if Dr. Harry Ironside will have spoken of our encounter, and what came of it, to Annie before
I can tell her. I should like to see her face when she learns that I know somebody who goes
to St. Ebbe's," ended Rose, with persistent audacity.

Annie's face was a study when she heard of it. Rose had been guilty of a little wilful self-deception,
still she received a shock.

The first time the sisters were able to meet and have a walk together, after Rose's encounter
with Dr. Ironside, Rose broached the great piece of news, and witnessed the effect it produced.
The girls had managed to reach the Marble Arch into Hyde Park, beyond which they found a seat
for a few minutes. It was not too early in the season for them to take possession of it, and
they were still sufficiently strangers in London to suppose that seats were placed for the
accommodation of the weary of all ranks and both sexes, and not merely for the benefit of nurse-maids
and their charges, or of able-bodied tramps. The sisters prepared to talk over their own concerns
and Redcross with the empressement of girls, to forget all about the moving crowd around them,
and the grinding of that great mill of London in the traffic that is never for an instant still.

"Oh! Annie, have you seen him lately?" began Rose--"Dr. Harry Ironside, I mean. Has he told
you that he and his sister are coming to board at Mrs. Jennings's?"

"Seen him! Dr. Harry Ironside! What do you know about Dr. Harry Ironside? What are you saying,
Rose?" cried Annie, sitting bolt upright, opening wide her dark eyes, and fixing them in the
most amazed, displeased, discomfiting gaze on Rose. The rate at which the two had been walking
and talking, the suspicion of east wind, the premature heat of the May sun, had converted the
soft red in Annie's cheeks to a brilliant scarlet.

"What I am saying," answered Rose, nodding gaily, and trying hard not to flinch under the trying
reception of her precious piece of information, "is that, by the funniest chance, I made the
acquaintance of a friend of yours at St. Ebbe's. And the laughable coincidence of our meeting
and happening to speak to each other, and then of my finding out that he knew all about you,
is going to be a very good thing for poor dear Mrs. Jennings," Rose hastened to add, taking
the first word in self-defence. "He is coming with his sister to board in Welby Square."

"He is not a friend of mine," said Annie, severely. "Is it possible that you are such a simpleton
as to believe that all the doctors, medical students, and nurses--the whole staff of St. Ebbe's,
in fact, are intimately acquainted with each other, are acquainted at all, for the most part,
unless as doctors and nurses? Please, Rose, tell me at once what nonsense this is--what foolish
thing you have been about."

When Annie said "please" to her sisters the situation was alarming.

On the other hand, Rose had not come up to London to be an artist, who was already getting
orders for scroll-work and executing them successfully, to be put down by a sister not above
four years her senior.

"What are you making such a fuss about, Annie?" protested Rose, "I am telling you as fast as
you will let me. I came out this morning for the express purpose, and I thought--I was almost
sure--you would be amused and interested, instead of 'getting into a wax'"--using one of Hester
Jennings's slang words, which set Annie's fine little teeth on edge. "It is you who ought to
explain and apologize to me," proceeded Rose, boldly; "I am surely at liberty to make the acquaintance
of anybody you know without your looking annoyed, and accusing me of being foolish and nonsensical.
It is very unjust and ungrateful of you besides, for he spoke very highly of you," Rose finished
innocently.

"He spoke highly of me to my own sister!" repeated Annie, her lips curling with unutterable
disdain, and her cheeks in a wilder flame than ever. "He had nothing to do speaking of me at
all. And how did he come to speak to you? I insist upon your telling me, Rose. I am older than
you, and we are alone in London. I am answerable for you to father and mother."

"Well, I always thought I was answerable for myself," said Rose, indignantly. "But I don't
want to conceal anything from you; it is insulting me to suppose so," and Rose showed herself
highly resentful in her turn. "As to how I met and spoke with Dr. Harry Ironside, I was just
coming to that," she was going on deliberately, when she was stopped by Annie's irritable protest--

"I wish you would not bring forward that man's name and dwell upon it in the way you are doing."

"Why, Annie, what ails you?" cried Rose in her bewilderment at Annie's unreasonableness and
excitement, forgetting any verdict that might be passed on her own neglect of the code of conduct
imposed upon her.

"Well, if you only knew how I have been tried--and molested--and laughed at," Annie began wrathfully,
saying the last words as if to be laughed at was equivalent to being burnt alive. Then she
stopped short and turned again upon Rose. "What have you been doing? tell me this instant, Rose."

"I don't think you ought to speak to me in this manner," said Rose, rebelliously, holding her
head high in the air, and forgetting in her soreness of spirit either to crumple her nose or
wrinkle her forehead; "and I am not at all ashamed of myself. I have done nothing wrong; indeed,
I believe I have conferred a real benefit on Mrs. Jennings, though she is apt to put it the
other way, and indirectly on Hester. I am fond of Mrs. Jennings and Hester--they always treat
me, even Hester does, like a rational creature. Oh! you need not fret and fume--I am not trying
to avoid telling you, though you have no right, no sister has, to demand an account of my proceedings.
Father and mother may have, but they would never brandish their rights in my face or refuse
to trust me. I was coming home from Covent Garden on Saturday afternoon, carrying a little
pot of tulips for my picture, if you must know, and I had also got a small parcel from 'Burnet's.'
I was caught in the thunder-storm. I was standing in a doorway not knowing what to do when
a gentleman passed--Dr. Harry Ironside, if I am to be allowed to say his name, though I did
not know it then. He was good-natured and polite, like any other gentleman. He saw how I was
encumbered, and he must have felt the pelting rain. He stopped and asked if he could do anything
for me--call a cab or anything, and he wished to give me the use of his umbrella till we reached
a cab-stand or till an omnibus came up. I thought I had better tell him why I was carrying
things, for he might have thought me just a shop-girl, so I merely said I required them for
a painting, and that I was learning to be an artist. He seemed to think he ought to tell me
in return what he was, and he said he was a doctor. Then I said father was a doctor too, Dr.
Millar of Redcross. He cried out at that something about a likeness which he had seen, and
he asked had I a sister a nurse in St. Ebbe's, and oh! Annie, he looked so pleased, and he
did say you were such a favourite with the matron and the doctors."

"Stop!" cried Annie, peremptorily, with an evident storm raging in her gentle breast, to which
she was too proud and self-restrained to give free expression, "you are a greater baby than
May is. You are not fit to be left to yourself--a girl who would speak to any man she might
meet in the streets of London, and tell him all about herself and her family."

The accusation was too outrageous to be received with anything save indignant silence.

"And then, I suppose, the next thing was you took him to Mrs. Jennings and arranged between
you that he and his sister should board there."

"I did not," Rose was goaded to speak. "When he had walked so far with me in the rain I could
not do less than invite him into the house. Then I believe he gave his name, and Mrs. Jennings,
who has a great deal of knowledge of the world and a great deal of discrimination," put in
poor Rose with much emphasis, "seemed to like him immensely. She found that one of her sons
knew relations of his in Manchester, and they had other friends in common. He spoke of his
sister, who is with him, and of their not liking living in lodgings, and who glad he would
be if there ever happened to be a vacancy in Mrs. Jennings's establishment which she would
permit them to fill. She referred him to Susan to see if there were rooms which the Ironsides
could have. It all came about quite naturally, and was settled in less time than I have taken
to tell it, and I had nothing whatever to do with it. I should not dream of taking it upon
me to interfere with Mrs. Jennings's or anybody else's domestic affairs."

"I do not know," said Annie, gloomily, "after the mess you have got yourself and other people
into. But there is one thing I can tell you for your satisfaction, I shall not put my foot
within Mrs. Jennings's door so long as he--as Dr. Ironside and his sister are staying there.
You may keep your friends to yourself and do without your sister. You can take them instead
of me; perhaps you will not miss me or care for the loss of an occasional hour or two of my
society."

"Oh! Annie, how can you say so?" Rose was reduced to expostulation and pleading. "What has
come over you? You must not stay away; it would be so unkind to me, so rude to everybody, and
such a marked slight. We are all so happy when you come to Welby Square, and I am sure the
change is good for you too. How can you be so cross?"

"No," said Annie with unbending decision, "it shall not be said of me that I went and struck
up a friendship, apart from our intercourse in the wards, with any doctor at St. Ebbe's--one
of the medical students, the other day! I am not going to make his sister's acquaintance and
get up an intimacy with her, because you have chosen to introduce them to Mrs. Jennings. A
fine story to be circulated, and tittered over, about a girl; a fine example to the working
nurses, who are always seeking to evade the rules, to become on familiar terms with their patients
and to gossip and philander with them, when they ought to have a great deal more to do. I call
it disgusting trifling, and it was not for that I came up to London to be trained as a nurse."

Annie kept her word to Rose's and other people's deep chagrin. She made no further ferment
about what had happened. She did not write home and complain of Rose's thoughtlessness, or
take a single step to prevent Mrs. Jennings securing a profitable pair of boarders--as a matter
of fact, she dropped the subject, perhaps she felt a little ashamed of the animus she had shown.
But for nearly three months, if Rose wished to see her sister, the only plan was for her to
go to St. Ebbe's, or to make an appointment with Annie at the Academy or the British Museum,
or to eat their lunch together at some convenient restaurant.

In whatever manner Annie disposed of her few spare moments, not one of them was now spent in
Welby Square--just at the time, too, when the boarding-house was particularly social and cheerful
(for the new-comers found special favour with the old, and promoted much good fellowship).
At least Dr. Harry Ironside did. He was a young fellow born to be popular whether he would
or not; handsome, with pleasant manners, kind-hearted, possessed of a respectable competence
independent of his profession, to which he brought considerable abilities and great singleness
of purpose. Everybody "took" to him, from crusty Mr. Foljambe to jaunty Mr. Lyle; from Miss
Perkins, whose ear-trumpet he improved upon, to old Susan, into whose gold-rimmed spectacles
he put new glasses which made her see like a girl again. The one drawback to his success in
everything he aimed at was, that he was always tremendously in earnest, so that his very earnestness
overweighted him, rendering him incapable of measuring obstacles, and marshalling his forces,
as a more indifferent man might have done.

His sister Kate, apart from such importance as might be implied in her finding herself presently
in the enjoyment of a very pretty little income for a young lady, was a simple, good-natured
school-girl, in the echoing and imitative stage of school-girl life. She looked up to her brother
in everything, and was disposed to regard whatever was by his decree as infallibly best.

Yes, Annie kept her word after the fashion of most of us, till she saw good reason to break
it. She announced herself changeless till she changed, which, to do her justice, was when the
interests of others, still more than her own, cried out against her maintaining her resolution.

CHAPTER XVII.

MAY HAS TO FIGHT HER OWN BATTLE.

All May's frantic efforts at resistance were useless; her destiny was too strong for her. She
had to go away from her mother and father, Dora, and Tray, and face life all by herself as
one of the girl-graduates at Thirlwall Hall, St. Ambrose's. Dr. Millar had learnt that she
would just be in reasonable time for one of the earlier examinations at the close of the term.
Having passed it without difficulty, she might compete for one of the Thirlwall scholarships.
If she got that--as he allowed himself to think she had a fair chance of doing--it would greatly
increase her status, as well as aid in defraying the expenses of her residence at St. Ambrose's.
The little Doctor was feverishly anxious to compass both ends for his pet and scholar. In her
own interest no notice must be taken of her heart-broken looks, though it wrung a manly heart,
in addition to the tender hearts of Mrs. Millar and Dora, to witness May's desperate unwillingness
to depart.

It will be better to throw a veil over the anguish of that leave-taking, including the final
closeting with Tray and the torrents of tears shed on his irresponsive hairy coat. We shall
draw up the curtain on a new scene--St. Ambrose's, in its classic glory and stately beauty,
and Thirlwall Hall, in its youthful strong-mindedness.

Poor May felt horribly forlorn when her father left her behind, and she realized that she was
for the first time in her life compelled to play her part without the support of kith or kin.
Nobody was in the least unkind to her, any more than the conservative Miss Stones had been
to Rose, unless in calling "little May" "Miss Millar," a promotion which somehow cut her to
the heart.

The lady principal, Miss Lascelles, was an excellent intellectual woman, of mingled aristocratic
and spirituelle antecedents. In another country and nation she might have been a distinguished
dame de salon. As it was, she was sufficiently harassed and overworked in her double office
of decorous, authoritative chaperon and qualified guide, philosopher, and friend to the girls
under her charge. These might be vestal virgins or nymphs of Minerva, but they were also girls,
so long as the world lasted--the most of them half curious, half friendly where May was concerned.
This was true even of the wonderful young American who came and stayed with no other object
in view than to say she had kept her terms at St. Ambrose's, according to what was the sum
total of the ambition of many a young man at the great University. She would call the Atlantic
"the herring pond," and speak of "fixing" her hair; still she was a girl like the rest of them.
Miss Lascelles, with all the other ladies in residence at Thirlwall Hall, the American included,
could not help wondering what the friends and guardians of a budding beauty and helpless baby
like Miss Millar intended by sending her to live among a set of self-reliant, amply-occupied
young women, who, as a rule, knew exactly what they wanted to do and did it.

The whole place and system overwhelmed May. The hoary dignity of the old colleges, receptacles
of the concentrated learning of ages, the crowds of capped and gowned tutors and professors,
potent representatives of the learning of the present, even the shoals of young men who were
able to care for none of these things, and to carry their responsibilities lightly, all to
be encountered in the course of a morning walk, struck May with a sense of inadjustable disproportion,
and of intolerable presumption on her part in pretending to be a scholar. She was still one
of a household largely composed of women, as she had been at home, but here the household was
planted where it was an innovation, in the midst of a colony of men, which constantly threatened
to sweep over it and submerge it.

