An international science of eugenics might in the same way indicate that the various races
should aim, not at exterminating each other, but at encouraging the improvement by each of
its own racial type. Such an idea would not appeal to those for whom the whole species arranges
itself in definite and obvious grades of 'higher' and 'lower,' from the northern Europeans
downwards, and who are as certain of the ultimate necessity of a 'white world' as the Sydney
politicians are of the necessity of a 'white Australia.' But in this respect during the last
few years the inhabitants of Europe have shown signs of a new humility, due partly to widespread
intellectual causes and partly to the hard facts of the Russo-Japanese war and the arming of
China. The 'spheres of influence' into which we divided the Far East eight years ago, seem
to us now a rather stupid joke, and those who read history are already bitterly ashamed that
we destroyed by the sack of the Summer Palace in 1859, the products of a thousand years of
such art as we can never hope to emulate. We are coming honestly to believe that the world
is richer for the existence both of other civilisations and of other racial types than our
own. We have been compelled by the study of the Christian documents to think of our religion
as one only among the religions of the world, and to acknowledge that it has owed much and
may owe much again to the longer philosophic tradition and the subtler and more patient brains
of Hindustan and Persia. Even if we look at the future of the species as a matter of pure biology,
we are warned by men of science that it is not safe to depend only on one family or one variety
for the whole breeding-stock of the world. For the moment we shrink from the interbreeding
of races, but we do so in spite of some conspicuous examples of successful interbreeding in
the past, and largely because of our complete ignorance of the conditions on which success depends.

Already, therefore, it is possible without intellectual dishonesty to look forward to a future
for the race which need not be reached through a welter of blood and hatred. We can imagine
the nations settling the racial allocation of the temperate or tropical breeding-grounds, or
even deliberately placing the males and females of the few hopelessly backward tribes on different
islands, without the necessity that the most violent passions of mankind should be stimulated
in preparation for a general war. No one now expects an immediate, or prophesies with certainty
an ultimate, Federation of the Globe; but the consciousness of a common purpose in mankind,
or even the acknowledgment that such a common purpose is possible, would alter the face of
world-politics at once. The discussion at the Hague of a halt in the race of armaments would
no longer seem Utopian, and the strenuous profession by the colonising powers that they have
no selfish ends in view might be transformed from a sordid and useless hypocrisy into a fact
to which each nation might adjust its policy. The irrational race-hatred which breaks out from
time to time on the fringes of empire, would have little effect in world politics when opposed
by a consistent conception of the future of human progress.

