THE GARIES

AND

THEIR FRIENDS

Frank J. Webb

1857

Preface by Harriet Beecher Stowe

TO THE

LADY NOEL BYRON

THIS BOOK

IS, BY HER KIND PERMISSION,

MOST AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED,

WITH PROFOUND RESPECT,

BY HER GRATEFUL FRIEND,

THE AUTHOR.

PREFACE.

The book which now appears before the public may be of interest in relation to a question which
the late agitation of the subject of slavery has raised in many thoughtful minds; viz.--Are
the race at present held as slaves capable of freedom, self-government, and progress?

The author is a coloured young man, born and reared in the city of Philadelphia.

This city, standing as it does on the frontier between free and slave territory, has accumulated
naturally a large population of the mixed and African race.

Being one of the nearest free cities of any considerable size to the slave territory, it has
naturally been a resort of escaping fugitives, or of emancipated slaves.

In this city they form a large class--have increased in numbers, wealth, and standing--they
constitute a peculiar society of their own, presenting many social peculiarities worthy of
interest and attention.

The representations of their positions as to wealth and education are reliable, the incidents
related are mostly true ones, woven together by a slight web of fiction.

The scenes of the mob describe incidents of a peculiar stage of excitement, which existed in
the city of Philadelphia years ago, when the first agitation of the slavery question developed
an intense form of opposition to the free coloured people.

Southern influence at that time stimulated scenes of mob violence in several Northern cities
where the discussion was attempted. By prompt, undaunted resistance, however, this spirit was
subdued, and the right of free inquiry established; so that discussion of the question, so
far from being dangerous in Free States, is now begun to be allowed in the Slave States; and
there are some subjects the mere discussion of which is a half-victory.

The author takes pleasure in recommending this simple and truthfully-told story to the attention
and interest of the friends of progress and humanity in England.

(Signed) H.B. Stowe.

ANDOVER, U.S.,

August 17, 1857.

FROM LORD BROUGHAM.

I have been requested by one who has long known the deep interest I have ever taken in the
cause of Freedom, and in the elevation of the coloured race, to supply a few lines of introduction
to Mr. Webb's book.

It was the intention of Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe to introduce this work to the British public,
but I am truly sorry to learn that a severe domestic affliction, since her return to America,
has postponed the fulfilment of her promise.

I am, however, able to state her opinion of the book, expressed in a letter to one of her friends.

She says:--"There are points in the book of which I think very highly. The style is simple
and unambitious--the characters, most of them faithfully drawn from real life, are quite fresh,
and the incident, which is also much of it fact, is often deeply interesting.

"I shall do what I can with the preface. I would not do as much unless I thought the book of
worth in itself. It shows what I long have wanted to show; what the free people of colour do
attain, and what they can do in spite of all social obstacles."

I hope and trust that Mr. Webb's book will meet with all the success to which its own merit,
and the great interest of the subject, so well entitle it. On this, Mrs. Stowe's authority
is naturally of the greatest weight; and I can only lament that this prefatory notice does
not come accompanied with her further remarks and illustrations.

4, Grafton-street, July 29, 1857.

       *       *       *       *       *

Note.--Since the above was written, the preface by Mrs. Stowe has been received. It was deemed
best, however, to still retain the introduction so kindly given by Lord Brougham, whose deep
interest in the freedom and welfare of the African race none feel more grateful for than does
the author of the following pages.

CONTENTS

1.--In which the Reader is introduced to a Family of Peculiar Construction

2.--A Glance at the Ellis Family

3.--Charlie's Trials

4.--In which Mr. Winston finds an Old Friend

5.--The Garies decide on a Change

6.--Pleasant News

7.--Mrs. Thomas has her Troubles

8.--Trouble in the Ellis Family

9.--Breaking up

10.--Another Parting

11.--The New Home

12.--Mr. Garie's Neighbour

13.--Hopes consummated

14.--Charlie at Warmouth

15.--Mrs. Stevens gains a Triumph

16.--Mr. Stevens makes a Discovery

17.--Plotting

18.--Mr. Stevens falls into Bad Hands

19.--The Alarm

20.--The Attack

21.--More Horrors

22.--An Anxious Day

23.--The Lost One Found

24.--Charlie distinguishes himself

25.--The Heir

26.--Home again

27.--Sudbury

28.--Charlie seeks Employment

29.--Clouds and Sunshine

30.--Many Years after

31.--The Thorn rankles

32.--Dear Old Ess again

33.--The Fatal Discovery

34.--"Murder will out"

35.--The Wedding

36.--And the Last

CHAPTER I.

In which the Reader is introduced to a Family of peculiar Construction.

It was at the close of an afternoon in May, that a party might have been seen gathered around
a table covered with all those delicacies that, in the household of a rich Southern planter,
are regarded as almost necessaries of life. In the centre stood a dish of ripe strawberries,
their plump red sides peeping through the covering of white sugar that had been plentifully
sprinkled over them. Geeche limes, almost drowned in their own rich syrup, temptingly displayed
their bronze-coloured forms just above the rim of the glass that contained them. Opposite,
and as if to divert the gaze from lingering too long over their luscious beauty, was a dish
of peaches preserved in brandy, a never-failing article in a Southern matron's catalogues of
sweets. A silver basket filled with a variety of cakes was in close proximity to a plate of
corn-flappers, which were piled upon it like a mountain, and from the brown tops of which trickled
tiny rivulets of butter. All these dainties, mingling their various odours with the aroma of
the tea and fine old java that came steaming forth from the richly chased silver pots, could
not fail to produce a very appetising effect.

There was nothing about Mr. Garie, the gentleman who sat at the head of the table, to attract
more than ordinary attention. He had the ease of manner usual with persons whose education
and associations have been of a highly refined character, and his countenance, on the whole,
was pleasing, and indicative of habitual good temper.

Opposite to him, and presiding at the tea-tray, sat a lady of marked beauty. The first thing
that would have attracted attention on seeing her were her gloriously dark eyes. They were
not entirely black, but of that seemingly changeful hue so often met with in persons of African
extraction, which deepens and lightens with every varying emotion. Hers wore a subdued expression
that sank into the heart and at once riveted those who saw her. Her hair, of jetty black, was
arranged in braids; and through her light-brown complexion the faintest tinge of carmine was
visible. As she turned to take her little girl from the arms of the servant, she displayed
a fine profile and perfectly moulded form. No wonder that ten years before, when she was placed
upon the auction-block at Savanah, she had brought so high a price. Mr. Garie had paid two
thousand dollars for her, and was the envy of all the young bucks in the neighbourhood who
had competed with him at the sale. Captivated by her beauty, he had esteemed himself fortunate
in becoming her purchaser; and as time developed the goodness of her heart, and her mind enlarged
through the instructions he assiduously gave her, he found the connection that might have been
productive of many evils, had proved a boon to both; for whilst the astonishing progress she
made in her education proved her worthy of the pains he took to instruct her, she returned
threefold the tenderness and affection he lavished upon her.

The little girl in her arms, and the boy at her side, showed no trace whatever of African origin.
The girl had the chestnut hair and blue eyes of her father; but the boy had inherited the black
hair and dark eyes of his mother. The critically learned in such matters, knowing his parentage,
might have imagined they could detect the evidence of his mother's race, by the slightly mezzo-tinto
expression of his eyes, and the rather African fulness of his lips; but the casual observer
would have passed him by without dreaming that a drop of negro blood coursed through his veins.
His face was expressive of much intelligence, and he now seemed to listen with an earnest interest
to the conversation that was going on between his father and a dark-complexioned gentleman
who sat beside him.

"And so you say, Winston, that they never suspected you were coloured?"

"I don't think they had the remotest idea of such a thing. At least, if they did, they must
have conquered their prejudices most effectually, for they treated me with the most distinguished
consideration. Old Mr. Priestly was like a father to me; and as for his daughter Clara and
her aunt, they were politeness embodied. The old gentleman was so much immersed in business,
that he was unable to bestow much attention upon me; so he turned me over to Miss Clara to
be shown the lions. We went to the opera, the theatre, to museums, concerts, and I can't tell
where all. The Sunday before I left I accompanied her to church, and after service, as we were
coming out, she introduced me to Miss Van Cote and her mamma. Mrs. Van Cote was kind enough
to invite me to her grand ball."

"And did you go?" interrupted Mr. Garie.

"Of course, I did--and what is more, as old Mr. Priestly has given up balls, he begged me to
escort Clara and her aunt."

"Well, Winston, that is too rich," exclaimed Mr. Garie, slapping his hand on the table, and
laughing till he was red in the face; "too good, by Jove! Oh! I can't keep that. I must write
to them, and say I forgot to mention in my note of introduction that you were a coloured gentleman.
The old man will swear till everything turns blue; and as for Clara, what will become of her?
A Fifth-avenue belle escorted to church and to balls by a coloured gentleman!" Here Mr. Garie
indulged in another burst of laughter so side-shaking and merry, that the contagion spread
even to the little girl in Mrs. Garie's arms, who almost choked herself with the tea her mother
was giving her, and who had to be hustled and shaken for some time before she could be brought
round again.

"It will be a great triumph for me," said Mr. Garie. "The old man prides himself on being able
to detect evidences of the least drop of African blood in any one; and makes long speeches
about the natural antipathy of the Anglo-Saxon to anything with a drop of negro blood in its
veins. Oh, I shall write him a glorious letter expressing my pleasure at his great change of
sentiment, and my admiration of the fearless manner in which he displays his contempt for public
opinion. How he will stare! I fancy I see him now, with his hair almost on end with disgust.
It will do him good: it will convince him, I hope, that a man can be a gentleman even though
he has African blood in his veins. I have had a series of quarrels with him," continued Mr.
Garie; "I think he had his eye on me for Miss Clara, and that makes him particularly fierce
about my present connection. He rather presumes on his former great intimacy with my father,
and undertakes to lecture me occasionally when opportunity is afforded. He was greatly scandalized
at my speaking of Emily as my wife; and seemed to think me cracked because I talked of endeavouring
to procure a governess for my children, or of sending them abroad to be educated. He has a
holy horror of everything approaching to amalgamation; and of all the men I ever met, cherishes
the most unchristian prejudice against coloured people. He says, the existence of "a gentleman"
with African blood in his veins, is a moral and physical impossibility, and that by no exertion
can anything be made of that description of people. He is connected with a society for the
deportation of free coloured people, and thinks they ought to be all sent to Africa, unless
they are willing to become the property of some good master."

"Oh, yes; it is quite a hobby of his," here interposed Mr. Winston. "He makes lengthy speeches
on the subject, and has published two of them in pamphlet form. Have you seen them?"

"Yes, he sent them to me. I tried to get through one of them, but it was too heavy, I had to
give it up. Besides, I had no patience with them; they abounded in mis-statements respecting
the free coloured people. Why even here in the slave states--in the cities of Savanah and Charleston--they
are much better situated than he describes them to be in New York; and since they can and do
prosper here, where they have such tremendous difficulties to encounter, I know they cannot
be in the condition he paints, in a state where they are relieved from many of the oppressions
they labour under here. And, on questioning him on the subject, I found he was entirely unacquainted
with coloured people; profoundly ignorant as to the real facts of their case. He had never
been within a coloured church or school; did not even know that they had a literary society
amongst them. Positively, I, living down here in Georgia, knew more about the character and
condition of the coloured people of the Northern States, than he who lived right in the midst
of them. Would you believe that beyond their laundress and a drunken negro that they occasionally
employed to do odd jobs for them, they were actually unacquainted with any coloured people:
and how unjust was it for him to form his opinion respecting a class numbering over twenty
thousand in his own state, from the two individuals I have mentioned and the negro loafers
he occasionally saw in the streets."

"It is truly unfortunate," rejoined Mr. Winston, "for he covers his prejudices with such a
pretended regard for the coloured people, that a person would be the more readily led to believe
his statements respecting them to be correct; and he is really so positive about it, and apparently
go deaf to all argument that I did not discuss the subject with him to any extent; he was so
very kind to me that I did not want to run a tilt against his favourite opinions."

"You wrote me he gave you letters to Philadelphia; was there one amongst them to the Mortons?"

"Yes. They were very civil and invited me to a grand dinner they gave to the Belgian Charge
d'Affaires. I also met there one or two scions of the first families of Virginia. The Belgian
minister did not seem to be aware that slavery is a tabooed subject in polite circles, and
he was continually bringing it forward until slaves, slavery, and black people in general became
the principal topic of conversation, relieved by occasional discussion upon some new book or
pictures, and remarks in praise of the viands before us. A very amusing thing occurred during
dinner. A bright-faced little coloured boy who was assisting at the table, seemed to take uncommon
interest in the conversation. An animated discussion had arisen as to the antiquity of the
use of salad, one party maintaining that one of the oldest of the English poets had mentioned
it in a poem, and the other as stoutly denying it. At last a reverend gentleman, whose remarks
respecting the intelligence of the children of Ham had been particularly disparaging, asserted
that nowhere in Chaucer, Spencer, nor any of the old English poets could anything relating
to it be found. At this, the little waiter became so excited that he could no longer contain
himself, and, despite the frowns and nods of our hostess, exclaimed, 'Yes it can, it's in Chaucer;
here,' he continued, taking out a book from the book-case, 'here is the very volume,'[*] and
turning over the leaves he pointed out the passage, to the great chagrin of the reverend gentleman,
and to the amusement of the guests. The Belgian minister enjoyed it immensely. 'Ah,' said he,
'the child of Ham know more than the child of Shem, dis time.' Whereupon Mrs. Morton rejoined
that in this case it was not so wonderful, owing to the frequent and intimate relations into
which ham and salad were brought, and with this joke the subject was dismissed. I can't say
I was particularly sorry when the company broke up."

[Footnote * See Chaucer, "Flower and the Leaf."]

"Oh, George, never mind the white people," here interposed Mrs. Garie. "Never mind them; tell
us about the coloured folks; they are the ones I take the most interest in. We were so delighted
with your letters, and so glad that you found Mrs. Ellis. Tell us all about that."

"Oh, 'tis a long story, Em, and can't be told in a minute; it would take the whole evening
to relate it all."

"Look at the children, my dear, they are half asleep," said Mr. Garie. "Call nurse and see
them safe into bed, and when you come back we will have the whole story."

"Very well;" replied she, rising and calling the nurse. "Now remember, George, you are not
to begin until I return, for I should be quite vexed to lose a word."

"Oh, go on with the children, my dear, I'll guarantee he shall not say a word on the subject
till you come back."

With this assurance Mrs. Garie left the room, playfully shaking her finger at them as she went
out, exclaiming, "Not a word, remember now, not a word."

After she left them Mr. Garie remarked, "I have not seen Em as happy as she is this afternoon
for some time. I don't know what has come over her lately; she scarcely ever smiles now, and
yet she used to be the most cheerful creature in the world. I wish I knew what is the matter
with her; sometimes I am quite distressed about her. She goes about the house looking so lost
and gloomy, and does not seem to take the least interest in anything. You saw," continued he,
"how silent she has been all tea time, and yet she has been more interested in what you have
been saying than in anything that has transpired for months. Well, I suppose women will be
so sometimes," he concluded, applying himself to the warm cakes that had just been set upon
the table.

"Perhaps she is not well," suggested Mr. Winston, "I think she looks a little pale."

"Well, possibly you may be right, but I trust it is only a temporary lowness of spirits or
something of that kind. Maybe she will get over it in a day or two;" and with this remark the
conversation dropped, and the gentlemen proceeded to the demolition of the sweetmeats before
them. And now, my reader, whilst they are finishing their meal, I will relate to you who Mr.
Winston is, and how he came to be so familiarly seated at Mr. Garie's table.

Mr. Winston had been a slave. Yes! that fine-looking gentleman seated near Mr. Garie and losing
nothing by the comparison that their proximity would suggest, had been fifteen years before
sold on the auction-block in the neighbouring town of Savanah--had been made to jump, show
his teeth, shout to test his lungs, and had been handled and examined by professed negro traders
and amateur buyers, with less gentleness and commiseration than every humane man would feel
for a horse or an ox. Now do not doubt me--I mean that very gentleman, whose polished manners
and irreproachable appearance might have led you to suppose him descended from a long line
of illustrious ancestors. Yes--he was the offspring of a mulatto field-hand by her master.
He who was now clothed in fine linen, had once rejoiced in a tow shirt that scarcely covered
his nakedness, and had sustained life on a peck of corn a week, receiving the while kicks and
curses from a tyrannical overseer.

The death of his master had brought him to the auction-block, from which, both he and his mother
were sold to separate owners. There they took their last embrace of each other--the mother
tearless, but heart-broken--the boy with all the wildest manifestations of grief.

His purchaser was a cotton broker from New Orleans, a warm-hearted, kind old man, who took
a fancy to the boy's looks, and pitied him for his unfortunate separation from his mother.
After paying for his new purchase, he drew him aside, and said, in a kind tone, "Come, my little
man, stop crying; my boys never cry. If you behave yourself you shall have fine times with
me. Stop crying now, and come with me; I am going to buy you a new suit of clothes."

"I don't want new clothes--I want my mammy," exclaimed the child, with a fresh burst of grief.

"Oh dear me!" said the fussy old gentleman, "why can't you stop--I don't want to hear you cry.
Here," continued he, fumbling in his pocket--"here's a picayune."

"Will that buy mother back?" said the child brightening up.

"No, no, my little man, not quite--I wish it would. I'd purchase the old woman; but I can't--I'm
not able to spare the money."

"Then I don't want it," cried the boy, throwing the money on the ground. "If it won't buy mammy,
I don't want it. I want my mammy, and nothing else."

At length, by much kind language, and by the prospect of many fabulous events to occur hereafter,
invented at the moment by the old gentleman, the boy was coaxed into a more quiescent state,
and trudged along in the rear of Mr. Moyese--that was the name of his purchaser--to be fitted
with the new suit of clothes.

The next morning they started by the stage for Augusta. George, seated on the box with the
driver, found much to amuse him; and the driver's merry chat and great admiration of George's
new and gaily-bedizened suit, went a great way towards reconciling that young gentleman to
his new situation.

In a few days they arrived in New Orleans. There, under the kind care of Mr. Moyese, he began
to exhibit great signs of intelligence. The atmosphere into which he was now thrown, the kindness
of which he was hourly the recipient, called into vigour abilities that would have been stifled
for ever beneath the blighting influences that surrounded him under his former master. The
old gentleman had him taught to read and write, and his aptness was such as to highly gratify
the kind old soul.

In course of time, the temporary absence of an out-door clerk caused George's services to be
required at the office for a few days, as errand-boy. Here he made himself so useful as to
induce Mr. Moyese to keep him there permanently. After this he went through all the grades
from errand-boy up to chief-clerk, which post he filled to the full satisfaction of his employer.
His manners and person improved with his circumstances; and at the time he occupied the chief-clerk's
desk, no one would have suspected him to be a slave, and few who did not know his history would
have dreamed that he had a drop of African blood in his veins. He was unremitting in his attention
to the duties of his station, and gained, by his assiduity and amiable deportment, the highest
regard of his employer.

A week before a certain New-year's-day, Mr. Moyese sat musing over some presents that had just
been sent home, and which he was on the morrow to distribute amongst his nephews and nieces.
"Why, bless me!" he suddenly exclaimed, turning them over, "why, I've entirely forgotten George!
That will never do; I must get something for him. What shall it be? He has a fine watch, and
I gave him a pin and ring last year. I really don't know what will be suitable," and he sat
for some time rubbing his chin, apparently in deep deliberation. "Yes, I'll do it!" he exclaimed,
starting up; "I'll do it! He has been a faithful fellow, and deserves it. I'll make him a present
of himself! Now, how strange it is I never thought of that before--it's just the thing;--how
surprised and delighted he will be!" and the old gentleman laughed a low, gentle, happy laugh,
that had in it so little of selfish pleasure, that had you only heard him you must have loved
him for it.

Having made up his mind to surprise George in this agreeable manner, Mr. Moyese immediately
wrote a note, which he despatched to his lawyers, Messrs. Ketchum and Lee, desiring them to
make out a set of free papers for his boy George, and to have them ready for delivery on the
morrow, as it was his custom to give his presents two or three days in advance of the coming year.

The note found Mr. Ketchum deep in a disputed will case, upon the decision of which depended
the freedom of some half-dozen slaves, who had been emancipated by the will of their late master;
by which piece of posthumous benevolence his heirs had been greatly irritated, and were in
consequence endeavouring to prove him insane.

"Look at that, Lee," said he, tossing the note to his partner; "if that old Moyese isn't the
most curious specimen of humanity in all New Orleans! He is going to give away clear fifteen
hundred dollars as a New-year's gift!"

"To whom?" asked Mr. Lee.

"He has sent me orders," replied Mr. Ketchum, "to make out a set of free papers for his boy
George."

"Well, I can't say that I see so much in that," said Lee; "how can he expect to keep him? George
is almost as white as you or I, and has the manners and appearance of a gentleman. He might
walk off any day without the least fear of detection."

"Very true," rejoined Ketchum, "but I don't think he would do it. He is very much attached
to the old gentleman, and no doubt would remain with him as long as the old man lives. But
I rather think the heirs would have to whistle for him after Moyese was put under ground. However,"
concluded Mr. Ketchum, "they won't have much opportunity to dispute the matter, as he will
be a free man, no doubt, before he is forty-eight hours older."

A day or two after this, Mr. Moyese entertained all his nephews and nieces at dinner, and each
was gratified with some appropriate gift. The old man sat happily regarding the group that
crowded round him, their faces beaming with delight. The claim for the seat of honour on Uncle
Moyese's knee was clamorously disputed, and the old gentleman was endeavouring to settle it
to the satisfaction of all parties, when a servant entered, and delivered a portentous-looking
document, tied with red tape. "Oh, the papers--now, my dears, let uncle go. Gustave, let go
your hold of my leg, or I can't get up. Amy, ring the bell, dear." This operation Mr. Moyese
was obliged to lift her into the chair to effect, where she remained tugging at the bell-rope
until she was lifted out again by the servant, who came running in great haste to answer a
summons of such unusual vigour.

"Tell George I want him," said Mr. Moyese.

"He's gone down to the office; I hearn him say suffin bout de nordern mail as he went out--but
I duno what it was"--and as he finished he vanished from the apartment, and might soon after
have been seen with his mouth in close contact with the drumstick of a turkey.

Mr. Moyese being now released from the children, took his way to the office, with the portentous
red-tape document that was to so greatly change the condition of George Winston in his coat
pocket. The old man sat down at his desk, smiling, as he balanced the papers in his hand, at
the thought of the happiness he was about to confer on his favourite. He was thus engaged when
the door opened, and George entered, bearing some newly-arrived orders from European correspondents,
in reference to which he sought Mr. Moyese's instructions.

"I think, sir," said he, modestly, "that we had better reply at once to Ditson, and send him
the advance he requires, as he will not otherwise be able to fill these;" and as he concluded
he laid the papers on the table, and stood waiting orders respecting them.

Mr. Moyese laid down the packet, and after looking over the papers George had brought in, replied:
"I think we had. Write to him to draw upon us for the amount he requires.--And, George," he
continued, looking at him benevolently, "what would you like for a New-year's present?"

"Anything you please, sir," was the respectful reply.

"Well, George," resumed Mr. Moyese, "I have made up my mind to make you a present of----" here
he paused and looked steadily at him for a few seconds; and then gravely handing him the papers,
concluded, "of yourself, George! Now mind and don't throw my present away, my boy." George
stood for some moments looking in a bewildered manner, first at his master, then at the papers.
At last the reality of his good fortune broke fully upon him, and he sank into a chair, and
unable to say more than: "God bless you, Mr. Moyese!" burst into tears.

"Now you are a pretty fellow," said the old man, sobbing himself, "it's nothing to cry about--get
home as fast as you can, you stupid cry-baby, and mind you are here early in the morning, sir,
for I intend to pay you five hundred dollars a-year, and I mean you to earn it," and thus speaking
he bustled out of the room, followed by George's repeated "God bless you!" That "God bless
you" played about his ears at night, and soothed him to sleep; in dreams he saw it written
in diamond letters on a golden crown, held towards him by a hand outstretched from the azure
above. He fancied the birds sang it to him in his morning walk, and that he heard it in the
ripple of the little stream that flowed at the foot of his garden. So he could afford to smile
when his relatives talked about his mistaken generosity, and could take refuge in that fervent
"God bless you!"

Six years after this event Mr. Moyese died, leaving George a sufficient legacy to enable him
to commence business on his own account. As soon as he had arranged his affairs, he started
for his old home, to endeavour to gain by personal exertions what he had been unable to learn
through the agency of others--a knowledge of the fate of his mother. He ascertained that she
had been sold and re-sold, and had finally died in New Orleans, not more than three miles from
where he had been living. He had not even the melancholy satisfaction of finding her grave.
During his search for his mother he had become acquainted with Emily, the wife of Mr. Garie,
and discovered that she was his cousin; and to this was owing the familiar footing on which
we find him in the household where we first introduced him to our readers.

Mr. Winston had just returned from a tour through the Northern States, where he had been in
search of a place in which to establish himself in business.

The introductions with which Mr. Garie had kindly favoured him, had enabled him to see enough
of Northern society to convince him, that, amongst the whites, he could not form either social
or business connections, should his identity with, the African race be discovered; and whilst,
on the other hand, he would have found sufficiently refined associations amongst the people
of colour to satisfy his social wants, he felt that he could not bear the isolation and contumely
to which they were subjected. He, therefore, decided on leaving the United States, and on going
to some country where, if he must struggle for success in life, he might do it without the
additional embarrassments that would be thrown in his way in his native land, solely because
he belonged to an oppressed race.

CHAPTER II.

A Glance at the Ellis Family.

"I wish Charlie would come with that tea," exclaimed Mrs. Ellis, who sat finishing off some
work, which had to go home that evening. "I wonder what can keep him so long away. He has been
gone over an hour; it surely cannot take him that time to go to Watson's."

"It is a great distance, mother," said Esther Ellis, who was busily plying her needle; "and
I don't think he has been quite so long as you suppose."

"Yes; he has been gone a good hour," repeated Mrs. Ellis. "It is now six o'clock, and it wanted
three minutes to five when he left. I do hope he won't forget that I told him half black and
half green--he is so forgetful!" And Mrs. Ellis rubbed her spectacles and looked peevishly
out of the window as she concluded.--"Where can he be?" she resumed, looking in the direction
in which he might be expected. "Oh, here he comes, and Caddy with him. They have just turned
the corner--open the door and let them in."

Esther arose, and on opening the door was almost knocked down by Charlie's abrupt entrance
into the apartment, he being rather forcibly shoved in by his sister Caroline, who appeared
to be in a high state of indignation.

"Where do you think he was, mother? Where do you think I found him?"

"Well, I can't say--I really don't know; in some mischief, I'll be bound."

"He was on the lot playing marbles--and I've had such a time to get him home. Just look at
his knees; they are worn through. And only think, mother, the tea was lying on the ground,
and might have been carried off, if I had not happened to come that way. And then he has been
fighting and struggling with me all the way home. See," continued she, baring her arm, "just
look how he has scratched me," and as she spoke she held out the injured member for her mother's
inspection.

"Mother," said Charlie, in his justification, "she began to beat me before all the boys, before
I had said a word to her, and I wasn't going to stand that. She is always storming at me. She
don't give me any peace of my life."

"Oh yes, mother," here interposed Esther; "Cad is too cross to him. I must say, that he would
not be as bad as he is, if she would only let him alone."

"Esther, please hush now; you have nothing to do with their quarrels. I'll settle all their
differences. You always take his part whether he be right or wrong. I shall send him to bed
without his tea, and to-morrow I will take his marbles from him; and if I see his knees showing
through his pants again, I'll put a red patch on them--that's what I'll do. Now, sir, go to
bed, and don't let me hear of you until morning."

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis were at the head of a highly respectable and industrious coloured family.
They had three children. Esther, the eldest, was a girl of considerable beauty, and amiable
temper. Caroline, the second child, was plain in person, and of rather shrewish disposition;
she was a most indefatigable housewife, and was never so happy as when in possession of a dust
or scrubbing brush; she would have regarded a place where she could have lived in a perpetual
state of house cleaning, as an earthly paradise. Between her and Master Charlie continued warfare
existed, interrupted only by brief truces brought about by her necessity for his services as
water-carrier. When a service of this character had been duly rewarded by a slice of bread
and preserves, or some other dainty, hostilities would most probably be recommenced by Charlie's
making an inroad upon the newly cleaned floor, and leaving the prints of his muddy boots thereon.

The fact must here be candidly stated, that Charlie was not a tidy boy. He despised mats, and
seldom or never wiped his feet on entering the house; he was happiest when he could don his
most dilapidated unmentionables, as he could then sit down where he pleased without the fear
of his mother before his eyes, and enter upon a game of marbles with his mind perfectly free
from all harassing cares growing out of any possible accident to the aforesaid garments, so
that he might give that attention to the game that its importance demanded.

He was a bright-faced pretty boy, clever at his lessons, and a favourite both with tutors and
scholars. He had withal a thorough boy's fondness for play, and was also characterised by all
the thoughtlessness consequent thereon. He possessed a lively, affectionate disposition, and
was generally at peace with all the world, his sister Caddy excepted.

Caroline had recovered her breath, and her mind being soothed by the judgment that had been
pronounced on Master Charlie, she began to bustle about to prepare tea.

The shining copper tea-kettle was brought from the stove where it had been seething and singing
for the last half-hour; then the tea-pot of china received its customary quantity of tea, which
was set upon the stove to brew, and carefully placed behind the stove pipe that no accidental
touch of the elbow might bring it to destruction. Plates, knives, and teacups came rattling
forth from the closet; the butter was brought from the place where it had been placed to keep
it cool, and a corn-cake was soon smoking on the table, and sending up its seducing odour into
the room over-head to which Charlie had been recently banished, causing to that unfortunate
young gentleman great physical discomfort.

"Now, mother," said the bustling Caddy, "it's all ready. Come now and sit down whilst the cake
is hot--do put up the sewing, Esther, and come!"

Neither Esther nor her mother needed much pressing, and they were accordingly soon seated round
the table on which their repast was spread.

"Put away a slice of this cake for father," said Mrs. Ellis, "for he won't be home until late;
he is obliged to attend a vestry meeting to-night."

Mrs. Ellis sat for some time sipping the fragrant and refreshing tea. When the contents of
two or three cups one after another had disappeared, and sundry slices of corn-bread had been
deposited where much corn-bread had been deposited before, she began to think about Charlie,
and to imagine that perhaps she had been rather hasty in sending him to bed without his supper.

"What had Charlie to-day in his dinner-basket to take to school with him?" she inquired of Caddy.

"Why, mother, I put in enough for a wolf; three or four slices of bread, with as many more
of corn-beef, some cheese, one of those little pies, and all that bread-pudding which was left
at dinner yesterday--he must have had enough."

"But, mother, you know he always gives away the best part of his dinner," interposed Esther.
"He supplies two or three boys with food. There is that dirty Kinch that he is so fond of,
who never takes any dinner with him, and depends entirely upon Charlie. He must be hungry;
do let him come down and get his tea, mother?"

Notwithstanding the observations of Caroline that Esther was just persuading her mother to
spoil the boy, that he would be worse than ever, and many other similar predictions. Esther
and the tea combined won a signal triumph, and Charlie was called down from the room above,
where he had been exchanging telegraphic communications with the before-mentioned Kinch, in
hopes of receiving a commutation of sentence.

Charlie was soon seated at the table with an ample allowance of corn-bread and tea, and he
looked so demure, and conducted himself in such an exemplary manner, that one would have scarcely
thought him given to marbles and dirty company. Having eaten to his satisfaction he quite ingratiated
himself with Caddy by picking up all the crumbs he had spilled during tea, and throwing them
upon the dust-heap. This last act was quite a stroke of policy, as even Caddy began to regard
him as capable of reformation.

The tea-things washed up and cleared away, the females busied themselves with their sewing,
and Charlie immersed himself in his lessons for the morrow with a hearty goodwill and perseverance
as if he had abjured marbles for ever.

The hearty supper and persevering attention to study soon began to produce their customary
effect upon Charlie. He could not get on with his lessons. Many of the state capitals positively
refused to be found, and he was beginning to entertain the sage notion that probably some of
the legislatures had come to the conclusion to dispense with them altogether, or had had them
placed in such obscure places that they could not be found. The variously coloured states began
to form a vast kaleidoscope, in which the lakes and rivers had been entirely swallowed up.
Ranges of mountains disappeared, and gulfs and bays and islands were entirely lost. In fact,
he was sleepy, and had already had two or three narrow escapes from butting over the candles;
finally he fell from his chair, crushing Caddy's newly-trimmed bonnet, to the intense grief
and indignation of that young lady, who inflicted summary vengeance upon him before he was
sufficiently awake to be aware of what had happened.

The work being finished, Mrs. Ellis and Caddy prepared to take it home to Mrs. Thomas, leaving
Esther at home to receive her father on his return and give him his tea.

Mrs. Ellis and Caddy wended their way towards the fashionable part of the city, looking in
at the various shop-windows as they went. Numberless were the great bargains they saw there
displayed, and divers were the discussions they held respecting them. "Oh, isn't that a pretty
calico, mother, that with the green ground?"

"'Tis pretty, but it won't wash, child; those colours always run."

"Just look at that silk though--now that's cheap, you must acknowledge--only eighty-seven and
a half cents; if I only had a dress of that I should be fixed."

"Laws, Caddy!" replied Mrs. Ellis, "that stuff is as slazy as a washed cotton handkerchief,
and coarse enough almost to sift sand through. It wouldn't last you any time. The silks they
make now-a-days ain't worth anything; they don't wear well at all. Why," continued she, "when
I was a girl they made silks that would stand on end--and one of them would last a life-time."

They had now reached Chestnut-street, which was filled with gaily-dressed people, enjoying
the balmy breath of a soft May evening. Mrs. Ellis and Caddy walked briskly onward, and were
soon beyond the line of shops, and entered upon the aristocratic quarter into which many of
its residents had retired, that they might be out of sight of the houses in which their fathers
or grandfathers had made their fortunes.

"Mother," said Caddy, "this is Mr. Grant's new house--isn't it a splendid place? They say it's
like a palace inside. They are great people, them Grants. I saw in the newspaper yesterday
that young Mr. Augustus Grant had been appointed an attache to the American legation at Paris;
the newspapers say he is a rising man."

"Well, he ought to be," rejoined Mrs. Ellis, "for his old grand-daddy made yeast enough to
raise the whole family. Many a pennyworth has he sold me. Laws! how the poor old folk do get
up! I think I can see the old man now, with his sleeves rolled up, dealing out his yeast. He
wore one coat for about twenty years, and used to be always bragging about it."

As they were thus talking, a door of one of the splendid mansions they were passing opened,
and a fashionably-dressed young man came slowly down the steps, and walked on before them with
a very measured step and peculiar gait.

"That's young Dr. Whiston, mother," whispered Caddy; "he's courting young Miss Morton."

"You don't say so!" replied the astonished Mrs. Ellis. "Why, I declare his grandfather laid
her grandfather out! Old Whiston was an undertaker, and used to make the handsomest coffins
of his time. And he is going to marry Miss Morton! What next, I'd like to know! He walks exactly
like the old man. I used to mock him when I was a little girl. He had just that hop-and-go
kind of gait, and he was the funniest man that ever lived. I've seen him at a funeral go into
the parlour, and condole with the family, and talk about the dear departed until the tears
rolled down his cheeks; and then he'd be down in the kitchen, eating and drinking, and laughing,
and telling jokes about the corpses, before the tears were dry on his face. How he used to
make money! He buried almost all the respectable people about town, and made a large fortune.
He owned a burying-ground in Coates-street, and when the property in that vicinity became valuable,
he turned the dead folks out, and built houses on the ground!"

"I shouldn't say it was a very pleasant place to live in, if there are such things as ghosts,"
said Caddy, laughing; "I for one wouldn't like to live there--but here we are at Mr. Thomas's--how
short the way has seemed!"

Caroline gave a fierce rap at the door, which was opened by old Aunt Rachel, the fat cook,
who had lived with the Thomases for a fabulous length of time. She was an old woman when Mrs.
Ellis came as a girl into the family, and had given her many a cuff in days long past; in fact,
notwithstanding Mrs. Ellis had been married many years, and had children almost as old as she
herself was when she left Mr. Thomas, Aunt Rachel could never be induced to regard her otherwise
than as a girl.

"Oh, it's you, is it?" said she gruffly, as she opened the door; "don't you think better break
de door down at once-rapping as if you was guine to tear off de knocker--is dat de way, gal,
you comes to quality's houses? You lived here long nuff to larn better dan dat--and dis is
twice I've been to de door in de last half-hour--if any one else comes dere they may stay outside.
Shut de door after you, and come into de kitchen, and don't keep me standin' here all night,"
added she, puffing and blowing as she waddled back into her sanctum.

Waiting until the irate old cook had recovered her breath, Mrs. Ellis modestly inquired if
Mrs. Thomas was at home. "Go up and see," was the surly response. "You've been up stars often
enuff to know de way--go long wid you, gal, and don't be botherin' me, 'case I don't feel like
bein' bothered--now, mind I tell yer.--Here, you Cad, set down on dis stool, and let that cat
alone; I don't let any one play with my cat," continued she, "and you'll jest let him alone,
if you please, or I'll make you go sit in de entry till your mother's ready to go. I don't
see what she has you brats tugging after her for whenever she comes here--she might jest as
well leave yer at home to darn your stockings--I 'spect dey want it."

Poor Caddy was boiling over with wrath; but deeming prudence the better part of valour, she
did not venture upon any wordy contest with Aunt Rachel, but sat down upon the stool by the
fire-place, in which a bright fire was blazing. Up the chimney an old smoke-jack was clicking,
whirling, and making the most dismal noise imaginable. This old smoke-jack was Aunt Rachel's
especial protege, and she obstinately and successfully defended it against all comers. She
turned up her nose at all modern inventions designed for the same use as entirely beneath her
notice. She had been accustomed to hearing its rattle for the last forty years, and would as
soon have thought of committing suicide as consenting to its removal.

She and her cat were admirably matched; he was as snappish and cross as she, and resented with
distended claws and elevated back all attempts on the part of strangers to cultivate amicable
relations with him. In fact, Tom's pugnacious disposition was clearly evidenced by his appearance;
one side of his face having a very battered aspect, and the fur being torn off his back in
several places.

Caddy sat for some time surveying the old woman and her cat, in evident awe of both. She regarded
also with great admiration the scrupulously clean and shining kitchen tins that garnished the
walls and reflected the red light of the blazing fire. The wooden dresser was a miracle of
whiteness, and ranged thereon was a set of old-fashioned blue china, on which was displayed
the usual number of those unearthly figures which none but the Chinese can create. Tick, tick,
went the old Dutch clock in the corner, and the smoke-jack kept up its whirring noise. Old
Tom and Aunt Rachel were both napping; and so Caddy, having no other resource, went to sleep also.

Mrs. Ellis found her way without any difficulty to Mrs. Thomas's room. Her gentle tap upon
the door quite flurried that good lady, who (we speak it softly) was dressing her wig, a task
she entrusted to no other mortal hands. She peeped out, and seeing who it was, immediately
opened the door without hesitation.

"Oh, it's you, is it? Come in, Ellen," said she; "I don't mind you."

"I've brought the night-dresses home," said Mrs. Ellis, laying her bundle upon the table,--"I
hope they'll suit."

"Oh, no doubt they will. Did you bring the bill?" asked Mrs. Thomas.

The bill was produced, and Mrs. Ellis sat down, whilst Mrs. Thomas counted out the money. This
having been duly effected, and the bill carefully placed on the file, Mrs. Thomas also sat
down, and commenced her usual lamentation over the state of her nerves, and the extravagance
of the younger members of the family. On the latter subject she spoke very feelingly. "Such
goings on, Ellen, are enough to set me crazy--so many nurses--and then we have to keep four
horses--and it's company, company from Monday morning until Saturday night; the house is kept
upside-down continually--money, money for everything--all going out, and nothing coming in!"--and
the unfortunate Mrs. Thomas whined and groaned as if she had not at that moment an income of
clear fifteen thousand dollars a year, and a sister who might die any day and leave her half
as much more.

Mrs. Thomas was the daughter of the respectable old gentleman whom Dr. Whiston's grandfather
had prepared for his final resting-place. Her daughter had married into a once wealthy, but
now decayed, Carolina family. In consideration of the wealth bequeathed by her grandfather
(who was a maker of leather breeches, and speculator in general), Miss Thomas had received
the offer of the poverty-stricken hand of Mr. Morton, and had accepted it with evident pleasure,
as he was undoubtedly a member of one of the first families of the South, and could prove a
distant connection with one of the noble families of England.

They had several children, and their incessant wants had rendered it necessary that another
servant should be kept. Now Mrs. Thomas had long had her eye on Charlie, with a view of incorporating
him with the Thomas establishment, and thought this would be a favourable time to broach the
subject to his mother: she therefore commenced by inquiring--

"How have you got through the winter, Ellen? Everything has been so dear that even we have
felt the effect of the high prices."

"Oh, tolerably well, I thank you. Husband's business, it is true, has not been as brisk as
usual, but we ought not to complain; now that we have got the house paid for, and the girls
do so much sewing, we get on very nicely."

"I should think three children must be something of a burthen--must be hard to provide for."

"Oh no, not at all," rejoined Mrs. Ellis, who seemed rather surprised at Mrs. Thomas's uncommon
solicitude respecting them. "We have never found the children a burthen, thank God--they're
rather a comfort and a pleasure than otherwise."

"I'm glad to hear you say so, Ellen--very glad, indeed, for I have been quite disturbed in
mind respecting you during the winter. I really several times thought of sending to take Charlie
off your hands: by-the-way, what is he doing now?"

"He goes to school regularly--he hasn't missed a day all winter. You should just see his writing,"
continued Mrs. Ellis, warming up with a mother's pride in her only son--"he won't let the girls
make out any of the bills, but does it all himself--he made out yours."

Mrs. Thomas took down the file and looked at the bill again. "It's very neatly written, very
neatly written, indeed; isn't it about time that he left school--don't you think he has education
enough?" she inquired.

"His father don't. He intends sending him to another school, after vacation, where they teach
Latin and Greek, and a number of other branches."

"Nonsense, nonsense, Ellen! If I were you, I wouldn't hear of it. There won't be a particle
of good result to the child from any such acquirements. It isn't as though he was a white child.
What use can Latin or Greek be to a coloured boy? None in the world--he'll have to be a common
mechanic, or, perhaps, a servant, or barber, or something of that kind, and then what use would
all his fine education be to him? Take my advice, Ellen, and don't have him taught things that
will make him feel above the situation he, in all probability, will have to fill. Now," continued
she, "I have a proposal to make to you: let him come and live with me awhile--I'll pay you
well, and take good care of him; besides, he will be learning something here, good manners,
&c. Not that he is not a well-mannered child; but, you know, Ellen, there is something every
one learns by coming in daily contact with refined and educated people that cannot but be beneficial--come
now, make up your mind to leave him with me, at least until the winter, when the schools again
commence, and then, if his father is still resolved to send him back to school, why he can
do so. Let me have him for the summer at least."

Mrs. Ellis, who had always been accustomed to regard Mrs. Thomas as a miracle of wisdom, was,
of course, greatly impressed with what she had said. She had lived many years in her family,
and had left it to marry Mr. Ellis, a thrifty mechanic, who came from Savanah, her native city.
She had great reverence for any opinion Mrs. Thomas expressed; and, after some further conversation
on the subject, made up her mind to consent to the proposal, and left her with the intention
of converting her husband to her way of thinking.

On descending to the kitchen she awoke Caddy from a delicious dream, in which she had been
presented with the black silk that they had seen in the shop window marked eighty-seven and
a half cents a yard. In the dream she had determined to make it up with tight sleeves and infant
waist, that being the most approved style at that period.

"Five breadths are not enough for the skirt, and if I take six I must skimp the waist and cape,"
murmured she in her sleep.

"Wake up, girl! What are you thinking about?" said her mother, giving her another shake.

"Oh!" said Caddy, with a wild and disappointed look--"I was dreaming, wasn't I? I declare I
thought I had that silk frock in the window."

"The girls' heads are always running on finery--wake up, and come along, I'm going home."

Caddy followed her mother out, leaving Aunt Rachel and Tom nodding at each other as they dozed
before the fire.

That night Mr. Ellis and his wife had a long conversation upon the proposal of Mrs. Thomas;
and after divers objections raised by him, and set aside by her, it was decided that Charlie
should be permitted to go there for the holidays at least; after which, his father resolved
he should be sent to school again.

Charlie, the next morning, looked very blank on being informed of his approaching fate. Caddy
undertook with great alacrity to break the dismal tidings to him, and enlarged in a glowing
manner upon what times he might expect from Aunt Rachel.

"I guess she'll keep you straight;--you'll see sights up there! She is cross as sin--she'll
make you wipe your feet when you go in and out, if no one else can."

"Let him alone, Caddy," gently interposed Esther; "it is bad enough to be compelled to live
in a house with that frightful old woman, without being annoyed about it beforehand. If I could
help it, Charlie, you should not go."

"I know you'd keep me home if you could--but old Cad, here, she always rejoices if anything
happens to me. I'll be hanged if I stay there," said he. "I won't live at service--I'd rather
be a sweep, or sell apples on the dock. I'm not going to be stuck up behind their carriage,
dressed up like a monkey in a tail coat--I'll cut off my own head first." And with this sanguinary
threat he left the house, with his school-books under his arm, intending to lay the case before
his friend and adviser, the redoubtable and sympathising Kinch.

CHAPTER III.

Charlie's Trials.

Charlie started for school with a heavy heart. Had it not been for his impending doom of service
in Mr. Thomas's family, he would have been the happiest boy that ever carried a school-bag.

It did not require a great deal to render this young gentleman happy. All that was necessary
to make up a day of perfect joyfulness with him, was a dozen marbles, permission to wear his
worst inexpressibles, and to be thoroughly up in his lessons. To-day he was possessed of all
these requisites, but there was also in the perspective along array of skirmishes with Aunt
Rachel, who, he knew, looked on him with an evil eye, and who had frequently expressed herself
regarding him, in his presence, in terms by no means complimentary or affectionate; and the
manner in which she had intimated her desire, on one or two occasions, to have an opportunity
of reforming his personal habits, were by no means calculated to produce a happy frame of mind,
now that the opportunity was about to be afforded her.

Charlie sauntered on until he came to a lumber-yard, where he stopped and examined a corner
of the fence very attentively. "Not gone by yet. I must wait for him," said he; and forthwith
he commenced climbing the highest pile of boards, the top of which he reached at the imminent
risk of his neck. Here he sat awaiting the advent of his friend Kinch, the absence of death's
head and cross bones from the corner of the fence being a clear indication that he had not
yet passed on his way to school.

Soon, however, he was espied in the distance, and as he was quite a character in his way, we
must describe him. His most prominent feature was a capacious hungry-looking mouth, within
which glistened a row of perfect teeth. He had the merriest twinkling black eyes, and a nose
so small and flat that it would have been a prize to any editor living, as it would have been
a physical impossibility to have pulled it, no matter what outrage he had committed. His complexion
was of a ruddy brown, and his hair, entirely innocent of a comb, was decorated with divers
feathery tokens of his last night's rest. A cap with the front torn off, jauntily set on one
side of his head, gave him a rakish and wide-awake air, his clothes were patched and torn in
several places, and his shoes were already in an advanced stage of decay. As he approached
the fence he took a piece of chalk from his pocket, and commenced to sketch the accustomed
startling illustration which was to convey to Charlie the intelligence that he had already
passed there on his way to school, when a quantity of sawdust came down in a shower on his
head. As soon as the blinding storm had ceased, Kinch looked up and intimated to Charlie that
it was quite late, and that there was a probability of their being after time at school.

This information caused Charlie to make rather a hasty descent, in doing which his dinner-basket
was upset, and its contents displayed at the feet of the voracious Kinch.

"Now I'll be even with you for that sawdust," cried he, as he pocketed two boiled eggs, and
bit an immense piece out of an apple-tart, which he would have demolished completely but for
the prompt interposition of its owner.

"Oh! my golly! Charlie, your mother makes good pies!" he exclaimed with rapture, as soon as
he could get his mouth sufficiently clear to speak. "Give us another bite,--only a nibble."

But Charlie knew by experience what Kinch's "nibbles" were, and he very wisely declined, saying
sadly as he did so, "You won't get many more dinners from me, Kinch. I'm going to leave school."
"No! you ain't though, are you?" asked the astonished Kinch. "You are not going, are you, really?"

"Yes, really," replied Charlie, with a doleful look; "mother is going to put me out at service."

"And do you intend to go?" asked Kinch, looking at him incredulously.

"Why of course," was the reply. "How can I help going if father and mother say I must?"

"I tell you what I should do," said Kinch, "if it was me. I should act so bad that the people
would be glad to get rid of me. They hired me out to live once, and I led the people they put
me with such a dance, that they was glad enough to send me home again."

This observation brought them to the school-house, which was but a trifling distance from the
residence of Mrs. Ellis.

They entered the school at the last moment of grace, and Mr. Dicker looked at them severely
as they took their seats. "Just saved ourselves," whispered Kinch; "a minute later and we would
have been done for;" and with this closing remark he applied himself to his grammar, a very
judicious move on his part, for he had not looked at his lesson, and there were but ten minutes
to elapse before the class would be called.

The lessons were droned through as lessons usually are at school. There was the average amount
of flogging performed; cakes, nuts, and candy, confiscated; little boys on the back seats punched
one another as little boys on the back seats always will do, and were flogged in consequence.
Then the boy who never knew his lessons was graced with the fool's cap, and was pointed and
stared at until the arrival of the play-hour relieved him from his disagreeable situation.

"What kind of folks are these Thomases?" asked Kinch, as he sat beside Charlie in the playground
munching the last of the apple-tart; "what kind of folks are they? Tell me that, and I can
give you some good advice, may-be."

"Old Mrs. Thomas is a little dried-up old woman, who wears spectacles and a wig. She isn't
of much account--I don't mind her. She's not the trouble; it's of old Aunt Rachel, I'm thinking.
Why, she has threatened to whip me when I've been there with mother, and she even talks to
her sometimes as if she was a little girl. Lord only knows what she'll do to me when she has
me there by myself. You should just see her and her cat. I really don't know," continued Charlie,
"which is the worst looking. I hate them both like poison," and as he concluded, he bit into
a piece of bread as fiercely as if he were already engaged in a desperate battle with aunt
Rachel, and was biting her in self-defence.

"Well," said Kinch, with the air of a person of vast experience in difficult cases, "I should
drown the cat--I'd do that at once--as soon as I got there; then, let me ask you, has Aunt
Rachel got corns?"

"Corns! I wish you could see her shoes," replied Charlie. "Why you could sail down the river
in 'em, they are so large. Yes, she has got corns, bunions, and rheumatism, and everything else."

"Ah! then," said Kinch, "your way is clear enough if she has got corns. I should confine myself
to operating on them. I should give my whole attention to her feet. When she attempts to take
hold of you, do you jist come down on her corns, fling your shins about kinder wild, you know,
and let her have it on both feet. You see I've tried that plan, and know by experience that
it works well. Don't you see, you can pass that off as an accident, and it don't look well
to be scratching and biting. As for the lady of the house, old Mrs. what's-her-name, do you
just manage to knock her wig off before some company, and they'll send you home at once--they'll
hardly give you time to get your hat."

Charlie laid these directions aside in his mind for future application, and asked,

"What did you do, Kinch, to get away from the people you were with?"

"Don't ask me," said Kinch, laughing; "don't, boy, don't ask me--my conscience troubles me
awful about it sometimes. I fell up stairs with dishes, and I fell down stairs with dishes.
I spilled oil on the carpet, and broke a looking-glass; but it was all accidental--entirely
accidental--they found I was too ''spensive,' and so they sent me home."

"Oh, I wouldn't do anything like that--I wouldn't destroy anything--but I've made up my mind
that I won't stay there at any rate. I don't mind work--I want to do something to assist father
and mother; but I don't want to be any one's servant. I wish I was big enough to work at the shop."

"How did your mother come to think of putting you there?" asked Kinch.

"The Lord alone knows," was the reply. "I suppose old Mrs. Thomas told her it was the best
thing that could be done for me, and mother thinks what she says is law and gospel. I believe
old Mrs. Thomas thinks a coloured person can't get to Heaven, without first living at service
a little while."

The school bell ringing put an end to this important conversation, and the boys recommenced
their lessons.

When Charlie returned from school, the first person he saw on entering the house was Robberts,
Mrs. Thomas's chief functionary, and the presiding genius of the wine cellar--when he was trusted
with the key. Charlie learned, to his horror and dismay, that he had been sent by Mrs. Thomas
to inquire into the possibility of obtaining his services immediately, as they were going to
have a series of dinner parties, and it was thought that he could be rendered quite useful.

"And must I go, mother?" he asked.

"Yes, my son; I've told Robberts that you shall come up in the morning," replied Mrs. Ellis.
Then turning to Robberts, she inquired, "How is Aunt Rachel?"

At this question, the liveried gentleman from Mrs. Thomas's shook his head dismally, and answered:
"Don't ask me, woman; don't ask me, if you please. That old sinner gets worse and worse every
day she lives. These dinners we're 'spectin to have has just set her wild--she is mad as fury
'bout 'em--and she snaps me up just as if I was to blame. That is an awful old woman, now mind
I tell you."

As Mr. Robberts concluded, he took his hat and departed, giving Charlie the cheering intelligence
that he should expect him early next morning.

Charlie quite lost his appetite for supper in consequence of his approaching trials, and, laying
aside his books with a sigh of regret, sat listlessly regarding his sisters; enlivened now
and then by some cheerful remark from Caddy, such as:--

"You'll have to keep your feet cleaner up there than you do at home, or you'll have aunt Rach
in your wool half a dozen times a day. And you mustn't throw your cap and coat down where you
please, on the chairs or tables--she'll bring you out of all that in a short time. I expect
you'll have two or three bastings before you have been there a week, for she don't put up with
any nonsense. Ah, boy," she concluded, chuckling, "you'll have a time of it--I don't envy you!"

With these and similar enlivening anticipations, Caddy whiled away the time until it was the
hour for Charlie to retire for the night, which he, did with a heavy heart.

Early the following morning he was awakened by the indefatigable Caddy, and he found a small
bundle of necessaries prepared, until his trunk of apparel could be sent to his new home. "Oh,
Cad," he exclaimed, rubbing his eyes, "how I do hate to go up there! I'd rather take a good
whipping than go."

"Well, it is too late now to talk about it; hurry and get your clothes on--it is quite late--you
ought to have been off an hour ago."

When he came down stairs prepared to go, his mother "hoped that he was going to behave like
a man," which exhortation had the effect of setting him crying at once; and then he had to
be caressed by the tearful Esther, and, finally, started away with very red eyes, followed
to the door by his mother and the girls, who stood looking after him for some moments.

So hurried and unexpected had been his departure, that he had been unable to communicate with
his friend Kinch. This weighed very heavily on his spirits, and he occupied the time on his
way to Mrs. Thomas's in devising various plans to effect that object.

On arriving, he gave a faint rap, that was responded to by Aunt Rachel, who saluted him with--

"Oh, yer's come, has yer--wipe your feet, child, and come in quick. Shut the door after yer."

"What shall I do with this?" timidly asked he, holding up his package of clothes.

"Oh, dem's yer rags is dey--fling 'em anywhere, but don't bring 'em in my kitchen," said she.
"Dere is enuff things in dere now--put 'em down here on this entry table, or dere, long side
de knife-Board--any wheres but in de kitchen."

Charlie mechanically obeyed, and then followed her into her sanctuary.

"Have you had your breakfast?" she asked, in a surly tone. "'Cause if you haven't, you must
eat quick, or you won't get any. I can't keep the breakfast things standing here all day."

Charlie, to whom the long walk had given a good appetite, immediately sat down and ate a prodigious
quantity of bread and butter, together with several slices of cold ham, washed down by two
cups of tea; after which he rested his knife and fork, and informed Aunt Rachel that he had done.

"Well, I think it's high time," responded she. "Why, boy, you'll breed a famine in de house
if you stay here long enough. You'll have to do a heap of work to earn what you'll eat, if
yer breakfast is a sample of yer dinner. Come, get up, child! and shell dese 'ere pease--time
you get 'em done, old Mrs. Thomas will be down stairs."

Charlie was thus engaged when Mrs. Thomas entered the kitchen. "Well, Charles--good morning,"
said she, in a bland voice. "I'm glad to see you here so soon. Has he had his breakfast, Aunt
Rachel?"

"Yes; and he eat like a wild animal--I never see'd a child eat more in my life," was Aunt Rachel's
abrupt answer.

"I'm glad he has a good appetite," said Mrs. Thomas, "it shows he has good health. Boys will
eat; you can't expect them to work if they don't. But it is time I was at those custards. Charlie,
put down those peas and go into the other room, and bring me a basket of eggs you will find
on the table."

"And be sure to overset the milk that's 'long side of it--yer hear?" added Aunt Rachel.

Charlie thought to himself that he would like to accommodate her, but he denied himself that
pleasure; on the ground that it might not be safe to do it.

Mrs. Thomas was a housekeeper of the old school, and had a scientific knowledge of the manner
in which all sorts of pies and puddings were compounded. She was so learned in custards and
preserves that even Aunt Rachel sometimes deferred to her superior judgment in these matters.
Carefully breaking the eggs, she skilfully separated the whites from the yolks, and gave the
latter to Charlie to beat. At first he thought it great fun, and he hummed some of the popular
melodies of the day, and kept time with his foot and the spatula. But pretty soon he exhausted
his stock of tunes, and then the performances did not go off so well. His arm commenced aching,
and he came to the sage conclusion, before he was relieved from his task, that those who eat
the custards are much better off than those who prepare them.

This task finished, he was pressed into service by Aunt Rachel, to pick and stone some raisins
which she gave him, with the injunction either to sing or whistle all the time he was "at 'em;"
and that if he stopped for a moment she should know he was eating them, and in that case she
would visit him with condign punishment on the spot, for she didn't care a fig whose child he was.

Thus, in the performance of first one little job and then another, the day wore away; and as
the hour approached at which the guests were invited, Charlie, after being taken into the dining-room
by Robberts, where he was greatly amazed at the display of silver, cut glass, and elegant china,
was posted at the door to relieve the guests of their coats and hats, which duty he performed
to the entire satisfaction of all parties concerned.

At dinner, however, he was not so fortunate. He upset a plate of soup into a gentleman's lap,
and damaged beyond repair one of the elegant china vegetable dishes. He took rather too deep
an interest in the conversation for a person in his station; and, in fact, the bright boy alluded
to by Mr. Winston, as having corrected the reverend gentleman respecting the quotation from
Chaucer, was no other than our friend Charlie Ellis.

In the evening, when the guests were departing, Charlie handed Mr. Winston his coat, admiring
the texture and cut of it very much as he did so. Mr. Winston, amused at the boy's manner, asked--

"What is your name, my little man?"

"Charles Ellis," was the prompt reply. "I'm named after my father."

"And where did your father come from, Charlie?" he asked, looking very much interested.

"From Savanah, sir. Now tell me where you came from," replied Charles.

"I came from New Orleans," said Mr. Winston, with a smile. "Now tell me," he continued, "where
do you live when you are with your parents? I should like to see your father." Charlie quickly
put his interrogator in possession of the desired information, after which Mr. Winston departed,
soon followed by the other guests.

Charlie lay for some time that night on his little cot before he could get to sleep; and amongst
the many matters that so agitated his mind, was his wonder what one of Mrs. Thomas's guests
could want with his father. Being unable however, to arrive at any satisfactory conclusion
respecting it, he turned over and went to sleep.

CHAPTER IV.

In which Mr. Winston finds an old Friend.

In the early part of Mr. Winston's career, when he worked as a boy on the plantation of his
father, he had frequently received great kindness at the hands of one Charles Ellis, who was
often employed as carpenter about the premises.

On one occasion, as a great favour, he had been permitted to accompany Ellis to his home in
Savanah, which was but a few miles distant, where he remained during the Christmas holidays.
This kindness he had never forgotten; and on his return to Georgia from New Orleans he sought
for his old friend, and found he had removed to the North, but to which particular city he
could not ascertain.

As he walked homewards, the strong likeness of little Charlie to his old friend forced itself
upon him, and the more he reflected upon it the more likely it appeared that the boy might
be his child; and the identity of name and occupation between the father of Charlie and his
old friend led to the belief that he was about to make some discovery respecting him.

On his way to his hotel he passed the old State House, the bell of which was just striking
ten. "It's too late to go to-night," said he, "it shall be the first thing I attend to in the
morning;" and after walking on a short distance farther, he found himself at the door of his
domicile.

As he passed through the little knot of waiters who were gathered about the doors, one of them
turning to another, asked, "Ain't that man a Southerner, and ain't he in your rooms, Ben?"

"I think he's a Southerner," was the reply of Ben. "But why do you ask, Allen?" he enquired.
"Because it's time he had subscribed something," replied Mr. Allen. "The funds of the Vigilance
Committee are very low indeed; in fact, the four that we helped through last week have completely
drained us. We must make a raise from some quarter, and we might as well try it on him."

Mr. Winston was waiting for a light that he might retire to his room, and was quickly served
by the individual who had been so confidentially talking with Mr. Allen.

After giving Mr. Winston the light, Ben followed him into his room and busied himself in doing
little nothings about the stove and wash-stand. "Let me unbutton your straps, sir," said he,
stooping down and commencing on the buttons, which he was rather long in unclosing. "I know,
sir, dat you Southern gentlemen ain't used to doing dese yer things for youself. I allus makes
it a pint to show Southerners more 'tention dan I does to dese yer Northern folk, 'cause yer
see I knows dey'r used to it, and can't get on widout it."

"I am not one of that kind," said Winston, as Ben slowly unbuttoned the last strap. "I have
been long accustomed to wait upon myself. I'll only trouble you to bring me up a glass of fresh
water, and then I shall have done with you for the night."

"Better let me make you up a little fire, the nights is werry cool," continued Ben. "I know
you must feel 'em; I does myself; I'm from the South, too."

"Are you?" replied Mr. Winston, with some interest; "from what part!"

"From Tuckahoe county, Virginia; nice place dat."

"Never having been there I can't say," rejoined Mr. Winston, smiling; "and how do you like
the North? I suppose you are a runaway," continued he.

"Oh, no sir! no sir!" replied Ben, "I was sot free--and I often wish," he added in a whining
tone, "dat I was back agin on the old place--hain't got no kind marster to look after me here,
and I has to work drefful hard sometimes. Ah," he concluded, drawing a long sigh, "if I was
only back on de old place!" "I heartily wish you were!" said Mr. Winston, indignantly, "and
wish moreover that you were to be tied up and whipped once a day for the rest of your life.
Any man that prefers slavery to freedom deserves to be a slave--you ought to be ashamed of
yourself. Go out of the room, sir, as quick as possible!"

"Phew!" said the astonished and chagrined Ben, as he descended the stairs; "that was certainly
a great miss," continued he, talking as correct English, and with as pure Northern an accent
as any one could boast.

"We have made a great mistake this time; a very queer kind of Southerner that is. I'm afraid
we took the wrong pig by the ear;" and as he concluded, he betook himself to the group of white-aproned
gentlemen before mentioned, to whom he related the incident that had just occurred.

"Quite a severe fall that, I should say," remarked Mr. Allen. "Perhaps we have made a mistake
and he is not a Southerner after all. Well he is registered from New Orleans, and I thought
he was a good one to try it on."

"It's a clear case we've missed it this time," exclaimed one of the party, "and I hope, Ben,
when you found he was on the other side of the fence, you did not say too much."

"Laws, no!" rejoined Ben, "do you think I'm a fool? As soon as I heard him say what he did,
I was glad to get off--I felt cheap enough, now mind, I tell you any one could have bought
me for a shilling."

Now it must be here related that most of the waiters employed in this hotel were also connected
with the Vigilance Committee of the Under-ground Railroad Company--a society formed for the
assistance of fugitive slaves; by their efforts, and by the timely information it was often
in their power to give, many a poor slave was enabled to escape from the clutches of his pursuers.

The house in which they were employed was the great resort of Southerners, who occasionally
brought with them their slippery property; and it frequently happened that these disappeared
from the premises to parts unknown, aided in their flight by the very waiters who would afterwards
exhibit the most profound ignorance as to their whereabouts. Such of the Southerners as brought
no servants with them were made to contribute, unconsciously and most amusingly, to the escape
of those of their friends.

When a gentleman presented himself at the bar wearing boots entirely too small for him, with
his hat so far down upon his forehead as almost to obscure his eyes, and whose mouth was filled
with oaths and tobacco, he was generally looked upon as a favourable specimen to operate upon;
and if he cursed the waiters, addressed any old man amongst them as "boy," and was continually
drinking cock-tails and mint-juleps, they were sure of their man; and then would tell him the
most astonishing and distressing tales of their destitution, expressing, almost with tears
in their eyes, their deep desire to return to their former masters; whilst perhaps the person
from whose mouth this tale of woe proceeded had been born in a neighbouring street, and had
never been south of Mason and Dixon's[*] line. This flattering testimony in favour of "the
peculiar institution" generally had the effect of extracting a dollar or two from the purse
of the sympathetic Southerner; which money went immediately into the coffers of the Vigilance
Committee.

[Footnote *: The line dividing the free from the slave states.]

It was this course of conduct they were about to pursue with Mr. Winston; not because he exhibited
in person or manners any of the before-mentioned peculiarities, but from his being registered
from New Orleans.

The following morning, as soon as he had breakfasted, he started in search of Mr. Ellis. The
address was 18, Little Green-street; and, by diligently inquiring, he at length discovered
the required place.

After climbing up a long flight of stairs on the outside of an old wooden building, he found
himself before a door on which was written, "Charles Ellis, carpenter and joiner." On opening
it, he ushered himself into the presence of an elderly coloured man, who was busily engaged
in planing off a plank. As soon as Mr. Winston saw his face fully, he recognized him as his
old friend. The hair had grown grey, and the form was also a trifle bent, but he would have
known him amongst a thousand. Springing forward, he grasped his hand, exclaiming, "My dear
old friend, don't you know me?" Mr. Ellis shaded his eyes with his hand, and looked at him
intently for a few moments, but seemed no wiser from his scrutiny. The tears started to Mr.
Winston's eyes as he said, "Many a kind word I'm indebted to you for--I am George Winston--don't
you remember little George that used to live on the Carter estate?"

"Why, bless me! it can't be that you are the little fellow that used to go home with me sometimes
to Savanah, and that was sold to go to New Orleans?"

"Yes, the same boy; I've been through a variety of changes since then."

"I should think you had," smilingly replied Mr. Ellis; "and, judging from appearances, very
favourable ones! Why, I took you for a white man--and you are a white man, as far as complexion
is concerned. Laws, child!" he continued, laying his hand familiarly on Winston's shoulders,
"how you have changed--I should never have known you! The last time I saw you, you were quite
a shaver, running about in a long tow shirt, and regarding a hat and shoes as articles of luxury
far beyond your reach. And now," said Mr. Ellis, gazing at him with admiring eyes, "just to
look at you! Why, you are as fine a looking man as one would wish to see in a day's travel.
I've often thought of you. It was only the other day I was talking to my wife, and wondering
what had become of you. She, although a great deal older than your cousin Emily, used to be
a sort of playmate of hers. Poor Emily! we heard she was sold at public sale in Savanah--did
you ever learn what became of her?" "Oh, yes; I saw her about two months since, when on my
way from New Orleans. You remember old Colonel Garie? Well, his son bought her, and is living
with her. They have two children--she is very happy. I really love him; he is the most kind
and affectionate fellow in the world; there is nothing he would not do to make her happy. Emily
will be so delighted to know that I have seen your wife--but who is Mrs. Ellis?--any one that
I know?"

"I do not know that you are acquainted with her, but you should remember her mother, old Nanny
Tobert, as she was called; she kept a little confectionery--almost every one in Savanah knew her."

"I can't say I do," replied Winston, reflectively.

"She came here," continued Mr. Ellis, "some years ago, and died soon after her arrival. Her
daughter went to live with the Thomases, an old Philadelphia family, and it was from their
house I married her."

"Thomases?" repeated Mr. Winston; "that is where I saw your boy--he is the image of you."

"And how came you there?" asked Ellis, with a look of surprise.

"In the most natural manner possible. I was invited there to dinner yesterday--the bright face
of your boy attracted my attention--so I inquired his name, and that led to the discovery of
yourself."

"And do the Thomases know you are a coloured man?" asked Mr. Ellis, almost speechless with
astonishment.

"I rather think not," laughingly rejoined Mr. Winston.

"It is a great risk you run to be passing for white in that way," said Mr. Ellis, with a grave
look. "But how did you manage to get introduced to that set? They are our very first people."

"It is a long story," was Winston's reply; and he then, as briefly as he could, related all
that had occurred to himself since they last met. "And now," continued he, as he finished his
recital, "I want to know all about you and your family; and I also want to see something of
the coloured people. Since I've been in the North I've met none but whites. I'm not going to
return to New Orleans to remain. I'm here in search of a home. I wish to find some place to
settle down in for life, where I shall not labour under as many disadvantages as I must struggle
against in the South."

"One thing I must tell you," rejoined Mr. Ellis; "if you should settle down here, you'll have
to be either one thing or other--white or coloured. Either you must live exclusively amongst
coloured people, or go to the whites and remain with them. But to do the latter, you must bear
in mind that it must never be known that you have a drop of African blood in your veins, or
you would be shunned as if you were a pestilence; no matter how fair in complexion or how white
you may be."

"I have not as yet decided on trying the experiment, and I hardly think it probable I shall,"
rejoined Winston. As he said this he took out his watch, and was astonished to find how very
long his visit had been. He therefore gave his hand to Mr. Ellis, and promised to return at
six o'clock and accompany him home to visit his family.

As he was leaving the shop, Mr. Ellis remarked: "George, you have not said a word respecting
your mother." His face flushed, and the tears started in his eyes, as he replied, in a broken
voice, "She's dead! Only think, Ellis, she died within a stone's throw of me, and I searching
for her all the while. I never speak of it unless compelled; it is too harrowing. It was a
great trial to me; it almost broke my heart to think that she perished miserably so near me,
whilst I was in the enjoyment of every luxury. Oh, if she could only have lived to see me as
I am now!" continued he; "but He ordered it otherwise, and we must bow. 'Twas God's will it
should be so. Good bye till evening. I shall see you again at six."

Great was the surprise of Mrs. Ellis and her daughters on learning from Mr. Ellis, when he
came home to dinner, of the events of the morning; and great was the agitation caused by the
announcement of the fact, that his friend was to be their guest in the evening.

Mrs. Ellis proposed inviting some of their acquaintances to meet him; but to this project her
husband objected, saying he wanted to have a quiet evening with him, and to talk over old times;
and that persons who were entire strangers to him would only be a restraint upon them.

Caddy seemed quite put out by the announcement of the intended visit. She declared that nothing
was fit to be seen, that the house was in a state of disorder shocking to behold, and that
there was scarce a place in it fit to sit down in; and she forthwith began to prepare for an
afternoon's vigorous scrubbing and cleaning.

"Just let things remain as they are, will you, Caddy dear," said her father. "Please be quiet
until I get out of the house," he continued, as she began to make unmistakeable demonstrations
towards raising a dust. "In a few moments you shall have the house to yourself, only give me
time to finish my dinner in peace."

Esther, her mother, and their sewing were summarily banished to an upstairs room, whilst Caddy
took undivided possession of the little parlour, which she soon brought into an astonishing
state of cleanliness. The ornaments were arranged at exact distances from the corners of the
mantelpiece, the looking-glass was polished, until it appeared to be without spot or blemish,
and its gilt frame was newly adorned with cut paper to protect it from the flies. The best
china was brought out, carefully dusted, and set upon the waiter, and all things within doors
placed in a state of forwardness to receive their expected guest. The door-steps were, however,
not as white and clean as they might be, and that circumstance pressed upon Caddy's mind. She
therefore determined to give them a hasty wipe before retiring to dress for the evening.

Having done this, and dressed herself to her satisfaction, she came down stairs to prepare
the refreshments for tea. In doing this, she continually found herself exposing her new silk
dress to great risks. She therefore donned an old petticoat over her skirt, and tied an old
silk handkerchief over her head to protect her hair from flying particles of dust; and thus
arrayed she passed the time in a state of great excitement, frequently looking out of the window
to see if her father and their guest were approaching.

In one of these excursions, she, to her intense indignation, found a beggar boy endeavouring
to draw, with a piece of charcoal, an illustration of a horse-race upon her so recently cleaned
door-steps.

"You young villain," she almost screamed, "go away from there. How dare you make those marks
upon the steps? Go off at once, or I'll give you to a constable." To these behests the daring
young gentleman only returned a contemptuous laugh, and put his thumb to his nose in the most
provoking manner. "Ain't you going?" continued the irate Caddy, almost choked with wrath at
the sight of the steps, over which she had so recently toiled, scored in every direction with
black marks.

"Just wait till I come down, I'll give it to you, you audacious villain, you," she cried, as
she closed the window; "I'll see if I can't move you!" Caddy hastily seized a broom, and descended
the stairs with the intention of inflicting summary vengeance upon the dirty delinquent who
had so rashly made himself liable to her wrath. Stealing softly down the alley beside the house,
she sprang suddenly forward, and brought the broom with all her energy down upon the head of
Mr. Winston, who was standing on the place just left by the beggar. She struck with such force
as to completely crush his hat down over his eyes, and was about to repeat the blow, when her
father caught her arm, and she became aware of the awful mistake she had made.

"Why, my child!" exclaimed her father, "what on earth, is the matter with you, have you lost
your senses?" and as he spoke, he held her at arm's length from him to get a better look at
her. "What are you dressed up in this style for?" he continued, as he surveyed her from head
to foot; and then bursting into a loud laugh at her comical appearance, he released her, and
she made the quickest possible retreat into the house by the way she came out.

Bushing breathless upstairs, she exclaimed, "Oh, mother, mother, I've done it now! They've
come, and I've beat him over the head with a broom!"

"Beat whom over the head with a broom?" asked Mrs. Ellis.

"Oh, mother, I'm so ashamed, I don't know what to do with myself. I struck Mr. Winston with
a broom. Mr. Winston, the gentleman father has brought home."

"I really believe the child is crazy," said Mrs. Ellis, surveying the chagrined girl. "Beat
Mr. Winston over the head with a broom! how came you to do it?"

"Oh, mother, I made a great mistake; I thought he was a beggar."

"He must be a very different looking person from what we have been led to expect," here interrupted
Esther. "I understood father to say that he was very gentlemanlike in appearance."

"So he is," replied Caddy.

"But you just said you took him for a beggar?" replied her mother.

"Oh, don't bother me, don't bother me! my head is all turned upside down. Do, Esther, go down
and let them in--hear how furiously father is knocking! Oh, go--do go!"

Esther quickly descended and opened the door for Winston and her father; and whilst the former
was having the dust removed and his hat straightened, Mrs. Ellis came down and was introduced
by her husband. She laughingly apologized for the ludicrous mistake Caddy had made, which afforded
great amusement to all parties, and divers were the jokes perpetrated at her expense during
the remainder of the evening. Her equanimity having been restored by Winston's assurances that
he rather enjoyed the joke than otherwise--and an opportunity having been afforded her to obliterate
the obnoxious marks from the door-steps--she exhibited great activity in forwarding all the
arrangements for tea.

They sat a long while round the table--much time that, under ordinary circumstances, would
have been given to the demolition of the food before them, being occupied by the elders of
the party in inquiries after mutual friends, and in relating the many incidents that had occurred
since they last met.

Tea being at length finished, and the things cleared away, Mrs. Ellis gave the girls permission
to go out. "Where are you going?" asked their father.

"To the library company's room--to-night is their last lecture."

"I thought," said Winston, "that coloured persons were excluded from such places. I certainly
have been told so several times."

"It is quite true," replied Mr. Ellis; "at the lectures of the white library societies a coloured
person would no more be permitted to enter than a donkey or a rattle-snake. This association
they speak of is entirely composed of people of colour. They have a fine library, a debating
club, chemical apparatus, collections of minerals, &c. They have been having a course of lectures
delivered before them this winter, and to-night is the last of the course."

"Wouldn't you like to go, Mr. Winston?" asked Mrs. Ellis, who had a mother's desire to secure
so fine an escort for her daughters.

"No, no--don't, George," quickly interposed Mr. Ellis; "I am selfish enough to want you entirely
to myself to-night. The girls will find beaux enough, I'll warrant you." At this request the
girls did not seem greatly pleased, and Miss Caddy, who already, in imagination, had excited
the envy of all her female friends by the grand entree she was to make at the Lyceum, leaning
on the arm of Winston, gave her father a by no means affectionate look, and tying her bonnet-strings
with a hasty jerk, started out in company with her sister.

"You appear to be very comfortable here, Ellis," said Mr. Winston, looking round the apartment.
"If I am not too inquisitive--what rent do you pay for this house?"

"It's mine!" replied Ellis, with an air of satisfaction; "house, ground, and all, bought and
paid for since I settled here."

"Why, you are getting on well! I suppose," remarked Winston, "that you are much better off
than the majority of your coloured friends. From all I can learn, the free coloured people
in the Northern cities are very badly off. I've been frequently told that they suffer dreadfully
from want and privations of various kinds."

"Oh, I see you have been swallowing the usual dose that is poured down Southern throats by
those Northern negro-haters, who seem to think it a duty they owe the South to tell all manner
of infamous lies upon us free coloured people. I really get so indignant and provoked sometimes,
that I scarcely know what to do with myself. Badly off, and in want, indeed! Why, my dear sir,
we not only support our own poor, but assist the whites to support theirs, and enemies are
continually filling the public ear with the most distressing tales of our destitution! Only
the other day the Colonization Society had the assurance to present a petition to the legislature
of this State, asking for an appropriation to assist them in sending us all to Africa, that
we might no longer remain a burthen upon the State--and they came very near getting it, too;
had it not been for the timely assistance of young Denbigh, the son of Judge Denbigh, they
would have succeeded, such was the gross ignorance that prevailed respecting our real condition,
amongst the members of the legislature. He moved a postponement of the vote until he could
have time to bring forward facts to support the ground that he had assumed in opposition to
the appropriation being made. It was granted; and, in a speech that does him honour, he brought
forward facts that proved us to be in a much superior condition to that in which our imaginative
enemies had described us. Ay! he did more--he proved us to be in advance of the whites in wealth
and general intelligence: for whilst it was one in fifteen amongst the whites unable to read
and write, it was but one in eighteen amongst the coloured (I won't pretend to be correct about
the figures, but that was about the relative proportions); and also, that we paid, in the shape
of taxes upon our real estate, more than our proportion for the support of paupers, insane,
convicts, &c."

"Well," said the astonished Winston, "that is turning the tables completely. You must take
me to visit amongst the coloured people; I want to see as much of them as possible during my stay."

"I'll do what I can for you, George. I am unable to spare you much time just at present, but
I'll put you in the hands of one who has abundance of it at his disposal--I will call with
you and introduce you to Walters."

"Who is Walters?" asked Mr. Winston.

"A friend of mine--a dealer in real estate."

"Oh, then he is a white man?"

"Not by any means," laughingly replied Mr. Ellis. "He is as black as a man can conveniently
be. He is very wealthy; some say that he is worth half a million of dollars. He owns, to my
certain knowledge, one hundred brick houses. I met him the other day in a towering rage: it
appears, that he owns ten thousand dollars' worth of stock, in a railroad extending from this
to a neighbouring city. Having occasion to travel in it for some little distance, he got into
the first-class cars; the conductor, seeing him there, ordered him out--he refused to go, and
stated that he was a shareholder. The conductor replied, that he did not care how much stock
he owned, he was a nigger, and that no nigger should ride in those cars; so he called help,
and after a great deal of trouble they succeeded in ejecting him." "And he a stockholder! It
was outrageous," exclaimed Winston. "And was there no redress?"

"No, none, practically. He would have been obliged to institute a suit against the company;
and, as public opinion now is, it would be impossible for him to obtain a verdict in his favour."

The next day Winston was introduced to Mr. Walters, who expressed great pleasure in making
his acquaintance, and spent a week in showing him everything of any interest connected with
coloured people.

Winston was greatly delighted with the acquaintances he made; and the kindness and hospitality
with which he was received made a most agreeable impression upon him.

It was during this period that he wrote the glowing letters to Mr. and Mrs. Garie, the effects
of which will be discerned in the next chapter.

CHAPTER V.

The Garies decide on a Change.

We must now return to the Garies, whom we left listening to Mr. Winston's description of what
he saw in Philadelphia, and we need not add anything respecting it to what the reader has already
gathered from the last chapter; our object being now to describe the effect his narrative produced.

On the evening succeeding the departure of Winston for New Orleans, Mr. and Mrs. Garie were
seated in a little arbour at a short distance from the house, and which commanded a magnificent
prospect up and down the river. It was overshadowed by tall trees, from the topmost branches
of which depended large bunches of Georgian moss, swayed to and fro by the soft spring breeze
that came gently sweeping down the long avenue of magnolias, laden with the sweet breath of
the flowers with which the trees were covered.

A climbing rose and Cape jessamine had almost covered the arbour, and their intermingled blossoms,
contrasting with the rich brown colour of the branches of which it was constructed, gave it
an exceedingly beautiful and picturesque appearance.

This arbour was their favourite resort in the afternoons of summer, as they could see from
it the sun go down behind the low hills opposite, casting his gleams of golden light upon the
tops of the trees that crowned their summits. Northward, where the chain of hills was broken,
the waters of the river would be brilliant with waves of gold long after the other parts of
it were shrouded in the gloom of twilight. Mr. and Mrs. Garie sat looking at the children,
who were scampering about the garden in pursuit of a pet rabbit which had escaped, and seemed
determined not to be caught upon any pretence whatever.

"Are they not beautiful?" said Mr. Garie, with pride, as they bounded past him. "There are
not two prettier children in all Georgia. You don't seem half proud enough of them," he continued,
looking down upon his wife affectionately.

Mrs. Garie, who was half reclining on the seat, and leaning her head upon his shoulder, replied,
"Oh, yes, I am, Garie; I'm sure I love them dearly--oh, so dearly!" continued she, fervently--"and
I only wish"--here she paused, as if she felt she had been going to say something that had
better remain unspoken.

"You only wish what, dear? You were going to say something," rejoined her husband. "Come, out
with it, and let me hear what it was."

"Oh, Garie, it was nothing of any consequence."

"Consequence or no consequence, let me hear what it was, dear."

"Well, as you insist on hearing it, I was about to say that I wish they were not little slaves."

"Oh, Em! Em!" exclaimed he, reproachfully, "how can you speak in that manner? I thought, dear,
that you regarded me in any other light than that of a master. What have I done to revive the
recollection that any such relation existed between us? Am I not always kind and affectionate?
Did you ever have a wish ungratified for a single day, if it was in my power to compass it?
or have I ever been harsh or neglectful?"

"Oh, no, dear, no--forgive me, Garie--do, pray, forgive me--you are kindness itself--believe
me, I did not think to hurt your feelings by saying what I did. I know you do not treat me
or them as though we were slaves. But I cannot help feeling that we are such--and it makes
me very sad and unhappy sometimes. If anything should happen that you should be taken away
suddenly, think what would be our fate. Heirs would spring up from somewhere, and we might
be sold and separated for ever. Respecting myself I might be indifferent, but regarding the
children I cannot feel so."

"Tut, tut, Em! don't talk so gloomily. Do you know of any one, now, who has been hired to put
me to death?" said he, smiling.

"Don't talk so, dear; remember, 'In the midst of life we are in death.' It was only this morning
I learned that Celeste--you remember Celeste, don't you?--I cannot recall her last name."

"No, dear, I really can't say that I do remember whom you refer to."

"I can bring her to your recollection, I think," continued she. "One afternoon last fall we
were riding together on the Augusta-road, when you stopped to admire a very neat cottage, before
the door of which two pretty children were playing."

"Oh, yes, I remember something about it--I admired the children so excessively that you became
quite jealous."

"I don't remember that part of it," she continued. "But let me tell you my story. Last week
the father of the children started for Washington; the cars ran off the track, and were precipitated
down a high embankment, and he and some others were killed. Since his death it has been discovered
that all his property was heavily mortgaged to old MacTurk, the worst man in the whole of Savannah;
and he has taken possession of the place, and thrown her and the children into the slave-pen,
from which they will be sold to the highest bidder at a sheriff's sale. Who can say that a
similar fate may never be mine? These things press upon my spirit, and make me so gloomy and
melancholy at times, that I wish it were possible to shun even myself. Lately, more than ever,
have I felt disposed to beg you to break up here, and move off to some foreign country where
there is no such thing as slavery. I have often thought how delightful it would be for us all
to be living in that beautiful Italy you have so often described to me--or in France either.
You said you liked both those places--why not live in one of them?"

"No, no, Emily; I love America too much to ever think of living anywhere else. I am much too
thorough a democrat ever to swear allegiance to a king. No, no--that would never do--give me
a free country."

"That is just what I say," rejoined Mrs. Garie; "that is exactly what I want; that is why I
should like to get away from here, because this is not a free country--God knows it is not!"

"Oh, you little traitor! How severely you talk, abusing your native land in such shocking style,
it's really painful to hear you," said Mr. Garie in a jocular tone.

"Oh, love," rejoined she, "don't joke, it's not a subject for jesting. It is heavier upon my
heart than you dream of. Wouldn't you like to live in the free States? There is nothing particular
to keep you here, and only think how much better it would be for the children: and Garie,"
she continued in a lower tone, nestling close to him as she spoke, and drawing his head towards
her, "I think I am going to--" and she whispered some words in his ear, and as she finished
she shook her head, and her long curls fell down in clusters over her face.

Mr. Garie put the curls aside, and kissing her fondly, asked, "How long have you known it, dear?"

"Not long, not very long," she replied. "And I have such a yearning that it should be born
a free child. I do want that the first air it breathes should be that of freedom. It will kill
me to have another child born here! its infant smiles would only be a reproach to me. Oh,"
continued she, in a tone of deep feeling, "it is a fearful thing to give birth to an inheritor
of chains;" and she shuddered as she laid her head on her husband's bosom.

Mr. Garie's brow grew thoughtful, and a pause in the conversation ensued. The sun had long
since gone down, and here and there the stars were beginning to show their twinkling light.
The moon, which had meanwhile been creeping higher and higher in the blue expanse above, now
began to shed her pale, misty beams on the river below, the tiny waves of which broke in little
circlets of silver on the shore almost at their feet.

Mr. Garie was revolving in his mind the conversation he had so recently held with Mr. Winston
respecting the free States. It had been suggested by him that the children should be sent to
the North to be educated, but he had dismissed the notion, well knowing that the mother would
be heart-broken at the idea of parting with her darlings. Until now, the thought of going to
reside in the North had never been presented for his consideration. He was a Southerner in
almost all his feelings, and had never had a scruple respecting the ownership of slaves. But
now the fact that he was the master as well as the father of his children, and that whilst
he resided where he did it was out of his power to manumit them; that in the event of his death
they might be seized and sold by his heirs, whoever they might be, sent a thrill of horror
through him. He had known all this before, but it had never stood out in such bold relief until
now.

"What are you thinking of, Garie?" asked his wife, looking up into his face. "I hope I have
not vexed you by what I've said."

"Oh, no, dear, not at all. I was only thinking whether you would be any happier if I acceded
to your wishes and removed to the North. Here you live in good style--you have a luxurious
home, troops of servants to wait upon you, a carriage at your disposal. In fact, everything
for which you express a desire."

"I know all that, Garie, and what I am about to say may seem ungrateful, but believe me, dear,
I do not mean it to be so. I had much rather live on crusts and wear the coarsest clothes,
and work night and day to earn them, than live here in luxury, wearing gilded chains. Carriages
and fine clothes cannot create happiness. I have every physical comfort, and yet my heart is
often heavy--oh, so very heavy; I know I am envied by many for my fine establishment; yet how
joyfully would I give it all up and accept the meanest living for the children's freedom--and
your love."

"But, Emily, granted we should remove to the North, you would find annoyances there as well
as here. There is a great deal of prejudice existing there against people of colour, which,
often exposes them to great inconveniences."

"Yes, dear, I know all that; I should expect that. But then on the other hand, remember what
George said respecting the coloured people themselves; what a pleasant social circle they form,
and how intelligent many of them are! Oh, Garie, how I have longed for friends!--we have visitors
now and then, but none that I can call friends. The gentlemen who come to see you occasionally
are polite to me, but, under existing circumstances, I feel that they cannot entertain for
me the respect I think I deserve. I know they look down upon and despise me because I'm a coloured
woman. Then there would be another advantage; I should have some female society--here I have
none. The white ladies of the neighbourhood will not associate with me, although I am better
educated, thanks to your care, than many of them, so it is only on rare occasions, when I can
coax some of our more cultivated coloured acquaintances from Savannah to pay us a short visit,
that I have any female society, and no woman can be happy without it. I have no parents, nor
yet have you. We have nothing we greatly love to leave behind--no strong ties to break, and
in consequence would be subjected to no great grief at leaving. If I only could persuade you
to go!" said she, imploringly.

"Well, Emily," replied he, in an undecided manner, "I'll think about it. I love you so well,
that I believe I should be willing to make any sacrifice for your happiness. But it is getting
damp and chilly, and you know," said he, smiling, "you must be more than usually careful of
yourself now."

The next evening, and many more besides, were spent in discussing the proposed change. Many
objections to it were stated, weighed carefully, and finally set aside. Winston was written
to and consulted, and though he expressed some surprise at the proposal, gave it his decided
approval. He advised, at the same time, that the estate should not be sold, but be placed in
the hands of some trustworthy person, to be managed in Mr. Garie's absence. Under the care
of a first-rate overseer, it would not only yield a handsome income, but should they be dissatisfied
with their Northern home, they would have the old place still in reserve; and with the knowledge
that they had this to fall back upon, they could try their experiment of living in the North
with their minds less harassed than they otherwise would be respecting the result.

As Mr. Garie reflected more and more on the probable beneficial results of the project, his
original disinclination to it diminished, until he finally determined on running the risk;
and he felt fully rewarded for this concession to his wife's wishes when he saw her recover
all her wonted serenity and sprightliness.

They were soon in all the bustle and confusion consequent on preparing for a long journey.
When Mr. Garie's determination to remove became known, great consternation prevailed on the
plantation, and dismal forebodings were entertained by the slaves as to the result upon themselves.

Divers were the lamentations heard on all sides, when they were positively convinced that "massa
was gwine away for true;" but they were somewhat pacified, when they learned that no one was
to be sold, and that the place would not change hands. For Mr. Garie was a very kind master,
and his slaves were as happy as slaves can be under any circumstances. Not much less was the
surprise which the contemplated change excited in the neighbourhood, and it was commented on
pretty freely by his acquaintances. One of them--to whom he had in conversation partially opened
his mind, and explained that his intended removal grew out of anxiety respecting the children,
and his own desire that they might be where they could enjoy the advantages of schools, &c.--sneered
almost to his face at what he termed his crack-brained notions; and subsequently, in relating
to another person the conversation he had had with Mr. Garie, spoke of him as "a soft-headed
fool, led by the nose by a yaller wench. Why can't he act," he said, "like other men who happen
to have half-white children--breed them up for the market, and sell them?" and he might have
added, "as I do," for he was well known to have so acted by two or three of his own tawny offspring.

Mr. Garie, at the suggestion of Winston, wrote to Mr. Walters, to procure them a small, but
neat and comfortable house, in Philadelphia; which, when procured, he was to commit to the
care of Mr. and Mrs. Ellis, who were to have it furnished and made ready to receive him and
his family on their arrival, as Mr. Garie desired to save his wife as much as possible, from
the care and anxiety attendant upon the arrangement of a new residence.

One most important matter, and on which depended the comfort and happiness of his people, was
the selection of a proper overseer. On its becoming known that he required such a functionary,
numbers of individuals who aspired to that dignified and honourable office applied forthwith;
and as it was also known that the master was to be absent, and that, in consequence, the party
having it under his entire control, could cut and slash without being interfered with, the
value of the situation was greatly enhanced. It had also another irresistible attraction, the
absence of the master would enable the overseer to engage in the customary picking and stealing
operations, with less chance of detection.

In consequence of all these advantages, there was no want of applicants. Great bony New England
men, traitors to the air they first breathed, came anxiously forward to secure the prize. Mean,
weasen-faced, poor white Georgians, who were able to show testimonials of their having produced
large crops with a small number of hands, and who could tell to a fraction how long a slave
could be worked on a given quantity of corn, also put in their claims for consideration. Short,
thick-set men, with fierce faces, who gloried in the fact that they had at various times killed
refractory negroes, also presented themselves to undergo the necessary examination.

Mr. Garie sickened as he contemplated the motley mass of humanity that presented itself with
such eagerness for the attainment of so degrading an office; and as he listened to their vulgar
boastings and brutal language, he blushed to think that such men were his countrymen.

Never until now had he had occasion for an overseer. He was not ambitious of being known to
produce the largest crop to the acre, and his hands had never been driven to that shocking
extent, so common with his neighbours. He had been his own manager, assisted by an old negro,
called Ephraim--most generally known as Eph, and to him had been entrusted the task of immediately
superintending the hands engaged in the cultivation of the estate. This old man was a great
favourite with the children, and Clarence, who used to accompany him on his pony over the estate,
regarded him as the most wonderful and accomplished coloured gentleman in existence.

Eph was in a state of great perturbation at the anticipated change, and he earnestly sought
to be permitted to accompany them to the North. Mr. Garie was, however, obliged to refuse his
request, as he said, that it was impossible that the place could get on without him.

An overseer being at last procured, whose appearance and manners betokened a better heart than
that of any who had yet applied for the situation, and who was also highly-recommended for
skill and honesty; nothing now remained to prevent Mr. Garie's early departure.

CHAPTER VI.

Pleasant News.

One evening Mr. Ellis was reading the newspaper, and Mrs. Ellis and the girls were busily engaged
in sewing, when who should come in but Mr. Walters, who had entered without ceremony at the
front door, which had been left open owing to the unusual heat of the weather.

"Here you all are, hard at work," exclaimed he, in his usual hearty manner, accepting at the
same time the chair offered to him by Esther.

"Come, now," continued he, "lay aside your work and newspapers, for I have great news to communicate."

"Indeed, what is it?--what can it be?" cried the three females, almost in a breath; "do let
us hear it!"

"Oh," said Mr. Walters, in a provokingly slow tone, "I don't think I'll tell you to-night;
it may injure your rest; it will keep till to-morrow."

"Now, that is always the way with Mr. Walters," said Caddy, pettishly; "he always rouses one's
curiosity, and then refuses to gratify it;--he is so tantalizing sometimes!"

"I'll tell you this much," said he, looking slily at Caddy, "it is connected with a gentleman
who had the misfortune to be taken for a beggar, and who was beaten over the head in consequence
by a young lady of my acquaintance."

"Now, father has been telling you that," exclaimed Caddy, looking confused, "and I don't thank
him for it either; I hear of that everywhere I go--even the Burtons know of it."

Mr. Walters now looked round the room, as though he missed some one, and finally exclaimed,
"Where is Charlie? I thought I missed somebody--where is my boy?"

"We have put him out to live at Mrs. Thomas's," answered Mrs. Ellis, hesitatingly, for she
knew Mr. Walters' feelings respecting the common practice of sending little coloured boys to
service. "It is a very good place for him," continued she--"a most excellent place."

"That is too bad," rejoined Mr. Walters--"too bad; it is a shame to make a servant of a bright
clever boy like that. Why, Ellis, man, how came you to consent to his going? The boy should
be at school. It really does seem to me that you people who have good and smart boys take the
very course to ruin them. The worst thing you can do with a boy of his age is to put him at
service. Once get a boy into the habit of working for a stipend, and, depend upon it, when
he arrives at manhood, he will think that if he can secure so much a month for the rest of
his life he will be perfectly happy. How would you like him to be a subservient old numskull,
like that old Robberts of theirs?"

Here Esther interrupted Mr. Walters by saying, "I am very glad to hear you express yourself
in that manner, Mr. Walters--very glad. Charlie is such a bright, active little fellow; I hate
to have him living there as a servant. And he dislikes it, too, as much as any one can. I do
wish mother would take him away."

"Hush, Esther," said her mother, sharply; "your mother lived at service, and no one ever thought
the worse of her for it."

Esther looked abashed, and did not attempt to say anything farther.

"Now, look here, Ellen," said Mr. Walters. (He called her Ellen, for he had been long intimate
with the family.) "If you can't get on without the boy's earning something, why don't you do
as white women and men do? Do you ever find them sending their boys out as servants? No; they
rather give them a stock of matches, blacking, newspapers, or apples, and start them out to
sell them. What is the result? The boy that learns to sell matches soon learns to sell other
things; he learns to make bargains; he becomes a small trader, then a merchant, then a millionaire.
Did you ever hear of any one who had made a fortune at service? Where would I or Ellis have
been had we been hired out all our lives at so much a month? It begets a feeling of dependence
to place a boy in such a situation; and, rely upon it, if he stays there long, it will spoil
him for anything better all his days."

Mrs. Ellis was here compelled to add, by way of justifying herself, that it was not their intention
to let him remain there permanently; his father only having given his consent for him to serve
during the vacation.

"Well, don't let him stay there longer, I pray you," continued Walters. "A great many white
people think that we are only fit for servants, and I must confess we do much to strengthen
the opinion by permitting our children to occupy such situations when we are not in circumstances
to compel us to do so. Mrs. Thomas may tell you that they respect their old servant Robberts
as much as they do your husband; but they don't, nevertheless--I don't believe a word of it.
It is impossible to have the same respect for the man who cleans your boots, that you have
for the man who plans and builds your house."

"Oh, well, Walters," here interposed Mr. Ellis, "I don't intend the boy to remain there, so
don't get yourself into an unnecessary state of excitement about it. Let us hear what this
great news is that you have brought."

"Oh, I had almost forgotten it," laughingly replied Walters, at the same time fumbling in his
pocket for a letter, which he at length produced. "Here," he continued, opening it, "is a letter
I have received from a Mr. Garie, enclosing another from our friend Winston. This Mr. Garie
writes me that he is coming to the North to settle, and desires me to procure them a house;
and he says also that he has so far presumed upon an early acquaintance of his wife with Mrs.
Ellis as to request that she will attend to the furnishing of it. You are to purchase all that
is necessary to make them comfortable, and I am to foot the bills."

"What, you don't mean Emily Winston's husband?" said the astonished Mrs. Ellis.

"I can't say whose husband it is, but from Winston's letter," replied Mr. Walters, "I suppose
he is the person alluded to."

"That is news," continued Mrs. Ellis. "Only think, she was a little mite of a thing when I
first knew her, and now she is a woman and the mother of two children. How time does fly. I
must be getting quite old," concluded she, with a sigh.

"Nonsense, Ellen," remarked Mr. Ellis, "you look surprisingly young, you are quite a girl yet.
Why, it was only the other day I was asked if you were one of my daughters."

Mrs. Ellis and the girls laughed at this sally of their father's, who asked Mr. Walters if
he had as yet any house in view.

"There is one of my houses in Winter-street that I think will just suit them. The former tenants
moved out about a week since. If I can call for you to-morrow," he continued, turning to Mrs.
Ellis, "will you accompany me there to take a look at the premises?"

"It is a dreadful long walk," replied Mrs. Ellis. "How provoking it is to think, that because
persons are coloured they are not permitted to ride in the omnibuses or other public conveyances!
I do hope I shall live to see the time when we shall be treated as civilized creatures should be."

"I suppose we shall be so treated when the Millennium comes," rejoined Walters, "not before,
I am afraid; and as we have no reason to anticipate that it will arrive before to-morrow, we
shall have to walk to Winter-street, or take a private conveyance. At any rate, I shall call
for you to-morrow at ten. Good night--remember, at ten." "Well, this is a strange piece of
intelligence," exclaimed Mrs. Ellis, as the door closed upon Mr. Walters. "I wonder what on
earth can induce them to move on here. Their place, I am told, is a perfect paradise. In old
Colonel Garie's time it was said to be the finest in Georgia. I wonder if he really intends
to live here permanently?"

"I can't say, my dear," replied Mrs. Ellis; "I am as much in the dark as you are."

"Perhaps they are getting poor, Ellis, and are coming here because they can live cheaper."

"Oh, no, wife; I don't think that can be the occasion of their removal. I rather imagine he
purposes emancipating his children. He cannot do it legally in Georgia; and, you know, by bringing
them here, and letting them remain six months, they are free--so says the law of some of the
Southern States, and I think of Georgia."

The next morning Mrs. Ellis, Caddy, and Mr. Walters, started for Winter-street; it was a very
long walk, and when they arrived there, they were all pretty well exhausted.

"Oh, dear," exclaimed Mrs. Ellis, after walking upstairs, "I am so tired, and there is not
a chair in the house. I must rest here," said she, seating herself upon the stairs, and looking
out upon the garden. "What a large yard! if ours were only as large as this, what a delightful
place I could make of it! But there is no room to plant anything at our house, the garden is
so very small."

After they were all somewhat rested, they walked through the house and surveyed the rooms,
making some favourable commentary upon each.

"The house don't look as if it would want much cleaning," said Caddy, with a tone of regret.

"So much the better, I should say," suggested Mr. Walters.

"Not as Caddy views the matter," rejoined Mrs. Ellis. "She is so fond of house-cleaning, that
I positively think she regards the cleanly state of the premises as rather a disadvantage than
otherwise." They were all, however, very well pleased with the place; and on their way home
they settled which should be the best bedroom, and where the children should sleep. They also
calculated how much carpet and oilcloth would be necessary, and what style of furniture should
be put in the parlour.

"I think the letter said plain, neat furniture, and not too expensive, did it not?" asked Mrs.
Ellis.

"I think those were the very words," replied Caddy; "and, oh, mother, isn't it nice to have
the buying of so many pretty things? I do so love to shop!"

"Particularly with some one else's money," rejoined her mother, with a smile.

"Yes, or one's own either, when one has it," continued Caddy; "I like to spend money under
any circumstances."

Thus in conversation relative to the house and its fixtures, they beguiled the time until they
reached their home. On arriving there, Mrs. Ellis found Robberts awaiting her return with a
very anxious countenance. He informed her that Mrs. Thomas wished to see her immediately; that
Charlie had been giving that estimable lady a world of trouble; and that her presence was necessary
to set things to rights.

"What has he been doing?" asked Mrs. Ellis.

"Oh, lots of things! He and aunt Rachel don't get on together at all; and last night he came
nigh having the house burned down over our heads."

"Why, Robberts, you don't tell me so! What a trial boys are," sighed Mrs. Ellis.

"He got on first rate for a week or two; but since that he has been raising Satan. He and aunt
Rachel had a regular brush yesterday, and he has actually lamed the old woman to that extent
she won't be able to work for a week to come."

"Dear, dear, what am I to do?" said the perplexed Mrs. Ellis; "I can't go up there immediately,
I am too tired. Say to Mrs. Thomas I will come up this evening. I wonder," concluded she, "what
has come over the boy." "Mother, you know how cross aunt Rachel is; I expect she has been ill-treating
him. He is so good-natured, that he never would behave improperly to an old person unless goaded
to it by some very harsh usage."

"That's the way--go on, Esther, find some excuse for your angel," said Caddy, ironically. "Of
course that lamb could not do anything wrong, and, according to your judgment, he never does;
but, I tell you, he is as bad as any other boy--boys are boys. I expect he has been tracking
over the floor after aunt Rachel has scrubbed it, or has been doing something equally provoking;
he has been in mischief, depend upon it."

Things had gone on very well with Master Charlie for the first two weeks after his introduction
into the house of the fashionable descendant of the worthy maker of leathern breeches. His
intelligence, combined with the quickness and good-humour with which he performed the duties
assigned him, quite won the regard of the venerable lady who presided over that establishment.
It is true she had detected him in several attempts upon the peace and well-being of aunt Rachel's
Tom; but with Tom she had little sympathy, he having recently made several felonious descents
upon her stores of cream and custards. In fact, it was not highly probable, if any of his schemes
had resulted seriously to the spiteful protege of aunt Rachel, that Mrs. Thomas would have
been overwhelmed with grief, or disposed to inflict any severe punishment on the author of
the catastrophe.

Unfortunately for Mrs. Thomas, Charlie, whilst going on an errand, had fallen in with his ancient
friend and adviser--in short, he had met no less a person than the formerly all-sufficient
Kinch. Great was the delight of both parties at this unexpected meeting, and warm, indeed,
was the exchange of mutual congratulations on this auspicious event.

Kinch, in the excess of his delight, threw his hat several feet in the air; nor did his feelings
of pleasure undergo the least abatement when that dilapidated portion of his costume fell into
a bed of newly-mixed lime, from which he rescued it with great difficulty and at no little
personal risk.

"Hallo! Kinch, old fellow, how are you?" cried Charlie; "I've been dying to see you--why haven't
you been up?"

"Why, I did come up often, but that old witch in the kitchen wouldn't let me see you--she abused
me scandalous. I wanted to pull her turban off and throw it in the gutter. Why, she called
me a dirty beggar, and threatened to throw cold water on me if I didn't go away. Phew! ain't
she an old buster!"

"Why, I never knew you were there."

"Yes," continued Kinch; "and I saw you another time hung up behind the carriage. I declare,
Charlie, you looked so like a little monkey, dressed up in that sky-blue coat and silver buttons,
that I liked to have died a-laughing at you;" and Kinch was so overcome by the recollection
of the event in question, that he was obliged to sit down upon a door-step to recover himself.

"Oh, I do hate to wear this confounded livery!' said Charlie, dolefully--" the boys scream
'Johnny Coat-tail' after me in the streets, and call me 'blue jay,' and 'blue nigger,' and
lots of other names. I feel that all that's wanting to make a complete monkey of me, is for
some one to carry me about on an organ."

"What do you wear it for, then?" asked Kinch.

"Because I can't help myself, that's the reason. The boys plague me to that extent sometimes,
that I feel like tearing the things into bits--but mother says I must wear it. Kinch," concluded
he, significantly, "something will have to be done, I can't stand it."

"You remember what I told you about the wig, don't you?" asked Kinch; and, on receiving an
affirmative reply, he continued, "Just try that on, and see how it goes--you'll find it'll
work like a charm; it's a regular footman-expatriator--just try it now; you'll see if it isn't
the thing to do the business for you." "I'm determined to be as bad as I can," rejoined Charlie;
"I'm tired enough of staying there: that old aunt Rach is a devil--I don't believe a saint
from heaven could get on with her; I'm expecting we'll have a pitched battle every day."

Beguiling the time with this and similar conversation, they reached the house to which Charlie
had been despatched with a note; after which, he turned his steps homeward, still accompanied
by the redoubtable Kinch.

As ill luck would have it, they passed some boys who were engaged in a game of marbles, Charlie's
favourite pastime, and, on Kinch's offering him the necessary stock to commence play, he launched
into the game, regardless of the fact that the carriage was ordered for a drive within an hour,
and that he was expected to fill his accustomed place in the rear of that splendid vehicle.

Once immersed in the game, time flew rapidly on. Mrs. Thomas awaited his return until her patience
was exhausted, when she started on her drive without him. As they were going through a quiet
street, to her horror and surprise, prominent amidst a crowd of dirty boys, she discovered
her little footman, with his elegant blue livery covered with dirt and sketches in white chalk;
for, in the excitement of the game, Charlie had not observed that Kinch was engaged in drawing
on the back of his coat his favourite illustration, to wit, a skull and cross-bones.

"Isn't that our Charlie?" said she to her daughter, surveying the crowd of noisy boys through
her eye-glass. "I really believe it is--that is certainly our livery; pull the check-string,
and stop the carriage."

Now Robberts had been pressed into service in consequence of Charlie's absence, and was in
no very good humour at being compelled to air his rheumatic old shins behind the family-carriage.
It can therefore be readily imagined with what delight he recognized the delinquent footman
amidst the crowd, and with what alacrity he descended and pounced upon him just at the most
critical moment of the game. Clutching fast hold of him by the collar of his coat, he dragged
him to the carriage-window, and held him before the astonished eyes of his indignant mistress,
who lifted up her hands in horror at the picture he presented. "Oh! you wretched boy," said
she, "just look at your clothes, all covered with chalk-marks and bespattered with lime! Your
livery is totally ruined--and your knees, too--only look at them--the dirt is completely ground
into them."

"But you haven't seed his back, marm," said Robberts; "he's got the pirate's flag drawn on
it. That boy'll go straight to the devil--I know he will."

All this time Charlie, to his great discomfiture, was being shaken and turned about by Robberts
in the most unceremonious manner. Kinch, with his usual audacity, was meanwhile industriously
engaged in tracing on Robbert's coat a similar picture to that he had so skilfully drawn on
Charlie's, to the great delight of a crowd of boys who stood admiring spectators of his artistic
performances. The coachman, however, observing this operation, brought it to a rather hasty
conclusion by a well directed cut of the whip across the fingers of the daring young artist.
This so enraged Kinch, that in default of any other missile, he threw his lime-covered cap
at the head of the coachman; but, unfortunately for himself, the only result of his exertions
was the lodgment of his cap in the topmost bough of a neighbouring tree, from whence it was
rescued with great difficulty.

"What shall we do with him?" asked Mrs. Thomas, in a despairing tone, as she looked at Charlie.

"Put him with the coachman," suggested Mrs. Morton.

"He can't sit there, the horses are so restive, and the seat is only constructed for one, and
he would be in the coachman's way. I suppose he must find room on behind with Robberts."

"I won't ride on the old carriage," cried Charlie, nerved by despair; "I won't stay here nohow.
I'm going home to my mother;" and as he spoke he endeavoured to wrest himself from Robberts'
grasp. "Put him in here," said Mrs. Thomas; "it would never do to let him go, for he will run
home with some distressing tale of ill-treatment; no, we must keep him until I can send for
his mother--put him in here."

Much to Mrs. Morton's disgust, Charlie was bundled by Robberts into the bottom of the carriage,
where he sat listening to the scolding of Mrs. Thomas and her daughter until they arrived at
home. He remained in disgrace for several days after this adventure; but as Mrs. Thomas well
knew that she could not readily fill his place with another, she made a virtue of necessity,
and kindly looked over this first offence.

The situation was, however, growing more and more intolerable. Aunt Rachel and he had daily
skirmishes, in which he was very frequently worsted. He had held several hurried consultations
with Kinch through the grating of the cellar window, and was greatly cheered and stimulated
in the plans he intended to pursue by the advice and sympathy of his devoted friend. Master
Kinch's efforts to console Charlie were not without great risk to himself, as he had on two
or three occasions narrowly escaped falling into the clutches of Robberts, who well remembered
Kinch's unprecedented attempt upon the sacredness of his livery; and what the result might
have been had the latter fallen into his hands, we cannot contemplate without a shudder.

These conferences between Kinch and Charlie produced their natural effect, and latterly it
had been several times affirmed by aunt Rachel that, "Dat air boy was gittin' 'tirely too high--gittin'
bove hissef 'pletely--dat he was gittin' more and more aggriwatin' every day--dat she itched
to git at him--dat she 'spected nothin' else but what she'd be 'bliged to take hold o' him;"
and she comported herself generally as if she was crazy for the conflict which she saw must
sooner or later occur.

Charlie, unable on these occasions to reply to her remarks without precipitating a conflict
for which he did not feel prepared, sought to revenge himself upon the veteran Tom; and such
was the state of his feelings, that he bribed Kinch, with a large lump of sugar and the leg
of a turkey, to bring up his mother's Jerry, a fierce young cat, and they had the satisfaction
of shutting him up in the wood-house with the belligerent Tom, who suffered a signal defeat
at Jerry's claws, and was obliged to beat a hasty retreat through the window, with a seriously
damaged eye, and with the fur torn off his back in numberless places. After this Charlie had
the pleasure of hearing aunt Rachel frequently bewail the condition of her favourite, whose
deplorable state she was inclined to ascribe to his influence, though she was unable to bring
it home to him in such a manner as to insure his conviction.

CHAPTER VII.

Mrs. Thomas has her Troubles.

Mrs. Thomas was affected, as silly women sometimes are, with an intense desire to be at the
head of the ton. For this object she gave grand dinners and large evening parties, to which
were invited all who, being two or three removes from the class whose members occupy the cobbler's
bench or the huckster's stall, felt themselves at liberty to look down upon the rest of the
world from the pinnacle on which they imagined themselves placed. At these social gatherings
the conversation never turned upon pedigree, and if any of the guests chanced by accident to
allude to their ancestors, they spoke of them as members of the family, who, at an early period
of their lives, were engaged in mercantile pursuits.

At such dinners Mrs. Thomas would sit for hours, mumbling dishes that disagreed with her; smiling
at conversations carried on in villanous French, of which language she did not understand a
word; and admiring the manners of addle-headed young men (who got tipsy at her evening parties),
because they had been to Europe, and were therefore considered quite men of the world. These
parties and dinners she could not be induced to forego, although the late hours and fatigue
consequent thereon would place her on the sick-list for several days afterwards. As soon, however,
as she recovered sufficiently to resume her place at the table, she would console herself with
a dinner of boiled mutton and roasted turnips, as a slight compensation for the unwholesome
French dishes she had compelled herself to swallow on the occasions before mentioned. Amongst
the other modern fashions she had adopted, was that of setting apart one morning of the week
for the reception of visitors; and she had mortally offended several of her oldest friends
by obstinately refusing to admit them at any other time. Two or three difficulties had occurred
with Robberts, in consequence of this new arrangement, as he could not be brought to see the
propriety of saying to visitors that Mrs. Thomas was "not at home," when he knew she was at
that very moment upstairs peeping over the banisters. His obstinacy on this point had induced
her to try whether she could not train Charlie so as to fit him for the important office of
uttering the fashionable and truthless "not at home" with unhesitating gravity and decorum;
and, after a series of mishaps, she at last believed her object was effected, until an unlucky
occurrence convinced her to the contrary.

Mrs. Thomas, during the days on which she did not receive company, would have presented, to
any one who might have had the honour to see that venerable lady, an entirely different appearance
to that which she assumed on gala days. A white handkerchief supplied the place of the curling
wig, and the tasty French cap was replaced by a muslin one, decorated with an immense border
of ruffling, that flapped up and down over her silver spectacles in the most comical manner
possible. A short flannel gown and a dimity petticoat of very antique pattern and scanty dimensions,
completed her costume. Thus attired, and provided with a duster, she would make unexpected
sallies into the various domestic departments, to see that everything was being properly conducted,
and that no mal-practices were perpetrated at times when it was supposed she was elsewhere.
She showed an intuitive knowledge of all traps set to give intimation of her approach, and
would come upon aunt Rachel so stealthily as to induce her to declare, "Dat old Mrs. Thomas
put her more in mind of a ghost dan of any other libin animal."

One morning, whilst attired in the manner described, Mrs. Thomas had been particularly active
in her excursions through the house, and had driven the servants to their wits' ends by her
frequent descents upon them at the most unexpected times, thereby effectually depriving them
of the short breathing intervals they were anxious to enjoy. Charlie in particular had been
greatly harassed by her, and was sent flying from place to place until his legs were nearly
run off, as he expressed it. And so, when Lord Cutanrun, who was travelling in America to give
his estates in England an opportunity to recuperate, presented his card, Charlie, in revenge,
showed him into the drawing-room, where he knew that Mrs. Thomas was busily engaged trimming
an oil-lamp. Belying on the explicit order she had given to say that she was not at home, she
did not even look up when his lordship entered, and as he advanced towards her, she extended
to him a basin of dirty water, saying, "Here, take this." Receiving no response she looked
up, and to her astonishment and horror beheld, not Charlie, but Lord Cutanrun. In the agitation
consequent upon his unexpected appearance, she dropped the basin, the contents of which, splashing
in all directions, sadly discoloured his lordship's light pants, and greatly damaged the elegant
carpet.

"Oh! my lord," she exclaimed, "I didn't--couldn't--wouldn't--" and, unable to ejaculate further,
she fairly ran out of the apartment into the entry, where she nearly fell over Charlie, who
was enjoying the confusion his conduct had created. "Oh! you limb!--you little wretch!" said
she. "You knew I was not at home!"

"Why, where are you now?" he asked, with the most provoking air of innocence. "If you ain't
in the house now, you never was."

"Never mind, sir," said she, "never mind. I'll settle with you for this. Don't stand there
grinning at me; go upstairs and tell Mrs. Morton to come down immediately, and then get something
to wipe up that water. O dear! my beautiful carpet! And for a lord to see me in such a plight!
Oh! it's abominable! I'll give it to you, you scamp! You did it on purpose," continued the
indignant Mrs. Thomas. "Don't deny it--I know you did. What are you standing there for? Why
don't you call Mrs. Morton?" she concluded, as Charlie, chuckling over the result of his trick,
walked leisurely upstairs. "That boy will be the death of me," she afterwards said, on relating
the occurrence to her daughter. "Just to think, after all the trouble I've had teaching him
when to admit people and when not, that he should serve me such a trick. I'm confident he did
it purposely." Alas! for poor Mrs. Thomas; this was only the first of a series of annoyances
that Charlie had in store, with which to test her patience and effect his own deliverance.

A few days after, one of their grand dinners was to take place, and Charlie had been revolving
in his mind the possibility of his finding some opportunity, on that occasion, to remove the
old lady's wig; feeling confident that, could he accomplish that feat, he would be permitted
to turn his back for ever on the mansion of Mrs. Thomas.

Never had Mrs. Thomas appeared more radiant than at this dinner. All the guests whose attendance
she had most desired were present, a new set of china had lately arrived from Paris, and she
was in full anticipation of a grand triumph. Now, to Charlie had been assigned the important
duty of removing the cover from the soup-tureen which was placed before his mistress, and the
little rogue had settled upon that moment as the most favourable for the execution of his purpose.
He therefore secretly affixed a nicely crooked pin to the elbow of his sleeve, and, as he lifted
the cover, adroitly hooked it into her cap, to which he knew the wig was fastened, and in a
twinkling had it off her head, and before she could recover from her astonishment and lay down
the soup-ladle he had left the room. The guests stared and tittered at the grotesque figure
she presented,--her head being covered with short white hair, and her face as red as a peony
at the mortifying situation in which she was placed. As she rose from her chair Charlie presented
himself, and handed her the wig, with an apology for the accident. In her haste to put it on,
she turned it wrong side foremost; the laughter of the guests could now no longer be restrained,
and in the midst of it Mrs. Thomas left the room. Encountering Charlie as she went, she almost
demolished him in her wrath; not ceasing to belabour him till his outcries became so loud as
to render her fearful that he would alarm the guests; and she then retired to her room, where
she remained until the party broke up.

It was her custom, after these grand entertainments, to make nocturnal surveys of the kitchen,
to assure herself that none of the delicacies had been secreted by the servants for their personal
use and refreshment. Charlie, aware of this, took his measures for an ample revenge for the
beating he had received at her hands. At night, when all the rest of the family had retired,
he hastily descended to the kitchen, and, by some process known only to himself, imprisoned
the cat in a stone jar that always stood upon the dresser, and into which he was confident
Mrs. Thomas would peep. He then stationed himself upon the stairs, to watch the result. He
had not long to wait, for as soon as she thought the servants were asleep, she came softly
into the kitchen, and, after peering about in various places, she at last lifted up the lid
of the jar. Tom, tired of his long confinement, sprang out, and, in so doing, knocked the lamp
out of her hand, the fluid from which ignited and ran over the floor.

"Murder!--Fire!--Watch!" screamed the thoroughly frightened old woman. "Oh, help! help! fire!"
At this terrible noise nearly every one in the household was aroused, and hurried to the spot
whence it proceeded. They found Mrs. Thomas standing in the dark, with the lid of the jar in
her hand, herself the personification of terror. The carpet was badly burned in several places,
and the fragments of the lamp were scattered about the floor.

"What has happened?" exclaimed Mr. Morton, who was the first to enter the kitchen. "What is
all this frightful noise occasioned by?"

"Oh, there is a man in the house!" answered Mrs. Thomas, her teeth chattering with fright.
"There was a man in here--he has just sprung out," she continued, pointing to the bread-jar.

"Pooh, pooh--that's nonsense, madam," replied the son-in-law. "Why an infant could not get
in there, much less a man!"

"I tell you it was a man then," angrily responded Mrs. Thomas; "and he is in the house somewhere
now."

"Such absurdity!" muttered Mr. Morton; adding, in a louder tone: "Why, my dear mamma, you've
seen a mouse or something of the kind."

"Mouse, indeed!" interrupted the old lady. "Do you think I'm in my dotage, and I don't know
a man from a mouse?"

Just then the cat, whose back had got severely singed in the melee, set up a most lamentable
caterwauling; and, on being brought to light from the depths of a closet into which he had
flown, his appearance immediately discovered the share he had had in the transaction.

"It must have been the cat," said Robberts. "Only look at his back--why here the fur is singed
off him! I'll bet anything," continued he, "that air boy has had something to do with this--for
it's a clear case that the cat couldn't git into the jar, and then put the lid on hissef."

Tom's inability to accomplish this feat being most readily admitted on all sides, inquiry was
immediately made as to the whereabouts of Charlie; his absence from the scene being rather
considered as evidence of participation, for, it was argued, if he had been unaware of what
was to transpire, the noise would have drawn him to the spot at once, as he was always the
first at hand in the event of any excitement. Robberts was despatched to see if he was in his
bed, and returned with the intelligence that the bed had not even been opened. Search was immediately
instituted, and he was discovered in the closet at the foot of the stairs. He was dragged forth,
shaken, pummelled, and sent to bed, with the assurance that his mother should be sent for in
the morning, to take him home, and keep him there. This being exactly the point to which he
was desirous of bringing matters, he went to bed, and passed a most agreeable night.

Aunt Rachel, being one of those sleepers that nothing short of an earthquake can rouse until
their customary time for awaking, had slept soundly through the stirring events of the past
night. She came down in the morning in quite a placid state of mind, expecting to enjoy a day
of rest, as she had the night before sat up much beyond her usual time, to set matters to rights
after the confusion consequent on the dinner party. What was her astonishment, therefore, on
finding the kitchen she had left in a state of perfect order and cleanliness, in a condition
that resembled the preparation for an annual house-cleaning.

"Lord, bless us!" she exclaimed, looking round; "What on yarth has happened? I raly b'lieve
dere's bin a fire in dis 'ere house, and I never knowed a word of it. Why I might have bin
burnt up in my own bed! Dere's de lamp broke--carpet burnt--pots and skillets hauled out of
the closet--ebery ting turned upside down; why dere's bin a reg'lar 'sturbance down here,"
she continued, as she surveyed the apartment.

At this juncture, she espied Tom, who sat licking his paws before the fire, and presenting
so altered an appearance, from the events of the night, as to have rendered him unrecognizable
even by his best friend.

"Strange cat in de house! Making himself quite at home at dat," said aunt Rachel, indignantly.
Her wrath, already much excited, rose to the boiling point at what she deemed a most daring
invasion of her domain. She, therefore, without ceremony, raised a broom, with which she belaboured
the astonished Tom, who ran frantically from under one chair to another till he ensconced himself
in a small closet, from which he pertinaciously refused to be dislodged. "Won't come out of
dere, won't you?" said she. "I'll see if I can't make you den;" and poor Tom dodged behind
pots and kettles to avoid the blows which were aimed at him; at last, thoroughly enraged by
a hard knock on the back, he sprang fiercely into the face of his tormentor, who, completely
upset by the suddenness of his attack, fell sprawling on the floor, screaming loudly for help.
She was raised up by Robberts, who came running to her assistance, and, on being questioned
as to the cause of her outcries, replied:--

"Dere's a strange cat in de house--wild cat too, I raly b'lieve;" and spying Tom at that moment
beneath the table, she made another dash at him for a renewal of hostilities.

"Why that's Tom," exclaimed Robberts; "don't you know your own cat?"

"Oh," she replied, "dat ar isn't Tom now, is it? Why, what's the matter wid him?"

Robberts then gave her a detailed account of the transactions of the previous night, in which
account the share Charlie had taken was greatly enlarged and embellished; and the wrathful
old woman was listening to the conclusion when Charlie entered. Hardly had he got into the
room, when, without any preliminary discussion, aunt Rachel--to use her own words--pitched
into him to give him particular fits. Now Charlie, not being disposed to receive "particular
fits," made some efforts to return the hard compliments that were being showered upon him,
and the advice of Kinch providentially occurring to him--respecting an attack upon the understanding
of his venerable antagonist--he brought his hard shoes down with great force upon her pet corn,
and by this coup de pied completely demolished her. With a loud scream she let him go; and
sitting down upon the floor, declared herself lamed for life, beyond the possibility of recovery.
At this stage of the proceedings, Robberts came to the rescue of his aged coadjutor, and seized
hold of Charlie, who forthwith commenced so brisk an attack upon his rheumatic shins, as to
cause him to beat a hurried retreat, leaving Charlie sole master of the field. The noise that
these scuffles occasioned brought Mrs. Thomas into the kitchen, and Charlie was marched off
by her into an upstairs room, where he was kept in "durance vile" until the arrival of his mother.

Mrs. Thomas had a strong liking for Charlie--not as a boy, but as a footman. He was active
and intelligent, and until quite recently, extremely tractable and obedient; more than all,
he was a very good-looking boy, and when dressed in the Thomas livery, presented a highly-respectable
appearance. She therefore determined to be magnanimous--to look over past events, and to show
a Christian and forgiving spirit towards his delinquencies. She sent for Mrs. Ellis, with the
intention of desiring her to use her maternal influence to induce him to apologize to aunt
Rachel for his assault upon her corns, which apology Mrs. Thomas was willing to guarantee should
be accepted; as for the indignities that had been inflicted on herself, she thought it most
politic to regard them in the light of accidents, and to say as little about that part of the
affair as possible.

When Mrs. Ellis made her appearance on the day subsequent to the events just narrated, Mrs.
Thomas enlarged to her upon the serious damage that aunt Rachel had received, and the urgent
necessity that something should be done to mollify that important individual. When Charlie
was brought into the presence of his mother and Mrs. Thomas, the latter informed him, that,
wicked as had been his conduct towards herself, she was willing, for his mother's sake, to
look over it; but that he must humble himself in dust and ashes before the reigning sovereign
of the culinary kingdom, who, making the most of the injury inflicted on her toe, had declared
herself unfit for service, and was at that moment ensconced in a large easy-chair, listening
to the music of her favourite smoke-jack, whilst a temporary cook was getting up the dinner,
under her immediate supervision and direction. "Charlie, I'm quite ashamed of you," said his
mother, after listening to Mrs. Thomas's lengthy statement. "What has come over you, child?"--Charlie
stood biting his nails, and looking very sullen, but vouchsafed them no answer.--"Mrs. Thomas
is so kind as to forgive you, and says she will look over the whole affair, if you will beg
aunt Rachel's pardon. Come, now," continued Mrs. Ellis, coaxingly, "do, that's a good boy."

"Yes, do," added Mrs. Thomas, "and I will buy you a handsome new suit of livery."

This was too much for Charlie; the promise of another suit of the detested livery quite overcame
him, and he burst into tears.

"Why, what ails the boy? He's the most incomprehensible child I ever saw! The idea of crying
at the promise of a new suit of clothes!--any other child would have been delighted," concluded
Mrs. Thomas.

"I don't want your old button-covered uniform," said Charlie, "and I won't wear it, neither!
And as for aunt Rachel, I don't care how much she is hurt--I'm only sorry I didn't smash her
other toe; and I'll see her skinned, and be skinned myself, before I'll ask her pardon!"

Both Mrs. Thomas and Charlie's mother stood aghast at this unexpected declaration; and the
result of a long conference, held by the two, was that Charlie should be taken home, Mrs. Ellis
being unable to withstand his tears and entreaties.

As he passed through the kitchen on his way out, he made a face at aunt Rachel, who, in return,
threw at him one of the turnips she was peeling. It missed the object for which it was intended,
and came plump into the eye of Robberts, giving to that respectable individual for some time
thereafter the appearance of a prize-fighter in livery.

Charlie started for home in the highest spirits, which, however, became considerably lower
on his discovering his mother's view of his late exploits was very different from his own.
Mrs. Ellis's fondness and admiration of her son, although almost amounting to weakness, were
yet insufficient to prevent her from feeling that his conduct, even after making due allowance
for the provocation he had received, could not be wholly excused as mere boyish impetuosity
and love of mischievous fun. She knew that his father would feel it his duty, not only to reprimand
him, but to inflict some chastisement; and this thought was the more painful to her from the
consciousness, that but for her own weak compliance with Mrs. Thomas's request, her boy would
not have been placed in circumstances which his judgment and self-command had proved insufficient
to carry him through. The day, therefore, passed less agreeably than Charlie had anticipated;
for now that he was removed from the scene of his trials, he could not disguise from himself
that his behaviour under them had been very different from what it ought to have been, and
this had the salutary effect of bringing him into a somewhat humbler frame of mind. When his
father returned in the evening, therefore, Charlie appeared so crest-fallen that even Caddy
could scarcely help commiserating him, especially as his subdued state during the day had kept
him from committing any of those offences against tidiness which so frequently exasperated
her. Mr. Ellis, though very strict on what he thought points of duty, had much command of temper,
and was an affectionate father. He listened, therefore, with attention to the details of Charlie's
grievances, as well as of his misdemeanours, and some credit is due to him for the unshaken
gravity he preserved throughout. Although he secretly acquitted his son of any really bad intention,
he thought it incumbent on him to make Charlie feel in some degree the evil consequences of
his unruly behaviour. After giving him a serious lecture, and pointing out the impropriety
of taking such measures to deliver himself from the bondage in which his parents themselves
had thought fit to place him, without even appealing to them, he insisted on his making the
apologies due both to Mrs. Thomas and aunt Rachel (although he was fully aware that both had
only got their deserts); and, further, intimated that he would not be reinstated in his parents'
good graces until he had proved, by his good conduct and docility, that he was really sorry
for his misbehaviour. It was a severe trial to Charlie to make these apologies; but he well
knew that what his father had decided upon must be done--so he made a virtue of necessity,
and, accompanied by his mother, on the following day performed his penance with as good a grace
as he was able; and, in consideration of this submission, his father, when he came home in
the evening, greeted him with all his usual kindness, and the recollection of this unlucky
affair was at once banished from the family circle.

CHAPTER VIII.

Trouble in the Ellis Family.

Since the receipt of Mr. Garie's letter, Mrs. Ellis and Caddy had been busily engaged in putting
the house in a state of preparation for their reception. Caddy, whilst superintending its decoration,
felt herself in Elysium. For the first time in her life she had the supreme satisfaction of
having two unfortunate house-cleaners entirely at her disposal; consequently, she drove them
about and worried them to an extent unparalleled in any of their former experience. She sought
for and discovered on the windows (which they had fondly regarded as miracles of cleanliness)
sundry streaks and smears, and detected infinite small spots of paint and whitewash on the
newly-scrubbed floors. She followed them upstairs and downstairs, and tormented them to that
extent, that Charlie gave it as his private opinion that he should not be in the least surprised,
on going up there, to find that the two old women had made away with Caddy, and hidden her
remains in the coal-bin. Whilst she was thus engaged, to Charlie was assigned the duty of transporting
to Winter-street her diurnal portion of food, without a hearty share of which she found it
impossible to maintain herself in a state of efficiency; her labours in chasing the women about
the house being of a rather exhausting nature.

When he made the visits in question, Charlie was generally reconnoitred by his sister from
a window over the door, and was compelled to put his shoes through a system of purification,
devised by her for his especial benefit. It consisted of three courses of scraper, and two
of mat; this being considered by her as strictly necessary to bring his shoes to such a state
of cleanliness as would entitle him to admission into the premises of which she was the temporary
mistress.

Charlie, on two or three occasions finding a window open, made stealthy descents upon the premises
without first having duly observed these quarantine regulations; whereupon he was attacked
by Caddy, who, with the assistance of the minions under her command, so shook and pummelled
him as to cause his precipitate retreat through the same opening by which he had entered, and
that, too, in so short a space of time as to make the whole manoeuvre appear to him in the
light of a well-executed but involuntary feat of ground and lofty tumbling. One afternoon he
started with his sister's dinner, consisting of a dish of which she was particularly fond,
and its arrival was therefore looked for with unusual anxiety. Charlie, having gorged himself
to an almost alarming extent, did not make the haste that the case evidently demanded; and
as he several times stopped to act as umpire in disputed games of marbles (in the rules of
which he was regarded as an authority), he necessarily consumed a great deal of time on the way.

Caddy's patience was severely tried by the long delay, and her temper, at no time the most
amiable, gathered bitterness from the unprecedented length of her fast. Therefore, when he
at length appeared, walking leisurely up Winter-street, swinging the kettle about in the most
reckless manner, and setting it down on the pavement to play leap-frog over the fire-plugs,
her wrath reached a point that boded no good to the young trifler.

Now, whilst Charlie had been giving his attention to the difficulties growing out of the games
of marbles, he did not observe that one of the disputants was possessed of a tin kettle, in
appearance very similar to his own, by the side of which, in the excitement of the moment,
he deposited his own whilst giving a practical illustration of his view of the point under
consideration. Having accomplished this to his entire satisfaction, he resumed what he supposed
was his kettle, and went his way rejoicing.

Now, if Caddy Ellis had a fondness for one dish more than any other, it was for haricot, with
plenty of carrots; and knowing she was to have this for her dinner, she, to use her own pointed
expression, "had laid herself out to have a good meal." She had even abstained from her customary
lunch that she might have an appetite worthy of the occasion; and accordingly, long ere the
dinner hour approached, she was hungry as a wolf. Notwithstanding this fact, when Charlie made
his appearance at the door, she insisted on his going through all the accustomed forms with
the mat and scraper before entering the house; an act of self-sacrifice on her part entirely
uncalled for, as the day was remarkably fine, and Charlie's boots unusually clean.

He received two or three by no means gentle shoves and pokes as he entered, which he bore with
unusual indifference, making not the slightest effort at retaliation, as was his usual practice.
The fact is, Charlie was, as lions are supposed to be, quite disinclined for a fight after
a hearty meal, so he followed Caddy upstairs to the second story. Here she had got up an extempore
dining-table, by placing a pasting board across two chairs. Seating herself upon a stool, she
jerked off the lid of the kettle, and, to her horror and dismay, found not the favourite haricot,
but a piece of cheese-rind, a crust of dry bread, and a cold potatoe. Charlie, who was amusing
himself by examining the flowers in the new carpet, did not observe the look of surprise and
disgust that came over the countenance of his sister, as she took out, piece by piece, the
remains of some schoolboy's repast.

"Look here," she at last burst forth, "do you call this my dinner?"

"Yes," said Charlie, in a deliberate tone, "and a very good one too, I should say; if you can't
eat that dinner, you ought to starve; it's one of mother's best haricots." "You don't call
this cold potatoe and cheese-rind haricot, do you?" asked Caddy, angrily.

At this Charlie looked up, and saw before her the refuse scraps, which she had indignantly
emptied upon the table. He could scarcely believe his eyes; he got up and looked in the kettle,
but found no haricot. "Well," said he, with surprise, "if that don't beat me! I saw mother
fill it with haricot myself; I'm clean beat about it."

"Tell me what you've done with it, then," almost screamed the angry girl.

"I really don't know what has become of it," he answered, with a bewildered air. "I saw--I
saw--I--I--"

"You saw--you saw," replied the indignant Caddy, imitating his tone; and taking up the kettle,
she began to examine it more closely. "Why, this isn't even our kettle; look at this lid. I'm
sure it's not ours. You've been stopping somewhere to play, and exchanged it with some other
boy, that's just what you've done."

Just then it occurred to Charlie that at the place where he had adjusted the dispute about
the marbles, he had observed in the hands of one of the boys a kettle similar to his own; and
it flashed across his mind that he had then and there made the unfortunate exchange. He broke
his suspicion to Caddy in the gentlest manner, at the same time edging his way to the door
to escape the storm that he saw was brewing. The loss of her dinner--and of such a dinner--so
enraged the hungry girl, as to cause her to seize a brush lying near and begin to belabour
him without mercy. In his endeavour to escape from her his foot was caught in the carpet, and
he was violently precipitated down the long flight of stairs. His screams brought the whole
party to his assistance; even Kinch, who was sitting on the step outside, threw off his usual
dread of Caddy, and rushed into the house. "Oh, take me up," piteously cried Charlie; "oh,
take me up, I'm almost killed." In raising him, one of the old women took hold of his arm,
which caused him to scream again. "Don't touch my arm, please don't touch my arm; I'm sure
it's broke."

"No, no, it's not broke, only sprained, or a little twisted," said she; and, seizing it as
she spoke, she gave it a pull and a wrench, for the purpose of making it all right again; at
this Charlie's face turned deathly pale, and he fainted outright.

"Run for a doctor," cried the now thoroughly-alarmed Caddy; "run for the doctor! my brother's
dead!" and bursting into tears, she exclaimed, "Oh, I've killed my brother, I've killed my
brother!"

"Don't make so much fuss, child," soothingly replied one of the old women: "he's worth half
a dozen dead folk yet. Lor bless you, child, he's only fainted."

Water was procured and thrown in his face, and before Kinch returned with the doctor, he was
quite restored to consciousness.

"Don't cry, my little man," said the physician, as he took out his knife and ripped up the
sleeve of Charlie's coat. "Don't cry; let me examine your arm." Stripping up the shirt-sleeve,
he felt it carefully over, and shaking his head (physicians always shake their heads) pronounced
the arm broken, and that, too, in an extremely bad place. At this information Charlie began
again to cry, and Caddy broke forth into such yells of despair as almost to drive them distracted.

The physician kindly procured a carriage, and saw Charlie comfortably placed therein; and held
in the arms of Kinch, with the lamenting and disheartened Caddy on the opposite seat, he was
slowly driven home. The house was quite thrown into confusion by their arrival under such circumstances;
Mrs. Ellis, for a wonder, did not faint, but proceeded at once to do what was necessary. Mr.
Ellis was sent for, and he immediately despatched Kinch for Dr. Burdett, their family physician,
who came without a moment's delay. He examined Charlie's arm, and at first thought it would
be necessary to amputate it. At the mere mention of the word amputate, Caddy set up such a
series of lamentable howls as to cause her immediate ejectment from the apartment. Dr. Burdett
called in Dr. Diggs for a consultation, and between them it was decided that an attempt should
be made to save the injured member. "Now, Charlie," said Dr. Burdett, "I'm afraid we must hurt
you, my boy--but if you have any desire to keep this arm you must try to bear it."

"I'll bear anything to save my arm, doctor; I can't spare that," said he, manfully. "I'll want
it by-and-by to help take care of mother and the girls."

"You're a brave little fellow," said Dr. Diggs, patting him on the head, "so then we'll go
at it at once."

"Stop," cried Charlie, "let mother put her arm round my neck so, and Es, you hold the good
hand. Now then, I'm all right--fire away!" and clenching his lips hard, he waited for the doctor
to commence the operation of setting his arm. Charlie's mother tried to look as stoical as
possible, but the corners of her mouth would twitch, and there was a nervous trembling of her
under-lip; but she commanded herself, and only when Charlie gave a slight groan of pain, stooped
and kissed his forehead; and when she raised her head again, there was a tear resting on the
face of her son that was not his own. Esther was the picture of despair, and she wept bitterly
for the misfortune which had befallen her pet brother; and when the operation was over, refused
to answer poor Caddy's questions respecting Charlie's injuries, and scolded her with a warmth
and volubility that was quite surprising to them all.

"You must not be too hard on Caddy," remarked Mr. Ellis. "She feels bad enough, I'll warrant
you. It is a lesson that will not, I trust, be thrown away upon her; it will teach her to command
her temper in future."

Caddy was in truth quite crushed by the misfortune she had occasioned, and fell into such a
state of depression and apathy as to be scarcely heard about the house; indeed, so subdued
was she, that Kinch went in and out without wiping his feet, and tracked the mud all over the
stair-carpet, and yet she uttered no word of remonstrance.

Poor little Charlie suffered much, and was in a high fever. The knocker was tied up, the windows
darkened, and all walked about the house with sad and anxious countenances. Day after day the
fever increased, until he grew delirious, and raved in the most distressing manner. The unfortunate
haricot was still on his mind, and he was persecuted by men with strange-shaped heads and carrot
eyes. Sometimes he imagined himself pursued by Caddy, and would cry in the most piteous manner
to have her prevented from beating him. Then his mind strayed off to the marble-ground, where
he would play imaginary games, and laugh over his success in such a wild and frightful manner
as to draw tears from the eyes of all around him. He was greatly changed; the bright colour
had fled from his cheek; his head had been shaved, and he was thin and wan, and at times they
were obliged to watch him, and restrain him from tossing about, to the great peril of his broken
arm.

At last his situation became so critical that Dr. Burdett began to entertain but slight hopes
of his recovery; and one morning, in the presence of Caddy, hinted as much to Mr. Ellis.

"Oh, doctor, doctor," exclaimed the distracted girl, "don't say that! oh, try and save him!
How could I live with the thought that I had killed my brother! oh, I can't live a day if he
dies! Will God ever forgive me? Oh, what a wretch I have been! Oh, do think of something that
will help him! He mustn't die, you must save him!" and crying passionately, she threw herself
on the floor in an agony of grief. They did their best to pacify her, but all their efforts
were in vain, until Mr. Ellis suggested, that since she could not control her feelings, she
must be sent to stay with her aunt, as her lamentations and outcries agitated her suffering
brother and made his condition worse. The idea of being excluded from the family circle at
such a moment had more effect on Caddy than all previous remonstrances. She implored to have
the sentence suspended for a time at least, that she might try to exert more self-command;
and Mr. Ellis, who really pitied her, well knowing that her heart was not in fault, however
reprehensible she was in point of temper, consented; and Caddy's behaviour from that moment
proved the sincerity of her promises; and though she could not quite restrain occasional outbursts
of senseless lamentation, still, when she felt such fits of despair coming on, she wisely retired
to some remote corner of the house, and did not re-appear till she had regained her composure.

The crisis was at length over, and Charlie was pronounced out of danger. No one was more elated
by this announcement than our friend Kinch, who had, in fact, grown quite ashy in his complexion
from confinement and grief, and was now thrown by this intelligence into the highest possible
spirits. Charlie, although faint and weak, was able to recognize his friends, and derived great
satisfaction from the various devices of Kinch to entertain him. That young gentleman quite
distinguished himself by the variety and extent of his resources. He devised butting matches
between himself and a large gourd, which he suspended from the ceiling, and almost blinded
himself by his attempts to butt it sufficiently hard to cause it to rebound to the utmost length
of the string, and might have made an idiot of himself for ever by his exertions, but for the
timely interference of Mr. Ellis, who put a final stop to this diversion. Then he dressed himself
in a short gown and nightcap, and made the pillow into a baby, and played the nurse with it
to such perfection, that Charlie felt obliged to applaud by knocking with the knuckles of his
best hand upon the head-board of his bedstead. On the whole, he was so overjoyed as to be led
to commit all manner of eccentricities, and conducted himself generally in such a ridiculous
manner, that Charlie laughed himself into a state of prostration, and Kinch was, in consequence,
banished from the sick-room, to be re-admitted only on giving his promise to abstain from being
as funny as he could any more. After the lapse of a short time Charlie was permitted to sit
up, and held regular levees of his schoolmates and little friends. He declared it was quite
a luxury to have a broken arm, as it was a source of so much amusement. The old ladies brought
him jellies and blanc-mange, and he was petted and caressed to such an unparalleled extent,
as to cause his delighted mother to aver that she lived in great fear of his being spoiled
beyond remedy. At length he was permitted to come downstairs and sit by the window for a few
hours each day. Whilst thus amusing himself one morning, a handsome carriage stopped before
their house, and from it descended a fat and benevolent-looking old lady, who knocked at the
door and rattled the latch as if she had been in the daily habit of visiting there, and felt
quite sure of a hearty welcome. She was let in by Esther, and, on sitting down, asked if Mrs.
Ellis was at home. Whilst Esther was gone to summon her mother, the lady looked round the room,
and espying Charlie, said, "Oh, there you are--I'm glad to see you; I hope you are improving."

"Yes, ma'am," politely replied Charlie, wondering all the time who their visitor could be.

"You don't seem to remember me--you ought to do so; children seldom forget any one who makes
them a pleasant promise."

As she spoke, a glimmer of recollection shot across Charlie's mind, and he exclaimed, "You
are the lady who came to visit the school."

"Yes; and I promised you a book for your aptness, and," continued she, taking from her reticule
a splendidly-bound copy of "Robinson Crusoe," "here it is."

Mrs. Ellis, as soon as she was informed that a stranger lady was below, left Caddy to superintend
alone the whitewashing of Charlie's sick-room, and having hastily donned another gown and a
more tasty cap, descended to see who the visitor could be.

"You must excuse my not rising," said Mrs. Bird, for that was the lady's name; "it is rather
a difficulty for me to get up and down often--so," continued she, with a smile, "you must excuse
my seeming rudeness."

Mrs. Ellis answered, that any apology was entirely unnecessary, and begged she would keep her
seat. "I've come," said Mrs. Bird, "to pay your little man a visit. I was so much pleased with
the manner in which he recited his exercises on the day of examination, that I promised him
a book, and on going to the school to present it, I heard of his unfortunate accident. He looks
very much changed--he has had a very severe time, I presume?"

"Yes, a very severe one. We had almost given him over, but it pleased God to restore him,"
replied Mrs. Ellis, in a thankful tone. "He is very weak yet," she continued, "and it will
be a long time before he is entirely recovered."

"Who is your physician?" asked Mrs. Bird.

"Doctor Burdett," was the reply; "he has been our physician for years, and is a very kind friend
of our family."

"And of mine, too," rejoined Mrs. Bird; "he visits my house every summer. What does he think
of the arm?" she asked.

"He thinks in time it will be as strong as ever, and recommends sending Charlie into the country
for the summer; but," said Mrs. Ellis, "we are quite at a loss where to send him."

"Oh! let me take him," said Mrs. Bird--"I should be delighted to have him. I've got a beautiful
place--he can have a horse to ride, and there are wide fields to scamper over! Only let me
have him, and I'll guarantee to restore him to health in a short time."

"You're very kind," replied Mrs. Ellis--"I'm afraid he would only be a burthen to you--be a
great deal of trouble, and be able to do but little work."

"Work! Why, dear woman," replied Mrs. Bird, with some astonishment, "I don't want him to work--I've
plenty of servants; I only want him to enjoy himself, and gather as much strength as possible.
Come, make up your mind to let him go with me, and I'll send him home as stout as I am."

At the bare idea of Charlie's being brought to such a state of obesity, Kinch, who, during
the interview, had been in the back part of the room, making all manner of faces, was obliged
to leave the apartment, to prevent a serious explosion of laughter, and after their visitor
had departed he was found rolling about the floor in a tempest of mirth.

After considerable conversation relative to the project, Mrs. Bird took her leave, promising
to call soon again, and advising Mrs. Ellis to accept her offer. Mrs. Ellis consulted Dr. Burdett,
who pronounced it a most fortunate circumstance, and said the boy could not be in better hands;
and as Charlie appeared nothing loth, it was decided he should go to Warmouth, to the great
grief of Kinch, who thought it a most unheard-of proceeding, and he regarded Mrs. Bird thenceforth
as his personal enemy, and a wilful disturber of his peace.

CHAPTER IX.

Breaking up.

The time for the departure of the Garies having been fixed, all in the house were soon engaged
in the bustle of preparation. Boxes were packed with books, pictures, and linen; plate and
china were wrapped and swaddled, to prevent breakage and bruises; carpets were taken up, and
packed away; curtains taken down, and looking-glasses covered. Only a small part of the house
was left in a furnished state for the use of the overseer, who was a young bachelor, and did
not require much space.

In superintending all these arrangements Mrs. Garie displayed great activity; her former cheerfulness
of manner had entirely returned, and Mr. Garie often listened with delight to the quick pattering
of her feet, as she tripped lightly through the hall, and up and down the long stairs. The
birds that sang about the windows were not more cheerful than herself, and when Mr. Garie heard
her merry voice singing her lively songs, as in days gone by, he experienced a feeling of satisfaction
at the pleasant result of his acquiescence in her wishes. He had consented to it as an act
of justice due to her and the children; there was no pleasure to himself growing out of the
intended change, beyond that of gratifying Emily, and securing freedom to her and the children.
He knew enough of the North to feel convinced that he could not expect to live there openly
with Emily, without being exposed to ill-natured comments, and closing upon himself the doors
of many friends who had formerly received him with open arms. The virtuous dignity of the Northerner
would be shocked, not so much at his having children by a woman of colour, but by his living
with her in the midst of them, and acknowledging her as his wife. In the community where he
now resided, such things were more common; the only point in which he differed from many other
Southern gentlemen in this matter was in his constancy to Emily and the children, and the more
than ordinary kindness and affection with which he treated them. Mr. Garie had for many years
led a very retired life, receiving an occasional gentleman visitor; but this retirement had
been entirely voluntary, therefore by no means disagreeable; but in the new home he had accepted,
he felt that he might be shunned, and the reflection was anything but agreeable. Moreover,
he was about to leave a place endeared to him by a thousand associations. Here he had passed
the whole of his life, except about four years spent in travelling through Europe and America.

Mr. Garie was seated in a room where there were many things to recall days long since departed.
The desk at which he was writing was once his father's, and he well remembered the methodical
manner in which every drawer was carefully kept; over it hung a full-length portrait of his
mother, and it seemed, as he gazed at it, that it was only yesterday that she had taken his
little hand in her own, and walked with him down the long avenue of magnolias that were waving
their flower-spangled branches in the morning breeze, and loading it with fragrance. Near him
was the table on which her work-basket used to stand. He remembered how important he felt when
permitted to hold the skeins of silk for her to wind, and how he would watch her stitch, stitch,
hour after hour, at the screen that now stood beside the fire-place; the colours were faded,
but the recollection of the pleasant smiles she would cast upon him from time to time, as she
looked up from her work, was as fresh in his memory as if it were but yesterday. Mr. Garie
was assorting and arranging the papers that the desk contained, when he heard the rattle of
wheels along the avenue, and looking out of the window, he saw a carriage approaching.

The coachman was guiding his horses with one hand, and with the other he was endeavouring to
keep a large, old-fashioned trunk from falling from the top. This was by no means an easy matter,
as the horses appeared quite restive, and fully required his undivided attention. The rather
unsteady motion of the carriage caused its inmate to put his head out of the window, and Mr.
Garie recognized his uncle John, who lived in the north-western part of the state, on the borders
of Alabama. He immediately left his desk, and hastened to the door to receive him.

"This is an unexpected visit, but none the less pleasant on that account," said Mr. Garie,
his face lighting up with surprise and pleasure as uncle John alighted. "I had not the least
expectation of being honoured by a visit from you. What has brought you into this part of the
country? Business, of course? I can't conceive it possible that you should have ventured so
far from home, at this early season, for the mere purpose of paying me a visit."

"You may take all the honour to yourself this time," smilingly replied uncle John, "for I have
come over for your especial benefit; and if I accomplish the object of my journey, I shall
consider the time anything but thrown away."

"Let me take your coat; and, Eph, see you to that trunk," said Mr. Garie. "You see everything
is topsy-turvy with us, uncle John. We look like moving, don't we?"

"Like that or an annual house-cleaning," he replied, as he picked his way through rolls of
carpet and matting, and between half-packed boxes; in doing which, he had several narrow escapes
from the nails that protruded from them on all sides. "It's getting very warm; let me have
something to drink," said he, wiping his face as he took his seat; "a julep--plenty of brandy
and ice, and but little mint."

Eph, on receiving this order, departed in great haste in search of Mrs. Garie, as he knew that,
whilst concocting one julep, she might be prevailed upon to mix another, and Eph had himself
a warm liking for that peculiar Southern mixture, which liking he never lost any opportunity
to gratify.

Emily hurried downstairs, on hearing of the arrival of uncle John, for he was regarded by her
as a friend. She had always received from him marked kindness and respect, and upon the arrival
of Mr. Garie's visitors, there was none she received with as much pleasure. Quickly mixing
the drink, she carried it into the room where he and her husband were sitting. She was warmly
greeted by the kind-hearted old man, who, in reply to her question if he had come to make them
a farewell visit, said he hoped not: he trusted to make them many more in the same place.

"I'm afraid you won't have an opportunity," she replied. "In less than a week we expect to
be on our way to New York.--I must go," continued she, "and have a room prepared for you, and
hunt up the children. You'll scarcely know them, they have grown so much since you were here.
I'll soon send them," and she hurried off to make uncle John's room comfortable.

"I was never more surprised in my life," said the old gentleman, depositing the glass upon
the table, after draining it of its contents--"never more surprised than when I received your
letter, in which you stated your intention of going to the North to live. A more ridiculous
whim it is impossible to conceive--the idea is perfectly absurd! To leave a fine old place
like this, where you have everything around you so nice and comfortable, to go north, and settle
amongst a parcel of strange Yankees! My dear boy, you must give it up. I'm no longer your guardian--the
law don't provide one for people of thirty years and upwards--so it is out of my power to say
you shall not do it; but I am here to use all my powers of persuasion to induce you to relinquish
the project."

"Uncle John, you don't seem to understand the matter. It is not a whim, by any means--it is
a determination arising from a strict sense of duty; I feel that it is an act of justice to
Emily and the children. I don't pretend to be better than most men; but my conscience will
not permit me to be the owner of my own flesh and blood. I'm going north, because I wish to
emancipate and educate my children--you know I can't do it here. At first I was as disinclined
to favour the project as you are; but I am now convinced it is my duty, and, I must add, that
my inclination runs in the same direction."

"Look here, Clarence, my boy," here interrupted uncle John; "you can't expect to live there
as you do here; the prejudice against persons of colour is much stronger in some of the Northern
cities than it is amongst us Southerners. You can't live with Emily there as you do here; you
will be in everybody's mouth. You won't be able to sustain your old connections with your Northern
friends--you'll find that they will cut you dead."

"I've looked at it well, uncle John. I've counted the cost, and have made up my mind to meet
with many disagreeable things. If my old friends choose to turn their backs on me because my
wife happens to belong to an oppressed race, that is not my fault. I don't feel that I have
committed any sin by making the choice I have; and so their conduct or opinions won't influence
my happiness much."

"Listen to me, Clary, for a moment," rejoined the old gentleman. "As long as you live here
in Georgia you can sustain your present connection with impunity, and if you should ever want
to break it off, you could do so by sending her and the children away; it would be no more
than other men have done, and are doing every day. But go to the North, and it becomes a different
thing. Your connection with Emily will inevitably become a matter of notoriety, and then you
would find it difficult to shake her off there, as you could here, in case you wanted to marry
another woman."

"Oh, uncle, uncle, how can you speak so indifferently about my doing such an ungenerous act;
to characterize it in the very mildest terms. I feel that Emily is as much my wife in the eyes
of God, as if a thousand clergymen had united us. It is not my fault that we are not legally
married; it is the fault of the laws. My father did not feel that my mother was any more his
wife, than I do that Emily is mine."

"Hush, hush; that is all nonsense, boy; and, besides, it is paying a very poor compliment to
your mother to rank her with your mulatto mistress. I like Emily very much; she has been kind,
affectionate, and faithful to you. Yet I really can't see the propriety of your making a shipwreck
of your whole life on her account. Now," continued uncle John, with great earnestness, "I hoped
for better things from you. You have talents and wealth; you belong to one of the oldest and
best families in the State. When I am gone, you will be the last of our name; I had hoped that
you would have done something to keep it from sinking into obscurity. There is no honour in
the State to which you might not have aspired with a fair chance of success; but if you carry
out your absurd determination, you will ruin yourself effectually."

"Well; I shall be ruined then, for I am determined to go. I feel it my duty to carry out my
design," said Mr. Garie.

"Well, well, Clary," rejoined his uncle, "I've done my duty to my brother's son. I own, that
although I cannot agree with you in your project, I can and do honour the unselfish motive
that prompts it. You will always find me your friend under all circumstances, and now," concluded
he, "it's off my mind."

The children were brought in and duly admired; a box of miniature carpenter's tools was produced;
also, a wonderful man with a string through his waist--which string, when pulled, caused him
to throw his arms and legs about in a most astonishing manner. The little folks were highly
delighted with these presents, which, uncle John had purchased at Augusta; they scampered off,
and soon had every small specimen of sable humanity on the place at their heels, in ecstatic
admiration of the wonderful articles of which they had so recently acquired possession. As
uncle John had absolutely refused all other refreshment than the julep before mentioned, dinner
was ordered at a much earlier hour than usual. He ate very heartily, as was his custom; and,
moreover, persisted in stuffing the children (as old gentlemen will do sometimes) until their
mother was compelled to interfere to prevent their having a bilious attack in consequence.
Whilst the gentlemen were sitting over their desert, Mr. Garie asked his uncle, if he had not
a sister, with whom there was some mystery connected.

"No mystery," replied uncle John. "Your aunt made a very low marriage, and father cut her off
from the family entirely. It happened when I was very young; she was the eldest of us all;
there were four of us, as you know--your father, Bernard, I, and this sister of whom we are
speaking. She has been dead for some years; she married a carpenter whom father employed on
the place--a poor white man from New York. I have heard it said, that he was handsome, but
drunken and vicious. They left one child--a boy; I believe he is alive in the North somewhere,
or was, a few years since."

"And did she never make any overtures for a reconciliation?"

"She did, some years before father's death, but he was inexorable; he returned her letter,
and died without seeing or forgiving her," replied uncle John.

"Poor thing; I suppose they were very poor?"

"I suppose they were. I have no sympathy for her. She deserved her fate, for marrying a greasy
mechanic, in opposition to her father's commands, when she might have connected herself with
any of the highest families in the State."

The gentlemen remained a long while that night, sipping their wine, smoking cigars, and discussing
the probable result of the contemplated change. Uncle John seemed to have the worst forebodings
as to the ultimate consequences, and gave it as his decided opinion, that they would all return
to the old place in less than a year.

"You'll soon get tired of it," said he; "everything is so different there. Here you can get
on well in your present relations; but mark me, you'll find nothing but disappointment and
trouble where you are going."

The next morning he departed for his home; he kissed the children affectionately, and shook
hands warmly with their mother. After getting into the carriage, he held out his hand again
to his nephew, saying:--

"I am afraid you are going to be disappointed; but I hope you may not. Good bye, good bye--God
bless you!" and his blue eyes looked very watery, as he was driven from the door.

That day, a letter arrived from Savannah, informing them that the ship in which they had engaged
passage would be ready to sail in a few days; and they, therefore, determined that the first
instalment of boxes and trunks should be sent to the city forthwith; and to Eph was assigned
the melancholy duty of superintending their removal.

"Let me go with him, pa," begged little Clarence, who heard his father giving Eph his instructions.

"Oh, no," replied Mr. Garie; "the cart will be full of goods, there will be no room for you."

"But, pa, I can ride my pony; and, besides, you might let me go, for I shan't have many more
chances to ride him--do let me go."

"Oh, yes, massa, let him go. Why dat ar chile can take care of his pony all by hissef. You
should just seed dem two de oder day. You see de pony felt kinder big dat day, an' tuck a heap
o' airs on hissef, an' tried to trow him--twarn't no go--Massa Clary conquered him 'pletely.
Mighty smart boy, dat," continued Eph, looking at little Clarence, admiringly, "mighty smart.
I let him shoot off my pistol toder day, and he pat de ball smack through de bull's eye--dat
boy is gwine to be a perfect Ramrod."

"Oh, pa," laughingly interrupted little Clarence; "I've been telling him of what you read to
me about Nimrod being a great hunter."

"That's quite a mistake, Eph," said Mr. Garie, joining in the laugh. "Well, I knowed it was
suffin," said Eph, scratching his head; "suffin with a rod to it; I was all right on that pint--but
you'r gwine to let him go, ain't yer, massa?"

"I suppose, I must," replied Mr. Garie; "but mind now that no accident occurs to young Ramrod."

"I'll take care o' dat," said Eph, who hastened off to prepare the horses, followed by the
delighted Clarence.

That evening, after his return from Savannah, Clarence kept his little sister's eyes expanded
to an unprecedented extent by his narration of the wonderful occurrences attendant on his trip
to town, and also of what he had seen in the vessel. He produced an immense orange, also a
vast store of almonds and raisins, which had been given him by the good-natured steward. "But
Em," said he, "we are going to sleep in such funny little places; even pa and mamma have got
to sleep on little shelves stuck up against the wall; and they've got a thing that swings from
the ceiling that they keep the tumblers and wine-glasses in--every glass has got a little hole
for itself. Oh, it's so nice!"

"And have they got any nice shady trees on the ship?" asked the wondering little Em.

"Oh, no--what nonsense!" answered Clarence, swelling with the importance conferred by his superior
knowledge. "Why, no, Em; who ever heard of such a thing as trees on a ship? they couldn't have
trees on a ship if they wanted--there's no earth for them to grow in. But I'll tell you what
they've got--they've got masts a great deal higher than any tree, and I'm going to climb clear
up to the top when we go to live on the ship."

"I wouldn't," said Em; "you might fall down like Ben did from the tree, and then you'd have
to have your head sewed up as he had."

The probability that an occurrence of this nature might be the result of his attempt to climb
the mast seemed to have considerable weight with Master Clarence, so he relieved his sister's
mind at once by relinquishing the project.

The morning for departure at length arrived. Eph brought the carriage to the door at an early
hour, and sat upon the box the picture of despair. He did not descend from his eminence to
assist in any of the little arrangements for the journey, being very fearful that the seat
he occupied might be resumed by its rightful owner, he having had a lengthy contest with the
sable official who acted as coachman, and who had striven manfully, on this occasion, to take
possession of his usual elevated station on the family equipage. This, Eph would by no means
permit, as he declared, "He was gwine to let nobody drive Massa dat day but hissef."

It was a mournful parting. The slaves crowded around the carriage kissing and embracing the
children, and forcing upon them little tokens of remembrance. Blind Jacob, the patriarch of
the place, came and passed his hands over the face of little Em for the last time, as he had
done almost every week since her birth, that, to use his own language, "he might see how de
piccaninny growed." His bleared and sightless eyes were turned to heaven to ask a blessing
on the little ones and their parents.

"Why, daddy Jake, you should not take it so hard," said Mr. Garie, with an attempt at cheerfulness.
"You'll see us all again some day."

"No, no, massa, I'se feared I won't; I'se gettin' mighty old, massa, and I'se gwine home soon.
I hopes I'll meet you all up yonder," said he, pointing heavenward. "I don't 'spect to see
any of you here agin."

Many of the slaves were in tears, and all deeply lamented the departure of their master and
his family, for Mr. Garie had always been the kindest of owners, and Mrs. Garie was, if possible,
more beloved than himself. She was first at every sick-bed, and had been comforter-general
to all the afflicted and distressed in the place.

At last the carriage rolled away, and in a few hours they reached Savannah, and immediately
went on board the vessel.

CHAPTER X.

Another Parting.

Mrs. Ellis had been for some time engaged in arranging and replenishing Charlie's wardrobe,
preparatory to his journey to Warmouth with Mrs. Bird. An entire new suit of grey cloth had
been ordered of the tailor, to whom Mrs. Ellis gave strict injunctions not to make them too
small. Notwithstanding the unfavourable results of several experiments, Mrs. Ellis adhered
with wonderful tenacity to the idea that a boy's clothes could never be made too large, and,
therefore, when Charlie had a new suit, it always appeared as if it had been made for some
portly gentleman, and sent home to Charlie by mistake.

This last suit formed no exception to the others, and Charlie surveyed with dismay its ample
dimensions as it hung from the back of the chair. "Oh, gemini!" said he, "but that jacket is
a rouser! I tell you what, mother, you'll have to get out a search-warrant to find me in that
jacket; now, mind, I tell you!"

"Nonsense!" replied Mrs. Ellis, "it don't look a bit too large; put it on."

Charlie took up the coat, and in a twinkling had it on over his other. His hands were almost
completely lost in the excessively long sleeves, which hung down so far that the tips of his
fingers were barely visible. "Oh, mother!" he exclaimed, "just look at these sleeves--if such
a thing were to happen that any one were to offer me a half dollar, they would change their
mind before I could get my hand out to take it; and it will almost go twice round me, it is
so large in the waist."

"Oh, you can turn the sleeves up; and as for the waist--you'll soon grow to it; it will be
tight enough for you before long, I'll warrant," said Mrs. Ellis.

"But, mother," rejoined Charlie, "that is just what you said about the other blue suit, and
it was entirely worn out before you had let down the tucks in the trowsers."

"Never mind the blue suit," persisted Mrs. Ellis, entirely unbiassed by this statement of facts.
"You'll grow faster this time--you're going into the country, you must remember--boys always
grow fast in the country; go into the other room and try on the trowsers."

Charlie retired into another room with the trowsers in question. Here he was joined by Kinch,
who went into fits of laughter over Charlie's pea-jacket, as he offensively called the new coat.

"Why, Charlie," said he, "it fits you like a shirt on a bean-pole, or rather it's like a sentry's
box--it don't touch you any where. But get into these pants," said he, almost choking with
the laughter that Charlie's vexed look caused him to suppress--"get into the pants;" at the
same time tying a string round Charlie's neck.

"What are you doing that for?" exclaimed Charlie, in an irritated tone; "I shouldn't have thought
you would make fun of me!"

"Oh," said Kinch, assuming a solemn look, "don't they always tie a rope round a man's body
when they are going to lower him into a pit? and how on earth do you ever expect we shall find
you in the legs of them trowsers, unless something is fastened to you?" Here Charlie was obliged
to join in the laugh that Kinch could no longer restrain.

"Stop that playing, boys," cried Mrs. Ellis, as their noisy mirth reached her in the adjoining
room; "you forget I am waiting for you."

Charlie hastily drew on the trousers, and found that their dimensions fully justified the precaution
Kinch was desirous of taking to secure him from sinking into oblivion.

"Oh, I can't wear these things," said Charlie, tears of vexation starting from his eyes. "Why,
they are so large I can't even keep them up; and just look at the legs, will you--they'll have
to be turned up a quarter of a yard at least."

"Here," said Kinch, seizing a large pillow, "I'll stuff this in. Oh, golly, how you look! if
you ain't a sight to see!" and he shouted with laughter as he surveyed Charlie, to whom the
pillow had imparted the appearance of a London alderman. "If you don't look like Squire Baker
now, I'll give it up. You are as big as old Daddy Downhill. You are a regular Daniel Lambert!"

The idea of looking like Squire Baker and Daddy Downhill, who were the "fat men" of their acquaintance,
amused Charlie as much as it did his companion, and making the house ring with their mirth,
they entered the room where Mr. Ellis and the girls had joined Mrs. Ellis.

"What on earth is the matter with the child?" exclaimed Mr. Ellis, as he gazed upon the grotesque
figure Charlie presented. "What has the boy been doing to himself?" Hereupon Kinch explained
how matters stood, to the infinite amusement of all parties.

"Oh, Ellen," said Mr. Ellis, "you must have them altered; they're a mile too big for him. I
really believe they would fit me."

"They do look rather large," said Mrs. Ellis, reluctantly; "but it seems such a waste to take
them in, as he grows so fast."

"He would not grow enough in two years to fill that suit," rejoined Mr. Ellis; "and he will
have worn them out in less than six months;" and so, to the infinite satisfaction of Charlie,
it was concluded that they should be sent back to the tailor's for the evidently necessary
alterations.

The day for Charlie's departure at last arrived.

Kinch, who had been up since two o'clock in the morning, was found by Caddy at the early hour
of five waiting upon the door-step to accompany his friend to the wharf. Beside him lay a bag,
in which there appeared to be some living object.

"What have you got in here?" asked Caddy, as she gave the bag a punch with the broom she was
using. "It's a present for Charlie," replied Kinch, opening the bag, and displaying, to the
astonished gaze of Caddy, a very young pig.

"Why," said she, laughing, "you don't expect he can take that with him, do you?"

"Why not?" asked Kinch, taking up the bag and carrying it into the house. "It's just the thing
to take into the country; Charlie can fatten him and sell him for a lot of money."

It was as much as Mrs. Ellis could do to convince Charlie and Kinch of the impracticability
of their scheme of carrying off to Warmouth the pig in question. She suggested, as it was the
exclusive property of Kinch, and he was so exceedingly anxious to make Charlie a parting gift,
that she should purchase it, which she did, on the spot; and Kinch invested all the money in
a large cross-bow, wherewith Charlie was to shoot game sufficient to supply both Kinch and
his own parents. Had Charlie been on his way to the scaffold, he could not have been followed
by a more solemn face than that presented by Kinch as he trudged on with him in the rear the
porter who carried the trunk.

"I wish you were not going," said he, as he put his arm affectionately over Charlie's shoulder,
"I shall be so lonesome when you are gone; and what is more, I know I shall get licked every
day in school, for who will help me with my sums?"

"Oh, any of the boys will, they all like you, Kinch; and if you only study a little harder,
you can do them yourself," was Charlie's encouraging reply.

On arriving at the boat, they found. Mrs. Bird waiting for them; so Charlie hastily kissed
his mother and sisters, and made endless promises not to be mischievous, and, above all, to
be as tidy as possible. Then tearing himself away from them, and turning to Kinch, he exclaimed,
"I'll be back to see you all again soon, so don't cry old fellow;" and at the same time thrusting
his hand into his pocket, he drew out a number of marbles, which he gave him, his own lips
quivering all the while. At last his attempts to suppress his tears and look like a man grew
entirely futile, and he cried heartily as Mrs. Bird took his hand and drew him on board the
steamer.

As it slowly moved from the pier and glided up the river, Charlie stood looking with tearful
eyes at his mother and sisters, who, with Kinch, waved their handkerchiefs as long as they
could distinguish him, and then he saw them move away with the crowd.

Mrs. Bird, who had been conversing with a lady who accompanied her a short distance on her
journey, came and took her little protege by the hand, and led him to a seat near her in the
after part of the boat, informing him, as she did so, that they would shortly exchange the
steamer for the cars, and she thought he had better remain near her.

After some time they approached the little town where the passengers took the train for New
York. Mrs. Bird, who had taken leave of her friend, held Charlie fast by the hand, and they
entered the cars together. He looked a little pale and weak from the excitement of parting
and the novelty of his situation. Mrs. Bird, observing his pallid look, placed him on a seat,
and propped him up with shawls and cushions, making him as comfortable as possible.

The train had not long started, when the conductor came through to inspect the tickets, and
quite started with surprise at seeing Charlie stretched at full length upon the velvet cushion.
"What are you doing here?" exclaimed he, at the same time shaking him roughly, to arouse him
from the slight slumber into which he had fallen. "Come, get up: you must go out of this."

"What do you mean by such conduct?" asked Mrs. Bird, very much surprised. "Don't wake him;
I've got his ticket; the child is sick."

"I don't care whether he's sick or well--he can't ride in here. We don't allow niggers to ride
in this car, no how you can fix it--so come, youngster," said he, gruffly, to the now aroused
boy, "you must travel out of this."

"He shall do no such thing," replied Mrs. Bird, in a decided tone; "I've paid fall price for
his ticket, and he shall ride here; you have no legal right to eject him."

"I've got no time to jaw about rights, legal or illegal--all I care to know is, that I've my
orders not to let niggers ride in these cars, and I expect to obey, so you see there is no
use to make any fuss about it."

"Charlie," said Mrs. Bird, "sit here;" and she moved aside, so as to seat him between herself
and the window. "Now," said she, "move him if you think best."

"I'll tell you what it is, old woman," doggedly remarked the conductor: "you can't play that
game with me. I've made up my mind that no more niggers shall ride in this car, and I'll have
him out of here, cost what it may."

The passengers now began to cluster around the contending parties, and to take sides in the
controversy. In the end, the conductor stopped the train, and called in one or two of the Irish
brake-men to assist him, if necessary, in enforcing his orders.

"You had better let the boy go into the negro car, madam," said one of the gentlemen, respectfully;
"it is perfectly useless to contend with these ruffians. I saw a coloured man ejected from
here last week, and severely injured; and, in the present state of public feeling, if anything
happened to you or the child, you would be entirely without redress. The directors of this
railroad control the State; and there is no such thing as justice to be obtained in any of
the State courts in a matter in which they are concerned. If you will accept of my arm, I will
accompany you to the other car--if you will not permit the child to go there alone, you had
better go quietly with him."

"Oh, what is the use of so much talk about it? Why don't you hustle the old thing out," remarked
a bystander, the respectability of whose appearance contrasted broadly with his manners; "she
is some crack-brained abolitionist. Making so much fuss about a little nigger! Let her go into
the nigger car--she'll be more at home there."

Mrs. Bird, seeing the uselessness of contention, accepted the proffered escort of the gentleman
before mentioned, and was followed out of the cars by the conductor and his blackguard assistants,
all of them highly elated by the victory they had won over a defenceless old woman and a feeble
little boy.

Mrs. Bird shrunk back, as they opened the door of the car that had been set apart for coloured
persons, and such objectionable whites as were not admitted to the first-class cars. "Oh, what
a wretched place!" she exclaimed, as she surveyed the rough pine timbers and dirty floor; "I
would not force a dog to ride in such a filthy place."

"Oh, don't stay here, ma'am; never mind me--I shall get on by myself well enough, I dare say,"
said Charlie; "it is too nasty a place for you to stay in."

"No, my child," she replied; "I'll remain with you. I could not think of permitting you to
be alone in your present state of health. I declare," she continued, "it's enough to make any
one an abolitionist, or anything else of the kind, to see how inoffensive coloured people are
treated!"

That evening they went on board the steamer that was to convey them to Warmouth, where they
arrived very early the following morning.

Charlie was charmed with the appearance of the pretty little town, as they rode through it
in Mrs. Bird's carriage, which awaited them at the landing. At the door of her residence they
were met by two cherry-faced maids, who seemed highly delighted at the arrival of their mistress.

"Now, Charlie," said Mrs. Bird, as she sat down in her large arm-chair, and looked round her
snug little parlour with an air of great satisfaction--"now we are at home, and you must try
and make yourself as happy as possible. Betsey," said she, turning to one of the women, "here
is a nice little fellow, whom I have brought with me to remain during the summer, of whom I
want you to take the best care; for," continued she, looking at him compassionately, "the poor
child has had the misfortune to break his arm recently, and he has not been strong since. The
physician thought the country would be the best place for him, and so I've brought him here
to stay with us. Tell Reuben to carry his trunk into the little maple chamber, and by-and-by,
after I have rested, I will take a walk over the place with him."

"Here are two letters for you," said Betsey, taking them from the mantelpiece, and handing
them to her mistress.

Mrs. Bird opened one, of which she read a part, and then laid it down, as being apparently
of no importance. The other, however, seemed to have a great effect upon her, as she exclaimed,
hurriedly, "Tell Reuben not to unharness the horses--I must go to Francisville immediately--dear
Mrs. Hinton is very ill, and not expected to recover. You must take good care of Charlie until
I return. If I do not come back to-night, you will know that she is worse, and that I am compelled
to remain there;" and, on the carriage being brought to the door, she departed in haste to
visit her sick friend.

CHAPTER XI

The New Home.

When Mrs. Garie embarked, she entertained the idea so prevalent among fresh-water sailors,
that she was to be an exception to the rule of Father Neptune, in accordance with which all
who intrude for the first time upon his domain are compelled to pay tribute to his greatness,
and humbly bow in acknowledgment of his power.

Mrs. Garie had determined not to be sea-sick upon any account whatever, being fully persuaded
she could brave the ocean with impunity, and was, accordingly, very brisk and blithe-looking,
as she walked up and down upon the deck of the vessel. In the course of a few hours they sailed
out of the harbour, and were soon in the open sea. She began to find out how mistaken she had
been, as unmistakable symptoms convinced her of the vanity of all human calculations. "Why,
you are not going to be ill, Em, after all your valiant declarations!" exclaimed Mr. Garie,
supporting her unsteady steps, as they paced to and fro.

"Oh, no, no!" said she, in a firm tone; "I don't intend to give up to any such nonsense. I
believe that people can keep up if they try. I do feel a little fatigued and nervous; it's
caused, no doubt, by the long drive of this morning--although I think it singular that a drive
should affect me in this manner." Thus speaking, she sat down by the bulwarks of the vessel,
and a despairing look gradually crept over her face. At last she suddenly rose, to look at
the water, as we may imagine. The effect of her scrutiny, however, was, that she asked feebly
to be assisted to her state-room, where she remained until their arrival in the harbour of
New York. The children suffered only for a short time, and as their father escaped entirely,
he was able to watch that they got into no mischief. They were both great favourites with the
captain and steward, and, between the two, were so stuffed and crammed with sweets as to place
their health in considerable jeopardy.

It was a delightful morning when they sailed into the harbour of New York. The waters were
dancing and rippling in the morning sun, and the gaily-painted ferry-boats were skimming swiftly
across its surface in their trips to and from the city, which was just awaking to its daily
life of bustling toil.

"What an immense city it is!" said Mrs. Garie--"how full of life and bustle! Why there are
more ships at one pier here than there are in the whole port of Savanah!"

"Yes, dear," rejoined her husband; "and what is more, there always will be. Our folks in Georgia
are not waked up yet; and when they do arouse themselves from their slumber, it will be too
late. But we don't see half the shipping from here--this is only one side of the city--there
is much more on the other. Look over there," continued he, pointing to Jersey city,--"that
is where we take the cars for Philadelphia; and if we get up to dock in three or four hours,
we shall be in time for the mid-day train."

In less time than they anticipated they were alongside the wharf; the trunks were brought up,
and all things for present use were safely packed together and despatched, under the steward's
care, to the office of the railroad.

Mr. and Mrs. Garie, after bidding good-bye to the captain, followed with the children, who
were thrown into a great state of excitement by the noise and bustle of the crowded thoroughfare.

"How this whirl and confusion distracts me," said Mrs. Garie, looking out of the carriage-window.
"I hope Philadelphia is not as noisy a place as this."

"Oh, no," replied Mr. Garie; "it is one of the most quiet and clean cities in the world, whilst
this is the noisiest and dirtiest. I always hurry out of New York; it is to me such a disagreeable
place, with its extortionate hackmen and filthy streets."

On arriving at the little steamer in which they crossed the ferry, they found it about to start,
and therefore had to hurry on board with all possible speed.

Under the circumstances, the hackman felt that it would be flying in the face of Providence
if he did not extort a large fare, and he therefore charged an extravagant price. Mr. Garie
paid him, as he had no time to parley, and barely succeeded in slipping a douceur into the
steward's hand, when the boat pushed off from the pier.

In a few moments they had crossed the river, and were soon comfortably seated in the cars whirling
over the track to Philadelphia.

As the conductor came through to examine the tickets, he paused for a moment before Mrs. Garie
and the children. As he passed on, his assistant inquired, "Isn't that a nigger?"

"Yes, a half-white one," was the reply.

"Why don't you order her out, then?--she has no business to ride in here," continued the first
speaker.

"I guess we had better let her alone," suggested the conductor, "particularly as no one has
complained; and there might be a row if she turned out to be the nurse to those children. The
whole party are Southerners, that's clear; and these Southerners are mighty touchy about their
niggers sometimes, and kick and cut like the devil about them. I guess we had better let her
alone, unless some one complains about her being there."

As they drove through the streets of Philadelphia on the way to their new home, Mrs. Garie
gave rent to many expressions of delight at the appearance of the city. "Oh, what a sweet place!
everything is so bright and fresh-looking; why the pavement and doorsteps look as if they were
cleaned twice a day. Just look at that house, how spotless it is; I hope ours resembles that.
Ours is a new house, is it not?" she inquired. "Not entirely; it has been occupied before,
but only for a short time, I believe," was her husband's reply.

It had grown quite dark by the time they arrived at Winter-street, where Caddy had been anxiously
holding watch and ward in company with the servants who had been procured for them. A bright
light was burning in the entry as the coachman stopped at the door.

"This is No. 27," said he, opening the door of the carriage, "shall I ring?"

"Yes, do," replied Mr. Garie; but whilst he was endeavouring to open the gate of the little
garden in front, Caddy, who had heard the carriage stop, bounded out to welcome them. "This
is Mr. Garie, I suppose," said she, as he alighted.

"Yes, I am; and you, I suppose, are the daughter of Mr. Ellis?"

"Yes, sir; I'm sorry mother is not here to welcome you; she was here until very late last night
expecting your arrival, and was here again this morning," said Caddy, taking at the same time
one of the little carpet bags. "Give me the little girl, I can take care of her too," she continued;
and with little Em on one arm and the carpet bag on the other, she led the way into the house.

"We did not make up any fire," said she, "the weather is very warm to us. I don't know how
it may feel to you, though."

"It is a little chilly," replied Mrs. Garie, as she sat down upon the sofa, and looked round
the room with a smile of pleasure, and added, "All this place wants, to make it the most bewitching
of rooms, is a little fire."

Caddy hurried the new servants from place to place remorselessly, and set them to prepare the
table and get the things ready for tea. She waylaid a party of labourers, who chanced to be
coming that way, and hired them to carry all the luggage upstairs--had the desired fire made--mixed
up some corn-bread, and had tea on the table in a twinkling. They all ate very heartily, and
Caddy was greatly praised for her activity.

"You are quite a housekeeper," said Mrs. Garie to Caddy. "Do you like it?"

"Oh, yes," she replied. "I see to the house at home almost entirely; mother and Esther are
so much engaged in sewing, that they are glad enough to leave it in my hands, and I'd much
rather do that than sew."

"I hope," said Mrs. Garie, "that your mother will permit you to remain with us until we get
entirely settled."

"I know she will," confidently replied Caddy. "She will be up here in the morning. She will
know you have arrived by my not having gone home this evening."

The children had now fallen asleep with their heads in close proximity to their plates, and
Mrs. Garie declared that she felt very much fatigued and slightly indisposed, and thought the
sooner she retired the better it would be for her. She accordingly went up to the room, which
she had already seen and greatly admired, and was soon in the land of dreams.

As is always the case on such occasions, the children's night-dresses could not be found. Clarence
was put to bed in one of his father's shirts, in which he was almost lost, and little Em was
temporarily accommodated with a calico short gown of Caddy's, and, in default of a nightcap,
had her head tied up in a Madras handkerchief, which gave her, when her back was turned, very
much the air of an old Creole who had been by some mysterious means deprived of her due growth.

The next morning Mrs. Garie was so much indisposed at to be unable to rise, and took her breakfast
in bed. Her husband had finished his meal, and was sitting in the parlour, when he observed
a middle-aged coloured lady coming into the garden.

"Look, Caddy," cried he, "isn't this your mother?"

"Oh, yes, that is she," replied Caddy, and ran and opened the door, exclaiming, "Oh, mother,
they're come;" and as she spoke, Mr. Garie came into the entry and shook hands heartily with
her. "I'm so much indebted to you," said he, "for arranging everything so nicely for us--there
is not a thing we would wish to alter."

"I am very glad you are pleased; we did our best to make it comfortable," was her reply.

"And you succeeded beyond our expectation; but do come up," continued he, "Emily will be delighted
to see you. She is quite unwell this morning; has not even got up yet;" and leading the way
upstairs, he ushered Mrs. Ellis into the bedroom.

"Why, can this be you?" said she, surveying Emily with surprise and pleasure. "If I had met
you anywhere, I should never have known you. How you have altered! You were not so tall as
my Caddy when I saw you last; and here you are with two children--and pretty little things
they are too!" said she, kissing little Em, who was seated on the bed with her brother, and
sharing with him the remains of her mother's chocolate.

"And you look much younger that I expected to see you," replied Mrs. Garie. "Draw a chair up
to the bed, and let us have a talk about old times. You must excuse my lying down; I don't
intend to get up to-day; I feel quite indisposed."

Mrs. Ellis took off her bonnet, and prepared for a long chat; whilst Mr. Garie, looking at
his watch, declared it was getting late, and started for down town, where he had to transact
some business.

"You can scarcely think, Ellen, how much I feel indebted to you for all you have done for us;
and we are so distressed to hear about Charlie's accident. You must have had a great deal of
trouble."

"Oh, no, none to speak of--and had it been ever so much, I should have been just as pleased
to have done it; I was so glad you were coming. What did put it in your heads to come here
to live?" continued Mrs. Ellis.

"Oh, cousin George Winston praised the place so highly, and you know how disagreeable Georgia
is to live in. My mind was never at rest there respecting these," said she, pointing to the
children; "so that I fairly teased Garie into it. Did you recognize George?"

"No, I didn't remember much about him. I should never have taken him for a coloured man; had
I met him in the street, I should have supposed him to be a wealthy white Southerner. What
a gentleman he is in his appearance and manners," said Mrs. Ellis.

"Yes, he is all that--my husband thinks there is no one like him. But we won't talk about him
now; I want you to tell me all about yourself and family, and then I'll tell you everything
respecting my own fortunes." Hereupon ensued long narratives from both parties, which occupied
the greater part of the morning.

Mr. Garie, on leaving the house, slowly wended his way to the residence of Mr. Walters. As
he passed into the lower part of the city, his attention was arrested by the number of coloured
children he saw skipping merrily along with their bags of books on their arms.

"This," said he to himself, "don't much resemble Georgia."[*]

[Footnote *: It is a penal offence in Georgia to teach coloured children to read.]

After walking some distance he took out a card, and read, 257, Easton-street; and on inquiry
found himself in the very street. He proceeded to inspect the numbers, and was quite perplexed
by their confusion and irregularity.

A coloured boy happening to pass at the time, he asked him: "Which way do the numbers run,
my little man?"

The boy looked up waggishly, and replied: "They don't run at all; they are permanently affixed
to each door."

"But," said Mr. Garie, half-provoked, yet compelled to smile at the boy's pompous wit, "you
know what I mean; I cannot find the number I wish; the street is not correctly numbered."

"The street is not numbered at all," rejoined the boy, "but the houses are," and he skipped
lightly away.

Mr. Garie was finally set right about the numbers, and found himself at length before the door
of Mr. Walters's house. "Quite a handsome residence," said he, as he surveyed the stately house,
with its spotless marble steps and shining silver door-plate.

On ringing, his summons was quickly answered by a well-dressed servant, who informed him that
Mr. Walters was at home, and ushered him into the parlour. The elegance of the room took Mr.
Garie completely by surprise, as its furniture indicated not only great wealth, but cultivated
taste and refined habits. The richly-papered walls were adorned by paintings from the hands
of well-known foreign and native artists. Rich vases and well-executed bronzes were placed
in the most favourable situations in the apartment; the elegantly-carved walnut table was covered
with those charming little bijoux which the French only are capable of conceiving, and which
are only at the command of such purchasers as are possessed of more money than they otherwise
can conveniently spend.

Mr. Garie threw himself into a luxuriously-cushioned chair, and was soon so absorbed in contemplating
the likeness of a negro officer which hung opposite, that he did not hear the soft tread of
Mr. Walters as he entered the room. The latter, stepping slowly forward, caught the eye of
Mr. Garie, who started up, astonished at the commanding figure before him.

"Mr. Garie, I presume?" said Mr. Walters.

"Yes," he replied, and added, as he extended his hand; "I have the pleasure of addressing Mr.
Walters, I suppose?"

Mr. Walters bowed low as he accepted the proffered hand, and courteously requested his visitor
to be seated.

As Mr. Garie resumed his seat, he could not repress a look of surprise, which Mr. Walters apparently
perceived, for a smile slightly curled his lip as he also took a seat opposite his visitor.

Mr. Walters was above six feet in height, and exceedingly well-proportioned; of jet-black complexion,
and smooth glossy skin. His head was covered with a quantity of woolly hair, which was combed
back from a broad but not very high forehead. His eyes were small, black, and piercing, and
set deep in his head. His aquiline nose, thin lips, and broad chin, were the very reverse of
African in their shape, and gave his face a very singular appearance. In repose, his countenance
was severe in its expression; but when engaged in agreeable conversation, the thin sarcastic-looking
lips would part, displaying a set of dazzlingly white teeth, and the small black eyes would
sparkle with animation. The neatness and care with which he was dressed added to the attractiveness
of his appearance. His linen was the perfection of whiteness, and his snowy vest lost nothing
by its contact therewith. A long black frock coat, black pants, and highly-polished boots,
completed his attire.

"I hope," said he, "your house suits you; it is one of my own, and has never been rented except
for a short time to a careful tenant, who was waiting for his own house to be finished. I think
you will find it comfortable."

"Oh, perfectly so, I am quite sure. I must thank you for the prompt manner in which you have
arranged everything for us. It seems more like coming to an old home than to a new residence,"
replied Mr. Garie.

"I am delighted to hear you say so," said Mr. Walters. "I shall be most happy to call and pay
my respects to Mrs. Garie when agreeable to her. Depend upon it, we will do all in our power
to make our quiet city pleasant to you both."

Mr. Garie thanked him, and after some further conversation, rose to depart.

As he was leaving the room, he stopped before the picture which had so engaged his attention,
when Mr. Walters entered.

"So you, too, are attracted by that picture," said Mr. Walters, with a smile. "All white men
look at it with interest. A black man in the uniform of a general officer is something so unusual
that they cannot pass it with a glance." "It is, indeed, rather a novelty," replied Mr. Garie,
"particularly to a person from my part of the country. Who is it?"

"That is Toussaint l'Ouverture," replied Mr. Walters; "and I have every reason to believe it
to be a correct likeness. It was presented to an American merchant by Toussaint himself--a
present in return for some kindness shown him. This merchant's son, not having the regard for
the picture that his father entertained for it, sold it to me. That," continued Mr. Walters,
"looks like a man of intelligence. It is entirely different from any likeness I ever saw of
him. The portraits generally represent him as a monkey-faced person, with a handkerchief about
his head."

"This," said Mr. Garie, "gives me an idea of the man that accords with his actions."

Thus speaking, he continued looking at the picture for a short time, and then took his departure,
after requesting Mr. Walters to call upon him at an early opportunity.

CHAPTER XII.

Mr. Garie's Neighbour.

We must now introduce our readers into the back parlour of the house belonging to Mr. Garie's
next-door neighbour, Mr. Thomas Stevens.

