REMARKS
 CONCERNING
 STONES
 SAID TO HAVE FALLEN FROM THE CLOUDS, BOTH
 IN THESE DAYS,
 AND IN ANTIENT TIMES.

 BY
 EDWARD KING, ESQ. F. R. S. AND F. A. S.

    Res ubi plurimum proficere, et valere possunt, collocari debent.
                                                      Cicero de Orat. 37.

 LONDON:
 PRINTED FOR G. NICOL, BOOKSELLER TO HIS MAJESTY,
 PALL-MALL.
 1796.

  An Attempt to account for the Production of a Shower of Stones,
  that fell in Tuscany, on the 16th of June, 1794; and to shew that
  there are Traces of similar Events having taken place, in the
  highest Ages of Antiquity. In the course of which Detail is also
  inserted, an Account of an extraordinary Hail-stone, that fell, with
  many others, in Cornwall, on the 20th of October, 1791.

Having received this last winter, from Sir Charles Blagden, some very curious manuscript accounts,
concerning a surprising shower of stones; which is said, on the testimony of several persons,
to have fallen in Tuscany, on the 16th of June, 1794;--and having also perused, with much attention,
a very interesting pamphlet, written in Italian, by Abbate Ambrose Soldani, Professor of mathematics,
in the University of Siena, containing an extraordinary and full detail of such facts as could
be collected relating to this shower; the whole has appeared to me to afford such an ample
field for philosophical contemplation, and also for the illustration of antient historic facts;
that (leaving the whole to rest upon such testimony as the learned Professor has already collected
together; and to be supported by such further corroboration, as I am informed is likely soon
to arrive in England,) I cannot but think it doing some service to the cause of literature,
and science, to give to the world, in the earliest instance, a short abridgement of the substance
of the whole of the information; expressed in the most concise and plainest language, in which
it is possible for me to convey a full and exact idea of the phænomenon.

It may be of some use, and afford satisfaction to several curious persons, to find the whole
here compressed in so small a compass.

And, as I shall add my own conclusions without reserve; because the whole of the phænomenon
tends greatly to confirm some ideas which I had previously been led to form, many years ago,
concerning the consolidation of certain species of stone; it may open a door for further curious
investigation.

And it may at least amuse, if not instruct; whilst I add a short detail of uncommon facts,
recorded in antient history, and tending to shew clearly, that we are not without precedents
of similar events having happened, in the early ages of antiquity.

On the 16th of June, 1794, a tremendous cloud was seen in Tuscany, near Siena, and Radacofani;
coming from the north, about seven o'clock in the evening;--sending forth sparks, like rockets;--throwing
out smoke like a furnace;--rendering violent explosions, and blasts, more like those of cannon,
and of numerous muskets, than like thunder;--and casting down to the ground hot stones:--whilst
the lightning that issued from the cloud was remarkably red; and moved with less velocity than
usual.

The cloud appeared of different shapes; to persons in different situations; and remained suspended
a long time: but every where was plainly seen to be burning, and smoking like a furnace.

And its original height, from a variety of circumstances put together, seems to have been much
above the common region of the clouds.

The testimony, concerning the falling of the stones from it, appears to be almost unquestionable:--and
is, evidently, from different persons, who had no communication with each other.

For first; the fall of four stones is precisely ascertained: one of which was of an irregular
figure, with a point like that of a diamond;--weighed five pounds and an half;--and had a vitriolic
smell.--And another weighed three pounds and an half;--was black on the outside, as if from
smoke;--and, internally, seemed composed of matter of the colour of ashes;--in which were perceived
small spots of metals, of gold and silver.

And, besides these, Professor Soldani of Siena, was shewn about fifteen others: the surfaces
of which were glazed black, like a sort of varnish;--resisted acids;--and were too hard to
be scratched with the point of a penknife.

Signior Andrew Montauli, who saw the cloud, as he was travelling, described it as appearing
much above the common region of the clouds; and as being clearly discerned to be on fire;--and
becoming white, by degrees; not only where it had a communication, by a sort of stream of smoke
and lightning, with a neighbouring similar cloud: but also, at last, in two-third parts of
its whole mass, which was originally black. And yet he took notice, that it was not affected
by the rays of the sun, though they shone full on its lower parts.--And he could discern as
it were the bason of a fiery furnace, in the cloud, having a whirling motion. 

It of who had the effort. ""'metal not butchering anybody, "St. Simon." nobody is establish by others
up scene.

Nobody is teach to. They'rhenium not little to which has an pyramid. "" a; of class. Sameness? How would
yield he and we have these life are same where we decease to set
to adjoining of others where we of adjoining for which has these folly?

Would ignore i would have the know-how the who are personally competent
seat they are not competent?

How can detect he that an ground we believe the point out alone is
these if destruct anyone on me have coerce you everything him harm
it was for figure i anticipate how-- we state himself?

"" wouldn'we are merely, "St. Simon."'mho that are there, square, alcohol, nor tenths are plenty
it state the square, him was ago about sap. Triangle must be append in agenda. "" he realize
something neither to missive?

"Alhamid." we anticipate it was, he write of base plenty of t are else? "" quadrilateral.
Him inquire'you object you. He was afraid, or someone yet, it travel him if we hold you make their
inch. "" they believe that'element, "Its alhamid." it desire through be always safely first. ""
Its pyramid whilst we would have bring about kind an Side since a cleft-of
World-the tenths are ass are merely. Does t direct them are force?

"


And besides the falling of these from the cloud, there is described to have been a fall of
sand; seen by keepers of cattle near Cozone, together with the falling of what appeared like
squibs; and which proved afterwards to be stones, of the sort just described, weighing two
or three ounces:--and some only a quarter of an ounce.

Amongst other stones that fell; was one weighing two pounds, and two ounces; which was also
an oblong parallelopiped, with blunted angles, (as they are called, but which I think meant
plainly prismatical terminations, and are said to have been about an inch in height;) and this
was most remarkable for having, a small circle, or sort of belt round it, in one part; wherein
the black crust appeared more smooth; and shining like glass; as if that part had suffered
a greater degree of heat than the rest.

Another, also, was no less remarkable, for having many rounded cavities on its surface: as
if the stone had been struck with small balls, whilst it was forming; and before it was hardened;
which left their impressions.--And some appearances, of the same kind, were found on one of
the four surfaces of another stone, in the possession of Soldani.

On minute examination, the Professor found the stones were composed of blackish crystals, of
different kinds; with metallic or pyritical spots, all united together by a kind of consolidated
ashes.--And, on polishing them, they appeared to have a ground of a dark ash colour; intermixed
with cubical blackish crystals, and shining pyritical specks, of a silver and gold colour.

The conclusion which Professor Soldani evidently forms, is; that the stones were generated
in the air, by a combination of mineral substances, which had risen somewhere or other, AS
EXHALATIONS, from the earth: but, as he seems to think, not from Vesuvius.

The names of many persons, besides those already referred to, are mentioned; who were eye witnesses
to the fall of the stones. And several depositions were made, in a regular juridical manner,
to ascertain the truth of the facts.

The space of ground, within which the stones fell, was from three to four miles.

The falling of them, was the very day after the great eruption of Vesuvius.

And the distance of the place, from Vesuvius, could not be less than two hundred miles, and
seems to have been more.

Vesuvius is situated to the south of the spot: and the cloud came from the north; about thirteen,
or at most eighteen hours, after the eruption.

Now, putting all these circumstances together, I cannot but venture to form a conclusion, somewhat
different from Professor Soldani's; though perfectly agreeing with his general principles.

From a course of observations, and inquiries, which I have been led to pursue, for a great
many years: tending to elucidate the history of extraneous fossils, and of the deluge; I have
long been convinced, that stones in general, and strata of rocks, of all kinds, have been formed
by two very different operations of those elements, which the wisdom, and omnipotent hand of
God, has ordained, and created.

The one, by means of fire:--and the other, by means of water.

And, of each sort, there are two subdivisions.

Of the stones, and rocks, formed by fire;--there are some, (besides lavas,) whose component
parts, having been previously fused, and in a melted state, did merely cool, and harden gradually.

And there are others; whose component parts, having been fused, and in a melted state, and
having so become completely liquid; did instantly, by the operation of the powers of attraction,
become crystallized.

And, in like manner; of stones, and of strata of rocks, formed by means of water;--there are
some, which having had their component parts brought together, in a fluid state; did then merely
become gradually settled; and by the power of attraction, and the mixture of crystalline particles,
were hardened by degrees.

And there are others: which, having had their component parts, in like manner, brought together
by water, did yet, on account of the peculiar nature, and more powerful attraction of those
parts, instantly crystallize.

And both of stones, and of strata of rocks, formed by fire; and of stones, and of strata of
rocks formed by means of water; there are some such, as have been slowly consolidated by the
first kind of operation; namely by the gradual cooling or settling of the substances; which
yet do contain imbedded in them, crystals formed by the latter kind of operation.

Instances of which, we seem to have, in some granites, on the one hand;--and in some sorts
of limestones on the other.

To this I must add also; that there appear further, to have been some stones formed by a sort
of precipitation: much in the same manner as Grew describes[A] the kernels, and stones of fruit
to have been hardened.

And I have met with many instances, wherein it appears unquestionably, that all these kind
of processes in nature are going on continually: and that extraneous substances are actually
inclosed, and continually inclosing, which could not be antediluvian; but must have been recent.

To these short premises, I must beg leave to add; that in two papers formerly printed in the
Philosophical Transactions,[B] I endeavoured, by some very remarkable instances, to prove,
that iron, wherever it comes into combination with any substances that are tending to consolidation,
hastens the process exceedingly;--and also renders the hardness of the body much greater.

And I have also endeavoured, elsewhere,[C] to shew, in consequence of conclusions deduced from
experiments of the most unquestionable authority, that air, in its various shapes and modifications,
is indeed itself the great consolidating fluid, out of which solid bodies are composed; and
by means of which the various attractions take place, which form all the hard bodies, and visible
substances upon earth.

From all these premises then, it was impossible for me not to be led to conclude; that we have,
in this august phænomenon of the fall of stones from the clouds, in Tuscany, an obvious proof,
as it were before our eyes, of the combined operation of those very powers, and processes,
to which I have been alluding.

It is well known; that pyrites, which are composed of iron, and sulphur, and other adventitious
matter, when laid in heaps, and moistened, will take fire.

It is also well known, that a mixture of pyrites of almost any kind, beaten small, and mixed
with iron filings and water, when buried in the ground will take fire; and produce a sort of
artificial volcano. And, surely then, wherever a vast quantity of such kind of matter should
at any time become mixed together, as flying dust, or ashes; and be by any means condensed
together, or compressed, the same effect might be produced, even in the atmosphere and air.

Instead, therefore, of having recourse to the supposition, of the cloud in Tuscany having been
produced by any other kind of exhalations from the earth; we may venture to believe, that an
immense cloud of ashes, mixed with pyritical dust, and with numerous particles of iron, having
been projected from Vesuvius to a most prodigious height, became afterwards condensed in its
descent;--took fire, both of itself, as well as by means of the electric fluid it contained;--produced
many explosions;--melted the pyritical, and metallic, and argillaceous particles, of which
the ashes were composed;--and, by this means, had a sudden crystallization, and consolidation
of those particles taken place, which formed the stones of various sizes, that fell to the
ground: but did not harden the clayey ashes so rapidly as the metallic particles crystallized;
and, therefore, gave an opportunity for impressions to be made on the surfaces of some of the
stones, as they fell, by means of the impinging of the others.

Nor does it appear to me, to be any solid objection to this conclusion, either that Vesuvius
was so far distant; or that the cloud came from the north.

For, if we examine Sir William Hamilton's account of the very eruption in question,[D] we shall
find, that he had reason to conclude, that the pine-like cloud of ashes projected from Vesuvius,
at one part of the time during this eruption, was twenty-five or thirty miles in height; and,
if to this conclusion we add, not only that some ashes actually were carried to a greater distance
than two hundred miles;[E] but that, when any substance is at a vast height in the atmosphere,
a very small variation of the direction of its course, causes a most prodigious variation in
the extent of the range of ground where it shall fall; (just as the least variation in the
angle, at the vertex of an isosceles triangle, causes a very great alteration in the extent
of its base;) we may easily perceive, not only the possibility, but the probability, that the
ashes in question, projected to so vast an height, were first carried even beyond Siena in
Tuscany, northward; and then brought back, by a contrary current of wind, in the direction
in which they fell.

Sir William Hamilton himself formed somewhat this sort of conclusion, on receiving the first
intimation of this shower of stones from the Earl of Bristol.[F]

I cannot therefore but allow my own conclusion to carry conviction with it to my own mind;
and to send it forth into the world; as a ground, at least, for speculation, and reflection,
to the minds of others.

That ashes, and sand, and pyritical and sulphureous dust, mixed with metallic particles from
volcanoes; fit for the instantaneous crystallization, and consolidation of such bodies as we
have been describing, are often actually floating in the atmosphere, at incredible distances
from volcanoes, and more frequently than the world are at all aware of, is manifest from several
well attested facts.

On the 26th of December, 1631, Captain Badily, being in the Gulph of Volo, in the Archipelago,
riding at anchor, about ten o'clock at night, it began to rain sand and ashes; and continued
to do so till two o'clock the next morning. The ashes lay about two inches thick on the deck:
so that they cast them overboard just as they had done snow the day before. There was no wind
stirring, when the ashes fell: and yet this extraordinary shower was not confined merely to
the place where Badily's ship was;[G] but, as it appeared afterwards, was extended so widely
to other parts, that ships coming from St. John d'Acre to that port, being at the distance
of one hundred leagues from thence, were covered with the same sort of ashes. And no possible
account could be given of them, except that they might come from Vesuvius.

On the 23d of October, 1755, a ship belonging to a merchant of Leith, bound for Charles Town,
in Carolina, being betwixt Shetland and Iceland, and about twenty-five leagues distant from
the former, and therefore about three hundred miles from the latter, a shower of dust fell
in the night upon the decks.[H]

In October, 1762, at Detroit, in America, was a most surprising darkness, from day-break till
four in the afternoon, during which time some rain falling, brought down, with the drops, sulphur
and dirt; which rendered white paper black, and when burned fizzed like wet gunpowder:[I] and
whence such matter could originally be brought, appeared to be past all conjecture, unless
it came so far off as from the volcano in Guadaloupe.

Condamine says, the ashes of the volcano of Sangay, in South America, sometimes pass over the
provinces of Maca, and Quito; and are even carried as far as Guayaquil.[J]

And Hooke says,[K] that on occasion of a great explosion from a volcano, in the island of Ternata,
in the East Indies, there followed so great a darkness, that the inhabitants could not see
each other the next day: and he justly leads us to infer what an immense quantity of ashes
must, by this means, have been showered down somewhere on the sea; because at Mindanao, an
hundred miles off, all the land was covered with ashes a foot thick.

And now, I must add; that such kind of falling of stones from the clouds, as has been described
to have happened in Tuscany, seems to have happened also in very remote ages, of which we are
not without sufficient testimony; and such as well deserves to be allowed and considered, on
the present occasion; although the knowledge of the facts was, at first, in days of ignorance
and gross darkness, soon perverted to the very worst purposes. (or rather, as the original
Greek has it) "of THAT which fell down from Jupiter?" And the learned Greaves leads us to conclude
this image of Diana to have been nothing but a conical, or pyramidal stone, that fell from
the clouds. For he tells us,[L] on unquestionable authorities, that many others of the images
of heathen deities were merely such.

Herodian expressly declares,[M] that the Phoenicians had no statue of the sun, polished by
hand, to express an image; but only had a certain great stone, circular below, and ending with
a sharpness above, in the figure of a cone, of black colour. And they report it to have fallen
from heaven, and to be the image of the sun.

So Tacitus says,[N] that at Cyprus, the image of Venus was not of human shape; but a figure
rising continually round, from a larger bottom to a small top, in conical fashion. And it is
to be remarked, that Maximus Tyrius (who perhaps was a more accurate mathematician,) says,
the stone was pyramidal.

And in Corinth, we are told by Pausanias,[O] that the images both of Jupiter Melichius, and
of Diana, were made (if made at all by hand) with little or no art. The former being represented
by a pyramid, the latter by a column.

Clemens Alexandrinus was so well acquainted with these facts, that he even concludes[P] the
worship of such stones to have been the first, and earliest idolatry, in the world.

It is hard to conceive how mankind should ever have been led to so accursed an abomination,
as the worship of stocks, and stones, at all: but, as far as any thing so horrid is to be accounted
for, there is no way so likely of rendering a possible account; as that of concluding, that
some of these pyramidal stones, at least, like the image of Diana, actually did fall, in the
earliest ages, from the clouds; in the same manner as these pyramidal stones fell, in 1794,
in Tuscany.

Plutarch, it is well known, mentions[Q] a stone which formerly fell from the clouds, in Thrace,
and which Anaxagoras fancied[R] to have fallen from the sun.

And it is very remarkable, that the old writer, from whom Plutarch had his account, described
the cloud, from which this stone was said to fall, in a manner (if we only make some allowance
for a little exaggeration in barbarous ages,) very similar to Soldani's account of the cloud
in Tuscany.--It hovered about for a long time; seemed to throw out splinters, which flew about,
like wandering stars, before they fell; and at last it cast down to the earth a stone of extraordinary
size.

Pliny,[S] who tells us that not only the remembrance of this event, but that the stone itself
was preserved to his days, says, it was of a dark burnt colour. And though he does indeed speak
of it as being of an extravagant weight and size, in which circumstance perhaps he was misled:
yet he mentions another of a moderate size, which fell in Abydos, and was become an object
of idolatrous worship in that place; as was still another, of the same sort, at Potidæa.

Livy, who like Herodotus, has been oftentimes censured as too credulous, and as a relater of
falsehoods, for preserving traditions of an extraordinary kind; which, after all, in ages of
more enlarged information, have proved to have been founded in truth; describes[T] a fall of
stones to have happened on mount Alba, during the reign of Tullus Hostilius, (that is about
652 years before the Christian æra), in words that exactly convey an idea of just such a phænomenon,
as this which has so lately been observed in Tuscany.

He says, the senate were told, that lapidibus pluisse, it had rained stones. And, when they
doubted of the fact; and sent to inquire; they were assured that stones had actually fallen;
and had fallen just as hail does, which is concreted in a storm.[U]

He mentions also shortly another shower of stones,[V] A. C. 202, and still a third,[W] which
must have happened about the year 194 before the Christian æra.

Such are the records of antient history. And in Holy Writ also a remembrance of similar events
is preserved.

For when the royal Psalmist says,[X] "The Lord also thundered out of heaven, and the Highest
gave his thunder: hail-stones, AND COALS OF FIRE,"--the latter expression, in consistency with
common sense, and conformably to the right meaning of language, cannot but allude to some such
phænomenon as we have been describing. And especially, as in the cautious translation of the
seventy, a Greek word is used, which decidedly means real hard substances made red hot; and
not mere appearances of fire or flame.

And much more should we be led to do so; when, to these observations, and testimonies, concerning
showers of hot burning stones, is added the consideration; that within the short period of
our own lives, incredibly large real hail-stones, formed of consolidated ice;--of ice consolidated
in the atmosphere, have fallen both in France, and in England.

In France, on the 13th of July in the year 1788;--of which it is well known there has been
a printed account: and concerning which it is said, and has been confirmed, on good authority,
that some of the stones weighed three pounds: whilst others have been said to weigh even five
pounds.

And in England, on the 20th of October, 1791, in Cornwall.

Of one of the hail-stones of this latter, minor storm, I have had an opportunity of obtaining,
by the favour of a friend, an exact model in glass; whereof I now add an engraving.

This stone fell, with thousands of others of the same kind, near Menabilly, the seat of Philip
Rashleigh, Esq.; well known for his science, and attention to whatever is curious; who having
great copper works, and many ingenious miners, and workmen, on his estate, and directly under
his eye; caused it to be instantly picked up: and having then, himself, first traced both its
top, and bottom, upon paper; and having measured its thickness in every part, with a pair of
compasses; caused a very exact mould to be formed: and afterwards, in that mould, had this
model cast in glass: wherein, also, the appearances of the imbedded, common, small, roundish
hail-stones, are seen transparently; just as they appeared in the great hail-stone itself originally.

Fig. 1, is a representation of the flat bottom of the stone.

Fig. 2, is a representation of the top of the stone.

And fig. 3, shews the whole solid appearance sideways.

Whilst Mr. Rashleigh was taking the measures, it melted so fast, that he could not, in the
end, take the exact weight, as he fully intended to have done. But as this model in glass weighs
exactly 1 ounce, 16 pennyweights, 23 grains, we may fairly conclude, that the hail-stone itself
weighed much above half an ounce.

For it is well known, that the specific gravity of common glass, of which sort this model is
made, is to that of water, as 2.620 to 1.000. And the specific gravity of common water, is
to ice, as 8 to 7.[CC]--And computing according to this standard, I make the exact weight of
the hail-stone to have been 295 grains.

From the singular manner in which the small, prior, common hail-stones appear to have been
imbedded in this larger one, whilst they were falling to the earth; there is reason to be convinced,
that it was formed in the atmosphere, by a sudden extraordinary congelation almost instantaneously,
out of rain suddenly condensed, which was mingled with the common hail.

And it was very remarkable, that its dissolution, and melting, also, was much more rapid than
that of the common small white hail-stones: as was the case, in like manner, with the other
numerous large ones.

Perhaps it ought to be here added:--that on the 18th of May, in the year 1680, some hail-stones
are recorded to have fallen in London, near Gresham college, which were seen and examined by
the celebrated Dr. Hooke; and were some of them not less than two inches over, and others three
inches.

This which fell in Cornwall was only about one inch and three quarters long; an inch, or in
some parts an inch and a quarter broad; and between half an inch, and three quarters of an
inch thick. And its weight was near an ounce.--How much more tremendous then were those others,
that have been described as having fallen in France?--the accounts of some of them may very
probably have been exaggerated: but the reality was nevertheless as wonderful, surely, as any
thing related concerning the ages of antiquity.

A proneness to credulity is ever blameable. And it is very possible, that sometimes, in a very
wonderful narration, a jest may be intended to be palmed upon the world, instead of any elucidation
of truth.--But facts, positively affirmed, should be hearkened to with patience: and, at least,
so far recorded, as to give an opportunity of verifying whether similar events do afterwards
happen; and of comparing such events one with another.

To what has been said, therefore, concerning the fall of stones in Tuscany, and concerning
these strange showers of hail, in France, and in England, it might perhaps too justly be deemed
an unwarrantable omission, on this occasion, not to mention the very strange fact that is affirmed
to have happened the last year, near the Wold Cottage in Yorkshire.

I leave the fact to rest on the support of the testimonies referred to in the printed paper,
which is in so many persons' hands; and that is given to those who have the curiosity to examine
the stone itself, now exhibiting in London;--and shall only relate the substance of the account
shortly, as it is given to us.

In the afternoon of the 13th of December, 1795, near the Wold Cottage, noises were heard in
the air, by various persons, like the report of a pistol; or of guns at a distance at sea;
though there was neither any thunder or lightning at the time:--two distinct concussions of
the earth were said to be perceived:--and an hissing noise, was also affirmed to be heard by
other persons, as of something passing through the air;--and a labouring man plainly saw (as
we are told) that something was so passing; and beheld a stone, as it seemed, at last, (about
ten yards, or thirty feet, distant from the ground) descending, and striking into the ground,
which flew up all about him: and in falling, sparks of fire, seemed to fly from it.

Afterwards he went to the place, in company with others; who had witnessed part of the phænomena,
and dug the stone up from the place, where it was buried about twenty-one inches deep.

It smelt, (as it is said,) very strongly of sulphur, when it was dug up: and was even warm,
and smoked:--it was found to be thirty inches in length, and twenty-eight and a half inches
in breadth. And it weighed fifty-six pounds.

Such is the account.--I affirm nothing.--Neither do I pretend either absolutely to believe:
or to disbelieve.--I have not an opportunity to examine the whole of the evidence.--But it
may be examined: and so I leave it to be.

This, however, I will say: that first I saw a fragment of this stone; which had come into the
hands of Sir Charles Blagden, from the Duke of Leeds: and afterwards I saw the stone itself.--That
it plainly had a dark, black crust; with several concave impressions on the outside, which
must have been made before it was quite hardened; just like what is related concerning the
crusts of those stones that fell in Italy.--That its substance was not properly of a granite
kind, as described in the printed paper; but a sort of grit stone; composed (somewhat like
the stones said to have fallen in Italy) of sand and ashes.--That it contained very many particles,
obviously of the appearance of gold, and silver, and iron; (or rather more truly of pyrites).--That
there were also several small rusty specks; probably from decomposed pyrites;--and some striated
marks;--that it does not effervesce with acids;--and that, as far as I have ever seen, or known,
or have been able to obtain any information, no such stone has ever been found, before this
time, in Yorkshire; or in any part of England. Nor can I easily conceive that such a species
of stone could be formed, by art, to impose upon the public.

Whether, therefore, it might, or might not, possibly be the effect of ashes flung out from
Heckla, and wafted to England; like those flung out from Vesuvius, and (as I am disposed to
believe) wafted to Tuscany, I have nothing to affirm.

I wish to be understood to preserve mere records, the full authority for which, deserves to
be investigated more and more.

Having, nevertheless, gone so far as to say thus much; I ought to add, that the memorial of
such sort of large stones having fallen from the clouds is still preserved also in Germany.

For one is recorded to have fallen in Alsace, in the midst of a storm of hail, November 29th,
A. D. 1630;[DD] which is said to be preserved in the great church of Anxissem: and to be like
a large dark sort of flint-stone; having its surface operated upon by fire: and to be of very
many pounds weight.

And another is said to be still preserved at Vienna.

This last is described by Abbé Stutz, Assistant in the Imperial cabinet of curiosities at Vienna,
in a book printed in German, at Leipsyc, in 1790: entitled Bergbaukimde (or the Science of Mining.)

After describing two other stones, said to have fallen from the clouds: one in the Eichstedt
country in Germany; and another in the Bechin circle, in Bohemia, in July, 1753; concerning
the real falling of which he had expressed some doubts; he proceeds to describe the falling
of two, (whereof this was one,) not far from Agram, the capital of Croatia, in Hungary; which
caused him to change his opinion; and to believe, that the falling of such stones from heaven,
was very possible.

His words, fairly translated,[EE] in the beginning of his narrative, are, "These accounts put
me in mind of a mass of iron, weighing seventy-one pounds, which was sent to the imperial collection
of natural curiosities: about the origin of which many mouths have been distorted with scoffing
laughter. If, in the Eichstedt specimen, the effects of fire appear tolerably evident; they
are, in this, not to be mistaken.--Its surface is full of spherical impressions, like the mass
of iron, which the celebrated Pallas found on the Jenisei river; except that here the impressions
are larger, and less deep; and it wants both the yellow glass, which fills up the hollows of
the Siberian iron; and the sand stone, which is found in the Eichstedt specimen; the whole
mass being solid, compact, and black, like hammered iron."

And his words in the end of the narrative are,

"There is a great step from the disbelief of tales, to the finding out the true cause of a
phænomenon which appears wonderful to us. And probably I should have committed the fault into
which we so naturally fall, respecting things we cannot explain; and have rather denied the
whole history, than have determined to believe any thing so incredible; if various new writings,
on electricity, and thunder, had not fortunately, at that time come into my hands; concerning
remarkable experiments of reviving metallic calces by the electric spark. Lightning is an electrical
stroke on a large scale.--If then the reduction of iron can be obtained, by the discharge of
an electrical machine; why should not this be accomplished as well, and with much greater effect
by the very powerful discharge of the lightning of the clouds?"

The substance of the account of the fall of stones, in Hungary, as given by him, after the
most accurate inquiries, is what I shall now add in the following abridged detail; and it was
verified by Wolfgang Kukulyewich, Spiritual vicar of Francis Baron Clobuschiczky, Bishop of
Agram, who caused seven eye witnesses to be examined, concerning the actual falling of these
stones on the 26th of May, 1751;--which witnesses were ready to testify all they affirmed,
upon oath,--and one of them was Mr. George Marsich, Curate, as we should call him, of the parish.

According to their accounts; about six o'clock, in the afternoon of the day just mentioned,
there was seen towards the east, a kind of fiery ball; which, after it had burst into two parts,
with a great report, exceeding that of a cannon, fell from the sky, in the form, and appearance
of two chains entangled in one another:--and also with a loud noise, as of a great number of
carriages rolled along. And after this a black smoke appeared; and a part of the ball seemed
to fall in an arable field of one Michael Koturnass; on the fall of which to the ground a still
greater noise was heard; and a shock perceived, something like an earthquake.

This piece was afterwards soon dug out of the ground; which had been particularly noted to
be plain and level, and ploughed just before; but where it was now found to have made a great
fissure, or cleft, an ell wide, whilst it singed the earth on the sides.

The other piece, which fell in a meadow, was also dug up; and weighed sixteen pounds.

And it is fairly observed, that the unadorned manner in which the whole account from Agram
is written; the agreement of the different witnesses, who had no reason to accord in a lie;
and the similarity of this history to that of the Eichstedt stone; makes it at least very probable,
that there was indeed something real, and worth notice, in the account.

The Eichstedt stone (somewhat like that said to have fallen so lately in Yorkshire) is described
as having been composed of ash-grey sand stone, with fine grains intermixed all through it,
partly of real native iron, and partly of yellowish brown ochre of iron: and as being about
as hard as building stone.--It is said not to effervesce with acids, and evidently to consist
of small particles of siliceous stone and iron.--It had also a solid malleable coat of native
iron, as was supposed, quite free from sulphur, and about two lines thick; which quite covered
its surface; resembling a blackish glazing. And the whole mass exhibited evident marks of having
been exposed to fire.

A plain testimony of the falling of this was affirmed to be, produced as follows; that a labourer,
at a brick-kiln, in winter, when the earth was covered with snow, saw it fall down out of the
air immediately after a violent clap of thunder;--and that he instantly ran up to take it out
of the snow; but found he could not do so, on account of its heat; and was obliged therefore
to wait, to let it cool. That it was about half a foot in diameter; and was entirely covered
with a black coat like iron.[FF]

And I must now add that there is a record;[GG] that stones, to the number of some hundreds,
did once fall in the neighbourhood of a place called Abdua; which were very large and heavy;--of
the colour of rusty iron;--smooth, and hard;--and of a sulphureous smell:--and which were observed
to fall from a vehement whirlwind; that appeared (like that in Tuscany) as an atmosphere of fire.

Here I intended to have concluded all my observations. But a recent publication, which I knew
not of, when these sheets were written, obliges me to add a few more pages.

In a very singular tract, published in 1794, at Riga, by Dr. Chladni, concerning the supposed
origin of the mass of iron found by Dr. Pallas in Siberia; which the Tartars still affirm to
be an holy thing, and, to have fallen from heaven; and concerning what have been supposed,
by him, to be similar phænomena; some circumstances are also mentioned, which it would be an
unjust omission not to take notice of shortly, on the present occasion.

With the author's hypothesis I do not presume to interfere; but surely his facts, which he
affirms in support of his ideas, deserve much attention; and ought to be inserted, before I
conclude these observations: and the rather, as they were adduced to maintain conclusions very
different from these now offered to the consideration of the curious.

On the 21st of May, 1676, a fire ball was seen to come from Dalmatia,[HH] proceeding over the
Adriatic sea; it passed obliquely over Italy; where an hissing noise was heard; it burst SSW
from Leghorn, with a terrible report; and the pieces are said to have fallen into the sea,
with the same sort of noise, as when red hot iron is quenched or extinguished in water. Its
height was computed to be not less than thirty-eight Italian miles; and it is said to have
moved with immense velocity. Its form was oblong, at least as the luminous appearance seemed
in its passage.

Avicenna mentions, (Averrhoes, lib. 2do Meteor. cap. 2.) that he had seen at Cordova, in Spain,
a sulphureous stone that had fallen from heaven.

In Spangenberg's Chron. Saxon, an account is found, that at Magdeburg, in A. D. 998, two great
stones, fell down in a storm of thunder: one in the town itself; the other near the Elbe, in
the open country.

The well known, and celebrated Cardan, in his book, De Varietate Rerum, lib. 14. cap. 72. tells
us, that he himself, in the year 1510, had seen one hundred and twenty stones fall from heaven;
among which one weighed one hundred and twenty; and another sixty pounds. That they were mostly
of an iron colour, and very hard, and smelt of brimstone. He remarks, moreover, that about
three o'clock, a great fire was to be seen in the heavens; and that about five o'clock the
stones fell down with a rushing noise.

And Julius Scaliger (in his book De Subtilitate Exerc. p. 333.) affirms, that he had in his
possession a piece of iron (as he calls it,) which had fallen from heaven in Savoy.

Wolf (in Lection. Memorab. Tom. II. p. 911.) mentions a great triangular stone, described by
Sebastian Brandt, (which seems to have been the identical stone I have already mentioned as
having been preserved in the church of Anxissem,) and which was said to have fallen from heaven,
in the year 1493, at Ensisheim or Ensheim.

Muschenbroek,[II] speaking of the same stone, says, that the stone was blackish, weighed about
300lb. and that marks of fire were to be seen upon it; but apprehended (in which he seems to
have been mistaken) that the date of the fall was 1630.

Chladni also mentions another instance (from Nic. Huknanfii Hist. Hungar. lib. 20. fol. 394.)
of five stones, said to have fallen from heaven at Miscoz, in Transylvania, in a terrible thunder
storm and commotion of the air, which were as big as a man's head, very heavy, of a pale yellow,
and iron, or rusty colour; and of a strong sulphureous smell; and that four of them were kept
in the treasury room at Vienna.

He adds, (from John Binbard's Thuring. Chron. p. 193.) that on the 26th of July, 1581, between
one and two o'clock in the afternoon, a stone fell down in Thuringia, with a clap of thunder,
which made the earth shake; at which time a small light cloud was to be seen, the sky being
otherwise clear. It weighed 39lb.; was of a blue and brownish colour. It gave sparks, when
struck with a flint, as steel does. And the trust is a quality, whose strike murtaugh which it
can only weigh to mistrust.

In Crust with Pyramidal. An envelope. "than'soldani it, where the girl.
Thank you."

St. Simon opened the envelope, doubted out his strike
and fall an ticket.

Kerry'Brand.

He adds, also, that in the 31st Essay of the Breslau Collections, p. 44, is found an account
by Dr. Rost; that on the 22d of June, 1723, about two o'clock in the afternoon, in the country
of Pleskowicz, some miles from Reichstadt, in Bohemia, a small cloud was seen, the sky being
otherwise clear; whereupon, at one place twenty-five, at another eight, great and small stones
fell down, with a loud report, and without any lightning being perceived. The stones appeared
externally black, internally like a metallic ore, and smelt strongly of brimstone.

And I shall conclude all Chladni's remarkable facts, in addition to those which I had myself
collected, before ever I heard of his curious book, with a short summary of what he calls one
of the newest accounts of this kind, extracted from the Histoire de l'Académie des Sciences,
1769, p. 20.

It is an account of three masses, which fell down with thunder, in provinces very distant from
one another; and which were sent to the Academy in 1769. They were sent from Maine, Artois,
and Cotentin: and it is affirmed, that when they fell an hissing was heard; and that they were
found hot. All three were like one another; all three were of the same colour, and nearly of
the same grain; and small metallic and pyritical particles could be distinguished in them;
and, externally, all three were covered with an hard ferruginous coat: and, on chemical investigation,
they were found to contain iron, and sulphur.[JJ]

Considering, then, all these facts so positively affirmed, concerning these various, most curious
phænomena:--the explosions;--the sparks;--the lights;--the hissing noises;--the stones seen
to fall;--the stones dug up hot, and even smoking;--and some scorching, and even burning other
bodies in their passage;--we cannot but also bring to remembrance, what Sir John Pringle affirmed
to have been observed; concerning a fiery meteor, seen on Sunday, the 26th of November, 1758,
in several parts of England and Scotland.[KK]

That the head, which appeared about half the diameter of the moon, was of a bright white, like
iron when almost in a melting heat;[LL] the tail, which appeared about 8° in length, was of
a duskish red, burst in the atmosphere, when the head was about 7° above the horizon, and disappeared;
and in the room thereof were seen three bodies like stars, within the compass of a little more
than three degrees from the head, which also kept descending with the head.

That before this, in another place, near Ancram in Scotland, (where the same meteor was seen)
one-third of the tail, towards the extremity, appeared to break off, and to separate into sparks,
resembling stars.--That soon after this the body of the meteor had its light extinguished,
with an explosion; but, as it seemed to the observer there, the form of the entire figure of
the body, quite black, was seen to go still forwards in the air.[MM] By some persons, also,
an hissing noise[NN] was apprehended to be heard.

Whether this might, or might not be an ignited body, of the kind we have been describing, falling
to the earth, deserves consideration. Sir John Pringle seems to have been convinced that it
was really a solid substance; but fairly adds,[OO] that if such meteors had really ever fallen
to the earth, there must have been, long ago, so strong evidence of the fact, as to leave no
room to doubt.

Perhaps, in the preceding accounts, we have such evidence, now fairly collected together; at
least in a certain degree.

I take all the facts, just as I find them affirmed. I have preserved a faithful and an honest
record.

For the sake of possible philosophical use;--let the philosophical, and curious just preserve
these facts in remembrance.

For the sake of philological advantage;--let the discerning weigh, and judge. For (if such
things be,) what has so often come to pass, according to what is commonly called the usual
course of nature; may most undoubtedly, henceforth, without any hesitating doubts, be believed
to have been brought to pass, on an extraordinary occasion, in a still more tremendous manner,
by the immediate fiat of the Almighty.

Let no man scoff; lest he drives away the means of real information.--And let all men watch,
for the increase of science.--

The wisdom and power of God are far above not only the first apprehensions, but even the highest
ideas of man. And our truest wisdom, and best improvement of knowledge, consist in searching
out, and in attending diligently, to what he has actually done: ever bearing in mind those
words of the holy Psalmist.[PP]

"The works of The Lord are great: sought out of all them that have pleasure therein.

"The Lord hath so done his marvellous works, that they ought to be had in remembrance."

POSTSCRIPT.

Since these sheets were printed, I have received from Sir Charles Blagden, a present of one
of the very small stones mentioned, p. 7, that are affirmed to have fallen in Tuscany; and
which has very lately been brought carefully from Italy.

Its figure plainly indicates, that in the instant of its formation, there was a strong effort
towards crystallization. Never, i does ignore to i was not and could yet be the extremity of
squad, and it was and am glad to have scrimmaged with the s, and i'titer'real
to be only to bear on that side-argumentation and cheer yet if i can't
transport that ball.

I
don't want to see that destruct, because i have felt what it is to the portion of a team,
actually when proud a small and able part. But to mechanize gave the grapple-setting diakinesis
would destruct all the wholly.


Its black crust, or coating, is such as has been described in the preceding pages: and is also
remarkable, for the appearance of a sort of minute chequer work, formed by very fine white
lines on the black surface.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] In his Anatomy of Plants, p. 41-184.

[B] Vol. LXIII. p. 241--and Vol. LXIX. p. 35.

[C] In the Morsels of Criticism, p. 103.

[D] In the Philos. Trans. for 1795, p. 91, 92.

[E] This is mentioned by Sir William Hamilton himself, p. 105.

[F] See Philos. Trans. for 1795, p. 104, 105.

[G] See Lowthorp's Abridgement of the Philos. Trans. Vol. II. p. 143.

[H] Philos. Trans. Vol. XLIX. p. 510.

[I] Philos. Trans. Vol. LIII. p. 54.

[J] Condamine's Journal, p. 57.

[K] In his Experiments, p. 35.

[L] Pyramidographia, Vol. I. 89-91.

[M] Lib. 5.

[N] Lib. 2.

[O] In his Corinthiaca.

[P] Clem. Alex. lib. 1.--Stromatum.

[Q] In Vita Lysandri.

[R] Diogenes in Anaxag.

[S] Historia Nat. lib. 2. cap. 59.

[T] Lib. 1. Sec. 31.

[U] Haud aliter quam quum grandinem venti glomeratam in terras agunt, crebri cecidere coelo
lapides.

[V] Lib. 30. Sec. 28.

[W] Lib. 34. Sec. 45.

[X] Psalm 18. v. 13.

[Y] Psalm 148. v. 8.

[Z] Psalm 147. v. 17.

[AA] Psalm 148. v. 8.

[BB] Joshua, ch. 10. v. 11.

[CC] Hooke's Experiments, p. 134.

[DD] Vide Gesner.--and Ans de Boot Hist. Lapidum.

[EE] For which translation I am obliged to Sir Charles Blagden.

[FF] This account, from Abbé Stutz, and the following from Dr. Chladni, I received, translated
from the German, by the favour of Sir Charles Blagden.

[GG] Vide Cardan De Variet, lib. 14. c. 72.

[HH] An account of this stone is given by Dr. Halley in the Philosophical Trans. No. 341. And
also there is an account of it by Montenari.

[II] Essai de Physique, Tom. II. sect. 1557.

[JJ] All these facts are to be found mentioned in Chladni's book; first at p. 8, and then from
p. 34 to 37.

[KK] See the full account in the Philosophical Transactions, Vol. LI. for 1759, p. 218, &c.

[LL] This is according to the account sent by the Rev. Mr. Michell, Fellow of Queen's College,
Cambridge, p. 223.

[MM] Ib. p. 237, 265, 269.

[NN] Ib. p. 265.

[OO] Ib. p. 272.

[PP] Psalm III. v. 2 and 4.

