Division of labor has, in reality, always existed, and still exists; but it is right only when
man decides with his reason and his conscience that it should be so, and not when he merely
investigates it.  And reason and conscience decide the question for all men very simply, unanimously,
and in a manner not to be doubted.  They always decide it thus: that division of labor is right
only when a special branch of man's activity is so needful to men, that they, entreating him
to serve them, voluntarily propose to support him in requital for that which he shall do for
them. But, when a man can live from infancy to the age of thirty years on the necks of others,
promising to do, when he shall have been taught, something extremely useful, for which no one
asks him; and when, from the age of thirty until his death, he can live in the same manner,
still merely on the promise to do something, for which there has been no request, this will
not be division of labor (and, as a matter of fact, there is no such thing in our society),
but it will be what it already is,--merely the appropriation, by force, of the toil of others;
that same appropriation by force of the toil of others which the philosophers formerly designated
by various names,--for instance, as indispensable forms of life,--but which scientific science
now calls the organic division of labor.

The whole significance of scientific science lies in this alone.  It has now become a distributer
of diplomas for idleness; for it alone, in its sanctuaries, selects and determines what is
parasitical, and what is organic activity, in the social organism.  Just as though every man
could not find this out for himself much more accurately and more speedily, by taking counsel
of his reason and his conscience.  It seems to men of scientific science, that there can be
no doubt of this, and that their activity is also indubitably organic; they, the scientific
and artistic workers, are the brain cells, and the most precious cells in the whole organism.

Ever since men--reasoning beings--have existed, they have distinguished good from evil, and
have profited by the fact that men have made this distinction before them; they have warred
against evil, and have sought the good, and have slowly but uninterruptedly advanced in that
path.  And divers delusions have always stood before men, hemming in this path, and having
for their object to demonstrate to them, that it was not necessary to do this, and that it
was not necessary to live as they were living. With fearful conflict and difficulty, men have
freed themselves from many delusions.  And behold, a new and a still more evil delusion has
sprung up in the path of mankind,--the scientific delusion.

This new delusion is precisely the same in nature as the old ones; its gist lies in secretly
leading astray the activity of our reason and conscience, and of those who have lived before
us, by something external. In scientific science, this external thing is--investigation.

The cunning of this science consists in this,--that, after pointing out to men the coarsest
false interpretations of the activity of the reason and conscience of man, it destroys in them
faith in their own reason and conscience, and assures them that every thing which their reason
and conscience say to them, that all that these have said to the loftiest representatives of
man heretofore, ever since the world has existed,--that all this is conventional and subjective.
"All this must be abandoned," they say; "it is impossible to understand the truth by the reason,
for we may be mistaken.  But there exists another unerring and almost mechanical path: it is
necessary to investigate facts."

But facts must be investigated on the foundation of scientific science, i.e., of the two hypotheses
of positivism and evolution, which are not borne out by any thing, and which give themselves
out as undoubted truths.  And the reigning science announces, with delusive solemnity, that
the solution of all problems of life is possible only through the study of facts, of nature,
and, in particular, of organisms.  The credulous mass of young people, overwhelmed by the novelty
of this authority, which has not yet been overthrown or even touched by criticism, flings itself
into the study of natural sciences, into that sole path, which, according to the assertion
of the reigning science, can lead to the elucidation of the problems of life.

But the farther the disciples proceed in this study, the farther and farther does not only
the possibility, but even the very idea, of the solution of the problems of life withdraw from
them, and the more and more do they become accustomed, not so much to investigate, as to believe
in the assertions of other investigators (to believe in cells, in protoplasm, in the fourth
condition of bodies, and so forth); the more and more does the form veil the contents from
them; the more and more do they lose the consciousness of good and evil, and the capacity of
understanding those expressions and definitions of good and evil which have been elaborated
through the whole foregoing life of mankind; and the more and more do they appropriate to themselves
the special scientific jargon of conventional expressions, which possesses no universally human
significance; and the deeper and deeper do they plunge into the debris of utterly unilluminated
investigations; the more and more do they lose the power, not only of independent thought,
but even of understanding the fresh human thought of others, which lies beyond the bounds of
their Talmud.  But the principal thing is, that they pass their best years in getting disused
to life; they grow accustomed to consider their position as justifiable; and they convert themselves
physically into utterly useless parasites, and mentally they dislocate their brains and become
mental eunuchs.  And in precisely the same manner, according to the measure of their folly,
do they acquire self-conceit, which deprives them forever of all possibility of return to a
simple life of toil, to a simple, clear, and universally human train of reasoning.

Division of labor always has existed in human communities, and will probably always exist;
but the question for us lies not in the fact that it has existed, and that it will exist, but
in this,--how are we to govern ourselves so that this division shall be right?  But if we take
investigation as our rule of action, we by this very act repudiate all rule; then in that case
we shall regard as right every division of labor which we shall descry among men, and which
appears to us to be right--to which conclusion the prevailing scientific science also leads.

Division of labor!

Some are busied in mental or moral, others in muscular or physical, labor.  With what confidence
people enunciate this!  They wish to think so, and it seems to them that, in point of fact,
a perfectly regular exchange of services does take place.

But we, in our blindness, have so completely lost sight of the responsibility which we have
assumed, that we have even forgotten in whose name our labor is prosecuted; and the very people
whom we have undertaken to serve have become the objects of our scientific and artistic activity.
We study and depict them for our amusement and diversion.  We have totally forgotten that what
we need to do is not to study and depict them, but to serve them.  To such a degree have we
lost sight of this duty which we have taken upon us, that we have not even noticed that what
we have undertaken to perform in the realm of science and art has been accomplished not by
us, but by others, and that our place has turned out to be occupied.

It proves that while we have been disputing, one about the spontaneous origin of organisms,
another as to what else there is in protoplasm, and so on, the common people have been in need
of spiritual food; and the unsuccessful and rejected of art and science, in obedience to the
mandate of adventurers who have in view the sole aim of profit, have begun to furnish the people
with this spiritual food, and still so furnish them. For the last forty years in Europe, and
for the last ten years with us here in Russia, millions of books and pictures and song-books
have been distributed, and stalls have been opened, and the people gaze and sing and receive
spiritual nourishment, but not from us who have undertaken to provide it; while we, justifying
our idleness by that spiritual food which we are supposed to furnish, sit by and wink at it.

But it is impossible for us to wink at it, for our last justification is slipping from beneath
our feet.  We have become specialized.  We have our particular functional activity.  We are
the brains of the people.  They support us, and we have undertaken to teach them.  It is only
under this pretence that we have excused ourselves from work.  But what have we taught them,
and what are we now teaching them?  They have waited for years--for tens, for hundreds of years.
And we keep on diverting our minds with chatter, and we instruct each other, and we console
ourselves, and we have utterly forgotten them.  We have so entirely forgotten them, that others
have undertaken to instruct them, and we have not even perceived it.  We have spoken of the
division of labor with such lack of seriousness, that it is obvious that what we have said
about the benefits which we have conferred on the people was simply a shameless evasion.

CHAPTER IV.

Science and art have arrogated to themselves the right of idleness, and of the enjoyment of
the labor of others, and have betrayed their calling. And their errors have arisen merely because
their servants, having set forth a falsely conceived principle of the division of labor, have
recognized their own right to make use of the labor of others, and have lost the significance
of their vocation; having taken for their aim, not the profit of the people, but the mysterious
profit of science and art, and delivered themselves over to idleness and vice--not so much
of the senses as of the mind.

They say, "Science and art have bestowed a great deal on mankind."

Science and art have bestowed a great deal on mankind, not because the men of art and science,
under the pretext of a division of labor, live on other people, but in spite of this.

The Roman Republic was powerful, not because her citizens had the power to live a vicious life,
but because among their number there were heroic citizens.  It is the same with art and science.
Art and science have bestowed much on mankind, but not because their followers formerly possessed
on rare occasions (and now possess on every occasion) the possibility of getting rid of labor;
but because there have been men of genius, who, without making use of these rights, have led
mankind forward.

The class of learned men and artists, which has advanced, on the fictitious basis of a division
of labor, its demands to the right of using the labors of others, cannot co-operate in the
success of true science and true art, because a lie cannot bring forth the truth.

We have become so accustomed to these, our tenderly reared or weakened representatives of mental
labor, that it seems to us horrible that a man of science or an artist should plough or cart
manure.  It seems to us that every thing would go to destruction, and that all his wisdom would
be rattled out of him in the cart, and that all those grand picturesque images which he bears
about in his breast would be soiled in the manure; but we have become so inured to this, that
it does not strike us as strange that our servitor of science--that is to say, the servant
and teacher of the truth--by making other people do for him that which he might do for himself,
passes half his time in dainty eating, in smoking, in talking, in free and easy gossip, in
reading the newspapers and romances, and in visiting the theatres.  It is not strange to us
to see our philosopher in the tavern, in the theatre, and at the ball.  It is not strange in
our eyes to learn that those artists who sweeten and ennoble our souls have passed their lives
in drunkenness, cards, and women, if not in something worse.

Art and science are very beautiful things; but just because they are so beautiful they should
not be spoiled by the compulsory combination with them of vice: that is to say, a man should
not get rid of his obligation to serve his own life and that of other people by his own labor.
Art and science have caused mankind to progress.  Yes; but not because men of art and science,
under the guise of division of labor, have rid themselves of the very first and most indisputable
of human obligations,--to labor with their hands in the universal struggle of mankind with nature.

"But only the division of labor, the freedom of men of science and of art from the necessity
of earning them living, has rendered possible that remarkable success of science which we behold
in our day," is the answer to this.  "If all were forced to till the soil, those vast results
would not have been attained which have been attained in our day; there would have been none
of those striking successes which have so greatly augmented man's power over nature, were it
not for these astronomical discoveries which are so astounding to the mind of man, and which
have added to the security of navigation; there would be no steamers, no railways, none of
those wonderful bridges, tunnels, steam-engines and telegraphs, photography, telephones, sewing-machines,
phonographs, electricity, telescopes, spectroscopes, microscopes, chloroform, Lister's bandages,
and carbolic acid."

I will not enumerate every thing on which our age thus prides itself. This enumeration and
pride of enthusiasm over ourselves and our exploits can be found in almost any newspaper and
popular pamphlet.  This enthusiasm over ourselves is often repeated to such a degree that none
of us can sufficiently rejoice over ourselves, that we are seriously convinced that art and
science have never made such progress as in our own time.  And, as we are indebted for all
this marvellous progress to the division of labor, why not acknowledge it?

Let us admit that the progress made in our day is noteworthy, marvellous, unusual; let us admit
that we are fortunate mortals to live in such a remarkable epoch: but let us endeavor to appraise
this progress, not on the basis of our self-satisfaction, but of that principle which defends
itself with this progress,--the division of labor.  All this progress is very amazing; but
by a peculiarly unlucky chance, admitted even by the men of science, this progress has not
so far improved, but it has rather rendered worse, the position of the majority, that is to
say, of the workingman.

If the workingman can travel on the railway, instead of walking, still that same railway has
burned down his forest, has carried off his grain under his very nose, and has brought his
condition very near to slavery--to the capitalist.  If, thanks to steam-engines and machines,
the workingman can purchase inferior calico at a cheap rate, on the other hand these engines
and machines have deprived him of work at home, and have brought him into a state of abject
slavery to the manufacturer.  If there are telephones and telescopes, poems, romances, theatres,
ballets, symphonies, operas, picture-galleries, and so forth, on the other hand the life of
the workingman has not been bettered by all this; for all of them, by the same unlucky chance,
are inaccessible to him.

So that, on the whole (and even men of science admit this), up to the present time, all these
remarkable discoveries and products of science and art have certainly not ameliorated the condition
of the workingman, if, indeed, they have not made it worse.  So that, if we set against the
question as to the reality of the progress attained by the arts and sciences, not our own rapture,
but that standard upon the basis of which the division of labor is defended,--the good of the
laboring man,--we shall see that we have no firm foundations for that self-satisfaction in
which we are so fond of indulging.

The peasant travels on the railway, the woman buys calico, in the isba (cottage) there will
be a lamp instead of a pine-knot, and the peasant will light his pipe with a match,--this is
convenient; but what right have I to say that the railway and the factory have proved advantageous
to the people?

If the peasant rides on the railway, and buys calico, a lamp, and matches, it is only because
it is impossible to forbid the peasant's buying them; but surely we are all aware that the
construction of railways and factories has never been carried out for the benefit of the lower
classes: so why should a casual convenience which the workingman enjoys lead to a proof of
the utility of all these institutions for the people?

There is something useful in every injurious thing.  After a conflagration, one can warm one's
self, and light one's pipe with a firebrand; but why declare that the conflagration is beneficial?

Men of art and science might say that their pursuits are beneficial to the people, only when
men of art and science have assigned to themselves the object of serving the people, as they
now assign themselves the object of serving the authorities and the capitalists.  We might
say this if men of art and science had taken as their aim the needs of the people; but there
are none such.  All scientists are busy with their priestly avocations, out of which proceed
investigations into protoplasm, the spectral analyses of stars, and so on.  But science has
never once thought of what axe or what hatchet is the most profitable to chop with, what saw
is the most handy, what is the best way to mix bread, from what flour, how to set it, how to
build and heat an oven, what food and drink, and what utensils, are the most convenient and
advantageous under certain conditions, what mushrooms may be eaten, how to propagate them,
and how to prepare them in the most suitable manner.  And yet all this is the province of science.

I am aware, that, according to its own definition, science ought to be useless, i.e., science
for the sake of science; but surely this is an obvious evasion.  The province of science is
to serve the people.  We have invented telegraphs, telephones, phonographs; but what advances
have we effected in the life, in the labor, of the people?  We have reckoned up two millions
of beetles!  And we have not tamed a single animal since biblical times, when all our animals
were already domesticated; but the reindeer, the stag, the partridge, the heath-cock, all remain
wild.

Our botanists have discovered the cell, and in the cell protoplasm, and in that protoplasm
still something more, and in that atom yet another thing.  It is evident that these occupations
will not end for a long time to come, because it is obvious that there can be no end to them,
and therefore the scientist has no time to devote to those things which are necessary to the
people.  And therefore, again, from the time of Egyptian and Hebrew antiquity, when wheat and
lentils had already been cultivated, down to our own times, not a single plant has been added
to the food of the people, with the exception of the potato, and that was not obtained by science.

