"Think of it? About as pretty a snarl as ever I see. I can't say as I'm so over and above taken
aback by what your mother says. I've all along had a hankerin' suspicion of it in my bones.
Some things seems to me like the smell o' water-melons, that I've knowed to come with fresh
snow; you know there is no water-melons, but then, there's the smell of 'em! But it won't do
to hurry a matter o' this kind--long-sufferin' and slow to anger, though that don't quite suit,
but never mind, all the same--my opinion is, ye've both o' ye got to wait!"

"Betsy, do you know nothing about it? Can you guess nothing?" Gilbert persisted.

She stole a quick glance at Martha, which he detected, and a chill ran through his blood. His
face grew pale.

"Nothin' that fits your case," said Miss Lavender, presently. She saw the renewal of Gilbert's
suspicion, and was casting about in her mind how to allay it without indicating something else
which she wished to conceal. "This I'll say," she exclaimed at last, with desperate frankness,
"that I do know somethin' that may be o' use, when things comes to the wust, as I hope they
won't, but it's neither here nor there so far as you two are concerned; so don't ask me, for
I won't tell, and if it's to be done, I'm the only one to do it! If I've got my little secrets,
I'm keepin' 'em in your interest, remember that!"

There was the glimmer of a tear in each of Miss Lavender's eyes before she knew it.

"Betsy, my dear friend!" cried Gilbert, "we know you and trust you. Only say this, for my sake--that
you think my mother's secret is nothing which will part Martha and me!"

"Martha and me. I do think so--am I a dragon, or a--what's that Job talks about?--a behemoth?
It's no use; we must all wait and see what'll turn up. But, Martha, I've rather a bright thought,
for a wonder; what if we could bring Alf. Barton into the plot, and git him to help us for
the sake o' his bein' helped?"

Martha looked surprised, but Gilbert flushed up to the roots of his hair, and set his lips
firmly together.

"I dunno as it'll do," continued Miss Betsy, with perfect indifference to these signs, "but
then it might. First and foremost, we must try to find out what he wants, for it isn't you,
Martha; so you, Gilbert, might as well be a little more of a cowcumber than you are at this
present moment. But if it's nothin' ag'inst the law, and not likely, for he's too cute, we
might even use a vessel--well, not exackly o' wrath, but somethin' like it. There's more 'n
one concern at work in all this, it strikes me, and it's wuth while to know 'em all."

Gilbert was ashamed of his sensitiveness in regard to Barton, especially after Martha's frank
and merry confession; so he declared himself entirely willing to abide by her judgment.

"It would not be pleasant to have Alfred Barton associated with us, even in the way of help,"
she said. "I have a woman's curiosity to know what he means, I confess, but, unless Betsy could
make the discovery without me, I would not take any steps towards it."

"Much would be fittin' to me, child," said Miss Lavender, "that wouldn't pass for you, at all.
We've got six weeks till Gilbert comes back, and no need o' hurry, except our arrand to Polly
Withers's, which'll come to nothin', unless you each take leave of other mighty quick, while
I'm lookin' for some more wintergreen."

With these words she turned short around and strode away.

"It had best be our own secret yet, Martha?" he asked.

"Yes, Gilbert, and all the more precious."

They clasped hands and kissed, once, twice, thrice, and then the underwood slowly deepened
between them, and the shadows of the forest separated them from each other.

CHAPTER XVIII.

SANDY FLASH REAPPEARS.

During the month of October, while Gilbert Potter was occupied with his lonely and monotonous
task, he had ample leisure to evolve a clear, calm, happy purpose from the tumult of his excited
feelings. This was, first, to accomplish his own independence, which now seemed inevitably
necessary, for his mother's sake, and its possible consequences to her; then, strong in the
knowledge of Martha Deane's fidelity, to wait with her.

With the exception of a few days of rainy weather, his hauling prospered, and he returned home
after five weeks' absence, to count up the gains of the year and find that very little was
lacking of the entire amount to be paid.

Mary Potter, as the prospect of release drew so near, became suddenly anxious and restless.
The knowledge that a very large sum of money (as she considered it) was in the house, filled
her with a thousand new fears. There were again rumors of Sandy Flash lurking around Marlborough,
and she shuddered and trembled whenever his name was mentioned. Her uneasiness became at last
so great that Gilbert finally proposed writing to the conveyancer in Chester who held the mortgage,
and asking whether the money might not as well be paid at once, since he had it in hand, as
wait until the following spring.

"It's not the regular way," said she, "but then, I suppose it'll hold in law. You can ask Mr.
Trainer about that. O Gilbert, if it can be done, it'll take a great load off my mind!"

"Whatever puts the mortgage into my hands, mother," said he, "is legal enough for us. I needn't
even wait to sell the grain; Mark Deane will lend me the seventy-five dollars still to be made
up, if he has them--or, if he can't, somebody else will. I was going to the Square this evening;
so I'll write the letter at once, and put it in the office."

The first thing Gilbert did, on reaching the village, was to post the letter in season for
the mail-rider, who went once a week to and fro between Chester and Peach-bottom Ferry, on
the Susquehanna. Then he crossed the street to Dr. Deane's, in order to inquire for Mark, but
with the chief hope of seeing Martha for one sweet moment, at least. In this, however, he was
disappointed; as he reached the gate, Mark issued from the door.

"Why, Gilbert, old boy!" he shouted; "the sight o' you's good for sore eyes! What have you
been about since that Sunday evening we rode up the west branch? I was jist steppin' over to
the tavern to see the fellows--come along, and have a glass o' Rye!"

He threw his heavy arm over Gilbert's shoulder, and drew him along.

"In a minute, Mark; wait a bit--I've a little matter of business with you. I need to borrow
seventy-five dollars for a month or six weeks, until my wheat is sold. Have you that much that
you're not using?"

"That and more comin' to me soon," said Mark, "and of course you can have it. Want it right away?"

"Very likely in ten or twelve days."

"Oh, well, never fear--I'll have some accounts squared by that time! Come along!" And therewith
the good-natured fellow hurried his friend into the bar-room of the Unicorn.

"Done pretty well, haulin', this time?" asked Mark, as they touched glasses.

"Very well," answered Gilbert, "seeing it's the last time. I'm at an end with hauling now."

"You don't say so? Here's to your good luck!" exclaimed Mark, emptying his glass.

A man, who had been tilting his chair against the wall, in the farther corner of the room,
now arose and came forward. It was Alfred Barton.

During Gilbert's absence, neither this gentleman's plan nor that of his father, had made much
progress. It was tolerably easy, to be sure, to give the old man the impression that the preliminary
arrangements with regard to money were going on harmoniously; but it was not so easy to procure
Dr. Deane's acceptance of the part marked out for him. Alfred had sought an interview with
the latter soon after that which he had had with Martha, and the result was not at all satisfactory.
The wooer had been obliged to declare that his suit was unsuccessful; but, he believed, only
temporarily so. Martha had been taken by surprise; the question had come upon her so suddenly
that she could scarcely be said to know her own mind, and time must be allowed her. Although
this statement seemed probable to Dr. Deane, as it coincided with his own experience in previously
sounding his daughter's mind, yet Alfred's evident anxiety that nothing should be said to Martha
upon the subject, and that the Doctor should assume to his father that the question of balancing
her legacy was as good as settled, (then proceed at once to the discussion of the second and
more important question,) excited the Doctor's suspicions. He could not well avoid giving the
required promise in relation to Martha, but he insisted on seeing the legal evidences of Alfred
Barton's property, before going a step further.

The latter was therefore in a state of great perplexity. The game he was playing seemed safe
enough, so far, but nothing had come of it, and beyond this point it could not be carried,
without great increase of risk. He was more than once tempted to drop it entirely, confessing
his complete and final rejection, and allowing his father to take what course he pleased; but
presently the itching of his avaricious curiosity returned in full force, and suggested new
expedients.

No suspicion of Gilbert Potter's relation to Martha Deane had ever entered his mind. He had
always had a liking for the young man, and would, no doubt, have done him any good service
which did not require the use of money. He now came forward very cordially and shook-hands
with the two.

Gilbert had self-possession enough to control his first impulse, and to meet his rival with
his former manner. Secure in his own fortune, he even felt that he could afford to be magnanimous,
and thus, by degrees, the dislike wore off which Martha's confession had excited.

"What is all this talk about Sandy Flash?" he asked.

"He's been seen up above," said Barton; "some say, about Marlborough, and some, along the Strasburg
road. He'll hardly come this way; he's too cunning to go where the people are prepared to receive
him."

If either of the three had happened to look steadily at the back window of the bar-room, they
might have detected, in the dusk, the face of Dougherty, the Irish ostler of the Unicorn Tavern.
It disappeared instantly, but there was a crack nearly half an inch wide between the bottom
of the back-door and the sill under it, and to that crack a large, flat ear was laid.

"If he comes any nearer, you must send word around at once," said Gilbert,--"not wait until
he's already among us."

"Let me alone for that!" Barton exclaimed; "Damn him, I only wish he had pluck enough to come!"

Mark was indignant "What's the sheriff and constables good for?" he cried. "It's a burnin'
shame that the whole country has been plundered so long, and the fellow still runnin' at large.
Much he cares for the five hundred dollars on his head."

"It's a thousand, now," said Barton. "They've doubled it."

"Come, that'd be a good haul for us. We're not bound to keep inside of our township; I'm for
an up and down chase all over the country, as soon as the fall work's over!"

"And I, too," said Gilbert

"You 're fellows after my own heart, both o' you!" Barton asserted, slapping them upon the
back. "What'll you take to drink?"

By this time several others had assembled, and the conversation became general. While the flying
rumors about Sandy Flash were being produced and discussed, Barton drew Gilbert aside.

"Suppose we step out on the back-porch," he said, "I want to have a word with you."

The door closed between them and the noisy bar-room. There was a rustling noise under the porch,
as of a fowl disturbed on its roost, and then everything was still.

"Your speaking of your having done well by hauling put it into my head, Gilbert," Barton continued.
"I wanted to borrow a little money for a while, and there's reasons why I shouldn't call upon
anybody who'd tell of it. Now, as you've got it, lying idle"--

"It happens to be just the other way, Barton," said Gilbert, interrupting him. "I came here
to-night to borrow."

"How's that?" Barton could not help asking, with a momentary sense of chagrin. But the next
moment he added, in a milder tone, "I don't mean to pry into your business."

"I shall very likely have to use my money soon," Gilbert explained, "and must at least wait
until I hear from Chester. That will be another week, and then, if the money should not be
wanted, I can accommodate you. But, to tell you the truth, I don't think there's much chance
of that"

"Shall you have to go down to Chester?"

"I hope so."

"When?"

"In ten or twelve days from now."

"Then," said Barton, "I 'II fix it this way. 'Tisn't only the money I want, but to have it
paid in Chester, without the old man or Stacy knowing anything of the matter. If I was to go
myself, Stacy'd never rest till he found out my business--Faith! I believe if I was hid in
the hayloft o' the William Penn Tavern, he'd scent me out. Now, I can get the money of another
fellow I know, if you'll take it down and hand it over for me. Would you be that obliging?"

"Of course," Gilbert answered. "If I go it will be no additional trouble."

"All right," said Barton, "between ourselves, you understand."

A week later, a letter, with the following address was brought to the post-office by the mail-rider,--

"To Mr. Gilbert Potter, Esq. Kennett Square P. O. These, with Care and Speed."

Gilbert, having carefully cut around the wafer and unfolded the sheet of strong yellowish paper,
read this missive,--

"Sir: Yr respd favour of ye [Footnote: This form of the article, though in general disuse at
the time, was still frequently employed in epistolary writing, in that part of Pennsylvania.
[ed note: The r in Yr and e in ye, etc. are superscripted.]] 11th came duly to hand, and ye
proposition wh it contains has been submitted to Mr. Jones, ye present houlder of ye mortgage.
He wishes me to inform you that he did not anticipate ye payment before ye first day of April,
1797, wh was ye term agreed upon at ye payment of ye first note; nevertheless, being required
to accept full and lawful payment, whensoever tendered, he hath impowered me to receive ye
moneys at yr convenience, providing ye settlement be full and compleat, as aforesaid, and not
merely ye payment of a part or portion thereof.

"Yr obt servt,

"ISAAC TRAINER."

Gilbert, with his limited experience of business matters, had entirely overlooked the fact,
that the permission of the creditor is not necessary to the payment of a debt. He had a profound
respect for all legal forms, and his indebtedness carried with it a sense of stern and perpetual
responsibility, which, alas! has not always been inherited by the descendants of that simple
and primitive period.

Mary Potter received the news with a sigh of relief. The money was again counted, the interest
which would be due somewhat laboriously computed, and finally nothing remained but the sum
which Mark Deane had promised to furnish. This Mark expected to receive on the following Wednesday,
and Gilbert and his mother agreed that the journey to Chester should be made at the close of
the same week.

They went over these calculations in the quiet of the Sabbath afternoon, sitting alone in the
neat, old-fashioned kitchen, with the dim light of an Indian-summer sun striking through the
leafless trumpet-vines, and making a quaint network of light and shade on the whitewashed window-frame.
The pendulum ticked drowsily along the opposite wall, and the hickory back-log on the hearth
hummed a lamentable song through all its simmering pores of sap. Peaceful as the happy landscape
without, dozing in dreams of the departed summer, cheery as the tidy household signs within,
seemed at last the lives of the two inmates. Mary Potter had not asked how her son's wooing
had further sped, but she felt that he was contented of heart; she, too, indulging finally
in the near consummation of her hopes,--which touched her like the pitying sympathy of the
Power that had dealt so singularly with her life,--was nearer the feeling of happiness than
she had been for long and weary years.

Gilbert was moved by the serenity of her face, and the trouble, which he knew it concealed,
seemed, to his mind, to be wearing away. Carefully securing the doors, they walked over the
fields together, pausing on the hilltop to listen to the caw of the gathering crows, or to
watch the ruby disc of the beamless sun stooping to touch the western rim of the valley. Many
a time had they thus gone over the farm together, but never before with such a sense of peace
and security. The day was removed, mysteriously, from the circle of its fellows, and set apart
by a peculiar influence which prevented either from ever forgetting it, during all the years
that came after.

They were not aware that at the very moment this influence was profoundest in their hearts,
new rumors of Sandy Flash's movements had reached Kennett Square, and were being excitedly
discussed at the Unicorn Tavern. He had been met on the Street Road, riding towards the Red
Lion, that very afternoon, by a man who knew his face; and, later in the evening came a second
report, that an individual of his build had crossed the Philadelphia Road, this side of the
Anvil, and gone southward into the woods. Many were the surmises, and even detailed accounts,
of robberies that either had been or might be committed, but no one could say precisely how
much was true.

Mark Deane was not at home, and the blacksmith was commissioned to summon Alfred Barton, who
had ridden over to Pennsbury, on a friendly visit to Mr. Joel Ferris. When he finally made
his appearance, towards ten o'clock, he was secretly horror-stricken at the great danger he
had escaped; but it gave him an admirable opportunity to swagger. He could do no less than
promise to summon the volunteers in the morning, and provision was made accordingly, for despatching
as many messengers as the village could afford.

Since the British occupation, nearly twenty years before, Kennett Square had not known as lively
a day as that which followed. The men and boys were in the street, grouped in front of the
tavern, the women at the windows, watching, some with alarmed, but many with amused faces.
Sally Fairthorn, although it was washing-day, stole up through Dr. Deane's garden and into
Martha's room, for at least half an hour, but Joe and Jake left their overturned shocks of
corn unhusked for the whole day.

Some of the young farmers to whom the message had been sent, returned answer that they were
very busy and could not leave their work; the horses of others were lame; the guns of others
broken. By ten o'clock, however, there were nine volunteers, very irregularly armed and mounted,
in attendance; by eleven o'clock, thirteen, and Alfred Barton, whose place as leader was anything
but comfortable, began to swell with an air of importance, and set about examining the guns
of his command. Neither he nor any one else noticed particularly that the Irish ostler appeared
to be a great connoisseur in muskets, and was especially interested in the structure of the
flints and pans.

"Let's look over the roll, and see how many are true blue," said Barton, drawing a paper from
his pocket. "There's failing nine or ten, among 'em some I fully counted on--Withers, he may
come yet; Ferris, hardly time to get word; but Carson, Potter, and Travilla ought to turn up
curst soon, or we'll have the sport without 'em!"

"Give me a horse, Mr. Barton, and I'll ride down for Gilbert!" cried Joe Fairthorn.

"No use,--Giles went this morning," growled Barton.

"It's time we were starting; which road would be best to take?" asked one of the volunteers.

"All roads lead to Rome, but all don't lead to Sandy Flash, ha! ha!" said another, laughing
at his own smartness.

"Who knows where he was seen last?" Barton asked, but it was not easy to get a coherent answer.
One had heard one report, and another another; he had been seen from the Street Road on the
north all the way around eastward by the Red Lion and the Anvil, and in the rocky glen below
the Barton farm, to the lime-quarries of Tuffkenamon on the west.

"Unless we scatter, it'll be like looking for a needle in a haystack," remarked one of the
more courageous volunteers.

"If they'd all had spunk enough to come," said Barton, "we might ha' made four parties, and
gone out on each road. As it is, we're only strong enough for two."

"Seven to one?--that's too much odds in Sandy's favor!" cried a light-headed youth, whereat
the others all laughed, and some of them blushed a little.

Barton bit his lip, and with a withering glance at the young man, replied,--"Then we'll make
three parties, and you shall be the third."

Another quarter of an hour having elapsed, without any accession to the troop, Barton reluctantly
advised the men to get their arms, which had been carelessly placed along the tavern-porch,
and to mount for the chase.

Just then Joe and Jake Fairthorn, who had been dodging back and forth through the village,
watching the roads, made their appearance with the announcement,--

"Hurray--there's another--comin' up from below, but it a'n't Gilbert. He's stuck full o' pistols,
but he's a-foot, and you must git him a horse. I tell you, he looks like a real buster!"

"Who can it be?" asked Barton.

"We'll see, in a minute," said the nearest volunteers, taking up their muskets.

"There he is,--there he is!" cried Joe.

All eyes, turned towards the crossing of the roads, beheld, just rounding the corner-house,
fifty paces distant, a short, broad-shouldered, determined figure, making directly for the
tavern. His face was red and freckled, his thin lips half-parted with a grin which showed the
flash of white teeth between them, and his eyes sparkled with the light of a cold, fierce courage.
He had a double-barrelled musket on his shoulder, and there were four pistols in the tight
leathern belt about his waist.

Barton turned deadly pale as he beheld this man. An astonished silence fell upon the group,
but, the next moment, some voice exclaimed, in an undertone, which, nevertheless, every one
heard,--

"By the living Lord! Sandy Flash himself!"

There was a general confused movement, of which Alfred Barton took advantage to partly cover
his heavy body by one of the porch-pillars. Some of the volunteers started back, others pressed
closer together. The pert youth, alone, who was to form the third party, brought his musket
to his shoulder.

Quick as lightning Sandy Flash drew a pistol from his belt and levelled it at the young man's
breast.

"Ground arms!" he cried, "or you are a dead man."

He was obeyed, although slowly and with grinding teeth.

"Stand aside!" he then commanded. "You have pluck, and I should hate to shoot you. Make way,
the rest o' ye! I've saved ye the trouble o' ridin' far to find me. Whoever puts finger to
trigger, falls. Back, back, I say, and open the door for me!"

Still advancing as he spoke, and shifting his pistol so as to cover now one, now another of
the group, he reached the tavern-porch. Some one opened the door of the barroom, which swung
inwards. The highwayman strode directly to the bar, and there stood, facing the open door,
while he cried to the trembling bar-keeper,--

"A glass o' Rye, good and strong!"

