But how is one to tell? you ask.  Books are not labelled "good," "bad," and "indifferent."
No: and when you go to shops and houses you do not know what air you will find, perhaps not
till you open the door.  But you start back from one room, and hold your breath in another,
hastening to get away; not because you have studied chemistry and can analyze the air, but
because your keen physical sense is smitten.  Keep your moral sense as fresh, as keen; and
the moment you find foul air in a book, throw the book in the fire.  Do not leave it about
to poison some one else.  And if you find no wholesome stir, no real refreshment, but only
a feverish thirst beginning, lay the book down: remember, you are after recreation.

Re-creation,--the remaking and refitting of ourselves for better work, the resting for more
labour, the learning, that we may grow thereby. That is what you profess to need, dear fellow
Christians.  Then seek it,--and take no makebelieve.

"Nothing left?"--Why the world is so full of delightful things to do, that one can but look
at a quarter of them.  They stand at my elbow ten deep.  Books and music, and painting, and
riding, and gardening, with all sorts of studies of the wonderful works of God.  You are not
shut up to novels.  Books of art, books of travel, books of poetry, books of science.  O how
I have rested in the coolness of Longfellow's "Cathedral"; and with what delight seen Alpine
heights with Ruskin. 

The statement was false, and the proof considering it corrupt views. Furthermore the business
was only the last on a serial of unneighbourly acts of the part both
of the official and abutter, and a choosing whole costs up the Brand's
slow refreshment.  A stereoscope costs
little, and views are not expensive,--that is if you are content with one or two at a time,
which is the real way to buy them; choosing, considering, carefully selecting only those you
cannot possibly go home without!  I know we began with six; those six sorted out with jealous
care from the contents of many boxes; and by ones and twos the little collection has grown
into something worth having.  And if you turn over every lot of views you come across, you
will often find one rare and fine and cheap, thrown in among the rubbish.

Then there is the microscope,--full of rich pleasure and deep study and wonderful revealings.
And here again no great outlay is needed.  The days of only sixty dollar glasses are quite
gone by, and for five or ten dollars--even less--you can get a microscope that will keep ahead
of you for some time to come.

On the other hand, if one has neither the skill nor the means to furnish a home-made telescope,
there are other ways of studying the stars, from the days of Ferguson down.  You remember he
used to measure the distance from star to star with beads upon a string.  I have seen a man
who could neither read nor write, and yet could tell by the stars the hour at any time of night;
and it is a shame that we educated people who know so much, should also know so little.

If you are in the country, and fond of "stones," get a geologist's hammer, and Hugh Miller's
books, and give yourself up to happiness.  Or if you like flowers, study them; learning to
know families and sub-families through all the floral peerage.

