Cervantes himself might have written Teresa's Book of the Foundations. Certainly he never wrote
a better book.  For myself I have read Teresa's Foundations twice at any rate for every once
I have read Cervantes' masterpiece.  For literature, for humour, for wit, for nature, for photographic
pictures of the time and the people, her Foundations are a masterpiece also: and then, Teresa's
pictures are pictures of the best people in Spain.  And there was no finer people in the whole
of Christendom in that day than the best of the Spanish people.  God had much people in the
Spain of that day, and he who is not glad to hear that will never have a place among them.
The Spain of that century was full of family life of the most polished and refined kind.  And,
with all their declensions and corruptions, the Religious Houses of Spain enclosed multitudes
of the most saintly men and women.  'I never read of a hermit,' said Dr. Johnson to Boswell
in St. Andrews, 'but in imagination I kiss his feet: I never read of a monastery, but I could
fall on my knees and kiss the pavement.  The Book of the Foundations is Teresa's own account,
written also under superior orders, of that great group of religious houses which she founded
and administered for so many years.  And the literature into which she puts all those years
is literature of the first water.  A thousand times I have been reminded of Don Quixote and
Sancho Panza as I read Teresa's account of her journeys, and of the people, and of the escapades,
and of the entertainments she met with.  Yes, quite as good as Cervantes! yes, quite as good
as Goldsmith!--I have caught myself exclaiming as I read and laughed till the tears ran down
my cheeks.  This is literature, this is art without the art, this is literary finish without
the labour: and all laid out to the finest of all uses, to tell of the work of God, and of
all the enterprises, providences, defeats, successes, recompenses, connected with it.  The
Foundations is a Christian classic even in Woodhead's and Dalton's and David Lewis's English,
what must it then be to those to whom Teresa's exquisite Spanish is their mother-tongue!

If Vaughan had but read The Foundations, which he is honest enough to confess he had only glanced
at in a French translation, it would surely have done something to make him reconsider the
indecent and disgraceful attack which he makes on Teresa.  His chapter on Teresa is a contemptuous
and a malicious caricature.  Vaughan has often been of great service to me, but if I had gone
by that misleading chapter, I would have lost weeks of most intensely interesting and spiritually
profitable reading. Vaughan's extravagant misrepresentation of Teresa will henceforth make
me hesitate to receive his other judgments till I have read the books myself.  I shall not
tarry here to controvert Vaughan's utterly untruthful chapter on Teresa, I shall content myself
with setting over against it Crashaw's exquisite Hymn and Apology, and especially his magnificent
Flaming Heart.

Teresa's Way of Perfection is a truly fine book: full of freshness, suggestiveness, and power.
So much so, that I question if William Law's Christian Perfection would ever have been written,
but that Teresa had written on that same subject before him.  I do not say that Law plagiarised
from Teresa, but some of his very best passages are plainly inspired by his great predecessor.
You will thank me for the following eloquent passage from Mrs. Cunninghame Graham, which so
felicitously characterises this great book, and that in language such as I could not command.
'To my thinking Teresa is at her best in her Way of Perfection with its bursts of impassioned
eloquence; its shrewd and caustic irony; its acute and penetrating knowledge of human character,
the same in the convent as in the world; above all in its sympathetic and tender instinct for
the needs and difficulties of her daughters.  The Perfection represents the finished and magnificent
fabric of the spiritual life.  Her words ring with a strange terseness and earnestness as she
here pens her spiritual testament.  She points out the mischievous foibles, the little meannesses,
the spirit of cantankerousness and strife, which long experience of the cloister had shown
her were the besetting sins of the conventual life.  She places before them the loftier standard
of the Cross.  Her words, direct and simple, ring out true and clear, producing somewhat the
solemn effect of a Commination Service.'  Strong as that estimate is, The Perfection deserves
every word of it and more.

Teresa thought that her Mansions was one of her two best books, but she was surely far wrong
in that.  The Mansions, sometimes called The Interior Castle, to me at any rate, is a most
shapeless, monotonous, and wearisome book.  Teresa had a splendid imagination, but her imagination
had not the architectonic and dramatic quality that is necessary for carrying out such a conception
as that is which she has laid in the ground-plan of this book.  No one who has ever read The
Purgatorio or The Holy War could have patience with the shapeless and inconsequent Mansions.
There is nothing that is new in the matter of the Mansions; there is nothing that is not found
in a far better shape in some of her other books; and one is continually wearied out by her
utter inability to handle the imagery which she will not let alone.  At the same time, the
persevering reader will come continually on characteristic things that are never to be forgotten
as he climbs with Teresa from strength to strength on her way to her Father's House.

To my mind Teresa is at her very best, not in her Mansions which she made so much of, but in
her Letters which she made nothing of.  I think I prefer her Letters to all her other books.
A great service was done to this fine field of literature when Teresa's letters were collected
and published.  What Augustine's editor has so well said about Augustine's letters I would
borrow and would apply to Teresa's letters.  All her other works receive fresh light from her
letters.  The subjects of her more elaborate writings are all handled in her letters in a far
easier, a far more natural, and a far more attractive manner.  It is in her letters that we
first see the size and the strength and the sweep of her mind, and discover the deserved deference
that is paid to her on all hands. Burdened churchmen, inquiring students in the spiritual life,
perplexed confessors, angry and remonstrating monks, husbands and wives, matrons and maidens,
all find their way to Mother Teresa.  Great bundles of letters are delivered at the door of
her cell every day, and she works at her answers to those letters till a bird begins to flutter
in the top of her head, after which her physician will not suffer her to write more than twelve
letters at a downsitting.  And what letters they are, all sealed with the name of JESUS--she
will seal now with no other seal.  What letters of a strong and sound mind go out under that
seal!  What a business head!  What shrewdness, sagacity, insight, frankness, boldness, archness,
raillery, downright fun!  And all as full of splendid sense as an egg is full of meat.  If
Andrew Bonar had only read Spanish, and had edited Teresa's Letters as he has edited Rutherford's,
we would have had that treasure in all our houses.  As it is, Father Coleridge long ago fell
on the happy idea of compiling a Life of Teresa out of her extant letters, and he has at last
carried out his idea, if not in all its original fulness, yet in a very admirable and praiseworthy
way.  But I would like to know how many of the boasted literary and religious people of Edinburgh
have bought and read Father Coleridge's delightful book.  A hundred?  Ten?  Five?  I doubt
it.  Or how many have so much as borrowed from the circulating library Mrs. Cunninghame Graham's
first-rate book? Of Teresa's Letters, that greatest living authority on Teresa says--'That
long series of epistolary correspondence, so enchanting in the original.  It is in her letters
that Teresa is at her best.  They reveal all her shrewdness about business and money matters;
her talent for administration; her intense interest in life, and in all that is passing around
her.  Her letters show Teresa as the Castilian gentlewoman who not only treats on terms of
perfect equality with people of the highest rank in the kingdom, but is in the greatest request
by them.  Her letters, of which probably only a tithe remains, show us how marvellously the
horizon of her life had expanded, and how rapidly her fame had grown. Perhaps no more finished
specimen of epistolary correspondence has ever been penned than those letters, written in the
press of multifarious occupations, and often late at night when the rest of the convent was
sleeping.'

Her confessor, who commanded Teresa to throw her Commentary on the Song of Solomon into the
fire, was a sensible man and a true friend to her reputation, and the nun who snatched a few
leaves out of the fire did Teresa's fame no service.  Judging of the whole by the part preserved
to us, there must have been many things scattered up and down the destroyed book well worthy
of her best pen.  The 'instance of self-esteem' which Teresa so delightfully narrates is well
worth all the burnt fingers its preservation had cost the devoted sister: and up and down the
charred leaves there are passages on conduct and character, on obedience and humility and prayer,
that Teresa alone could have written.  All the same, as a whole, her Commentary on the Song
is better in the fire.

Her Seven Meditations on the Lord's Prayer ran no danger of the censor's fire.  I have had
occasion to read all the best expositions of the Lord's Prayer in our language, and I am bound
to say that for originality and striking suggestiveness Teresa's Seven Meditations stands alone.
After I had written that extravagant sentence I went back and read her little book over again,
so sure was I that I must have overpraised it, and that I would not be believed in what I have
said concerning it.  But after another reading of the Meditations I am emboldened to let the
strong praise stand in all its original strength.  I have passages marked in abundance to prove
to demonstration the estimate I have formed of this beautiful book, but I must forego myself
the pleasure and the pride of quoting them.

Sixteen Augustinian Exclamations after having Communicated: sixty-nine Advices to Her Daughters,
and a small collection of love-enflamed Hymns, complete what remains to us of Teresa's writings.

Teresa died of hard work and worry and shameful neglect, almost to sheer starvation.  But she
had meat to eat that all Anne Bartholomew's remaining mites could not buy for her dying mother.
And, strong in the strength of that spiritual meat, Teresa rose off her deathbed to finish
her work.  She inspected with all her wonted quickness of eye and love of order the whole of
the House into which she had been carried to die.  She saw everything put into its proper place,
and every one answering to their proper order, after which she attended the divine offices
for the day, and then went back to her bed and summoned her daughters around her. 'My children,'
she said, 'you must pardon me much; you must pardon me most of all the bad example I have given
you.  Do not imitate me.  Do not live as I have lived.  I have been the greatest sinner in
all the world. I have not kept the laws I made for others.  I beseech you, my daughters, for
the love of God, to keep the rules of your Holy Houses as I have never kept them.  O my Lord,'
she then turned to Him and said, 'the hour I have so much longed for has surely come at last.
The time has surely come that we shall see one another.  My Lord and Saviour, it is surely
time for me to be taken out of this banishment and be for ever with Thee.  Cast me not away
from Thy presence, and take not Thy Holy Spirit away from me.  Create in me a clean heart,
O God.'  'A broken and a contrite heart; a broken and a contrite heart,' was her continual
cry till she died with these words on her lips, 'A broken and a contrite heart Thou wilt not
despise.'  And, thus, with the most penitential of David's penitential Psalms in her mouth,
and with the holy candle of her Church in her hand, Teresa of Jesus went forth from her banishment
to meet her Bridegroom.

SOME SELECTED PASSAGES

* The translations in the following pages are mainly those of Woodhead and Lewis.

TERESA ON HERSELF

I had a father and a mother who both feared God.  My father had his chief delight in the reading
of good books, and he did his best to give his children the same happy taste.  This also helped
me much, that I never saw my father or my mother regard anything but goodness.  Though possessing
very great beauty in her youth, my mother was never known to set any store by it.  Her apparel,
even in her early married life, was that of a woman no longer young.  Her life was a life of
suffering, her death was most Christian.  After my mother's removal, I began to think too much
about my dress and my appearance, and I pursued many such like things that I was never properly
warned against, full of mischief though they were both to myself and to others.  I too early
learned every evil from an immoral relative.  I was very fond of this woman's company.  I gossiped
and talked with her continually.  She assisted me to all the amusements I loved; and, what
was worse, she found some very evil amusements for me, and in every way communicated to me
her own vanities and mischiefs.  I am amazed to think on the evil that one bad companion can
do; nor could I have believed it, unless I had known it by experience.  The company and the
conversation of this one woman so changed me that scarcely any trace was left in me of my natural
disposition to virtue.  I became a perfect reflection of her and of another who was as bad
as she was.

For my education and protection my father sent me to the Augustinian Monastery, in which children
like myself were brought up.  There was a good woman in that religious house, and I began gradually
to love her. How impressively she used to speak to me of God!  She was a woman of the greatest
good sense and sanctity.  She told me how she first came to herself by the mere reading of
these words of the Gospel, 'Many are called and few chosen.'  This good companionship began
to root out the bad habits I had brought to that house with me; but my heart had by that time
become so hard that I never shed a tear, no, not though I read the whole Passion through. 
When at last I entered the Religious House of the Incarnation for life, our Lord at once made
me understand how He helps those who do any violence to themselves in order to serve Him. 
No one observed this violence in me.  They saw nothing in me but the greatest goodwill.  At
that sore step I was filled with a joy so great that it has never wholly left me to this day.
God converted the dryness of my soul into the greatest tenderness, immediately on my taking
up that cross. Everything in religion was now a real delight to me.  I had more pleasure now
in sweeping the house than I had in all the balls and dances I had forsaken for His sake. 
Whenever I remember those early days, it makes me ready to take up any cross whatsoever.  For
I know now by a long and a various experience that His Majesty richly rewards even in this
life all the self-denial that we do for His sake and service.  I know this by many experiences;
and if I were a person who had to advise and guide God's people, I would urge them to fear
no difficulty whatsoever in the path of duty: for our God is omnipotent, and He is on our side.
May He be blessed for ever!  Amen.

O my supreme Good and my true Rest, I know not how to go on when I call those happy days to
mind, and think of all my evil life since then!  My tears ought to be tears of blood.  My heart
ought to break.  But Thou, Lord, hast borne with me for almost twenty years, till I have had
time to improve.  And all that it might be better known to me who Thou art and what I am. 
Woe is me, my Maker!  I have no excuse, I have only blame. Let Thy mercy, O Lord, rest on me.
Other women there have been who have done great deeds in Thy service, but I am good only to
talk: all my goodness ends in so many words: that is all my service of Thee, my God. Cost me
what it may, let me not go on coming to Thee with idle words and empty hands, seeing that the
reward of every one will be according to his works.  Depart not from me, and I can do all things.
Depart from me, and I shall return to whence I was taken, even to hell.

One of the reasons that move me, who am what I am, to write all this even under obedience,
and to give an account of my wretched life, and of the graces the Lord hath wrought in me is
this,--and would that I were a person of authority, and then people would perhaps believe what
I say. This then is what I would say and repeat continually if any one would hear me.  Let
no one ever say: If I fall into sin, I cannot then pray.  In this the devil turned his most
dreadful batteries against me.  He said to me that it showed very little shame in me if I could
have the face to pray, who had just been so wicked.  And under that snare of Satan I actually
as good as gave up all prayer for a year and a half.  This was nothing else but to throw myself
straight down into hell.  O my God, was there ever such madness as mine!  Where could I think
to find either pardon for the past, or power for the time to come, but from Thee?  What folly
to the stumbler to run away from the light!  Let all those who would give themselves to prayer,
and to a holy life, look well to this. They should know that when I was shunning prayer because
I was so bad, my badness became more abandoned than ever it had been before.  Rely on the waiting
and abounding goodness of God, which is infinitely greater than all the evil you can do.  When
we acknowledge our vileness, He remembers it no more.  I grew weary of sinning before God grew
weary of forgiving my sin.  He is never weary of giving grace, nor are his compassions to be
exhausted.  May He be blessed for ever, amen: and may all created things praise Him!

I have made a vow--[it is known as 'the Teresian vow,' 'the seraphic vow,' 'the most arduous
of vows,' 'a vow yet unexampled in the Church'], a vow never to offend God in the very least
matter.  I have vowed that I would rather die a thousand deaths than do anything of that kind,
knowing I was doing it.  I am resolved also, never to leave anything whatsoever undone that
I consider to be still more perfect, and more for the honour of our Lord.  Cost me what pain
it may, I would not leave such an act undone for all the treasures of the world.  If I were
to do so, I do not think I could have the face to ask anything of God in prayer: and yet, for
all that, I have many faults and imperfections remaining in me to this day.

ON THE GODHEAD

