After a few weeks' incarceration, Mrs. Raymond, in accordance with my advice, made known the
secret of her sex to the chief officer of the prison, to whom she also communicated the great
wrongs which she had suffered at the hand of Livingston. The officer, who was a good and humane
man, was deeply affected by this narrative. He immediately placed Mrs. Raymond in a more comfortable
room and caused her to be provided with an abundance of female garments, which she now resumed.
Her story, of course, was given in all the newspapers; and it excited the deepest sympathy
in her behalf. One editor boldly asserted that no jury could be found to convict the fair prisoner
under the circumstances. As regarded my case, the propriety of my immediate discharge from
custody was strongly urged, an opinion in which I fully concurred.

I shall dwell upon these matters as briefly as possible. I was first brought to trial, and
the jury acquitted me without leaving their seats; Mrs. Raymond was merely convicted of manslaughter
in the fourth degree, so great was the sympathy that existed in her behalf, and the judge sentenced
her to be imprisoned during the term of two years. Although I considered her particularly fortunate
in receiving a punishment so comparatively light, I resolved to effect her liberation in some
way or other.

I may as well here remark that the last wife and victim of Livingston never survived the blow.
She soon died of a broken heart.

My first step was to repair to Harrisburg, the capitol city of the State, in order to solicit
Mrs. Raymond's pardon from Governor Porter, who was renowned, and by some parties strongly
condemned, for his constant willingness to bestow executive clemency upon prisoners convicted
of the most serious offences.[K] I easily obtained an interview with his Excellency, whom I
found to be a very clever sort of personage. Having made known my errand, and related all the
particulars of Mrs. Raymond's case, I urged her claims to mercy with all the eloquence of which
I was master.

The Governor listened to me with attention; and, when I had concluded, he said--

"My inclination strongly prompts me to pardon this most unfortunate lady; but I have recently
pardoned so many convicted prisoners, that the press and the people generally are down on me,
and I really dare not grant any more pardons at present. I will, however, commute the lady's
sentence from two years to one."

With this partial concession I was obliged to be contented. The necessary documents were made
out, and with them I posted back to Pittsburg. When I entered the cell of my fair friend and
told her what I had effected in her behalf, she burst into tears of gratitude and joy. One
long year taken off her sentence, was certainly something worth considering.

"Courage, my friend!" said I, "even if you are obliged to serve out the remnant of your sentence,
which I trust will not be the case, a year will soon pass away. I shall not leave Pittsburg
until you are free. You will see me often; and I will take care that you are abundantly provided
with everything that can contribute to your comfort. Keep up a good heart; you have at least
one friend who will never desert you."

Three months passed away, during which time I gained an excellent subsistence by writing for
various newspapers and magazines. Three times every week I had an interview with Mrs. Raymond,
whom I caused to be supplied with every comfort and luxury as allowed by the rules of the prison.
She had just nine months to serve, when one day I was unexpectedly enabled to effect her liberation
in the following manner.

I had called upon her, as usual. After an interview of about half an hour's duration, I bade
her adieu and left her apartment. To gain the street, it was necessary to pass through the
office of the prison. In that office were generally seated three or four turnkeys, one of whom
always went and locked Mrs. Raymond's door after my leaving her.

Upon entering the office on the occasion to which I now refer, I found but one turnkey there,
and he was fast asleep. I instantly resolved to take advantage of the lucky circumstance which
good fortune had thrown in my way.

Hastening back to Mrs. Raymond's cell, I briefly told her the state of affairs and bade her
follow me. She obeyed, as might be supposed, without much reluctance. We passed through the
office and out into the street; but, before departing, I transferred the key from the inside
to the outside of the door and locked the sleeping turnkey in, so that there could be no possibility
of his immediately pursuing us, when he should awaken and discover the flight of his prisoner.

I was tolerably well furnished with cash, and my fair friend, at my suggestion, purchased an
elegant bonnet and shawl--for, it will be remembered, she had resumed the garments appropriate
to the female sex. As for myself, I was exceedingly well dressed, and no alteration in my costume
was necessary, in order to present a respectable appearance.

I entertained no serious apprehensions of any great effort being made to capture the fugitive,
she having had but nine months to serve, and being therefore a person of but little importance
when viewed as a prisoner. Moreover, I hoped that the kind-hearted chief officer of the prison
would charitably refrain from making any extraordinary exertions in the matter. But these considerations
did not prevent me from exercising a reasonable degree of caution.

We left Pittsburg that evening, for Philadelphia, where we arrived in due season. I immediately
sought and procured employment as a writer, at a liberal salary. A few days after our arrival
in Philadelphia, Mrs. Raymond said to me--

"My dear friend, I am not going to remain a burden to you. Listen to the plan which I have
to propose. I think of going upon the stage."

"What, and becoming an actress?"

"Yes. I flatter myself that my voice and figure are both passable; and I really think that
I possess some talent for the theatrical profession. A respectable actress always receives
a good salary. If the plan meets with your approbation, I shall place myself under the tuition
of some competent teacher; and my debut shall be made as soon as advisable."

I did not attempt to dissuade Mrs. Raymond from carrying out this plan, which I thought, in
fact, to be a very excellent idea. Once successfully brought out upon the stage, she would
have a profession which would be to her an unfailing means of support.

According to the best of my judgment, she possessed every mental and physical qualification
necessary to constitute a good actress. Beautiful and sprightly, talented and accomplished--possessing,
too, the most exquisite taste and skill as a vocalist and musician, I saw no reason why she
should not succeed upon the stage as well, and far better, than many women a thousand times
less talented. Therefore, encouraged by my cordial approbation of her plan, and acting in accordance
with my recommendation, the fair aspirant to dramatic honors placed herself under the instructions
of a popular and well-known actor, who was fully capable of the task which he had undertaken.

A few months passed away, and my fair friend announced herself as being nearly in readiness
to make her first appearance. I was delighted with the rapid and satisfactory progress which
she had made. The recitations with which she occasionally favored me, were delivered in the
highest style of the elocutionary art, and convinced me that she was destined to meet with
the most unbounded success.

She proposed making her debut as Beatrice, in Shakespeare's glorious comedy, "Much Ado About
Nothing,"--a character well calculated to display her arch vivacity and charming sprightliness.
I saw her rehearse the part, and was satisfied that she must achieve a brilliant triumph,--an
opinion that was fully concurred in by her gratified instructor, and also by the manager and
several of the leading actors and actresses of the theatre.

The eventful evening came at last, and the house was crowded in every part. Seating myself
in a private box in company with the actor who had instructed Mrs. Raymond, I awaited her appearance
with the utmost confidence. The curtain arose, and the play commenced. When Beatrice came on,
a perfect storm of applause saluted her. Her appearance, in her elegant and costly stage costume,
was really superb. Perfectly self-possessed, and undaunted by the sea of faces spread out before
her, she went on with her part, and was frequently interrupted by deafening shouts of approval.
The Benedict of the evening being a very fine actor, and the Dogberry being as funny a dog
as ever created a broad grin or a hearty laugh--the entire comedy passed off in the most admirable
manner; and, at its conclusion, my fair friend being loudly called for, she was led out in
front of the curtain by Benedict. A shower of bouquets now saluted her; and, having gracefully
acknowledged the kindness of the audience, she retired.

This decided success caused the manager to engage Mrs. Raymond at a liberal salary. She subsequently
appeared with equal success in a round of the best characters; and the press, and every tongue,
became eloquent in her praise. She was now in a fair way to acquire a fortune as great as the
one which she had lost through the villainy of Livingston.

Thinking her worthy of a higher position than that of a mere stock actress, I advised her,
after a year's sojourn in Philadelphia, to travel as a star. To this she eagerly assented,
and accordingly I accompanied her to New York, where she was immediately engaged by the late
Thomas S. Hamblin, of the Bowery Theatre.[L] Her success at this popular establishment was
unprecedented in the annals of dramatic triumphs. Night after night was she greeted by crowded,
enthusiastic and enraptured audiences. In short, she became one of the most celebrated actresses
of the day.

FOOTNOTES:

[K] It is related of Governor Porter as an illustration of his pardoning propensities, that
once, after his term of office had expired, a gentleman accidentally ran against him in the
street. "I beg your pardon," said the gentleman. "I cannot grant it," said Mr. Porter, "for
I am no longer Governor."

[L] I have not, for reasons that will be easily understood, given the name which Mrs. Raymond
assumed, after her adoption of the dramatic profession.

CHAPTER IX

An accident--a suicide--and a change of residence.

A dreadful accident abruptly terminated Mrs. Raymond's brilliant professional career. One night,
while she was dressing in her private room at the theatre, a camphene lamp exploded and her
face was shockingly burned. Her beauty was destroyed forever, and her career upon the stage
was ended. Thus was the public deprived of a most delightful source of entertainment, and thus
was a popular actress thrown out of the profession just as she had reached the pinnacle of
fame, and just as she was in a fair way to acquire a handsome fortune.

It would be impossible for me to describe the grief, consternation and horror of the unfortunate
lady, on account of this melancholy accident. In vain did I attempt to console her, she refused
to be comforted. She abandoned herself to despair; and I caused her to be closely and constantly
watched, fearing that she might attempt to commit suicide.

The play-going public soon found a new idol, and poor Mrs. Raymond was forgotten. Her face
was terribly disfigured, and it was very fortunate that her sight was not destroyed. When she
became well enough, she endeavored to gain a situation as a teacher of music; but she was unceremoniously
rejected by every person to whom she applied, on account of the repulsiveness of her countenance.
This of course, still further increased the dark despair that overshadowed her soul.

"My friend," said she to me one day, "I shall not long survive this terrible misfortune. My
heart is breaking, and death will ere long put an end to my sufferings."

"Come, come," said I, "where is your philosophy? Have you not passed through trials as great
as this? While there is life, there is hope; and you will be happy yet."

I uttered these commonplace expressions because I knew not what else to say. Mrs. Raymond replied,
with a mournful smile--

"Ah! with all your knowledge of the world, you know not how a woman feels when she has been
suddenly deprived of her beauty. The miser who loses his wealth--the fond mother from whom
death snatches away her darling child; these bereaved ones do not feel their losses more acutely
than does a once lovely woman feel the loss of her charms. Do not talk to me of philosophy,
for such language is mockery."

I visited my unfortunate and no longer fair friend very often, but all my attempts to cheer
her up signally failed. She persisted in declaring that she was not long for this world; and
I began to believe so myself, for she failed rapidly. I saw that she was provided with every
comfort; but alas! happiness was beyond her reach forever.

One evening I set out to pay her a visit. On my arrival at the house in which she had taken
apartments, the landlady informed me that she had not seen Mrs. Raymond during the whole of
that day.

"It is very singular," remarked the woman, "I knocked five or six times at the door of her
chamber, but she gave me no answer, although I know she has not gone out."

These words caused a dreadful misgiving to seize me. Fearing that something terrible had happened,
I rushed up stairs, and knocked loudly upon the door of Mrs. Raymond's chamber. No answer being
returned, I burst open the door, and my worst fears were realized, for there, upon the floor
lay the lifeless form of that most unfortunate woman. She had committed suicide by taking arsenic.

This dreadful event afflicted me more deeply than any other occurrence of my life. I had become
attached to Mrs. Raymond on account of a certain congeniality of disposition between us. We
had travelled far together, and shared great dangers. That was another link to bind us together.
Besides I admired her for her talent, and more particularly for her heroic resolution. She
was, altogether, a most extraordinary woman, and, under the circumstances, it was no wonder
that her tragical end should have caused within me a feeling of the most profound sorrow.

Having followed her remains to their last resting-place, I did something that I was very accustomed
to do--I sat down to indulge in a little serious reflection, the result of which was that I
determined to go to Boston, for New York had become wearisome to me. Besides, I knew that Boston
was the grand storehouse of American literature--the "Athens of America," and I doubted not
my ability to achieve both fame and money there.

To Boston I accordingly went. On the first day of my arrival, I crossed over to Charlestown
for the purpose of viewing the Bunker Hill Monument. Having satisfied my curiosity, I strolled
into a printing office, fell into conversation with the proprietor, and the result was that
I found myself engaged at a moderate salary to edit and take the entire charge of a long-established
weekly newspaper of limited circulation, entitled the "Bunker Hill Aurora and Boston Mirror."
This journal soon began to increase both in reputation and circulation, for I filled it with
good original tales and with sprightly editorials. Yet no credit was awarded to me, for my
name never appeared in connection with my productions, and people imagined that W----, the
proprietor, was the author of the improvements which had taken place.

"Egad!" the subscribers to the Aurora would say--"old W---- has waked up at last. His paper
is now full of tip-top reading, whereas it was formerly not worth house-room!"

How many instances of this kind have I seen--of writers toiling with their pens and brains
for the benefit and credit of ungrateful wretches without intellect, or soul, or honor, or
common humanity! Charlestown is probably the meanest and most contemptible place in the whole
universe--totally unfit to be the dwelling-place of any man who calls himself white. The inhabitants
all belong to the Paul Pry family. A stranger goes among them, and forthwith inquisitive whispers
concerning him begin to float about like feathers in the air. "Who is he? What is he? Where
did he come from? What's his business? Has he got any money? (Great emphasis is laid on this
question.) Is he married, or single? What are his habits? Is he a temperance man? Does he smoke--does
he drink--does he chew? Does he go to meeting on Sundays? What religious denomination does
he belong to? What are his politics? Does he use profane language? What time does he go to
bed--and what time does he get up? Wonder what he had for dinner to-day?" &c., &c., &c.

During my residence in Charlestown, where I lived three years, I became acquainted with the
celebrated editor and wit, Corporal Streeter, who was my next-door neighbor. I dwelt, by the
way, in an old-fashioned house situated on Wood street. Two ancient pear trees sadly waved
their branches in front of the house, and they are still there, unless some despoiling hand
has cut them down--which Heaven forbid! If ever I re-visit that place, I shall gaze with reverence
at the old house--for in it I passed some of the happiest days of my life. The antique edifice
I christened "The Hermitage." The squalling cats of that neighborhood afforded me a fine opportunity
for pistol practice.

At the end of three years, I had a slight "misunderstanding" with Mr. W----, the proprietor
of the Aurora, one of the most stupendously mean men it was ever my misfortune to encounter.
He was worthy of being the owner of the only newspaper in Charlestown, alias, "Hogtown." Having
civilly requested Mr. W---- to go to the devil at his earliest convenience, I left him and
his rookery in disgust, and shifted my quarters over to Boston.

Here I engaged largely in literary pursuits, and began to write a series of novels. These were
well received by the public, as every Bostonian will recollect.

In my next chapter, I shall tell the reader how a gentleman got into difficulties.

CHAPTER X

Six weeks in Leverett Street Jail.

A popular actor who was a personal friend of mine[M] took a farewell benefit at the National
Theatre. At his invitation, and just before the close of the evening's performances, I attempted
to enter the stage door for his purpose of seeing him in his dressing-room, as he intended
to sup with me and several friends. A half-drunken Irishman attached to the stage department
in some menial capacity, stopped me and insolently ordered me out. I treated the Greek, of
course, with the contempt which he merited, whereupon he called another overgrown bog-trotter
to his assistance, and the twain forthwith attacked me with great fury. Finding myself in danger
of receiving rather rough treatment, I drew a small pocket pistol and aimed at their shins,
being determined that one of them, at least, should hobble around upon crutches for a short
time. The cap on the pistol, however, refused to explode, and the two vagabonds immediately
caused me to be arrested, charging me with "assault and battery with the intent to kill!" I
was forthwith accommodated with a private apartment in Leverett Street jail, where I remained
six weeks, during which time I enjoyed myself tolerably well, being amply provided with good
dinners, not prison fare, but from the outside, candles, newspapers, books, writing materials,
&c. During my imprisonment, I wrote "The Gay Deceiver," and "Venus in Boston." My next door
neighbor was no less a personage than Dr. John W. Webster, who was afterwards executed for
the murder of Dr. Parkman. Webster was a great glutton, and thought of nothing but his stomach,
even up to the very hour of his death. On account of his "position in society," (!) every officer
of the prison became his waiter; and a certain ruffianly turnkey, who was in the habit of abusing
poor prisoners in the most outrageous manner, would fawn to the Doctor like a hungry dog to
a benevolent butcher.

Webster was very polite to me, frequently sending me books and newspapers--favors which I as
often reciprocated. He once sent me a jar of preserves, a box of sardines and a bottle of wine.
The latter gift I highly appreciated, wines and liquors of every kind being prohibited luxuries.
That night I became very happy and jovial; but I did not leave the house.

Dr. Webster was confident of being acquitted; but the result proved how terribly he was mistaken.
Probably, in the annals of criminal jurisprudence, there never was seen a more striking instance
of equal and exact justice, than was afforded by the trial, conviction and execution of John
W. Webster. Money, influential friends, able counsel, prayers, petitions, the prestige of a
scientific reputation failed to save him from that fate which he merited as well as if he had
been the most obscure individual in existence.

After six weeks imprisonment, I was brought to trial before Chief Justice Wells. I was defended
by a very tolerable lawyer, to whom I paid twenty-five dollars in consideration of his conversing
five minutes with a jury of my peers, the said jury consisting of twelve hungry individuals
who wanted to go out to dinner. When my legal adviser had made a few well-meaning remarks,
the jury retired to talk the matter over among themselves; and, after about fifteen minutes
absence, they returned and expressed their opinion that I was "not guilty." This opinion induced
me to believe that they were very sensible fellows indeed. Not for a moment did I think of
demanding a new trial; that would have been impertinent, as doubting the sagacity of the jury.
My two Irish prosecutors left the court-room in a rage; and two more chop-fallen disappointed
and mortified Greeks were never seen. The Judge took his departure, the spectators dispersed,
and I crossed the street and dined sumptuously at Parker's, with a large party of friends.

Very many of my Boston readers will remember a long series of articles which I wrote and published
about that time, in the columns of one of the newspapers, entitled "Mysteries of Leverett Street
Jail." In those sketches I gave the arrangements of the Jail, and its officers, "particular
fits;" and the manner in which the fellows writhed under the inflictions, was a caution to
petty tyrants generally. The startling revelations which I made created great excitement throughout
the whole community; and I have good reason to believe that those exposures were the means
of producing a far better state of affairs in the interior of the "stone jug."

