"A good many years ago," writes a correspondent from the White Sulphur Springs of Virginia,
"the statesman Henry Clay was here, enjoying a respite from his arduous government duties.
Being present at a grand reception where dancing was in progress, Mr. Clay wished to have played
the music for a 'Virginia Reel;' but, to his great surprise, he learned that the colored musicians
present did not know the necessary tune. Not to be cheated out of an indulgence in this, his
favorite dance, Mr. Clay took the band over to a corner of the room, and whistled the music
to them. In a very few minutes they 'caught' it perfectly; and, returning to their places,
the enterprising statesman and his friends enjoyed themselves in dancing the 'Virginia Reel'
just as though nothing unusual had occurred." At levees, at other public festive gatherings,
and at the receptions given in the homes of the wealthy, these orchestras were nearly always
present, adding to the enjoyments of the hour by discoursing the most delightful music. In
short, they were to be found everywhere, always receiving that warm welcome with which a music-loving
people ever greet the talented musician.

But, besides the associations of which I have just been speaking,--associations composed in
part of those who understood music as a science, and in part of those who did not,--there has
always been a goodly number of other persons of the same race, who, in spite of obstacles that
would seem to be insurmountable, have obtained a fair musical education, and who have exhibited
an artistic skill and general æsthetic love and taste that would be creditable to many of those
who have enjoyed far greater advantages for culture.

I shall now proceed to mention the names of only a few of such persons residing in some of
the principal towns and cities of the South. The list could be largely extended did time and
space permit.

Baltimore, Md., has quite a number of musical people well worthy of mention in this connection.
The following are members of the choir of St. Mary's Episcopal Church, of which the Rev. C.B.
Perry is rector:--

Mr. H.C. Bishop, general director; Mr. W.H. Bishop, precentor; J. Hopkins Johns (who has a
very pleasing voice); Mr. J. Taylor (a fine basso, who has been a member of a meritorious concert-troupe);
Mr. C.A. Johnson, organist; and Mr. George Barrett, tenor. Mr. Johnson has on several occasions
been the director of excellent public concerts in Baltimore and its vicinity, and is deserving
of much praise for his activity in promoting the music-loving spirit. The same may be said
of Mr. George Barrett.

Mr. Joseph Ockmey is organist of the Bethel (Methodist) Church.

The following are members of the Sharp-street Church choir:--

Mr. Simpson, leader; Mr. Dongee, organist; Miss Mary F. Kelly, soprano; Miss Emma Burgess, soprano.

Baltimore has an association of musicians called "The Monumental Cornet Band," of which Mr.
C.A. Johnson is the efficient leader.

Some time ago I found in the musical column of "The Boston Herald" of Sunday, July 9, 1876,
the following notice of another "Blind Tom:"--

     "A rival of 'Blind Tom' has been found at Blount Springs,
     Ala., in the person of James Harden, a colored boy from
     Baltimore. He plays the guitar, and sings the most difficult
     music, exceptionally well; and is also something of a
     composer. He has received no instruction, but is most
     emphatically a natural-born musician."

Louisville, Ky., shows its appreciation of music by organizing a society devoted to the latter,
numbering over a hundred persons. This fact has attracted the attention of Brainard's "Musical
World," which journal, in the number for October, 1877, alludes to it as a bright evidence
of the dawn of better times in the South.

