Reply Obj. 3: External goods, such as honors, riches and the like, as the Philosopher says
(Ethic. vii, 4), seem to be objects of choice in themselves indeed, but not as being necessary
for the maintenance of nature. Wherefore in reference to such things we speak of a person as
being continent or incontinent, not simply, but relatively, by adding that they are continent
or incontinent in regard to wealth, or honor and so forth. Hence Tully either understood continence
in a general sense, as including relative continence, or understood cupidity in a restricted
sense as denoting desire for pleasures of touch.

Reply Obj. 4: Venereal pleasures are more vehement than pleasures of the palate: wherefore
we are wont to speak of continence and incontinence in reference to venereal matters rather
than in reference to food; although according to the Philosopher they are applicable to both.

Reply Obj. 5: Continence is a good of the human reason: wherefore it regards those passions
which can be connatural to man. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 5) that "if a man were
to lay hold of a child with desire of eating him or of satisfying an unnatural passion whether
he follow up his desire or not, he is said to be continent [*See A. 4], not absolutely, but
relatively."

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 155, Art. 3]

Whether the Subject of Continence Is the Concupiscible Power?

Objection 1: It would seem that the subject of continence is the concupiscible power. For the
subject of a virtue should be proportionate to the virtue's matter. Now the matter of continence,
as stated (A. 2), is desires for the pleasures of touch, which pertain to the concupiscible
power. Therefore continence is in the concupiscible power.

Obj. 2: Further, "Opposites are referred to one same thing" [*Categ. viii]. But incontinence
is in the concupiscible, whose passions overcome reason, for Andronicus says [*De Affectibus]
that "incontinence is the evil inclination of the concupiscible, by following which it chooses
wicked pleasures in disobedience to reason." Therefore continence is likewise in the concupiscible.

Obj. 3: Further, the subject of a human virtue is either the reason, or the appetitive power,
which is divided into the will, the concupiscible and the irascible. Now continence is not
in the reason, for then it would be an intellectual virtue; nor is it in the will, since continence
is about the passions which are not in the will; nor again is it in the irascible, because
it is not properly about the passions of the irascible, as stated above (A. 2, ad 2). Therefore
it follows that it is in the concupiscible.

On the contrary, Every virtue residing in a certain power removes the evil act of that power.
But continence does not remove the evil act of the concupiscible: since "the continent man
has evil desires," according to the Philosopher (Ethic. vii, 9). Therefore continence is not
in the concupiscible power.

I answer that, Every virtue while residing in a subject, makes that subject have a different
disposition from that which it has while subjected to the opposite vice. Now the concupiscible
has the same disposition in one who is continent and in one who is incontinent, since in both
of them it breaks out into vehement evil desires. Wherefore it is manifest that continence
is not in the concupiscible as its subject. Again the reason has the same disposition in both,
since both the continent and the incontinent have right reason, and each of them, while undisturbed
by passion, purposes not to follow his unlawful desires. Now the primary difference between
them is to be found in their choice: since the continent man, though subject to vehement desires,
chooses not to follow them, because of his reason; whereas the incontinent man chooses to follow
them, although his reason forbids. Hence continence must needs reside in that power of the
soul, whose act it is to choose; and that is the will, as stated above (I-II, Q. 13, A. 1).

Reply Obj. 1: Continence has for its matter the desires for pleasures of touch, not as moderating
them (this belongs to temperance which is in the concupiscible), but its business with them
is to resist them. For this reason it must be in another power, since resistance is of one
thing against another.

Reply Obj. 2: The will stands between reason and the concupiscible, and may be moved by either.
In the continent man it is moved by the reason, in the incontinent man it is moved by the concupiscible.
Hence continence may be ascribed to the reason as to its first mover, and incontinence to the
concupiscible power: though both belong immediately to the will as their proper subject.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the passions are not in the will as their subject, yet it is in the
power of the will to resist them: thus it is that the will of the continent man resists desires.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 155, Art. 4]

Whether Continence Is Better Than Temperance?

Objection 1: It would seem that continence is better than temperance. Therefore no virtue can
be equalled to continence.

Obj. 2: Further, the greater the reward a virtue merits, the greater the virtue. Now continence
apparently merits the greater reward; for it is written (2 Tim. 2:5): "He . . . is not crowned,
except he strive lawfully," and the continent man, since he is subject to vehement evil desires,
strives more than the temperate man, in whom these things are not vehement. Therefore continence
is a greater virtue than temperance.

Obj. 3: Further, the will is a more excellent power than the concupiscible. But continence
is in the will, whereas temperance is in the concupiscible, as stated above (A. 3). Therefore
continence is a greater virtue than temperance.

On the contrary, Tully (De Invent. Rhet. ii, 54) and Andronicus [*De Affectibus] reckon continence
to be annexed to temperance, as to a principal virtue.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), continence has a twofold signification. In one way it
denotes cessation from all venereal pleasures; and if continence be taken in this sense, it
is greater than temperance considered absolutely, as may be gathered from what we said above
(Q. 152, A. 5) concerning the preeminence of virginity over chastity considered absolutely.
In another way continence may be taken as denoting the resistance of the reason to evil desires
when they are vehement in a man: and in this sense temperance is far greater than continence,
because the good of a virtue derives its praise from that which is in accord with reason. Now
the good of reason flourishes more in the temperate man than in the continent man, because
in the former even the sensitive appetite is obedient to reason, being tamed by reason so to
speak, whereas in the continent man the sensitive appetite strongly resists reason by its evil
desires. Hence continence is compared to temperance, as the imperfect to the perfect.

Reply Obj. 1: The passage quoted may be understood in two ways. First in reference to the sense
in which continence denotes abstinence from all things venereal: and thus it means that "no
price is worthy of a continent soul," in the genus of chastity; since not even the fruitfulness
of the flesh which is the purpose of marriage is equalled to the continence of virginity or
of widowhood, as stated above (Q. 152, AA. 4, 5). Secondly it may be understood in reference
to the general sense in which continence denotes any abstinence from things unlawful: and thus
it means that "no price is worthy of a continent soul," because its value is not measured with
gold or silver, which are appreciable according to weight.

Reply Obj. 2: The strength or weakness of concupiscence may proceed from two causes. For sometimes
it is owing to a bodily cause: because some people by their natural temperament are more prone
to concupiscence than others; and again opportunities for pleasure which inflame the concupiscence
are nearer to hand for some people than for others. Such like weakness of concupiscence diminishes
merit, whereas strength of concupiscence increases it. On the other hand, weakness or strength
of concupiscence arises from a praiseworthy spiritual cause, for instance the vehemence of
charity, or the strength of reason, as in the case of a temperate man. In this way weakness
of concupiscence, by reason of its cause, increases merit, whereas strength of concupiscence
diminishes it.

Reply Obj. 3: The will is more akin to the reason than the concupiscible power is. Wherefore
the good of reason--on account of which virtue is praised by the very fact that it reaches
not only to the will but also to the concupiscible power, as happens in the temperate man--is
shown to be greater than if it reach only to the will, as in the case of one who is continent.

QUESTION 156

OF INCONTINENCE (In Four Articles)

We must now consider incontinence: and under this head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether incontinence pertains to the soul or to the body?

(2) Whether incontinence is a sin?

(3) The comparison between incontinence and intemperance;

(4) Which is the worse, incontinence in anger, or incontinence in desire?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 156, Art. 1]

Whether Incontinence Pertains to the Soul or to the Body?

Objection 1: It would seem that incontinence pertains not to the soul but to the body. For
sexual diversity comes not from the soul but from the body. Now sexual diversity causes diversity
of incontinence: for the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 5) that women are not described either
as continent or as incontinent. Therefore incontinence pertains not to the soul but to the body.

Obj. 2: Further, that which pertains to the soul does not result from the temperament of the
body. But incontinence results from the bodily temperament: for the Philosopher says (Ethic.
vii, 7) that "it is especially people of a quick or choleric and atrabilious temper whose incontinence
is one of unbridled desire." Therefore incontinence regards the body.

Obj. 3: Further, victory concerns the victor rather than the vanquished. Now a man is said
to be incontinent, because "the flesh lusteth against the spirit," and overcomes it. Therefore
incontinence pertains to the flesh rather than to the soul.

On the contrary, Man differs from beast chiefly as regards the soul. Now they differ in respect
of continence and incontinence, for we ascribe neither continence nor incontinence to the beasts,
as the Philosopher states (Ethic. vii, 3). Therefore incontinence is chiefly on the part of
the soul.

