Jonah breathed slowly into the reeds, up and down the scale, testing the compass of the instrument.
It was full and rich, unlike any that she had heard in the streets.  Presently he struck into
a popular ballad from the music-hall, holding the organ to his mouth with the left hand.  With
his right he covered the pipes to control the volume of sound as a pianist uses the pedals.
When he had finished, Clara smiled in encouragement, with a secret feeling that he was making
himself ridiculous.  She looked across the water, wishing he would put the thing away and stop
this absurd exhibition.  But Jonah had warmed up to his work.  He was back in Cardigan Street
again, when the Push marched through the streets with him in the lead, playing tunes that he
had learned at the music-halls.

In five minutes Clara's uneasiness had vanished, and she was listening to the music with a
dreamy languor quite foreign to her usual composure.  Her mind was filled with the fantastic
splendour of the sunset; the fresh salt air had acted like a drug; and the sounds breathed
into the reeds made her nerves vibrate like strings.  Strange, lawless thoughts floated in
her mind.  The world was meant for love, and passionate sadness, and breaking hearts that healed
at the glance of an eye.  And as her ear followed the tune, her eyes were drawn with an irresistible
movement to the musician. She found him staring at her with a magnetic look in his eyes.

He was no longer ridiculous.  The large head, wedged beneath the shoulders, the projecting
hump, monstrous and inhuman, and the music breathed into the reeds set him apart as a sinister,
uncanny being. She frowned in an effort to think what the strange figure reminded her of, and
suddenly she remembered.  It was the god Pan, the goat-footed lord of rivers and woods, sitting
beside her, who blew into his pipes and stirred the blood of men and women to frenzies of joy
and fear. There was fear and exultation in her heart.  A pagan voluptuousness spread through
her limbs.  Jonah paused for a moment, and then broke into the pick of his repertory.  And
Clara listened, hypnotized by the sounds, her brain mechanically fitting the words to the tune:

  Come to me, sweet Marie, sweet Marie, come to me!
  Not because your face is fair, love, to see;
  But your soul, so pure and sweet,
  Makes my happiness complete,
  Makes me falter at your feet, sweet Marie.

The vulgar, insipid words rang as plainly in her ears as if a voice were singing them.  Jonah
stopped playing, and stared at her with a curious glitter in his eyes.  She felt, in a dazed,
dreamy fashion, that this was the hunchback's declaration of love.  The hurdy-gurdy tune and
the unsung words had acted like a spell.  For a space of seconds she gazed with a fixed look
at Jonah, waiting for him to move or speak.  She seemed to be slipping down a precipice without
the power or desire to resist.  Then, like a fit of giddiness, the sensation passed.  She stumbled
to her feet and ran wildly down the rocky path to the wharf where the ferry-boat, glittering
with electric lights, like a gigantic firefly, was waiting at the jetty.

CHAPTER 20

MRS PARTRIDGE MINDS THE SHOP

Chook caught the last tram home, and found Pinkey asleep in bed with a novelette in her hand.
She had fallen asleep reading it.  The noise of Chook's entry roused her, and she stared at
him, uncertain of the hour. Then, seeing him fully dressed, she decided that it was four o'clock
in the morning, and that he was trying to sneak off to Paddy's Market without her.  She was
awake in an instant, and her face flushed pink with anger as she jumped out of bed, indignant
at being deprived of her share of the unpleasant trip to the markets.  Three times a week she
nerved herself for that heartbreaking journey in the raw morning air, resolved never to let
Chook see her flinch from her duty.  As she started to dress herself with feverish haste, Chook
recovered enough from his astonishment to ask her where she was going.

"To Paddy's, of course," she replied fiercely.  "Yer sneaked off last week on yer own, an'
cum 'ome so knocked out that yer couldn't eat yer breakfast."

A cold shiver ran through Chook.  Her mind was affected, and in a flash he saw his wife taken
to the asylum and himself left desolate.  Then he understood, and burst into a roar.

"Git into bed again, Liz," he cried.  "Ye're walkin' in yer sleep."

"Wot's the time?" she asked, with a suspicious look.

"Five past twelve," said Chook, reluctantly.

"An' ye're only just come 'ome!  Wot d'ye mean by stoppin' out till this time of night?" she
cried, turning on him furiously, but secretly relieved, like a patient who finds the dentist
is out.

"The play was out late, an' we..." stammered Chook.

As he stammered, Pinkey caught sight of a rip in his sleeve, and looking at him intently, was
horrified to see his lip cut and bleeding. She gave a cry of terror and burst into tears.

"Yer never went to no play; yer've bin fightin'," she sobbed.

"No, I ain't, fair dinkum," cried Chook.  "I'll tell yer 'ow I come by this, if yer wait a minute."

"Yer never cut yer lip lookin' at the play; yer've gone back ter the Push, as Sarah always
said yer would."

"I'll screw Sarah's neck when I can spare the time," said Chook, savagely.

Chook, the old-time larrikin, had turned out a model husband, but, for years after his marriage,
Mrs Partridge had taken a delight in prophesying that he would soon tire of Pinkey's apron-strings
and return to the Push and the streets.  And now, although Waxy Collins and Joe Crutch were
in jail for sneak-thieving, their places taken by younger  and more vicious scum, Pinkey thought
instantly of the dread Push when Chook grew restive.

"No," said Chook, deciding to cut it short, "I tore me coat an' cut me lip gittin' away from
the Johns at Paddy Flynn's alley."

Pinkey turned sick with fear.  The two-up school was worse than the Push, and they were ruined.

"I knew it the moment I set eyes on yer.  Yer've been bettin' again, an' lost all yer money.
Yer've got nothing left for the markets, an' the landlord'll turn us out," she cried, seeing
herself already in the gutter.

"Yes, I lost a bit, but I pulled up, an' I'm a couple of dollars to the good," said Chook,
feeling in his pocket for some half-crowns.

"Well, give it to me," said Pinkey, "an' I'll go straight termorrer and pay ten shillings on
a machine."

"Wot would yer 'ave said if I'd won ten or fifteen quid?" asked Chook.

"I should 'ave said 'Buy Jack Ryan's 'orse an' cart, an' never go near a two-up school again',"
said Pinkey, thinking of the impossible.

"Well, I won the dollars, an' I'll do as yer say," cried Chook emptying his pockets on the
counterpane.

As Chook poured the heap of gold and silver on to the bed, Pinkey gasped, and turned deadly
white.  Chook thought she was going to faint.

"It's all right, Liz," he cried.  "I've 'ad a good win, an' we're set up fer life."

He was busy sorting the gold and silver into heaps, first putting aside his stake, two pounds
ten.  There  were fifteen pounds twelve shillings and sixpence left.  Pinkey stared in amazement.
It seemed incredible that so much money could belong to them.  And suddenly she thought, with
a pang of joy, that no longer would she need to nerve herself for the cruel journey to the
markets in the morning.  Chook would drive down in his own cart, and she would be waiting on
his return with a good breakfast.  They had gone up in the world like a rocket.

The marriage of Pinkey, three years ago, had affected Mrs Partridge like the loss of a limb.
For over two years she had been chained to the same house, in the same street, with the desire
but not the power to move. Only once had she managed to change her quarters with the aid of
William, and the result had been disastrous.  For the first time in his life William had lost
a day at Grimshaw's to move the furniture, and for six months he had brooded over the lost
time.  This last move had planted them in Botany Street, five minutes' walk from Chook's shop.
At first Mrs Partridge had fretted, finding little consolation in the new ham-and-beef shop
on Botany Road; and then, little by little, she had become attached to the neighbourhood. 
She had been surprised to find that entertainment came to her door unsought, in the form of
constant arrivals and departures among the neighbours.  And each of them was the beginning
or the end of a mystery, which she probed to the bottom with the aid of the postman, the baker,
the butcher, and the tradesmen who were left lamenting with their bills unpaid.  Never before
in her wanderings had she got so completely in touch with her surroundings.

But from habit she always talked of moving.  She could never pass an empty house without going
through it, sniffing the drains, and requesting the landlord to make certain improvements,
with the mania of women who haunt the shops with empty purses, pricing expensive materials.
Every week she announced to Chook and Pinkey that she had found the very house, if William
would take a day off to move.  But in her heart she had no desire to leave the neighbourhood.
It was an agreeable and daily diversion for her to run up to the shop, and prophesy ruin and
disaster to Chook and Pinkey for taking a shop that had beggared the last tenant, ignoring
the fact that Jack Ryan had converted his profits into beer. Chook's rough tongue made her
wince at times, but she refused to take offence for more than a day.  She had taken a fancy
to Chook the moment she had set eyes on him, and was sure Pinkey was responsible for his sudden
bursts of temper.  She thought to do him a service by dwelling on Pinkey's weak points, and
Chook showed his gratitude by scowling.  Pinkey, who had been a machinist in the factory, was
no hand with a needle, and Mrs Partridge commented on this in Chook's hearing.

"An' fancy 'er 'ardly able to sew on a button, which is very dangerous lyin' about on the floor,
as children will eat anythin', not knowin' the consequences," she cried.

Chook pointed out that there were no children in the house to eat stray buttons.

"An' thankful you ought to be for that," she cried.  "There's Mrs Brown's baby expectin' to
be waited  on 'and an' foot, an' thinks nothin' of wakin' 'er up in the night, cryin' its heart
out one minute, an' cooin' like a dove the next, though I don't 'old with keepin' birds in
the 'ouse as makes an awful mess, an' always the fear of a nasty nip through the bars of the
cage, which means a piece of rag tied round your finger."

Here she stopped for breath, and Chook turned aside the torrent of words by offering her some
vegetables, riddled with grubs, for the trouble of carrying them home.  She considered herself
one of Chook's best customers, having dealt off him since their first meeting.  Every market-day
she came to the shop, picked out everything that was damaged or bruised, and bought it at her
own price.  She often wished that Pinkey had married a grocer.

Chook had said nothing to her of his win at the two-up school, and she only heard of it at
the last moment through a neighbour.  She put on her hat, and just reached the shop in time
to see Chook drive up to the door in his own horse and cart.  Pinkey was standing there, radiant,
her dreams come true, already feeling that their fortunes were made. Mrs Partridge looked on
with a choking sensation in her throat, desiring nothing for herself, but angry with Fortune
for showering her gifts on others.  Then she stepped up briskly, and cried out:

"I 'eard all about yer luck, an' I sez to myself, 'it couldn't 'ave 'appened to a more deservin'
young feller.' You'll ride in yer carriage yet, mark my words."

She came nearer and stared at the mare, anxious to  find fault, but knowing nothing of the
points of a horse.  She decided to make friends with it, and rubbed its nose.  The animal,
giving her an affectionate look, furtively tried to bite her arm, and then threw back its head,
expecting the rap on the nose that always followed this attempt. Mrs Partridge trembled with
fear and rage.

"Well, I never!" she cried.  "The sly brute!  Looked at me like a 'uman being, an' then tried
to eat me, which I could never understand people preachin' about kindness to dumb animals,
an' 'orses takin' a delight in runnin' over people in the street every day."

"It's because they've got relations that makes 'em thankful animals are dumb," said Chook.

"Meaning me?" cried Mrs Partridge, smelling an insult.

"You?" said Chook, affecting surprise.  "I niver mind yous talkin'.  It goes in one ear an'
out of the other."

Mrs Partridge bounced out of the shop in a rage, but next day she came back to tell Pinkey
that she had found the very house in Surry Hills for a shilling a week less rent.  She stayed
long enough to frighten the life out of Pinkey by telling her that she had heard that Jack
Ryan was well rid of the horse, because it had a habit of bolting and breaking the driver's
neck.  Chook found Pinkey trembling for his safety, and determined to put a stop to these annoyances.
He disappeared for a whole day, and when Pinkey wanted to know where he had been, he told her
to wait and see.  They nearly quarrelled.  But the next morning he gave her a surprise.  After
breakfast he announced that he was going to take her to the Druids' picnic in his own cart,
and that Mrs Partridge had consented to mind the shop in their absence.

When Chook asked Mrs Partridge to mind the shop for the day, she jumped at the idea.  She felt
that she had a gift for business which she had wasted by not marrying the greengrocer; and
now, with the shop to herself, she would show them how to deal with the customers, and find
time in between to run her eye through Pinkey's boxes.  She, too, would have a holiday after
her own heart.  She decided to wear her best skirt and blouse, to keep the customers in their
place and remind them that she was independent of their favours.  She found everything ready
on her arrival.  The price of every vegetable was freshly painted on the window by Chook in
white letters, and there were five shillings in small change in the till.  Lunch was set for
her on the kitchen table, a sight to make the mouth water, for Chook, remembering the days
of his courting, had ransacked the ham-and-beef shop for dainties--sheep's trotters, brawn,
pig's cheek, ham-and-chicken sausage, and a bottle of mixed pickles.  Nothing was wanting.
As Chook drove off with Pinkey, she waved her hand to them, and then, surveying the street
with the air of a proprietor, entered the shop and took possession.

They were going to Sir Joseph Banks's for the picnic; but, to Pinkey's surprise, the cart turned
into Botany Street and pulled up in front of Sarah's cottage.

"Wotcher stoppin' 'ere for?" she inquired.

"'Cause we're goin' ter git out," said Chook, with a grin.

"Git out?  Wot for?  There's nobody at 'ome, Dad's at work."

"I know; that's w'y I came," said Chook, tying the reins to the seat. "Git down, Liz; yer've
got a 'ard day in front of yer."

"'Ard day?  Wotcher mean?" cried Pinkey, suspiciously.

"We're goin' ter move Sarah's furniture to the new 'ouse she found in Surry Hills," replied Chook.

"She never took no 'ouse," said Pinkey.

"No, I took it yesterday in 'er name," said Chook, grinning at Pinkey's perplexed frown.  "I
wanted ter give 'er a pleasant surprise fer 'er birthday."

"Wot about the picnic?" exclaimed Pinkey, suddenly.

"There ain't no picnic," said Chook.  "It's next Monday; the date must 'ave slipped me mind."

"An' yer mean ter move 'er furniture in without 'er knowin'?"

"That's the dart," said Chook, with a vicious smile.  "If Sarah's tongue don't git a change
of air, I'll git three months fer murder.  So 'urry up, Liz, an' put this apron over yer skirt."

The impudence of Chook's plan took her breath away, but when he insisted that there was no
other way of getting rid of Mrs Partridge, she consented, with the feeling that she was taking
part in a burglary. Chook took the key from under the flower-pot and went in.  They found the
place like a pigsty, for in the excitement of dressing for her day behind the counter, Sarah
had wasted no time in  making the bed or washing up, and Pinkey, trained under the watchful
eye of Chook's mother, stood aghast.  She declared that nothing could be done till that mess
was cleared away, and tucked up her sleeves.

The appearance of the cart had roused the neighbours' curiosity, and Chook engaged them in
conversation over the back fence.  He explained that Mrs Partridge had begged him to come down
and move her furniture while she minded the shop.  There was a general sigh of relief. Nothing
had escaped her eye or tongue.  Mrs King, who was supposed to be temperance, did wonders with
the bottle under her apron, but was caught.  Then she found out that Mrs Robinson's brother,
who was supposed to be doing well in the country, was really doin' seven years. Chook refused
half a dozen offers of help before Pinkey had finished washing up.

As Chook lacked the professional skill of Jimmy the van-man, Pinkey was obliged to make two
loads of the furniture; but by twelve o'clock the last stick was on the cart, and Pinkey, sitting
beside her husband on a plank, carried the kerosene lamp in her lap to prevent breakage.  By
sunset everything was in its place, and Chook and Pinkey, aching in every joint, locked the
door and drove home.

Meanwhile, Mrs Partridge had spent a pleasant day conducting Chook's business on new lines.
She had always suspected that she had a gift for business, and here was an opportunity to prove
it.  The first customer was a child, sent for three penn'orth of potatoes.  As children are
naturally careless, Mrs Partridge saw here an excellent opportunity for weeding out the stock,
and went to a lot of trouble in picking out the small and damaged tubers, reserving the best
for customers who came to choose for themselves.  Five minutes later she was exchanging them
for the largest in the sack under the direction of an infuriated mother.  This flustered her
slightly, and when Mrs Green arrived, complaining of rheumatic twinges in her leg, she decided
to try Pinkey's sympathetic manner.

"Ah, if anybody knows what rheumatism is, I do," she cried.  "For years I suffered cruelly,
an' then I was persuaded to carry a new pertater in me pocket, an' I've never 'ad ache or pain
since; though gettin' cured, to my mind, depends on the sort of life you've led."

Mrs Green, a woman with a past, flushed heavily.

"'Oo are yer slingin' off at?" she cried.  "You and yer new pertater. I'd smack yer face for
two pins," and she walked out of the shop.

This made Mrs Partridge careful, and she served the next customers in an amazing silence. 
Then she dined royally on the pick of the ham-and-beef shop, and settled down for the afternoon.
But she recovered her tongue when Mrs Paterson wanted some lettuce for a salad.

"Which I could never understand people eatin' salads, as I shall always consider bad for the
stomach, an' descendin' to the lower animals," she cried.  "Nothing could make me believe I
was meant to eat vegetables raw when I can 'ave them boiled an' strained for 'alf an 'our."

In her eagerness to convert Mrs Paterson to her views, she forgot to charge for the lettuce.
When  Chook and Pinkey arrived, she had partially destroyed the business, and was regretting
that she had been too delicate to marry the greengrocer.  She showed Chook the till bulging
with copper and silver.

"Yer've done us proud," cried Chook, staring.

Mrs Partridge sorted out ten shillings from the heap.

"That's Mrs Robins's account," she remarked.

"Wot made 'er pay?" inquired Pinkey, suspiciously.  "Yer didn't go an' ask 'er for it, did yer?"

"Not likely," said Mrs Partridge; "but when she complained of the peas bein' eighteenpence
a peck, I pointed out that if she considered nothing too dear for 'er back, she should consider
nothing too dear for 'er stomach, an' she ran 'ome to fetch this money an' nearly threw it
in my face."

"Me best customer," cried Pinkey in dismay.  "She pays at the end of the month like clockwork."

Mrs Partridge stared at the heap of silver, and changed the subject.

"It 'ud give me the creeps to sleep in the 'ouse with all that money," she remarked, "after
readin' in the paper as 'ow burglars are passionate fond of silver, an' 'avin' no reg'lar 'ours
for callin', like to drop in when least expected." She noted with satisfaction that Pinkey
changed colour, and shook the creases out of her skirt.  "Well, I must be goin'," she added.
"I never like to keep William waitin' for 'is tea."

A cold wave swept over Chook.  He had clean forgotten William, who would go home to Botany
Street and find an empty house.  Pinkey dived into the bedroom, and left Chook to face it out.

"'Ere's yer key," he said helplessly, to make a beginning.

"This is my key," said Mrs Partridge, feeling in her pocket, "an' the other one is under the
flower-pot for William, if I'm out.  I dunno what you mean."

"I mean this is the key of yer new 'ouse in Surry Hills," said Chook, fumbling hopelessly with
the piece of iron.

"You've bin drinkin', an' the beer's gone to yer 'ead," said Mrs Partridge, unwilling to take
offence.

"I tell yer I'm as dry as a bone," cried Chook, losing patience.

"Yer think yer live in Botany Street, but yer don't.  Yer live in Foveaux Street, an' this
is the key of the 'ouse."

"I think I live in Botany Street, but I've moved to Foveaux Street," repeated Mrs Partridge,
but the words conveyed no meaning to her mind.

She came closer to Chook.  He looked and smelt sober, and suddenly a horrid suspicion ran through
her mind that her brain was softening. She was older than they thought, for she had taken five
years off her age when she had married William.  In an agony of fear she searched her memory
for the events of the past month, trying to recall any symptom of illness that should have
warned her.  She could remember nothing, and turned to Chook with a wild fear in her eyes.
Something must be wrong with him.

"Can you understand what you're sayin'?" she asked.

"Yes," said Chook, anxious to get it over.  "Yer lived in Botany Street this morning, but yer
moved to-day, an' now yer live in Foveaux Street in the 'ouse yer picked on Monday."

"Do you expect me to believe that?" cried Mrs Partridge.

"No," said Chook; "but yer will w'en yer go 'ome an' find your 'ouse empty."

"An' who moved me?"

"Me an' Liz," said Chook.  "The picnic wasn't till next week, an' Liz an' me thought we'd give
yer a surprise."

For the first time in her life Mrs Partridge was speechless.  She saw that she had been tricked
shamefully.  They had ransacked her house, and laid bare all the secrets of her little luxuries.
She quailed as she remembered what they had found in the cupboard and the bottom drawer of
the wardrobe. Never again could she face Chook and Pinkey, knowing what they did, and take
her pickings of the shop.  Suddenly she recovered her tongue, and turned on Chook, transformed
with rage.

"William will break every bone in yer body when 'e 'ears what you've done," she cried, "mark
my words.  An' in case I never see yer again, let me tell yer somethin' that's been on my mind
ever since I first met you.  If that ginger-headed cat 'idin' behind the bedroom door 'adn't
married yer, nobody else would, for you're that ugly it 'ud pay yer to grow whiskers an' 'ide
yer face."

And with this parting shot she marched out of the shop and disappeared in the darkness.

CHAPTER 21

DAD WEEPS ON A TOMBSTONE

The scene at Cremorne Point had suddenly reminded Clara that she was playing with fire.  In
the beginning she had consented to these meetings to humour the parent of her best pupil, and
gradually she had drifted into an intimacy with Jonah without the courage to end it.  To her
fastidious taste his physical deformity and the flavour of Cardigan Street that still clung
about his speech and manners put him out of court as a possible lover; but it had gratified
her pride to discover that he was in love with her, and as he never expressed himself more
plainly than by furtive glances and sudden inflections in his voice, she felt sure of her power
to keep him at a distance.

These outings, indeed, had nearly fallen through, when Jonah, fumbling for words and afraid
to say what was on his mind, had touched on a detail of his business.  To his surprise Clara
caught fire like straw, fascinated at being shown the inner workings of the "Silver Shoe".
And from that time a curious attitude had grown between them.  Jonah talked of his business,
and stared at Clara as she listened, forgetful of him, her mind absorbed in details of profit
and loss.  She found the position easy to maintain, for Jonah, catching at straws, demanded
no positive encouragement. A chance word or look from her was rich matter for a week's thought,
twisted and turned in his mind till it meant all he desired.

She saw clearly and coldly that Jonah had placed her on a pedestal, and she determined never
to step down of her own accord, recognizing with the instinct for business that had surprised
Jonah that she would lose more than she would gain.  And yet the sudden glimpse of passion
in Jonah had whetted her appetite for more.  It had recalled the days of her engagement with
a singular bitterness and pleasure.  She thought with a hateful persistence of her first love,
the man who had accustomed her to admiration and then shuffled out of the engagement, forced
by the attitude of his relatives to her father.  But for weeks after the scene at Cremorne
Jonah had retired within himself terrified lest he should alarm her and put an end to their
outings.  So far she had timed their meetings for the daylight out of prudence, but, pricked
on by curiosity, she had begun to dally on the return journey, desiring and fearing some token
of his adoration.

Meanwhile Jonah swung like a pendulum between hope and despair.  He dimly suspected that a
bolder man would have had his declaration out and done with long ago, and he waited for a favourable
opportunity; but it came and went, and left him speechless.  He had accepted Ada as the typical
woman, and now found himself as much at sea as if he had discovered a new species, for he never
suspected that any other woman had it in her power, given a favourable opportunity, to lead
him to this new world of sensation.  Women had always been shy of him, and with his abnormal
shape and his absorption in business it had been easy for him to miss what lay beneath the
surface. But for the accident of his meeting with Clara, his temperament would have carried
him through life, unconscious of love from his own experience and regarding it as a fable of
women and poets.

Jonah never spent money willingly, except where Ray was concerned, and Clara in their first
meetings had been surprised and chilled by his anxiety to get the value of his money.  He had
informed her, bluntly, that money was not made by spending it; but for some months he had been
surprised by a desire to spend his money to adorn and beautify this woman.  Clara, however,
maintaining her independence with a wary eye, had refused to take presents from him.  He had
become more civilized and more human under the weight of his generous emotions, but they could
find no outlet.

It was the affair of Hans Paasch that opened his eye to the power for good that she exercised
over him.  When his shop had closed for want of customers, Paasch found that his failing eyesight
and methodical slowness barred him from competing with younger and quicker men, and, his mind
weakened and bewildered by disaster, he had turned for help to his first and only love, the
violin.  For some years he had taught a few pupils who were too poor to pay the fees of the
professional teachers, and, persuaded that pupils would flock to him if he gave his whole time
to it he took a room and set up as a teacher.  In six months he had to choose between starvation
by inches or playing dance music in Bob Fenner's hall for fifteen shillings a week.  For a
while he endured this, playing popular airs that he hated and despised for the larrikins whom
he hated and feared, a nightly butt and target for their coarse jests.  Then he preferred starvation,
and found himself in the gutter with the clothes he stood up in and his fiddle.  He had joined
the army of mendicant musicians, who scrape a tune in front of hotels and shops, living on
charity thinly veiled.

They had passed him one night on their return from Mosman, playing in front of a public-house
to an audience of three loafers.  The streets had soon dragged him to their level.  Unkempt
and half starved, he wore the look of the vagrant who sleeps in his clothes for want of bedding.
Grown childish in his distress, he had forgotten his lifelong habits of neatness and precision,
going to pieces like a man who takes to drink.

Clara, who knew his history, was horrified at the sight.  She thought he lived comfortably
on a crust of bread by giving lessons.  Jonah turned sulky when she reproached him.

"I don't see 'ow I'm ter blame for this any more'n if 'e'd come to the gutter through drink.
It was a fair go on the Road, an' if I beat 'im an' the others, it was because I was a better
man at the game.  I spent nearly all my money in that little shanty where I started, an' 'im
an' the others looked on an' 'oped I'd starve.  Yer talk about me bein' cruel an' callous.
It's the game that's cruel, not me.  I  knocked 'im out all right, but wot 'ud be the use of
knockin' 'im down with one 'and an' pickin' 'im up with the other?"

"You say yourself that he took you off the streets, and gave you a living."

"So 'e did, but 'e got 'is money's worth out of me.  I did the work of a man, an' saved 'im
pounds for years.  Yer wouldn't 'ave such a sentimental way of lookin' at things if yer'd been
a steet-arab, sellin' newspapers, an' no one ter make it 'is business whether yer lived or
starved."

"But surely you can't see him in that condition without feeling sorry for him?"

"Oh yes, I can; 'e's no friend of mine.  'E told everybody on the Road that I went shares with
the Devil," said Jonah, with an uneasy grin. "'Ere, I'll show yer wot 'e thinks of me."

He felt in his pocket for a coin, and crossed the street.  Paasch had finished his piece, and
putting his fiddle under his arm, turned to the loafers with a beseeching air.  They looked
the other way and discussed the weather.  Then Jonah stepped up to him and thrust the coin
into his hand.  Paasch, feeling something unaccustomed in his fingers, held it up to the light.
It was a sovereign, and he blinked in wonder at the coin then at the giver, convinced that
it was a trick.  Then he recognized Jonah, and a look of passionate fear and anger convulsed
his features. He threw down the coin as if it had burnt him, crying:

"No, I vill not take your cursed moneys.  Give me back mine shop and mine business that you
stole from me.  You are a rich man and ride in your carriage, and I am the beggar, but I would
not change with you. The great gods shall mock at you.  Money you shall have in plenty while
I starve, but never your heart's desire, for like a dog did you bite the hand that fed you."

Suddenly his utterance was choked by a violent fit of coughing, and he stared at Jonah, crazed
with hate and prophetic fury.  A crowd began to gather, and Jonah, afraid of being recognized,
walked rapidly away.

"Now yer can see fer yerself," he cried, sullenly.

"Yes, I see," said Clara, strangely excited; "and I think you would be as cruel with a woman
as you are with a man."

"I've given yer no cause ter say that," protested Jonah.

"Perhaps not," said Clara; "but that man won't last through the winter unless he's cared for.
And if he dies, his blood will be on your head, and your luck will turn.  His crazy talk made
me shiver.  Promise me to do something for him."

"Ye're talkin' like a novelette," said Jonah, roughly.

But Paasch's words had struck a superstitious chord in Jonah, and he went out of his way to
find a plan for relieving the old man without showing his hand.  He consulted his solicitors,
and then an advertisement in the morning papers offered a reward to anyone giving the whereabouts
of Hans Paasch, who left Hassloch in Bavaria in 1860, and who would hear of something to his
advantage by calling on Harris & Harris, solicitors. A month later Jonah held a receipt for
twelve pounds ten, signed by Hans Paasch, the first instalment of an annuity of fifty pounds
a year miraculously left him by a distant cousin in Germany.

He showed this to Clara while they were crossing in the boat to Mosman. She listened to him
in silence.  Then a flush coloured her cheeks.

"You'll never regret that," she said; "it's the best day's work you ever did."

"I 'ope I'll never regret anythin' that gives you pleasure," said Jonah, feeling very noble
and generous, and surprised at the ease with which he turned a compliment.

They had the Point to themselves, as usual, and Clara went to the edge of the rocks to see
what ships had come and gone during the week, trying to identify one that she had read about
in the papers.  Jonah watched her in silence, marking every detail of her tall figure with
a curious sense of possession that years of intimacy had never given him with Ada.  And yet
she kept him at a distance with a skill that exasperated him and provoked his admiration. 
One day when he had held her hand a moment too long, she had withdrawn it with an explanation
that sounded like an apology. She explained that from a child she had been unable to endure
the touch of another person; that she always preferred to walk rather than ride in a crowded
bus or tram because bodily contact with others set her nerves on edge.  It was a nervous affection,
she explained, inherited from her mother.  Jonah had his own opinion of this malady, but he
admitted to himself that she would never enter a crowd or a crush.

The result of her pleading for Paasch had put her  in a high good humour. It was the first
certain proof of her power over Jonah, and she chattered gaily.  She had risen in her own esteem.
But presently, to her surprise, Jonah took some papers from his pocket and frowned over them.

"It's very impolite to read in other people's company," she remarked, with a sudden coolness.

"I beg yer pardon," said Jonah, starting suddenly, as if a whip had touched him.  She never
failed to reprove him for any lapse in manners, and Jonah winced without resentment.

"I thought this might interest yer," he continued.  "I'm puttin' Steel in as manager at last,
an' this is the agreement."

"Who advised you to do that?" said Clara, with an angry flush.

"Well, Johnson's been complainin' of overwork fer some time, but Miss Giltinan decided me.
She's very keen on me openin' up branches in the suburbs."

"You place great weight on Miss Giltinan's opinion," said Clara, jealously.

"Ter tell the truth, I do," said Jonah.  "Next ter yerself, she's got the best 'ead fer business
of any woman I know."

"I don't agree with it at all," said Clara.  "You're the brains of the "Silver Shoe", and another
man's ideas will clash with yours."

"No fear!" said Jonah.  "I've got 'im tied down in black and white by my solicitors."

Clara ran her eye over the typewritten document, reading some of the items aloud.

"'Turn over the stock three times a year'!  What  does that mean?" And she listened while Jonah
explained, the position of pupil and tutor suddenly reversed.

"'Ten and a half per cent bonus, in addition to his salary, if he shows an increase on last
year's sales.'"

"'Net profits on the departments not to exceed twenty-five per cent.,'" read Clara in amazement.
"Why, I should have thought the more profit he made, the better for you."

"No fear," said Jonah, with a grin; "I can't 'ave a man puttin' up the price of the Silver
Shoe with his eye on his bonus."

Then a long discussion followed that lasted till nightfall.  As the night promised to be fine,
Jonah persuaded her to take tea at a dilapidated refreshment-room, halfway to the jetty, and
they continued the discussion over cups of discoloured water and stale cakes.  When they reached
the Point again the moon was rising clear in the sky, and they sat and watched in silence the
gradual illumination of the harbour.  The wind had dropped, and tiny ripples alone broke the
surface of the water.  On the opposite shore the beaches lay obscured in the faint light of
the moon, growing momently stronger, the land and water melted and confounded together in the
grey light.  The lesser stars fled at the slow approach of the moon, and in an hour she floated
alone in the sky, save for the larger planets, Hooding the deep abysses of the night with a
gleam of silver, tender and caressing that softened the angles and blotted details in brooding
shadows.

Overhead curved the arch of night, a deep, flawless  blue with velvety depths, pale and diluted
with light as it touched the skyline.  On the right, in the farther distance, Circular Quay
flashed with the gleam of electric arcs, each contracted into a star of four points.  And they
glittered on the waterline like clustered gems without visible setting. A fainter glow marked
the packed suburbs of the east; and then the lamps, flung like jewels in the night, picked
out the line of shore to Rose Bay and the Heads.

Ferry-boats were crossing the harbour, jewelled and glittering with electric bulbs, moving
in the distance without visible effort with the motion of swans, the throb of engines and the
swirl of water lost in the distance.  It was a symphony in light, each detached gleam on the
sombre shore hanging

  Like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear.

Between the moon and the eye the water lay like a sheet of frosted glass; elsewhere the water
rippled without life or colour, treacherous and menacing in the night.

Jonah turned and looked at the woman beside him.  They were alone on the rocky headland, the
city and the world of men seemed remote and unreal, cut off by the silvery light and the brooding
shadows.  It dawned slowly on him that his relations with this woman were independent of time
and space.  Of all things visible, it was she alone that mattered.  Often enough he had missed
his cue, but now, as if answering a question, he began speaking softly, as if he were talking
to himself:

"Clara!--Clara Grimes!--Clara!  I've wanted ter say that out aloud fer months, but I've never
found the place ter say it in.  It sounds quite natural 'ere.  Yer know that I love yer--I've
seen it in yer face, but yer don't know that you're the first woman I ever wanted.  No, yer
needn't run away.  I'm afraid ter touch yer, an' yer know it.  Yer thought because I was married
that I knew all about women.  Why, I didn't know what women were made for till I met you. 
I thought w'en I 'ad the shop an' my boy that I had everythin' I wanted, but the old woman
was right.  There's a lot more in this world than I ever dreamt of.  Seein' you opened my eyes.
An' now I want yer altogether.  I want ter see yer face every 'our of the day, an' tell yer
whatever comes into my mind.  I spend 'ours talkin' to yer w'en I'm by myself."

"It's only my right," he went on, with increased energy.  "I'm a man in spite of my shape,
an' I only ask fer what I'm entitled to.  I can see that other men 'ave been gittin' these
things without me knowin' it.  I used ter grin at Chook, but I was the fool.  I had everythin'
that I could see that was worth 'avin', an' somehow I wasn't satisfied.  I never could see
much in this life.  I often wondered what it was all about.  But now I understand.  What's
this for," and he indicated the dreamy peaceful scene with a sweep of his hand, "if it only
leaves yer starin' and wonderin'? I know now.  It's ter make me think about yer an' want yer.
Well, yer've made a man of me, an' it's up ter yous ter make the best of me." He broke off
with a short laugh.  "P'raps this sound funny ter you.  I've 'eard old women at the Salvos'
meetings talk like this, tellin' of the wonderful things they found out w'en they got converted."

Clara had listened in silence, with an intent, curious expression on her face.  Jonah's words
were like balm to her pride, lacerated three years ago by her broken engagement.  And she listened,
immensely pleased and a little afraid, like a mischievous child that has set fire to the curtains.
Jonah's face was turned to her, and as she looked at him her curiosity was changed to awe at
the sight of passion on fire. She thought of the crazy fiddler's words, and felt in herself
an infinite sadness, for she knew that Jonah would never gain his heart's desire.

"I've 'ad my say," he continued, "an' now I'll talk sense.  You're a grown woman, an' yer know
what all this means.  I can give yer anythin' yer like: a house an' servants; everythin' yer
want.  What do yer say?"

Clara had gone white to the lips.  It had come at last, and the "Silver Shoe" was within her
reach, but the gift was incomplete.  She must decline it, and take her chances for the future.

"Not quite everything, Joe," she replied gently, afraid of wounding him. "Ever since I was
a girl I've had something to be ashamed of through no fault of my own--my drunken father, the
street we live in, our genteel poverty; and now, when I seem to have missed all my chances,
you come along, and offer me everything I want with the main thing left out.  Oh, I know those
cottages where the husband is a stranger, and the neighbours watch them behind the curtains,
and pump the servant over the back fence! I'm too proud for that sort of thing. Oh, what a
rotten world this is!" she cried passionately, and burst into a storm of weeping.  It was the
most natural action of her life.

Jonah sat and stared at the lights of the Quay, dismayed by her tears but relieved in his mind.
He had spoken at last; already he was framing fresh arguments to persuade her.  Presently she
dried her eyes and looked at him with the ghost of a smile.  Then began a discussion which
threatened to last all night, neither of them giving way from the position they had taken up,
neither yielding an inch to the other's entreaties.  Suddenly Jonah looked at his watch with
an exclamation. It was nearly ten.  In the heat of argument they had forgotten the lapse of
time.  They scrambled over boulders and through the lantana bushes down to the path, and just
caught the boat.

When they reached the Quay they were surprised again by the splendour of the night.  The moon,
just past the full, flooded the streets with white light that left deep shadows between the
buildings like a charcoal drawing. They took a tram to the Haymarket, as they were afraid of
being recognized in the Waterloo cars, and reached Regent Street after eleven.  The hotels
had disgorged their customers, who were talking loudly in groups on the footpath or lurching
homeward with uneven steps.  Jonah was explaining that he must see Clara all the way home on
account of the lateness of the hour, when he was astonished to hear someone sobbing in the
monumental mason's yard as if his heart would break.  He turned and looked.  The headstones
and white marble crosses stood in rows with a faint resemblance to a graveyard; the moonlight
fell clear and cold on these monuments awaiting a purchaser. Some, already sold, were lettered
in black with the name of the departed.  Jonah and Clara stared, puzzled by the noise, when
they saw an old man in the rear of the yard in a top hat and a frock coat, clinging to a marble
cross.  He lurched round, and instantly Clara, with a gasp of amazement and shame, recognized
her father.

She moved into the shadows of a house, humiliated to her soul by this exhibition; but Jonah
laughed, in spite of himself, at the figure cut by Dad among the ready-made monuments.  As
he laughed, Dad caught sight of him, and clinging to a marble angel with one arm for support,
beckoned wildly with the other.

"Come here--come here," he cried between his sobs.  "I'm all alone with the dead, and nobody
to shed a tear 'cep' meself.  Shame on you, shame on you," he cried, raising his voice in bitter
grief, "to pass the poor fellows in their graves without sheddin' tear!"

He stopped and stared with drunken gravity at the name on the nearest tombstone, trying to
read the words which danced before his eyes in the clear light.  Jonah saw them plainly.

  SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF
  SARAH JAMES,
  Aged Eighty-five.

A fresh burst of grief announced that Dad had deciphered the lettering.

"Sam!" he cried bitterly.  "Me old fren' Sam!  To think of bringing him here without letting
me know!  The besh fren' I ever had."

Here sobs choked his utterance.  He stooped and examined the shining marble slab again, lurching
from one side to the other with incessant motion.

"An' not a flowersh onsh grave!" he cried.  "Sam was awf'ly fond flowersh."

"Get away 'ome, or the Johns'll pinch yer," said Jonah.

Dad stopped and stared at him with a glimmering of reason in his fuddled brain.

"I know yoush," he cried, with a cunning leer.  "An' I know your fren' there.  She isn't yer
missis.  She never is, y' know.  Naughty boy!" he cried, wagging his finger at Jonah; "but
I wont split on pal."

That reminded him of the deceased Sam, and he turned again to the monument.

"Goo'bye, Sam," he cried suddenly, under the impression that he had been to a funeral.  "I've
paid me respecks to an ol' fren', an' now we'll both sleep in peace."

"Come away and leave him," whispered Clara, trembling with disgust and mortification.

"No fear!" said Jonah.  "The Johns down 'ere don't know 'im, an' they'll lumber 'im.  You walk
on ahead, an' I'll steer 'im 'ome."

He looked round; there was not a cab to be seen.

He led Dad out of the stonemason's yard with difficulty, as he wanted to wait for the mourning
coaches.  Then, opposite the mortuary, he remembered his little present for the Duchess, and
insisted on going back.

"Wheresh my lil' present for Duchess?" he wailed.  "Can't go 'ome without lil' present."

Jonah was in despair.  At last he rolled his handkerchief into a ball and thrust it into Dad's
hand.

Then Dad, relieved and happy, cast Jonah off, and stood for a moment like the Leaning Tower
of Pisa.  Jonah watched anxiously, expecting him to fall, but all at once, with a forward lurch
Dad broke into a run, safe on his feet as a spinning top.  Jonah had forgotten Dad's run, famous
throughout all Waterloo, Redfern, and Alexandria.

CHAPTER 22

A FATAL ACCIDENT

As Clara crossed the tunnel at Cleveland Street, she found that she had a few minutes to spare,
and stopped to admire the Silver Shoe from the opposite footpath.  Triumphant and colossal,
treading the air securely above the shop, the glittering shoe dominated the street with the
insolence of success.  More than once it had figured in her dreams, endowed with the fantastic
powers of Aaron's rod, swallowing its rivals at a gulp or slowly crushing the life out of the
bruised limbs.

Her eye travelled to the shop below, with its huge plate-glass windows framed in brass, packed
with boots set at every angle to catch the eye. The array of shining brass rods and glass stands,
the gaudy ticket on each pair of boots with the shillings marked in enormous red figures and
the pence faintly outlined beside them, pleased her eye like a picture. To-day the silver lettering
was covered with narrow posters announcing that Jonah's red-letter sale was to begin to-morrow.
And as she stared at this huge machine for coining money, she remembered, with a sudden disdain,
her home with its atmosphere of decay and genteel poverty.  She was conscious of some change
in herself.  The slight sense of physical repugnance to the hunchback had vanished since his
declaration.  He and his shop stood for power and success.  What else mattered?

Her spirits drooped suddenly as she remembered the obstacle that lay between her and the pride
of openly sharing the triumphs of the Silver Shoe as she already shared its secrets.  She thought
with dismay of the furtive meetings drawn out for years without hope of relief unless the impossible
happened.  A watched pot never boils, and Ada was a young woman.

She crossed the street and entered the shop, her eye scouting for Jonah as she walked to the
foot of the stairs, for since the appointment of a manager, Jonah had found time to slip up
to the room after the lesson to ask her to play for him, on the plea that the piano was spoiling
for want of use.  And he waited impatiently for these stolen moments, with a secret desire
to see her beneath his roof in a domestic setting that gave him a keener sense of intimacy
than the swish of waters and wide spaces of sea and sky.  But to-day she looked in vain, and
Miss Giltinan, seeing the swift look of inquiry, stepped up to her.

"Mr Jones was called away suddenly over some arrangements for our sale that opens to-morrow.
He left word with me that he'd be back as soon as possible," she said.

Clara thanked her, and flushed slightly.  It seemed as if Jonah were excusing himself in public
for missing an appointment.  As she went up the stairs one shopman winked at the other and
came across with a pair of hobnailed boots in his hand.

"This'll never do," he whispered, "the boss missin' his lesson.  He'll get behind in his practice."

"Wotcher givin' us?" replied the other.  "The boss don't take lessons; it's the kid."

"Of course he don't," said the other with a leer.  "He learns a lot here by lookin' on, an'
she tells him the rest at Mosman in the pale moonlight. If I won a sweep, I'd take a few lessons
meself an' cut him out."

He became aware that Miss Giltinan was standing behind him, and raised his voice.

"I was tellin' Harris that the price of these bluchers ought to be marked down; they're beginning
to sweat," he explained, turning to Miss Giltinan and showing her some small spots like treacle
on the uppers.

"Mr Jones doesn't pay you good money to talk behind his back; and if you take the trouble to
look at the tag, you'll see those boots have already been marked down," she replied indignantly.

The shopman slinked away without a word.  Miss Giltinan was annoyed. It was not the first time
that she had heard these scandalous rumours, for the shop was alive with whispers, some professing
to know every detail of the meetings between Jonah and the music-teacher, naming to a minute
the boat they caught on their return from Mosman.  Jonah had contrived to avoid the faces that
were familiar to him, but he had forgotten that he must be seen and recognized by people unknown
to him.  Miss Giltinan's clear and candid mind rejected these rumours for lying inventions,
incapable of belief that her idol, Jonah, would carry on with any woman. They talked about
him going upstairs to hear the piano. What was more natural when he couldn't play it himself?
And she dismissed the matter from her mind and went about her business.

Clara gave Ray his lesson, listening between whiles for a rapid step from below, but none came.
She decided to go, and picked up her gloves.  But as she passed the bedroom door on the landing,
a voice that she recognized for Ada's called out "Is that you, Miss Grimes?"

"Yes," said Clara, and paused.

The voice sounded faint and thin, like that of a sick woman.

"'Ow is it y'ain't playin' anythin' to-day?" she continued.

"Mr Jones is out," replied Clara, annoyed by this conversation through the crack of a door,
and anxious to get away.

"Oh, is 'e?" said Ada, with an increase of energy in her voice.  "I wish yer'd come in fer
a minit, if ye're not in a 'urry."

Clara pushed the door open, and went in.  It was her first sight of the bedroom, and she recoiled
in dismay.  The place was like a pigsty.  Ada was lying on the bed, still tossed and disordered
from last night, in a dirty dressing-gown.  A basin of soapy water stood on the washstand,
and the carpeted floor was littered with clothes, a pile of penny novelettes, and a collection
of odds and ends on their way to the rag-bag.  In spite of the huge bedroom suite with its
streaked and speckled mirrors, the room seemed half furnished.

For a moment Clara was puzzled, and then her quick, feminine eye noted a complete absence of
the common knick-knacks and trifles that indicate the refinement or vulgarity of the owner.
She remembered that Jonah had told her that Ada pawned everything she could lay hands on since
he stopped her allowance.  But she was more surprised at the change in Ada herself. Months
ago Ada had begun to avoid her, ashamed of her slovenly looks, and now Clara scarcely recognized
her.  Her eyes were sunken, her cheeks had fallen in, and a bluish pallor gave her the look
of one recovering from a long illness.  The room had not been aired, and the accumulated odours
of the night turned Clara sick.  She was thinking of some excuse to get away when Ada began
to speak with a curious whine, quite unlike her old manner.

"I'm ashamed ter ask yer in, Miss Grimes, the room's in such a state; but I've been very ill,
with no one ter talk to fer days past.  Not that I'm ter blame.  I 'ope it's niver your lot
to 'ave a 'usband with thousan's in the bank, an' too mean ter keep a servant.  'Ere am I from
mornin' ter night, slavin' an' drudgin', an' me with a leg that bad I can 'ardly stand on it.
I'll just show yer wot state I'm in.  It's breakin' out all over. Me blood's that bad fer want
of proper food an' nourishment." She began to unfasten a dirty bandage below her knee. Clara
turned her head in disgust. The flesh was covered with ulcerated sores.

"I don't know 'ow you find 'im, Miss Grimes," she continued, her voice rising in anger, "but
if yer believe me, a meaner man niver walked the earth.  I've 'ad ter pawn the things in this
very room ter pay the baker an' the grocer.  That's 'ow 'e makes 'is money.  Starvin' 'is own
wife ter squeeze a few shillin's for 'is bankin' account.  'E knows I can't go outside the
door, 'cause I've got nuthin' ter put on; but 'e takes jolly good care ter go down town an'
live on the fat of the land."

From the next room came the fitful, awkward sounds of a five-finger exercise from Ray.  Clara
listened with silent contempt to this torrent of abuse.  She knew that it was false that the
more Jonah gave her, the more she spent on drink.  And as she looked at Ada's face, ravaged
by alcohol, a stealthy thought crept into her mind that set her heart beating. Suddenly Ada's
anger dropped like a spent fire.

"Did yer say Mr Jones was busy in the shop?" she inquired, feebly.

"No," said Clara, "I understand that he went down town on important business, and won't be
back till late."

"Thank yer," said Ada, with a curious glitter in her eyes.  "Would yer mind callin' Ray in?
I want ter send 'im on a message to the grocer's."

Clara went into the next room and sent Ray to his mother, stopping for a minute to shut the
keyboard and put the music straight.  After every lesson she was accustomed to examine the
piano as if it were her own property.  When she entered the bedroom again, Ada was whispering
rapidly to Ray.  She looked up as Clara entered, and gave him some money in a piece of paper.

"An' tell 'im I'll send the rest to-morrer," she added aloud.  Ray went down the back stairs,
swinging an empty  millet-bag in his hand.  For another five minutes Clara remained standing,
to show that she was anxious to get away, while Ada abused her husband, giving detailed accounts
of his meanness and neglect.  Suddenly her mood changed.

"I'm afraid I mustn't keep yer any longer, Miss Grimes," she said abruptly; "an' thank yer
fer lookin' in ter see 'ow I was."

Clara, surprised and relieved at the note of dismissal in her voice, took her leave.

She went down the winding staircase at the rear of the shop, opposite the cashier's desk. 
The pungent odour of leather was delightful in her nostrils after the stale smell of the room
above, and she halted at the turn of the landing to admire the huge shop, glittering with varnish,
mirrors, and brass rods.  Then she looked round for Jonah, but he was nowhere to be seen.

The sight of Ada, ravaged by alcohol, had filled her with strange thoughts, and she walked
up Regent Street, comparing Ada with her own father, who seemed to thrive on beer.  There must
be some difference in their constitutions, for Ada was clearly going to pieces, and...the thought
entered her mind again that quickened her pulse.  She had never thought of that!  She was passing
the "Angel" with its huge white globes and glittering mirrors that reflected the sun's rays,
when she caught sight of Ray coming out of the side door, swinging an empty millet-bag in his
hand. A sudden light flashed on her mind.  Ada's invitation into the bedroom, the inquiry about
Jonah, and her sudden dismissal all meant this.

"Did you get what your mother wanted?" she asked the child, with a thumping sensation in her heart.

"No," said Ray carelessly; "the man wouldn't give me the medicine.  He told me to go home and
fetch the rest of the money."

"How much more do you want?" asked Clara, in a curious tone.

"Eighteen pence," said Ray, showing two half-crowns in his hand.

Clara hesitated, with parched lips.  She remembered Ada's face, ravaged by brandy.  She was
a physical wreck, and six months ago...perhaps another bottle...

The thought grazed her mind with a stealthy, horrible suggestion.  She felt in her purse with
trembling fingers, and found a shilling and a sixpence.

"Go and get your mother's medicine," she whispered, putting the money into Ray's hand; "but
don't tell her that you met me, or she may scold you."

Ray turned in at the side door, and Clara, white to the lips, hurried round the corner.

It took Ray half an hour to cover the short distance between the Angel and the Silver Shoe,
with a bottle of brandy swinging carelessly in the millet-bag.  Cassidy himself, all smiles,
had carefully wrapped it in paper.  Ray had promised to hurry home with the medicine for his
mother, but, as usual, the shop windows were irresistible.  Some of his early trips to the
"Angel" had taken half a day.

Meanwhile Ada lay on the bed in an agony of attention, atrociously alert to every sound, hearing
with every nerve in her body.  Her nerves had collapsed under the repeated debauches, and the
scream of an engine shunting in the railway yards went through her like a knife.  The confused
rumble of carts in Regent Street, the familiar sounds from the shop below, the slamming of
a door, a voice raised in inquiry, the monotonous, kindly echoes of life, struck on the raw
edges of her nerves, exasperating her to madness.

And through it all her ears sought for two sounds with agonizing acuteness--the firm, rapid
step of Jonah mounting the stairs winding from the shop, or the nonchalant, laggard footfall
of Ray ascending from the stairs at the rear.  Would Cassidy send the bottle and trust her
for the other eighteen pence?  Would Jonah hurry back to meet Miss Grimes? Presently her ear
distinguished the light, uncertain step of Ray.  Every nerve in her body leapt for joy when
she saw the bottle. She looked at the clock, it was nearly four.  She had at least an hour
clear, for Jonah would be in no hurry now that he had missed the music-lesson.  She snatched
the bag from the astonished child.

"Go an' see if yer father's in the shop.  If 'e ain't there, yer can go an' play in the lane
till 'e comes back," she cried.

Her hands shook as she held the bottle, but with a supreme effort she controlled her muscles
and drew the cork without a sound, an accomplishment that she had learned in the back parlour
of the Angel. She poured out half a glass, and swallowed it neat.  The fiery liquid burnt her
throat and brought the tears to her eyes, but she endured it willingly for the sake of the
blessed relief that always followed.   A minute later she repeated the dose and lay down on
the bed.  In ten minutes the seductive liquid had calmed her nerves like oil on troubled waters.
She listened to the familiar sounds of the shop and the street with a delicious languor and
sense of comfort in her body.  In an hour she had reached the maudlin stage, and the bottle
was half empty.

She felt at peace with the world, and began to think kindly of Jonah. Hazily she remembered
her bitter speech to Miss Grimes, and wondered at her violence.  There was nothing the matter
with him.  He had been a good husband to her, working day and night to get on in the world.
She felt a sudden desire to be friendly with him.  Maudlin tears of self-reproach filled her
eyes as she thought how she had stood in his way instead of helping him.  She would mend her
ways, give up the drink which was killing her, and take her proper position, with a fine house
and servants.  With a fatuous obstinacy in her sodden brain, she decided not to lose a minute,
but to go and surprise Jonah with her noble resolutions.

She got to her feet, and saw the brandy bottle.  Ah!  Jonah must not know that she had been
drinking, and with the last conscious act of her clouded brain she staggered into the sitting-room
and hid the bottle under the cushions of the sofa.  Then, conscious of nothing but her resolve,
she lurched to the top of the stairs.  It was nearly dark, and she felt for the railing, but
the weight of her body sent an atrocious pain through her leg, and to ease it she took a step
forward to put her weight on the other.  And then, without fear, and without the desire or
the power to save herself, she stepped into space and fell headlong down the winding staircase
that she had always dreaded, rolling and bumping with a horrible noise on the wooden steps
down to the shop, where the electric lights had just been switched on.  She rolled sideways,
and lay, with a curious slackness in her limbs, in front of the cashier's desk.  One of the
shopmen, startled by the noise, turned, and then, with a look of horror on his face, ran to
the door.  He bumped into Jonah, who was coming from the ladies' department.

"Wot the devil's this?" cried Jonah.

The man turned and pointed to the huddled heap at the foot of the stairs.

"It's yer missis.  She fell from the top.  'Er face is looking the wrong way."

Jonah ran forward and shouted for a doctor.  Then he knelt down and tried to lift Ada into
a sitting posture, but her head sagged on one side.  And Jonah realized suddenly, with a curious
feeling of detachment, that he was free.  When the doctor arrived, he told them that death
had been instantaneous, as she had broken her neck in the fall.

The next day the "Silver Shoe" was closed on account of the funeral. The Grimes family sent
a wreath, but Jonah looked in vain for Clara among the mourners.  He was disappointed but relieved,
fearing that the exultation in his heart would betray him in the presence of strangers. He
dwelt with rapture on the moment in which he would meet her face to face, free to love and
be loved, willing to lose some precious hours for the sake of rehearsing schemes for the future
in his mind.  He listened without emotion to the conventional regrets of the mourners, agreeing
mechanically with their empty remarks on his great loss, a mocking devil in his brain.

The day after the funeral the Silver Shoe returned to business, and Jonah spent the morning
in the shop, too nervous to sit idle.  He had spent a sleepless night debating whether he should
go to Clara or wait till she came to him of her own accord.  The shop was alive with customers,
drawn by the red-letter sale, but there was no sign of the one woman above all he desired to
see.  Suddenly he decided, with a certainty that astonished him, that she would come in the
afternoon. After dinner he stayed in the sitting-room, fidgeting with impatience. He looked
for something to do, and remembered that he had still to clear up the mystery of Ada's drunken
bout.  All the shop-hands had denied lending her money, and the mystery was increased by his
finding no bottle in the usual hiding places.  Ray, when questioned about brandy, had stared
at him with bewildered eyes.  And to calm his nerves he made another search of the rooms.

He turned out the drawers and cupboards, meeting everywhere evidence of Ada's slovenly habits.
And at the sight and touch of the tawdry laces and flaring ribbons he was surprised by an emotion
of tenderness and pity for his dead wife.  He realized that the last link had snapped that
bound him to Cardigan Street and the Push.  Something vibrated in him as he thought of the
woman who had shared his youth, and he understood suddenly that no other woman could disturb
her possession of the years that were dead. Clara could share the future with him, but half
his life belonged irrevocably to Ada.

He had searched every likely nook and corner of the rooms, and found nothing.  The absence
of the bottle set him thinking.  He became certain that the hand of another was in this.  Ada
had never left her room; therefore the bottle had been brought to her.  And the one who brought
it had taken it away again.  Clara had been the last one to see her alive, and of course...He
stopped with an unshaped thought in his mind, and then smiled at it for an absurdity.  Tired
with his exertions, he sat on the sofa, digging his elbow into the cushion, and instantly felt
something hard underneath.  The next moment he was on his feet, holding in his hands the bottle
of brandy, half empty.  He stared stupidly at the bottle that had sent Ada to her death and
set him free, wondering who had paid for it and brought it into the house. As he turned the
bottle in his hands, examining it with the morbid interest with which one examines a bloodstained
knife, he heard a light tap on the door.

"Come in," he cried, absorbed in his discovery.

He turned with the bottle in his hands, to find Clara standing in the doorway with a tremulous
smile on her lips.  But, as Jonah turned, her eye fell on the bottle.

"I've been a day findin' this," said Jonah; "but now..."

An extraordinary change in Clara's face stopped the words on his lips. The tremulous smile
on her parted lips changed to a nervous grin, and her colour turned to a greyish white as she
stared at the bottle, her eyes dilated with horror.  For some moments there was a dreadful
silence, in which Jonah distinctly heard Miss Giltinan giving an order downstairs. Slowly he
looked from Clara to the bottle.  Again he stared at the frightened woman, and his mind leapt
to a dreadful certainty.

"Come in, an' shut the door," he said.  His voice was little more than a whisper.

Clara obeyed him mechanically.

"Sit down," he added, putting the bottle on the table.

For a while each stared at the other, too stunned to move or speak. Jonah's world had fallen
about his ears, and Clara's dreams of wealth mocked at her and fled.

Suddenly, in the deadly silence, Jonah began to speak.

"So it was you, was it?  I never thought of that.  I wonder what brought yer 'ere just as I
found this?  They say murder will out, an' I believe it now.  If this 'appened to anybody else,
'e'd go mad.  But I can stand it.  I'm tough.  I fought my way up from the gutter.  An' ye're
the woman that I worshipped....For God's sake, woman, speak! Make up something that I can believe.
Say yer never 'ad a 'and in this, an' I'll kiss the ground yer walk on.  No, it wouldn't be
any use.  I couldn't believe the angel Gabriel, if he looked at me with that face.  Yer paid
for that bottle an' brought it 'ere.  I saw that the moment yer set eyes on it. Yer thought
Ada wasn't goin' ter hell fast enough, an' yer'd give 'er a shove.  An' I see now why yer did
it. Yer wanted ter step into 'er shoes, an' 'andle my money.  It wasn't me yer wanted.  I might
'ave known that. It was the shop that yer were always talkin' about.  An' if yer 'adn't walked
in at that door just now, I should never 'ave suspected.  Screamin' funny, ain't it?  She wasn't
much loss, but she was a thousand times better than the ladylike devil that killed her.  I
don't know 'ow the law stands in a case like this.  Yer may be safe from that, but yer've got
me ter deal with first.  Yer led me on with yer damned airs to believe in things I've never
dreamt of before.  An' now yer've killed the best in me as sure as yer murdered my wife.  Well,
yer must pay for that, too."

Clara sat on the chair like one in a trance.  She understood in a numbed kind of way that something
dreadful was going to happen.  O God, she had never meant to do wrong!  And if this was the
punishment, let it come quickly.  Jonah had been walking backwards and forwards with nervous
steps, and she noted every detail of his person with a fixed stare.  The early repugnance to
his deformity returned with horror as she studied the large head, wedged between the shoulders
as if a giant's hand had pressed it down, the projecting hump, and the unnaturally long arms
ending in the hard, hairy fist of the shoemaker.

She felt that he was going to kill her.  She wanted to speak, to cry out that she was not so
guilty as he thought, but her tongue was like a rasp. Suddenly Jonah stopped in front of her.
Her stony silence had maddened him, and in a moment he was transformed into the old-time larrikin,
accustomed to demand an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. He  rushed at her with a cry like
an animal, and caught her by the throat with his powerful hands.  But the contact of his fingers
with that delicate flesh that he had never dared to touch before brought him to his senses.
A violent shudder shook him like ague, his fingers relaxed, and with a sobbing cry, dreadful
to hear, he dragged the fainting woman to her feet and pushed her towards the door, crying
"Go, go, for God's sake!"

She walked unsteadily through the shop with a face the colour of chalk, hearing and seeing
nothing.  The red-letter sale was in full swing.  A crowd of customers jostled one another
as they passed in and out; the coins clinked merrily in the till.  Miss Giltinan caught sight
of her face, and wondered.  Half an hour later, growing suspicious, she ran upstairs, and knocked
at the door on a pretext of business.  Hearing nothing, she opened the door, with her heart
in her mouth, and looked in. Jonah was crouching motionless on the end of the sofa, his head
buried among the cushions, like a stricken animal.  Puzzled, but reassured, she closed the
door gently and went downstairs.

      *      *      *      *      *

Jonah never saw Clara again.  He spent a week in the depths, groping blindly, hating life for
its deceptions.  Then, one day, his passion of hatred and loathing for Clara left him suddenly,
as a garrison surrenders without a blow.  He took a cab to her house, and knocked at the door.
A curtain moved, but the door remained unopened.  A month later he learned that she had married
her old love, the clerk in the Lands Department, transferred by request to Wagga, beyond the
reach of Dad and his reputation.  The following year Jonah married Miss Giltinan, chiefly on
account of Ray, who was growing unmanageable; and on Monday morning it was one of the sights
of Regent Street to see the second Mrs Jones step into her sulky to drive round and inspect
the suburban branches of the "Silver Shoe" which Jonah had opened under her direction.

Chook and Pinkey did not need to stare at sixpence before spending it, but their fortune was
long in the making.  Meanwhile Chook consoled himself with the presence of a sturdy son, the
image of Pinkey, with a mop of curls the colour of a new penny.