Slav Teut kak cackle, kaka the crow; Pawnee kaka; Man keka the crow; Eu sara stream flow, sara
butter; Min tsara; Tit Dak sla grease; I E ar join whence our arm; Win and Min ara, the arm;
Slav Teut lap, lamp shine; Dak ampa light; Slav Teut krup fear; Dak kopa noun fear, a fearful
place; adj insecure; a Scandinavian base naf, nap, our nab, Icel nefi; Swed nefwa (perhaps
i was the original suffix) the hand; Dak nape the hand; I E kak spring; Lith szaka (pronounced
shaka) twig shoot, etc; Dak shake nails claws; Om shage finger; Min shaki hand paw.

In Dak as in I E -a usually raises the stem vowel; I E kid burn; Teut haita hot; Dak kata hot;
I E sik dry; Dak saka also shecha dried; I E lip adhere; Tit Dak lapa sticky adhesive; I E
migh pour out water, Skt megha cloud; Om magha, mangha cloud sky; Crow makha sky; Dak in makhpiya
(maghapiya) cloud sky, maghazhu rain. The zhu is Dak-zhu, Min-ghu, I E ghu pour.

2. I E -i formed abstracts and nouns of agency; I E ar go; Min ari, way, track, trail.

3. I E -u formed adjectives; I E ragh spring, raghu light, whence lungs; Min dagho, agho; Dak
chaghu lungs;[G] Eu park whence parka wrinkle; Dak pako crooked, wrinkled.

4. I E -ya formed nouns, adjectives and participles. The Dak still retains some adjectives
thus formed, and hundreds of participles rendered by English participles, but used only adverbially,
and it has become an adverbial suffix.

5. I E -wa formed passive participles, adjectives and nouns. It is in Dak a living passive
participial suffix combined with the like suffix -an, forming wa(h)an. When added directly
to the root it raises the stem vowel as in; Eu ku contain to be hollow; Lat cava; Dak -ko be
hollow, noun ko a hole; kawa open. After consonants the w becomes p; I E akwa water of ak;
Gothic ahva river; Dak wakpa river.

6. I E -ma, -mana, -man formed adjectives, present participles and nouns; I E akman stone of
ak, A S iman; Dak imni stone.

7. I E -ra, -la formed adjectives and nouns; Eu kira yellow; Old Slav seru; Crow shira, Min
tsidi, tsiri, Man psida, Iowa thi, Om thi, zi; Win and Dak zi yellow; I E ghu pour; Min ghu
pour; Dak zhu pour, ozhu pour in, in ozhudan, Tit ozhu la full; Eu wasra spring of was; Icel
vara, Lat ver; Win wera spring; Eu tag cover whence; Welsh and Irish ti house, our thatch;
Win chira house; Man, Min, Om, Dak ti house; Aryan nira water of ni; Tit Dak nila water; Om
and Win ni water.

Ra, la is also a diminutive suffix in I E languages. It is the regular diminutive suffix in
Win, -ra, in Tit Dak, -la, in Yank -na, in Santee Dak -dan also -na.

8. I E -an formed past passive participles whence our en in fallen, etc. It is still the regular
passive participial suffix in Dak either alone or combined with wa. As Dak verb stems end in
a vowel it is preceded by a euphonic h. When added directly to the root it raises the stem
vowel, as in Eu wik whence Gothic veiha holy; Dak wakan sacred.

9. I have not found infinitive suffix -na in Dak.

10. I E -na was a passive participial suffix, developing also denominatives. The Dak has perhaps
a few relics; I E ku bring low, kauna low; Dak ku- in kuchedan, also kun low. I E mi, diminish
(mince); Yank and Tit Dak mina knife.

11. I E -ni formed abstracts and nouns of agency. Possibly it is found in; I E migh pour out
water; Dak mini water; and a few others.

12. Two words containing -nu, are recognized by Schleicher as I E; I E and Dak su bear; I E
sunu son; Dak sun younger brother. I E and Dak tan extend; I E tanu adj thin, noun body; Dak
tan body.

13. I E -ta (our -d) formed the past passive participle, and nouns of similar signification,
in which uses it is tolerably frequent in Dak; I E ski collect, arrange; Dak shki plait gather,
skita bound together, tied on; I E pu destroy rot; Min pu rot; Dak po in pon (=po an) rotten,
po -ta used up, worn out; I E sta stand, stata standing, stopped, brought to a stand; Dak -sdata
standing, stopped, hence also sdata feeble; I E su sew, sut sewed; Dak suta strong, compare
Min ashu a string cord; I E and Dak wi wind, wrap around, encircle; Dak wita island; wita bound
together, in witaya together.

14. I E -ta formed nouns of agency and future participles. It is derived by Bopp from I E tar
pass-over, whence also Eu tar, tur pass-over, possess, accomplish, fulfil. The root is extremely
frequent in these uses in the Dakotan languages, and in Dak at least is much used as a suffix.
The last half of the word Mini-tari is tari, cross over. In Dak, Eu tur is re; represented
as accurately as possible by ton possess, accomplish, fulfil, have, give birth, and the preposition
tan in composition from equally represents Skt tar, from.[H]

As forming nouns of agency it has in Dak lost the r; Eu pa, whence Eu pana fire; Dak peta fire;
I E ak Skt iksh see, whence our eye; Min aka, ika see; Crow am-aka, Iowa at-aka see; ishta
eye, in all Dakotan languages.

We perhaps have a few relics of tar as a comparative suffix; I E uk increase whence Old Sax
agen our again; Mand age, Dak ake again, Dak akton more than.

15. I have not recognized -ti in Dak.

16. Dak wetu, etu time, season, may be I E and Dak, -wi encircle, with -tu, but is more probably
related to I E vatas year, adj. old.

17. I have not recognized -dhi in Dak.

18. I E -ant (our ing) forming active participles necessarily drops t and prefixes h in Dak,
and in this form, han, is used as active participial suffix with some verbs.

19. As a plural suffix I E -as seems to be presented by the Mandan plural suffix osh.

20. I E -ka as a primary suffix forms a few nouns and adjectives; I E ku contain be hollow;
Dak root ko the same, koka a cask, barrel, box, etc; I E and Dak tan extend, stretch; Dak tanka
large (cf Iowa tanra large). I E da bind; Dak daka bound by obligation, relationship or league,
whence their name Dakota, those bound by league, those making a league, friend, comrade (-ta
for I E tar). As a secondary suffix it is extremely frequent in Dak as well as I E, forming
in both words of multifarious relations to their primitives. I E kuan, kwan, kwanka dog; Lith
szun (pronounced shun); Dak shunka dog; Old Slav suka a bitch; Min shuka a dog. Ka is used
both in I E and Dak as a negative suffix. In Sanskrit and several other I E languages it is
used as a diminutive suffix, and forms one syllable of the various Min diminutive suffixes.

     FOOTNOTES:

     [Footnote G: For I E r--Dak ch compare Eu wira Dak wicha-man;
     Eu wera; Dak wicaka true. Teut legya thigh whence leg of lak;
     Win lega and legra; Iowa reke; Mandan doka; Min diki, liki the
     leg, the thigh; Dak checha the thighs. The r probably first
     became d.]

     [Footnote H: Dak n--I E r is supported by about fifty
     examples.]

PREPOSITIONS.

The Dak is like the I E languages remarkable for its copiousness in prepositions. In their
use or omission the Dak differs from the English less than does the Anglo Saxon. As in some
of the old I E languages they are either verbal prefixes or follow their nouns. Nearly all
of them seem to be of I E prepositions mostly compounded. I give examples of the more obvious
similarities.

Sam. together with, in skt. A. S. and Dak.

En in, Greek, Teutonic and Dak.

On, A. S. with dat, for, on account of, of, Dak the same.

A verbal prefix on, Icel, A. S., Dak.

I E ana A. S. an on, Dak an in composition on.

A. S. at our at; Dak ta at necessarily transposed.

Eu da Old Ir du, our to, Germ zu; Min du, during, at that time; Dak tu to, till etc.

Eu ek over, of I E ak; Min ak over, Dak in ak -an upon, ak -am beyond over upon, ek -ta at, etc.

Eu api about, around; Min api with.

