    CASE XX. Sciatica. Mr. R., a middle aged man, mechanic, was
    sent by Dr. ARCULARIUS Nov. 9th, 1874. Had post-rheumatic
    sciatica of some six weeks’ standing. There were no remarkable
    features about the case, which however was sufficiently severe
    to disable him from pursuing his avocation. He took his first
    bath on the date above-mentioned. Another bath was administered
    next day, and three more every alternate day. He was then almost
    well. On Nov. 25th he returned, there remaining still some
    traces of the affection. Four more baths, the last of which was
    administered on Dec. 4th, sufficed to complete the cure.

    CASE XXI. Sciatica. Mr. G., aet. about 35, saddler, was sent
    by Dr. WAECHTER, March 6th, 1875. Had suffered from sciatica
    without discoverable cause for several years. For one year prior
    to his visit had been unable to work, and was confined to bed a
    great portion of the time. There was slight atrophy of the
    affected limb. He had had considerable medical (including local
    electrical) treatment, without avail. The baths were faithfully
    and persistently tried in this case, effecting however but
    slight improvement. Subsequent hypodermic injections, first of
    strychnia, then of atropia and finally of chloroform, the latter
    in doses ranging from 30 to 60 minims, gave him only temporary
    relief. The patient was finally discharged uncured.

    CASE XXII. Lumbo-abdominal neuralgia. Mr. W., aet. about 40,
    was brought by Dr. MARVIN S. BUTTLES in June, 1875. He had been
    in poor health for a number of years, and was then in a very
    cachectic condition. There was considerable gluteal atrophy on
    the affected side. At Dr. B.’s suggestion he took a course of
    electric baths, with the happiest result. He improved steadily,
    and on the occasion of a late inquiry after I had not seen him
    for some months, Dr. B. told me that the patient had entirely
    recovered. His general condition as well as the neuralgia had
    been very favorably modified by the baths, and he is now in far
    better health than he has been for many years.

    CASE XXIII.—Lumbo-abdominal neuralgia. Mr. G., aet. 40, came
    to consult me in October, 1875. He had suffered from neuralgic
    pains, more particularly in the renal region of both sides, but
    also in the neighboring parts, for only one week. The case being
    so recent, I entertained a very favorable prognosis, which
    subsequently was amply verified. A bath on the 12th of October
    and one on the 16th sufficed to effect a complete cure.

                         ARTICULAR EFFUSIONS.

It would appear at a first glance as though local galvanization of affected joints should be
more directly and powerfully instrumental than electric baths in promoting the absorption of
morbid deposits. To suppose so would however be a mistake—even where a single joint is concerned.
Where many joints are involved, the advantages over local galvanization of the baths is sufficiently
obvious. Where but a single joint is involved, the current can by means of the surface board
be concentrated on the affected joint, while by the general galvanization a stimulus is furnished
to the absorbents, that in itself is probably fully as important as any local treatment could
be. In this manner absorption is made to progress much more certainly and rapidly, and this
course is therefore to be given the preference in all cases where no special contra-indication
exists.

The ascending general galvanic current should be employed for from 5 to 10 minutes. The surface
board, connected with the negative pole, should then be applied for a few minutes successively
to each of the affected joints. Iodine in some form should be added to the baths.

    CASE XXIV.* Specific synovitis of knee-joint, with considerable
    articular and peri-articular effusion. Mr. C., from the
    practice of Dr. SHEPPARD, aet. about 35. First saw patient at
    his house on Nov. 9th, 1873, in consultation with Dr. S. and Dr.
    HUTCHINSON, of Providence, R. I. Had been on mercury and iodide
    of potassium for a long time. When I first saw him, he had been
    incapacitated from work for about a year. Had been unable to
    leave the house for three months. The affected joint was very
    much enlarged, with little or no mobility, the condition being
    practically the same as true ankylosis. It was decided to
    substitute tonics for the specific treatment, and to administer
    galvanic baths. On Nov. 11th the first bath was administered,
    another on the 15th, and a third on the 19th. Considerable
    improvement in motility was then apparent. Two more baths, taken
    respectively on the 22d and 29th, effected some reduction in the
    size of the knee. The baths were continued to January 3d, 1874,
    when the effusion had become almost entirely absorbed, and the
    joint perfectly mobile. The patient then had been for some time
    taking daily walks, unassisted. He now (Jany. 3d) walks without
    any difficulty, has regained his normal vigor, and is perfectly
    well.

                              IMPOTENCY.

The frequent obstinacy of this distressing condition under every variety of non-electrical
treatment, is the cause of the frequency with which cases present themselves to the specialist.
Unfortunately however but few of the referred cases are of recent origin. In almost all instances
they have gone through a vast amount of medication and other treatment, and finally, either
through their attending physicians or of their own accord, they come as a dernier ressort to
seek relief from electrical treatment. I have already (p. 47) spoken of the comparative merits
in this disease of local and general electrization. A few years ago I was ignorant of the good
effects of the baths in male impotency. I came to test and employ them here from two causes.
In the first place, patients were sent me specially for electro-balneological treatment, ordered
by their physicians; and, second, I began, when I became familiarized with the effects of the
baths, to have recourse to them in cases where with local electrical and other treatment I
had been unable to accomplish anything. My average results, without becoming uniformly successful,
became so very much better, that after a brief but abundant experience with this treatment,
I have come to consider it the most important we possess in this affection; one that will frequently
succeed when everything else, including local electrization, has failed, and which, in cases
where no incurable organic changes underlie the affection, will, if properly persisted in,
either cure or improve to a great extent a large majority of the cases. I have even seen instances
where, the sexual power having receded as the legitimate result of advancing age, it returned
almost or quite perfectly and with seeming permanency under the influence of the baths. In
the class of cases—and they are quite numerous—in which impotency (loss of the power of erection)
occurs as a purely nervous symptom in comparatively young men; where its cause is sometimes
purely imaginative, at others the result of early excesses, the baths are attended with the
most gratifying average results. Where the cause is purely psychical, a very few baths are
sometimes sufficient to dispel the morbid phenomena. Where masturbation or excessive venery
are at the bottom of the trouble, there is always a probability of more or less organic change
in the lower portion of the spinal cord, and frequently also a secondary enfeeblement of the
digestive functions, which render requisite a long and steadily continued use of the baths.
Patients whose sexual power was intact, who took the baths for other purposes, have time and
again called my attention to their aphrodisiac effects.

While here the general electric influence is the main remedial agency, there is no reason why
the possible—or, I should say, probable—good to be obtained from its local influence should
not be realized—the less so that it is so facile to obtain this in the bath, by means of the
surface board. While individual cases will undoubtedly call for modifications, I have found
the following plan to answer best in certainly more than half the cases that have come under
my observation: The first five minutes of the bath may be occupied by a general galvanic current
of medium intensity, descending where the patient is of an irritable, ascending where of a
phlegmatic temperament. The pole connected with the foot electrode should now be detached,
and the surface board substituted. The second five or ten minutes may be consumed by running
a galvanic current between the head electrode and the surface board, the latter applied alternately
to the penis, scrotum, perineum and, where thought best, also to the lumbo-sacral region. Where,
as is usual, the impotency is accompanied by a certain degree of cutaneous anæsthesia of the
penis, but especially where the seminal secretion is scanty, the board should be positive (ascending
current); where however nocturnal spermatorrhœa, premature discharges (before coition is possible)
or other irritable phenomena characterize a case, the surface board should be negative (descending
current). The head of the patient should rest on a sponge thoroughly saturated with water,
and communicating with the water of the bath, so as to include the cerebellum in the direct
circuit. The last five or ten minutes of the bath should be devoted to passing the faradic
current between the head electrode and the surface board, this last applied about the genitals,
but chiefly about the perineum, the current to be of sufficient intensity to contract the perineal
muscles. With anæmic patients iron should be added to the baths. These should be taken at first
daily, later on every other day, then three times a week, and so on until it becomes apparent
that all the good that can be obtained from them has been obtained—whether this be a perfect
cure or only a certain degree of improvement. Where it is thought requisite, internal medication
and various hygienic measures may be advantageously resorted to as adjuvants. While these will
do no good when employed alone, they may serve to enhance the effects of the baths.

In the following cases, I will include some where the impotency was not perfect, where the
conditions were merely those of sexual debility. As there is here merely a difference in degree,
it would be superfluous to separate the two conditions under distinct heads.

    CASE XXV.* Perfect impotency.—Mr. F., from the practice of
    Dr. CARO, a robust gentleman, aet. thirty-six, full of muscular
    vigor. Had had syphilis, the symptoms of which had disappeared
    under Dr. C.’s treatment. For two years the power of erection as
    well as sexual appetite had become extinct—if we except an
    occasional imperfect spontaneous erection on waking up in the
    morning, and even this was of rare occurrence. Ordinary
    medication proving inadequate, Dr. C. sent patient to take
    electric baths. From March 7th to July 16th, Mr. F. used the
    baths, averaging about two weekly. He was then, and still
    remains, perfectly restored.

    CASE XXVI. Perfect impotency. A. E. K., aet. 23, commercial
    traveler, applied to me for treatment in the spring of 1873. His
    general health was very good. He had masturbated but little. Had
    been in full possession of his sexual power until almost
    twenty-two years of age, when he found that, without assignable
    cause, he had lost the power of erection. His general condition
    being, as far as discoverable, perfect in every respect, I
    instituted a local electrical treatment. This was continued for
    some time without avail. Strychnia was then administered with no
    better result, and after some months’ treatment I told him that
    I could do nothing for him. He remained without any treatment
    whatever until the spring of 1874, when I advised him to try
    electric baths. He took in all about half a dozen baths, which
    resulted in his complete and thus far permanent restoration.

    CASE XXVII. Sexual debility. Mr. W., aet. 32, married,
    manufacturer, consulted me in February 1875. Had gradually for
    about a year past lost sexual power. Was able to perform the
    marital act at rare intervals only, and when he did, felt
    exhausted the whole of the succeeding day. I ordered him
    electric baths. He took the first on February 22d, 1875. Between
    this date and March 22d, he took six baths. The sexual power had
    then fully returned. I must not omit to state that during the
    time he was under treatment he took, by my direction, gr. 1/25
    phosphorus twice daily, which may have somewhat accelerated the
    result.

                             CONSTIPATION.

Atony of the muscularis of the intestine is admittedly the direct cause, in most instances,
of constipation. It is the condition known as “torpor of the bowels.” It is ordinarily due
to abnormal innervation of the parts. The inefficient innervation may be—and in females frequently
is—reflex, or its cause may be sought for in the central nervous system. The condition of the
voluntary abdominal muscles is likewise a factor in the alvine process. Sluggishness of the
abdominal (portal) circulation is a not infrequent etiological concomitant of constipation,
and, finally, the conditions grouped as “dyspepsia” may form the causative feature of a case.
I have mentioned these different causes simply in order to account to some extent for the almost
wonderful effects in this condition of electric baths. When we consider that in every one of
the morbid conditions here enumerated, electricity is a very efficient remedy, and that for
the resulting muscular atony it may be called a specific, it will not appear surprising that
a mode of application which brings the electric influence to bear on both cause and effect—often
on a combination of several of the causes enumerated, should be attended with such brilliant
results. I have thus far met with no failure in the electro-balneological treatment of constipation.

In the majority of cases the following method has proven the most efficient. The first ten
minutes of the bath should be devoted to the administration of a galvanic current, as intense
as can comfortably be borne by the patient. The one pole should be connected with the head-electrode,
the other, by means of the surface board, applied alternately, to the epigastrium, chiefly,
and to the hypogastric region. The current should a portion of the time be ascending, the rest
descending. Occasionally the current should be rapidly reversed by means of the commutator,
the intensity however having been previously reduced, in order to avoid too severe a shock;
this will cause efficient contractions of the abdominal parietes, and probably also of the
intestinal muscularis. The second ten minutes of the bath should be devoted to faradization,
employed in the same manner as the previous galvanization, only that here the direction of
the current is immaterial, and no reversals are requisite. The current should be of sufficient
intensity to produce energetic but not painful contractions of the abdominal parietes.

    CASE XXVIII. Mrs. * *, aet. 55, in average health, without
    however being robust, had suffered from constipation for about
    thirty years. She had had every possible medicinal treatment,
    with no avail. Nothing had ever ameliorated her condition.
    Without the aid of a cathartic, her bowels moved but once every
    week or ten days. She was of course compelled frequently to
    resort to laxatives. In the fall of 1873 I ordered her electric
    baths. She was not very energetic in anything, and this lack of
    energy caused her to take the baths less frequently than I
    desired her to. Had she taken them regularly, she would probably
    have been restored in as many weeks as it took months to effect
    her restoration. As it was, she took some thirty baths in the
    course of about fifteen months. For nearly a year past she has
    had a passage every day with the utmost regularity. No adjuvant
    treatment was employed in this case.

    CASE XXIX.* Emil Miller, a bright child two years of age, was
    brought for treatment July 7th, 1874. He had suffered from
    obstinate constipation almost from his birth. Had been under the
    care of several physicians, but had never received any benefit
    from treatment. Even with the aid of powerful cathartics, given
    in doses suitable for an adult rather than a child, defecation
    took place only once every three or four days, and was so
    exceedingly painful as to elicit cries of pain from the child.
    The feces were always hard and lumpy, and of an abnormally light
    color. A digital examination per rectum revealed considerable
    flaccidity. My diagnosis was paresis of the muscularis of the
    intestine. I ordered faradic baths. On July 12th the first bath
    was administered, and I must confess that the result was a
    perfect surprise to me. True, I had expected a cure to take
    place; but I had looked for gradual improvement, and was not
    prepared for a result such as was here obtained. From the time
    the first bath was taken, defecation took place regularly once a
    day, without pain; the feces became perfectly normal both as to
    color and consistency, and the boy continues to the present day
    to defecate regularly and in every respect normally. To insure
    permanency, the baths were continued, at first twice, then once
    a week. They have now been discontinued for upwards of a year,
    there being no occasion for their further use. No other
    therapeutic measures, internal or external, were resorted to in
    this case, nor was any change made in the diet of the child.

                            HYDRARGYROSIS.

The etiology of this condition requires no comment. I will simply relate a case illustrative
of the eliminative effects of galvanic baths.

    CASE XXX.* Mercurial Stomatitis. Mr. S., about 35 years of
    age, came to me for treatment in the fall of 1872. He then had
    indurated chancre, two buboes and syphilitic sore throat. He had
    had the chancre for six weeks before applying to me, but had
    been, he said, ashamed to consult a physician. Before medication
    had had time to make any impression on the disease, roseola
    appeared. The syphilis was very obstinate in this patient,
    compelling me to keep him under the influence of mercury for a
    long time. In October 1873, the patient presented himself with a
    very aggravated mercurial stomatitis. The customary remedies,
    internal as well as external, made little or no impression on
    the affection. On November 11th, I discontinued all other
    treatment, and ordered a course of galvanic baths. He took his
    first bath on the same day. This was repeated every alternate
    day until six baths had been taken, when all symptoms of the
    disease had disappeared. He has had no mercurial trouble since
    then. The descending galvanic current from a zinc-carbon battery
    was used throughout.

                           LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA.

Were it not for the remarkable results obtained in the following case, I should not have felt
justified in devoting any space to an allusion to this formidable disease. I insert the case
as it was published in No. 216 of the “Medical Record.” I have to add that the patient, some
six months ago, suffered a relapse, which however is not nearly as aggravated as his former
condition, nor are the symptoms so pathognomonic. I had a letter from him about a week previous
to my writing this, in which he states that he intends soon to come to the city for the purpose
of taking another course of treatment. Even if the treatment however has not had the effect
of curing the disease—and this I do not claim for it, it has been of sufficient importance
if it has resulted in arresting for a time its progress, giving the patient temporary comfort,
and prolonging life. Further trial may possibly have better results—in more recent cases—with
respect to permanency.

    CASE XXXI.* Mr. W., aet. 48, came to consult me January 12th,
    1874. He had then felt the symptoms of locomotor ataxia for
    about six years. Had been unable for several years to walk
    without the aid of a cane. When walking he dragged his right
    leg along in a semicircle, and was able to accomplish very short
    distances only. There were almost complete anæsthesia and great
    paresis of the bladder. The same conditions were observable in
    regard to the bowels. Anæsthesia of both lower extremities
    existed, complete in every respect in the right leg, almost so
    in the left. Dyspepsia and general debility and emaciation
    accompanied the disease. Treatment was begun on January 15th. I
    prescribed phosphorus and cod-liver oil, and passed a strong
    galvanic current through the spine for probably ten minutes.
    January 16th, a galvanic bath was administered. Towards the
    close of the bath (which occupied twenty minutes), patient
    thought he felt some sensation in his legs. The baths were taken
    every two or three days, alternating with strong galvanizations
    of the spine. While taking his second bath, patient remarked
    that “his right leg felt warm for the first time in six years.”
    The treatment as described was continued for about six weeks,
    during the latter part of which the local applications were
    gradually diminished in frequency, the baths being continued
    regularly. Medication was discontinued about this time. About
    the middle of March. Mr. W. was enabled to resume his occupation
    (paymaster’s assistant on the Erie Railway). His improvement had
    been rapid and steady. All the symptoms gradually disappeared,
    and in the beginning of April the patient was, with the
    exception of some feebleness, consequent on his protracted
    illness, as well as ever. He continues so to the present
    day.[17] He still takes two or three baths a month, but has had
    no other treatment since May (1874). He walks freely without a
    cane, and talks jocosely of running footraces. All functions are
    performed normally.

    Although in this case the baths were not employed exclusively,
    yet they predominated in the treatment; and if the judgment of
    the patient, a very intelligent gentleman, is to be relied on, a
    large share of the success is due to the baths.

                               CACHEXIÆ.

After what has been said in a preceding chapter of the tonic effects of electric baths, it
would scarcely appear necessary to introduce the subject of cachexiæ. If I do so nevertheless,
it is only to be afforded the opportunity of relating the following case, which possesses sufficient
interest to render its introduction here desirable. The first portion of it has already been
published (Med. Record, No 216), but to this I have to add what occurred subsequently.

    CASE XXXII.* Mercurio-syphilitic Cachexia.—Mr. L., aet. 27,
    had primary syphilis about four years ago. Subsequently had
    inveterate constitutional symptoms, for which he was under
    medical treatment both here and in Europe. When he had sojourned
    in the latter country some time, he was pronounced cured by his
    physicians. He married, and returned to this country in the fall
    of 1872. A few weeks after his return he fell into a gradual
    decline, which confined him to the house—and part of the time
    to bed—for eight months, during the latter portion of which he
    had discontinued all medical treatment. It was with difficulty
    that, assisted by his wife, he managed to reach my office. I
    found him terribly enfeebled; greatly emaciated; sallow
    complexion. He was much annoyed by rheumatic pains, which I
    considered specific. His condition was so exceedingly low, that
    I decided to postpone all medication until he should be
    stronger. I ordered galvano-faradic baths, i.e. the galvanic
    current in the bath as an eliminative, the faradic as a tonic.
    The first bath was taken on November 20th, 1873. For one month
    he took the baths, and nothing else. He was then so much
    stronger, that I felt justified in instituting a mild specific
    course of treatment, the baths being continued as theretofore.
    At the end of two months the patient was nearly as strong as
    ever, was able to resume his occupation, and had gained
    twenty-seven pounds in weight.

    Thus far this case was published as above stated. For the sake
    of the interest attaching to it, I will now proceed to give its
    further history. Mr. L. remained to all appearances well until
    July, 1874, when he commenced to suffer from headache and
    constipation. On the 23d of August following, while I was absent
    from the city, he presented himself to the gentleman who
    attended to my practice during my absence, with paralysis of the
    external rectus muscle of the left eye. He also consulted a
    specialist, who pronounced the paralysis rheumatic. When I
    returned from the country he presented himself for treatment. I
    commenced a series of daily electric applications to the
    affected muscle, which failed to respond to the faradic current,
    but contracted very readily when the slowly interrupted galvanic
    current was employed. As I had strong suspicions that syphilis
    was at the bottom of the trouble, I also administered iodide of
    potassium in gradually increasing doses—not however until
    electrization and strychnia employed for some weeks had failed
    to do any good. The administration of the iodide met with no
    better success. The patient’s general health gradually declined.
    On October 22d, he complained of numbness in the left leg, which
    gradually increased, the leg at the same time becoming paretic,
    so that the patient required the aid of a cane for ordinary
    locomotion. His condition now became rapidly worse. His
    movements became ataxic. Anæsthesia of the bladder, paresis of
    this and the intestine, with obstinate constipation, loss of
    appetite, emaciation, etc., rapidly supervened. I suspected the
    development of gummata on the meninges of the brain and cord,
    and advised him to use the inunction cure, and to remain at home
    until he should be well. This, on account of the business losses
    which it involved, he was very much averse to doing. He
    consequently proposed a consultation with an eminent physician,
    which was had. This gentleman pronounced the case one of spinal
    (either multiple or posterior) sclerosis, and discarded the
    syphilitic theory. A consultation two days subsequently with
    another physician had a like result. In deference to the opinion
    of these gentlemen, I treated the patient in accordance with
    their diagnosis. This was in the second week of November. The
    patient became rapidly worse. He soon ceased to walk—he tumbled
    about. After six days’ treatment, considering his life in
    imminent danger, I reiterated my advice to institute the
    inunction cure, and the patient then acquiesced. Nov. 24th I
    ordered a drachm of Unguent Hydrarg. to be used every evening; I
    could not however prevail on the patient to remain at home
    during the treatment. He continued to grow worse. Nov. 26th he
    had complete retention from vesical paralysis, and sent for me
    at night to relieve him. Thenceforth until he got nearly well he
    was obliged to use the catheter regularly. A few days after
    this, fortunately for himself, he fell down as he was leaving a
    horse car, and sprained his ankle. I say fortunately, for this
    accident compelled him to remain at home. From this time he
    began to improve. December 2d I substituted for the ointment a
    twenty per cent solution of the oleate of mercury, of which he
    used a drachm morning and evening. The improvement from this day
    was exceedingly rapid. On the 4th of December he had regained
    control of the bladder. The constipation, which had been very
    obstinate, also began to yield. From this date he used the
    oleate only once daily, and discontinued it entirely on the
    14th. On the 10th he had already resumed his avocation, and the
    same month absolutely danced at a ball. He took iodide of
    potassium for a time after his mercurial course. He has since
    been and is now in perfect health.

                              DYSPEPSIA.

The remedies for this disease are unfortunately so numerous, there is so much temptation to
try another where one remedy has failed, that it is seldom or never that an uncomplicated case
of dyspepsia applies for electrical treatment. As a rule, the disease that furnishes cause
for referring a case to the specialist, is some nervous trouble secondary to the dyspepsia.

In regard to the influence of electric baths on dyspeptic conditions, whether complicated or
not, I can however speak unqualifiedly in their favor. I know of no one other remedy that can
at all approach them in this respect. Whatever the secondary or other troubles of patients,
any co-existing dyspepsia was in every instance either cured or greatly ameliorated. The improvement
usually begins at once—after the first or second bath, and continues steadily. As I have not
had occasion to treat by means of electric baths any uncomplicated cases of dyspepsia, I can
adduce none. I may safely claim however for the baths a reliability and bespeak for them a
confidence that I might claim or bespeak for no other remedy or plan of treatment whatsoever—assertions
which would appear rash and venturesome, had I not at my command abundant clinical evidence
to warrant my making them.

                             MELANCHOLIA.

A case of melancholia, highly illustrative of the effects in this condition of electric baths,
came under my notice very recently. It may serve as a guide in the treatment of this and kindred
conditions.

