Put in a saucepan half a teacupful of soup stock, three ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of
salt, one teaspoonful of made mustard, two teaspoonfuls of French mustard, two cloves of garlic
chopped fine, one onion chopped, two green peppers and one pickeled gherkin chopped, one tomato
peeled and cut up, the juice of half a lime and half a lime cut in thin slices. Simmer for
one hour, then add the following: One tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one of Imperial
sauce, one of Tarragon vinegar, two of Bon Gout sauce, two of mushroom catsup, two of walnut
catsup and two tablespoonfuls of chutney, add half a pint of sherry and simmer for fifteen minutes.

This will keep several months.

       *       *       *       *       *

Onion Sauce

Boil three good sized onions, one hour. Drain and put in a stewpan with one-half pint of milk
and one teaspoonful of salt. Simmer for fifteen minutes, then rub through a sieve and put back
in the pan with one-half pint of cream and one ounce of butter.

Simmer ten minutes and serve very hot.

       *       *       *       *       *

Garlic Sauce

Rub together in a mortar until smooth, two ounces of butter, two cloves of garlic and one teaspoonful
of salt. Add a tablespoonful of lime juice and one-half a pint of melted butter. Beat until
light and smooth, when it is ready to serve.

       *       *       *       *       *

Melted Butter

Take one pint of milk and one teaspoonful of salt; when it boils stir into it three ounces
of butter, a little cayenne and two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed into it. Let it boil one
minute and serve at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

Salad Dressing Without Oil

Put in a double saucepan the yolks of three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, pepper, cayenne,
and one tablespoonful of dry mustard. Mix well and sift in two tablespoonfuls of flour. Add
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and four of water. Stir until quite smooth. Place over the
fire, stirring continually one way. As soon as it thickens remove from the fire and beat in
three ounces of butter. Use when cool.

VEGETABLES

Asparagus aux Milanaise

Boil large choice asparagus until tender. Put a layer of stalks upon the dish on which they
are to be served. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little grated Parmesan cheese.
Make three layers of this and pour over all a little melted butter. Break on top a fresh egg
for each person, and put in the oven until set. Serve very hot. To be served individually,
six stalks may be placed on each dish, covered with cheese, and an egg broken over them. Serve
after placing in the oven a few moments.

       *       *       *       *       *

Corn au Gratin

Score down twelve ears of boiled corn, and with the back of a knife press out the kernels.
Put them into a baking dish with a large piece of butter, salt, pepper, a finely chopped green
pepper and a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese. Place in a hot oven until
just browned and serve immediately.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chonfleur au Gratin

Boil a large cauliflower twenty minutes in salted water. When tender drain and put on the dish
on which it is to be served. Make a sauce of two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour and half
a pint of milk, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, salt and cayenne. Mix this well, putting
in the cheese last. Pour it over the cauliflower and sprinkle more cheese over the top. Set
in a hot oven until browned and serve at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

Okra

Cut the stems off of young okra pods and boil in water until the seeds turn red, which should
be in half an hour. Drain and toss in a pan with butter, salt, pepper and cayenne.

       *       *       *       *       *

Potato Cream

Boil six medium-sized, mealy potatoes and when soft press them through a sieve until light
and floury. Then beat into them the raw yolks of six eggs and a little milk and butter. Season
with salt and pepper and sprinkle with finely chopped chevril and thyme, and fine dice of fried
bread before serving.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sweet Potatoes

Take six good sized sweet potatoes and boil until nearly done. Then peel them and roll in melted
butter, lay in a buttered baking pan. Sprinkle with brown sugar and bake until done.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chili Beans

Take four cups of red beans, one onion, four cloves of garlic, cover with water and cook all
day in a covered saucepan. Add a little water from time to time if too dry. Cook slowly four
red peppers and five black peppers with seeds out, three black peppers with seeds, four cloves
of garlic, four onions with the hearts taken out, salt, and one cup of beef stock. Rub through
a sieve. Put in a saucepan four tablespoonfuls of marrow. When very hot add the beans and then
the sauce.

       *       *       *       *       *

To Boil Rice

Have plenty of salted water, with the juice of a lime in it. When boiling add rice that has
been washed in three waters. Boil fast for sixteen minutes. Try a grain, and if done dash in
a glass of cold water. Drain at once through a colander. Cover with a cloth and let stand by
the fire for a few minutes, shaking up the colander once or twice. This will make every grain
separate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Risotto

Fry two chopped onions in butter until light brown in color. Add one cup of raw rice and cover
with beef stock. As the rice absorbs the stock add more until done. Then add two large tomatoes
stewed with a little sugar and highly seasoned. Place on the dish for serving and grate Parmesan
cheese over it.

SALADS

Club Salad

Boil separately two carrots, two turnips, and four potatoes. When cold, cut the vegetables
into dice and mix them together, adding three apples peeled and cut into small bits. Toss in
a large salad bowl with several olives for garnish. Bits of celery or cold cauliflower may
be added. Pour over all a mayonnaise, or if preferred, a French dressing. Another dressing
that is excellent with this salad is one made of the yolks of four raw eggs beaten into half
a glass of rich cream which may be either sweet or sour. To this add one teaspoonful of salt,
one of mustard and a wineglassful of vinegar, blending carefully.

       *       *       *       *       *

Winter Salad

Cut the white stalks of a head of celery into small bits. Mix with two boiled potatoes cut
in dice, two or three boiled beets cut in dice, a large white onion boiled and cut up, some
chopped truffles, anchovies and stoned olives, a tablespoonful or more of each. Serve with
mayonnaise.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cheese Straws to Serve with Salad

Make a paste of two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of flour, two ounces of butter,
the yolk of one egg, salt and cayenne. Roll out the paste until about one-eighth of an inch
thick. Cut into very narrow strips and place on a buttered tin. Bake ten minutes in a hot oven.

DESSERTS AND CAKES

Mince Meat

Measure carefully and mix together the following ingredients: Two pounds of roast beef finely
chopped, two pounds of chopped beef suet, two pounds of chopped peeled apples, two pounds of
seeded raisins, two pounds Sultana raisins, two pounds of washed currants, two pounds of white
sugar, one pound of citron cut in bits, one pound of dried orange peel, two nutmegs grated,
three teaspoonfuls of ground mace, three teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, three teaspoonfuls
of ground cinnamon, one teaspoonful of salt, the grated rind and juice of two oranges, one
quart of brandy, one quart of sherry and one glass of blackberry jelly. After mixing thoroughly
place the mince meat in a stone jar and use it from this.

