"They said that wheel was in case o' accidents. John Bunyan spoke right up an' said, 'Why,
does the accidents ever happen to the automobile?' 'N' the men laughed some more. Then they
got in 'n' started to start, 'n' it would n' start. It snuffed 'n' chuffed to beat the band,
but it would n't budge for love nor money nor the man in goggles. He jerked 'n' twisted, 'n'
then all of a sudden it run backward, 'n' went over Mr. Dill's dog 's was asleep in the way,
'n' into the lamp-post, 'n' bu'st the post off short. Well, you never see the beat! They wanted
to settle the dog for the same 's the minister, but Mr. Dill would n't hear to it for a minute,
'cause he said his dog was worth suthin'. Judge Fitch come up 'n' said the town 'd want three
dollars for the lamp-post, 'n' they paid that, 'n' then they tried to arbitrate the dog; 'n'
in the end Mr. Dill took eleven dollars an' fifteen cents, 'cause his collar 's still good.
Then they got into the automobile again an' twisted the crank the other way, an' it kited across
the square an' right over Gran'ma Mullins. She was on her way to ask if it was true about you
'n' the deacon, an' it was plain 's she wa'n't in no disposition to enjoy bein' run over by
nothin'. I never see her so nigh to bein' real put out; 'n' even after they 'd settled with
her for five dollars, she still did n't look a bit pleased or happy. Mrs. Craig 'n' me went
with her into Mr. Shores' 'n' helped her straighten her bonnet 'n' take a drink o' water, 'n'
then she said she s'posed it was true about you an' the deacon, 'n' 't, so help her Heaven,
she never would 'a' believed 's either o' you had so little sense. She said to tell you 't
all she 's got to say is 't if he deceives you like he 's deceived her, you 'll know how it
feels to have him deceive you 's well 's she knows how it feels to of had him deceive her.
She says she's goin' to take a hammer an' smash that nut 'n' that daguerre'type into a thousand
smithereens this very afternoon."

"I 'm sorry 's--" said Mrs. Lathrop, regretfully.

"While we was sittin' there talkin', in come Mrs. Macy, with her cat over her arm, to ask if
there was enough of it left to make a muff. Seems 't when the automobile headed out o' town
they come on the cat crossin' the road, 'n' afore she knew 's there was a death in the family
they was tryin' to settle the cat at a dollar. Said she never see the beat o' the way the cat
was ironed flat; she jus' stood 'n' stared, 'n' then they offered her two dollars. She took
the two dollars an' come to town, 'n' 'f there ain't enough for a muff, she 'll have a cap
with the tail over her ear. She wanted to know if it was true about you 'n' the deacon, an'
she tried to swing the cat around 's if she did n't care, but it was easy seen she did. She
said she would n't have the deacon for a gift, 'n' I told her 's there was others havin' to
admit the same thing. I says to her, I says: 'There's a good many in this town 's won't have
the deacon, but it ain't for lack o' tryin' to get him, Lord knows.' Jus' then we see the man
with the cap 's does the settlin' for damages tearin' by the window afoot. We run to the door
an' sec him grab Mr. Sweet's bicycle 'n' ride away on it; 'n' it did n't take no great brains
to guess 's suthin' fresh had happened under the automobile. A little while after the man with
goggles an' Mr. Jilkins come walkin' into the square, a-leadin' Mr. Jilkins's horse. The horse
was pretty well splintered up, 'n' the harness was hangin' all out o' tune; the man with goggles
looked to be upset, 'n' Mr. Jilkins looked like he 'd been upset 'n' was awful mad over it.
Every one went to know what it was; an' I will say, Mrs. Lathrop, 's I never hear such a story
o' unforeseen miseries pilin' up. Seems 't when Mr. Jilkins went home las' night 'n' told his
wife about you 'n' the deacon, they decided to come to town right off to-day 'n' try to argue
common sense into him. Mr. Jilkins said 't he was n't afraid o' the property goin' out o' the
family, 'cause you 'n' the deacon could n't naturally expect nothin' but grandchildren at your
age; but he said they jus' did n't want him married, 'n' they was goin' to see 't he did n't
get drug into it. So they took the horse 'n' the colt an' the democrat 'n' started up to town
this mornin', 'n' jus' beyond the bridge they met the automobile warmin' up from Mrs. Macy
'n' her cat. Mr. Jilkins says his horse ain't afraid o' nothin' on earth only threshin'-machines,
men asleep, 'n' bicycles; but it never 'd seen a' automobile afore, 'n' it jumped right into
it. Well, him in goggles 'n' his friend in damages jumped right out, 'n' the automobile run
into the fence an' run over the colt, 'n' spilled Mr. and Mrs. Jilkins 'n' the horse all out.
The horse fell down 'n' Mrs. Jilkins could n't get up, 'n' the man in the cap wanted to settle
for five hundred dollars right on the spot. Then they went to work an' got the tool-box, 'n'
got the horse up, 'n' he seemed to be all right, only pretty badly marred; an' they backed
the automobile out o' the fence an' give Mrs. Jilkins a drink out o' their bottle, 'n' tucked
her up warm in the seat, an' then set to work on the democrat. They was gettin' everythin'
all straightened out neat 's a pin when, all of a sudden, Mrs. Jilkins give a yell, an' they
looked up to see the automobile kitin' off up the hill, 'n' her screamin' an' wavin' her hands;
'n' the next thing they see, she went over the top o' the hill 'n' out o' sight."

Miss Clegg stopped; Mrs. Lathrop drew in her breath.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, seems to me I never hear nothin' to equal that in all my born days. Mrs.
Jilkins off in a' automobile alone! 'N' the man in the cap see it jus' 's I did, for he wanted
to settle for a thousand, spot cash, then 'n' there. But Mr. Jilkins would n't settle; there's
no denyin' Mr. Jilkins saw what a good thing he 'd got when his wife went off in that automobile;
so then the man in the cap hustled in town, got a bicycle, 'n' scurried after her 's fast 's
he could paddle."

"Did they find--?" inquired Mrs. Lathrop.

"Not when I come home they had n't. The man in goggles had took Mr. Jilkins to the hotel for
dinner, 'n' Mr. Jilkins was tickled to death, for he never eat in a hotel in his life before.
If he goes off, he always gets back, or else takes a lunch."

"Are you goin'?" Mrs. Lathrop asked.

"Yes; I 'm goin' down-town again. I 'm goin' right now. I want to know the end 's Mrs. Jilkins
made. 'N' there 's lots o' people 's ain't had no chance yet to ask me if it's true about you
'n' the deacon."

"When's he a-com--?" Mrs. Lathrop asked.

"On the five-o'clock; 'n' he said 's he sh'd come straight up here to settle it all. I s'pose
you 've turned the subjeck round an' round 'n' upside down till you 've come out jus' where
I said you would at first."

"I guess I'll take--"

"I would 'f I was you. Mr. Kimball says Deacon White 's as good help 's any woman can hope
to get hold o' in a place this size, an' I guess he 's hit that nail square on top. I don't
see but what, when all's said an' done, you can really take a deal o' comfort havin' him so
handy. He likes to keep things clean, 'n' you 'll never let him get a chance to go to Satan
emptyhanded. 'N' we can always send him to bed when we want to talk, 'cause bein' 's he 'll
be your husband, we won't never have to fuss with considerin' his feelin's any."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop, thoughtfully.

"O' course there would n't be nothin' very romantic in marryin' the deacon; 'n' yet, when you
come right square down to it, I don't see no good 'n' sufficient reasons for long hair bein'
romantic an' big ears not. Anyway, I sh'd consider 't a man 's can clean a sink, 'n' will clean
a sink, was a sight safer to marry 'n one 's whose big hit was standin' up the ends o' his
mustache. 'N' besides, you can have the man with the sink, 'n' the man with the mustache would
n't even turn round to look at you the first time."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Romance is a nice thing in its place. I 've had my own romances--four on 'em,--'n' not many
women can say that 'n' still be unmarried, I guess. I 've lived 'n' I 've loved, as the books
say; 'n' I 've survived, as I say myself; 'n' you can believe me or not, jus' as you please,
Mrs. Lathrop, but I ain't got no feelin' toward you this night but pity. I would n't be you
if I could--not now 'n' not never. I 'd really liefer be the deacon, 'n' Heaven knows 't he
's got little enough to look forward to hereafter."

"I--" expostulated Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, if you keep me here much longer, I sha'n't get down-town this afternoon;
'n' when you think how near Mrs. Jilkins 's comin' to bein' related to you, it certainly will
look very strange to the community."

As she spoke, Miss Clegg rapidly prepared herself for the street, and with the last words she
went toward the door.

"If the deacon gets here afore I come back," she said, pausing with her hand on the knob, "you
'd better say 's what he told me yesterday in confidence 'n' what I told him in consequence
is still a secret; it 'll be pleasanter for you both so."

"I--" said Mrs, Lathrop.

"Good-by," said Susan.

Mrs. Lathrop slept some that afternoon and rocked more. She experienced no very marked flutterings
in the region of her heart; indeed, she was astonished herself at the calmness of her sensations.

The deacon had not come when Susan returned. Susan looked somewhat puzzled.

"Anybody been here since me?" she inquired, not facing her friend, but examining the stovepipe
with interest.

"No; no--"

"Mrs. Jilkins is all safe," she said next.

"I'm so--"

"That automobile run 'way past Cherry Pond, 'n' their hired man see her ridin' by 'n' made
after her on a mule. The gasolene give out before the mule did, so he hauled her home, 'n'
the man in the cap come 'n' took the automobile back to town."

"So it's all--"

"They all landed over at the drug-store 'n' got in 'n' started out fresh. Mr. Jilkins settled
for the five hundred, 'n' they went off feelin' real friendly. They run out across the square,
an' then--" Susan hesitated. "You got a shock yesterday," she said, still not looking at her
friend, but speaking sympathetically, "'n' it seems too bad to give you another to-day; but
you 'll have to know--"

"Heaven pro--" cried Mrs. Lathrop.

"They run over the deacon comin' out o' the station. They did n't see him, an' he did n't see
them. He ain't dead."

Mrs. Lathrop was silent.

"Mrs. Allen took him home. Of course that means Polly 'll get him in the end."

Mrs. Lathrop was silent for a long time. Finally she said very deliberately:

"Maybe it's just as--"

"It's better," said her friend, with decision; "for the man settled with the deacon for fifteen
hundred."

       *       *       *       *       *

                          OLD MAN ELY'S PROPOSAL

Mrs. Lathrop had been dumbfounded to see a horse and wagon being driven into her neighbor's
yard a little before noon one warm spring day. Her eyesight was not good enough to identify
the horse's driver, but she hung breathlessly in her kitchen window and peered gaspingly out
upon his boldness and daring during the whole four minutes that it took him to hitch to a clothes-pole;
and then, when the fell deed was accomplished, she watched him go in by the kitchen door, and
waited, with a confidence born of a very good understanding of her neighbor's views as to driving
in and hitching, to see him cast ignominiously forth by Miss Clegg.

But even that omniscience of a friend's habits which may be acquired during a next-door residence
for years sometimes fails, and Mrs. Lathrop, after an hour of more or less active bobbing in
the window that commanded the best view of the rear of the house on the other side of the fence,
was forced to see that the caller, whoever he might be, was not cast forth, and a further hour's
attention showed that he did not quit the premises either just before or just after dinner.
When Mrs. Lathrop had quite settled the last point to her complete satisfaction and un-understanding,
she decided to give up watching and to go to sleep as usual. She slept until four in the afternoon,
and when she awoke and hurried to the window the horse and wagon were gone. Susan seemed gone
too, for her house looked very shut up and sounded more than silent. So Mrs. Lathrop went back
forthwith to her chair and slept again, and the next time she awakened it was her friend's
voice that awakened her, as the latter stood over her and demanded briskly,

"Well, did you see him?"

"I--oh--oh--I--" began Mrs. Lathrop, vaguely.

"I thought you could n't but see him," said Susan, "hitchin' his horse to one o' my clothes-poles
as large as life. If it 'd been any day in his life but this one I 'd surely of told him frank
'n' open my views on hitchin' to my clothes-poles, but bein' as it was to-day I only told him
my views on drivin' over my grass."

"But--" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"The horse did n't bite the pole," continued Susan; "he said as he wa'n't no cribber. I told
him it wa'n't cribs as was the question, but clothes-poles, an' I might of spoken some stronger,
but just then he stepped on the edge of the cistern cover 'n' I got such a turn as drove everythin'
else clean out o' my mind. You know how easy it is to turn that cover, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' I
must say that if he and it had fell in together there'd have been a fine tale to tell, for
the cover always sinks straight to the bottom, 'n' is no joke to find 'n' fish up,--you and
I both know that. Ever since the brace give way I 've always got it on my mind to keep the
clothes-bars sittin' over it, but now the brace in the clothes-bars is give way too 'n' as
a consequence they won't sit over nothin' no more. If money was looser I 'd certainly never
spare it gettin' them two braces mended, but money bein' tight and me alone in the house 'n'
the most of my callers them as it 's all one to me whether I see 'em in the parlor or in the
cistern, I ain't botherin'. I was never one to worry an' scurry unnecessarily, Mrs. Lathrop,
an' you know that as well as I do, 'n' to-day I had my mind all done up in my curtains anyway,
'n' I was more'n' a little put out over bein' interrupted, even by a man as come in through
the woodshed door, that I never bolt 'cause it 's a understood thing as woodshed doors is not
to be come in at. The turn he give me when I hear him clutterin' aroun' in the woodshed!--I
thought he was rats, an' then a cat, an' then a rat an' a cat come together, an' then all of
a sudden I see him an' remembered the cistern cover."

"But who--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

Susan looked surprised.

"Why, I thought you said you seen him," she said; "you certainly give me that impression, Mrs.
Lathrop. I 'd have took any vow anywhere as I asked you if you seen him 'n' you said you did.
It's funny if you did n't for he drove hisself in 'n' hitched hisself too, 'n' me up in the
garret when he done it, foldin' off my curtains to iron. My, to think how I did hate the idea
o' ironin' them curtains! Mother always ironed the curtains. She said I was young n' she did
n't mind anyhow. I ain't washed 'em since. I 've been in the habit o' sayin' I was afraid it'd
bring mother over me too much to take 'em down without her. That 's a thing as this community
can easy understand, f'r they leave all their hard work layin' around for any reason a tall,
and although I can't in reason deny as in most ways they 're as different from me as anything
can be from me, still when it comes to ironin' curtains the stove is as hot on the just as
on the unjust 'n' you can't mention nothin' hotter."

"Did you--" said Mrs. Lathrop, sympathetically.

"Well, I sh'd say I did. What I set out to do I always do whether it's curtains or Mr. Kimball.
Mr. Kimball has got a great idea as to his sharpness, but I guess if our sharp ends was under
a microscope, he 'd be the needle an' me the bee-sting most every day. It was too bad you was
n't to that lecture, Mrs. Lathrop,--I did learn a great deal. Not just about the sting, but
some very handy things. It seems if you go among 'em quietly, they 'll let you take the honey
out any time 'n' you can buy the queens by mail in a box 'n' they 'll lay a whole hive alone
by themselves in no time. Mrs. Macy said she thought some of sendin' for one or two queens
'n' settin' 'em up in business in bushel baskets, but when she went home 'n' looked the baskets
over 'n' thought what work it'd be to clean the honey out of 'em each fall she give up the
idea. She's going to set out a orange tree in a flower pot instead. It says in the 'Ladies'
Home Diary' as they grow very nicely so."

"But who--" interrupted Mrs. Lathrop, wrinkling up her face somewhat over the long strain on
her eager attentiveness.

"But I thought you said you seen him," said her friend, with a second recurrence of her surprised
expression; "did n't you see him when you see him drivin' in? He was holdin' the reins at the
big end o' the whip, I should suppose. I can't well see how you saw everythin' else without
seein' him. He was some better dressed 'n' usual but it just shows what bein' left a widower
does for a man. It seems to somehow put new spirit in 'em 'n' sets 'em to wearin' ties again.
Why, do you know when he come to go he actually asked me to ride a piece with him 'n' show
him which finger-post to turn in to, an' I will say as, where I would n't of dreamed o' ridin'
with him a week ago, I went to-day an' really enjoyed it. Yes, I did."

"Was it--" cried Mrs. Lathrop, with a sudden gleam of intuition.

Susan looked surprised for the third time.

"Why, of course," she said, "who else could it be?" Then she left her position near the door,
came over nearer to her friend, took a chair and began to untie her bonnet.

"I don't know as I 'm surprised over your bein' surprised, Mrs. Lathrop," she continued in
a slightly milder tone after a brief pause for vocal renovation. "I will confess as I was really
nothin' but surprised myself. I supposed as a matter o' course that to-day he was in Meadville
buryin' her, 'n' when I first see him the funeral was so strong in my mind as I thought he'd
druv over to maybe borrow father's black bow for his front door. I made my mind right up to
tell him straight to his face as he couldn't have it, for I told you once as I was keepin'
that bow for you, Mrs. Lathrop, an' when I promise anybody anythin' I keep my word, whether
it's a receipt or a bow for their own funeral, an' when I saw old man Ely it didn't take me
no two minutes to keep my word the same as ever,--'n' father's black bow too. But laws, he
was n't after no bow!--I very quickly found out as all as he was after was the funeral, f'r
it seems as they was uncommonly spry with it. He told me right off as they had it pretty prompt
too, for he says when it comes to buryin' a wife there 's no need for a man to go slow, 'n'
so he had all Meadville up with the lark 'n' out after old Mrs. Ely. He seemed to feel all
of a sudden as it was a little awkward me not havin' been there, but I saw how he felt 'n'
made his mind easy by tellin' him frank 'n' open that it was n't nothin' agin his wife as kept
me here, for when it come right square down to it I did n't know any one as I 'd enjoy their
funeral more 'n gettin' my curtains ironed; an' I may in truth repeat to you as that 's so,
Mrs. Lathrop, for although it may seem hard at first hearin', still we both know what it is
to iron curtains, 'n' my motto always is as a live lion has rights above a dead dog, and the
proverb says as the dead is always ready to bury the dead anyhow. Old man Ely seemed to look
on it much as I did, for he did n't fiddle about none with his affairs, but came right to the
point an' told me fair an' square as, not havin' anythin' particular on hand after it was over,
an' seein' clear as he was three miles out of his way anyhow, he 'd thought he 'd come on as
far as Pete Sanderson's 'n' see about a cow as he 'd heard Pete had, 'n' then after that it
looked to him like it was pretty much a day for odd jobs straight through, so he come over
here to get some graftin's from our grape-vine. He said as father 'd told him once as he could
have some graftin's from the porch-vine if he 'd come and cut 'em, 'n' so he was come. I told
him as when it was n't nothin' more important than grape-vines father's words was ever my laws;
so he went out 'n' cut some pieces from the Virginia creeper an' come in perfectly satisfied,
'n' I may in confidence remark as I was satisfied too for I was n't overpleased to have him
meddlin' with the porch-vine. I will remark, though, as his cuttin' Virginia creeper for grape-vines
did amuse me some, for it's been a well-known fact for years as Mrs. Ely was Mr. Ely in everythin'
but the clothes he wore, 'n' they say the way she managed to figger-head him through plantin'
'n' harvest, 'n' pasture 'n' punkins, was nothin' short of genius, bred in the bone 'n' bustin'
out every seam.

"Howsomesoever, he stayed 'n' stayed 'n' I ironed 'n' ironed, 'n' we talked about the farm
'n' father 'n' how well he remembered father 'n' what a good daughter I was 'n' what a good
wife Mrs. Ely was 'n' how well he was goin' to bear it, 'n' I begun to wonder when he was intendin'
to go or whether he was thinkin' of stayin' all day, 'n' at last there was nothin' but to ask
him to dinner, 'n' I was n't intendin' to have no dinner on a'count o' the curtains. It's a
very hard thing, Mrs. Lathrop, when you're not intendin' to have dinner to have to invite company
for it, but there did n't seem no way to help it. I could n't in decency more than mention
as Mrs. Brown was to home an' I knowed as the Fishers was give to Irish stew on Tuesdays, but
no, sir, there he sat like a bump on a log 'n' in the hind end I could n't but ask him to stay
'n' have just cold pork 'n' beans on a'count o' the funeral. 'N' so he stayed. I set my irons
back with a heavy heart 'n' said it seemed like some days misfortunes never come single, for
I 'd already seen a water-bug in the kitchen that very mornin'; but he seemed to have decided
to be thick-skinned, so I put on the tea-kettle 'n' brought out the pork 'n' beans 'n' we sat
down to eat."

"Was--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, I should think he was," replied Susan. "I never see such a appetite. He eat pork 'n'
beans like he thought they was twins off a vine, 'n' I had to finally get up 'n' clear away
to save any a tall. I set the tea-kettle by him 'n' told him to end by havin' all the tea he
wanted to pour through the leaves by himself, 'n' I went back to my ironin'. He sat there 'n'
drank tea very happy for a long spell. Seemed like it sort o' thawed him out, 'n' finally he
begin to talk about her, 'n' once he got started on that he never quit. I ironed curtains 'n'
listened 'n' let him talk. It was n't long afore he begin to show the disadvantages o' bein'
dead, for he said as he was always the practical one of them both, 'n' he'd never have dared
say that with old Mrs. Ely on top of the earth. I was amused at his sayin' it anyhow, with
the Virginia creeper graftin's there in a tomato-can bearin' witness agin him, but I didn't
say nothin'. He asked me if I'd believe as she was really a very fair-lookin' girl when they
was married. I couldn't but stop at that 'n' ask him if it was ever possible as her nose was
ever any different, 'n' he had to say 'No, not any different;' 'n' I can assure you as he set
'n' rubbed his chin with his hand a long time afterwards 'n' then drew a big breath 'n' said
'No, not any different.' I felt to respect his feelin's 'n' did n't say nothin', 'n' after
a while he went on an' said that they was very happy married on the whole, 'n' then he rubbed
his chin with his hand a nother long while 'n' said over again 'on the whole.' He asked me
then if I ever heard how he came to marry her first 'n' I said as I always hear as it was to
get the farm. He kind of flared up at that 'n' said there never was nothin' agin her but her
nose, 'n' at that I took a fresh iron 'n' said he asked me a plain question 'n' I give him
a plain answer, which, considerin' his horse 'n' my clothes-pole 'n' her nose, was all as could
in reason be expected of me. He softened down at that 'n' said as he was n't by no means meanin'
to make light of his dead wife's nose, 'n' I said as, speakin' o' Mrs. Ely's nose bein' the
one thing agin' her, it was the joy of every other person as met her as it was agin her 'n'
not agin them, for it was a well-known fact as Mr. Kimball had said hunderds of times as if
he had that nose an' leaned over a bridge 'n' see it in the water he 'd be willin' to let it
overbalance him then 'n' there 'n' be drowned forever. He got pretty meek at that, for it showed
as I was in earnest, 'n' he went on to say as it was large, but he said as afore she took to
that way of kind o' shrinkin' back of it it did n't look so large, 'n' anyway she was his married
'n' buried wife. I told him I was certainly glad to know that, seein' as they 'd lived together
so many years, 'n' then he said it 'd really be nothin' but a joy to him to tell me how he
come to marry her, so I said I 'd listen 'n' welcome 'n' he started in.

"I must say this, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' that is that I soon see as it was lucky as I was n't feelin'
no special call to talk any myself, for he set out in a most steady sort of a discouragin'
down-pour, kind of cross-your-legs 'n' clear-your-throat, 'n' I see as I was in for it 'n'
just let him pour, for feelin's catches us all ways 'n' whatever he felt about old Mrs. Ely
it was plain as some one had got to hear it to the last drop. So I let him drop away, 'n' I
will in all fairness say, as a more steady spout I never see no one under. He never seemed
to consider as how me or any one might perhaps enjoy to maybe make a remark from time to time,
'n' even when he ain't talkin' he 's got that way o' rubbin' his chin as makes it seem most
impolite to bu'st in on. I didn't care much, though, 'cause I had the curtains, 'n' besides
I may in confidence state as when I really felt to speak I sailed right in anyhow 'n' spoke
what I wanted to. For I never was one to sit by 'n' have my tail calmly trod on, as you 'n'
a great many others knows to your cost, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' then, too, each time when I see as
he was nigh to tippin' into the cistern it was really nothin' but a joy to him to know it in
time to hitch away."

"Did--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"In the first place," said Susan, "he asked me if I 'd mind his smokin' his pipe, 'n' I told
him I most certainly would, so that ended that subjeck right up square at the beginnin'. Then
he said he 'd been married nigh on to forty years 'n' I told him to look out for the cistern
'n' he hitched along a piece 'n' begin again. 'N' then he seemed set a-goin' for keeps.

"Seems, Mrs. Lathrop, as he never had no family, but he says he was a very handsome young fellow
for all that. I looked pretty hard at him, but he stuck to it 'n' I let it go. He went on to
say as he growed up anyhow 'n' drifted to Meadville when he was long about twenty-four, 'n'
went on to the Pearson farm. Oh, my, but he says that was a stony farm! I tell you but he rubbed
his chin with his hand a long while afore he said all over again, 'but that was a stony farm!'
An' the gophers!--Well, he says whatever the Recordin' Angel has got down he bets he's skipped
some o' them gophers. He says the hairs on your head is a mere joy to reckon up, 'n' fallin'
sparrows too, beside them gophers. He says savin' a cent in the time o' Egypt 'n' seein' what
you 'd have now if you 'd only done it, is nothin' to the way them gophers on the Pearson farm
was give to givin' in marriage. He says as it was a very stony farm, 'n' in between every two
stones was one hole 'n' half a dozen gophers to a hole, in the single season. He says ploughin'
was like churnin' with nothin' but stones 'n' gophers in the churn. He says they was that tame
they'd run up your legs 'n' up the horses' legs; he said maybe I would n't believe it, 'n'
I told him I certainly would n't, so then he went on to another subjeck.

"He says he used to plough through them gophers all day 'n' court Tilly all night. Tilly was
old Mrs. Ely. He says she 'd never been courted on a'count of her nose, but he said he wanted
a farm bad enough to be willin' to never forget to tip his face pretty well crossways. He says
she was so happy bein' courted that at first it made the gophers just seem like nothin' a tall,
'n' he says as you can't maybe get the full sense o' that but it's there just the same. I tell
you, Mrs. Lathrop, you can see that man has suffered. I asked him was he afraid of mice too,
'n' he bristled up pretty sharp 'n' said he wa'n't afraid of gophers, only they took you so
unawares. I had to tell him right there to look out for the cistern lid, 'n' he hitched over
by the table again 'n' then he said, Well, so it went all summer. He said he got so tired o'
gophers, 'n' moonlight, 'n' hittin' her nose hard by accident, times when he was n't thinkin',
as he was nothin' but glad when September come 'round. He says he 'd figgered all along on
bein' married in September, 'n' he never for one moment mistrusted as he wouldn't be; but he
says of all the awful things to count on, Tilly Pearson was the worst. Oh! my, he says, but
she was cranky! 'n' then he rubbed his chin with his hand a long while 'n' then said 'cranky,'
over again in a very hard tone. He says would you believe it that after all his love-makin'
along the first o' September she begin to get terrible uppish 'n' throw her head aroun' 'n'
put on airs 'n' he was just dumbfounded at her goin's on."

"What--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Then he says one awful day when he was stackin' straw, Old Pearson told him flat 'n' plain
as if he was n't goin' to marry Tilly, he need n't count on spendin' the winter as their company.
Well, he says you can maybe realize what a shock that was. He says his nose was just smashed
numb 'n' his sleep was full o' grabbin' at 'em in his dreams 'n' now it looked like all was
for nothin' a tall. Still he says he scraped up a smile 'n' a cheerful look 'n' told Old Pearson
as he was more 'n willin' to marry Tilly for his winter's board but it was Tilly as was makin'
the trouble. He says Old Pearson looked sort of surprised at that, but he thought a little
while 'n' then he told him as if he was smart he 'd find a way to bring Tilly to her senses,
'cause every woman had some way to be brought to her senses, 'n' then he went off 'n' left
him to think.

