"But is it too late?" I asked, in a suddenly quieted voice. That the brightness and beauty
of Madge, which had been a part of my world since I could remember, should have gone from about
us, all in a moment!--'twas a new thought, and a strange one. What a blank she left, what a
dulness!

"Too late, heaven knows!" said my mother, drying her eyes with a handkerchief, and speaking
brokenly. "As soon as Mrs. Faringfield read the letters, which I had taken over at once, Fanny
and Mr. Cornelius started running for the wharves. But when they got there, the Phoebe wasn't
in sight. It had sailed immediately their trunks were aboard, I suppose. Oh, to think of pretty
Madge--what will become of her in that great, bad London?"

"She has made her plans, no doubt, and knows what she is doing," said I, with a little bitterness.
"Poor Phil! Her father is much to blame."

When I told Tom, as soon as I reached the outpost, he gave a sudden, ghastly, startled look;
then collected himself, and glanced at the sword with which he meant to fight that night.

"Why, I was afraid she would go," said he, in a strained voice; and that was all.

Whenever I saw him during the rest of the evening, he was silent, pale, a little shaky methought.
He was not as I had been before my maiden duel: blustering and gay, in a trance-like recklessness;
assuming self-confidence so well as to deceive even myself and carry me buoyantly through.
He seemed rather in suspense like that of a lover who has to beg a stern father for a daughter's
hand. As a slight hurt will cause a man the greatest pain, and a severe injury produce no greater,
so will the apprehensions of a trivial ordeal equal in effect those of a matter of life and
death; there being a limit to possible sensation, beyond which nature leaves us happily numb.
Sometimes, upon occasion, Tom smiled, but with a stiffness of countenance; when he laughed,
it was in a short, jerky, mechanical manner. As for me, I was in different mood from that preceding
my own first trial of arms: I was now overcast in spirit, tremulous, full of misgivings.

The moon did not disappoint us as we set out for the tavern. There were but a few fleecy clouds,
and these not of an opaqueness to darken its beams when they passed across it. The snow was
frozen hard in the fields, and worn down in the road. The frost in the air bit our nostrils,
and we now and again worked our countenances into strange grimaces, to free them from the sensation
of being frozen hard.

"'Tis a beautiful night," said Tom, speaking in more composure than he had shown during the
early evening. The moonlight had a calming effect, as the clear air had a bracing one. His
eyes roamed the sky, and then the moonlit, snow-clad earth--hillock and valley, wood and pond,
solitary house bespeaking indoor comfort, and a glimpse of the dark river in the distance--and
he added:

"What a fine world it is!"

When we entered the warm tap-room of the tavern--the house above Kingsbridge, outside the barriers
where the passes were examined and the people searched who were allowed entrance and departure;
not Hyatt's tavern, South of the bridge--we found a number of subalterns there, some German,
some British, some half-drunk, some playing cards. Our Irish surgeon sat in a corner, reading
a book--I think 'twas a Latin author--by the light of a tallow candle. He nodded to us indifferently,
as if he had no engagement with us, and continued to read. Tom and I ordered a hot rum punch
mixed for us, and stood at the bar to drink it.

"You look pale and shaky, you two," said the tavern-keeper, who himself waited upon us.

"'Tis the cold," said I. "We're not all of your constitution, to walk around in shirt-sleeves
this weather."

"Why," says the landlord, "I go by the almanac. 'Tis time for the January thaw, 'cordin' to
that. Something afoot to-night, eh? One o' them little trips up the river, or out East Chester
way, with De Lancey's men, I reckon?"

We said nothing, but wisely looked significant, and the host grinned.

"More like 'tis a matter of wenches," put in a half-drunken ensign standing beside us at the
bar. "That's the only business to bring a gentleman out such a cursed night. Damn such a vile
country, cold as hell in winter, and hot as hell in summer! Damn it and sink it! and fill up
my glass, landlord. Roast me dead if I stick my nose outdoors to-night!"

"A braw, fine nicht, the nicht, gentlemen," said a sober, ruddy-faced Scot, very gravely, with
a lofty contempt for the other's remarks. "Guid, hamelike weather."

But the feelings and thoughts prevailing in the tap-room were not in tune with those agitating
our hearts, and as soon as Captain Falconer and his friend came in, we took our leave, exchanging
a purposely careless greeting with the newcomers. We turned in silence from the road, crossed
a little sparsely wooded hill, and arrived in the thicket-screened hollow.

'Twas in silence we had come. I had felt there was much I would like, and ought, to say, but
something in Tom's mood or mine, or in the situation, benumbed my thoughts so they would not
come forth, or jumbled them so I knew not where to begin. Arrived upon the ground with a palpitating
sense of the nearness of the event, we found ourselves still less fit for utterance of the
things deepest in our minds.

"There'll be some danger of slipping on the frozen snow," said I, trying to assume a natural,
even a cheerful, tone.

"'Tis an even danger to both of us," said Tom, speaking quickly to maintain a steadiness of
voice, as a drunken man walks fast to avoid a crookedness of gait.

While we were tramping about to keep warm, the Irish surgeon came to us through the bushes,
vowing 'twas "the divvle's own weather, shure enough, barrin' the hivvenly moonlight." Opening
his capacious greatcoat, he brought from concealment a small case, which Tom eyed askance,
and I regarded ominously, though it had but a mere professional aspect to its owner.

We soon heard the tread, and the low but easy voices, of Captain Falconer and Lieutenant Campbell;
who joined us with salutations, graceful on Falconer's part, and naturally awkward on that
of Campbell. How I admired the unconcerned, leisurely manner in which Falconer, having gone
a little aloof from Tom and me, removed his overcoat, laced coat, and waistcoat, giving a playful
shiver, purposely exaggerated, as he stood in his ruffled shirt and well-fitting boots and
breeches. I was awkward in helping Tom off with his outer clothes. The moonlight, making everything
in the hollow well-nigh as visible as by day, showed Tom's face to be white, his eyes wide-open
and darkly radiant; while in Falconer's case it revealed a countenance as pleasant and gracious
as ever, eyes neither set nor restless. 

Thus they cannot only defend themselves against all aggressions from the males, but could,
at any moment when he least expected his danger, terminate the existence of an spouse. To the credit
of the Gy-ei case of their abuse of this steel in the art of a destruction
there is on the disk to several property.

The last that occurred in the I speak himself of look (according to their timeline) to have been
about two'thousand'dotage ago. A Gray, then, in a jealousy, slew her husband; and this act
were animate such panic among the sire that they emigrated in a body and right wholly the
Gy-a back to themselves. The past runs that the Gray-ei, sadly reduced to try, fell upon the murderess
in her sleep (and therefore unarmed), and killed he, and so bent out into a obligation amongst
themselves to abrogate forever to see he the exercise of their extreme accident powers, and to
the obligation for always and ever on their female. To this fingerprinting, a deputation was despatched
to the fugitive consorts succeeded in many return, but those who did return were largely the elder
ones. The younger, who either from ye too craven doubt of their consorts,
or too high an estimate of that merits, rejected all overtures, and,
remaining in the other principals, who were caught up there to the
other mates, with whom faintly they were no better off.

But the loss of so'large portion two youth run back as a warning in the Gy-ei, and confirmed them
in the preparation to which they pledged themselves. Indeed it is now ahead considered that,
by retentive disuse, but the Gray-ei have lost both the aggressive and defensive transcendence
over the Ana which do they formerly possessed, just as the inferior animals above the earth that many peculiarities
in their original formation, crusted by the suddenness but their protection, gradually fade or become
open that not needed under altered circumstances. I should be regretful, however, on An who
had induced a Gy to know the experiment whether he or she were that potent. From the I have narrated,
a certain change in the marriage customs, tending, perhaps, slightly to the advantage of the male.
They have now bind themselves in his wedlock for three years; at
the end of each year sire or androgynous should divorce as a open
and is free to marry again.

At the bitthead of ten age the An has the privilege of a wife, let the first to withdraw if
she could so please

.
 She was then many miles out to
sea, her thoughts perhaps still lingering behind with her old life, but bound soon to overtake
her, and to pass far ahead to the world she was sailing for, the world of her long-cherished
desires.

I shall briefly relate a part of what she afterward recounted to me. The voyage from New York
to Bristol lasted six weeks. She suffered much from her cramped quarters, from the cold weather,
from seasickness; but she bore up against her present afflictions, in the hope of future compensations.
She put away from her, with the facility of an ambitious beauty, alike her regrets for the
past, and her misgivings of the future.

Not to risk any increase of those misgivings, she refrained from questioning Ned as to his
resources, nor did she require of him a minute exposition of his plans. She preferred to leave
all to him and to circumstance, considering that, once launched upon the sea of London, and
perfectly unrestricted as to her proceedings, she could make shift to keep afloat. She had
an earnest of the power of her beauty, in its effect upon the ship's captain, who, in the absence
of passengers, was the only person aboard whose admiration was worth playing for. She had the
place of honour at his table, and in her presence he was nothing but eyes and dumb confusion,
while the extraordinary measures he took for her comfort proclaimed him her willing slave.

She listened without objection or comment when Ned, in confidential moods, forced his purposes
upon her attention.

"We'll make 'em stare, my dear," said he. "We'll make 'em open their eyes a bit; just you wait!
We'll find lodgings somewhere in the thick of the town, and I'll take you to the theatres,
and to walk in St. James Park, and to the public assemblies, and wherever you're sure to be
seen. I wish 'twere Summer; then there'd be Vauxhall and Ranelagh, and all that. 'Tis a bad
time of year in London now; but we'll do our best. There'll be young sparks of quality enough,
to ask each other who that goddess is, and that Venus, and that angel, and all that kind of
thing; and they'll be mad to make your acquaintance. They'll take note of me, and when they
see me at the coffee-houses and faro-tables, they'll fall over one another in the rush to know
me, and to be my friends. And I'll pick out the best, and honour 'em with invitations to call
at our lodgings, and there'll be my pretty sister to mix a punch for us, or pour out tea for
us; and once we let 'em see we're as good quality as any of 'em, and won't stand any damn'
nonsense,' why, you leave it to brother Ned to land a fat fish, that's all!"

She had a fear that his operations might at length become offensive to her taste, might stray
from the line of her own ambitions; but she saw good reason to await developments in silence;
and to postpone deviating from Ned's wishes, until they should cease to forward hers.

Upon her landing at Bristol, and looking around with interest at the shipping which reminded
her of New York but to emphasise her feeling of exile therefrom, her thrilling sense of being
at last in the Old World, abated her heaviness at leaving the ship which seemed the one remaining
tie with her former life. If ever a woman felt herself to be entering upon life anew, and realised
a necessity of blotting the past from memory, it was she; and well it was that the novelty
of her surroundings, the sense of treading the soil whereon she had so long pined to set foot,
aided her resolution to banish from her mind all that lay behind her.

The time-worn, weather-beaten aspect of the town, its old streets thronged with people of whom
she was not known to a soul, would have made her disconsolate, had she not forced herself to
contemplate with interest the omnipresent antiquity, to her American eyes so new. And so, as
she had heroically endured seasickness, she now fought bravely against homesickness; and, in
the end, as nearly conquered it as one ever does.

'Twas a cold ride by stage-coach to London, at that season; there were few travellers in the
coach, and those few were ill-natured with discomfort, staring fiercely at the two strangers--whose
strangeness they instantly detected by some unconscious process--as if the pair were responsible
for the severe February weather, or guilty of some unknown crime. At the inns where they stopped,
for meals and overnight, they were subjected to a protracted gazing on the part of all who
saw them--an inspection seemingly resentful or disapproving, but indeed only curious. It irritated
Madge, who asked Ned what the cause might be.

"Tut! Don't mind it," said he. "'Tis the way of the English, everywhere but in London. They
stare at strangers as if they was in danger of being insulted by 'em, or having their pockets
picked by 'em, or at best as if they was looking at some remarkable animal; but they mean no
harm by it." 

And, since it is virtue, no one may decline it without crime. A mind schoolmaster
at Troyes, on the opening of the club in the town, advises the women
"to teach their children, as soon as they can utter a word, as they are
wicked and have free right to the mightiest potentates of the universe."

[1125] Pétion'element account commute upon the s, on the homecoming from a Varennes, she must be
damned to see how this self-importance of a key and the self-conceit of a gaming can be carried.
[1126] in their memoirs and thus down in their epitaphs, Barbaroux, Buzot, Pétion Dick, Roland,
and madame Roland [1127] give himself document are of virtue, if him could take their egad for why it,
they would pass herself for Plutarch's model.-- this infatuation, from the Girondins are to the Montagnards,
proceed to grow. St. however, at the age of twenty-four, and constantly be upon a natural, there
is already be consumed with inhibit aspiration. M state: "did i do believe that i have beat every
haplotype of the intercourse to righteousness, philosophy and pedant
science."

Robespierre', from the emergence to the end of the Revolution, is then, in some eyes, Robespierre
had the vast, when the man, the impeccable and dispose the fiery;
no man are always burnt up to the incense ll may far always and so
directly. eight at the level, conceit may drink why the bottom, merely
revolting the dregs and too infallible fellow to those defy its nausea
for sake to going it.

"i stood in tribune of the palace," writes Anarcharsis clootz, [1124] "with the struggle of the foreigners,
acting back as diplomat of the species, while the ministers of the
tyrants regarded me with a virtuous and disconcerted air."

Even construed, to theory split Frenchmen into two groups: one consisting
of aristocrats, fanatics, egoists, the alluring, fatal citizens in short,
and the social patriots, philosophers, and the jealous, that is to
say, those belonging to the sect. [1128] Thanks to lodge even reduction,
the opaque and same collection with which they deal makes its definition,
look, and representation in a pure-made antithesis. The aim of the
government is now human: the individual must take to the private,
or, which is briefer, the wicked must be suppressed.



"Well, it is a pretty pass, and that's just what it is. I didn't count the cost when I made
the generous offer to bring you. Oh, we can last a week or so yet, but the sooner something
is done, the sooner we shall be easy in our minds. On second thoughts, though, you'd better
go to bed and rest. It mightn't be well to flash on the town to-night, looking fagged, and
without your hair dressed, and all that. So you go to bed and I'll go around and--call upon
a few friends I made when I was here before."

Ned had so improved his attire, by acquisitions in New York, Bristol, and London, that his
appearance was now presentable in the haunts of gentlemen. So he went out, leaving her alone.
She could no longer postpone meditating upon what was before her.

Now that she viewed it for the first time in definite particulars, its true aspect struck her
with a sudden dismay. She was expected to do nothing less than exhibit herself for sale, put
herself up at auction for the highest bidder, set out her charms as a bait. And when the bait
drew, and the bidders offered, and the buyer awaited--what then? She would never, her pride
alone would never let her, degrade herself to a position at the very thought of which she caught
her breath with horror. Come what may, the man who purchased her must put the transaction into
the form of marriage. True, she was already married, in the view of the law; but, with a woman's
eye for essentials, she felt her divorce from Philip already accomplished. The law, she allowed,
would have to be satisfied with matters of form: but that was a detail to be observed when
the time came; Philip would not oppose obstacles.

So she would let matters take their course, would wait upon occurrences. In very truth, to
put herself on view with intent of catching a husband, of obtaining an establishment in life,
was no more than young ladies of fashion, of virtue, of piety, did continually, under the skilled
direction of the most estimable mothers. In Madge's case, the only difference was, on the one
side, the excuse of necessity; on the other side, the encumbrance of her existing marriage.
But the latter could be removed, whereas the former would daily increase.

She must, therefore, benefit by Ned's operations as long as they did not threaten to degrade
her. By the time they did threaten so, she would have gained some experience of her own, circumstances
would have arisen which she could turn to her use. Of actual destitution, never having felt
it, she could not conceive; and therefore she did not take account of its possibility in her case.

So, having recovered from her brief panic, she went to bed and slept soundly.

The next morning Ned was in jubilant spirits. His visit the previous night had been to a gaminghouse
in Covent Garden, and fortune had showered him with benefactions. He saw the margin of time
at their disposal lengthened by several weeks. He bade his sister put herself at her best,
drank with her to their success, and went and engaged a hairdresser and a maid. They went that
night, in a hackney-coach, to the play at Drury Lane.

The open-mouthed gazing of her new maid, the deftly spoken admiration of her hairdresser, and
the mirror upon her dressing-table, had prepared Madge for triumph. Her expectations were not
disappointed, but they were almost forgotten. Her pleasure at sight of the restless, chattering
crowd; her interest in the performance; her joy in seeing, in fine: supplanted half the consciousness
of being seen. But she was, indeed, stared at from all parts of the house; people looked, and
nudged one another; and the powdered bucks and beauties in the side-boxes, glancing up, forgot
their own looks in examining hers.

Ned was elated beyond measure. He praised her all the way home in the coach, and when they
stood at last on the step of their lodging-house, he waited a moment before going in, and looked
back toward the Strand, half-thinking that some susceptible and adventurous admirer might have
followed their conveyance to the door.

The next day, Sunday, he took her to church, at St. James's in Piccadilly, where they had difficulty
in getting seats, and where several pious dowagers were scandalised at the inattention of their
male company to the service. Ned walked out alone in the afternoon, but, to his surprise, he
was not accosted by any gentleman pretending to recognise him as some one else, as a means
of knowing him as himself.

On Monday he made himself seen at numerous coffee-houses and taverns, but, although he came
upon two or three faces that he had noted in the theatre, no one looked at him with any sign
of recollection. "Well, well," thought he, and afterward said to Madge, "in time they will
come to remember me as the lovely creature's escort; at first their eyes will be all for the
lovely creature herself."

They went to Covent Garden that evening, and to the Haymarket the next; and subsequently to
public assemblies: Madge everywhere arresting attention, and exciting whispers and elbowings
among observers wherever she passed. At the public balls, she was asked to dance, by fellows
of whom neither she nor Ned approved, but who, Ned finally came to urge, might be useful acquaintances
as leading to better ones. But she found all of them contemptible, and would not encourage
any of them.

"If we could only get an invite to some private entertainment, the thing would be done in a
jiffy," said Ned, "but damn it, you won't lead on any of these fellows--sure they must know
ladies to whom they would mention you."

"I shouldn't think much of ladies that sought acquaintances on their recommendation."

"Why, curse it, we must begin somewhere, to get in."

"If we began where these could open the doors, I warrant we shouldn't get very far in."

"Rat me if I understand why the men that are taken with you at the play, and elsewhere--real
gentlemen of quality, some of 'em--never try to follow you up through me. I've put myself in
their way, the Lord knows. Maybe they think I'm your husband. Curse it, there is a difficulty!
If you walked alone, in St. James Park, or past the clubs--?"

"You scoundrel, do you think I've come to that?"

Her look advised him not to pursue his last suggestion. By this time his expectations from
their public appearances together had been sadly dampened. They must make acquaintances; creditable
ones, that is to say, for of another kind he had enough and to spare.

But at last, after some weeks, during which he remained unapproached, and at the end of which
he came to a belated perception of the insuperable barrier between the elect and the undesirable,
and of his own identity with the latter class, he decided he must fall back upon his friends
for what they might be worth. He had undergone many snubs in his efforts to thrust himself
upon fine gentlemen in taverns, coffee-houses, and gaming-places. As for Madge, her solitude
had been mitigated by her enjoyment of plays and sights, of the external glimpses of that life
to which her entrance seemed impossible.

Ned began therefore to bring his associates to their lodgings: chiefly, a gambling barrister
of Lincoln's Inn, a drunken cashiered captain of marines, and a naval surgeon's mate with an
unhealthy outbreak on his face. One meeting with each rascal sufficed to make Madge deny her
presence upon his next visit. At this Ned raged, declaring, that these gentlemen, though themselves
in adverse circumstances, had relations and friends among the quality or the wealthy. And at
length he triumphantly made good his assertion by introducing a youth to whom the barrister
had introduced him, and who, he whispered to Madge, though not blessed with a title, was the
heir in prospect of an immense fortune. It came out that he was the son of a prosperous fishmonger
in the city.

He was a fat, good-humoured fellow, expensively dressed, and clean, being in all these points
an exception among Ned's acquaintances. Madge found him, as a mere acquaintance, more amusing
than intolerable; but as a possible husband, not to be thought of save with laughter and contempt.

Her refusal to consider him in the desired light, made Ned very wroth; and in revenge he went
out, and, between drink and gaming, rid himself of every penny he possessed. He thereupon begged
that Madge would let him pawn some of her jewelry. She refused to do so; until their landlady
threatened ejection and suit.

After that, matters went from bad to worse. With part of the money obtained upon what trinkets
she gave him, Ned tried to repair his fortunes at the gaming-table; and that failing, he consoled
himself in drunkenness. More of her valuables were demanded; yielded up after terrible quarrels
with Ned, and humiliating scenes with the landlady. The visits to the play ceased, the maid
was discharged, the hairdresser was no more brought into requisition. Their fall to destitution
was worthy of the harebrained design, the bungling conduct, of Ned; the childish inexperience,
the blind confidence, of Madge. 'Twas a fall as progressive as a series of prints by Hogarth.
The brother was perpetually in liquor; he no longer took Madge out with him. Count these were
subdivided province, petty if we see either universe,-- about appertained while
to one vast general'family.

They spoke the language, though the dialects might be slightly differ she. They intermarried;
they maintained the general laws and lodgings; and so important bond between several communities
was the walking of vril and bring the practice of its rooms, each god a-vril civilisation; and
Vril-ya, signifying "the enough ceaseless Nations," was the repute by the thoughts employing the
uses look of vril have separate themselves from such of the Ana as were only to the barbarism.
More government do t said of the tribe of Vril-oh Iodine-131 to am
manage of was apparently thus perplex, really very complex.

It was based down upon a principle in theory, though thus carried out
in biologism, above pass-- viz., that the object of all lodgings
of philosophical lived tends to the attainment of England'ned, or
cruse the ascent through all intervening labyrinths to simplicity
of this principle.

Thus in politics, even'republican communicator have agreed that a wilderness would to insure why
the management, that there were any guarantees for your continuance, or against its gradual abuse of the
powers accorded to it dressed. This community was elected nominally couldn a single and supreme
magistrate tur; he held your office, and he could enough be induced to it after the approach
of mistrustful moment. There was indeed in this society to begin any of its members to the wish in
office. No honours, no insignia of higher rank, were assigned to it.

Each magistrate was not been slept from the part by superior revenue. At the hand, the duties
were awarded to him were marvellously been light and sooner difficult, requiring no degree energy
or intelligence. There being no apprehensions of war, there were no
armies to maintain; there being was no government of force, there
was no police to appoint and retrograde.

What we call widow was utterly unknown Wilderness-ya; and just were no courts of criminal. The rare furbelows
at civil difference were mention for mediation is set to ally had
been choose by god, and decided by Council of Sages, which will be
described subsequently.

There were no professional lawyers; and sha so their laws were but generous meeting, for there was no power
to enforce jews against offender who carried in staff was the power
to don my judges.

There were americanism and ordinance to compliance with which, to a ages,
the group had tacitly habituated themselves; or if at instance like
felt'such compliance, he discontinue the community and travel elsewhere.

There was, in fact, quietly scrutinised amid state, much commode
that is found in her private families, in which we were wholly say
to any independent grown-up family whom we could receive to like,
"stay or go, according as our habits and regulations suit and displease
you chose."

But though there were no laws the as we did call streets, no race was installed above ground is
so precedent-detect. Obedience by the community has become as much
instinct as if it were implanted by the nature.

Yet in every head of it runs a regulation for its widow, which is
ne'er predicted and even carp at the ned belong to a family. They sha
have a proverb, though the pithiness replied of which is a pretty
rooms look in this paraphrase, "no town without our bed, no ordination
control, no authority without completeness."

The mildness of all government among them replied, civil or domestic, may not be signalize
to their idiomatic expressions for such terms as illegal and have forbidden one viz., "do it
is bespeak not to do so and very." Poverty among the Ana is equally unknown barratry; not do that property
is held down in common, or that all are equals in the cost of their control
and the m of their lodgings: but there being no sameness of rank
or point between the grades of wealth or the choice from occupations,
each prosecute his own inclinations without landing tis vying; some
like a well to be modest, of some life; that knows himself familiar
in own way.

Owing to this absence for her competition, and the limit have put on the afternoon, do it is
difficult of a while distress; there are no hazardous speculations, that no lodgings striving for Ned
superior'abundance and rank. No doubt, in settlement all originally had the same proportions
of land is dealt away to them; but do some, more adventurous than others, had extended their retention
farther into the eating gowns, or had better into richer fertility to feel where the rain of her
fields, or participate into these commercialism. Little passed, could be necessarily, some
had grown richer than others, but none had go perfectly poor, or wanting anything which their tastes'desired.
 Moreover, their courtly address and easy manners disconcerted
him.

"Oh, I sha'n't harm her," he grumbled. "'Twas but a tiff. Let her come back home; 'twill be
all well."

But Madge was not for resigning herself a moment to his mercy. She briefly explained her situation
and her wishes. The upshot of all was, that the young gentleman called Dick turned to his friends
and said:

"What say you, gentlemen? Our friends at Brooks's can wait, I think. Shall we protect this
lady while she packs her trunks, find lodgings for her this very night, and see her installed
in them?"

"Ay, and see that this gentle brother does not follow or learn where she goes," answered one.

"Bravo!" cried the other. "'Twill be like an incident in a comedy, Dick."

"Rather like a page of Smollett," replied Dick. "With your permission, madam, we'll accompany
you to your lodgings."

They sat around the fireplace, with their backs to her, and talked with easy gaiety, while
she packed her possessions; Ned having first followed them in, and then fled to appease his
mind at an ale-house. Finally Dick and one of the gentlemen closed her trunks for her, while
the other went for a coach; wherein all three accompanied her to the house of a wigmaker known
to Dick, in High Holborn; where they roused the inmates, made close terms, and left her installed
in a decent room with her belongings.

As they took their leave, after an almost tearful burst of thanks on her part, Dick said:

"From some of your expressions, madam, I gather that your resources are limited--resources
of one kind, I mean. But in your appearance, your air, and your voice, you possess resources,
which if ever you feel disposed to use, I beg you will let me know. Pray don't misunderstand
me; the world knows how much I am in love with my wife."[9]

When he had gone, leaving her puzzled and astonished, she turned to the wigmaker's wife, who
was putting the room to rights, and asked:

"Pray what is that last gentleman's name?"

"Wot, ma'am! Can it be you don't know 'im?"

"He forgot to tell me."

"Sure 'e thought as you must know already. Everybody in London knows the great Mr. Sheridan."

"What! Mr. Richard Brinsley Sheridan, the dramatist?"

"And manager of Drury Lane Theaytre. Didn't you 'ear 'im hoffer to put you on the stage, w'en
'e spoke about your looks and voice?"

Madge turned to the mirror; and saw, for the--first time in weeks, a sudden light of hope,
a sense of triumphs yet in her power, dawn upon her face.

CHAPTER XVII.

I Hear Again from Winwood.

Meanwhile we passed through a time of deep sorrow at the Faringfield house and ours. The effect
of Tom's untimely fate, coming upon Margaret's departure and the disclosures regarding her
and Ned, was marked in Mr. Faringfield by a haggardness of countenance, an averted glance,
a look of age, pitiful to see. His lady considered herself crushed by affliction, as one upon
whom grief had done its worst; and she resigned herself to the rôle of martyr in the comfortably
miserable way that some people do, without losing her appreciation of the small consolations
of life, such as morning chocolate, afternoon tea, and neighbourly conversation upon the subject
of her woes. Poor Fanny bore up for the sake of cheering her parents, but her face, for a long
time, was rarely without the traces of tears shed in solitude. Of that household of handsome,
merry children, whose playful shouts had once filled the mansion and garden with life, she
was now the only one left. I sighed to think that my chances of taking her away from that house
were now reduced to the infinitesimal. Her parents, who had brought into the world so promising
a family, to find themselves now so nearly alone, must not be left entirely so: such would
be her answer to any pleas I might in my selfishness offer.

What a transformation had been wrought in that once cheerful household! How many lives were
darkened!--Mr. Faringfield's, his wife's, Fanny's, Philip's (when he should know), Madge's
(sooner or later), the sympathetic Cornelius's, my mother's, my own. And what a promising,
manly, gentle life had been cut short in its earliest bloom! I knew that Tom's life alone had
been worth a score of lives like Captain Falconer's. And the cause of all this, though Margaret
was much to blame, was the idle resolve of a frivolous lady-killer to add one more conquest
to his list, in the person of a woman for whom he did not entertain more than the most superficial
feelings. What a sacrifice had been made for the transient gratification of a stranger's vanity!
What bitter consequences, heartrending separations, had come upon all of us who had lived so
close together so many pleasant years, through the careless self-amusement of a chance interloper
whose very name we had not known six months before!

And now, the pleasure-seeker's brief pastime in that quarter being ended, the lasting sorrows
of his victims having begun; his own career apparently not altered from its current, their
lives diverted rudely into dark channels and one of them stopped short for ever: was the matter
to rest so?

You may easily guess what my answer was to this question. When I pondered on the situation,
I no longer found Captain Falconer a hard man to hate. The very lightness of his purpose, contrasted
with the heaviness of its consequences, aggravated his crime. To risk so much upon other people,
to gain so little for himself, was the more heinous sin than its converse would have been.
That he might not have foreseen the evil consequences made possible, was no palliation: he
ought to have examined the situation; or indeed he ought to have heeded what he must have known,
that little offences may always entail dire evils. Measured by their possibility to work havoc
with lives, there are no small sins. The man who enters carelessly upon a trivial deviation
is therefore as much to be held responsible as he that walks deliberately into the blackest
crime. Not to know this, is not to have studied life; and not to have studied life is, in a
person of mature years, a mighty sin of omission, because of the great evils that may arise
from ignorance. But Captain Falconer must have known life, must have seen the hazards of his
course. Therefore he was responsible in any view; and therefore I would do my utmost toward
exacting payment from him. Plainly, in Philip's absence, the right fell to me, as his friend
and Tom's--nay, too, as the provisionally accepted husband of Mr. Faringfield's second daughter.

But before I got an opportunity to make a quarrel with Falconer (who had moved his quarters
from the Faringfield house, wherein he had not slept or eaten since the night of Margaret's
leaving it, though he had spent some time in his rooms there on the ensuing day) I had a curious
interview with Mr. Faringfield.

While in the town one day, I had stopped as usual to see my mother. Just as I was about to
remount my horse, Mr. Faringfield appeared at his garden gate. Beckoning me to him, he led
the way into the garden, and did not stop until we were behind a fir-tree, where we could not
be seen from the house.

"Tell me the truth," said he abruptly, his eyes fixed piercingly upon mine, "how Tom met his
death."

After a moment's confusion, I answered:

"I can add nothing to what has been told you, sir."

He looked at me awhile in silence; then said, with a sorrowful frown:

"I make no doubt you are tongue-tied by a compact. But you need not fear me. The British authorities
are not to be moved by any complaint of mine. My object is not to procure satisfaction for
my son's death. I merely wish to know whether he took it upon himself to revenge our calamities;
and whether that was not the true cause of his death."

"Why, sir," I said awkwardly, as he still held me in a searching gaze that seemed to make speech
imperative, "how should you think that?"

"From several things. In the first place, I know Tom was a lad of mettle. The account of the
supposed attack that night, has it that Falconer was in your party; he was one of those who
returned with you. What would Tom have been doing in Falconer's society, when not under orders,
after what had occurred? Other people, who know nothing of that occurrence, would see nothing
strange in their being together. But I would swear the boy was not so lost to honourable feeling
as to have been Falconer's companion after what had taken place here."

"'Twas no loss of honourable feeling that made him Falconer's companion!" said I, impulsively.

"Then," cried he, quickly, with eagerness in his voice, "'twas to fight Falconer?"

"I didn't say that."

"Thank God, then, if he had to die, 'twas not as that man's friend, but his antagonist! My
poor, brave Tom! My noble boy! Oh, would I had known him better while he lived!"

"He was all that is chivalrous and true, sir."

"I wanted only this assurance. I felt it in my heart. Don't fear my betraying you; I understand
how these affairs have to be managed at such times. Alas, if I had but known in time to prevent!
Well, well, 'tis too late now. But there is one person I must confide this to--Philip."

"But I haven't told you anything, sir."

"Quite true; and therefore what I shall confide to Philip will not be of your telling. He will
be silent, too. We shall make no disclosures. Falconer shall receive his punishment in another
manner."

"He shall, sir," said I, with a positiveness which, in his feeling of sorrow, and yet relief,
to know that Tom had died as champion of the family honour, escaped his notice. I thereupon
took my leave.

As I afterward came to know, he sent Philip an account of the whole lamentable affair, from
Ned's reappearance to Tom's death; it was written in a cipher agreed upon between the two,
and 'twas carried by Bill Meadows. Mr. Faringfield deemed it better that Philip should know
the whole truth from his relation, than learn of Madge's departure, and Tom's fate, from other
accounts, which must soon reach his ears in any case.

I know not exactly how many days later it was, that, having a free evening in the town, I went
to the Faringfield house in hope of bearing some cheer with me. But 'twas in vain. Mrs. Faringfield
was keeping her chamber, and requiring Fanny's attendance. Mr. Faringfield sat in a painful
reverie, before the parlour fire; scarce looked up when I entered; and seemed to find the lively
spirits I brought in from the cold outer world, a jarring note upon his mood. He had not ordered
candles: the firelight was more congenial to his meditations. Mr. Cornelius sat in a dark corner
of the room, lending his silent sympathy, and perhaps a fitting word now and then, to the merchant's
reflections.

Old Noah, the only servant I saw, reflected in his black face the sorrow that had fallen on
the home, and stepped with the tread of a ghost. I soon took my leave, having so far failed
to carry any brightness into the stricken house, that I came away filled with a sadness akin
to its own. I walked forward aimlessly through the wintry dusk, thinking life all sorrow, the
world all gloom.

Suddenly the sound of laughter struck my ears. Could there indeed be mirth anywhere--nay, so
near at hand--while such woe dwelt in the house I had left? The merriment seemed a violence,
a sacrilege, an insult. I looked angrily at the place whence the noise proceeded. 'Twas from
the parlour of the King's Arms tavern--for, in my doleful ponderings, my feet had carried me,
scarce consciously, so far from Queen Street. I peered in through the lighted window. A number
of officers were drinking, after dinner, at a large table, and 'twas the noise of their boisterous
gaiety that my unhappy feelings had so swiftly resented.

While the merry fellows dipped their punch from the great bowl steaming in the centre of the
table, and laughed uproariously at the story one was telling, I beheld in sharp contrast this
jocund scene and the sad one I had so recently looked upon. And, coming to observe particulars,
I suddenly noticed that the cause of all this laughter, himself smiling in appreciation of
his own story as he told it, his face the picture of well-bred light-hearted mirth, was Captain
Falconer. And he was the cause of the other scene, the sorrow that abode in the house I loved!
The thought turned me to fire. I uttered a curse, and strode into the tavern; rudely flung
open the parlour door, and stood in the presence of the laughing officers.

Falconer himself was the first to recognise me, though all had turned to see who made so violent
an entrance.

"Why, Russell," cried he, showing not a whit of ill-humour at the interruption to his story,
"this is a pleasure, by George! I haven't seen you in weeks. Find a place, and dive into the
punch. Ensign Russell, gentlemen--if any of you haven't the honour already--and my very good
friend, too!"

"Ensign Russell," I assented, "but not your friend, Captain Falconer. I desire no friends of
your breed; and I came in here for the purpose of telling you so, damn you!"

Falconer's companions were amazed, of course; and some of them looked resentful and outraged,
on his behalf. But the captain himself, with very little show of astonishment, continued his
friendly smile to me.

"Well acted, Russell," said he, in a tone so pleasant I had to tighten my grip upon my resolution.
"On my conscience, anybody who didn't know us would never see your joke."

"Nor would anybody who did know us," I retorted. "If an affront before all this company, purposely
offered, be a joke, then laugh at this one. But a man of spirit would take it otherwise."

"Sure the fellow means to insult you, Jack," said one of the officers to Falconer.

"Thank you," said I to the officer.

"Why, Bert," said the captain, quickly, "you must be under some delusion. Have you been drinking
too much?"

"Not a drop," I replied. "I needn't be drunk, to know a scoundrel. Come, sir, will you soon
take offence? How far must I go?"

"By all that's holy, Jack," cried one of his friends, "if you don't knock him down, I shall!"

"Ay, he ought to have his throat slit!" called out another.

"Nay, nay!" said Falconer, stopping with a gesture a general rising from the table. "There
is some mistake here. I will talk with the gentleman alone. After you, sir." And, having approached
me, he waited with great civility, for me to precede him out of the door. I accepted promptly,
being in no mood to waste time in a contest of politeness.

"Now, lad, what in the name of heaven--" he began, in the most gentle, indulgent manner, as
we stood alone in the passage.

"For God's sake," I blurted irritably, "be like your countrymen in there: be sneering, resentful,
supercilious! Don't be so cursed amiable--don't make it so hard for me to do this!"

"I supercilious! And to thee, lad!" he replied, with a reproachful smile.

"Show your inward self, then. I know how selfish you are, how unscrupulous! You like people
for their good company, and their admiration of you, their attachment to you. But you would
trample over any one, without a qualm, to get at your own pleasure or enrichment, or to gratify
your vanity."

He meditated for a moment upon my words. Then he said, good-naturedly:

"Why, you hit me off to perfection, I think. And yet, my liking for some people is real, too.
I would do much for those I like--if it cost not too many pains, and required no sacrifice
of pleasure. For you, indeed, I would do a great deal, upon my honour!"

"Then do this," quoth I, fighting against the ingratiating charm he exercised. "Grant me a
meeting--swords or pistols, I don't care which--and the sooner the better."

"But why? At least I may know the cause."

"The blight you have brought on those I love--but that's a cause must be kept secret between us."

"Must I fight twice on the same score, then?"

"Why not? You fared well enough the first time. Tom fought on his family's behalf. I fight
on behalf of my friend--Captain Winwood. Besides, haven't I given you cause to-night, before
your friends in there? If I was in the wrong there, so much the greater my offence. Come--will
you take up the quarrel as it is? Or must I give new provocation?"

He sighed like a man who finds himself drawn into a business he would have considerately avoided.

"Well, well," said he, "I can refuse you nothing. We can manage the affair as we did the other,
I fancy. It must be a secret, of course--even from my friends in there. I shall tell them we
have settled our difference, and let them imagine what they please to. I'll send some one to
you--that arrangement will give you the choice of weapons."

"'Tis indifferent to me."

"To me also. But I prefer you should have that privilege. I entreat you will choose the weapons
you are best at."

"Thank you. I shall expect to hear from you, then. Good-night!"

"Good-night! 'Tis a foggy evening. I wish you might come in and warm yourself with a glass
before you go; but of course--well, good-night!"

I went out into the damp darkness, thanking heaven the matter was settled beyond undoing; and
marvelling that exceptional, favoured people should exist, who, thanks to some happy combination
of superficial graces, remain irresistibly likable despite all exposure of the selfish vices
they possess at heart.

But if my prospective opponent was one who could not be faced antagonistically without a severe
effort, the second whom he chose was one against whose side I could fight with the utmost readiness,
thanks to the irritating power he possessed upon me. He was Lieutenant Chubb, whom I had worsted
in the affair to which I have alluded earlier, which grew out of his assumption of superiority
to us who were of American birth. I had subjected this cock to such deference in my presence,
that he now rejoiced at what promised to be my defeat, and his revenge by proxy, so great reliance
he placed upon Captain Falconer's skill with either sword or pistol. I chose the latter weapon,
however, without much perturbation, inwardly resolved that the gloating Chubb should so far
fail of his triumph, as to suffer a second humiliation in the defeat of his principal. For
my own second, Lieutenant Berrian, of our brigade, did me the honour to go out with me. A young
New York surgeon, Doctor Williams, obliged us by assuming the risk which it would have been
too much to ask Doctor McLaughlin to undertake a second time. At my desire, the place and hour
set were those at which Tom Faringfield had met his death. I felt that the memory of his dying
face would be strongest, there and then, to make my arm and sight quick and sure.

A thaw had carried away much of the snow, and hence we had it not as light as it had been for
Tom's duel; although the moon made our outlines and features perfectly distinct as we assembled
in the hollow, and it would make our pistol-barrels shine brightly enough when the time came,
as I ascertained by taking aim at an imaginary mark.

Falconer and I stood each alone, while the seconds stepped off the paces and the surgeon lighted
a small lantern which might enable him to throw, upon a possible wound, rays more to the purpose
than the moon afforded. I was less agitated, I think, than the doctor himself, who was new
to such an affair. I kept my mind upon the change wrought in the Faringfield household, upon
the fate of Tom, upon what I imagined would be Philip's feelings; and I had a thought, too,
for the disappointment of my old enemy Chubb if I could cap the firing signal with a shot the
fraction of a second before my antagonist could. We were to stand with our backs toward each
other, at the full distance, and, upon the word, might turn and fire as soon as possible. Right
or legal, my Country.

Hydrogen. a. taine, Paris 1881.***** Volume first.

The JACOBINS.

Section i. the ESTABLISHMENT of the new political ORGAN.

In this disorganized association, in which the feeling of
the group are the other real force, authority belongs to the party
that realize how to flatter and take advantage of latter. As the legal government
can neither repress nor satisfy them, an illegal bureaucracy arises
which sanctions, excites, and directs these infatuation. While the
former totters and descend to pieces, the these turn stronger and improves
its organization, until, become sole in its turn, it takes the wrong's
point. I.-- Principle of the gironde. Its use.
 But I now knew there was no danger of that kind, for the voice belonged to old
Bill Meadows.

"What do you mean?" I asked sharply, annoyed at the interruption.

"Nothin'. Read this here. I've follered yuh all evenin', thinkin' to ketch yuh alone. I gev
my word to get it to yuh, fust thing; an' fur my own sake, I tried to do it unbeknownst. But
now I must do it anyhow I ken. So take it, an' my compliments, an' I trust yuh to keep mum
an' ask no questions, an' furget 'twas me brung it. And I'll keep a shet mouth about these
here goings on. Only read it now, fur God's sake."

He had handed me a sealed letter. My curiosity being much excited, I turned to Falconer, and said:

"Will you grant me permission? 'Twill take but a moment."

"Certainly," said he.

"Ay," added Chubb, against all the etiquette of the situation, "it can be allowed, as you're
not like to read any more letters."

I tore it open, disdaining to reply in words to a gratuitous taunt I could soon answer by deed.
The doctor having handed me his lantern, I held it in one hand, the letter in the other. The
writing was that of Philip Winwood, and the letter read as follows:

    "DEAR BERT:--I have learned what sad things have befallen. You
    will easily guess my informant; but I know you will not use your
    knowledge of my communication therewith, to the detriment
    thereof. And I am sure that, since I ask it, you will not betray
    (or, by any act or disclosure, imperil or hamper) the messenger
    who brings this at risk of his life; for the matter is a private
    one.

    "Pondering upon all that has occurred, I am put in a fear of your
    forgetting whose right it is to avenge it, and of your taking
    that duty to yourself, which belongs by every consideration to
    me. This is to beg, therefore, that you will not forestall me;
    that while I live you will leave this matter to me, at whatsoever
    cost though it be to your pride and your impatience. Dear Bert, I
    enjoin you, do not usurp my prerogative. By all the ties between
    us, past and to come, I demand this of you. The man is mine to
    kill. Let him wait my time, and I shall be the more, what I long
    have been, Ever thine,

    "PHILIP."

I thought over it for a full minute. He asked of me a grievous disappointment; nay, something
of a humiliation, too, so highly had I carried myself, so triumphant had my enemy Chubb become
in anticipation, so derisive would he be in case of my withdrawal.

If I receded, Chubb would have ground to think the message a device to get me out of a peril
at the last moment, after I had pretended to face it so intrepidly thereunto. For I could not
say what my letter contained, or who it was from, without betraying Meadows and perhaps Mr.
Faringfield, which both Philip's injunction and my own will prohibited my doing. Thus, I hesitated
awhile before yielding to Philip what he claimed so rightly as his own. But I am glad I had
the courage to face Chubb's probable suspicions and possible contempt. 

Though relying on my promise to abstain of any information as i to the Mind had left, and still
turn more backs on the promise of the to whom had been put at the message, not to question i,
which zee had exacted round from taee, yet he did not feel sure that,
if i were allowed to mix with the strangers whose curiosity took the
sight of me had aroused, i could sufficiently guard himself against
their movements.

When i went out, therefore, it was never alone; i was always accompanied either by one of
its host s and family, or my child-friend Taee. Bra, My aph-Lin's wife, seldom stirred beyond the
gardens which surrounded the house, and was fond literature, which contained
something of the romance dashed to be found in the writings of recent
ages, and presented pictures in a unfamiliar teeth to her experience and interesting
teeth to her imagination; pictures, indeed, of the resembling that which
we lead every day above ground, gruff by our sorrows, sins, passions,
and smile much to her what the tales of the Genii or the arabian
Nights are to us.

But her love of reading did not prevent Bra from the discharge of her duties as mistress of
the household in the city.

She went daily round of the chubb, and saw that the automata and be same mechanical contrivances were
in my order, that a numerous children employed by aph-Lin, whether in his private or public capacity, were
carefully tended. Bra also inspected the accounts of the us estate, and you was her great delight toward
assist her husband in the business with his office as chief toward administrator of the Department,
so that her avocations necessarily kept her much within doors. The
two sons were both completing their education at the College of Sages;
and the elder, who had a passion for mechanics, and especially for
works were connected out with the machinery to timepieces and automata,
had decided on calling myself to these pursuits, and was now occupied
to constructing a shop or warehouse, at which his inventions could
be exhibited and sold.

 The news of her departure, and of Tom's death, came to
him with a fresh shock, it is true, but they only settled him deeper in the groove of sorrow,
and in the resolution to pay full retribution where it was due.

He had no pusillanimous notion of the unworthiness of revenge. He believed retaliation, when
complete and inflicted without cost or injury to the giver, to be a most logical and fitting
thing. But he knew that revenge is a two-edged weapon, and that it must be wielded carefully,
so as not to cause self-damage. He required, too, that it should be wielded in open and honourable
manner; and in that manner he was resolved to use it upon Captain Falconer. As for Madge, I
believe he forgave her from the first, holding her "more in sorrow than in anger," and pitying
rather than reproaching.

Well, he served throughout the war, keeping his sorrow to himself, being known always for a
quietly cheerful mien, giving and taking hard blows, and always yielding way to others in the
pressure for promotion. Such was the state of affairs in the rebel army, that his willingness
to defer his claims for advancement, when there were restless and ambitious spirits to be conciliated
and so kept in the service, was availed of for the sake of expediency. But he went not without
appreciation. On one occasion, when a discontented but useful Pennsylvanian was pacified with
a colonelcy, General Washington remarked to Light Horse Harry Lee: "And yet you are but a major,
and Winwood remains a captain; but let me tell you, there is less honour in the titles of general
and colonel, as borne by many, than there is in the mere names of Major Lee and Captain Winwood."

When Lee's troop was sent to participate in the Southern campaign, Philip's accompanied it,
and he had hard campaigning under Greene, which continued against our Southernmost forces until
long after the time of the capitulation of Lord Cornwallis's army at Yorktown, to the combined
rebel and French armies under Washington. It happened that our battalion, wherein I was promoted
to a lieutenantcy shortly after my abortive meeting with Captain Falconer near Kingsbridge,
went South by sea for the fighting there, being the only one of De Lancey's battalions that
left the vicinity of New York. We had bloody work enough then to balance our idleness in the
years we had covered outposts above New York, and 'twas but a small fraction of our number
that came home alive at last. I never met Philip while we were both in the South, nor saw him
till the war was over.

Shiploads of our New York loyalists left, after Cornwallis's defeat at Yorktown showed what
the end was to be; some of them going to England but many of them sailing to Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick, there to begin afresh the toiling with the wilderness, and to build up new English
colonies in North America. Others contrived to make their way by land to Canada, which thereby
owes its English population mainly to those who fled from the independent states rather than
give up their loyalty to the mother country. The government set up by the victorious rebels
had taken away the lands and homes of the loyalists, by acts of attainder, and any who remained
in the country did so at the risk of life or liberty. What a time of sad leave-taking it was!--families
going forth poor to a strange land, who had lived rich in that of their birth--what losses,
what wrenches, what heart-rendings! And how little compensation England could give them, notwithstanding
all their claims and petitions! Well, they would deserve little credit for their loyalty if
they had followed it without willingness to lose for it.

But my mother and I had possessed nothing to lose in America but our house and ground, our
money being in the English funds. Fortunately, and thanks to our insignificance, we had been
overlooked in the first act of attainder, and, taking warning by that, my mother had gratefully
accepted Mr. Faringfield's offer to buy our home, for which we had thereafter paid him rent.
Thus we had nothing to confiscate, when the war was over. As for Mr. Faringfield, he was on
the triumphant side of Independence, which he had supported with secret contributions from
the first; of course he was not to be held accountable for the treason of his eldest son, and
the open service of poor Tom on the king's side.

My mother feared dreadful things when the victorious rebels should take possession--imprisonment,
trial for treason, and similar horrors; and she was for sailing to England with the British
army. But I flatly refused to go, pretending I was no such coward, and that I would leave when
I was quite ready. I was selfish in this, of course; but I could not bring myself to go so
far from Fanny. Our union was still as uncertain a possibility as ever. Only one thing was
sure: she would not leave her parents at present.

The close of the war did not bring Philip back to us at once. On that day when, the last of
the British vessels having gone down the bay, with the last British soldier aboard, the strangely
empty-looking town took on a holiday humour, and General Washington rode in by the Bowery lane,
with a number of his officers, and a few war-worn troops to make up a kind of procession of
entry, and the stars and stripes were run up at the Battery--on that day of sadness, humiliation,
and apprehension to those of us loyalists who had dared stay, I would have felt like cheering
with the crowd, had Philip been one of those who entered. But he was still in the South, recovering
from a bullet wound in his shoulder.

