Stewart, who was first apprehended, acknowledged that Margaret Barclay, the other suspected
person, had applied to him to teach her some magic arts, "in order that she might get gear,
kye's milk, love of man, her heart's desire on such persons as had done her wrong, and, finally,
that she might obtain the fruit of sea and land." Stewart declared that he denied to Margaret
that he possessed the said arts himself, or had the power of communicating them. So far was
well; but, true or false, he added a string of circumstances, whether voluntarily declared
or extracted by torture, which tended to fix the cause of the loss of the bark on Margaret
Barclay. He had come, he said, to this woman's house in Irvine, shortly after the ship set
sail from harbour. He went to Margaret's house by night, and found her engaged, with other
two women, in making clay figures; one of the figures was made handsome, with fair hair, supposed
to represent Provost Tran. They then proceeded to mould a figure of a ship in clay, and during
this labour the devil appeared to the company in the shape of a handsome black lap-dog, such
as ladies use to keep.[80] He added that the whole party left the house together, and went
into an empty waste-house nearer the seaport, which house he pointed out to the city magistrates.
From this house they went to the sea-side, followed by the black lap-dog aforesaid, and cast
in the figures of clay representing the ship and the men; after which the sea raged, roared,
and became red like the juice of madder in a dyer's cauldron.

[Footnote 80: This may remind the reader of Cazotte's "Diable Amoureux."]

This confession having been extorted from the unfortunate juggler, the female acquaintances
of Margaret Barclay were next convened, that he might point out her associates in forming the
charm, when he pitched upon a woman called Isobel Insh, or Taylor, who resolutely denied having
ever seen him before. She was imprisoned, however, in the belfry of the church. An addition
to the evidence against the poor old woman Insh was then procured from her own daughter, Margaret
Tailzeour, a child of eight years old, who lived as servant with Margaret Barclay, the person
principally accused. This child, who was keeper of a baby belonging to Margaret Barclay, either
from terror or the innate love of falsehood which we have observed as proper to childhood,
declared that she was present when the fatal models of clay were formed, and that, in plunging
them in the sea, Margaret Barclay her mistress, and her mother Isobel Insh, were assisted by
another woman, and a girl of fourteen years old, who dwelt at the town-head. Legally considered,
the evidence of this child was contradictory and inconsistent with the confession of the juggler,
for it assigned other particulars and dramatis personæ in many respects different. But all
was accounted sufficiently regular, especially since the girl failed not to swear to the presence
of the black dog, to whose appearance she also added the additional terrors of that of a black
man. The dog also, according to her account, emitted flashes from its jaws and nostrils to
illuminate the witches during the performance of the spell. The child maintained this story
even to her mother's face, only alleging that Isobel Insh remained behind in the waste-house,
and was not present when the images were put into the sea. For her own countenance and presence
on the occasion, and to ensure her secrecy, her mistress promised her a pair of new shoes.

John Stewart, being re-examined and confronted with the child, was easily compelled to allow
that the "little smatchet" was there, and to give that marvellous account of his correspondence
with Elfland which we have noticed elsewhere.

The conspiracy thus far, as they conceived, disclosed, the magistrates and ministers wrought
hard with Isobel Insh to prevail upon her to tell the truth; and she at length acknowledged
her presence at the time when the models of the ship and mariners were destroyed, but endeavoured
so to modify her declaration as to deny all personal accession to the guilt. This poor creature
almost admitted the supernatural powers imputed to her, promising Bailie Dunlop (also a mariner),
by whom she was imprisoned, that, if he would dismiss her, he should never make a bad voyage,
but have success in all his dealings by sea and land. She was finally brought to promise that
she would fully confess the whole that she knew of the affair on the morrow.

But finding herself in so hard a strait, the unfortunate woman made use of the darkness to
attempt an escape. With this view she got out by a back window of the belfry, although, says
the report, there were "iron bolts, locks, and fetters on her," and attained the roof of the
church, where, losing her footing, she sustained a severe fall and was greatly bruised. Being
apprehended, Bailie Dunlop again urged her to confess; but the poor woman was determined to
appeal to a more merciful tribunal, and maintained her innocence to the last minute of her
life, denying all that she had formerly admitted, and dying five days after her fall from the
roof of the church. The inhabitants of Irvine attributed her death to poison.

The scene began to thicken, for a commission was granted for the trial of the two remaining
persons accused, namely, Stewart, the juggler, and Margaret Barclay. The day of trial being
arrived, the following singular events took place, which we give as stated in the record:--

"My Lord and Earl of Eglintoune (who dwells within the space of one mile to the said burgh)
having come to the said burgh at the earnest request of the said justices, for giving to them
of his lordship's countenance, concurrence and assistance, in trying of the foresaid devilish
practices, conform to the tenor of the foresaid commission, the said John Stewart, for his
better preserving to the day of the assize, was put in a sure lockfast booth, where no manner
of person might have access to him till the downsitting of the Justice Court, and for avoiding
of putting violent hands on himself, he was very strictly guarded and fettered by the arms,
as use is. And upon that same day of the assize, about half an hour before the downsitting
of the Justice Court, Mr. David Dickson, minister at Irvine, and Mr. George Dunbar, minister
of Air, having gone to him to exhort him to call on his God for mercy for his bygone wicked
and evil life, and that God would of his infinite mercy loose him out of the bonds of the devil,
whom he had served these many years bygone, he acquiesced in their prayer and godly exhortation,
and uttered these words:--"I am so straitly guarded that it lies not in my power to get my
hand to take off my bonnet, nor to get bread to my mouth." And immediately after the departing
of the two ministers from him, the juggler being sent for at the desire of my Lord of Eglintoune,
to be confronted with a woman of the burgh of Air, called Janet Bous, who was apprehended by
the magistrates of the burgh of Air for witchcraft, and sent to the burgh of Irvine purposely
for that affair, he was found by the burgh officers who went about him, strangled and hanged
by the cruik of the door, with a tait of hemp, or a string made of hemp, supposed to have been
his garter, or string of his bonnet, not above the length of two span long, his knees not being
from the ground half a span, and was brought out of the house, his life not being totally expelled.
But notwithstanding of whatsoever means used in the contrary for remeid of his life, he revived
not, but so ended his life miserably, by the help of the devil his master.

"And because there was then only in life the said Margaret Barclay, and that the persons summoned
to pass upon her assize and upon the assize of the juggler who, by the help of the devil his
master, had put violent hands on himself, were all present within the said burgh; therefore,
and for eschewing of the like in the person of the said Margaret, our sovereign lord's justices
in that part particularly above-named, constituted by commission after solemn deliberation
and advice of the said noble lord, whose concurrence and advice was chiefly required and taken
in this matter, concluded with all possible diligence before the downsitting of the Justice
Court to put the said Margaret in torture; in respect the devil, by God's permission, had made
her associates who were the lights of the cause, to be their own burrioes (slayers). They used
the torture underwritten as being most safe and gentle (as the said noble lord assured the
said justices), by putting of her two bare legs in a pair of stocks, and thereafter by onlaying
of certain iron gauds (bars) severally one by one, and then eiking and augmenting the weight
by laying on more gauds, and in easing of her by offtaking of the iron gauds one or more as
occasion offered, which iron gauds were but little short gauds, and broke not the skin of her
legs, &c.

"After using of the which kind of gentle torture, the said Margaret began, according to the
increase of the pain, to cry and crave for God's cause to take off her shins the foresaid irons,
and she should declare truly the whole matter.

Margaret Barclay, who was a young and lively person, had hitherto conducted herself like a
passionate and high-tempered woman innocently accused, and the only appearance of conviction
obtained against her was, that she carried about her rowan-tree and coloured thread, to make,
as she said, her cow give milk, when it began to fail. But the gentle torture--a strange junction
of words--recommended as an anodyne by the good Lord Eglinton--the placing, namely, her legs
in the stocks, and loading her bare shins with bars of iron, overcame her resolution; when,
at her screams and declarations that she was willing to tell all, the weights were removed.
She then told a story of destroying the ship of John Dein, affirming that it was with the purpose
of killing only her brother-in-law and Provost Tran, and saving the rest of the crew. She at
the same time involved in the guilt Isobel Crawford. This poor woman was also apprehended,
and in great terror confessed the imputed crime, retorting the principal blame on Margaret
Barclay herself. The trial was then appointed to proceed, when Alexander Dein, the husband
of Margaret Barclay, appeared in court with a lawyer to act in his wife's behalf. Apparently,
the sight of her husband awakened some hope and desire of life, for when the prisoner was asked
by the lawyer whether she wished to be defended? she answered, "As you please But all I have
confest was in agony of torture; and, before God, all I have spoken is false and untrue." To
which she pathetically added, "Ye have been too long in coming."

The jury, unmoved by these affecting circumstances, proceeded upon the principle that the confession
of the accused could not be considered as made under the influence of torture, since the bars
were not actually upon her limbs at the time it was delivered, although they were placed at
her elbow ready to be again laid on her bare shins, if she was less explicit in her declaration
than her auditors wished. On this nice distinction they in one voice found Margaret Barclay
guilty. It is singular that she should have again returned to her confession after sentence,
and died affirming it; the explanation of which, however, might be either that she had really
in her ignorance and folly tampered with some idle spells, or that an apparent penitence for
her offence, however imaginary, was the only mode in which she could obtain any share of public
sympathy at her death, or a portion of the prayers of the clergy and congregation, which, in
her circumstances, she might be willing to purchase, even by confession of what all believed
respecting her. It is remarkable that she earnestly entreated the magistrates that no harm
should be done to Isobel Crawford, the woman whom she had herself accused. This unfortunate
young creature was strangled at the stake, and her body burnt to ashes, having died with many
expressions of religion and penitence.

It was one fatal consequence of these cruel persecutions, that one pile was usually lighted
at the embers of another. Accordingly in the present case, three victims having already perished
by this accusation, the magistrates, incensed at the nature of the crime, so perilous as it
seemed to men of a maritime life, and at the loss of several friends of their own, one of "whom
had been their principal magistrate, did not forbear to insist against Isobel Crawford, inculpated
by Margaret Barclay's confession.

This tragedy happened in the year 1613, and recorded, as it is, very particularly and at considerable
length, forms the most detailed specimen I have met with of a Scottish trial for witchcraft--illustrating,
in particular, how poor wretches, abandoned, as they conceived, by God and the world, deprived
of all human sympathy, and exposed to personal tortures of an acute description, became disposed
to throw away the lives that were rendered bitter to them by a voluntary confession of guilt,
rather than struggle hopelessly against so many evils. Four persons here lost their lives,
merely because the throwing some clay models into the sea, a fact told differently by the witnesses
who spoke of it, corresponded with the season, for no day was fixed in which a particular vessel
was lost. It is scarce possible that, after reading such a story, a man of sense can listen
for an instant to the evidence founded on confessions thus obtained, which has been almost
the sole reason by which a few individuals, even in modern times, have endeavoured to justify
a belief in the existence of witchcraft.

The result of the judicial examination of a criminal, when extorted by such means, is the most
suspicious of all evidence, and even when voluntarily given, is scarce admissible without the
corroboration of other testimony.

We might here take leave of our Scottish history of witchcraft by barely mentioning that many
hundreds, nay perhaps thousands, lost their lives during two centuries on such charges and
such evidence as proved the death of those persons in the trial of the Irvine witches. One
case, however, is so much distinguished by fame among the numerous instances which occurred
in Scottish history, that we are under the necessity of bestowing a few words upon those celebrated
persons, Major Weir and his sister.

The case of this notorious wizard was remarkable chiefly from his being a man of some condition
(the son of a gentleman, and his mother a lady of family in Clydesdale), which was seldom the
case with those that fell under similar accusations. It was also remarkable in his case that
he had been a Covenanter, and peculiarly attached to that cause. In the years of the Commonwealth
this man was trusted and employed by those who were then at the head of affairs, and was in
1649 commander of the City-Guard of Edinburgh, which procured him his title of Major. In this
capacity he was understood, as was indeed implied in the duties of that officer at the period,
to be very strict in executing severity upon such Royalists as fell under his military charge.
It appears that the Major, with a maiden sister who had kept his house, was subject to fits
of melancholic lunacy, an infirmity easily reconcilable with the formal pretences which he
made to a high show of religious zeal. He was peculiar in his gift of prayer, and, as was the
custom of the period, was often called to exercise his talent by the bedside of sick persons,
until it came to be observed that, by some association, which it is more easy to conceive than
to explain, he could not pray with the same warmth and fluency of expression unless when he
had in his hand a stick of peculiar shape and appearance, which he generally walked with. It
was noticed, in short, that when this stick was taken from him, his wit and talent appeared
to forsake him. This Major Weir was seized by the magistrates on a strange whisper that became
current respecting vile practices, which he seems to have admitted without either shame or
contrition. The disgusting profligacies which he confessed were of such a character that it
may be charitably hoped most of them were the fruits of a depraved imagination, though he appears
to have been in many respects a wicked and criminal hypocrite. When he had completed his confession,
he avowed solemnly that he had not confessed the hundredth part of the crimes which he had
committed. From this time he would answer no interrogatory, nor would he have recourse to prayer,
arguing that, as he had no hope whatever of escaping Satan, there was no need of incensing
him by vain efforts at repentance. His witchcraft seems to have been taken for granted on his
own confession, as his indictment was chiefly founded on the same document, in which he alleged
he had never seen the devil, but any feeling he had of him was in the dark. He received sentence
of death, which he suffered 12th April, 1670, at the Gallow-hill, between Leith and Edinburgh.
He died so stupidly sullen and impenitent as to justify the opinion that he was oppressed with
a kind of melancholy frenzy, the consequence perhaps of remorse, but such as urged him not
to repent, but to despair. It seems probable that he was burnt alive. His sister, with whom
he was supposed to have had an incestuous connexion, was condemned also to death, leaving a
stronger and more explicit testimony of their mutual sins than could be extracted from the
Major. She gave, as usual, some account of her connexion with the queen of the fairies, and
acknowledged the assistance she received from that sovereign in spinning an unusual quantity
of yam. Of her brother she said that one day a friend called upon them at noonday with a fiery
chariot, and invited them to visit a friend at Dalkeith, and that while there her brother received
information of the event of the battle of Worcester. No one saw the style of their equipage
except themselves. On the scaffold this woman, determining, as she said, to die "with the greatest
shame possible," was with difficulty prevented from throwing off her clothes before the people,
and with scarce less trouble was she flung from the ladder by the executioner. Her last words
were in the tone of the sect to which her brother had so long affected to belong: "Many," she
said, "weep and lament for a poor old wretch like me; but alas! few are weeping for a broken
Covenant."

The Scottish prelatists, upon whom the Covenanters used to throw many aspersions respecting
their receiving proof against shot from the devil, and other infernal practices, rejoiced to
have an opportunity, in their turn, to retort on their adversaries the charge of sorcery. Dr.
Hickes, the author of "Thesaurus Septentrionalis," published on the subject of Major Weir,
and the case of Mitchell, who fired at the Archbishop of St. Andrews his book called "Ravaillac
Redivivus," written with the unjust purpose of attaching to the religious sect to which the
wizard and assassin belonged the charge of having fostered and encouraged the crimes they committed
or attempted.

It is certain that no story of witchcraft or necromancy, so many of which occurred near and
in Edinburgh, made such a lasting impression on the public mind as that of Major Weir. The
remains of the house in which he and his sister lived are still shown at the head of the West
Bow, which has a gloomy aspect, well suited for a necromancer. It was at different times a
brazier's shop and a magazine for lint, and in my younger days was employed for the latter
use; but no family would inhabit the haunted walls as a residence; and bold was the urchin
from the High School who dared approach the gloomy ruin at the risk of seeing the Major's enchanted
staff parading through the old apartments, or hearing the hum of the necromantic wheel, which
procured for his sister such a character as a spinner. At the time I am writing this last fortress
of superstitious renown is in the course of being destroyed, in order to the modern improvements
now carrying on in a quarter long thought unimprovable.

As knowledge and learning began to increase, the gentlemen and clergy of Scotland became ashamed
of the credulity of their ancestors, and witch trials, although not discontinued, more seldom
disgrace our records of criminal jurisprudence.

Sir John Clerk, a scholar and an antiquary, the grandfather of the late celebrated John Clerk
of Eldin, had the honour to be amongst the first to decline acting as a commissioner on the
trial of a witch, to which he was appointed so early as 1678,[81] alleging, drily, that he
did not feel himself warlock (that is, conjurer) sufficient to be a judge upon such an inquisition.
Allan Ramsay, his friend, and who must be supposed to speak the sense of his many respectable
patrons, had delivered his opinion on the subject in the "Gentle Shepherd," where Mause's imaginary
witchcraft constitutes the machinery of the poem.

[Footnote 81: See Fountainhall's "Decisions," vol. i. p. 15.]

Yet these dawnings of sense and humanity were obscured by the clouds of the ancient superstition
on more than one distinguished occasion. In 1676, Sir George Maxwell, of Pollock, apparently
a man of melancholic and valetudinary habits, believed himself bewitched to death by six witches,
one man and five women, who were leagued for the purpose of tormenting a clay image in his
likeness. The chief evidence on the subject was a vagabond girl, pretending to be deaf and
dumb. But as her imposture was afterwards discovered and herself punished, it is reasonably
to be concluded that she had herself formed the picture or image of Sir George, and had hid
it where it was afterwards found in consequence of her own information. In the meantime, five
of the accused were executed, and the sixth only escaped on account of extreme youth.

A still more remarkable case occurred at Paisley in 1697, where a young girl, about eleven
years of age, daughter of John Shaw, of Bargarran, was the principal evidence. This unlucky
damsel, beginning her practices out of a quarrel with a maid-servant, continued to imitate
a case of possession so accurately that no less than twenty persons were condemned upon her
evidence, of whom five were executed, besides one John Reed, who hanged himself in prison,
or, as was charitably said, was strangled by the devil in person, lest he should make disclosures
to the detriment of the service. But even those who believed in witchcraft were now beginning
to open their eyes to the dangers in the present mode of prosecution. "I own," says the Rev.
Mr. Bell in his MS. "Treatise on Witchcraft," "there has been much harm done to worthy and
innocent persons in the common way of finding out witches, and in the means made use of for
promoting the discovery of such wretches and bringing them to justice; so that oftentimes old
age, poverty, features, and ill-fame, with such like grounds not worthy to be represented to
a magistrate, have yet moved many to suspect and defame their neighbours, to the unspeakable
prejudice of Christian charity; a late instance whereof we had in the west, in the business
of the sorceries exercised upon the Laird of Bargarran's daughter, anno 1697--a time when persons
of more goodness and esteem than most of their calumniators were defamed for witches, and which
was occasioned mostly by the forwardness and absurd credulity of diverse otherwise worthy ministers
of the gospel, and some topping professors in and about the city of Glasgow."[82]

[Footnote 82: Law's "Memorialls," edited by C.K. Sliarpe, Esq.: Prefatory Notice, p. 93.]

Those who doubted of the sense of the law or reasonableness of the practice in such cases,
began to take courage and state their objections boldly. In the year 1704 a frightful instance
of popular bigotry occurred at Pittenweem. A strolling vagabond, who affected fits, laid an
accusation of witchcraft against two women, who were accordingly seized on, and imprisoned
with the usual severities. One of the unhappy creatures, Janet Cornfoot by name, escaped from
prison, but was unhappily caught, and brought back to Pittenweem, where she fell into the hands
of a ferocious mob, consisting of rude seamen and fishers. The magistrates made no attempts
for her rescue, and the crowd exercised their brutal pleasure on the poor old woman, pelted
her with stones, swung her suspended on a rope betwixt a ship and the shore, and finally ended
her miserable existence by throwing a door over her as she lay exhausted on the beach, and
heaping stones upon it till she was pressed to death. As even the existing laws against witchcraft
were transgressed by this brutal riot, a warm attack was made upon the magistrates and ministers
of the town by those who were shocked at a tragedy of such a horrible cast, There were answers
published, in which the parties assailed were zealously defended. The superior authorities
were expected to take up the affair, but it so happened; during the general distraction of
the country concerning the Union, that the murder went without the investigation which a crime
so horrid demanded. Still, however, it was something gained that the cruelty was exposed to
the public. The voice of general opinion was now appealed to, and in the long run the sentiments
which it advocates are commonly those of good sense and humanity.

The officers in the higher branches of the law dared now assert their official authority and
reserve for their own decision cases of supposed witchcraft which the fear of public clamour
had induced them formerly to leave in the hands of inferior judges, operated upon by all the
prejudices of the country and the populace.

In 1718, the celebrated lawyer, Robert Dundas of Arniston, then King's Advocate, wrote a severe
letter of censure to the Sheriff-depute of Caithness, in the first place, as having neglected
to communicate officially certain precognitions which he had led respecting some recent practices
of witchcraft in his county. The Advocate reminded this local judge that the duty of inferior
magistrates, in such cases, was to advise with the King's Counsel, first, whether they should
be made subject of a trial or not; and if so, before what court, and in what manner, it should
take place. He also called the magistrate's attention to a report, that he, the Sheriff-depute,
intended to judge in the case himself; "a thing of too great difficulty to be tried without
very deliberate advice, and beyond the jurisdiction of an inferior court." The Sheriff-depute
sends, with his apology, the precognition[83] of the affair, which is one of the most nonsensical
in this nonsensical department of the law. A certain carpenter, named William Montgomery, was
so infested with cats, which, as his servant-maid reported, "spoke among themselves," that
he fell in a rage upon a party of these animals which had assembled in his house at irregular
hours, and betwixt his Highland arms of knife, dirk, and broadsword, and his professional weapon
of an axe, he made such a dispersion that they were quiet for the night. In consequence of
his blows, two witches were said to have died. The case of a third, named Nin-Gilbert, was
still more remarkable. Her leg being broken, the injured limb withered, pined, and finally
fell off; on which the hag was enclosed in prison, where she also died; and the question which
remained was, whether any process should be directed against persons whom, in her compelled
confession, she had, as usual, informed against. The Lord Advocate, as may be supposed, quashed
all further procedure.

[Footnote 83: The precognition is the record of the preliminary evidence on which the public
officers charged in Scotland with duties entrusted to a grand jury in England, incur the responsibility
of sending an accused person to trial.]

In 1720, an unlucky boy, the third son of James, Lord Torphichen, took it into his head, under
instructions, it is said, from a knavish governor, to play the possessed and bewitched person,
laying the cause of his distress on certain old witches in Calder, near to which village his
father had his mansion. The women were imprisoned, and one or two of them died; but the Crown
counsel would not proceed to trial. The noble family also began to see through the cheat. The
boy was sent to sea, and though he is said at one time to have been disposed to try his fits
while on board, when the discipline of the navy proved too severe for his cunning, in process
of time he became a good sailor, assisted gallantly in defence of the vessel against the pirates
of Angria, and finally was drowned in a storm.

In the year 1722, a Sheriff-depute of Sutherland, Captain David Ross of Littledean, took it
upon him, in flagrant violation of the then established rules of jurisdiction, to pronounce
the last sentence of death for witchcraft which was ever passed in Scotland. It does not appear
that any punishment was inflicted for this cruel abuse of the law on the person of a creature
so helpless; but the son of the lame daughter, he himself distinguished by the same misfortune,
was living so lately as to receive the charity of the present Marchioness of Stafford, Countess
of Sutherland in her own right, to whom the poor of her extensive country are as well known
as those of the higher order.

Since this deplorable action there has been no judicial interference in Scotland on account
of witchcraft, unless to prevent explosions of popular enmity against people suspected of such
a crime, of which some instances could be produced. An instance or two may be quoted chiefly
as facts known to the author himself.

[Footnote 84: Drawing blood, that is, by two cuts in the form of a cross on the witch's forehead,
confided in all throughout Scotland as the most powerful counter charm.]

In a remote part of the Highlands, an ignorant and malignant woman seems really to have meditated
the destruction of her neighbour's property, by placing in a cow-house, or byre as we call
it, a pot of baked clay containing locks of hair, parings of nails, and other trumpery. This
precious spell was discovered, the design conjectured, and the witch would have been torn to
pieces had not a high-spirited and excellent lady in the neighbourhood gathered some of her
people (though these were not very fond of the service), and by main force taken the unfortunate
creature out of the hands of the populace. The formidable spell is now in my possession.

About two years since, as they were taking down the walls of a building formerly used as a
feeding-house for cattle, in the town of Dalkeith, there was found below the threshold-stone
the withered heart of some animal stuck full of many scores of pins--a counter-charm, according
to tradition, against the operations of witchcraft on the cattle which are kept within. Among
the almost innumerable droves of bullocks which come down every year from the Highlands for
the south, there is scarce one but has a curious knot upon his tail, which is also a precaution
lest an evil eye or an evil spell may do the animal harm.

The last Scottish story with which I will trouble you happened in or shortly after the year
1800, and the whole circumstances are well known to me. The dearth of the years in the end
of the eighteenth and beginning of this century was inconvenient to all, but distressing to
the poor. A solitary old woman, in a wild and lonely district, subsisted chiefly by rearing
chickens, an operation requiring so much care and attention that the gentry, and even the farmers'
wives, often find it better to buy poultry at a certain age than to undertake the trouble of
bringing them up. As the old woman in the present instance fought her way through life better
than her neighbours, envy stigmatized her as having some unlawful mode of increasing the gains
of her little trade, and apparently she did not take much alarm at the accusation. But she
felt, like others, the dearth of the years alluded to, and chiefly because the farmers were
unwilling to sell grain in the very moderate quantities which she was able to purchase, and
without which her little stock of poultry must have been inevitably starved. In distress on
this account, the dame went to a neighbouring farmer, a very good-natured, sensible, honest
man, and requested him as a favour to sell her a peck of oats at any price. "Good neighbour,"
he said, "I am sorry to be obliged to refuse you, but my corn is measured out for Dalkeith
market; my carts are loaded to set out, and to open these sacks again, and for so small a quantity,
would cast my accounts loose, and create much trouble and disadvantage; I dare say you will
get all you want at such a place, or such a place." On receiving this answer, the old woman's
temper gave way. She scolded the wealthy farmer, and wished evil to his property, which was
just setting off for the market. They parted, after some angry language on both sides; and
sure enough, as the carts crossed the ford of the river beneath the farm-house, off came the
wheel from one of them, and five or six sacks of corn were damaged by the water. The good farmer
hardly knew what to think of this; there were the two circumstances deemed of old essential
and sufficient to the crime of witchcraft--Damnum minatum, et malum secutum. Scarce knowing
what to believe, he hastened to consult the sheriff of the county, as a friend rather than
a magistrate, upon a case so extraordinary. The official person showed him that the laws against
witchcraft were abrogated, and had little difficulty to bring him to regard the matter in its
true light of an accident.

It is strange, but true, that the accused herself was not to be reconciled to the sheriffs
doctrine so easily. He reminded her that, if she used her tongue with so much license, she
must expose herself to suspicions, and that should coincidences happen to irritate her neighbours,
she, might suffer harm at a time when there was no one to protect her. He therefore requested
her to be more cautious in her language for her own sake, professing, at the same time, his
belief that her words and intentions were perfectly harmless, and that he had no apprehension
of being hurt by her, let her wish her worst to him. She was rather more angry than pleased
at the well-meaning sheriffs scepticism. "I would be laith to wish ony ill either to you or
yours, sir," she said; "for I kenna how it is, but something aye comes after my words when
I am ill-guided and speak ower fast." In short, she was obstinate in claiming an influence
over the destiny of others by words and wishes, which might have in other times conveyed her
to the stake, for which her expressions, their consequences, and her disposition to insist
upon their efficacy, would certainly of old have made her a fit victim. At present the story
is scarcely worth mentioning, but as it contains material resembling those out of which many
tragic incidents have arisen.

So low, in short, is now the belief in witchcraft, that perhaps it is only received by those
half-crazy individuals who feel a species of consequence derived from accidental coincidences,
which, were they received by the community in general, would go near, as on former occasions,
to cost the lives of those who make their boast of them. At least one hypochondriac patient
is known to the author, who believes himself the victim of a gang of witches, and ascribes
his illness to their charms, so that he wants nothing but an indulgent judge to awake again
the old ideas of sorcery.

LETTER X.

    Other Mystic Arts independent of Witchcraft--Astrology--Its
    Influence during the 16th and 17th Centuries--Base Ignorance of
    those who practised it--Lilly's History of his Life and
    Times--Astrologer's Society--Dr. Lamb--Dr. Forman--Establishment of
    the Royal Society--Partridge--Connexion of Astrologers with
    Elementary Spirits--Dr. Dun--Irish Superstition of the
    Banshie--Similar Superstition in the
    Highlands--Brownie--Ghosts--Belief of Ancient Philosophers on that
    Subject--Inquiry into the respect due to such Tales in Modern
    Times--Evidence of a Ghost against a Murderer--Ghost of Sir George
    Villiers--Story of Earl St. Vincent--Of a British General
    Officer--Of an Apparition in France--Of the Second Lord
    Lyttelton--Of Bill Jones--Of Jarvis Matcham--Trial of two
    Highlanders for the Murder of Sergeant Davis, discovered by a
    Ghost--Disturbances at Woodstock, anno 1649--Imposture called the
    Stockwell Ghost--Similar Case in Scotland--Ghost appearing to an
    Exciseman--Story of a Disturbed House discovered by the firmness of
    the Proprietor--Apparition at Plymouth--A Club of
    Philosophers--Ghost Adventure of a Farmer--Trick upon a Veteran
    Soldier--Ghost Stories recommended by the Skill of the Authors who
    compose them--Mrs. Veal's Ghost--Dunton's Apparition
    Evidence--Effect of Appropriate Scenery to Encourage a Tendency to
    Superstition--Differs at distant Periods of Life--Night at Glammis
    Castle about 1791--Visit to Dunvegan in 1814.

While the vulgar endeavoured to obtain a glance into the darkness of futurity by consulting
the witch or fortune-teller, the great were supposed to have a royal path of their own, commanding
a view from a loftier quarter of the same terra incognita. This was represented as accessible
by several routes. Physiognomy, chiromancy, and other fantastic arts of prediction afforded
each its mystical assistance and guidance. But the road most flattering to human vanity, while
it was at the same time most seductive to human credulity, was that of astrology, the queen
of mystic sciences, who flattered those who confided in her that the planets and stars in their
spheres figure forth and influence the fate of the creatures of mortality, and that a sage
acquainted with her lore could predict, with some approach to certainty, the events of any
man's career, his chance of success in life or in marriage, his advance in favour of the great,
or answer any other horary questions, as they were termed, which he might be anxious to propound,
provided always he could supply the exact moment of his birth. This, in the sixteenth and greater
part of the seventeenth centuries, was all that was necessary to enable the astrologer to erect
a scheme of the position of the heavenly bodies, which should disclose the life of the interrogator,
or Native, as he was called, with all its changes, past, present, and to come.

