"You promised mother," said Joan, "that she should have Sentimental Tommy this week. You need sacudij the yoke
of theocracy. A town dominated by priests, a people is always late ... and dirty. (Laughter and
applause, of which we hear as it chicheo.)

The aide spoke better, and acquired a certain grace in trying to denigrate
the clergy.

- I ask the word - a high-pitched voice shouted from
a balcony.

- Who is it?

Who is it? - They asked each other spectators and dignitaries stage.

- The son of Perinolo .-- Who? - The son of Perinolo .-- The son of
Perinolo. "Surely the last reader hasn't been three months over it. I thought subscribers
were only allowed to keep a book a week."

Miss Milton's crimson colouring turned to a deep purple.

"The book is out," she said. "Both books are out. They are in great demand. I have no more to say."

The Library door opened, and a young man came in. Joan was still too young to wish for scenes
in public. She must give up the battle for to-day. When, however, she saw who it was she blushed.
It was young Lord St. Leath --Johnny St. Leath, as he was known to his familiars, who were
many and of all sorts and conditions. Joan hated herself for blushing, especially before the
odious Miss Milton, but there was a reason. One day in last October after morning service Joan
and her mother had waited in the Cloisters to avoid a shower of rain. St. Leath had also waited
and very pleasantly had talked to them both. There was nothing very alarming in this, but as
the rain cleared and Mrs. Brandon had moved forward across the Green, he had suddenly, with
a confusion that had seemed to her charming, asked Joan whether one day they mightn't meet
again. He had given her one look straight in the eyes, tried to say something more, failed,
and turned away down the Cloisters.

Joan had never before been asked by any young man to meet him again. She had told herself that
this was nothing but the merest, most obvious politeness; nevertheless the look that he had
given her remained.

Now, as she saw him advancing towards her, there was the thought, was it not on that very morning
that her new courage and self-confidence had come to her? The thought was so absurd that she
flung it at Miss Milton. But the blush remained. Back to Lift the pale semicircle of the moon poked his upper horn
on the sleeping waters. A streak of light ran strongly on them causing them to swell. The star collected
her ray divine gallantly, in the serene light of the goddess who started to rise slowly and
majestically, dwarfing the diamonds of all sizes around wore hers. Stood in the middle of a
bright and splendid atmosphere, drawing on her its graceful contours and scattering by the
atmosphere soothing influence. And the ocean that docile it comes and goes steadily since the
beginning of the world, pure flame was kindled, shook his broad bosom inflamed, and threw rocks
at the waters of Santa Maria and huge layers of mercury that rose above others removed and merged
with them.

Sublime silence reigned, a gathering of inexpressible softness in that scene as old and so new
at the same time.

Nature seemed to stay the course to hear the eternal harmony of heaven.

The waves gently caressing without daring to interrupt the August games serenity noisy night.

Gonzalo,
despite deep concern that the conversation with his uncle left him, he felt the fascination of
that sea, that sky, that moon, and his agitation was becoming in blue. The harsh words of the old
sailor had awakened conscience lashes. Reborn with more fury than before the fight between
the angel and the devil. Once it was about to expire. The boy imagined occur the next day at
home Belinchón talk Dona Paula and rogarla not to say anything to Cecilia and hasten the marriage.
But at the moment was offered to mind the image of Venturita, and thought it would be impossible
to live next it, without suffering horrible torments. Then, as almost always happens in these
struggles, came the period of transactions .-- "Nothing, it's best - he said - is to flee, leaving
again France or England, not marry one or another. Thus there is no treason. The Cecilia wound
caused will heal soon. Find a husband worth more to me, and when you return after a few years,
probably I will find happy and surrounded by children ... "

But ... Ventura flee! Run away from that image radiantly happy! Do not listen to more his voice
that delights the soul caused incomprehensible! Not feeling the sweet touch of his hand Solid fresh
as a rosebud!

Get away from her eyes bright and smiling and magnetic! ... Oh, no!

He felt his forehead bathed in sweat. A deadly grief he fell into thinking about this, as if
and the decision was taken, and to leave she had to say: - "We'll
see, we'll see ... Now it is very difficult, almost impossible, to
turn ... The mother already knows ... Don Rosendo also ... and Cecilia
at this time just in case ... "

The angel loosened her arms, weary, fell off his hands and finally
surrendered.

If not with the body, Gonzalo could see through the eyes of his white spirit image flashing through
serene and sink into the sparkling waters.

And wept seized with strange sadness. This kind of struggle is never made in the human soul
without tearing it somewhere. To achieve this needed step on the heart of a Young innocent, violating
an oath, as a traitor. The words of his uncle still vibrating his ears: - "The man who broke
his word can not help you God." And indeed, he deemed unworthy of aid. A feeling cruel, indefinite,
unfortunately, death, sadness, pierced his chest, and observed strong
and rapid vision ugliness of life without virtue and tranquility,
as the knight of the legend, embracing a beautiful young lady, to
swing the light wind strength saw her transformed into old, naked
and stinking.

The water gently beating the wall at his feet. Staring at them was distracted their undulating
movement. Algae, subject to the bottom, waving to the lapping waves resembling the hair of the dead.
How well we sleep down there! What peace in that fund transparent! What magical light up! Gonzalo
heard for the first time in his life, the eloquent voice Nature invites you to sit in the
maternal womb, the sweet voice of irresistible attraction The unfortunate
hear in my sleep, and that drives them many times to bring the cold
barrel of a gun to his temple.

It was a moment no more. His happy temperament blood rebelled against this appeal. The life,
which boiled exuberant nature of an athlete, he indignantly rejected shooting thoughts of
death. An insignificant event, the appearance of a green light in confines of the horizon, was
enough to divert his mind from those sad thoughts .-- "A ship that wants to come - he said .--
What time is it?

(He took out his watch.) Half past ten already! If were a little earlier, I would. Let's see
if it's that people in the cafe and want to play a few sheets.

"

He took a great cigar of the pouch, lit it, and sucking sensuously, the was closer, little by
little, the cafe of the Navy.

Almost at the same time spent at home in Belinchón a sad scene. All that day, had been Dona Paula
in bed, complaining of an intense tightness in the left side, which made it difficult much to breathe.
He did not like to call the doctor, for that invincible antipathy, and even terror that has
the populace to science. Instead he used on tips how absurd remedies mujerucas advised him
many who came daily to your home to get the rooms with vicious and hyperbolic flattery. So that
did not stop the friction of sheep tallow, gardener cups, the substance of chicken, etc., etc.
Finally, in spite of this formidable therapy, the good lady has improved enough to obscure: even
wanted to get up, but Cecilia stopped him and Pablito. Both of them had accompanied her to spend
time sitting bedside.

Cecilia In particular moment just broke more than necessary to prepare
the ointments and teas.

Pablito made frequent trips to the runners, where, by strange coincidence,
almost always encountered Nieves and made to pay tolls.

Sometimes suppressed their laughter came to the room of the sick, and she smiled benevolence
telling Cecilia:

- How foolish!

No guess, of course, that his beloved son could do nothing but play
hide and seek.

As I was running free and unfettered his chest, head cargábasele care tell your daughter that
as sad news that it had been in bed. He kept guide long and melancholy eyes, sighing at the same
time with pain signals. Several I had said:

- Cecilia, hey.

And many others, sorry, had ordered any trifle.

Had closed the night. Venturita candle lit the lamp, and then went
away.

Paul, seeing her mother better, and having no occasion to exercise
their rights in the halls manor the house was a walk for coffee.

They were mother and daughter in the bedroom, the first in bed, quiet and, the second sitting near
her.

After long time of silence, during which the lady gave Belinchón
thousand rounds in his head to find an entry that naturally leads
to the confidence that was required to do.

- Have sewn today much
the girls? - Asked.

- Do not know ... I've barely been there - said
Cecilia.

- I suppose that if we continue to work well, we will end
too soon.

- Could be.

Dona Paula did not know how to proceed, and was silent.

After a few minutes took the thread again.

- Throughout the month of August will be completed by the team ...
And I think it take even some months to marry.

- Do some months?

...

- I think ... I think Gonzalo not want the ceremony to be so soon
- the lady said trembling voice.

- You have said it?

- Yes, I said
it ... I say, no, tell me, no ... but I guess for certain things ...
by some indirect words ....

Dona Paula was stunned and suffocated.

Fortunately, Cecilia could not see color well on their cheeks.

-
Would like to know what words were those - the young woman said firmly.

-
Do not ask me, the daughter of my soul - said the lady, bursting into
sobs.

Cecilia was heavily pale, and let his mother kiss the hand with effusion
had hers.

Response from the shock, he asked:

- What happened, Mom? ... Speech.

- A horrible thing, my soul ... A disgrace!

... I would die at this time, not see the meanness, evil is done
with my daughter.

- Calm down, Mom.

You're sick, and can really hurt you this emotion.

- Who cares!

I tell you I wish I was dead ... Life would be glad that you did
not want Gonzalo ... Do you love him, my heart, you want a lot?

Cecilia did not reply.

- Tell me, by God, who does not want!

Cecilia remained silent. After a few moments said, trying in vain to give a secure voice inflection:

-
Gonzalo resignation to marry me, right?

At the same time Doña Paula was silent and hid her tearful face in
his hands.

It took a few moments.

- Do you have a complaint about me?

- What must have!

Who will be complaining to you, my lamb?

- So, if you already did not like or does not want me, what can we do? ... I'd better time
disappointment.

- Oh! - Dona Paula shouted breaking into sobs again. Under the apparent resignation of daughter
sensed a deep pain, which made efforts to hide.

- What can we do, Mom! Is it not better to tell me now that after marriage? Did not understand
the life of torment that would attached to a woman who would not? ... The penalty can it cause
at this point, however great, can not be compared to that which would knowing that my husband
did not love me. The penalty would then be increased to death whereas now they may disappear
or at least calm down ... Maybe after he leaves, not seeing much time you'll gradually forgetting
...

- It's ... not going away - he uttered a confused lady.

- If you are going, patience ... Try not to leave home, so you do not see him.

- Well ... Daughter of my soul, your misery is even greater! ... Gonzalo is in love your sister.

Cecilia
grew even paler, to give in pale, and was silent.

Her mother came to kiss the hand with effusion.

Then brought to him and covered him with kisses face.

- Forgive me is torturing you this way ... As much as you suffer, I suffer even more ... Yesterday
afternoon, your sister came to tell me .. Imagine the shock and pain I will have received ... My
first impulse was to drown, it is impossible that she does not have the Most of the blame ...
I gave evidence that they were already long in relationships, taught me letters ... Then, the
lack of Gonzalo these days, did everything believable. As I conviction of treason, I told him
that was irrelevant, that is, that I could not agree hiciese anyone mockery of my daughter, and would
no more Gonzalo foot in this house throughout his life how this infamous villain and he was
like her ... Everything came to me mouth. But this morning ... This morning I heard a horrible
thing yet ... I knew your sister has arrived where I can not want to say. There is no choice
but to marry them, and the soon ... You know why I have given this
oppression that nearly killed me, and more worth it were so!

... The same thing your father that I are caught, have their arms tied. If not were the case, before
agreeing to this marriage, I would first pieces ... The infamy you have used this man makes me
hateful and for life ... Yes, yes, for all life! - with emphasis added angrily.

Cecilia did not reply. Hands folded in her lap, and head down to the chest, looked down with
astonished eyes. Neither the broken speech and vehement of his mother, or the sobs that followed,
managed to make her change in attitude. It remained for a long time, still and white as a statue.

In
those big eyes ecstatic, finally a tear trembled, rose, hesitated ... desprendióse rolling, leaving
groove on her cheeks wet withered and fell like a drop of fire on his hand, which was left burning
without moving. Soon after, had evaporated. An angel picked and took it to God to account for
it should ask who is responsible.

A new and clear light dawned on Sarrió, after so much darkness. By the mercy and grace singularity
of God, found himself provided the beautiful villa, when least expected, an organ in the press,
was even weekly or 'weekly', he said its illustrious founder. Graves obstacles, dangerous pitfalls
opposed the construction of the undertaking. Everyone knew defeat and avoid the perseverance
and genius of that extraordinary man take charge. The first difficulty overcome was that of
money. Fifty shares were created a thousand real each, for the support of the newspaper, of which
Don Rosendo's Friends only took nine, Don Rudesindo five, two and Don Pedro Feliciano Miranda, despite
its large income, two all. As for the others, Alvaro Peña, Don Rufo, Navarro, etc., The apologized
to his lack of resources, and they were right. Also, put in the business intelligence, which
is the main thing. He remained with the forty-one other, Don Rosendo. Singular greatness of mind
which caused great impression at all.

Lancia despatched emissaries seeking press. Not having paid off their efforts, the founder
himself moved to the city. After a few days had the fortune to discover ruined a printer for some
years, broken and rusted screw press which had refused buy one and lay covered with dust in a
dark basement. When Don Rosendo was to examine with her owner, could not but feel friendly emotion.
A flood of serious and deep reflections off the continual act of mind to contemplate: - "I have
here - said - the most powerful tools of human progress in shameful
laziness, not because own, but for the abandoned men.

Much enlightenment, how could spiritual bread spread in the years they have cornered and quiet!
As the barbarism and ignorance prevail in most of our districts, they, who alone have the force to
banish, remained here still, lacking a hand and start pushing them of his heart the secrets of
science and politics. "

Very nearly the kiss and embrace her tenderly. The printer, being in so benevolent mood about
them, not to be outdone, and declared love to the bones of their instruments. Consent for
any money in getting rid of those old colleagues who had helped him to earn their bread (and wine
too, as was said by the people). Their Excellencies sang with such fire and enthusiasm, like
their parents and his brothers and they should be the breath of life that encouraged him and
made an important addition printed statement that, if not soon, better
and cleaner than all known presses until.

According to these ends, Don Rosendo strove, however, convince that would alienate even for
not losing their very remarkable qualities. But showed the more eloquent dealer, appeared more
tender and fond of the printer. Finally, it was agreed that it is not clear from these garments,
so dear to his heart, because it had no courage to carry it out, and moved with them to Sarrió,
which would establish definitely. Would entail some typesetters who could teach other young
people the village, and all the necessary items to mount the print. Folgueras, that was his name
The printer broke, remained as owner and ruler of her. Charged by Chuck's new somewhat regular,
twice as large, according to our calculations, what they charge in the best Madrid printers.
Not much if you consider the merit of the etching press and the pure
professed to love them.

The title was one of the best points was the dashing Don wit and invention Rosendo. Sarrió Intitulólo
Lighthouse, highly expressive and sonorous name, and scope unique nothing else because its founder
intended to enlighten the people and give splendor. Madrid secretly commissioned an engraving
for the head of the newspaper. Arriving a few days then caused spasms of joy, both among shareholders
and between all those who had fortunate to see him. It represented a sea port, Sarrió apparently
in the late night, judging by the black ink of the sky and sea. On the left rose a high mountain
overlooking it entirely ideal, and she saw a gentleman who kept distant resemblance to Don Rosendo,
directing the fires of a huge flashlight on the villa. Near him percibíanse few other heads of
characters. Shareholders in good faith believed were his effigies, and were deeply grateful
to the artist.

Was designated as a local printing store gift Rudesindo, paying rent, course. The wording was
used in the same place a magazine, for which there to perform some work. Montosa the end of
printing, but not many and unforeseen expenses. Folgueras, who claimed to be equipped with everything
you need, I had nothing, and it became necessary to instruct Madrid foundries and missing pieces
to the press, build Galerina, buy tables, etc., etc. At last everything
was settled.

Don Rosendo worked as a black man, seized up in the smallest details. His organizational talent
is revealed in this time better than ever. Was appointed editor in chief Sinforoso Suarez, with
a monthly salary of twenty-hard, and administrator to the first child of Don Rufo.

Missing paper. He had telegraphed to Madrid asking for a remittance, and did not quite get.
Belinchón's impatience was great. Telegrams came and went through the wiring. Some, sometimes
saying he was arrested in Lancia Lancia telegram to claim it. Others which had not happened in Valladolid:
Valladolid telegram. Others who had not left Madrid: telegram to Madrid. Don Rosendo vowed this
time not more responsible role to Madrid and yes it would bring in Belgium. But what was reason
for dislike trocóse in intense pleasure, as always happens, when after they took a few bales
had arrived Lancia, and that she hoped the car had to bring them to their destination. As the
newspaper was already made for days, They proceeded immediately to the roll, which was to be substantial.
Don Rosendo intended to spread it widely throughout the province, sent to all of Spain and to
make Him known in foreign nations. Both that and their partners attended forward to the act
of operating. Never tired of admiring its complicated shoot, the unique precision of its movements,
and the astonishing speed with which the newspaper printed, they do not come down from two hundred
copies left entirely completed at a time. His illustrious founder, unable to suppress the fire
that devoured newspaper, emptied to the presence of all of his coat, and began to find energy
to handle the flywheel, until the sweat flowed in abundance from
his high forehead.

Example given of enthusiasm and love for the civilization that we take pleasure in referring
to education of new generations.

Finally came Sarrió Lighthouse large size, because its founder did not want to be spared paper,
and fairly well printed. The only blur that appeared was the engraving of the head, to the point
that most of the audience was convinced that the individual who had
Flashlight in hand, he wanted to represent a black man instead of
a respectable person already mentioned.

Contained a feature article printed in large type the twelve, called Our purposes. Although
he was signed by The Editors, was due solely to the pen Don Rosendo. Faro purposes "to appear
on the stage of the press", were mainly defend, "high shield and pierced his visor," the moral
and material interests Sarrio combat ignorance "in all its forms"
and the fiery battles of the press, fight tirelessly for the triumph
of the reforms that the progress of time required.

The Lighthouse editorial believed that "sounded when break with the
doctrines the past.

" Sarrió eagerly wanted to be emancipated from the routine and petty ideas, "break narrow molds
that lay trapped "and" enter fully into the domain of its own conscience and their rights. "
"We hope - read the article - that the occurrence of our paper coincides with a period of moral
and material activity, and can attend one of these social transformations that are time in the
annals of nations. If our voice managed to wake the village of Sarrió
from their long slumber and stagnation, and we could succeed look
soon see the dawn of an era of self-study work and the reform movement
who aspire to start, that is the best prize that will our efforts
and sacrifices. "

The language could not be more noble and patriotic.
And, as always, ran to modesty couples with authority and eloquence.

"Do
not entertain the claim - he said - to be the leaders in this great
battle of thought which will soon commence within the precincts of
Sarrió. Only hope to fight as dark soldiers, and that we are given
a place in the forefront. They will fight as good, and if at last
fall due, we will involved in the sacred banner of progress. "

This
military allegory, caused great impression among the residents, and
contributed not a little The enthusiastic reception that the newspaper
obtained. Finally, the article was so elegant the words, so full of
heavy sentences, the style so arranged, that the public did not who
is worthy, but his glorious director.

And it was true.

Inserted
after a lengthy newspaper article Sinforoso on women. There were two
columns closed poetic prose, adorned with all the flowers of rhetoric,
which was sung the sweet influence of this half of humankind. Claimed
in warm terms, that civilization exists only in marriage. Conjugal
love is the only base. Everything is holy, everything is beautiful,
everything is happy in the intimate bond that unites young couple. It was not for him, Brandon, to suggest that the authorities in Oxford
were perhaps a little behind the times, a little out of the world. Nevertheless it was probably
true that long residence in Oxford had hindered the aforesaid authorities from realising the
trend of the day, from appreciating the new spirit of independence that was growing up in our
younger generation. It seemed obvious to him, Archdeacon Brandon, that you could no longer
treat men of Falk's age and character as mere boys and, although he was quite sure that the
authorities at Oxford had done their best, he nevertheless hoped that this unfortunate episode
would enable them to see that we were not now living in the Middle Ages, but rather in the
last years of the nineteenth century. It may seem to some a little ironical that the Archdeacon,
who was the most conservative soul alive, should write thus to one of the most conservative
of our institutions, but--"Before Oxford the Brandons were...."

What the tutor remarked when he read this letter is not recorded. Brandon said nothing to Falk
about all this. Indeed, during the first weeks after Falk's return he preserved a stern and
dignified silence. After all, the boy must learn that authority was authority, and he prided
himself that he knew, better than any number of Oxford Dons, how to train and educate the young.
Nevertheless light broke through. Some of Falk's jokes were so good that his father, who had
a real sense of fun if only a slight sense of humour, was bound to laugh. Very soon father
and son resumed their old relations of sudden tempers and mutual admiration, and a strange,
rather pathetic, quite uneloquent love that was none the less real because it was, on either
side, completely selfish.

But there was a fourth reason why Falk's return caused so slight a storm. That reason was that
the Archdeacon was now girding up his loins before he entered upon one of his famous campaigns.
There had been many campaigns in the past. Campaigns were indeed as truly the breath of the
Archdeacon's nostrils as they had been once of the great Napoleon's--and in every one of them
had the Archdeacon been victorious.

This one was to be the greatest of them all, and was to set the sign and seal upon the whole
of his career.

It happened that, three miles out of Polchester, there was a little village known as Pybus
St. Anthony. A very beautiful village it was, with orchards and a stream and old-world cottages
and a fine Norman church. But not for its orchards nor its stream nor its church was it famous.
It was famous because for many years its listing had been regarded as one of the most important
in the whole diocese of Polchester. It was the tradition that the man who went to Pybus St.
Anthony had the world in front of him. When likely men for preferment were looked for it was
to Pybus St. Anthony that men looked. Heaven alone knows how many Canons and Archdeacons had
made their first bow there to the Glebeshire world! Three Deans and a Bishop had, at different
times, made it their first stepping-stone to fame. Canon Morrison (Honorary Canon of the Cathedral)
was its present incumbent. Less intellectual than some of the earlier incumbents, he was nevertheless
a fine fellow. He had been there only three years when symptoms of cancer of the throat had
appeared. He had been operated on in London, and at first it had seemed that he would recover.
Then the dreaded signs had reappeared; he had wished, poor man, to surrender the living, but
because there was yet hope the Chapter, in whose gift the living was, had insisted on his remaining.

A week ago, however, he had collapsed. It was feared now that at any moment he might die. The
Archdeacon was very sorry for Morrison. He liked him, and was deeply touched by his tragedy;
nevertheless one must face facts; it was probable that at any moment now the Chapter would
be forced to make a new appointment.

He had been aware--he did not disguise it from himself in the least--for some time now of the
way that the appointment must go. There was a young man, the Rev. Rex Forsyth by name, who,
in his judgment, could be the only possible man. Young Forsyth was, at the present moment,
chaplain to the Bishop of St. Minworth. St. Minworth was only a Suffragan Bishopric, and it
could not honestly be said that there was a great deal for Mr. Forsyth to do there. But it
was not because the Archdeacon thought that the young man ought to have more to do that he
wished to move him to Pybus St. Anthony. Far from it! The Archdeacon, in the deep secrecy of
his own heart, could not honestly admit that young Forsyth was a very hard worker --he liked
hunting and whist and a good bottle of wine...he was that kind of man.

Where, then, were his qualifications as Canon Morrison's successor? Well, quite honestly--and
the Archdeacon was one of the honestest men alive--his qualifications belonged more especially
to his ancestors rather than to himself. In the Archdeacon's opinion there had been too many
clever men of Pybus. 

The president asked with terrible severity:

- Are we in a cultured or between Hottentots?

This question thus formulated, produces deep impression on the public.

Suarez, a little pale and agitated voice said at last:

- If the Assembly wishes, I am willing to sit down.

(No, no! - Continue! Loud and sustained applause the speaker.)

The outrage against the switch rude grown to the point with these humble words, threatening cries
are heard and many shake their fists in front of the site which had left voice. Alvaro Peña,
the Greek orator, more angry than anyone end up in the pan and slaps and kicks to the unfortunate
Mechacan throws the applause from the theater public.

Calmer and the waves, he continues. Makes an excursion into the field of history for Sarrio show
that, since the time of Roman domination, when Spain was Further
divided into Citerior and then in Tarragona, Andalusia and Lusitania,
to our days, had shown in all cases a very powerful genius of the
people above Nieva.

Such statements were greeted with cheers of approval samples. Introdúcese then suddenly in
the domains of law and knowledge boasts rare Sarrió especially in science and Papiniano Tribonian.
At some point, modesty that great credit, said:

- What I have said, gentlemen, has no scientific value.

Any child knows that has greeted the Pandects ...

Don Jeronimo de la Fuente, a master of first letters of the town, which was studied by modern methods
and knew something of Froebel and Pestalozzi, enlightened man, who had written a handbook of
irregular verbs and had a telescope on the balcony of his house always pointing to the sky,
rises from his chair, and smiling with great shame says:

- The palm
leaves many years ago have been removed from schools.

- I have not
said clapping, I said Pan-dec-TAS - replica Suárez smiling much more
pity.

Don Jerónimo reddened by the faux pas just given.

He continues and ends at the end, wishing, as eloquently assistant marina, which Sarrio awaken
to the life of progress, which comes out of the lethargy in which it lies, and that somehow
manifested in its enclosure the struggle of ideas always fertile, and look at its horizon bright
sun of civilization.

"... If true, as I have understood that through the initiative and generous patriotic a respectable
character of this town, is preparing it the advent of the fourth
of modern states.

If it is true that soon will be equipped Sarrió a newspaper reflect their legitimate aspirations,
that is the arena where they exercise their minds, the protection of their dearest interests,
the advanced guard of peace and rest, the organ, in order, where to contact the spirit world,
congratulate ourselves, gentlemen, Heartily congratulate ourselves! and also congratulate the
distinguished patrician by whose efforts will reach us a ray of that shining star of the nineteenth
century called the press. "

(Bravo, bravo! All eyes, eager to become president. The face of Don Rosendo shine full of majesty
and sweetness.)

After Perinolo son, sought and obtained the word Don Jeronimo de la Fuente. The illustrated Professor
of first letters, ardently desired up to the public eye after the fall of Pandects. Then he began
saying that was full of worthy ideas He (note that said not eloquent or illustrated, but worthy, worth
nothing more) that had preceded the use of the word he intended by his profession to light the
torch of science in children's minds, could not be decided in favor modern developments, especially
the press. In corroboration of these words, believes in the case say that, as soon as the creation
of a newspaper was Sarrió a fact, would have the pleasure of exposing their neighbors to solve a
problem which today had believed insoluble, that of 'trisection of angle ", which was dedicated
many efforts and vigils, and other crowned a fortunately for the best success. Spoke then great
opportunity for some areas, physical geography and astronomy, explaining
some problems of celestial mechanics, in particular the law of universal
attraction, discovered Newton, through which the planets orbit the
sun in elliptical orbits.

For this purpose brilliantly exposed what was an ellipse. Finally, speaking of our satellite
the moon, noted that the time of its revolution around the earth was significantly decreased,
indicating that its orbit is narrowed. This, according to the speaker, would result in later
or earlier than the moon fall on earth and both would shatter. Don Jerome sat down, leaving the audience
very agitated, under the weight of this terrifying prophecy.

He advanced to the footlights in the next breath, Mr. Rufo, the physician of the town, thin man with
Bucket beard and gold spectacles. A few words explicitly stated that, in his opinion, thought
is not just a physiological function of the brain and the soul an attribute of matter. But, what part
of the brain lies the focus of intellectual activity? - Wonders he .-- In his view, this activity
is centered in the "gray, brown or yellow" and certainly not in the "white matter" which is
nothing more than the driver of such activity. He spoke after the dura mater, the hemispheres of
the frontal, parietal and occipital of falx and tentorium.

At this point he had a happy occurrence, beautifully comparing the convolutions of gray matter
to a lot of guts thrown at random. All the powers which we call the soul, are only functions of
this substance gray, this pile of intestines. The brain secretes thought as the liver secretes
urine, bile and kidneys. He concludes that, as humanity does not penetrate of these truths, you can
not leave the state of barbarism in which it lies.

As never wanted to be less than the doctor, asked to speak veterinary
professor Navarro.

After spending a few words to welcome the holding of that meeting (none of the speakers failed
to mention the buzzword) presented some very reasonable ideas about the pig gangrenous angina and
prophylaxis. He stumbled, mumbled, sweating to cast their thinking. But the deficiency of
expression, dutifully made up for novelty and interest that the subject offered. At the time of
angina were dying in Sarrió, enough of those cute animals.

The public, though he listened with respect and affection this news
about the disease who complained at the time the swine, and was eager
to hear statements the president.

After the mention of the son of Perinolo the issue of the paper, all eager to know what was
true. While lecturing Navarro, came a voice from the pot crying

- To speak Don Rosendo.

And while the public punished with a strong chicheo this rude interruption was unanimous the view that
Navarro as he "had no conditions."

Finally Sarrió remarkable man, the bearer of all the progress, the illustrious Don Rosendo
Belinchón patrician, her breast rose majestically above the table.

(Hush, hush, hush! - Keeping quiet, gentlemen !--¡¡ !!--¡ Attention Please, a little attention!)

These
were the cries that came from the crowd, but no one had dared to
lift a finger even.

Such was the eagerness to hear the word president.

Like all really high-spirited men and biting wit, wrote Don Rosendo better than talking. However,
his word was a hallmark of relaxed grandeur in vain would look at the speakers who preceded him.

- Gentlemen (pause) I thank all people (pause) who have come this afternoon (Pause) to the meeting
which I had the honor of calling (pause much longer during which sounds are noisy). I have a
real appreciation (pause) to see collected on this site most enlightened people of the village
(pause) and all those who for one or another concept worth and mean something.

(Bravo, very good, very good.)

After this exordium as flattering welcome, said that what he urged in the time was "raising the intellectual
level of Sarrió." Then he added that his purpose convening this meeting was not one to raise
this level. (Prolonged applause.) To carry out such an enterprise had no strength and sufficient
merit. (Yeah, yeah. Applause.) But had he believed to have at least, with the help of many
powerful men of heart and patriotism, intelligence and progress Sarrió contained. (Samples of
approval.) Believed the most effective means to raise the height
Sarrió rightful, and make worthily compete with other towns, and even
less important maritime cities, was creation of a body that would
support its political, moral and material ...

- And, gentlemen (pause),
but have not yet been edging all the difficulties (pause), I have
pleased to convey to this August body ... (Attention, gossip, gossip.

Silence!) That perhaps in the month of August ... (Bravo, bravo! Noisy, frenetic applause that
interrupted the speaker for some time.) that perhaps in the month of August (bravo, bravo! silence!)
Sarrió the village will have a biweekly newspaper. (Thunderous applause. Navarro throws his
top hat to the scene. Some other viewers follow suit. Alvaro Peña and Don Feliciano Gomez, picking
up and return them to their owners. The appearance of Don Rosendo shines with majestic expression,
his lips, to contract with a happy smile, let see the two symmetrical rows of teeth, eloquent
testimony to the progress odontálgicos.)

- Despite these demonstrations
of affection that I thank to the bottom of the soul (pause) the pride
does not blind me.

The scarcity of my strength (No, no), my lack of enlightenment (No, no applause) will cause the
body blows certainly does not correspond to the expectations of the public. (Voices from various
sites: If you shall! We are confident. Applause.) But if you (pause) lack of intelligence
may be supplemented by faith and enthusiasm, will certainly now. My humble pen and my little
fortune belongs to people of Sarrió. (Samples vehement approval.)

The new paper, as he had "a great mission to accomplish."

This mission was to raise the reforms, the progress that the town claimed. The need for these
reforms and this progress was "the conscience of the world." The covered market was made it essential.
The road to Rodillero was the constant desire of both peoples. As for the public Macelo Rosendo wondered
in amazement how the town could agree that there was an outbreak of filth like this, it was "a true
standard of shame. "

Gabino Maza had been listening with marked contempt and disgust from his chair, a few had made
use of the word. Stirring as if the seat had spikes. He came forward appalling yell at the speakers:
"Donkeys, donkeys!" as he used to do in the Saloncillo, fulminate against them or one of those
ferocious sarcasm raised rash. "Those antics" had stirred the bile. It was a miracle. We know
the great virtue of segregation the liver of the former Marine had. Breathing hard, smiling
sarcastically, gritting spitting teeth and often, thus showing their disapproval of what had been
said, what was being said and what was said. From time to time, let out a bah! or some pouh!
or so! and other particles no less significant. Finally, in the middle of the speech of Don
Rosendo, or because nothing could oppose his grave eloquence, or
because the noise of the applause will be exacerbated so irresistible,
it is certain that out of the room, and began to walk through the
front door of the theater in a state of agitation regrettable.

A few times, went back inside and went to the pan.

There, listening to Don Rosendo touch the point of slaughter, sought
to please the populace to let him pass.

Once in the front row, cried stoutly:

- This does not play clean wheat!

Then he retired.

We do not know what it is, but it is certain that whenever a meeting is suggested by the idea any more
or less free play there is no clean wheat, this statement produces disastrous effects. This is even
more remarkable, since generally in assemblies has no wheat in their
pockets, neither clean nor dirty.

And if by chance any take him, it is certain that not even the thought would play with him.

Don Rosendo, on hearing the sentence, was suddenly silent and pale.

A loud murmur of surprise ran across the field of theater. Some shouted: - Out! - Others said:
- Chis, hush! - The eyes of all, after scrutinizing the heights of
the pan, they turned to the presidency.

Don Rosendo still troubled, and voice slightly hoarse, said:

- Gentlemen, if those words are to say that I, in convening this meeting, I have harbored some
thought bastard, my delicacy does not allow me to continue on this site, and I retire ...

- No, no! Continue! Long live the president!

- I am sure, gentlemen - he said, visibly moved, - that the individual he shouted not Sarrió neighbor,
was not born in Sarria, Sarrió can not be!

Having grumbled one that the switch was de Nieva, was assembled in the theater terrible confusion
and noise.

A formidable cry of: - Death to mazaricos! Sarrió Viva! - Rises of all parties. It should be noted that
in Sarrió were called residents because mazaricos Nieva perhaps the large number of birds of that
name there is usually there, while Sarrió Nieva finches were called
in for the same reason.

Finally appeased the spirits, Rosendo and gives thanks to public bodies.

- Prior to taking over this seat of honor (the president had retreated
to the back of the stage) I have to say that if the parrot ... or
Mazar (laughs) aims to snatch a statement about the problem of public
Macelo, I have no objection to it, because I do not clothes hurt.

(Viva, curiosity. You do not hear a fly fly.) I solemnly declare, gentlemen, the new Macel,
in my opinion, it must be placed elsewhere in the dump. (Immense sensation.)

He ends with a few words his great speech, and adjourned. Viewers leave the theater half asphyxiated,
both for the many emotions that were soon experienced, for the thirty-eight degrees Celsius was in
the room.

IX

A TALE OF TEARS

This happened at the top.

In the dark domain of privacy occurred at the same time, some events,
although not as memorable, were not without importance for people
involved in them.

The day after the interview and Gonzalo Venturita, we have described, he did not visit the house
of his fiancee. He remained in his, pretending to be afflicted by a severe sore molars. Such was
at least the news that reached Cecilia Elvira through the Maiden he saw the servant of Don Melchor
in the square. The next day, and did not appear either, assumed that the family was still pain.
No doubt more than Venturita and Valentina. The embroidery fled to stumble upon the look of the
girl. Maybe I would fear embarrassing, perhaps she herself felt embarrassed without knowing why.
Venturita was as cheerful as ever. Cecilia who only knew him a bad mood when he spoke less, out
of his comfortable toothpaste elixir, copied a prayer to Santa Poland had given him, and calling with
Elvira mystery to him said all flushed:

- Elvira, will you oblige me to take this bottle and this form to Miss Gonzales?

- Right now?

- When you can ... If we do not have to do ... I would not be whole ...

- Rest assured you, Miss - pale brunette said, smiling gently, - nobody will know a word. Her
mom is sending me for starch, and back, wham! I fit there.

Gonzalo Upon receiving the message, he felt sharp seized with remorse.
Began to walk restlessly in his room. Three or four times he was about
to take his hat and stand Belinchón home, and let things continue
as they had begun. Feelings honest, kind and compassionate in his
heart there, the voice of reason advocated in defense of Cecilia,
the angel, in short, that every man carries within himself, he encouraged
so I did. The gentle and graceful image Venturita present to remember:
the fire his eyes still flashed him the soul, the sweet touch of her
hair voluptuous gold, the devil, in order, held him back. Gonzalo
was a healthy man in body, powerful muscles, blood rich but very poor
control. The more scared the hell exhausted temperaments than to the
wealthy as yours. The battle between the devil and angel fought, did
not last long time. He came to decide in favor of the former Ventura
a little note that gender, the other maid of the house, brought him.
It read: Do not fret. Today I'll talk to Mom. Have confidence in your
- Ventura.

The look of the girl to give it, where thought he noticed
the smile despite a tacit censorship disturbed him a little. Sent
her away with a long tip. When you open later with a trembling hand
The letter caught the scent of sandalwood that Venturita used. Ofrecióse
sudden your imagination provocative beautiful image of the girl, and
removed every fiber in his being not yet had vibrated. Acercóla to
his lips, and drunk and throbbing with desire, he kissed frantically
repeatedly.

Poor Cecilia!
After the band came four rather shabby riders on horseback, then some men dressed apparently
in admiring imitation of Charles II.; then, to the wonder and whispered incredulity of the
crowd, Britannia on her triumphal car. The car--an elaborate cart, with gilt wheels and strange
cardboard figures of dolphins and Father Neptune--had in its centre a high seat painted white
and perched on a kind of box. Seated on this throne was Britannia herself--a large, full-bosomed,
flaxen-haired lady in white flowing robes, and having a very anxious expression of countenance,
as, indeed, poor thing, was natural enough, because the cart rocked the box and the box yet
more violently rocked the chair. At any moment, it seemed, might she be precipitated, a fallen
goddess, among the crowd, and the fact that the High Street was on a slope of considerable
sharpness did not add to her ease and comfort. Two stout gentlemen, perspiration bedewing their
foreheads, strove to restrain the ponies, and their classic clothing, that turned them into
rather tattered Bacchuses, did not make them less incongruous.

Britannia and her agony, however, were soon forgotten in the ferocious excitements that followed
her. Here were two camels, tired and dusty, with that look of bored and indifferent superiority
that belongs to their tribe, two elephants, two clowns, and last, but of course the climax
of the whole affair, a cage in which there could be seen behind the iron bars a lion and a
lioness, jolted haplessly from side to side, but too deeply shamed and indignant to do more
than reproach the crowd with their burning eyes. Finally, another clown bearing a sandwich-board
on which was printed in large red letters "Marquis' Circus--the Finest in the World--Renowned
through Europe--Come to the Church Meadows and see the Fun"--and so on.

As this glorious procession passed down the High Street the crowd expressed its admiration
in silent whispering. There was no loud applause; nevertheless, Mr. Marquis, were he present,
must have felt the air electric with praise. It was murmured that Britannia was Mrs. Marquis,
and, if that were true, she must have given her spouse afterwards, in the sanctity of their
privacy, a very grateful account of her reception.

When the band had passed a little way down the street and their somewhat raucous notes were
modified by distance, the sun came out in especial glory, as though to take his own peep at
the show, the gilt and cloth of gold shone and gleamed, the chair of Britannia rocked as though
it were bursting with pride, and the Cathedral bells, as though they too wished to lend their
dignified blessing to the scene, began to ring for Evensong. A sentimental observer, had he
been present, might have imagined that the old town was glad to have once again an excuse for
some display, and preened itself and showed forth its richest and warmest colours and wondered,
perhaps, whether after all the drab and interesting citizens of to-day were not minded to return
to the gayer and happier old times. Quite a noise, too, of chatter and trumpets and bells and
laughter. Even the Archdeacon forgot his official smile and laughed like a boy.

It was then that the terrible thing happened. Somewhere at the lower end of the High Street
the procession was held up and the chariot had suddenly to pull itself back upon its wheels,
and the band were able to breathe freely for a minute, to gaze about them and to wipe the sweat
from their brows; even in February blowing and thumping "all round the town" was a warm business.

Now, just opposite the Archdeacon were the two elephants, checked by the sudden pause. Behind
them was the cage with the lions, who, now that the jolting had ceased, could collect their
scattered indignities and roar a little in exasperated protest. They sat on them the finest Sarrió neighbors, and held secret meeting to resolve who was
to chair the meeting. Certainly not quite understand, and the public gave clear signs of impatience.
Most judged that corresponded Rosendo the honor of sitting behind the pine table, but he refused it with
modesty honored him far more. At last she has noted that the public was getting tired. This
stoutly applauded.

New and annoying delay before you work out who was to lead the word to the competition. Alvaro
Peña, who was a duty and acceleration, decided to take some steps towards mouth of the curtain,
and said aloud:

- Gentlemen.

- Chis, hush! Silence! - Shouted some.

And there was silence.

- Gentlemen: The purpose of this meeting celebrajse (surprise and extraordinary complacency
hearing the buzzword contest exotic) is none other eh, that's all unite to fomentaj moral and
material interests of Saji. A few days ago told me our most worthy
President that these interests were abandoned, eh, and it was necessary
at all costs fomentajlos. Gentlemen, there are several problems Saji
jesolvej at this historical moment; cubiejto mejcado the problem,
eh, the problem of the cemetery, the problem of cajetera Rodillero
to the problem of the slaughterhouse and others. In another movement his top-hat was snatched from his head and tossed into air....

He felt the animal's hot breath upon his face, heard the shouts and cries around him, and,
in very natural alarm, started back, caught at anything for safety (he had tumbled upon the
broad and protective chest of Samuel Hogg), and had a general impression of whirling figures,
of suns and roofs and shining faces and, finally, the high winds of heaven blowing upon his
bare head.

In another moment the incident was closed. The courtier of Charles II. had rushed up; the elephant
was pulled and hustled and kicked; for him swiftly the vision of power and glory and vengeance
was over, and once again he was the tied and governed prisoner of modern civilisation. The
top-hat lay, a battered and hapless remnant, beneath the feet of the now advancing procession.

Once the crowd realised that the danger was over a roar of laughter went up to heaven. There
were shouts and cries. The Archdeacon tried to smile. He heard in dim confusion the cheery
laugh of Samuel Hogg, he caught the comment of Croppet and the rest.

With only one thought that he must hide himself, indignation, humiliation, amazement that such
a thing could be in his heart, he backed, turned, almost ran, finding at last sudden refuge
in Bennett's book-shop. How wonderful was the dark rich security of that enclosure! The shop
was always in a half-dusk and the gas burnt in its dim globes during most of the day. All the
richer and handsomer gleamed the rows of volumes, the morocco and the leather and the cloth.
Old Mr. Bennett himself, the son of the famous man who had known Scott and Byron, was now a
prodigious age (in the town his nickname was Methusalem), but he still liked to sit in the
shop in a high chair, his white beard in bright contrast with the chaste selection of the newest
works arranged in front of him. He might himself have been the Spirit of Select Literature
summoned out of the vasty deep by the Cultured Spirits of Polchester.

Into this splendid temple of letters the Archdeacon came, halted, breathless, bewildered, tumbled.
He saw at first only dimly. He was aware that old Mr. Bennett, with an exclamation of surprise,
rose in his chair. Then he perceived that two others were in the shop; finally, that these
two were the Dean and Ronder, the men of all others in Polchester whom he least wished to find
there.

"Archdeacon!" cried the Dean.

"Yes--om--ah--an extraordinary thing has occurred--I really--oh, thank you, Mr. Wilton...."

Mr. Frank Wilton, the young assistant, had offered a chair.

"You'll scarcely believe me--really, I can hardly believe myself." Here the Archdeacon tried
to laugh. "As a matter of fact, I was coming out to see you...on my way...and the elephant..."

"The elephant?" repeated the Dean, who, in the way that he had, was nervously rubbing one gaitered
leg against the other.

"Yes--I'm a little incoherent, I'm afraid. You must forgive me... breathless too.... It's too
absurd. So many people..."

"A little glass of water, Mr. Archdeacon?" said young Wilton, who had a slight cast in one
eye, and therefore gave the impression that he was watching round the corner to see that no
one ran off with the books.

"No, thank you, Wilton.... No, thank you.... Very good of you, I'm sure. But really it was
a monstrous thing. I was coming to see you, as I've just said, Dean, having forgotten all about
this ridiculous procession. I was held up by the crowd just below the shop here. Then suddenly,
as the animals were passing, the elephant made a lurch towards me--positively, I'm not exaggerating--seized
my hat and--ran off with it!"

The Archdeacon had, as I have already said, a sense of fun. He saw, for the first time, the
humour of the thing. He began to laugh; he laughed more loudly; laughter overtook him altogether,
and he roared and roared again, sitting there, his hands on his knees, until the tears ran
down his cheek.

"Oh dear...my hat...an elephant...Did you ever hear----? My best hat...!" The Dean was compelled
to laugh too, although, being a shy and hesitating man, he was not able to do it very heartily.
Young Mr. Wilton laughed, but in such a way as to show that he knew his place and was ready
to be serious at once if his superiors wished it. Even old Mr. Bennett laughed as distantly
and gently as befitted his great age.

Brandon was conscious of Ronder. He had, in fact, been conscious of him from the very instant
of his first perception of him. So were the vegetables. For one to be
achieved by dint of care and vigilance, thirty or forty perished. Surveillance constant gardener was
not enough to prevent the considerable mortality.

The house style was not a national or even European. Was built according to the precepts chinoiserie
architecture, full of towers festooned everywhere. What connection had these tiny brick towers with
the famous Babel, where languages ​​were confused, we do not know, but we must say that this works
well trimmed, they called Babylon in the country of Don Rosendo. It was lavishly furnished.
No missing within it none of the comforts and refinements of modern civilization provides rich.
He was a famous Persian-style decorated room, bathroom, a spacious dining moderately cabinets painted
and some nice small and warm, where the light came sifted colored crystals.

In this nest came to stop and Ventura Gonzalo two hours of being together forever. On the way he had
spoken to disengage from things indifferent. The young man had applied some kisses on the cheeks
of the girl, the same as when lovers. But to get to the Babylonian and finding themselves alone in
the Persian camera, felt strangely confused and shortened. Search Subject conversation, and all was
lost. Venturita barely looked at him askance replied with expression between mocking and passionate.

-
Look, shut up, shut up!

You're saying a lot of nonsense ... Shut up and kiss me - concluded by say laughing and covering
her mouth with her delicate hand.

Gonzalo blushed, and hugged her frenzy.

His drunkenness in the early days bordered on madness. Venturita was, by its singular beauty the
languid, sensual expression of their eyes, the invincible tendency to break, true odalisque. But
not like these only a beautiful animal, but animated by wit sparkling, overflowing all the time
in funny misunderstandings and happy occurrences.

Gonzalo is roaring with laughter, not realizing that it is dangerous to husbands laugh too much jokes
about their wives.

The life you did was quite sedentary. A Ventura did not like leaving home. The sun produces headache;
the cool of the evening was irritated throat. Dressing took care of him, and varied costumes
same as if he were in Madrid. In her dressing spent a large part the day. This is not disliked
Gonzalo.

On the contrary, when I saw so beautiful and graceful exit, breathing, such as tropical flowers,
a penetrating perfume, felt himself possessed of enthusiasm. A voluptuous shudder shook her
whole being, thinking that this exquisite work of Nature was his, all its own.

However, it was not as much as he imagined.

Sometimes the young wife, half in earnest, half in jest, was locked in his room. They spent
three or four hours without allowing enter, despite the loving prayers
that reverberate in the keyhole.

- I deprive myself of my sight for
some time - said after laughing, - for having me want more with you.

And indeed, through these flirtations, the appetite grew extremely young, and became delirious.

In the hours that it pleased him to beautiful, went for a walk through
the gardens, without departing much.

To get somewhere shady and cool, of the few reformist hand gift Rosendo
had left, she wanted to sit, but not on the grass or on a rustic bench.

Gonzalo was a need to run home and bring a chair.

- Now, sit here at my feet.

The youth prostrated himself and kissed her hands enthusiastically
handed him the gentle wife.

- Samson and Delilah! - She exclaimed,
laughing and thrusting his hands like snowflakes in the curly blond
beard of her husband.

- You're right - he responded with a sigh .--
A bald Samson.

- Do not have hair!

... So what is this? - Replied by raising his hair, and putting bristling
as a broom.

- I speak of my strength.

- Do not have forces, eh?

Let's see: you take those arms.

The laughing, is stripped of his jacket, rolled up his sleeves and
showed his huge arms Gladiator, which took vigorous muscle relief
as a thick web of ropes.

- Good lord! - Taking one girl exclaimed
with both hands, unable to even come embrace.

And suddenly possessed of enthusiasm and admiration, he added:

- How strong, how beautiful you are, Gonzalo! Let me bite those arms.

And she bent to sink their teeth menudísimos them.

But the youth spread their ferrous muscles, and teeth slipped through the skin without penetrating.

Then
she got angry, he insisted, wanted by all means take meat.

After all, he loosened muscles saying

- I leave bite, but on condition that make me blood.

- No, that's
not - she answered, smiling eagerly expressing the desire to do so.

"Yes, I want to do blood and if not, do not leave.

The girl started slowly pressing the flesh of her husband.

- More!
- He said.

And tighter.

- More! - Again say.

While still squeezing his eyes sparkled with a mischievous smile.

- More! More!

- Basta - she said .-- rising See it? And made you blood!

What atrocity, and it was a dog!

I bent down and sucked eagerly voluptuous droplet of blood that leaped in the arm. Both smiled
with repressed passion. After looking at the small circle of blue that teeth of the girl had
stopped printing.

- You see? - Say it again .-- Go embarrassed about
the strange quirks of yours!

- Thanks.

I want this mark stay, there forever.

But no soon be deleted, alas!

- I can renew it every day - he replied mischievously.

- I would be delighted.

- Come on, you want to turn your woman on dog. Say frankly.

And suddenly hugging and kissing him wildly in his eyes, cheeks, mouth,
on the chin, he kept repeating:

- Say it honestly!

Say frankly, a piece of bear! ... This mouth is mine, and kiss. This beard is mine, and kissed
her. This neck is mine, and kissed him. These arms are mine, mine! and kiss.

- Take me everything: my life is yours - he said that drunk.

- I love you I love you, Gonzalo, so beautiful, so strong ... Let's
see, let me put a hand on yours ... What nonsense, seems an ant!

-
A white ant - he replied that drowning tiny hand in his large fibrous.

-
I love you I love you, Gonzalo.

Take me in your arms.

Can you walk with me as well?

- Oh! I not be?

Lifted like a feather, and put on one arm and children, began jumping up in the garden.

- Not so much! Take me gently. Let's ride.

The fatigue-walked around the park. And from that day for a walk that way liked both the girl,
who left the house as it hung around the neck of her husband to the go up. The servants shook
their heads at them smiling.

But she soon found other means even more fun. There was a swing close to home that time, rather
than use, had deteriorated. He had arranged, and as it was spent hours soon rocked by Gonzalo.

- If you saw how joy. It's a little stronger.

And the vigorous drive of the young, flying swing, and she closed her eyes dilating nose with
a feeling of intense pleasure.

Gonzalo enjoyed seeing her so enraptured.

Passed twenty days of this sort.

During that received two visits Pablito and Pisces, once in tilbury
and another horse.

In the latter into its main purpose was to riding a pony that Paul had changed to another older.
And strange! despite the alienation love that our boy was, he was
visited by Equitable with inexplicable joy, eagerly helped in his
task.

When he left he felt a sense of emptiness in his life. Because it was so calm and peaceful,
their blood and muscles suffering. A day he told his wife to go hunting, he was famous and tireless
hunter. Venturita not opposed, provided it with you.

This was agreed. They went out one morning to find a flock of partridges, whose existence
Gonzalo knew from the day he had come to Tejada. But before two kilometers away from the house,
rendered entirely Venturita said. He could not go a step further. Was obliged to bring in
arms and give up your favorite recreation.

Dona Paula, who had looked with hostility the marriage, it talked
about going to see the bride and groom until after many days past.

Pablito wanted to accompany her, fearing that Cecilia will cause some pain to do so, but, aware
it said his decision to go also Tejada. One afternoon mother and daughter in a carriage undertaken
discovered the path leading possession. But as he approached her and descry the famous brick turrets,
Cecilia began to fade, she felt her breast and troubled eye.

Dona Paula, who warned his illness, ordered the driver to turn around.

- Poor child! - The kissing said .-- See how you can not come?

- Because I can, Mom, I'll be able - said covering his eyes with one hand.

The next day, was accompanied by Paul Dona Paula. Found a very enabling spouses to leave hiding
the nest and move into the villa, as was done in the same week.

Cecilia left her at the front door and hugged and kissed his sister with effusion. A Gonzalo,
held out his hand, which for a sovereign effort of will, not shaken. The young pressed with brotherly
affection, believing forgiven.

The couple occupied the rooms that Dona Paula had gone into their first child. Life began to
slide serene appearance. Gonzalo warned, however, with regret, they do not wrap the warm and loving
atmosphere that makes it so pleasing the domestic hearth. From Don Rosendo to the last servant,
showed them attentive, deferential, not loving. Ventura not warned, and warned if he cared little.

Let
us now view the most interesting issues of public life Sarrió.

That noble victory won clerics, things Sarrió Lighthouse, came well and prosper. The spirited
and intrepid naval aide was able to continue its civilizing campaign
without danger of new traps.

Sinforoso not withdraw, however, to his home unless accompanied him or another friend, both well
armed.

But Gabino Maza, the eternal dissident maliciously took advantage of this break with Church,
to shock the consciences of some neighbors. Not that he was a fervent Catholic, nor give a damn that
you put the priests and parsley leaf. On the contrary, all life had professed quite unorthodox
ideas and had cursed the blessed. But now showed shocked: "At last, after all, had been raised in
respect of religion, which is the only check on the people. You can not blatantly offend the
sacred beliefs of our wives, etc., etc. "Some of these perfidious insinuations, left newspaper
subscription.

The writers and director, who guessed where it came from the coup, were greatly incensed. Gabino
Maza, supported by no less wayward Delaunay, not give up its campaign of slander. While some of the
Lighthouse was before, nothing, but as he went, brandishing the languages ​​with singular ferocity.
Sometimes serious, others appeal to ridicule, was ground to all those involved in the newspaper,
and particularly, of course, the best and most highly personified
as the virtuoso Don Rosendo.

They said oh, wanes! that only the desire "to be in print" had led to those deserving citizens
to light the torch of progress in Sarrió, Don Rufo, the doctor was a fraud; Sinforoso, a pauper who
threw a crust; Alvaro Peña (here the voice and looked down at all sides), a trial without a hint
of smarty, Don Feliciano Gómez, a poor devil who mattered most not engage in a thriving business,
Don Rudesindo, a large taciturn, which was rent a store and announce their cider. As the founder
and promoter of that company, Don Rosendo, said that all life had been a Badulaque, a fool who
believed writer without understanding anything other than the rise
and fall of cod ...

Only imperative duty to appear as faithful and
impartial chroniclers, forces us to realize of such talk.

God knows who has been with hard work and disgust. Because the same pen trembles in our hands
and refuse to print such abominations.

Don Pedro Miranda, absteníanse of the whisperers whisper, for no other reason but have you
applied for leave to participate in the newspaper, which saw him bow from the fray of the clergy,
as was Don Pedro and very large old Christian friend chaplain of the Augustinians. With their
malicious speeches had been made against the newspaper unleashing
some influential ladies of the town, including Dona Brigida.

This had at his of the Club within the madman and degraded Marín.

Also attracted to his side, soon after the drunk mayor.

On the one hand the spirit of fellowship with the circles of Morana
shop, and other discomfort I felt with the constant excitations press,
which was not used, will soon deny he made enormous progress.

What I ended up putting wrong with The Lighthouse and its editors,
was some press release that are censored City Hall and the mayor with
some hardness on the sad neglect that had the urban police services,
and how little work to do enjoyable summer "The distinguished scrofulous
attending Sarrió beach in search of health."

Although apparently were treated as friends, there was, therefore,
between the main partners Saloncillo deaf and hidden enemy.

It was increasing day by day thanks to the go-between that in similar cases, do not cease to
sow envy and resentment.

Temíanse and disputes and shunned because the monstrous cries and
hurled insults previously without success any thanks to the compromise
that was friendly to all, were, at present, much danger.

There was, therefore, in that place, more silence, more courtesy,
but far less frankness and cordiality.

That tension could not last long. Among people who are daily and speak, and do not want it is impossible
that in the near future be sure to burst contention. The occasion
was this.

Reached Saloncillo (was poor chance!), Without knowing who bring
a copy Illustration of some Catalan, where, among other prints, looked
one representing the American banks of a river, and amuse them up
to a dozen crocodiles of various sizes.

Had in hand exemplary Maza, when Don Rufo approaching from behind, said jokingly:

- Look at those skinny crocodiles!

- There are crocodiles - Maza said dryly contemptuous, without looking
up.

- Why not to be? - Said the doctor injured by that tone.

- Why
not.

- Valiente right!

- If you're not convinced, considering that
I'm not here to do works of mercy.

- Ugh!

The sage of Greece! To one side, gentlemen!

- I am not a scientist, but do not say that these animals are crocodiles,
when the Marañón River not bred crocodiles.

- What are they?

- Cayman.

-
Call hache!

Alligators and crocodiles come to be the same.

- Another awful! Where did you learn that?

- Man, is last nail.

The alligator and the crocodile did not differ only in name. Here is Don Lorenzo has traveled,
and can tell if it is not true.

- The alligator is somewhat smaller - said Don Lorenzo with conciliatory smile.

- The size is of little importance. The question is whether or not the same figure.

Don Lorenzo bowed in assent. Maza jumped, in a rage:

- But, gentlemen. But, gentlemen! Are we among enlightened people or among villagers? Where you
take that alligator is like crocodile? The crocodile is an animal of the Old World and the alligator
is the New World.

- Excuse me, friend Maza, I have seen crocodiles in the Philippines - said Don Rudesindo.

- What do you mean by that?

- As you said that crocodiles are not reared in the New World ...

- Other than this! "The Philippines is the New World? Gentlemen, gentlemen! have to open their
umbrellas. Nonsense raining here today.

- Why, do you want to say that the Philippines is not overseas? - Asked Don Rudesindo with the
face was broken.

- Nothing, nothing, follow the shower!

- The main difference, gentlemen, between the crocodile and the alligator - "here Don Lorenzo
seasoning authority - is that the crocodile has three races and the alligator teeth only two.

-
Not that, man, is not it! Crocodiles have the same teeth as racing alligators.

Don Lorenzo said briskly his assertion. We helped in the defense don Rudesindo. Maza attacked him no
less fire, supported by Delaunay. Soon entered the fray a few other partners generalized combat,
which was becoming more alive. The voices were horrendous. If they had possessed three races of teeth
such as crocodiles, or even if they were two, no doubt would devour,
Given the anger and the courage with which they taught the only with
which Nature had endowed them.

Maza was so impudent, insolent, who finally Rudesindo gift, without being master of himself,
he downloaded an umbrella on his head. Ensued him a hail of them among the contenders, with
an awful sound of whales and wire rods that the man was shivering more Arriscado. Many who had not
even agreed to give its opinion on the teeth the reptiles mentioned, received its share of umbrella,
as well as the most had clarified the matter with their speeches. Coffee rose the master with some
other people, the Indians stopped their game of pool, broke in Don Melchor de las Cuevas from
whom and in war and peace is a long case. Finally he managed to defuse the uproar and conclude that
the will, for some months cold.

The result was that from that day Gabino Maza, Delaunay, Don Roque Marín and three or four
members were removed from the Club. Don Pedro Miranda continued to assist with long intervals of absence.
This was presumed to social gatherings and other editors Faro could
not count on him, and did not take long to fall on the opposite side.

As came into effect. Dissidents began meeting in the coffee house located in the Caborana street.
But not many months after the town ran the news that rented a warehouse across the street from San
Florencio to establish their meetings. And so it was. The parquet, carpeted it, then painted the
walls and ceiling, with some chairs and amuebláronlo armchairs, set up tables of triplets and began
attending evening and night to that site as assiduously as before the Club. As low ceiling and be embedded
in a wall litter was used to nap Marin, began calling the place in the population the cabin, and
the name stuck. The Lighthouse, which had spurned the deserters while had no roof to shelter, went
into care. The first sign of fear was a press hand or novel in verse, prose describing this
new gathering and painting each of its members with animal names, Maza the snake, a rooster Delaunay
Belgian Marín ass Roque pork, etc., etc. This press exasperated the cabin of an unspeakable way.

Don
Rosendo still growing strong and committed to his campaign journalism. Introduced Faro in all those
ways that have looked at the national and foreign press, particularly in French. Had commissioned
a writer in Madrid for Wednesday send her a message of twenty words, and I also write political
letters and literary; translated all the news he was curious in the newspapers made fashion
magazines, courts, theater (when there was company.) But where was most distinguished in the
markets.

It is not easy skill with which he drove, and had brought cereal, oils, broth and rice. In order
to see how amenity and gallantry knew how to treat a matter so commonplace, say he once wrote:
"The honey, sensitive to these alterations, spoke in low and did not reach stability and firmness
in prices until coffees, cocoas and other genera living overseas were able to suppress their
swings. " Was, in short, the soul of the newspaper.

It was not enough, however, what he had done to bring it up to your
ideal. Belinchón always followed with lively interest in the Paris
newspapers these personal controversies rarely left to end a duel.
And the adventures of this, carefully counted by a witness, it pleased
him so extremely, that no food was so delicious to him, no more pleasant
recreation. When many days passed without challenge, Don Rosendo languished.
Descriptions of assault weapons among shooters famous capital of France,
also excited greatly curious. And if a little is entangled in those
technical phrases Magin Sixt engagement, battement in quarte, contre-riposte,
feint, etc., back to the translated his way and was aware of it. He
said that no sign was better known the extent of culture of a country
in the hobby to arms. The handling of them woke up and fanned the
idea of honor and dignity. His retirement drew him of cowardice and
degradation. Knew better than their relatives the biography of the
greatest duelists and armes des gens de Paris. Could and verse describe
the challenges they had and the severity of injuries. As announced
an assault between two masters, for example Grisier Jacob was already
our knight excited. Hastily opened the Figaro daily and bet on Inside
one or the other.

One day it occurred in the bed (where he always
attacked the big ideas) to be journalist without knowing or handle
weapons, was the same as a dancer and not playing the castanets. When
you least expect it raised a set, you had to go to ground, and he
did not even know be on guard. Sarrió true that all who knew there
was more. But nobody had obligation to know as much fencing as he.
Moreover, the argument could be a journalist Lancia or Madrid, and
then had to be left murder. These imaginings led him to adopt a resolution,
that of learning at all costs to pull the foil. How? It was not that he had grown to disregard her, as do many sons, because of the
monotonous regularity of her presence. Nor was it that he despised her because he seemed so
vastly to have outgrown her. He had not been unkind nor patronising nor contemptuous--he had
simply not yet thought about her. The circumstances of his recent return, however, had forced
him to consider every one in the house. He had his secret preoccupation that seemed so absorbing
and devastating to him that he could not believe that every one around him would not guess
it. He soon discovered that his father was too cock-sure and his sister too innocent to guess
anything. Now he was not himself a perceptive man; he had, after all, seen as yet very little
of the world, and he had a great deal of his father's self-confidence; nevertheless, he was
just perceptive enough to perceive that his mother was thinking about him, was watching him,
was waiting to see what he would do....

His secret was quite simply that, for the last year, he had been devastated by the consciousness
of Annie Hogg, the daughter of the landlord of "The Dog and Pilchard." Yes. devastated was
the word. It would not be true to say that he was in love with her or, indeed, had any analysed
emotion for her--he was aware of her always, was disturbed by her always, could not keep away
from her, wanted something in connection with her far deeper than mere love-making--

What he wanted he did not know. He could not keep away from her, and yet when he was with her
nothing occurred. She did not apparently care for him; he was not even sure that he wanted
her to. At Oxford during his last term he had thought of her--incessantly, a hot pain at his
heart. He had not invited the disturbance that had sent him down, but he had welcomed it.

Every day he went to "The Dog and Pilchard." He drank but little and talked to no one. He just
leaned up against the wall and looked at her. Sometimes he had a word with her. He knew that
they must all be speaking of it. He put the hairdresser or the girl wearing matinee, and entertained good
while carefully drawing silk ties that are holding ahead. When portrait was finished. Venturita
accent told picaresque:

- Now, who is put under.

The young man raised his head and smiling eyes clashed. Then, with brilliance and decision wrote
under the picture: What I love most in the world.

Venturita took the paper in his hands and stared for a moment with
pleasure.

Then with a grimace of disdain handed it back saying:

- Take, take,
liar.

But before reaching the hands of Gonzalo, Cecilia extended his and snatched him laughing.

- What are those pieces of paper?

Venturita, as if it had a flat tire, jumped on the seat and held her
wrist tightly of his sister.

- Give, give, Cecilia!

Stop it! - Said breathing fire with his face, made by forced smile.

- No, I see it.

- You'll see later, go!

- I see it now.

- Come on, girl, Leave it to see.

What do you care? - Said Dona Paula.

- I do not want anyone to force it off - cried becoming serious. Then, realizing the recklessness of
this, turned to be cheerful.

- Come on, Cecilia, loose, do not be evil.

- What a commitment!

Drops you who hurt me!

- Who are you to take my hand paper? - Uttered in anger, turning this
time really serious .-- Loose, loose, ugly parrot noses, silly!

... Let go, or I scratch you! - Added with flashing eyes and the face broken by anger.

Seeing her in that way, the laughter that shook his chest suddenly
paralizóse Cecilia, and opening her large eyes which was painted surprise,
exclaimed:

- Jesus!

You look crazy, girl. Take, take, will not give you something.

And dropped the crumpled piece of paper that in the fist.

Venturita have altered the face, he did a thousand pieces.

- In the days of my life have I seen a wild creature! - Crossing himself exclaimed Dona Paulina
Ave .-- Mary!

Ave Maria! Who did you get that genie, girl?

- Would you - plastered Venturita said, without looking at anyone.

-
Shameless!

... If not there are people looking forward!

... How do you answer that So your mother, naughty? Do not you know
the commandments of God's law?

Tomorrow I will Don Aquilino to confess.

- Well, give reports to Don Aquilino.

- Wait, wait, very great rascal! - Called Mrs. doing started to rise
to punish her daughter.

But at that moment appeared at the door of Don Rosendo with multicolored robe velvet hat with
silk tassel.

- What? - Asked amazed watching his wife's angry attitude.

This will put the current, choked with sobs, the lack of respect for
his daughter.

Don Rosendo was believed in the case of frown, and say solemnly:

- That's wrong, Ventura. Go to apologize to your mom.

He knew he was distracted, absorbed in some thought, and that domestic incident could not wring
more than half of their concern.

However, to see the girl still in haughty and dismissive, he said again, more firmly

- Come, daughter, go to ask for forgiveness, because you have offended.

The

girl made his peculiar grimace of contempt in his lips, and whispered softly:

- Yes, that's what I'm thinking!

- Go, Ventura, what muttering there? Go, before I get angry.

- Go, go, Venturita. Go there. Do not be so - he said under his seamstresses.

- I do not want. Will you leave me alone? - She answered quietly, too, but with angry tone.

- Do not want to go? - Asked Don Rosendo with severely affected .--
Do not you want to go?

The girl stood motionless and silent.

- Then get out of here now! Get out of my sight!

Venturita rose from his chair, went through the middle of the upright and sulking competition,
and went the room making a big bang.

Don Rosendo, after remaining motionless for a moment with eyes fixed on the door where his daughter
had gone, he turned, saying:

- I'm sorry to be so strong with my
daughters ... but sometimes no choice.

VII

THAT IS OF TWO TRAITORS

Sudden blurred pseudomarítima his noble face the fearful expression that darkened and appeared
distracted again that another sign of constant meditation.

- Gonzalo,
if you do not mind, I ask you to pierce me at the office - said addressing
to his future son.

This, that during the previous scene was pale and returned to his
being repeatedly turned at confusing.

Nothing less struck him that Rosendo was unaware of the instability their feelings of love,
and I would ask it close consideration. Was, therefore, behind his head bowed and suspicious, and
entered the desktop.

It was a spacious room, furnished with rich merchant class: large solid mahogany table, mahogany
cabinets, too, where there bundles of papers more than books, velvet carpet, couches lined with
brocade, and massive silver inkstand as a monument. About a quarter of this camera ocupábalo
a lot of packets wrapped in several colors, to whoever first Once entered into it, would be
a mystery. Gonzalo was not for or to any of the intimate of the house. Those packages kept
toothpicks.

How? - Ask the reader .-- Don Rosendo Belinchón, a dealer in both
stem, traded also on toothpicks?

No, Don Rosendo not traded with them, make them. And this not to speculate, unworthy of its kind,
but pure and selfless inclination of his spirit. From a very young man had told him. The regulars
trade occupations and the vicissitudes through which he passed his
existence, had not consented to meet this passion but in a materially
poor at times lost.

But since she could leave the desktop to some of the faithful entrusted dependent entregóse
full heart and soul a distraction so helpful and honest. In the morning at the store Graells,
in the afternoon Saloncillo in the evening at home or in the Don Pedro Miranda, always working.
His servant occupied much of the day in court a few blocks of dry
hazel perfectly equal, where his right hand had to take the show of
the sticks.

And was not about to rest, even on holidays, production was excessive. There were not enough consumers
in the village, and saw packages needed to recall them friends of the capital, when the pile reached
the ceiling clearance. Thanks to the efforts noblest of the clear representative of their trade, we
can proudly say that Sarrio in this interesting field of progress, was at the height of the
big cities. No other Spanish town or foreign competition could suffer with it. Home of the rich,
as in the artisan, never missing a well-stocked toothpick, undisputed testimony the refined
culture of its inhabitants.

Rosendo said a couch to his son in infancy, and he was frightened and let himself fall into it sinking
deeply.

After the trader approached a chair with an air of mystery, and sitting front of the young and looking
between smiling and embarrassed, he said, giving the same time a pat on the thigh

- Let's see, Gonzalito: how about the issue of slaughter?

- Is the slaughter? - Said it opened his eyes wide as fists.

- Yes, the new slaughterhouse, do you think should be placed in the dump, or on the beach of
Meanas behind the houses of Don Rudesindo?

Gonzalo saw heaven opened, and, smiling with pleasure, he replied:

- I believe that the Meanas beach would be nice ... Very open that
... well ventilated ...

But noting that his father's forehead was
wrinkled, and her eyes suddenly subsided smile, said stammering:

-
Nor do I think it would be wrong with the spring ...

- Much better,
Gonzalo ... Infinitely better!

- Can, can.

- Man, so it may be,
I will tell you privately that the location on the beach I judge (Please
save me the reservation on this opinion), I judge ... a veritable
folly ... u-na do-da-de-ra in-sen-sa-skinned - all the best pointing
repeated syllables.

- And this opinion of mine - he said - do not
go to refiguring it yesterday morning, but throughout life.

Since I was able to understand certain things, I realized that the slaughterhouse would not
be where is today. In a word, that should be moved. Where? An inner voice always told me that
the dump. Before you can give any scientific reason, I was as convinced as that there was now
located, and not elsewhere. Now that the resolution of the problem approaches, I think I have to hold
this view, to communicate my thoughts to the people and the result of my musings. If you do
not have to do I will read your letter I am writing Progress on this occasion the Lancia.

And indeed, without waiting for the answer to Gonzalo, he went to the table, picked up a specification
paper that was on it, put on his glasses, and stood on the balcony gave beginning, not without
some emotion that is reflected by the voice, reading the letter.

Commercial paper was written in large, striped. All that for years led the Advancement of Lancia
and other newspapers in the capital of the province, were written in the same role on both sides.
Although he did not know that the press was written by a only. But soon acquired this precious
knowledge, as we shall see.

Almost simultaneously with that of toothpicks Rosendo was born in Belinchón the fans to write press
releases to newspapers: that is, dating from a remote antiquity. Ardent supporter of human progress,
reforms at all levels, from the discussion and light, it is clear that the press had to command
respect and enthusiasm. Newspapers had always been an essential element of their existence.
He was signed to many national and foreign, because, as taught to trade, was well acquainted with
French and English and had never missed, even in the busiest days, a couple of hours to spend
to read.

These times are significantly increased for some years, but not that it would suffer by cod. The
enjoyment that our hero felt in the morning after taking the chocolate
swallowing the substantive articles of the national flag, the Loose
Politics and the Nouvelles à la main of Figaro was so vivid, it was
printed long in the face until the radiation was being lost in the
atmosphere.

Like all men of broad and lofty view, it was not exclusive in their tastes newspaper. He loved
the daily newspaper, as a kind shows the progress of human reason or as he put it best, "a demonstration
raised public awareness." Opinions which each defended, were a secondary. I was subscribed to newspapers
in all colors, and equally enjoyed. If you showed any predilection, it was only for the items
loose meaning.

Because that's saying one thing and pretending to express the opposite twist phrases so that a
clause carry innocent appearance in a "poisoned arrow" was in awe of Don Rosendo and drove him
crazy with joy. Read many times The Spain one paragraph with the style: - "Yesterday it was
finally the circular of the President Supreme of their subordinates. Congratulations to General
O'Donnell, president of this situation liberal, Mr. Negrete, who
has given a lucid moment atop a colossal work, and Democrat protection
of this Government "- had exclaimed waving a newspaper in his hands:
- What intention!

Caracoles! What intention!

This desire, rather, this passion for the press, it was not platonic as we warned. Back in his
youth had sent two letters to a weekly newspaper that was published in Lancia, entitled The
Fall, on the occasion of the annual festivals that are held in Sarrió September. These letters
leyéronse to fruition in the town and earned him quite a few congratulations. This encouraged
him to write three more the following year, informing the public
of the number Amazing rockets that were fired Sarrió on 13, 14 and
15, the pretty little light of 16, and the lavish ball held at the
Lyceum on the night of 17.

After having tasted the sweetness of advertising, Rosendo could not
help tasting it from time to time.

The slightest pretext was enough to lead either a letter, sometimes a statement to newspapers.
Sometimes signed his name, others with any funny pseudonym or anagram. Celebrating the skippers a party
in honor of San Telmo: Rosendo immediately wrote a letter Lancia or the Progressive Bee, describing
the festival, fireworks, Mass, the procession, etc. It gave a banquet in the new school building
to inaugurate: after three or four days, the newspaper received the
usual letter Lancia publishing toasts and improvised sonnets.

It fell from a scaffold builder, reported Don Rosendo asking for more guarantees for the builders
who put on the scaffolding. Sung mass the son of Don Aquilino, Rosendo letter describing the
moving ceremony, praising clear voice and sound and serenity of the young priest. If the tides
were high and strong and tore some stones from the tip of the Pawn; letter. If the vessel refused
Bilbao to take on board pilots Sarrió; statement. If you missed the corn harvest drought; letter.
If the prevailing winds were from the Northwest; letter. In short, no event befell in the soil
or the atmosphere of the town worthy of mention, who did not receive the right hand and well-cut
pen of our merchant.

Much work is avoided Sarrió to future historians of this valuable material Joined by one of
the clearest children!

As he advanced in years Belinchón Rosendo, his letters gave a less romantic, if not frivolous
(it would be as inaccurate as such disrespectful epithet applied to writings of that estimable
gentleman). That is, these issues were not so often the feast and recreation of the inhabitants of
the town, as anything that would tend directly or indirectly to promote the moral and material
from it.

Markets, schools, the rescue of the shipwrecked, the erection of
a temple or a prison, etc., etc. were the issues that for His glory
and good of the people that he was born, they exercised more often.

One of them, of "vital interest to Sarrió" as he said very well,
was the slaughterhouses. Up then he had never addressed this issue,
knowing that their views would differ somewhat of a large part of
the neighborhood. More had come, in his view, the time of 'making
unambiguously or detours. " The statement he read was the first thing
about this issue addressed the Advancement of Lancia. Began:

"Mr.
Director of the Lancia Progeso. 

Dear Sir: The choice with which
you look at the physical and natural sciences, and in particular Health
science as it influences the health of both peoples as the individuals,
in view of its great practical value, has been slowly banish shyness
of those who, influenced by a poor education and almost wrong, condemned
the study of these great problems dragged by old and clumsy happily
concerns will dispel the powerful breath of the nineteenth century,
rightly called the Age of Enlightenment. "

Don Rosendo paragraphs
were always abundant as the previous. Continued:

"Today that civilization,
broken the constraints holding back the consciousness and subject
the spirit, opens vast field all through the press to express our
free thinking and issue to the face of the world, trusting friendship
with you I have always distinguished, and the leniency with which
the public has received so far the humble birth of my pen, etc., etc.
"

After three or four paragraphs by way of preamble (that the director
of El Progreso used to cut) Rosendo entered on the issue, studying
the slaughterhouse or Macelo groups, as he named them, through all
its stages, to come to condemn, in terms not gave rise to doubts,
its location on the beach of Meanas. His reasons for opposing it were
"obvious." On the one hand, winds from the southwest, reigning most
year, they pulled it foul miasma, etc. and so on. Moreover, the difficulty
to find firm ground for the foundation, which could cause excessive
spending, etc.., etc. In addition, the need to enter the cattle population,
etc., Etc. In addition, proximity houses, etc. In addition, the injury
to bathers are incurred, etc., Etc. In end, were more than twenty
reasons Rosendo "pointed in a light and brief" proposes to give "wider
and development" in other letters successive thought 'disturbing the
attention of the readers of your illustrious newspaper. "

When finished
reading, the deemed incontrovertible Gonzalo and Don Rosendo (with
goggles at the tip of the nose) said that they had no turning back.
Having reached agreement so perfect, full of joy broke naturally.
Don Rosendo stayed in the office putting clean your letter. Gonzalo
went back to the sewing room. However, before crossing the door, called
his father to tell his future:

- Of this, not a word to anyone, eh?

-
Don Rosendo, for God's sake - the young man raising his hand in protest.

He was finally regarded as "quite mad," and was seen to talk aloud to himself as he walked
about the streets.

"An unhappy example," Miss Dobell said, "of the artistic temperament, that wonderful gift,
gone wrong."

Falk had seen him often before at the "Dog and Pilchard," and had wondered at first whether
Annie Hogg was the attraction. It was soon clear, however, that there was nothing in that.
He never looked at the girl nor, indeed, at any one else in the place. He simply sat there
moodily staring in front of him and drinking.

To-day it was clear that Falk had caught his attention. He looked across the room at him with
a queer defiant glance, something like Falk's own. Once it seemed that he had made up his mind
to come over and speak to him.

He half rose in his seat, then sank back again. But his eyes came round again and again to
the corner where Falk was sitting.

The Cathedral chimes had whispered twice in the room before Annie returned.

"What is it you're wanting?" she asked.

"Come outside and speak to me."

"No, I can't do that. Father's watching."

"Well, will you meet me one evening and have a talk?"

"What about?"

"Several things."

"It isn't right, Mr. Brandon. What's a gentleman like you want with a girl like me?"

"I only want us to get away a little from all this noise and filth."

Suddenly she smiled.

"Well, I don't mind if I do. After supper's a good time. Father goes up the town to play billiards.
After eight."

"When?"

"What about to-morrow evening?"

"All right. Where?"

"Up to the Mill. Five minutes up from here."

"I'll be there," he said.

"Don't let father catch 'ee--that's all," she smiled down at him. "You'm a fule, Mr. Brandon,
to bother with such as I." He said 'nothing and she walked away. Very shortly after, Davray
got up from his seat and came over to Falk's corner. It was obvious that he had been drinking
rather heavily. He was a little unsteady on his feet.

"You're young Brandon, aren't you?" he asked.

In ordinary times Falk would have told him to go to the devil, and there would have been a
row, but to-day he was caught away so absolutely into his own world that any one could speak
to him, any one laugh at him, any one insult him, and he would not care. He had been meditating
for weeks the advance that he had just taken; always when one meditates for long over a risk
it swells into gigantic proportions. So this had been; that simple sentence asking her to come
out and talk to him had seemed an impossible challenge to every kind of fate, and now, in a
moment, the gulf had been jumped...so easy, so strangely easy....

From a great distance Davray's words came to him, and in the dialogue that followed he spoke
like a somnambulist.

"Yes," he said, "my name's Brandon."

"I knew, of course," said Davray. "I've seen you about." He spoke with great swiftness, the
words tumbling over one another, not with eagerness, but rather with a kind of supercilious
carelessness. "Beastly hole, isn't this? Wonder why one comes here. Must do something in this
rotten town. I've drunk enough of this filthy beer. What do you say to moving out?"

Falk looked up at him.

"What do you say?" he asked.

"Let's move out of this. If you're walking up the town I'll go with you."

Falk was not conscious of the man, but it was quite true that he wanted to get out of the place
now that his job in it was done. He got up without a word and began to push through the room.
He was met near the door by Hogg.

"Goin', Mr. Brandon? Like to settle now or leave it to another day?"

"What's that?" said Falk, stopping as though some one had touched him on the shoulder. He seemed
to see the large smiling man suddenly in front of him outlined against a shifting wall of mist.

"Payin' now or leavin' it? Please yourself, Mr. Brandon."

"Oh--paying!" He fumbled in his pocket, produced half-a-crown, gave it to Hogg without looking
at him and went out. Davray followed, slouching through the room and passage with the conceited
over-careful walk of a man a little tipsy.

Outside, as they went down the street still obscured with the wet mist, Davray poured out a
flow of words to which he seemed to want no answer.

"I hope you didn't mind my speaking to you like that--a bit unceremonious. But to tell you
the truth I'm lonely sometimes. Also, if you want to know the whole truth and nothing but the
truth, I'm a bit tipsy too. Generally am. This air makes one feel queer after that stinking
hole, doesn't it? If you can call this air. I've seen you there a lot lately and often thought
I'd like to talk to you. You're the only decent- looking fellow in the whole of this town,
if you'll forgive my saying so. Isn't it a bloody hole? But of course you think so too. I can
see it in your face. I suppose you go to that pub after that girl. I saw you talking to her.
Well, each man to his taste. I'd never interfere with any man's pleasure. I loathe women myself,
always have. They never appealed to me a little bit. In Paris the men used to wonder what I
was after. I was after Ambition in those days. Funny thing, but I thought I was going to be
a great painter once. Queer what one can trick oneself into believing--so I might have been
if I hadn't come to this beastly town. Hope I'm not boring you...."

He stopped as though he had suddenly realised that his companion had not said a word. 

The boy did not dare, and continued smiling.

- Pull you, pull you - she insisted her back and thrusting back his
hair over his face.

Gonzalo her hand to him, but did no more than caress.

- What, has not been? It is very secure.

And he ran from the room.

Still took a while whispering secret. Touched on some points of the
afterlife.

Cecilia listened to her mother lecture on what to do once married,
feeling a tingle in the soul that was barely powerful hide.

He had taken a hand and squeezed and fondled nerve intermittently.

From time to time to his lips and kissed her hard.

Dona Paula looked at her smiling tenderness and rejoicing in the happiness that filled the heart
of his daughter.

The clock in the room vibrated, giving the 0:30.

Gonzalo rose hastily.

- Oh, how late! What will Don Rosendo?

- Never go to bed before this time - said Cecilia.

- Yes, but you
know I used a long time to close the doors - said Dona Paula.

Cecilia was silent. Gonzalo they shook hands warmly, promising to
return the next day.

After went to the office of Lord of Belinchón to say goodbye.

The mother and daughter continued chatting in the same corner on the same subject, receiving
first a number of hugs and kisses apretadísimos.

- This is not for me - said with a certain expression between happy
and sad.

- Yes, Mom, yes - the girl replied hugging her tighter.

Don Melchor de las Cuevas rose from the table, lit a cigar, and said,
offering another his nephew:

- Let's go for coffee.

Gonzalo wanted to keep it in his pocket because he had never previously allowed smoking in front
of his uncle, but he withheld his arm.

- Light, small, light, and boy you're no longer.

The young man took a match and began to take puffs on his cigar with
emotion.

Paired left the house and down slowly along the street enjoying the well-being Natures voluptuous
feel powerful after a big meal. Seemed two giant cedars, majestic, proud of their height. And they
kept the same silence them when they do not wind blows. The women who worked at the doors
of their houses looked on with curiosity touched with admiration.

- Who is the gentleman who goes to Don Melchor?

- Women, do not you know? The nephew, the Miss Gonzales, who arrived yesterday at the Bella-Paula.

-
What a real boy!

- Like his father, Don Mark, rest in peace.

- And like his grandfather, Don Benito - added an old family .-- What a noble and hearty!

At the intersections where they discovered a piece of sea, the Lord of the Caves would stop a moment
to take a searching look.

- For now calm. In a little breeze.

- Do you see? - Said with a look of triumph after a moment.

- What?

- The boats, man the boats. I have smelled!

- I see nothing, - said Gonzalo pulling the eyes descry on the horizon.

- Still as before. You can see is the soup in the dish - the guy said, smiling with pity.

The Marina boiled coffee and people. The rumor of the discussions and disputes, the ringing the glasses,
the shock of the dominoes on the marble tables, was a noise deafening. It was situated in a
square that formed the New Rúa to lead the spring, and one of its walls looked to the sea.
Reuníanse it most of the captains and pilots who were in Sarrió the way, and almost everyone who lived
without their work as in the village, plus the neighbors who felt one way or another maritime
inclinations. When crossing through screams were called to different
tables.

Don Melchor was the man more popular, the most loved and respected he entered the cafe. It was
necessary to approach to greet one and all, and introduce you to Gonzalo. Those wolves are staring
entranced; he pressed his hand to feeble, and offered with all the fervor of his heart a glass
of rum and maraschino.

When the board refused to talk about coffee above, deepest sadness on their faces are painted leather.

Don
Melchor was, in fact, the habit of taking in the Club. This was a room the main floor of the house,
which had communication with the coffee by means of a ladder iron. After she went by uncle
and nephew. They were gathered together remarkable people sitting on a couch run, each with Japanese
front tables, where everyone took coffee. On one door, which was usually open, saw the pool room where
always playing the same people surrounded by the same onlookers.

When Don Melchor and his nephew came, there was talk of a covered market for project preserve from the
weather to poor women selling vegetables and milk in the open. And Gonzalo recalled that on one
occasion they went to look for his uncle before going to England, was discussing the same subject.
The subjects varied little in that assembly. The existence of villa calm and quiet gliding amidst
the daily work. The only events that occasionally shake his lethargy were the entry or exit
of any major vessel, the death of an acquaintance, a bill protested, the paving of some streets,
failure of a cargo, the contraband stash, spring cleaning.

Women and boys were handiest matters to satisfy the human desire developments: the arrival of a handsome
stranger and stylish (great sensation among the marriageable girls) Fulanito Margarita that
accompanied the first ride (why it is a done deal seen already?), which Severino the hardware
store wear yourself out to beat his wife (well spent the is for marrying that ass !...). The
suit brought Fulanita Our Day Lady (say it came from Madrid Madrid ... What woman, if I myself
have seen it cut Martina!). The dance of trust that will be on Thursday at the Lyceum. (Do not touch
dance that day .-- Pagan spending the chicken neck.) Serious men
who met in the despised Saloncillo these issues, although from time
to time, by exception, stinging them.

Some, Don Rosendo, Don Mateo, Don Pedro Miranda and Mayor Don Roque, and Gonzalo I was greeted
last night. But there also were Gabino Maza, Don Feliciano Gomez French engineer M. Delaunay,
Alvaro Peña, Marin, Don Lorenzo, Don Agapito and five or six gentlemen, who rose up to embrace
him.

Don Pedro Miranda, whom we have already mentioned, was a man who had a good time of the sixties,
low height and color, shaved cheeks, head and lirondo peel, large eyes and dull, timid gestures.
It was the richest landowner of the population and genuine representative of the aristocracy
to come from an ancient family of landowners and have not certified person in the town that
best represent them. There was, however, important this privilege. He was affable, modest, with all
the neighbors alternated unattended their social condition, extremely helpful, if it were not for
money, and little friend to impose their will or contradict anyone. But if the pre-eminence
declined entirely birth, however, he was zealous in their property rights. He had never known
or owned more proprietary know that Don Pedro Miranda. The institutions of law force, the old
law, universities, army, navy, constitution politics and even religion, had no reason to be
in their eyes, but as elements that a direct or indirect entrenched those rights. The amazing machine
of the Universe was formed to support his undisputed title to the freehold of Praducos, village
situated half a mile from the village, and had direct on the Meanas, with a canon hundred and
fifteen ducats yearly.

This awareness of their right engendered very clear, however, excess
of clarity, some conflicts.

A settler came and said: - Lord, Joaquín el martinetero, has cut
the cane yesterday walnut hanging over their garden .-- But walnut
was mine! - Don Pedro exclaimed suddenly flushed with anger and surprise
.-- Yes, sir ... but hanging over their garden as ...--¿ How this
scoundrel dared to touch on one thing that is mine, mine? - immediately
filed an injunction, and naturally, he lost.

Of these injunctions had lost a few dozen in your life, without ever
deterrant.

Don Roque de la Riva, constitutional mayor Sarrió, who have been honored
to compare when I first saw him in the theater, a courtier of Louis
XV, or a coachman big house, not remarkable for the purity of diction,
before it was so run down and confused, that the caller he could scarcely
understand.

We do not know if it was in the mouth or throat or in the region
of the nasal passages, where Mr. de la Riva was kindly crushing and
tormenting the words, the truth is coming out almost always transformed
into sounds dark, hollow, chaotic, completely unintelligible.

Particularly after eating it was impossible to talk to him.

And this, for no other reason, they said, but because they don Roque
used to instruct pilots a wine friends Rivero, so exquisite, that
nobody would to drink, even at the risk of staying silent.

The paramount chief of the village civil leaving all evenings home
alone, in appearance, actually pleasantly accompanied.

Its huge face shaved wanted to take the blood through the pores, preferably focusing on the huge
back Bourbon your nose. The eyes, with bouquets of blood also, half veiled by not being able to
suffer the great heaviness of the eyelids slowly were spaced across the width of the street expressing
an enviable level of fitness. Serious step, slow, hesitant, accused just as a perfect harmony
between their mental and physical faculties. He lacked Don Roque to achieve happiness rather
than tripping over a sheriff, or a street sweeper, or serene, or chipping, with any employee,
in short, of the municipality. From afar I descry, and suddenly lifted her eyelids, and nostrils of the smell
was opened dam. If this, sniffing the tiger, he spent the other side, or trying to hide Roque called
him a voice of thunder.

- John, Juaan, Juaaaan!

The victim's head went down.

- Have you taken the job to Don Lorenzo?

- Yes, sir.

- Have you told the clerk to leave the file section of the cemetery?

- Yes, sir.

- Have you taken the cards to the headman of San Martín?

- Yes, sir.

- Have you been to tell Manuel to remove the debris that is in front of your house?

In short, I was wondering, until the poor sheriff answered negatively.

Then, the voice of choristers of the mayor was heard across the street, and even in the confines
of the town. His eyes were injected, and his face came to be apoplectic
purple.

Impossible understand what he said, if they were not splashing the garlic with the speech, and
even these the cupped so that only the jack was seen clearly. The rebuke never lasted less
than fifteen or twenty minutes, the time required to leave the vast amount of garlic that had
been accumulated in the body from the night before. Just as there are people morning put their
fingers in the mouth to cause bile Roque inevitably needed this relief to be comfortable. He had
not ever heard another interjection, but instead of this possessed such abundance that was
not enough to put one on each floor, sometimes put two or three.

Shopkeepers came out to the door to listen, but smiling, not surprisingly, as usual of old to
this show.

- Don Roque today pulled Swifts firm - told each other aloud.

- Look if you do John.

Indeed, the sheriff at every turn in the round that gave the mayor, had the thumb the mouth and
made the sign of steep.

Don Roque would rather find a sweeper or chipping in the exercise of their functions. Cautiously
approached him from behind, and he knelt his dedazo in the neck.

--¡... Garlic! rascal so, what is so sweeping that? Do you think ... garlic! I'll pay for let
me half the crap between the stones? ... Garlic! Is this gratitude? ... Garlic! Is it this shame?
... Garlic!

Sometimes himself in the speech enthusiastically grasped the broom and began to give the sweeper
a lesson in his craft. Shopkeepers, the few pedestrians crossing the street and some lady who
was leaning on the balcony with the noise, burst out laughing merrily. The sweeper itself, despite
their plight, could not repress a smile watching this madman with giving the coat rolled up
angry and confused wipe the floor.

- This sweeping! ... ... Garlic! (Broom terrible blow.) This sweeps! ... ... Garlic! (Another hit.)
This sweeps! ... ... Garlic! (Another hit.) This sweeps! ... ... Garlic!

Until exhausted, sweaty and ready to fall to earth with a stroke, gave him a broom and picked up the
baton with tassels.

Thus vented his noble bosom of the copy of garlic that was upon him, undertook again their
way and arrived at a most happy disposition Saloncillo body and spirit.

Gabino Maza was a man of about forty-five-year-old naval officer, retired early because his
maverick nature could not bear to military discipline. Face olive-brown, small eyes and dark circles
live with constant hawking his temper too bilious. High, dry, muscular, his beard and hair that was
black in color in blue, the always broken and violent gestures, voice
indefinable, sometimes serious, other, when angry, which was almost
always began to talk, shrill and sharp as a falsetto so shrill that
broke the ears.

Enjoyed a small income and a very small removal, with which he could live and feed his family with
respect Sarrió a wealthy gentleman. In the capital of the province and it would be impossible.
Eternal struggles, putting in each dispute, it was trivial, a lot of passion and violence really
amazing, always willing, be contrary to everything they said although it was clearer the noonday
gloom of a fierce and unfriendly to judge men, for that point was not made the case that never believed
pure motives of human action by noble and honored to appear, spiteful and vindictive to madness.
This man, however, did not attract the hatred of the neighborhood against another, as might be supposed.
In villages and towns, by the intimate, long and steady people, penetrates into the soul of each
than in large populations. Superficial treatment does, in them, many men sympathetic cold, selfish
and even evil. Courteous manners, gentle words, insinuating smile, immediately provide opinion
'nice and decent person. " In the province worthless this. On the contrary, is wary of excessive
friendliness, and above all, smile sweetish, is looking to every man the folds and recesses
of the soul with the same care and attention to a taxidermist is feeling and putting the scalpel
view all fibers of the body machine. Which are generally hated by some men that stranger seduce
him, while others, hard, violent, aggressive, often fall into grace. The dissimulation, which
is the talent of rude and vulgar natures, not ever forgive province, perhaps to be the predominant
service in all social relations. The geniuses alive, exalted temperament, not scary like the "bulls
clear." There is almost always in them a spirit of justice, which, though exaggerated and corrupted
by passion, not just them unfriendly. Moreover, as the exaltation of violence and constant
cause of suffering, physical and moral discomfort, rightly judged that men of such temperament
are in themselves the penalty of their excesses.

Gabino Maza was not hated and loved too. Those with grievances him, he murmured and prevented
their meeting calling him "jealous" and "bad language."

Those who do not laugh at his exaggerations and he led themselves with pleasure, without professing
great affection either.

Another character was gathered there Feliciano Gómez. Grocery merchant genres retail owner at
the same time three or four and some quechemarines that pataches coasting trade made by the Cantabrian
coast, venturing once in a while the more transport to get to Seville. Of medium height, bare head
of hair in pyramid-shaped pins that reached her nose, almost always hoarse voice. It was fun man,
kind, optimistic.

He was unmarried and living with three sisters over age, who had made real ladies workforce and
economy. The payment as they gave public voice, was to have him dominated and subject as a
child, bitterly rebuke lighter faults, and mortify and boring by all means imaginable. However,
he never was heard a complaint from them.

The Belgian engineer, M. Delaunay, had come to Sarrió years ago, in order to benefit mining
the preserve of a powerful English company. The operation did not work. The company withdrew his
commission and salary. But Delaunay, who had some money and entrepreneurial genius, went on
for six or eight industrial companies. First set up a paper factory then another tip from Paris,
and later tried to form an oyster farm, then factory cheese and ice.
Finally wanted to take a large marsh that was near Sarrió. All these
companies had failed, without anyone knowing why. Delaunay was smart,
illustrated, time-consuming. Each industry knew it was going to exercise
as the most competent teacher; charge devices to England, riding and
running was happily getting very acceptable products. The attributed
its fall to the lack of roads. The last of big corporations, aborted
before birth, it more than any other discredited. In a of his trips
around the village, had been near a small river certain uncultivated
land with little effort could be reduced to cultivation. Took hold
in mind; up the plane. A few months later, when he was forced to close
the ice maker and fire workers, the Marsh remembered and spoke of
them to Don Rosendo Belinchón Don Feliciano Gómez and two more Indians
to assist him in his great undertaking. Replicated them that was necessary
to see them, and concertóse the tour. One morning mounted in two horses
secretly initiated the march to the estuary of Orlean, distant four
leagues Sarrió. When you get near the horses she left and went on
foot of a hill, from which oteaban marshes. What would be the shame
and confusion of seeing the land Delaunay trying to steal the sea,
covered with corn, green and flowering were a blessing God! In fact,
more than six years were under cultivation. His mistake was born seeing
them in December when they were resting. They turned to the town,
and incident occurred in her laughter that must be assumed.

Laid
out ruined. Was obliged to live miserably. But far from going out
in his mind the fury of the business burned in poverty with more momentum.
So not leave a single Sarrió capitalist who does so in order to embark
on one. Sometimes it was a tram to the capital, others a port of refuge
or a wooden piers, other great restaurant. Some Indians, just by the
way, he seduced, paid some thousands of dollars his innocence. The
fact is that Delaunay was a man of talent, scholar, learning very
well with all the advances of science and industry. Despise impossible
without making an injustice.

The Assistant Port Marina, Alvaro Pena,
young man of thirty, dark, big eyes black mustache Victor Manuel,
was characterized by a deep hatred, implacable, the state church and
all who represent him, even if his own brother. Without being amateur
in any way to science or literature, had a fairly large library, composed
entirely of books against religion and its ministers. He was signed
to three or four newspapers known for their anti-clerical views, and
said he had been had been seized a few years to accumulate data for
a book meant to be published under the title of religion within the
reach of all fortunes, which many neighbors knew and some fragments.
He was cheerful, courageous, fond of stories and jokes, which always
played paramount role a priest or nun.

He cared, with serious devotion, for the Cathedral music and sang the services beautifully,
but he would have been able to give more time to his work were he not so continuously worrying
as to whether people were vexed with him or no. His idea of Paradise was a place where he could
chant eternal services and where everybody liked him. He was a good man, but weak, and therefore
driven again and again into insincerity. It was as though there was for ever in front of him
the consciousness of some secret in his past life that must on no account be discovered; but,
poor man, he had no secret at all.

"Well, Precentor, and how are you?" said Ronder, beaming at him over his spectacles.

Ryle started. Ronder had come behind him. He liked the look of Ronder. He always preferred
fat men to thin; they were much less malicious, he thought.

"Oh, thank you, Canon Ronder--very well, thank you. I didn't see you. Quite spring weather.
Are you going my way?"

"I'm off to see Bentinck-Major."

"Oh, yes, Bentinck-Major...."

Ryle's first thought was--"Now is Bentinck-Major likely to have anything to say against me
this afternoon?"

"I'm going up Orange Street too. It's the High School Governors' meeting, you know."

"Oh, yes, of course."

The two men started up the hill together. Ronder surveyed the scene around him with pleasure.
Orange Street always satisfied his aesthetic sense. It was the street of the doctors, the solicitors,
the dentists, the bankers, and the wealthier old maids of Polchester. The grey stone was of
a charming age, the houses with their bow-windows, their pillared porches, their deep-set doors,
their gleaming old-fashioned knockers, spoke eloquently of the day when the great Jane's Elizabeths
and D'Arcys, Mrs. Morrises and Misses Bates found the world in a tea-cup, when passions were
solved by matrimony and ambitions by the possession of a carriage and a fine pair of bays.
But more than this was the way that the gardens and lawns and orchards ran unchecked in and
out, up and down, here breaking into the street, there crowding a church with apple-trees,
seeming to speak, at every step, of leisure and sunny days and lives free of care.

Ronder had never seen anything so pretty; something seemed to tell him that he would never
see anything so pretty again.

Ryle was not a good conversationalist, because he had always before him the fear that some
one might twist what he said into something really unpleasant, but, indeed, he found Ronder
so agreeable that, as he told Mrs. Ryle when he got home, he "never noticed the hill at all."

"I hope you won't think me impertinent," said Ronder, "but I must tell you how charmed I was
with the way that you sang the service on Sunday. You must have been complimented often enough
before, but a stranger always has the right, I think, to say something. I'm a little critical,
too, of that kind of thing, although, of course, an amateur...but--well, it was delightful."

Ryle flushed with pleasure to the very tips of his over-large ears.

"Oh, really, Canon...But indeed I hardly know what to say. You're too good. I do my poor best,
but I can't help feeling that there is danger of one's becoming stale. I've been here a great
many years now and I think some one fresh...."

"Well, often," said Ronder, "that is a danger. I know several cases where a change would be
all for the better, but in your case there wasn't a trace of staleness. I do hope you won't
think me presumptuous in saying this. I couldn't help myself. I must congratulate you, too,
on the choir. How do you find Brockett as an organist?"

"Not quite all one would wish," said Ryle eagerly--and then, as though he remembered that some
one might repeat this to Brockett, he added hurriedly, "Not that he doesn't do his best. He's
an excellent fellow. Every one has their faults. It's only that he's a little too fond of adventures
on his own account, likes to add things on the spur of the moment...a little fantastic sometimes."

"Quite so," said Ronder gravely. "That's rather what I'd thought myself. I noticed it once
or twice last Sunday. But that's a fault on the right side. The boys behave admirably. I never
saw better behaviour."

Kyle was now in his element. He let himself go, explaining this, defending that, apologising
for one thing, hoping for another. Before he knew where he was he found himself at the turning
above the monument that led to the High School.

"Here we part," he said.

"Why, so we do," cried Ronder.

"I do hope," said Ryle nervously, "that you'll come and see us soon. Mrs. Ryle will be delighted...."

"Why, of course I will," said Ronder. "Any day you like. Good-bye. Good- bye," and he went
to Bentinck-Major's.

One look at Bentinck-Major's garden told a great deal about Bentinck- Major. The flower-beds,
the trim over-green lawn, the neat paths, the trees in their fitting places, all spoke not
only of a belief in material things but a desire also to demonstrate that one so believed....

One expected indeed to see the Bentinck-Major arms over the front-door. They were there in
spirit if not in fact.

"Is the Canon in?" Ronder asked of a small and gaping page-boy.

He was in, it appeared. Would he see Canon Ronder? The page-boy disappeared and Ronder was
able to observe three family trees framed in oak, a large china bowl with visiting-cards, and
a huge round-faced clock that, even as he waited there, pompously announced that half-hour.
Presently the Canon, like a shining Ganymede, came flying into the hall.

"My dear Ronder! But this is delightful. A little early for tea, perhaps. Indeed, my wife is,
for the moment, out. What do you say to the library?"

Ronder had nothing to say against the library, and into it they went. A fine room with books
in leather bindings, high windows, an oil painting of the Canon as a smart young curate, a
magnificent writing-table, The Spectator and The Church Times near the fireplace, and two deep
leather arm-chairs. Into these last two the clergymen sank.

Bentinck-Major put his fingers together, crossed his admirable legs, and looked interrogatively
at his visitor.

"I'm lucky to catch you at home," said Ronder. "This isn't quite the time to call, I'm afraid.
But the fact is that I want some advice."

"Quite so," said his host.

"I'm not a very modest man," said Ronder, laughing. "In fact, to tell you the truth, I don't
believe very much in modesty. But there are times when it's just as well to admit one's incompetence.
This is one of them--"

"Why, really, Canon," said Bentinck-Major, wishing to give the poor man encouragement.

"No, but I mean what I say. I don't consider myself a stupid man, but when one comes fresh
into a place like this there are many things that one can't know, and that one must learn from
some one wiser than oneself if one's to do any good."

"Oh, really, Canon," Bentinck-Major repeated. "If there's anything I can do--".

"There is. It isn't so much about the actual details of the work that I want your advice. Hart-Smith
has left things in excellent condition, and I only hope that I shall be able to keep everything
as straight as he has done. What I really want from you is some sort of bird's-eye view as
to the whole situation. The Chapter, for instance. Of course, I've been here for some months
now and have a little idea as to the people in the place, but you've been here so long that
there are many things that you can tell me."

"Now, for instance," said Bentinck-Major, looking very wise and serious. "What kind of things?"

"I don't want you to tell me any secrets," said Ronder. "I only want your opinion, as a man
of the world, as to how things stand--what really wants doing, who, Beside yourself, are the
leading men here and in what directions they work. I needn't say that this conversation is
confidential."

"Oh, of course, of course."

"Now, I don't know if I'm wrong, but it seems from what I've seen during the short time that
I've been here that the general point of view is inclined to be a little too local. I believe
you rather feel that yourself, although I may be prejudiced, coming straight as I have from
London."

"It's odd that you should mention that, Canon," said Bentinck-Major. "You've put your finger
on the weak spot at once. You're only saying what I've been crying aloud for the last ever
so many years. A voice in the wilderness I've been, I'm afraid--a voice in the wilderness,
although perhaps I have managed to do a little something. But there's no doubt that the men
here, excellent though they are, are a little provincial. What else can you expect? They've
been here for years. They have not had, most of them, the advantage of mingling with the great
world. That I should have had a little more of that opportunity than my fellows here is nothing
to my credit, but it does, beyond question, give one a wider view --a wider view. There's our
dear Bishop for instance--a saint, if ever there was one. A saint, Ronder, I assure you. But
there he is, hidden away at Carpledon--out of things, I'm afraid, although of course he does
his best. Then there's Sampson. Well, I hardly need to tell you that he's not quite the man
to make things hum. Not by his own fault I assure you. He does his best, but we are as we're
made...yes. Stopped short of Dona Brigida to throw
him down the stairs one day that has brought him a hundred and twenty reais.

Don Jaime was thus reduced to spend hours sitting watching play and giving players do not appreciated
advice. Used to pay the greedy cup of rum. Once in a time playing checkers with Mr. Lorenzo, as
he flatly refused to follow the game without interest, was that Marin arbitrate should not
be any precious metal. Discoursed expose one of the two cigars that his wife was in the morning.
When he lost, that afternoon was not smoking. Sometimes looking for a rematch, losing two and
three would one by one, giving his opponent in the following days. Then he spent, as their
Friends would say, "the grammar", that is, to ask here and there a cigarette to calm the unbearable
itching to suck. Poor Marin!

Dona Brigida what could not ever do was lie on a regular time. Years of staying up all night
until four or five in the morning, had formed a habit impossible overcome. As holding him was
not going home anyway to bed until daybreak, and spent the evening poking around the rooms,
and as the vice late nights alone the cheapest is known, the witty lady let him retire at the
time wanted. Coffee remained in the Navy with the last customers. After they retired, still
remained while the boys placed the dishes in place and the owner pointed out the latest games.
When he threw the establishment materially was to company to the serene de la Rúa Nueva, very
friend. Chatting with the hours he killed still lacking for the dawn.

Don Lorenzo, Don Agapito, Don Pancho, Don Aquilino, Mr. Germain and Don Justo were Indians,
that is, people whose parents had sent to America for children to earn a living and had back between
fifty and sixty years with a capital ranging from 30-100000 hard. There were over fifty of
them in Sarrio. The hard work and subjection in which they had lived for many years, I did have
an idea of ​​happiness is very different from ours. To us the joy is to enjoy a new pleasure
every day, shaking, traveling, enjoying the body and spirit of the amazing variety of things
that nature offers us. For them was estimated solely on not working, spending day after day of
hard redeemed law imposed by God to Adam after sin. And the truth is that fattened fiercely
this singular enjoyment. Most of them had their capital in the Funds, whose income when it comes
to not cause discomfort. Rising up early in the habit of early rising, and walked all morning
through the streets or at the dock in gangs of six or eight player entry and exit, loading and
unloading of ships. After dinner they went to the mezzanine Navy coffee or Friendship, and
spent three or four hours playing or watching play billiards.

"Come on, ball of bone, go, go to hut! - Leave, leave, Don Pancho,
which is wound .-- Sal girl, leave the manigüita .-- Ah, ah, how nice
ute hits, Don Lorenso! - Do not get mad, don Pancho!

"

The game was always peppered with such phrases that smelled like banana
and coconut.

When the days were long, there veíaseles afternoon by walking near the village also gang or sitting
on the grass at the edge of a fountain. It was time for tropical memories.

"Remember ute, Don Agapito remembers mulatta aqueya ute dog that came to give plasma to the store?
- And how well he sang the guarachas, the sinvergüensa! - a design that ute vese the rubbed,
Don Agapito, the hard rubbed .-- And why not, Don Pancho, if what I would improve the dance
of people with black slipped my Justo compare? - Wow, man, do not say So I Enoha! The dance
that was going to ute. Vese Poquita trabao I saw him with eya dancing down the little girl,
little girl down! "

There was no count on them to subsidize the orchestra, or theater, or other public recreation.
Young indigenous people if they wanted to have fun need to appeal to the pocket of his parents. And
knew it was useless to seek the help of American gold. This angered them. On the back, and even
from the front, called them rusty, villagers, donkeys laden with money. But the Indians have
tough skin and despised such outbursts. The hatred they had declared (Who was not?) Was Gabino
Maza .--«¿ What are they pulled all those fifty vague on the street, opening his mouth and stretching
like dogs? If earmarked even your money to some useful industry to
the people!

"

When Don Melchor de las Cuevas and his nephew entered the Saloncillo, who alone remained standing in
the middle of the circle was the same Gabino gesturing Maza. I could not stay two minutes
sitting. The continued glorification of his body, the vehemence with which he tried to persuade
his audience, forcing him to take up the seat immediately, jumping into the middle of the room
and screaming and slapping until he concluded his breath and strength. There was talk of the company
the theater had announced his departure to have experienced losses
in the first installment thirty functions.

Maza was to convince them that there had been no such losses, it was all a hoax.

- Not true, not true! Anyone who says they have lost a penny lying!

... (Down voice and shaking hands with Gonzalo .)--¿ How are you, Gonzalo? I know you've arrived
yesterday.

Come Good: I'm glad ... I repeat that lie! Do not dare to say it to me?

- Six thousand pieces have been lost in the thirty functions, according
to data presented me Baritone - Don Mateo said.

Maza grinds his teeth. The outrage is not allowed to speak. Finally breaks.

- And you ignore that drunk, Mr. Mateo? ... Go, go (with affected contempt), to force to deal
with comedians you've forgotten the office, as the blacksmith of yore.

- Hey you, smarty, I have not said what he believed.

All I'm saying is that this results from the data that I presented the baritone.

Maza da full circle, is again placed in the middle of the room, ripped
the hat from his head with both hands, and waving frantically yells:

-
But sir!

But, sir! Seems not only far we have fallen from a nest!

... Want you tell me what they have done twenty thousand-odd real
imported fertilizer, and almost likewise to be entered at the box
office?

- Salaries are grown - said the assistant port.

- Do not
be stupid, by the Blessed Virgin, Alvaro!

Not an ass!

... I'll tell you right away salaries (counting on fingers).

The tenor, six dollars, the soprano, six are twelve bass, four are sixteen, the contralto, three
are nineteen, the baritone, four ...

- Baritone, five - said Peña.

- Baritone, four - insisted furious Maza.

- I know that there are five.

- Baritone, four - roared back Maza.

Alvaro Peña stands exalted in turn, burning with noble desire to bring the conviction his opponent,
and begins a furious race, huge, lasting about an hour taking part in all or almost all members
of that illustrious gathering of notables. Nothing like the famous brawls that among the Greeks
before the walls went Ilion. The same heat and anger. The same primitive simplicity in the arguments.
The same naive and barbaric violence in dictation.

"There will be more ass man! - Hush, hush, head of cork! - Ox spoke, and said moo! - Te I say you're
missing the truth, and if you want clearer, I say you lie .-- Jesus Gans! - Looks you a bad
woman. "

Were very frequent, almost daily, such altercations in the Club. Like all those who took part
had a direct, wholly original to appreciate the issues, like, if not equal to the heroes of Homer,
the argument set to start the dispute, remained unchanged until the end. Man who had spent
an hour repeating incessantly: "There is no right to meddle in anyone's
private life!" or, "That will happen in Germany, but as we are in
Spain !»... Some were still shorter and always yelling you left a
hole :--«¡ wacky bagpipe!

Do you know? Gaita freaks! "Until he fell lifeless on the couch.

But what they lost in the arguments ganábanlo range in intensity. Were increasingly expressed
more energy and forceful, and more unrhythmicity voices. Thus, it was rare day not to come out
of there any drone, generally, were Alvaro Peña and Don Feliciano, the weaker larynx, not
the most hawkers. That the City had sent prune Watering trees walk: dispute at the Club. The
clerk of the house González Children had escaped with fourteen thousand reais: dispute. The
parish priest refused to give a certificate of good conduct the pilot Velasco Alvaro Pena had
vomited blood a result of this dispute.

No despondency was never after them, nor had they had caused memory a personal matter. How could
there be if everyone had agreed tacitly accept without anger the funny epithets that have been mentioned?
The local character issues, it was perfect. The policy had very few growers Sarrio. Only when
newspapers much any news event package, it momentarily worried its inhabitants. It was nearly twenty
years that the district representation in Congress was entrusted
to the wealthy banker Rojas Salcedo, who only once in his life Sarrió
been taking donkey milk.

No one thought of disputing the election. Generally was made to meet the presidents and secretaries of
the schools, and pointing in the minutes the number of votes they wanted. The reason for this was
that it had always been Sarrió a market town where everyone could make a living without recourse
to employment State. Most young people, after, after two or three years in a college England
and Belgium, were used on the desktops of their parents and their successors were in them.
Others, less still any military or civilian career of fixed salary, and only came from time
to time to spend some time with his family.

Sarrió, it must be confessed at once, was a sleeping population for all major events of spirit to
regenerate all the struggles of contemporary society. Anyone studying high policy issues. The
battles that the various factions waged other parties to ensure victory and power is not in any
way passionate tempers.

In a word, in Sarrió the year of grace 1860 there was public life. It ate, slept, worked,
danced, they played, the contribution was paid, but all in a absolutely private.

When they tired to contest the of the Club and had to overcome the digestion, Don Mateo I said,
licking his taste, he did not care about the progress of the company. Within a few days preparing
a surprise to Sarrio. After much work was achieved to disgorge. Was in talks with the famous
Marabini, phrenologist, magician. Perhaps Tuesday ... yes, on Tuesday or Wednesday might admire their
skills in the theater. Brought tables also solvents and domesticated wolf.

Gonzalo had gone to the pool room and play the plated saw half a dozen Indians, which to give
Tacaza, sounded like a peal of bells all gold charms hanging from
his huge watch-chains.

These chains and these pendants were the attraction more powerful, the supreme temptation presenting
their children for artisans Sarrió deciding to go to Cuba .--«¡ Fool, who you see coming in
a few years with cloth coat Fine, great blouse ironed and lots of patent leather boot chain
Morelos, like Don Pancho! "A stake latter resisted almost any boy .--«¿ That gives me seven times
around the neck, father? - Yes, man, yes, and a portion of gold pens and lockets hanging. "And
off he went from poor guys head in the Bella-Paula, the Carmen, in the town of Sarrió or other
barcucho Sailing anyone to perish of hunger or black vomit, blacker still fascinated by the
brightness of those kitschy jewelry representing the eyes of the terrible Loreley.

The attitude of some Indians playing as people who are not seasoned to repress their gestures
and composing them, were strange and funny, served with joy to the young men whose antipathy to
the Americans always expressed by mockery.

Who, like Don Benito, was high heels on the ground as the ball ran, who, like Don Lorenzo,
bent to one side or the other, twisting and writhing as if their movements depended on the
ball be inclined to one place or another, who, at last, as Don Pancho, who was small and fat,
almost square, jumped up from the couch after having pushed the ball, the better to see the
damage had been done in the sticks. Occasionally you could hear the cry of impatience one of
them addressing the boy :--«¡ Point, boy, do not be distracted! "

Next came and sat Gonzalo Feliciano Gomez, who started him dizzy with his talk kind and insubstantial,
giving each moment loving pat on the thigh as he custom.

- When is the big day, Gonzalín? Will it soon, eh? Well, that I have and desire to see thy
arm lady going to church a dozen! ... Well, my boy, well, you'll be happy. Home the girls (as
she called her older sisters always) will not let me live from yesterday: "When Gonzalín married?
do not hesitate to ask. "As you have seen the birth of the poor! ... No nothing like the marriage
to live happy and peaceful. You tell me: and if so, why not married, Don Feliciano? Listen, my boy,
why I had to marry if I live happy single? What do you need me? I have at home the girls that I care
for what you want mouth, which I love ... (Poor man, quite another thing to be said in the town.)
And other things ... God never fails, eh, my boy? ... Also, while you're young you suffer
much. Everything becomes desire, and rage ... A fire in here that leaves you calm ... But
when the years come and stops the heat lover and is a cool as a cucumber, then, big, my boy!
... Look, if I might say now, "Feliciano," want to become at twenty? "Ca! another dog with that
bone. The great age of man, fifty years. Do not hesitate, Gonzalín. Now is when you know what
it is to eat and sleep in peace.

Is there any guy who is worth a fresh source of freshly fried sardines? ... And a lobster
with cider served by the espichón? Can not you make your mouth water, son of soul? ... You
now get married and kisses and "my life" for here "my soul" over there, right? ... Well, well,
that neglects everything will come. This is good, but this is better ... The girl is from a
good family ... Don Rosendo is rich ... Going well, you well, my boy ... But hey, why do not you
marry with small, Venturita, which is prettier? I'm not saying that the former is ugly, but
not no doubt that the latter is more beautiful, a rosebud. What eyes so naughty! What hair! What
teeth! What panache! In short, if you're committed to not say anything else ... But what is as beautiful!
... And the family, the same ...

These words made a strange impression on Gonzalo. The thought thus expressed was formula brutal,
but accurate and precise in its vague guess, a certain uneasiness
that had been the night before.

Indeed, what beautiful eyes, so naive and malicious at the same time! What alabaster skin! What
lips, what teeth, what golden skein hair! Cecilia, the poor, was even thinner than when he was
gone and most awkward. How he liked that girl? Gonzalo simply confessed to like ... what really
like is called ... Venturita as now, for example, never liked it. So why ... Who knows what
these questions! He was a child, did not talk to ladies. The kindness of the former was impressed
... After a certain vanity of having a girlfriend ... Then distance that enlarges and improves
things ... In short, everything had combined to link you that girl ... But if he had ever seen a
Venturita! ... It was better not to think about it. The matter was too advanced to turn back.

Contrary
to his custom, he remained a good fifteen minutes looking pensive ivory balls rolling without
seeing them.

Don Feliciano was gone. At last his sanguine temperament overcame strong those who wanted to disturb
him insane nervousness. Alzose seat. Traits its appearance, made temporarily widened and spread,
for her smile calm that characterized. At the same time shrugged with supreme disdain. With gesture seemed
to say: - "I marry the ugliest of girls Belinchón ... Well, what Why? Anyway, whether with one
or the other, but not marry me no! I shall be happy. I do not need that happiness comes from outside
me. I carry within me, in this mood of an angel God gave me, money that my parents left me in
this health inconceivable, in this bull's strength ... "

When he came back into the Saloncillo, greatly disturbed their daily
gatherings found with the news that Severino had just brought the
hardware store you do not know :--«¿ what's up, gentlemen?

"- Everyone gets up and surround him. The dealer speaks visibly moved .-- This night they
robbed and killed Don Laureano .-- What don Laureano, the fifth? - Yes, the the Watermill ...
They say the two and a half, more or less, nine masked men entered at home, the servant ground
with sticks, tied to the lady and the maid and Don Laureano cut his throat ... Before you think
he did suffer a lot to force him to drop the money ... The good man
had no more than twelve thousand pieces, and they determined he had
hidden cat ... They tied around here, save is the part, and strip
strip to make it sing ...

A shiver of horror shook the Sarrió remarkable.

Pale as if they stayed they had been rigged and all that appalling torment. The fifth of the Watermill
was a league of the town, in the solitude of a pine forest, but nobody took that into account. Could
be seen and attacked in their homes in the New or Caborana Rua and killed most cruel. Especially those
jerks! Holy Christ, what an atrocity!

After the first moments of surprise, the comments began quietly. Thieves would not be very far
away. However, remember that not Sarrió or around there such a thing ever happened. Marin said
he did day and saw some suspicious men night. This news came in a healthy surrounding terror which
was not revealed. All proposed not to leave home at night, without communicating, however,
so successful resolution.

The mayor said that in his opinion, the thieves must have come from Castilla Castilla .-- What?
- Yes, sir, Castilla ... Have heard my father (God rest his soul) that occurred five years seventeen
men on horseback armed Sariego, surrounded the people and robbed Jose Maria Herrero sixty thousand
hard he had hidden under one of the brick home.

At any other time, the circles have noted that this would have happened Sariego event in year
five, did not necessarily mean the same thing happen in Windmills year sixty. But now no one dared
to contradict the risky proposition. And they went quietly cementing the event, and seemed
all agree on the views most extravagant and contradictory.

But as he had not ever the case that Gabino Maza nod for more than ten minutes which was spoken
in his presence, took pretext a very simple indication, made by Mr.
Feliciano Gómez, with perfect naturalness and modesty that characterized
the speeches of this distinguished merchant, to fall upon him a so
violently as unjustified.

- I wonder you do not drop some kick!

What do you want to register houses neighbors?

I figure that you'll find there's money very apiladito Don Laureano.

-
If is not the money, find some evidence ...

- What, knucklehead,
what?

Armed himself well-known dispute. It screamed, was moved beyond words.

Finally, no one could understand, as usual.

The voices were heard throughout the square well the Navy, but passers
were used, and not stopped to listen.

V

THIEVES!

And since then Sarrió notable not set foot on the street at night,
as discreetly it had proposed.

The gathering of the Club last minute, the store Graells, Morana of the same, were abandoned.
The four or six blacksmiths set in the villa could not give or comply with the numerous requests
for locks, bars of iron and master keys that made them all homes. The thieves Windmills were
not incurred. All predicted, more or less foundation, who were prowling population to fall on
her to sack a deadline.

However, as the man gets used to everything,
even to the disease by up to conferences Ateneo, Sarrió neighbors,
after a few days became accustomed to danger. Began to leave their
homes, it was quite dark, but with proper precautions. The first Marin
was to venture. Being frustrated all the efforts made to Dona Brigida
an hour is sound asleep, threw home without pity. You must have some one
to look after you. You don't know what London's like."

He caught her in his arms and kissed her passionately, and she seemed to him a new woman altogether,
created by her threat that she would go away alone.

She passively let him kiss her, then with a little turn in his arms and a little sigh she very
gently kissed him of her own will.

"I believe I could care for 'ee," she said softly. "And I want to care for some one terrible bad."

They were nearer in spirit than they had ever been before; an emotion of simple human companionship
had crept into the unsettled disturbance and quieted it and deepened it. She wore in his eyes
a new aspect, something wise and reasonable and comfortable. She would never be quite so mysterious
to him again, but her hold on him now was firmer. He was suddenly sorry for her as well as
for himself.

For the first time he left her that night with a sense that comradeship might grow between them.

But as he went back up the hill he was terribly depressed and humiliated. He hated and despised
himself for longing after something that he did not really want. He had always, he fancied,
done that, as though there would never be time enough in life for all the things that he would
wish to test and to reject.

When he went to bed that night he was in rebellion with all the world, but before he fell asleep
Annie Hogg seemed to come to him, a gentler, kinder spirit, and to say to him, "It'll be all
right.... I'll look after 'ee.... I'll look after 'ee," and he seemed to sink to sleep in her arms.

Next morning Falk and Joan had breakfast alone with their father, a headache having laid Mrs.
Brandon low. Falk was often late for breakfast, but to-day had woken very early, had got up
and gone out and walked through the grey mist, turning his own particular trouble over and
over in his mind. To-day Annie had faded back from him again; that tenderness that he had felt
for her last night seemed to have vanished, and he was aware only of a savage longing to shake
himself free of his burden. He had visions this morning of going up to London and looking for
work....

Joan saw that to-day was a "Chapter morning" day. She always knew by her father's appearance
when there was to be a Chapter Meeting. He had then an extra gloss, an added splendour, and
also an added importance. He really was the smartest old thing, she thought, looking at him
this morning with affectionate pride. He looked as though he spent his time in springing in
and out of cold baths.

The importance was there too. He had the Glebshire Morning News propped up in front of him,
and every now and then he would poke his fine head up over it and look at his children and
the breakfast-table and give them a little of the world's news. In former days it had been
only at the risk of their little lives that they had spoken to one another. Now, although restrictions
had broken down, they would always hear, if their voices were loud:

"Come, children...come, come. Mayn't your father read the newspaper in quiet? Plenty of time
to chatter during the rest of the day." 

Don Rosendo took it with ardor and seriousness it deserved. Every day spent a few hours in
the morning and one in the afternoon, to lie to the fund, which was all that allowed to the teacher
in the first two months. The most remarkable result of this exercise was that after some time
did not know if his legs were really theirs or other biped sound like him. So sharp and vivid
that the laces were attacked, that even when sleeping was believed to be jumping into the background.
Awoke with a start in terrible pain joint. After that M. Lemaire was so cruel! Never was satisfied
the work of the good knight :--«¡ Tips Plus! Plus! Ancor Sapristi plus! " And the poor creature
Rosendo opened, opened in a barbaric, unthinkable, feeling the nice feeling if you sawed the
caul. Over so noble exercise, Mr Belinchón needed to be looked taken to the walls to move from
one place to another, forming eighty degree angle with the floor. From there until the end of his
days, the glorious founder of Lighthouse Sarrió always walked more or less spread one's legs.

But
this torment, but it had nothing to envy to those of the martyrs of Japan, padecíalo, if not
with pleasure, with manly courage.

Always thought that civilized side enormous sacrifices and civilize a country. After two months
started ticking eternal florets. But without abandoning the torment of the legs. Rudesindo Don Alvaro
Peña, Sinforoso, Pablito, Folgueras the printer and some others, took lessons at the same time.
In the room, impressions subjugated war so the shooters, who kept a solemn silence. Nothing could
be heard that gravelly voice of M. Lemaire repeated endlessly and a distracted manner: - En garde vivement
- Contre of Ripostez .-- quarte ... Oh well! - En garde contre Sixt .-- vivement. Ripostez ...
Oh well! - Parez seconde Rispostez .-- Ah well! Don Rosendo was believed moved to Paris and saw Don Rudesindo,
Folgueras and Sinforoso to Grisier, Anatole de la Forge and the Baron de Basancourt. El Faro no was
El Faro, but Le Gaulois and Le Journal des Débats.

After five months, was kept pretty well guarded, kept the jabs, attacking
furiously and jumped back with mastery.

He thought if necessary to make a scandal. Was People need to be convinced that the two thousand
francs allocated to teacher were not entirely lost .. Also must go by introducing the taste
for these refinements of the big cities. But with whom to have affair in Sarrió? Although
good he spent his desire to challenge any of the Cabin, I realized that the only one capable
of fighting was Gabino Maza. To him had a migajita of respect, especially since he had heard from
the teacher in duels was necessary to be careful with violent men but knew no fencing. After
long and deep meditation imagined that the best was to provoke a set of Lancia with drawing a journalist
controversy that came Faro holding to the Future, on a branch road. And as I thought it did. The first
issue was so aggressive, so insolent to the newspaper of the capital, this one, amazed and
indignant, said that certain sentences of Faro but not merited contempt. In consequence, Don Rosendo
commissioned his friends and Sinforoso Alvaro Peña Suárez 'for they were to understand "the
director of the Future. They moved to Lancia and returned the same day. Mr. Belinchón to see
them come and ardently wished that the matter be have managed without the need for mourning, though
it was he who provoked it. New evidence of singular greatness of soul and the exquisite sensitivity
that was gifted. Unfortunately Future director had held firm. The witnesses agreed to a saber
duel which was performed the next day, on a possession in the vicinity of Lancia.

Our hero, unknowingly, she felt her legs were weak, not fear, that this no even dare to imagine, but
for the thrill of being so close to being an object of curiosity and public expectation, not
only in the province, but in all Spain.

When they walked towards home, Peña said with rough frankness:

- The sponsors of Villar wanted to cut off the tips of their swords, but I opposed. "No, no, I
said, know all about Don Rosendo, and is one who hates childish things.

Can not play with him. When you get into a set of these, they need to go all serious. I Cortasa
sure if the tips have a quarrel with him ... "Have not I played While your desire?

- Perfectly. Thank you very much, Alvaro - Mr Belinchón said holding out a hand Pena found
too cold.

He added in a faint voice: - Although a little limasen the tips, you know? would have no problem
in accepting ... The issue, after all, no specifically requires it to death.

- I dared not even to accept that.

Not knowing the opinion of you, I was afraid that dislikes ...

- Nothing, nothing, because for me there is no objection to the limen.

-
Now you can not be.

Conditions are agreed. Unless they intend again, the tips will be sharp. A lot because you
should throw the foil ...

- Precisely for this reason.

I would not take advantage on my opponent.

Peña winked maliciously.

- Do not be so scrupulous, Don Rosendo. Yes you can string fiiit! like a bird, not quit.

These last words were accompanied by the assistant with an expressive
gesture, crossing the air finger tip, the same as if he were entering
a human body.

Don Rosendo made a gesture of disgust, and kept long silence.

After all, said silently:

- What I feel is that these damn shoelaces not allow me to throw myself thoroughly.

- Ca, man, ca! Miss you care. The duration of the haul, you will not feel any pain in the legs.
Has not happened but feel the pain of a toothache at the time of call at the door of the dentist
to remove?

This simile was immediately comforting aide a fit of laughter, which lasted well time. Belinchón
remained serious and somber, as within the ambit of the heroes on the eve of battle.

The news spread like an electric spark from the public. The astonishment of the neighbors was
indescribable. None of them fit into a person's head, into and in years, married with children,
was to be a saber with the other as a matter of a branch road.

However, the match Belinchón leaded that astonished the decision
and the value of your boss.

This, at night, had a frightful nightmare. He dreamed that the sword of the Future director
would open up the middle. One half will go to the winner as a trophy.

A Sarrió only returned the other half. Their own I woke up screaming. Dona Paula, who slept beside
her, so terrified, which was necessary to go to antispasmodic. Belinchón, with the heroic strength
of the temperaments, said nothing to her consort. What he did was take a drink of antispasmodic.

Next
day he went by car to Lancia, accompanied by Peña, Sinforoso, Don
Rufo and two swords of fire.

On leaving the town on the road, over a hundred people got fired. Given this demonstration of affection,
Don Rosendo felt touched.

- Good luck - Put you telegram, huh? - Do not say that Sarrió Lancia is below.

Don Rosendo was shaking with emotion the hands of his supporters. All were being offered to accompany
him, and he promised revenge for the case of perishing in the struggle.

At last they came to the fifth designated, and were seen with the
enemy.

Witnesses talked, measured swords, and put in the hands of the contestants.

The appearance of these had the right color to such formalities, that
is, a green bottle, which took intervals orange overtones.

Once on duty, and given voice to attack, were both beginning to be tempted sabers methodically first
on one side after another, with a mournful sound that put terror.

After all, Villar rushed to lift the head to hurt his opponent ... But ca! Rosendo gave so
prodigious leap backwards, as witnesses looked at each other with wonder. Villar, also stunned,
waited to come near his opponent again. Returned to the gloomy tic tac. Don Rosendo, after
another moment, he raised his sword ... Villar, instantly took another truly supernatural leap
that far surpassed the first. They believed that leaving the fifth. Witnesses watched with
even greater astonishment.

The fight lasted, in this way, more than half an hour. In it, Don Rosendo cried once:

- Stop!

- What? - Asked witnesses approaching.

- That seems to me that the sword of the Lord has lost the tip.

Saber was recognized Villar, and saw that it was not true. This trait of chivalry more typical
of the Middle Ages to our times, rose to Don Rosendo, the public perception when it became known,
at the height of the legendary heroes, Roland, Bayardo and Bernardo
del Carpio.

The fighting ended when the saber Villar, without any intention, ran into the front Belinchón. It was
just a scratch, but the sponsors called off the set. Don Rufo placed a large piece of taffeta English
on the wound. The wounded man shook hands nobly its opposite. Sent a telegram to Lancia, so they
put a Sarrió. Lunched all happily together, and during lunch, champions contacted major expansion
the blows that were intended, and that lack of opportunity had not been executed.

- Man, if you get no break on time, delivery will head in two.

Feint of a two in the face, thrust to the chest and slash at his
head - said Don Rosendo, swallowing a superb piece of hake.

- Well,
you would not have been better if I make a combination which had meditated
- answers Villar .-- Amago pin belt!

Falsely attacked the head pin! You answered my arm pin!

I make a two pin face! You answer a pin head!

I stop and answer the arm Pin! ...

Here the director of the Future of Lancia, which as he described his
famous hit hard Gobble kept while tracing circles in the air with
his fork, he choked a thorn, suddenly getting redder than a cherry.

We had to get al fresco.

Don Rosendo was who gave the punches well-known in the back to throw
the spine.

Show beautiful example of nobility that can not ever forget!

After lunch, Don Rosendo and his companions got into the carriage
and restored to Sarria.

More than half the population, and prevented by the telegram was waiting outside. A cry of joy
escaped from every breast when approaching the carriage. Don Rosendo, moved, pulled the head
out the window and took off his hat bearing the English piece of taffeta. In his view, the audience
gave a cheer! formidable. The vehicle was escorted by the crowd. The founder of the Lighthouse,
cheered when he entered the house, was compelled after a peek at balcony, which was new and warmly cheered.
At night, his friends presented him with a serenade.

XII

Had fun PABLITO

- Should put a bearded soft - Pablito said.

- Or a steak - Pisces replied gravely.

They were silent. Pablito said:

- Damn horse! I've seen in my life sweeter mouth.

- A silk - his friend replied in a tone of unwavering conviction.

Another moment of silence.

- Do you think we should give more riding?

- The riding school is not superfluous to any animal - Pisces grunted with the same conviction.

- Should work on the trot.

- It is a lot.

While thus conversing, the inseparable fair dirigíanse slowly from the depot Don Rosendo, situated
in one end of town, on the other end of it, going through the middle.

It was ten o'clock at night, the mild temperature of spring. The few passers that the streets
were, dirigíanse briskly toward his home. Remained only stores open gatherings where did that
of Graells, that of the Morana, and as it tobacconist. The cabin had plenty of light and great
animation.

Pablito, in whom the bitterness germinated his father, he told his friend to pass by the hated gathering:

-
Pisces, throw a stone at the door, and break them glasses.

Pisces always terrible, grabbed a pebble on the street, waited for his friend bent the corner, and
bam! fit it into the cabin, making the glass powder. Then he gave running. For those who know
him do not come out in pursuit, he fell on hands, running on all fours with amazing skill.

In the cafe of the Navy had also some people.

Entered it and drank in silence paths glasses of chartreuse, but why the brain would stop working
actively. On rising Pablito said:

- What better hook with Romero.

- That's what I was thinking - uttered with fire Pisces.

After they had left, he asked, not with words but with a horrible grimace, to where they went.

-
Beyond.

- Well, then walk past the house gather rattan.

They passed the main streets, but not before Pisces was arrested at
his home an instant, to comply with what he had to express.

Very soon reached the extremities of the village, inhabited, as a
rule, the artisans.

They stopped on a certain street, as lonely as dirty, compared to
a house in poor appearance with rough wooden corridor.

Pablito looked around as a precaution, and let out a soft whistle
prolonged expertise that characterized him in this branch of human
knowledge.

Then he said, looking with concern the lamp that burned about fifty feet away:

- If we could put that lantern!

The terrible Pisces said the next breath, climbed the wall corner
and with his staff turned it off right away, breaking, of course,
the tube.

A lump of a woman appeared in the corridor.

Pablito took a leap into bars.

Then by mounting them and climbed on the railing, was introduced
quietly in it.

Pisces began to stand guard around the corner, armed with his formidable
club.

Who was the woman who at the time got the favor of the Sultan of Sarrió?

The blonde Nieves, a voice will answer those successfully followed
the course of this true story.

Although offended the insight of our readers, the truth compels us to declare that lady runner Nieves
was not the blonde, but blonde Valentina.

How? "That surly seamstress as the enemy of the gentlemen and that she had a boyfriend named Cosme?

The
same in body and soul, with her golden curls on his forehead and
his eyebrows saladísimo nose a little rolled up.

Pablito was a man to make these and other major miracles. While was or seemed to follow his
affair with snow, "he was putting the dots" to Valentina.

But it resisted more than that. The first kiss he stole on his neck while drinking water in
cooking, sewing Arriscado "I made a scene."

Turned red as a cherry, expressive eyes sparkled with anger, and shouted:

- Watch out, I do not suffer these things! ... You go to them with which it can withstand.

This
was no doubt Nieves. Pablito more carefully worked on, but not less daring. Wherever requebrábala
found his way, he joked, was suffering with patience their "crow's
feet."

Valentina because it was the kind of artisan Sarrió, in whom the lack education is a gift
to add to the many who have.

Ventura's team concluded, and having no chance to see it, Pablito
advantage School dances to follow celebrating.

But that did not indulged Nieves.

The gallant young man guessed that the self-excited by competition, would do more in their favor
that they were personal benefits that gifted. This insight was innate in him. He had made clear
since he the first woman in love. Which is one more argument for those who believe in the preexistence
the human being.

For only having seduced many seamstresses in previous lives, could we youth have a very exact
notion of the proper procedure for this purpose.

At last he had surrendered. Began to leave her boyfriend. He concluded by giving evening appointments
as this the gallant Pablito.

- Do you sleep your father? "- Was the first question it made as soon as you saw in the hallway.

-
What do you care? - Said the seamstress resolved.

- Is that if you do not sleep ... you see ... Caspita, the thing is serious!

- Shut up, coward, shame you to give you! I will make noise for the pleasure of seeing you run.

Pablito
his arms and gave him a reasonable amount of kisses. The girl smiled happy. But suddenly his
brow furrowed, his face expressed great severity.

- Quito, Quito! - Said turned .-- I have to ask you a question. Where have you been this tomorrow?

-
"This morning?

... In many parts.

At home in the Saloncillo, in the garage ... on top Pawn ...

- Have not you been on the streets of San Florencio?

- Yes, I've
been there twice or thrice.

- And who have you found?

- Girl, what
do I know?

... A lot of people.

- Have not found Nieves? - Asked the gentle
seamstress repressed anger.

- Yes, I have found - he said with emphasis
indifferent.

- Do not you ever stop to it?

- No, I have just said
goodbye.

- Liar!

Hypocrite! Whistling guy! - Valentina angrily exclaimed .-- Take,
for fox!

(Snuggling a terrible pinch on the arm). "So you've just said goodbye and I've been more an
hour with her? Here, tricky! Take it!

And I downloaded about a hail of pinching arms.

Good Paul was writhing in pain, but do not shout, because I respect
the father's dream of fierce girl.

- By God, Valentina, you're wrong
... It was not only a moment to ask whether embroidery had finished
my scarves ...

- Not bad moment!

One hour by the clock planted with it, laughing like crazy! ... I are taking forward of drowning
in my hands, fox! Fox! But fox!

The angry girl, increasingly possessed by anger, threw his hands around
the neck of her lover, and was about to strangle him.

Was a pity to see so handsome and gentle young man with his tongue
out and eyes full terror.

Valentina was indeed sorry for him and left him, but he still twisted
coat of arms a few times.

- I do not deceiving me, you know?

I do not deceiving me! If I know that you've been with her excuses to come here anymore.

- Well, I promise not to tell you more, but do not go ignoring the first story to bring you.

- Will you do the word? - Cruel seamstress asked looking at him angrily.

- Do not worry.

- Count on me if he does. Rise!

This gentle and tender, was the philandering of Sarrió Valentina.
He, when he realized Pisces such dealings or some other friend, smiling
as man of the world stated that these irascible and arrogant women
are the most deliciously provide men, particularly those who like
him were already a bit worn. 

After they made peace, or rather, after
Valentina gave peace, there a whisper that lasted not know how. After
not heard anything, and to be easy nor you could see much. The corridor
was as though there was nobody in it. If it was not because it is
ugly stain the honor of a girl, we could suspect that the couple infatuation
had gone into the interior of the house.

Pisces, meanwhile, was the
sentinel walking along the street. And the case is not was he alone
who did. A man was stationed, since they had arrived in a doorway
where the shadows thickened. Stationary and protected by the dark,
not have heard of Pisces. Taking advantage of a moment he walked back
to the house the man came out of hiding and crept to her. He looked
down the corridor and hesitated a few seconds. This was what he lost.
When given the jump to fuck bars, the terrible Pisces had returned
and saw him. Two hops are planted below the corridor before the intruder
could ride on the rail, and with his famous cane, he downloaded clubbed
on the back so that the poor man dropped his hands and fell to the
ground. Wanted to repeat the fierce centaur, but the man stood up
and gave agility run so prodigious that the second I got clubbed to
the ground, and as for the third or even tried.

- Bad lightning!
- Roared Pisces.

This must have come roaring in the ears of his happy
friend, for a few seconds after riding over the railing and got out
nicely on the street.

- What? - Asked, approaching his Orestes.

-
A man.

- Where? - The seductive again asked eagerly, turning twice
around.

- I ran away. I caught him at the time of the runner up,
and threw the floor of a club ... Then he ran ... Bad lightning! Neither
Romero reached it at full speed.

- That Man - Pablito uttered silently
- it must be a boyfriend who had Valentina for some time ... What
would you do?

- Well if it was the boyfriend, unless it was to give
a stab, I do not know what was up.

Pablito his arm over his shoulder
at his friend, not to hold, although the hamstrings is a little bent,
but to say in a muffled voice:

- Do you think that?

- A ... or two,
or three ...

The beautiful young man was silent. After a moment he
asked:

- You know him?

- I do not, do you?

- I have not ever seen:
I just called Cosme, and is a barber.

Alejáronse in silence and quiet
street reached Belinchón house. There, goodbye, Pablito told his friend:

-
If I go back there (which I doubt), do me the favor of not losing
sight of the corridor, right?

- A dog place - only answered the indomitable
Pisces.

The next day was Sunday and was celebrated in the customary
dance schools all week. They danced in the afternoon, from three to
seven. The room was spacious, had built few years to school children.
These banks were piled on the platform for the teacher. The walls
were plastered with posters. The worshipers of Terpsichore, while
habanera dance languid, they were distracted by reading a portion
of invaluable tips are intended to demonstrate that virtue and work
are the true treasures child: The child study will receive the reward
of his application.

She looked up and saw a green cloud, faintly green like early spring leafage, curl from the
tower smoke-wise; and there, lifting his hat, pausing at her side, was Johnny St. Leath.

She would have hurried on; she was not happy. Things were not right at home. Something wrong
with father, with mother, with Falk. Something wrong, too, with herself. She had heard in the
town the talk about this girl who was coming to the Castle for the Jubilee time, coming to
marry Johnny. Coming to marry him because she was rich and handsome. Lovely. Lady St. Leath
was determined....

So she would hurry on, murmuring "Good evening." But he stopped her. His face was flushed.
Andrew heaved eagerly, hungrily, at his side.

"Miss Brandon. Just a moment. I want to speak to you. Lovely evening, isn't it?...You cut me
the other day. Yes, you did. In Orange Street."

"Why?"

She tried to speak coldly.

"We're friends. You know we are. Only in this beastly town no one can be free.... I only want
to tell you if I go away--suddenly--I'm coming back. Mind that. You're not to believe anything
they say--anything that any one says. I'm coming back. Remember that. We're friends. You must
trust me. Do you hear?"

And he was gone, striding off towards the Cathedral, Andrew panting at his heels.

The light was gone too--going, going, gone.

She stayed for a moment. As she reached her door the wind rose, sifting through the grass,
rising to her chin.

IV

The two figures met, unconsciously, without spoken arrangement, pushed towards one another
by destiny, as they had been meeting now continuously during the last weeks.

Almost always at this hour; almost always at this place. On the sandy path in the green hollow
below the Cathedral, above the stream, the hollow under the opposite hill, the hill where the
field was, the field where they had the Fair.

Down into this green depth the sunset could not strike, and the chimes, telling over so slowly
and so sweetly the three-quarters, filtered down like a memory, a reiteration of an old promise,
a melody almost forgotten. But above her head the woman, looking up, could see the rose change
to orange and could watch the cloud, like a pool of green water, extend and rest, lying like
a sheet of glass behind which the orange gleamed.

They met always thus, she coming from the town as though turning upwards through the tangled
path to her home in the Precincts, he sauntering slowly, his hands behind his back, as though
he had been wandering there to think out some problem....

Sometimes he did not come, sometimes she could not. They never stayed more than ten minutes
there together. No one from month to month at that hour crossed that desolate path.

To-day he began impetuously. "If you hadn't come to-night, I think I would have gone to find
you. I had to see you. No, I had nothing to say. Only to see you. But I am so lonely in that
house. I always knew I was lonely-- never more than when I was married--but now.... If I hadn't
these ten minutes most days I'd die, I think...."

They didn't touch one another, but stood opposite gazing, face into face.

"What are we to do?" he said. "It can't be wicked just to meet like this and to talk a little."

"I'd like you to know," she answered, "that you and my son--you are all I have in the world.
The two of you. And my son has some secret from me.

"I have been so lonely too. But I don't feel lonely any more. Your friendship for me...."

"Yes, I am your friend. Think of me like that. Your friend from the first moment I saw you--you
so quiet and gentle and unhappy. I realized your unhappiness instantly. No one else in this
place seemed to notice it. I believe God meant us to be friends, meant me to bring you happiness--a
little...."

"Happiness?" she shivered. "Isn't it cold to-night? Do you see that strange green cloud? Ah,
now it is gone. All the light is going.... Do you believe in God?"

He came closer to her. His hand touched her arm.

"Yes," he answered fiercely. "And He means me to care for you." His hand, trembling, stroked
her arm. She did not move. His hand, shaking, touched her neck. He bent forward and kissed
her neck, her mouth, then her eyes.

She leant her head wearily for an instant on his shoulder, then, whispering good-night, she
turned and went quietly up the path.

Chapter II

Souls on Sunday

I must have been thirteen or fourteen years of age--it may have been indeed in this very year
'97--when I first read Stevenson's story of Treasure Island. It is the fashion, I believe,
now with the Clever Solemn Ones to despise Stevenson as a writer of romantic Tushery,

All the same, if it's realism they want I'm still waiting to see something more realistic than
Pew or Long John Silver. Realism may depend as truly on a blind man's tap with his stick upon
the ground as on any number of adulteries.

In those young years, thank God, I knew nothing about realism and read the tale for what it
was worth. And it was worth three hundred bags of gold. Now, on looking back, it seems to me
that the spirit that overtook our town just at this time was very like the spirit that seized
upon Dr. Livesey, young Hawkins and the rest when they discovered the dead Buccaneer's map.
This is no forced parallel. It was with a real sense of adventure that the Whispering began
about the Brandons and Ronder and the Pybus St. Anthony living and the rest of it. Where did
the Whispering start? Who can ever tell?

Our Polchester Whispering was carried on and fostered very largely by our servants. As in every
village and town in Glebeshire, the intermarrying that had been going on for generations was
astonishing. Every servant- maid, every errand-boy, every gardener and coachman in Polchester
was cousin, brother or sister to every other servant-maid, errand-boy, gardener and coachman.
They made, these people, a perfect net about our town.

The things that they carried from house to house, however, were never the actual things; they
were simply the material from which the actual things were made. Nor was the construction of
the actual tale positively malicious; it was only that our eyes were caught by the drama of
life and we could not help but exclaim with little gasps and cries at the wonderful excitement
of the history that we saw. Our treasure-hunting was simply for the fun of the thrill of the
chase, not at all that we wished harm to a soul in the world. If, on occasion, a slight hint
of maliciousness did find its place with us, it was only because in this insecure world it
is delightful to reaffirm our own security as we watch our neighbours topple over. We do not
wish them to "topple," but if somebody has got to fall we would rather it were not ourselves. Mayor Don Roque, who from time immemorial
had been attending the shop in company with Don Morana Segis Chaplain Augustinian nuns and Don
Benigno the curate of the parish, and drinking during of the night, four to eight glasses of
wine from Rueda, depending on the circumstances, could not suffer the domestic hearth more than
three days and also went to the street. He was accompanied by octogenarian Sheriff Marcones
with carbine and saber. He went armed with pistol and sword.

Then and later, were going out and spreading through the night gatherings Don Melchor, Gabino
Maza, Pedro Miranda, Delaunay, Don Mateo, and everyone else. The Indians took longer. The same
store Graells than the Saloncillo Morana and were transformed when night falls in real stocks.
Each one of those who were arriving left Arrimadas to the wall their weapons and military equipment.
When exiting turn to take up with a dauntless courage, Cantabrian worth the blood that almost
all wore in the veins. There the old blunderbuss spark alternated as equals with the modern
American rifle twelve shots, the sword cylindrical iron with burnished sprat who keep the new poles,
the puppy rough bronze with niello revolver. And this same diversity contributed powerfully lethal weapons
to maintain in all breasts the war spirit is so necessary at that time.

They had taken some very wise, very useful. Until twelve o'clock the watchmen were ordered not
to turn off any lamp. To those they had provided new whistles infinitely louder than the old. Prevention
also had to monitor any stranger who walk the streets. Among the neighbors had agreed judiciously do
not let anyone sidewalk from ten onwards as it was not a friend. Is known all the huge impact
it has on crime this habit of leaving the pavement. With this reason, finding a night on the
streets of San Florencio Miranda and Don Pedro Feliciano Gomez, both wrapped in their carriks, with
rapiers drawn, prevented for any event Feliciano Pedro yelled at from afar:

- Hey, friend, the brook!

- Phs, phs, you let him depart - Don Pedro
answered.

- Who should you depart - replicates the merchant .-- The
stream, the stream!

- Phs, phs, then you please stop the passage
ex - meets Mr. Miranda.

Neither moved from its site.

Habíanse unmasked and showed sharp tip and of florets.

- Have the kindness ...

- Do you treat ...

Who knows the horrible tragedy that had occurred in Sarrió, if, after
quite a while found these men over and arrested on his way, had not
been recognized?

- Would you perhaps don Feliciano?

...

- Would you Don Pedro?

- Don Feliciano!

- Don Pedro!

And they came running and they shook hands warmly.

- What luck have you had that would have recognized, Don Feliciano!
- Said Mr Miranda showed his broad sword iron fist bone.

- Because
of you have not been small, Pedro! - Answered the merchant wielding
in a thin air and bluing of Toledo.

To enter the shop needed Morana down two steps. The shop was a sweet-shop even if they seem, the
only candy that were then in Sarrió. Today, if I mistake not, now has three. And it seemed to
say no, because they were sold church candles, hand and foot and heads and trunks of wax for
deals. These objects had been gradually filling all its scope, from trading to cool the main
virtue of the no sweet tooth were the residents of that town. And this is one of the characteristics
that claim for her. In Spain is very general that the inhabitants of the villages and small
towns are given with passion for sweets.

Not enjoying the pleasures of all sorts that provide the big cities, sensuality escapes from
there.

Perhaps it is argued that the Augustinian nuns Sarrió also produced sweet, but we note that this
production was limited exclusively to cheese plum, quince, pear and apricot, the occasional
almond cake and borage, and a very special sweet like the scales of the fish called orange
blossom. No doubt it; in Sarrió were few greedy. After all, this rare virtue in the towns of the
interior, not so much in maritime populations less subject, as is known, the clerical influence.
Because according to the observation that may be traveling through the towns of the interior
of Spain, there eat more sweets where worship and religious practices absorb more of the life
and greater power of religious feeling translates into novenas, rosaries
sung fraternities and canons.

This shows that there must be some mysterious affinity between mysticism and confectionery.

This
was displayed in the shop Morana two painted pine cabinets blue glass doors located at both
of sides of the counter. These cabinets was kept a reasonable amount of candy, donuts dipped,
sighs, muffins, almond, and above all, the spreaders praised and whose reputation will be very
famous tablets certainly reached the ears of our readers. Everything from ancient times. The
tablets, whose composition magic we could never find out, had an irresistible attraction, based,
rare case! in its extraordinary hardness. At an age when they ate the tablets how important
the Morana was not the sweets were delicate, delicious, exquisite, but that lasted long. To make
the teeth bite into them, was forced permeating previously a fabulous amount of saliva. Once
driven into its high-sticky paste grade, separate them again came to be a real problem. Let me
dedicate a delicate reminder of sympathy and recognition of these tablets from four to eight
years are linked to the happiest moments of my life. At the sugar influx may be the author of
this book the flower of optimism, which, critics say, shine in his works.

La Morana, daughter and heiress of another Morana already dead, was
a woman of forty, pale, with patches of gutta-percha in the temples
for headaches.

She was married to a John Chrysostom, which in the words of Don Segis, chaplain, was not the Chrysostomos.
No However, when administered a beating to his wife, used to show some unusual erudition.

- "I who loved this woman - he exclaimed with tenderness, snuggling
the stick to the wall .-- I I loved this woman as wife and not as
a servant, as mandated by the Apostle Paul!

... Did you you read the Apostle Paul? ... What you had to read you, great cow !...»

The wine was very good, almost can be said that it was the only good
thing in this establishment, and That would not stop much in the cellar.

Don Roque, Don Segis, Don Benigno, Don Juan Salado and Mr. Anselmo cabinetmaker, took care to
pass it fixed term to yours. Was white wine, strong, superior, who rose to head with astonishing
ease. The circles Store every night, between eleven and twelve, went tumbling to their homes,
but quiet, grave, without ever giving the least scandal. They used the five holding out arm in supporting
each other. Upon reaching the walls of the garden of the convent of the Augustinian urinated.
After continuing on his way without saying a word, but much huffing and puffing. Instinct, which
never completely left, I suggested this prudent conduct. Included that if they spoke little or a lot,
could become entangled in a dispute. Hence the voices and scandal Therefore ... Nothing, nothing,
it was best not complaining. To reach their homes were released muttering with clumsy language, "Good
evening." The last was Don Roque to live farther than none.

This serious, modest, patriarchal emborachaban those venerable elders
are all night of the year.

Two of them, Don Juan Salado, clerk of the City, and Don Segis, experienced and the consequences
of that life. The Salado had a nose that was scary see: when you least expect it fell on the minutes.
Don Segis had suffered a stroke, a result which dragged his right leg as if it carry arrobas
six weight. True that the insatiable chaplain was not satisfied with paneled Wine of the confectionery.
For every one that was necessary to swallow that will serve Morana a glass of gin, which carefully
poured into a bottle that led to the effect on pocket. If there were six panels, six cups, if eight,
eight. All this gin gently passed your stomach in small sips after he had gone to bed. "But
Don Segis, how much do you drink gin once? - I have no choice - he answered in a resigned tone
and humble man who broke his heart .-- If not drink a drink for every quarter pound, which would Me,
son of soul? ... I would spend the night like a horse! "

The talks were Morana shop and moved less interesting than the Club. The old commentators were
interested and very few things in the world.

Cases most serious of the town, which promoted the Saloncillo storms, were treated, or rather,
they touched lightly without any passion. Gonzalez had fired the the captain of the Carmen and appointed
in his place an Andalusian.

- When Gonzalez have - a slow and said quietly, - have their reasons.

-
It's true - answer other after a while, raising his glass to his lips.

-
Ripalda seemed a good subject - said a third, after five minutes,
leaving the glass on the counter and belching.

- Yes, it seemed -
replied another seriously.

Passed ten minutes of meditation. The gatherings gave some loving kisses the glass, topaz appeared.
Don Roque breaks the silence:

- Anyway, there is no doubt that Don Antonio scorched him.

- I burned - Don Juan says the Salado.

- I burned - confirms Don Benigno.

- I burned - corroborates Mr.
Anselmo.

- I burned completely - resume finally Don Segis grimly.

What altered the mood once in a while, was the question of pigeons. Mr. Anselmo and Don Benigno
fed unquenchable passion for these animals. Each had his loft, their breeds, breeding procedures,
and such ends often became entangled in long and lively discussions. The others listened seriously,
not daring to decide, up and down counter the glass to his lips with religious silence. The crime
of the Windmills were upset, but caused deep unease in them than in the rest of the neighborhood.
After five or six days, returned to their patriarchal customs. And such was his courage, that
most forgotten nights of weapons left in the store.

Twelve would be the edge of one, in which Don Roque had passed with three more Grilles six rate
ordinarily imposed when the five pillars of the tearoom Morana chain came in tight to their
homes. Marcones brought up the rear, with rifle on his shoulder. The first one was released
Segis don, who lived in a little two balconies, attached to the Augustinian convent. After Don Juan
was the Salado. After the coadjutor. Finally, Mr. Anselmo, pulling out the big shiny key that
served as a baton when conducted the orchestra, opened the workshop where he slept.

The mayor was just on the strength of his command. He said something, but the force did not
understand. They started walking home, which was not far. But before reaching it, Don Roque blowing
and snorting like a whale, and imitated as far as possible, swirling up gasping of this whale, suddenly
stopped, and uttered aloud a long speech, which no Marcones understood more than the word thieves,
repeated several times. He looked at the sheriff with shock all around to see if anyone saw,
setting the rifle at the same time, but observed nothing ever made him suspicious of the outlaws.
Roque turned to use a word, if that name deserved intermittent regurgitation of a portion of
sounds strange, barbaric, pitiful, that instilled sadness and horror at the same time, and Marcones
could then infer that his boss wanted them to do a sweep through the town, looking for criminals
of the Windmills.

Marcones mused that the force was low and prevented bad for that company, but the discipline not allowed
to make objections. In addition, born in his heart the hope that the murderers some fans were
taking the air at this hour. And after careful consideration weapons, they began a march through all
the dangerous streets and alleys of villa. In honor of the truth, it should be noted that Mr.
Roque was ahead and to meet a courageous leader with his revolver in his left hand and the
sword-stick on the right, exposing the first chest to lead his noble enemy. Marcones, groaning under
the weight of rifle and eighty-two years she had walked back to a distance of six steps soon.

It
was a moonlit night, but big black clouds often hid it for long.

And then the dim light of oil lamps burning in the street corners not enough to undo the shadows
that crowded into the middle of them. Consists Sarrió five main questions: la Rúa Nueva, which
flows into the spring, that of Caborana, the San Florencio, that of blacksmithing and Back.
These streets are long, wide enough and parallel. The buildings are generally low and poor.
Other secondary streets in considerable numbers, the cross and communicate. In addition, he
go outside some tails to the village, where they built sumptuous houses the Indians. They are
what might be called the expansion of the population.

Arriving on foot column by Back Street, near St. Bridget, heard screams
and laments that forced her to stop.

- What is it, Marcones? - Said
the mayor.

The old sheriff shrugged philosophically.

- Nothing, sir, will be at home in Santa Patina.

- And how dare these
mort?

... Let there Marcones, we act continuously.

"Continuous act" was a phrase that Mr. Roque used and abused.

It symbolized for him the energy, decision, the speed of the authority to remedy all damages.

Patina Santa was the high priest of one of the two temples of pleasure that existed in Sarrió.
Occasionally went into the villages and neighboring towns that brought the priestesses were
required, four ever spent. There was more cabinets, and that they slept in pairs. Dressed
the same green baize petticoat or red, the same doublet without whales, the same shirt big canvas,
the same calico handkerchief when bounded about back in the meadows and Mountains with the
cowboys neighbors. Patina Santa, as only symbols of the new and high destiny that the fate has
called them, hanging from her ears and imprisoned pearl earrings his feet with twill low-cut shoes,
which were well bonded to the house and served for all they arrived. Patina later, taking
over the world up and that the laws of progress are alienable had the audacity to enter his
temple rice powder. After doublé bought some medallions to hang around his neck with a terciopelito
black. True that all these reforms will stimulate competition disastrous he was scantily clad,
which had its school on the street the clock, on the other end the
villa.

- What scandal is this? - Roque shouted in a stentorian voice
approaching the filthy hovel.

Three or four boys who had fled into the street like birds in view of the hawk. But were the pigeons.
Two of them were at the door in shirtsleeves, leaning out the other two the windows in the same
suit.

The door wanted to pull out in view of the Mayor but he picks on
his paws.

- What is this scandal ... garlic? - Repeated.

- Mr. Mayor,
we have given two false pieces ...-- said one of them.

- You are
not bad parts you ... To jail!

- But, Mr. Mayor!

- A prison ...
garlic, to jail! - Roared Don Roque .-- And you as well.

Everyone down. Where the bugger is Patina?

Good heavens, what a fuss was assembled there in a minute!

The girls in the window had no choice but to go down, and Patina same,
all in shirt Roque admitted because no dilatory term.

Nothing was heard but groans and moans, and Above them the horrible voice of the mayor, repeating
incessantly:

- A prison ... garlic! A prison ... garlic!

The unhappy called by God and the Virgin that dejasen dress, but the
mayor, the face carried away by anger and bloodshot eyes, shouting
ever more strongly, stunned with his own voice:

- A prison ... garlic!.,
A prison ... garlic!

And there was no other choice. The watchman, who had come to hear the first garlic, conducted
in that provision to the municipal jail, with his dignified head, while neighbors, including
smiling and compassionate, watched the scene behind the glass your
windows.

Roque authority itself closed the door of the loft, and put the key 'continuing act' Marcones custody.
Then continued their march dangerous.

Space had not gone far when one of the narrowest streets and murky,
matched to see the bulk of a person who cautiously approached the
door of a house and was opening.

- Stop! - Roque whispered in the
ear of his subordinate .-- We have already encountered one of the
thieves.

The sheriff did not understand but the last word. It was enough to fell the gun was hands.

- Do not tremble, Marcones, which for now is only one - the mayor said taking her by the arm.

If the venerable Marcones sane at the time had their powers of observation, had noticed anything
in the hand of authority very definite tendency to convulsive movement.

The thief, he felt the footsteps of the patrol, turned his head with
a start and remained still with the pick in his hand.

Don Roque and Marcones also stood still.

The moon, work by filtering with a cloud, began to light that fateful scene.

- Phs, phs, friend - the mayor said after a while, without advancing a step.

Amical hear the thief this call by the authority and take flight,
it was all one.

- To him, Marcones!

Fire! - Roque shouted, turning to run hard in pursuit of the criminal.

Marcene

refused to obey the order of his boss, but it was not possible, the
hammer fell on the piston without popping the primer.

Then, with martial decision, threw the gun that it did not help anything,
pulled the sword from the sheath of leather and made a supreme effort
by meet the mayor, with reckless courage she had advanced at least
twenty steps the pursuit of the thief.

This had gone on a street corner.

But to get there could see his spine trying to win another.

Pum!

Don Roque fired his gun, shouting at the same time:

- Date, thief!

Turned away, turned to him upon arrival at Mercy Street.

Pum! Another shot of Mr. Roque.

- Date, thief!

But the outlaw, undoubtedly as a supreme source, and to prevent a
peaceful stop him, began to cry also:

- Thieves, thieves!

There was the shrill whistle and whistle of a prolonged calm, then another, then another ...

San Florencio street was well lit, and the criminal could be clearly
seen slipping with amazing speed searching in vain for the shadow
of the houses.

Pum, pum!

- Date, thief!

- Thieves! - Said the bandit while running.

Two watchmen were added to the column, and ran brandishing pikes beside the mayor.

The wanted criminal at any cost to win the New Rua order may be made
to the Dock and hide in a ship or jump into the water.

But before she tripped reach and gave his body on the floor.

Thanks to this accident earned him considerable Patrol distance walked
close to achieving.

But before this happens, the outlaw, rising with extreme alacrity, fled lighter than the wind.
Don Roque last two shots fired on his revolver, always yelling:

- Date, thief!
Disappeared at the corner of Rua Nueva. Lead her to the mayor and
his force near the square of the Navy, saw no trace of anything criminal.
Followed hesitant up to that post. They stopped not knowing what to
do.

- At the pier, the pier, there must be - a serene said.

And
they were about to undertake all the way, when you opened the balcony
of a crash house, a man appeared in his underwear, and heard these
words, which resonated deeply into the silence of the night:

- The
thief just walked into the cafe on the Marina!

He who uttered them
was Don Feliciano Gómez. The patrol, to listen, rushed to the cafe
door, and entered it noisily. The room was empty. Back in the bottom,
next to the counter, sailing three or four young men in a white apron
surrounding a man who was shot more than sitting on a chair. The mayor,
the sheriff, the calm fell over him, putting to heart the pikes, sword
and saber. And at a time they shouted:

- Date, thief!

The criminal
up to them his terrified face, paler than the wax.

- Oh, re ... if
Don Jaime, so help me God! - said a calm down the pike.

All the others
did the same, dumb with surprise. Because, in fact, the outlaw who
had persecuted to death, was none other than Marin caught red-handed,
when opening the your door.

We had to bring her shoulders, and bleed.
The next day, Mr. Roque was presented to apologize, and he got it. But Polchester was far from the general highway
and, although the picture of the wonderful old lady, now nearly eighty years of age, was strong
before every one's vision, there was a deep determination to make this year's celebration a
great Polchester affair, to make it the celebration of Polchester men and Polchester history
and Polchester progress.

The programme had been long arranged--the great Service in the Cathedral, the Ball in the Assembly
Rooms, the Flower Show in the St. Leath Castle grounds, the Torchlight Procession, the Croquet
Tournament, the School- children's Tea and the School Cricket-match. A fine programme, and
the Jubilee Committee, with the Bishop, the Mayor, and the Countess of St. Leath for its presidents,
had already held several meetings.

Nevertheless, Glebeshire has a rather languishing climate. Polchester has been called by its
critics "a lazy town," and it must be confessed that everything in connection with the Jubilee
had been jogging along very sleepily until of a sudden this warm May-day arrived, and every
one sprang into action. The Mayor called a meeting of the town branch of the Committee, and
the Bishop out at Carpledon summoned his ecclesiastics, and Joan found a note from Gladys Sampson
beckoning her to the Sampson house to do her share of the glorious work. It had been decided
by the Higher Powers that it would be a charming thing for some of the younger Polchester ladies
to have in charge the working of two of the flags that were to decorate the Assembly Room walls
on the night of the Ball. Gladys Sampson, who, unlike her mother, never suffered from headaches,
and was a strong, determined, rather masculine girl, soon had the affair in hand, and the party
was summoned.

I would not like to say that Polchester had a more snobbish spirit than other Cathedral towns,
but there is no doubt that, thirty years ago, the lines were drawn very clearly indeed between
the "Cathedral" and the "Others."

"Cathedral" included not only the daughters of the Canons and what Mr. Martin, in his little
town guide-book, called "General Ecclesiastical Phenomena," but also the two daughters of Puddifoot's
sister, Grace and Annie Trudon; the three daughters of Roger McKenzie, the town lawyer; little
Betty Callender, the only child of old, red-faced Major Callender; Mary and Amy Forrester,
daughters of old Admiral Forrester; and, of course, the St. Leath girls.

When Joan arrived, then, in the Deanery dining-room there was a fine gathering. Very unsophisticated
they would all have been considered by the present generation. Lady Rose and Lady Mary, who
were both of them nearer forty than thirty, had of course had some experience of London, and
had been even to Paris and Rome. Of the "Others," at this time, only Betty Callender, who had
been born in India, and the Forresters had been farther, in all their lives, than Drymouth. 

Valentina, embroidery, too, and blonde, was not so beautiful. Its smaller eyes, your less sensitive
skin, nose a little rolled up, the lower height. Instead his hair gold was curly and he fell gracefully
over his forehead, his hands and feet more sensitive and shorter than those of Nevis, and, above all,
had often, almost constantly, a frown, a furrowed brow that he was not angry and gave his face
a shade picaresque extremely friendly. Encarnacion was a seamstress, waitress robust, red, pudgy,
vulgar appearance. Artisans of Sarrió going through the best girl of the four-to the intelligent
and refined connoisseur worth much. Teresa, a seamstress too, was on his face true blackberry,
and darker which, the jet black hair, slanted eyes and as black as his hair, nose and mouth right.
Ugly passing through the village because of color: in fact it was a beautiful oriental. Of the two
daughters of the house, a, Generosa had nothing to draw attention, the other, Elvira, was a
palidita, eyes large, closed, very funny.

The Sarrió artisans have never gone for the ridiculous imitation of
the ladies, so widespread Today, unfortunately, among other peoples
of Spain.

They believed and believe these distinguished Sarrio, and I entirely endorse his view that the costume
and fashions adopted by the ladies sees our little not let your natural graces before the undermining.
And this is logical. In First are not accustomed to wear such as subject or tight costumes
demand from their subordinates. Then, in the villages no one cut in style. Finally, gender
has to be of lower quality, poorer and uglier. However, upon the globe who globe, and even on
the other balloons sailing through space, competing with them in putting The rich floral shawl from
China, tied at the waist from behind? Who to drop more grace, even so, the curls of hair in the
front carelessly studied? Who moves more gracefully into the giraldilla or give more elegance to
a rempujón gentleman who gets out, saying while smiling and angry ?--«¿ between Christian, you
is silly, or made? Look to be a prick! "Who is able to sing with more feeling and less heard
around that of a pilgrimage

Aben-Hamet from Granada to the pierced heart feel?

    No doubt it. The Sarrió artisans
    whose aesthetic principles are rooted admiration of friends and strangers,
especially now that the characters disappear, do good to maintain
their independence and to raise his head in front of the swanky ladies
of the villa.

Because (let's put under so that they do not find out) the truth is that they are much more beautiful.
This, without offending anyone in particular, save me God. No traveler peninsular Sarrió remind
that does not assert the same with more or less energy depending on the nature of temperament.
No inglesote those which call for a few days to the end of Pawn to talk back in Cardiff or Bristol
to friends of this Spanish town, not starting up many eyebrows, open mouth in a circle extending
out perfect lips and leaning back in his chair not exclaim: - Oh, oh, oh! Yeung Sarrió the girls
very, very, very beautiful!

And when the English say, do not tell the Spanish, and in particular those We have lived so long
under their beneficent influence!

The four officers and Nevis as well, though it stung higher, belonged then to the famous breed
of women whose preservation and prosperity I pray to heaven all days
and advise all that makes a good Catholic.

In the working days wore calico Wool mantoncito tied back and silk scarf around his neck, revealing,
of course, head. Nieves, by exception, brought to China Daily black shawl with fringe.

Just get to work after lunch. The sun penetrates the two balconies in the room to through the curtains.
For you do not mind, seamstresses fall into one of the corners.

Teresa, the most Philharmonic them softly sings a song romantic and shy sad and prolonged cadences,
on purpose to be accompanied in third. And indeed, Snow was quick to give the duo, as there
was said. Other's still singing, some in first and others second voice. All of which is a harmony
Asaz melancholy flavor romantic stark. The romance may escape the customs and being thrown in
the novel and theater, most always find a warm nest and delicious where shelter in the heart
of Sarrió young artisans. Harmony that lasts until the charge of breaking Pablito releasing it
suddenly in the midst of his booming voice of ram. Seamstresses suspend singing and head up frightened.
Then he burst out laughing.

The beautiful Pablito, leaning back in his chair in another corner, laughs too loud with strong
of His grace.

Since he had begun to sew her sister's team, expressed a taste Pablito
by the sedentary life that until then had never seen in him.

Who had seen in the days of life one minute stop at home after eating? Who could imagine who
spent the morning sitting in that chair giving the seamstresses parola? Sure enough, however. It
had been nearly a month since I came on horseback or by car, and not passed on block over an
hour every day.

Pisces was shocked.

Came daily to look, but in vain.

- Look, Pisces, today I have to clean the silver stirrups, I can not leave .-- Look, Pisces I
have to go to collect a letter on behalf of father .-- Look, Pisces,
Linda is with torozón and it can not be mounted.

- It is good - growled
Pisces.

- Do you come from the block?

- Yes.

- Well ... anyway
today because I can not leave ... I have a rash here ... it saves
the Part ...

Some days Pisces entered the sewing room, and without
saying anything sitting waiting a while not very long is almost never
because harbored strong suspicions that the seamstresses were laughing
him, and this was startled and embers.

When he felt the time is right, or because they have symptoms of
fatigue in Paul or any other circumstance which is within our reach,
rising from the seat and made a hand signal to his friend whistled
at the same time.

This is because they understood much better than words whistles.

Both disliked by the articulate sound, especially Pisces, and spared
his job.

More Pablito gave the same whistles and flutes.

- Male, Pisces ... I have a sloth! ... You do me the favor of going to the block and tell Pepe
to give another Rosemary oil ointment?

- I will give - answered with gloomy countenance Pisces.

- Well, Pisces, thank you very much ... Goodbye ... Be sure to come tomorrow, eh? ... May leave
horse.

He said this with great gentleness and kindness, to make amends. Pisces muttered a 'good evening
"without turning to the bystanders, and crooked left eye, ugly and
devilish than ever.

The next day the same.

Despite the reverence that inspired him Pablito Pisces came to assume that he liked one of the
seamstresses.

What? His insight did not resolve.

Began again his song girls, but on reaching that of

Only you, divine woman will pray a prayer in my lonely grave, and
so on.

    
    
    Pablito let out another loud and deafening screech.

Return to laughter. Venturita became serious.

- Look, Paul, if you continue to do silly, you better go with Pisces.

Pablito turn gets dull.

- I'll go when I want. Always be you that spoil everything!

He meant the young Belinchón that only his sister insisted on ignoring
Ventura the ingenuity with which heaven had given him.

And it was true. All the others laughed jubilant, as if, instead of a screech just heard a
passage from Rabelais.

Dona Paula, who had admiration for his eldest son idolatrous, and yet kept a grudge against
her daughter by her answers, though it is largely paid for her beauty, wine that aid.

- You're right Paul. Whenever you have to spoil every party! ... Jesus
what creature!

... The he is the man to take you, fat is a sin to purge.

At that time appeared in the doorway of the room Gonzalo, who is bent
like a bow to shake hands with his future mother, and Cecilia Ventura.

This was serious. Without turning head toward them, warned that all the seamstresses looked out of
the corner of the eye.

He saw thought the hint of a smile forming on their faces.

The same thing happened every day.

Before arriving Gonzalo, seamstresses were pleased to direct, whenever
he came to mind, a dig at the bride.

- Cecilia, which of these shirts
you are putting on the wedding day?

It should be noted that some of them have met the tuteaban for girls. Very often in the villages.

- Miss, in these sheets so thin you will slip.

- It is not slipping and alone. Right, Cecilia?

- Anda, mischievous, good-looking that you get!

- Do not be so handsome Venturita.

- Who knows - it replied.

Cecilia heard these sayings with a smile on his lips and flushed. Since they had started wedding
preparations, her cheeks, once so pale, they were almost always flushed. This liveliness and happiness
lent brightness to your eyes, if not pretty, made it interesting and friendly. No girl on the
eve of marriage ceases to be more or less.

Cecilia was reserved and quiet condition, without giving in so taciturn. Ordinarily spoke only when
addressed him, but his answers were smooth, clear, accurate. It was the hallmark of his character's
shyness, which often provide sovereign spell girls. But in place of this quality, our heroine
had a sweet serenity, some nice strength in all his words and gestures
that reveal the perfect clarity of his spirit.

This serenity was happening for some people some observers, if not for pride, it was clear that
Cecilia did not have it, for coldness of heart. Believed, even the close to the house, which was
unable to conceive a passion alive and tender. Accustomed to see impassive fulfilling domestic
duties with clockwork regularity, I was forced a major effort to penetrate, not everyone can perform
to divine the true The oldest moral physiognomy of Belinchón.

Most of these beings live and die unknown, because they have one
of those shining qualities that appeal to and attract approaches.

Innocence itself, oddly enough, belongs to that number, and not what
less attention paid to a woman's character.

Very few are those who appreciate the beauty crystal contained in
these souls.

The look is immersed in them without finding anything to wake up
attention.

But the same goes for certain poisons, as with certain filters that give life. Because our
eyes do not look clumsy and limited elements of health or death there
suspended in them, are we to say that there?

It was difficult out sad or unpleasant emotions that crossed the soul of Cecilia, but not impossible.
We do not know if I put effort to hide or was forced upon them by the same nature. The truth is
that in the house, even his parents almost always the unknown.

It was, eg, leaving one day visits, or to buy a dress, Dona Paula asked her daughter to request:

- How about that, Cecilia?

- Sounds good - answered it.

- You okay,
really? - Said the mother looking into her eyes.

- Yes, Mom, that's
fine.

Dona Paula was always in doubt whether he pleased or really disliked the dress or whatever.

Cried very few times, and even those are hidden to make it so that nobody knew. The biggest disappointment
that he had, only denounced by a slight wrinkle on the forehead; the greatest joy for a little
more intensity in the delicate smile, constantly spread his face. When Gonzalo wrote from abroad,
so read the letter submitted his mother and handed.

- Do you like the boy? - Asked after reading it with more emotion than he had expressed his daughter
to deliver.

- Do you like yourself?

- To me yes.

- Well if you like you and dad, I also like - said the girl.

Who could imagine after these cold words that Cecilia had long had deep love? However, as love is
the human feeling more difficult to conceal, and then the consent
of their parents had no reason to hide, let him see quite clarity.

In the temperaments as our heroine, any sign, however slight, is crucial. The happiness that filled
his heart, sprang, therefore, to his face in view of all who knew her intimately. Few beings have
enjoyed most in the land Cecilia in that season. All that canvas spread across the room, those
patterns paper, drawings, racks, spools of thread, I spoke a mysterious language and tender.
Scissors to cut chis chis, sewing needles to creak, crunch, they
said so funny things in the future!

Sometimes they said: '- Who do you see, Cecilia, go to Mass Sundays arm your husband? He will lead the
prayer book, I will go to the altar of Our Lady of Sorrows and placed
behind men.

Then you wait for the exit will offer the holy water and the arm
will catch you. " Other times he said "- The Early morning you will
rise very slowly so he would not wake up, clean your clothes, put
the buttons on his shirt, and when the time comes you serve yourself
the chocolate. " Other suddenly exclaimed: "- And when you have a
child!" Then the bride was a turning very pleasing in the heart, his
hands trembled and cast a quick glance at the seamstresses fearing
who had noticed her excitement.

When the different parts were finished
and ironed clothes, Cecilia was getting the carefully in a basket.
So I was filled with the rose on her head to one of the rooms above,
where art with care and placed shirts, blouse, caps and hairdressers
on some desks made the attempt: the delicately covered with a cloth,
and then out closing the door and keeping the key in his pocket.

After
he had saluted, Gonzalo went to sit by Pablito, and passing his hand
familiarly over his shoulder, whispered:

- What is your favorite? He did not advance to
them but became, as it were, himself one of them, understanding exactly the way that they wanted
him.

And Joan hated him; she hated his red face and his neatness and his broad chest and his stout
legs--everything, everything! She also feared him. She had never before, although for long
now she had been conscious of his power, been so deeply aware of his connection with herself.
It was as though his round shadow had, on this lovely afternoon, crept forward a little and
touched with its dim grey for the first time the Brandon house.

"Canon Ronder," Gladys Sampson cried, "come and see what we've done."

He moved forward and patted little Betty Callender on the head as he passed. "Are you all right,
my dear, and your father?"

It appeared that Betty was delighted. Suddenly he saw Joan.

"Oh, good evening, Miss Brandon." He altered his tone for her, speaking as though she were
an equal.

Joan looked at him; colour flamed in her cheeks. She did not reply, and then feeling as though
in an instant she would do something quite disgraceful, she slipped from the room.

Soon, after gently smiling at the parlourmaid, who was an old friend of hers because she had
once been in service at the Brandons, she found herself standing, a little lost and bewildered,
at the corner of Green Lane and Orange Street. Lost and bewildered because one emotion after
another seemed suddenly to have seized upon her and taken her captive. Lost and bewildered
almost as though she had been bewitched, carried off through the shining skies by her captor
and then dropped, deserted, left, in some unknown country.

Green Lane in the evening light had a fairy air. The stumpy trees on either side with the bright
new green of the spring seemed to be concealing lamps within their branches. So thick a glow
suffused the air that it was as though strangely coloured fruit, purple and orange and amethyst,
hung glittering against the pale yellow sky, and the road running up the hill was like pale wax.

On the other side Orange Street tumbled pell-mell into the roofs of the town. The monument
of the fierce Georgian citizen near which Joan was standing guarded with a benevolent devotion
the little city whose lights, stealing now upon the air, sprinkled the evening sky with a jewelled
haze. No sound broke the peace; no one came nor went; only the trees of the Lane moved and
stirred very faintly as though assuring the girl of their friendly company.

Never before had she so passionately loved her town. It seemed to-night when she was disturbed
by her new love, her new fear, her new worldly knowledge, to be eager to assure her that it
was with her in all her troubles, that it understood that she must pass into new experiences,
that it knew, none better indeed, how strange and terrifying that first realisation of real
life could be, that it had itself suffered when new streets had been thrust upon it and old
loved houses pulled down and the river choked and the hills despoiled, but that everything
passes and love remains and homeliness and friends.

Joan felt more her own response to the town than the town's reassurance to her, but she was
a little comforted and she felt a little safer.

She argued as she walked home through the Market Place and up the High Street and under the
Arden Gate into the quiet sheltered Precincts, why should she think that Ronder mattered? After
all might not he be the good fat clergyman that he appeared? It was more perhaps a kind of
jealousy because of her father that she felt. She put aside her own little troubles in a sudden
rush of tenderness for her family. She wanted to protect them all and make them happy. But
how could she make them happy if they would tell her nothing? The
three chairs together, advancing the bodies until their heads almost touching, began to chat.
Dona Paula immediately addressed the great question.

- April 28th We ... By the first of September there is no more than
four months - said, giving them a long look between smiling and tenderly.

If

it were possible to put an redder Cecilia, had been placed. Gonzalo's face contracted with a blank
smile and lowered her eyes.

After you have looked at another time, delighting in his confusion,
Dona Paula continued:

- You need to start thinking about clothing
equipment ...

- Mom, God!

It's too early - said the little ashamed, while the heart would fall out of the chest.

- It is early, Cecilia. You do not know how long the embroidery here cast in anything. Nieves has
spent a month to embroider the girl two coats of Dona Rosario ... And heavier Martina that she
is still ...

- Nieves overboard very well.

- No, as there is embroidery in the village who would put your foot forward to Martina ... He
has hands of gold.

- I prefer the embroidery Nieves.

- Well if you want her clothes
edge, for me ...-- Dona Paula said watching her daughter with a malicious
condescension.

- Do not say that, Mom! - Said it all in a hurry I'm
just saying .-- I like the embroidery Nieves than Martina.

Soon he had agreed to discuss the issue of clothing.

Tratáronla
in all respects with the seriousness and care they deserved. In such a mood he loved every
one, would pat children on the back, help old men along the road, listen to the long winnings
of the reluctant poor. Utterly genuine he was; he meant every word that he spoke and every
smile that he bestowed.

Now, early in May and in Polchester he was in such a mood. Soon after his arrival he had discovered
that he liked the place and that it promised to suit him well, but he had never supposed that
it could develop into such perfection. Success already was his, but it was not success of so
swift a kind that plots and plans were not needed. They were very much needed. He could remember
no time in his past life when he had had so admirable a combination of difficulties to overcome.
And they were difficulties of the right kind. They centred around a figure whom he could really
like and admire. It would have been very unpleasant had he hated Brandon or despised him. Those
were uncomfortable emotions in which he indulged as seldom as possible.

What he liked, above everything, was a fight, when he need have no temptation towards anger
or bitterness. Who could be angry with poor Brandon? Nor could he despise him. In his simple
blind confidence and self-esteem there was an element of truth, of strength, even of nobility.

Far from despising or hating Brandon, he liked him immensely--and he was on his way utterly
to destroy him. 

He closed the paper a charade in verse, which, if remembered correctly, was the word hazelnut.

The serial was in charge of Mr. Rufus, who was one and a half studying the French without teacher,
by the method Ollendorf. It was resolved to translate, for the newspaper, The Mysteries Paris,
work in six volumes. Needless to say Sarrió Lighthouse, despite living some years, never made
it to the third volume. Don Rufo was a notable translator. If a defect was brought to an, was
the original setting is too. One day he ventured that "the countess had seized the button
of his secretary." This statement raised as cloud of dust among the ignorant people that Don Rufo,
just angry, left the translation the serial. It was charged to a
driver who had career years in Bayonne.

The success of the prime number, as expected, was wonderful. Sinforoso article, the wise discourse
of Don Jeronimo de la Fuente, the newsletters and to the verses of Parakeet, all was read and justly
celebrated. But what mainly attracted the attention of the serious people and caused a deep impression
on them, was the article by Don Rosendo our purposes. That journalistic language as lively and spirited,
those noble thoughts, enthusiasm the interests of Sarrió, openness and modesty that it glowed, full
of joy hearts and made them to sense an era of prosperity and bienandanza. At night, the orchestra,
directed by Mr. Anselmo with his big shiny key, serenaded to the editor. Iluminóse the facade
of printing with fairy lights. The beautiful and merry artisans Sarrió, caught, as usual, the occasion
for the hairs to dance mazurkas Havana and on the hard stones of the street. The worthy individuals
with the language of metal paid tribute of admiration and enthusiasm to the drafters of Faro,
were treated by them with wine Wheel and cigars. The joy was overflowing with all breasts and
hugging so overflowed strong and spontaneous. Don Rosendo embraced Navarro, Alvaro Peña Rudesindo
don, don Rufo to Sinforoso, and Don Pedro Miranda Folgueras the printer. The musicians hugged
yes, and each and every one to his peritísimo director Mr. Anselmo. Out of print, and also commemorate
this glorious day, he hugged the blonde Pablito Nieves, exploiting the darkness of a doorway,
and several other young men, following his example, equally distributed embraces the joyful celebrations
among Aboriginal girls.

The only thing that troubled for a moment that general contentment, was the singular sadness that
Folgueras seized as he had a few liters of wine into the body. The memory of Lancia his hometown,
he suddenly offered to the spirit, leaving him in a state of distress difficult to explain.
At the moment the happy clamor and reached its maximum, called Rosendo aside and with tears
in his eyes, he said that life outside their homeland adored was unbearable for him a bale.
Death, rather than lose sight of the humble home that housed her crib, and the streets so often
walked their children's feet. That week, if God wanted, had to leave and move Sarrió again with
his gear Lancia.

Upon receiving this news Rosendo abruptly turned pale.

- But, man of God, and the number next to the lighthouse?

- Don Rosendo, you can dispense ... You are a gentleman ... A gentleman knows how to appreciate
feelings of another gentleman ... The country above all ... Guzmán el Bueno threw the knife over
the wall to kill his son ... Too you know. Eh ... What about it? ... Irrigation died on the
scaffold. Eh ... What's that? If I were of the Foundling or had no
affection for the shirt that I wear, do not tell me anything I needed.

Life I would you like a dog giving the wheel ... But feelings drowning man ... The man lives, the man
works, man is sometimes a bit of expansion ... Y because they drink a glass or two ... Or three!
Did you forget the country ?.... Huh? What's that?

Don Don Rosendo Rudesindo called to his aid. Entered the two tried to dissuade him with powerful
reasons. The most powerful of all was a new bottle of wine from Rueda. After having introduced
into the body, the patriotic feelings of Folgueras visibly weakened. Continuous act ordered another
bottle, drank, vomited, and fell asleep.

Thoughts of glory, immortality vague desires of agitated the mind of the illustrious founder El Faro
de Sarrió at the time of going to bed. After turning off the light, even continued disturbed,
until a force of spinning their pieces or take shape. Don Rosendo he thought with excitement at
the possibility of his death the town, grateful perpetuate his memory placing a tombstone with
his name in the town hall.

Tribute of gratitude from the Sarrió villa his enlightened son Don Rosendo Belinchón, tireless
champion of their progress moral and material. It was not easy to sleep surrounded by these brilliant
images. However, after he fell asleep with a smile on his lips. An angel of the Lord progressive
is rigged in such cases, beat its wings all night on his forehead, inspiring dreams happy.

The next morning was in the best state of mind in any man can be found after his efforts crowned by
a flattering success. Dressed himself humming pieces of zarzuela. Chocolate made with the family,
took a look at the national newspapers and foreign and uncut the usual bundle of sticks, threw
himself into the street to make sure the actual effect that the first issue of Faro had occurred.
In the store you were Graells with joy, congratulated him on his article (which he modestly
attributed did not want to) and talked at length the newspaper. What most aroused the enthusiasm
of the good commentators, was the consoling thought that Nieves had not yet arrived or come in a
long time with this level of improvement. And Don Rosendo, slightly warmed by the praise, promised
undertake active campaigns for everything he demanded. One asked us to speak Ravine Back Street,
another asked that we put a bluff near his home, another to him some
pills to highest bidder tirasen beverages, other than not sing calm
time because this will disturb the sleep, etc.. Don Rosendo nodded,
frowned, extended open hand in sign of protection.

The newspaper would fix everything. Woe to him who rebelled against the claims of the press!

In the Dona Rafaela tobacconist of the Rue Saint-Florencio, where they met some honest matrons of
the neighborhood with whom liked to talk a while, given to the sticks, also spoke of Faro. There
are fixed preferably in the melodrama. Don Rosendo announced the next number was much more interesting,
and left. In a crowd of sailors who had congratulated him on the dock with rude enthusiasm
and he hinted at the idea that the dock was very dirty and needed to be dredged. It dragaría: if
dragaría go! Don Rosendo away seriously possessed of omnipotence. And rolling in the distance
see the big waves and choppy, wondered whether it would be opportune
to contact an excitement by the press to moderated their impertinent
agitation.

As you arrive and when to eat, gave the house back to meditating on the grave responsibility would
incur before God and men if, holding in his hands this sovereign power, no employed in the
prosperity and aggrandizement of his hometown. Upon reaching the Rúa Nueva, found on the sidewalk
with Gabino Maza. The former officer greeted him bilious very finely, it asked his family,
and was buried with kindness health of each members. Then he talked about the weather, the possibility
that he is alive Northeast Gale trucks suddenly closed, and no ships could leave America's Career;
immediately complained of dust in the roads, which prevented him from walking, he learned the price
of cod and the news he had of fishing in Newfoundland. Don Rosendo expected, as was natural that
he told the newspaper. Nothing: Maza made no mention of it. This began to embarrass you and
make violent situation. The talk was of a point to another without touching on anything that
relates to the press.

Rosendo Finally, something shortened and teaching all the pasta of
your teeth, he said:

- Have not received your El Faro?

I sent it first.

- Phs ... I think that yesterday I brought home, but I have not yet opened - said Mace affected
indifference .-- Go, Don Rosendo, "you eat like me ?...- Well bye.

Don Rosendo was a moment rooted to the ground as if you take a cold shower. The blood rushed to his face
furiously, and went on his way, halting, toward home. Because he was so unprepared, that contempt
was a stab that came to the quick. After stunning ceased, we undertook an inconceivable wrath against
that ... (Not satisfied to call less than evil and miserable). He came home in a deplorable
state of agitation. Although he sat at the table, making efforts
to calm the stomach, suddenly embarrassed, would not admit the food.

He was sullen and silent during the meal.

From time to as his lips twitched with a smile and muttered a sarcastic villain!

- What are you, Rosendo? - Finally dared to ask his wife, who was already restless.

- Nothing, Paulina, that envy causes havoc in the world - only answered bitterly.

Once discharged this profound statement, was in a state of relative rest. He lay a chair to
think, and within half an hour left home again in the direction of the Club. Upon entering
the cafe's voice shouting Gabino Maza as always up there. You receive from the ladder figured he spoke
of the newspaper and it described as "solemn charade. " Her heart skipped a beat and went
into the room excited and sad. To see Maza, gesturing in the middle of a group, he stopped,
put on his hat and was a sullen gesture sit on the couch. Those who listened to him, Don Jaime
Marin, Delaunay, Don Lorenzo and Don Feliciano Gomez, greeted him with some embarrassment and a shame,
which confirmed his suspicion. Concealed his best, and trying to
put a happy face, began to talk about the news running.

The conversation took the direction of every day, confidence, reigned.

But the engineer Delaunay, as smart as malevolent character, took the talk of newspaper asking
their founder with wry chuckle in broken Spanish that he used:

-
What odd jobs you prepare for the next issue, Don Rosendo?

- I will
see you when you go - he replied dryly, that he guessed the hidden
mockery behind the question.

- Here at Don Feliciano - continued
the engineer with the same smile - you have an advocate arch.

- If
I defend is that someone attacked me - said Don Rosendo even more
dryness.

No one said a word.

The silence lasted a long time, until it broke Belinchón asking a question himself indifferent
to Don Jaime, which the conversation again encouraged. But he had averted the crash but momentarily.
The ball was on the roof and soon to fall. Maza was vehement desire to tell you don Rosendo the
paper was "a mess." This was not less alive to tell it was Maza an envious. And indeed, at
the first opportunity that was presented, both caught by the hairs to communicate these glad
tidings. The dispute lasted more than two hours. Maza sought Rosendo was suppressed because
an older gentleman and he had fifteen thousand reais. The founder of the Lighthouse, for reasons
of prudence, he dared not let the language entirely. However, after all, in better or worse
terms, all said for the edification of the notables, were divided for and on behalf of the contestants.
One must admit that part of Maza got the least. The Indians, indifferent as ever to these fights,
peered occasionally at the door of the pool cue in hand, to hear the reasons the contestants,
and illustrated. For them, those discussions were very helpful. Les taught a lot of terms and phrases
that do not know, and they caught so much, even if in a superficial way, certain problems of
life, entirely closed to them ... Too bad the pool fans can still hear them forever!

The state of agitation and anger that came out of the Club Rosendo can not be weighed. His great
high and magnanimous character, was wounded by a cruel way for the
ingratitude and baseness of those false friends.

Horrible torture must be to live and die in the dark when are born to shine at the peak of human
society, and consume forces received the sky in a vacuum and inaction! More fierce pain is still
despised the noblest view work of the spirit, the generous efforts for the triumph of goodness
and truth! Such was For Socrates, Columbus, Galileo, Giordano Bruno, and possibly also that of
our hero. The first bite of envy caused him severe pain that must have felt these great benefactors
of mankind. His spirit faltered. It was a moment nothing else, a passenger who served fainting
to demonstrate better the admirable temper of his soul.

However, could not have dinner that night. It took a long time to sleep. How many sad considerations
is provided here!

As the mob of deprived Sarrio wit, enlightenment and encouragement, slept soundly, worthy man
rolled in his bed on a bed of thorns, without achieving the caresses of sleep.

The next morning he got up a little pale and haggard, but strong and
determined to continue His work of regeneration, in spite of all moral
and material obstacles arise in its path.

That night of insomnia, rather than waste away his spirit and peel of company, confirmed it
gave him strength to carry to a successful auction. Fire consumes and it sparks the straw to gold
as unblemished.

Ocupóse thus brilliantly in drawing the plan of the second issue that
would appear on Thursday next.

And as always happens, success will brought happy to help. Many jobs that were offered for the
second issue, but most were not step. Lack of space obligóle also reject some who were. This was
some gossip and tasteless. Second obstacle encountered by his patriotic enterprise.

But the publication of the fifth highest number came another that
occurred in the village honda and dragged him feel strong eddies.

It happened that Alvaro Peña, firmly convinced as we know, that all the pains and imperfections
that humans depend suffer only a preponderance of the clergy, to take the gun propúsose newspaper
undertake an active campaign against him. And to start launched the guise of guerrillas, some
few newsletters.


He had, on this occasion, been sober for a longer period than usual; he felt weak and faint,
as though he had been without food, and his favourite vice, that had been approaching closer
and closer to him during these last days, now leered at him, leaning towards him from the other
side of the gilded scrolls of the tomb.

"Yes, it's a very fine thing." He cleared his throat. "You're Canon Ronder, are you not?"

"Yes, I am."

"My name's Davray. You probably heard of me as a drunkard who hangs about the town doing no
good. I'm quite sure you don't want to speak to me or know me, but in here, where it's so quiet
and so beautiful, one may know people whom it wouldn't be nice to know outside."

Ronder looked at him. The man's face, worn now and pinched and sharp, must once have had its
fineness.

"You do yourself an injustice, Mr. Davray," Ronder said. "I'm very glad indeed to know you."

"Well, of course, you parsons have got to know everybody, haven't you? And the sinners especially.
That's your job. But I'm not a sinner to-day. I haven't drunk anything for weeks, although
don't congratulate me, because I'm certainly not going to hold out much longer. There's no
hope of redeeming me, Canon Ronder, even if you have time for the job."

Ronder smiled.

"I'm not going to preach to you," he said, "you needn't be afraid."

"Well, let's forget all that. This Cathedral is the very place, if you clergymen had any sense
of proportion, where you should be ashamed to preach. It laughs at you."

"At any rate the Bishop does," said Render, looking down at the tomb.

"No, but all of it," said Davray. Instinctively they both looked up. High above them, in the
very heart of the great Cathedral tower, a mist, reflected above the windows until it was coloured
a very faint rose, trembled like a sea about the black rafters and rounded pillars. Even as
they looked some bird flew twittering from corner to corner.

"When I'm worked up," said Davray, "which I'm not to-day, I just long to clear all you officials
out of it. I laugh sometimes to think how important you think yourselves and how unimportant
you really are. The Cathedral laughs too, and once and again stretches out a great lazy finger
and just flicks you away as it would a spider's web. I hope you don't think me impertinent."

"Not in the least," said Ronder; "some of us even may feel just as you do about it."

"Brandon doesn't." Davray moved away. "I sometimes think that when I'm properly drunk one day
I'll murder that man. His self-sufficiency and conceit are an insult to the Cathedral. But
the Cathedral knows. It bides its time."

Ronder looked gravely at the melancholy, ineffective figure with the pale pointed beard, and
the weak hands. "You speak very confidently, Mr. Davray," he said. 

Valentina, yet very disturbed, began to tie it.

- I threw a lot, and, to untie, jabbed me with the pin that holds
the tape up ... The poor Gonzalo not managed very well to atármelo,
right? - Said laughing.

- Oh, no! - Said the young man with a forced
smile, in awe of that coolness.

The apology, however well devised, not strained. Val was quite sure what he had seen.

- Do you think it will have swallowed the stick? - Gonzalo asked anxiously
when he had out.

- Perhaps not, but there is careful with her.

It is the quietest of all.

Valentina was to give employers the lady and said goodbye until the
next day.

Al cross the corridor clearly heard the sound of a kiss.

He looked to the dark room there was, and thought he saw the black
and white checkered dress Nieves.

- Boost!

It is hot! - Muttered that frown saladísimo that both characterized.

He went downstairs and out into the street, where and Cosme expected
to accompany her to her home.

VIII

THAT THE MEETING HELD ON SARRIA Procera THEATER ROOM WITH STATE ASSISTANCE

On June 9, 1860, must be marked with letters of gold in the annals of the town of Sarrió.

To this day, relieved by Alvaro Peña and his son Paul, had asked Rosendo Belinchón through BLM
attentive to their neighbors who attended the afternoon to the local theater. It would be a matter
of "vital (for anything in the world is to escape the vital Rosendo)
interest to the village and its council Sarrió.

" Only four or five of the most required the merchant, knew the noble and patriotic thinking that
motivated the call. So which pulled out of curiosity, as well as courtesy, went to three o'clock
all those invited, and many more who had no sailing at the funeral. Theatre filled chock. The
principal people seized the seats and boxes. The common people rose
in the pot. On stage he had placed a writing table old and dirty.
A both of sides of it half a dozen chairs, no more new or cleaner,
which served for the decoration of "probremente furnished room."

The
theater was boiling and people. The stage was still wilderness. They
were almost in darkness. Just for a powdered glass skylight open there
in the back of the stage, stripped the backdrop, very low penetrating
clarity. By dint of time, eyes accustomed to darkness, could be distinguished
from each other. She, unlike her nephew, bothered
about very few people indeed. "Make a good tea."

"I will, as you want me to, dear Alice," said Mrs. Preston. "Oh, thank you, Canon Ronder! How
good of you; ah, there! I've dropped my little bag. It's under that table. Thank you a thousand
times! And isn't it strange about Mrs. Brandon and Mr. Morris?"

"Isn't what strange?" asked Miss Ronder, regarding her guest with grim cynicism.

"Oh well--nothing really, except that every one's asking what they can find in common. They're
always together. Last Monday Aggie Combermere met her coming out of the Rectory, then Ellen
Stiles saw them in the Precincts last Sunday afternoon, and I saw them myself this morning
in the High Street."

"My dear Mrs. Preston," said Ronder, "why shouldn't they go about together?"

"No reason at all," said Mrs. Preston, blushing very prettily, as she always did when she fancied
that any one was attacking her. "I'm sure that I'm only too glad that poor Mrs. Brandon has
found a friend. My motto in life is, 'Let us all contribute to the happiness of one another
to the best of our strength.'

"Truly, that's a thing we can all do, isn't it? Life isn't too bright for some people, I can't
help thinking. And courage is the thing. After all, it isn't life that is important but simply
how brave you are.

"At least that's my poor little idea of it. But it does seem a little odd about Mrs. Brandon.
She's always kept so much to herself until now."

"You worry too much about others, dear Julia," said Miss Ronder.

"Yes, I really believe I do. Why, there's my bag gone again! Oh, how good of you, Canon! It's
under that chair. Yes. I do. But one can't help one's nature, can one? I often tell myself
that it's really no credit to me being unselfish. I was simply born that way. Poor Jack used
to say that he wished I would think of myself more! I think we were meant to share one another's
burdens. I really do. And what Mrs. Brandon can see in Mr. Morris is so odd, because really
he isn't an interesting man."

"Let me get you some more tea," said Ronder.

"No, thank you. I really must be going. I've been here an unconscionable time. Oh! there's
my handkerchief. How silly of me! Thank you so much!"

She got up and prepared to depart, looking so pretty and so helpless that it was really astonishing
that the Hermes did not appreciate her.

"Good-bye, dear Canon. No, I forbid you to come out. Oh, well, if you will. I hear everywhere
of the splendid work you're doing. Don't think it flattery, but I do think we needed you here.
What we have wanted is a message--something to lift us all up a little. It's so easy to see
nothing but the dreary round, isn't it? And all the time the stars are shining.... At least
that's how it seems to me."

The door closed; the room was suddenly silent. Miss Ronder sat without moving, her eyes staring
in front of her.

Soon Ronder returned.

Miss Ronder said nothing. She was the one human being who had power to embarrass him. She was
embarrassing him now.

"Aren't things strange?" he said. "I've seen four different people this afternoon. They have
all of their own accord instantly talked about Brandon, and abused him. Brandon is in the air.
He's in danger."

Miss Ronder looked her nephew straight between the eyes.

"Frederick," she said, "how much have you had to do with this?"

"To do with this? To do with what?"

"All this talk about the Brandons."

"I! Nothing at all."

"Nonsense. Don't tell me. Ever since you set foot in this town you've been determined that
Brandon should go. Are you playing fair?"

He got up, stood opposite her, legs apart, his hands crossed behind his broad back.

"Fair? Absolutely."

Her eyes were full of distress. "Through all these years," she said, "I've never truly known
you. All I know is that you've always got what you wanted. You're going to get what you want
now. Do it decently."

"You needn't be afraid," he said.

"I am afraid," she said. "I love you, Fred; I have always loved you. I'd hate to lose that
love. It's one of my most precious possessions."

He answered her slowly, as though he were thinking things out. "I've always told you the truth,"
he said; "I'm telling you the truth now. Of course I want Brandon to go, and of course he's
going. But I haven't to move a finger in the matter. It's all advancing without my agency.
Brandon is ruining himself. Even if he weren't, I'm quite square with him. I fought him openly
at the Chapter Meeting the other day. He hates me for it."

"And you hate him."

"Hate him? Not the least in the world. I admire and like him. If only he were in a less powerful
position and were not in my way, I'd be his best friend. He's a fine fellow--stupid, blind,
conceited, but finer made than I am. I like him better than any man in the town."

"I don't understand you"; she dropped her eyes from his face. "You're extraordinary."

He sat down again as though he recognised that the little contest was closed.

"Is there anything in this, do you think? 

Venturita drove around all day about his mother, waiting for a chance to talk without witnesses.
At dusk, when the seamstress went, mother and daughter were alone at last. Cecilia had retired
to her room dominated by the sadness that had veiled to work during the day. Dona Paula was sitting
in an armchair with eyes on the balcony, picking up the last rays of the dying light in melancholic
and reflective attitude, rare in it. He seemed to dislike hanging over his head. Venturita put the
racks in a corner and covered them with a cloth, arranged the chairs and drag Shopping at the
side seam not to hinder.

- Tell them to bring light - said Dona Paula.

- Why? - Said the girl
sitting on a low chair beside her .-- It is done.

His mother returned to squint to the balcony and was in the same melancholy attitude. After a few
moments of silence, Venturita took his hand and led her tenderly to his lips. Dona Paula turned
her head in surprise. Seldom, if ever, his youngest daughter will
had given the respectful kiss.

She smiled sweetly and took his chin between his fingers, he said:

-
Are you happy with the dress?

- Yes, mom.

- It makes a very nice
body.

As you play a bit in the chest, remain in handy.

The girl was silent.

Looking up after a moment he said, struggling to make your voice
a turning point for sure

- Tell me, Mom, what do you think of the
withdrawal of Gonzalo?

- The withdrawal of Gonzalo! - Said Mrs. head
back in amazement .-- What do you want say, child?

- Yes, the withdrawal,
because I know that is not sick.

Yesterday was up all night playing billiards in the cafe of the Navy.

- Bah, bah! Feel like laughing?

- I'm not laughing, Mom, I'm serious.

- And who told you that?

-
I know by Nieves, who told his brother.

- You may have eased the
pain at night and come out to spread a little.

- And then, why not
come today?

- Because it will come again.

- Do not believe it, Mom
... Rest assured that Cecilia Gonzalo does not want.

- Do you know
what you're saying, stupid?

Me a favor and shut up, before I get angry.

- I will be silent,
but the evidence of love is giving not great.

- You should see that!
- Said Mrs. becoming angry .-- If Gonzalo is much, Cecilia more ...
My daughter despises and Gonzalo and the Prince of Asturias, you know
... I learn what you just said, and if it is true, and I'll take my
measurements.

Dona Paula was naturally kind and gentle, kind to the poor and generous,
but had unthinking arrogance and exaggerated susceptibility of Sarrió
artisans.

- No, Mom, is not it.

Who ever said Cecilia Gonzalo despises?

- Yourself.

Why do not you then?

Venturita paused, and answered firmly:

- Because he loves me.

- Come on - smiling lady said .-- I should already understand from
the beginning that it was all a joke.

- No joke, it's the truth ...
And if you want to convince, learn ...

Pulled chest while carrying
a letter prevention, and handed.

Dona Paula stood up strongly, and shouted:

- Pronto! ... A light, soon!

Venturita picked up a box of matches was on sewing, and ignited a.

Mother and daughter were pale. It pulled the letter to light.

As read a few lines, dropped into his chair and staring with painful
expression on her daughter, said

- Ventura, what have you done?

-
Me?

Nothing - said the girl pulling the ground that the match drew to
a close.

- Is that all you like, crazy, prevent the marriage of your
sister, miserably deceive, to a scandal in the village and never be
seen?

- I have not done anything like that.

It was he who proposed to me. Is it a sin be loved?

- This time, yes - Mrs. sternly replied .-- At the first sign you should have warn. You consent
to speak otherwise than as a sister, was to betray your sister and
make you very little favor.

- Well, is - said the girl scornfully.

-
I do not be - Dona Paula replied angrily and rising .-- What have
you proposed, we, di?

... Rather, what you have proposed?

- You guess.

- Marry, right?
- Asked sarcastically.

- How wrong you are!

... Your sister's marriage will be undone ... From now I give it
to waste ... But whatever it is you, or you are free to marry Gonzalo
... or put it even more down home ...!

First, you're a brat that you should be playing with dolls and being whipped ... and although
it is not, nor your father nor I could agree that you married a man
who has miserably deceived your sister and has fooled us all ... At
least people would say is that we are killed by him our son.

That takes away, girl!

- So you want or not want - Venturita said retreating back to the door, - I marry.

Dona Paula wanted to punish the insolence, but she rushed out, grabbed
the door and gaped after, angry tone said:

- Marry Me!

Marry me! Marry me!

The next day, Gonzalo received a letter from her, saying: "Yesterday
I spoke with Mom.

It has very angry. Today I again, and hopefully yield.

Be confident. "

And indeed, that morning mother and daughter returned to have spoken in the last quarter. Was long,
and do not know what it happened. Dona Paula came after an hour with his eyes red to mourn,
touching his heart, which often suffered in the direction to his room and lay down. Ventura went
after her, calm, but pale. Called Generosa, confidant, and gave him a message for Gonzalo.
This, at nine o'clock at night, was walking front of the house Belinchón.

A few minutes later, opened the window Venturita desktop I was on the ground floor and had bars.

-
It is done - said in falsetto after the young man drew nigh.

- How?

Really? - He asked cheerfully.

- Oh, good work has cost me!

I was furious.

- What about your dad?

- Dad does not know anything, but give in too ... Go if you give in! ... The recipe can not be
more effective.

- What recipe?

- The one I used ... The thing had become so ugly that was already
decided that you do not come back closer to home.

I sent them to Tejada as a punishment.

Neither supplications nor reasons were worth anything.

Was mad with rage.

I called infamous traitor. To me, just imagine how I would! ... So I did not choice but to
appeal to the last resort ... even if he is a bit strong - adding
in voice low and upset.

- What resource? - Gonzalo asked curiously.

Venturita was silent a few moments. After ashamed replied:

- I said ... I told you and I could not get married less than now.

- What then?

- Well ... well ... adivínalo - said the girl impatiently.

Indeed, Gonzalo guessed and experienced a feeling of disgust and fear.

Stubbornly silent for some time. Venturita finally asked:

- Have you been happy?

- Yes - said dryly.

- For dispensing, boy
... Tomorrow I will say that everything was a lie ... and we finished.

-
Nothing is coming forward now.

What I think evil is the result, as you understand, but it has left
that from you.

- More than I miss you.

- By the same token I'm sorry!

-
Well, give expressions - harshly replied getting up from the windowsill,
where she sat.

Gonzalo reached out through the bars, and held by the dress.

- Wait.

The fabric rustled.

- You've already broken the dress, see?

- If you do not shoot as soon ...

And getting catch by the arm, forced
her to sit.

- Good lord! - Said the girl laughing .-- It must be
love bears.

- Do you love me? - Gonzalo said laughing too.

- No.

-
Yes.

- No.

- Give me the hand of friendship.

The girl held out her white and delicate hand, and kissed her youth
Herculean passion repeated times.

- See you tomorrow.

I'll give you news of what happens - said rising again.

Gonzalo away.

The four steps occur to him that the news had to be a reference Cecilia
received by way of his disloyal conduct, and his brow furrowed again
with painful expression.

A round with this concern crossed distracted Rúa Nueva, entered the plaza of the Navy walked along
the pier and was extended to the tip of the Pawn.

The night was calm and clear. The stars twinkled in the sky ripples
on the calm waters Bay.

The rigging of ships in it stood out quite clearly the dark blue background. Had not yet sounded
the cry of "apafogones" and they felt in some lights and some movement. The sailors, leaning
on the bulwarks, chatted before retreat to the cabin.

From time to time, facing a large English steamer anchored in the middle screamed one: "All right"
exaggerating the pronunciation: "all right", answered a tender. The cry was repeated in all
the schooners, and quechemarines pataches. It was the joke spent with the British arrived there.
But the big steamer remained silent, nodding phlegmatically with that contempt so deep that
no one better than a child knows Albion affected.

At the tip of Pawn stumbled as he took the little walker that was cool. It was one of the hottest
nights in August. Gonzalo, tormented by heat and by the idea its compromised situation, he walked
with his hat in his hand. Before reaching the end the pier, saw on the second wall a gigantic
figure.

- There is my uncle - he said.

The old sailor spent much of his life on that wall, in intimate conversation with the sea, his former
friend and companion.

For him there was the terrible secrets Ocean, now slept quietly in
his huge bed of sand, now wake up to the sky spitting mad its foam.

Could provide new safe and anticipated their anger, their faintness, their smiles, in their deepest
heart palpitations. The monster opened its liquid heart, as loyal confidant, told how he was
bored in his prison of granite, and what you feel like rushing Sometimes, witnessing the outrages
of men to rush on earth, and sweep once this foul nest. And the good gentleman would reply,
thinking of the crime that had just read:

- You're right, comrade, I, in your case, you may do so.

For all the world would Don Melchor to give their morning walks, evening
and night the tip of the Pawn.

In his wife's life when he was a cold, could be seen pointed to dispense
of these visits, and was what troubled him.

Now, unfortunately, did not have anyone holding him, a cold and everything went.

- For colds, there's nothing like the fresh air of the sea.

When from time to time suffered from the stomach, drank a couple glasses
of brine, and was fixed.

- No bleed so natural, so effective and
harmless as seawater.

I once suffered from a leg. Two ulcers were eating away the flesh
it up leaving the bone exposed.

Doctors, not only gave up for lost leg, but feared for his life. Evicted and had the audacity
to take him to the beach and bathe. For the nine bathrooms, the ulcers were closed. Imagine what
they think after this, the healing power of the sea.

Instead, he had strong dislike to the rivers.

The air of the river made him hoarse. The humidity was rheumatic pains. The fog choked him
and put him asthmatic. It was that air in them "encallejonado" he inspired an untold loathing
and contempt.

Don Melchor slept little. He got up with stars, and as he rose up to the lookout, scanned the
sky and sea, and after drawing in the head a state weather provisional day, down to fix definitively
the end of the Pawn. Provided there than once if the wind was simple vahajillo filed or if
the star was frankly or inclined to the fourth quadrant, if the face was haze or closed, if the
sea was minced or milk, how long would all this, what wind would point at noon, if the sea
​​would be thick in the afternoon or abonanzaría, etc., etc. I could not take the chocolate if I
had not made such comments.

And indeed, although this seems a hobby, téngola for less foolish than up of bed to scrutinize
the face of the neighbor, if it is clean or dirty, happy or loom
blurry if you eat or fast, whether sleeping or sailing, whether strike
or work, how long it stays at home and what course to take when you
leave.

Gonzalo moved into second wall with an irresistible desire to relieve the chest, and make his
uncle aware of what was happening. And why the sudden and severe condition it did not fit
very romantic confidences. But the timing was critical and accurate. Don Melchor, with the weight
of the years used to bend a little body forward, seeing the approach
of a man to him, he straightened up.

Because the effort was that nobody had noticed for its decline and
her male deputy impregnable.

- Is that you, Gonzalillo?

- The same,
man.

- Miracle!

You like to see more balls rolling waves ivory.

- No, today I have
not played billiards.

I am sad, worried ... and wanted to talk to you are a serious matter,
to see what he advises.

Don Melchor looked at him with surprise.

- A serious matter?

- Yes
... Let's see, man: you would marry a woman who would not?

- What
a question!

Marriage at my age is a hole in the funds, dear.

- But if young,
marry?

...

- Never.

- Well, Uncle ... I do not want to Cecilia.

- Do not want to Cecilia?
- Stunned the knight said.

It should be noted that Don Melchor was a blind love, almost worship the promised his nephew.
For him, the creature was sacred. Since Gonzalo noticed her and he knew, made the subject
of persistent observation was the same as if recognizing the hull of a ship before the trees. Found
it good, quiet, intelligent and industrious, and felt intense bitter joy only by the news
that the couple would not go to live with him. Recently visited the home of Belinchón, but when
the girl stumbled into the street, never left to stop it, so gallant
showing and expressive as he had never seen anyone.

- Did not want
it? - Repeated .-- And why not want it, dunce?

- Do not know.

I made superhuman efforts to collect love, and I did not succeed.

- And now you remember that? A month before you get married? Come on, Gonzalo, you have to give
carina on the head.

- It is an atrocity ... I understand ... but I can not bring myself to be miserable life.

- Woe!

And flames Unfortunately, great zarramplín, marry a girl so good and so beautiful that no one
in Sarrió you reach the soles of shoes?

Gonzalo could not help but smile.

- Cecilia is a good girl, worthy of marrying a better man than me
... but beautiful Uncle ...

- Beautiful, yes, beautiful, idiot! -
Angrily exclaimed M. de las Cuevas .-- Can you studs to an angel?

The veteran was (though the assertion raised eyebrows) in the age
at which feels better women's poetry, which is the exquisite sensitivity,
resignation, tenderness, sacrifice and not available ephemeral form,
as judged divestment impetuous youth.

- No riñamos for it.

- Yes
reñiremos ... I do not want to speak to me again that way ... Cecilia
Go, go!

- Well, as I confess that Cecilia is a very pretty girl ...
but ...

- But what?

- But I can not love her ... because I want
another.

- What the hell are you saying thousand there, boy! - Don
Melchor uttered by the arm holding his nephew and shaking.

- I can
not help it, man.

I love to her sister's neck Ventura.

- Are you at your trial or
between two stools, rapacious?

- I'm serious ... I love her, and
she loves me.

- You think that this says it all? - Said the old man
increasingly angry .-- Do you think and can miss a sacred commitment?

Do you think that this can be left exposed to a young a mockery of
the population?

Do you think there are parents that authorize such infamy?

- Uncle - Gonzalo said gently - before daring to tell you what just
hear, things have happened that forced me to take this step.

My relationships are Venturita formal.

Her mother knows and has approved, and this time also his father
must have news of them.

- What about the authority?

- I'm sure.

Don Melchor left arm of his nephew who was taken, and put his hand
to his forehead.

Was a long time without speaking.

Said after word slowly and melancholy tone:

- Good is ... Nothing I can do to avoid such a shame ... It is a shame!
- Added powered .-- You are an adult, and although they were not,
in these matters intenvendría not ever.

- Are you angry?

- Nor can
here angry.

Sorry only.

I feel sorry for her because I have to collect it baby ... and even more sorry for you, Gonzalo.
The man who misses his word God can not help ... Were already on
board a boat insurance, transport, white wood While bleeding, with
the funds lined, sturdy trees and rigging clean and simple and leave
it to embark on a lighter and trouser ... Enjoy your meal you make.

But remember account, child, that the journey is long, wide and wild
sea, so is prosperity now, in an instant becomes surf cam, the wind
does not always chilly, and when it gets worse, it gets really heavy.

So not worth aloft workmanship or paintings on the touchline, but wood, lots of wood. Dame seams,
and give you miles.

Bunting is little point in leaving port if the hull can not handle
the rig ... You know ... I liked Cecilia I am very sorry to say the
same about his sister ... This is not speaking against it.

Or know enough, or My responsibility is to do, but I can and I must say my feelings, but never
mind of them ...

- Oh, man! ...

- Nothing, nothing, dear: when a boy falls on his head a suestazo of these is jump must lower the sail
sheets and let bowline-off. You are scorched apparently ... well, I refresh ... But keep in
mind that neither have you safe course, no work as a gentleman.

- Uncle!

- Clearer than I, water, dear. If you have managed to overcome the resistance of parents and if
you've saved the trouble, will not achieve that make white black,
not to make a bad action good ... Pica pica long cables and sail.

I am old now, and I have hope not to watch you run the storms that
have to fall on you ... But if God would give me that punishment,
if ever, for my sins, I saw you run a capella and drinking water by
overboard ... feel, my son, have no more strength to throw you a rope.

The old man's voice had moved as he uttered these last words. Gonzalo felt apretársele heart. Stubbornly
silent for a while.

After Don Melchor said:

- Are you coming to dinner, Gonzalito?

-
Now I have no appetite, man, there go a little later.

- Well, so
far - sadly gave Mr de las Cuevas.

And he walked slowly toward ground, losing a bit in the shadows.

Gonzalo was as I was, face down on the parapet of the wall, watching the sea that beat lightly.
The waves, after crashing into the stone with light, hollow boom,
fell running on the other, and produced sound similar to a curtain
that unfolds.



"Mother," she said, hesitating, and then speaking timidly, "is father all right?"

"All right, dear?"

"Yes. He doesn't look well. His forehead is all flushed, and I overheard some one at the Sampsons'
say the other day that he wasn't well really, that he must take great care of himself. Ought
he to?"

"Ought he what?"

"To take great care of himself."

"What nonsense!" Mrs. Brandon turned back to her book impatiently. "There never was any one
so strong and healthy."

"He's always worrying about something. It's his nature."

"Yes, I suppose so."

Joan vanished. Mrs. Brandon sat, staring before her, her mind running with the clock--tick-tick-tick-tick--and
then suddenly jumping at the mellow liquid gurgle that it sometimes gave. Would her husband
come in and say good-night?

How she had grown, during these last weeks, to loathe his kiss! He would stand behind her chair,
bending his great body over her, his red face would come down, then the whiff of tobacco, then
the rough pressure on her cheek, the hard, unmeaning contact of his lips and hers. His beautiful
eyes would stare beyond her, absently into the room. Beautiful! Why, yes, they were famous
eyes, famous the diocese through. How well she remembered those years, long ago, when they
had seemed to speak to her of every conceivable tenderness and sweetness, and how, when he
thus had bent over her, she had stretched up her hand and found the buttons of his waistcoat
and pushed her fingers in, stroking his shirt and feeling his heart thump, thump, and so warm
beneath her touch. In its
best result, leave this earthly world (Don Benigno was very fond of this adjective), and run
to surrender to Jesus, to enter the delightful grotto of St. John speaks de la Cruz, and left
there forgotten your care. I knew him a happy little corner, a true bit of heaven, where they
enjoyed early delight God has in store their servants. The corner was a Carmelite convent that
had just been founded in the suburbs of the town, and which was the largest and staunch protector
lieutenant. Certainly this was a bit bland Don Segis, the chaplain of the Augustinians, but dared
not show it, because it suited him be wrong with your partner.

The suggestion produced effect sometimes, sometimes not. Rare gift dropped in Benigno ears of
old. Perhaps because they calculated that he loved Jesus and two of fifteen that thirty, or
because they find them more reluctant and distrustful than girls. Anyway, that spiritual hunting
was interesting episodes. On one occasion the lieutenant was victim of aggression of a young
man who had pulled his sister to the convent. In another, after searching for a dowry for
a girl and to have provided clothing, future Christ escaped the overnight with an official
tailor. Don Benigno used to drive himself to the house wives of the bridegroom. When there were
difficulties to overcome by the family, behaved with the skill and daring of a consummate seducer.
Organized and carried out the abduction of the virgin with a shrewdness that wanted it for
themselves philanderers many mundane.

Took this pretext Alvaro Peña to speak on a press certain priest fan to "hunt doves." Now, as
we know the fans of Don Benigno for rearing chicks, the newsletter went directly to him and evil
intent. So readers understand. Discussed and laughed and I had some loose harmful.

To be in that ridiculous way, a toilet, having a capable and bilious temperament, like all artists,
terribly angry.

- Did you read that tabloid Don Rosendo? - Asked for the night at the Morana Don Segis. It should
be noted that since the first press release did not return irreligious
Don Benigno otherwise call the Lighthouse Sarrió.

- Yes, I read this
morning at the home of Graells.

- What do you think of that indignity?

-
What? - Calmly asked the chaplain.

- Man, do not you read the outrages
they say about me?

Don Segis raised his glass to eye level, looked closely at the golden
liquid, it to his lips and drank pause.

After coughing and straining a bit, and cleaned mouth with a bandanna,
said gravely:

- Phs ... the intention is not good to say ... But
it is better to take things in stride.

Nothing comes forward with altered.

The lieutenant, who expected to participate Segis gift of his indignation,
he received a further blow, and fell, swallowing his anger.

This time it was after that the chaplain's silent enemy of the Augustinians by the unjustified
preference granted to the convent Don Benigno rising.

The lieutenant then turned to Mr. Anselmo and Don Juan the Salado. These were demonstrate attention
upset by the newsletter, though without either extreme. We know that this is not consistent with the
nature of that warm, patriarchal meeting.

But next Thursday, Alvaro Peña Don Benigno rest left and "got it" with the chaplain of the nuns,
it published a sketch in verse, which was very funny words the marriage
of the glasses of gin with glasses of white wine.

He touched so angry Don Segis, and take it easy Don Benigno. But the tranquility of this was apparent,
and only to take revenge on Don Segis. In fact, his wounds still dripping blood. So, soon to
complete the reconciliation, putting both with unusual zeal to remove the skin from all and each
of those who wrote in 'Don Rosendo scrap of paper ", beginning with this, its illustrious founder,
and ending with the owner of the printing press. They are not hiding the author of chufletas was
Alvaro Peña. But as it had always been a fiend for a Mason, able to drink the blood all the clergy
of Sarrió, not repeated, he left early to Sinforoso mainly primed.


"Of course you count," he answered impatiently, irritated by the pressure of her fingers on
his coat. "You'll see plenty of me. But you can't possibly expect me to live here. I've completely
wasted my beautiful young life so far--now apparently you want me to waste the rest of it."

"Then," she said, coming nearer to him and dropping her voice, "take me with you." But to study the second year of theology, these
gentlemen of the seminary received a letter written elegantly. In it they expressed he did not feel
called by God to an ecclesiastical career, and that before being a bad priest preferred to learn
the trade from his father or embarking for America. Ended up pleading earnest words that let
you change the theology of the law, to which thought inclined, and this does not give so much
to the chagrin of his father. Benefactors agreed demand. And Sinforoso column was made after the
state rather than the Church, as desired the Perinolo. As the race continued with laws and awards
outstanding at the beginning, Notable later and finally approved, Smear some articulejos Lancia
in newspapers. With this thought in the case of letting the hair grow and put glasses on his
nose. So unveiled its new graduate Sarrió with the aura of glory around whom also made his
debut, and even fought battles in the press. He had joined in the Liberal Party's most advanced
and denying their ancestry. With this, his father was strongly disagreeable. If you enter the
house left debióse to the intercession of the mother. Not speak or give him a penny for their
expenses, limited to consenting him sleep under their roof and eat the ration. After several
months the shoes were skinned and was sorry to see her clothes. But all very well made up for
the lawyer with the packing and gravity the appearance and graceful in his bearing. He spent
the morning reading in bed, afternoons and evening in the café loudly discussing what he read
in the morning. The neighbors do not loved him but respected much your artwork and talent.

-
Who has asked for the floor? - Asked Don Rosendo.

- Suarez ... Sinforoso Suarez - said the young man leaning his breast
over the railing.

- You've got, Mr. Smith.

The young man coughed and put his fingers on both hands through his hair, leaving it hollow and stirred,
put on glasses that brought hanging from a cord and said:

- Gentlemen.

The firm, calm intonation that gave the word, and made long pause
after ensuring glasses on his nose and walking a look of a great man
in the competition, imposed silence and respect.

- After the brilliant
sentence just made my dear friend illustrated assistant of the port,
Mr. Peña (the helper, but has not spoken with Smith more than three
Sometimes in life, leans grateful.

Sarrió respectable neighbors learn that there more prayers to the Lord's Prayer, the Hail Mary
and the other prayed by the Church), will be well convinced the assembly of generous and patriotic
purpose which has inspired the promoters of this meeting. Nothing big, nothing so beautiful,
nothing so sublime as people gathered to see a to discuss the highest and dearest interests of
his life. Ah, gentlemen! to listen just now to Mr. Peña, I imagined being in the Agora of Athens
deciding, as a citizen free, including free citizens as well as I, the destiny of my country.
I imagined hear the word strong and burning one of those great speakers who illustrated the Hellenic
people ... Because the eloquence of my dear friend Mr. Peña has a lot of the passion that characterized
snatched Demosthenes, the prince of speakers and enough also on the fluidity and elegance that shone
in the speeches of Pericles. (Pause hand glasses.) is alive and vibrant as Cleon, is sensible
and prudent as that of Aristides; have specific and serious tones as the corners, and notes
as pleasing to the ear Isocrates. Ah, gentlemen! I too, like the eloquent speaker who preceded
me in speak, wanted the town where I first saw the light of day, wake up progress to life,
the life of freedom and justice ... Sarrió!
 He wants you badly. He mayn't show it exactly as you want it. Men aren't demonstrative
as women are, but he'd be miserable if you went away. He loves you in his own fashion, which
is just as good as yours, only different. You must never leave him, mother, do you hear?"

She saw that she was defeated, entirely and completely. She cried to the Powers:

"You've refused me what I ask. I go my own way, then."

She got up, kissed him on the forehead and said: "I daresay you're right, Falk. Forget what
I've said. I didn't mean most of it. Good-night, dear."

She went out, quietly closing the door behind her.

 Falk did not sleep at all that night. This was only one of many sleepless
nights, but it was the worst of them. The night was warm, and a faint dim
colour lingered behind the treetops of the garden beyond his open window. 

These strong words were greeted with an explosion of joy for the seamstresses.

- Do not get mad, Pisces, leave ... Have you taken a walk on Romero? ... I'm glad.

- I got hooked on the charrette with Linda - said the centaur, with a horrible grimace of disgust
aimed at the sympathetic Valentina .-- If you saw, poor lightning,
how to rise! I zis, zis! with the whip, and he bread, bread! davit
on the board. I turned to the stable and I put the board under a clove.
 A bar of
golden light broken by the squares and patterns of the dark trees struck
the air.

The shock of his mother's announcement had been terrific. It was not only the surprise of it,
it was the sudden light that it flung upon his own case. 

This was a possession soon located a mile from the village, where the genius of Don Rosendo supported
by the money, had the opportunity to develop freely and to Wonder fruit. When purchased, more
than twenty years, constituíanla few meadows and a forest where grazing cows, and sang the redwing,
finches and blackbirds. Don Rosendo began to banish this Indian colony and replace it with another
foreigner. Cattle country was banned by bringing in another place in Switzerland. With equal
severity were thrown at shots of the trees, the old birds to hang a number of cages with birds
rare and exotic, which croaked miserably throughout the year at sunrise. The spirit entrepreneurial
and reformist Rosendo, did not stop even in the animal kingdom. With the same boldly went to
the plant, and made entirely change the face of those fields. Gradually, spurred on by the ax
and saw, were disappearing and large chestnut copudos broad leaves and fresh with their torsos
twisted rough skin, the giant oaks chopped leaves were renewed more than three hundred times,
the walnut trees that look like huge basil plants, the juicy fruit trees, whose branches are
bent to leave delicately fruit on the ground, and other tree roots and respectability in the
country. In their place were planted Washingtonian wellingtoni, Araucaria excelsa, and many
other foreign chaste tree, mostly belonging to the conifer family.
 His desire, beyond
everything else in life, was to be honest: to pretend to no emotion that he did not truly feel,
to see exactly how he felt about life, and to stand up before it unafraid and uncowed. Honesty
seemed to him the greatest quality in life; that was why he had been attracted to Ronder. And
yet life seemed to be for ever driving him into false positions. Even now he was contemplating
running away with this girl. Until to-night he had fancied that he was only contemplating it,
but his conversation with his mother had shown him how near he was to a decision. He brought the back loose hair and was wearing Cute embroidered
slippers. He came to say goodbye to go to bed. He approached his mother and gave a kiss on the
cheek, making, meanwhile, malicious grin on his sister, Gonzalo could not see.

- Well, good night - he said extending a hand.

- Good night - said he looking ecstatic, with a sort of rapture that
go unnoticed by the girl.

I was going to retire, but a feeling of coquetry brought her back
from the door and ask Cecilia:

- Where do you put the shoe?

I had to come with flip flops for not finding ...

At the same time
showed his little foot.

- Then there is, in the drawer of the nightstand.

-
If you knew what a dream I have! - Moving further and said placing
a hand on his head his sister .-- Do you know how you remove this
- he said smiling.

Gonzalo examined it carefully. It was really a perfect creature.

The more closely is observed, the more they admired the unique parts that he was endowed. The
epidermis was smooth and shiny as satin, a faded pink color, the mouth moist and fresh red
lips discovered somewhat larger than the opening two rows of tiny teeth and equal; golden
hair, silky, abundant. His only blemish was the height. If her mother had no one would put a repair,
except, of course, her friends.

Noting that examined not just leave.

Spun round to it saw it everywhere, capricious positions adopted, affected, directed questions
irrelevant to his sister, laughing for no reason, covered it with kisses and rubbed without
consideration.

- Let, Ventura.

What you're frisky today! - Exclaimed that with his frank smile kindly,
trying to free herself.

- Go, go, to bed - said Dona Paula.

- I.

But
instead of going back to be embraced Cecilia, the tickled to take
every movement to say it in his ear:

- How are you enjoying, naughty!

Do not throw those big eyes, woman, you are going to stun .-- Farewell
farewell, gentlemen - concluded by saying aloud ...-- And leave something
for tomorrow, huh?

- What a fool! - Cecilia said, blushing.

 The old mill, the group
of trees beside it, the low dam over which the water fell with its own peculiar drunken gurgle,
the pathway with its gritty stony surface, so that it seemed to grind its teeth in protest
at every step that you took, on the left the town piled high behind you with the Cathedral
winged and dominant and supreme, the cool sloping fields beyond the river, the dark bend of
the wood cutting the horizon--these things were his history and he was theirs.

There were many other places to which they might have gone, other times that they might have
chosen, but circumstances and accident had found for them always this same background. Occasionally,
the cross next to a lady, the said :--«¡ You so pretty, Julia! " Or, "those eyes are killing
me" or "As there is not Torcuata Sarrio" or words to happy I turned on the style in pure joy the
maid. But let it go, never missed a extent of its severity. Because he knew that this was one
of his outstanding qualities and made him more appealing to the fairer sex.

Valentina had long expected. But the room was already populated by ladies, and the orchestra hypocritical
metal had performed two dances, but the gentle seamstress had made its appearance in dance.
Sounded again the strains of a mazurka. The gilded youth turned to closer the long form of the
daughters of the people. But our Pablito, faithful to his own, remained inactive looking cross
in front of him fast partners.

After the mazurka he was struck by the idea that Val would not come. The strained relations
who mediated between her and the author of his day, especially when he had a few glasses of wine
into the body, made it very plausible.

A few minutes later, was fully Pablito convinced.

Is your state of mind coincided with the arrival of the blond Nieves in the classroom. Its eyes met.
The poor girl, abandoned villainously did not even two months smiled sweetly. This sweetness
was precisely the cause of his misfortune.

The handsome Pablito soon tired of sweet women.

However, smiled back, and passing at his side, told Mathematics:

- You're going to attack bulls, Nieves.

The embroidery was carrying a red handkerchief tied around his waist. This sentence of his former
lover caused her effect so alive that does not know what to say. He smiled again and said, ah
... Yes ... No! and some other particles that do not remember, and
wanted to faint with excitement.

In the next round asked him to dance with him the first polka. The first, second, third, and
polkas all touched in the universe, Nieves said the shaking itself came out from his lips.
After he committed the polka, Paul felt a great regret :--«¡ What fool, what I'm gross! What if now
comes Valentina? "

But failed. The orchestra began a prelude to the opening stages. The young man, without removing
Eye of the door, hugged the waist of the embroiderer, throwing her in rapid flight the room.
Other young people, no less swift, coming from the opposite side, and clear! first shock, then another
and then another. These meetings were an attraction in those dances. The Young, who persona overwhelmed
hairstyle or forced to falter, instead of feeling anger, laughing out loud with pleasure vivid.
Pablo and Nieves, who could not take four steps without encounter
with another couple, were truly spellbound.

However, the young, always passing through the front door, I felt
a slight tremor in the legs, and hastened away from it.

When the orchestra was silent, took his family into a corner of the
room, and there stood a moment mingled.

Pablito felt burning in the ashes of their love one spark of sympathy
for this girl so happy, so peaceful, so loving.

- I had no desire
to dance with you, Nieves - he said as he wiped the sweat with a handkerchief.

-
And I with you, Paul.

- Do you?

The girl blushed.

- Have you forgotten you yet?

- So much time passed!

- You're right ... But look how I have not
forgotten.

- On Wednesday I saw him ... I saw you on the road of
snow ... Going on a white horse ...

- It was a mare.

- I thought
you pulled.

- Throw me! - Pablito said frowning .-- Loosen a little
girl!

 Well, that's for
you to say. If you think it harms your prospects being with me you needn't see me. I've my
own prospects to think of. I'm not going to have any man ashamed of me."

"You're right to speak of it, and we're right to think of it," said Falk. "It isn't my prospects
that I've got to think about, but it's my father I wouldn't like to hurt. If we go away together
there'll be a great deal of talk here, and it will all fall on my father."

"Well, then," she said, tossing her head and taking her hand away from his, "don't come. I'm
not asking you. As for your father, he's that proud----" She stopped suddenly. "No. I'm saying
nothing about that. You care for him, and you're right to. As far as that goes, we needn't
go together; you can come up later and join me."

When she said that, he knew that he couldn't bear the thought of her going alone, and that
he had all along been determined in his thought that she should not go alone.

"If you'd say you loved me," he said, suddenly bending towards her, "I'd never let you out
of my sight again."

"Oh, yes, you would," she said; "you don't know whether you do love me. Many's the time you
think you don't. And I don't know whether I love you. Sometimes I think I do. What's love,
anyway? I dunno. I think sometimes I'm not made to feel that way towards any one. Then both the converted Cecilia. This had not raised head of the frame.

-
Snow - Paul replied without hesitation, and in the same tone of falsetto.

-
I knew it, and I applaud you taste - Gonzalo laughed .-- What skin
satin '... What teeth!

- And to walk!

Pasi-short, you know?

Both looked to the embroidery.

This raised his head, and realizing that it was her I grimaced with his tongue.

- Come on, it does not speak in his ear - "Dona Paula with susceptibility characterizing glassy Village
women.

- Let you, ma'am - Nieves said .-- They are talking about me: do not take away the taste.

- Of course, Paul would make me aware of certain red lips, a certain
transparency Skin, hair ormolu ...

- Valentina, then talking about
you - blushing Nieves said playing in the thigh with his partner.

-
What a joke!

Do not worry, girl. If you know you're the prettiest! - Said the other visible chopped.

- Peace, peace, ladies! - Truth .-- Gonzalo said Paul began talking of the perfections Nieves, but
it is also true that she would continue with all other, if not would have stopped ... Is not
that, Paul?

- Of course, had to continue with Valentina ...

This raised his head and looked at him with mocking scowl that was
funny character to his face.

- Be careful, Nieves, that these gentlemen
are out of sight.

Paul, ignoring the interruption, continued:

- After Teresa and Encarnacion, Elvira and Generous.

Venturita also speak (for put it, of course, by the feet of the horses).

Cecilia no, because it is committed, and some would also say my lady
Dona Paula, that, without offending anyone, is the most beautiful
of all.

- What a rascal! - Said it admired the grace of his son.

Paul had risen from his chair and hugged his mother with effusion.

- Remove, remove, flatterer! - "She laughed.

- Go loosening his pocket, Mom - Venturita said.

- You see!

Houndstooth ever - said the young man angrily, turning her head his
sister, while she laughed maliciously without lifting his frame.

-
Many have worked - Gonzalo said softly, sitting next to his girlfriend.

-
So, so - Cecilia said fixing her large eyes full of light.

- A lot,
yes, yesterday I had this pink embroidery ... I say, I think it's
pink ...

- It's jasmine.

- Neither the two leaves.

- Bah!

That's nothing.

- What is it you're embroidering?

Cecilia continued to move the needle blank.

- What is it that overboard?
- Gonzalo said aloud, the higher, thinking that he had not heard.

-
A sheet ... Shut up! - Said the young woman lifting her eyes a little
to the seamstresses and returning to bring them down quickly. Falk said, and settled down into one of the big leather arm-chairs, produced
a pipe from his pocket and slowly filled it.

The Archdeacon went on writing, muttering to himself, biting the end of his quill pen. But were unsuccessful in all instances. Maza insisted
on staying in the chair with an insistence chickened proud to excite you to rise. Alvaro Peña then
dropped him, but after a long struggle had to retire rebuffed.


