A deserter had come over from the German side a week before and told them that cylinders of
poison gas had been laid in the front trenches, but no one believed him or paid any attention
to his tale. War was then, in the Englishman's opinion, a gentleman's game, the royal sport,
and poison was prohibited by the Hague rules. But the Germans were not playing the game according
to the rules, so the British soldiers were strangled in their own trenches and fell easy victims
to the advancing foe. Within half an hour after the gas was turned on 80 per cent. of the opposing
troops were knocked out. The Canadians, with wet handkerchiefs over their faces, closed in
to stop the gap, but if the Germans had been prepared for such success they could have cleared
the way to the coast. But after such trials the Germans stopped the use of free chlorine and
began the preparation of more poisonous gases. In some way that may not be revealed till the
secret history of the war is published, the British Intelligence Department obtained a copy
of the lecture notes of the instructions to the German staff giving details of the new system
of gas warfare to be started in December. Among the compounds named was phosgene, a gas so
lethal that one part in ten thousand of air may be fatal. The antidote for it is hexamethylene
tetramine. This is not something the soldier--or anybody else--is accustomed to carry around
with him, but the British having had a chance to cram up in advance on the stolen lecture notes
were ready with gas helmets soaked in the reagent with the long name.

The Germans rejoiced when gas bombs took the place of bayonets because this was a field in
which intelligence counted for more than brute force and in which therefore they expected to
be supreme. As usual they were right in their major premise but wrong in their conclusion,
owing to the egoism of their implicit minor premise. It does indeed give the advantage to skill
and science, but the Germans were beaten at their own game, for by the end of the war the United
States was able to turn out toxic gases at a rate of 200 tons a day, while the output of Germany
or England was only about 30 tons. A gas plant was started at Edgewood, Maryland, in November,
1917. By March it was filling shell and before the war put a stop to its activities in the
fall it was producing 1,300,000 pounds of chlorine, 1,000,000 pounds of chlorpicrin, 1,300,000
pounds of phosgene and 700,000 pounds of mustard gas a month.

Chlorine, the first gas used, is unpleasantly familiar to every one who has entered a chemical
laboratory or who has smelled the breath of bleaching powder. It is a greenish-yellow gas made
from common salt. The Germans employed it at Ypres by laying cylinders of the liquefied gas
in the trenches, about a yard apart, and running a lead discharge pipe over the parapet. When
the stop cocks are turned the gas streams out and since it is two and a half times as heavy
as air it rolls over the ground like a noisome mist. It works best when the ground slopes gently
down toward the enemy and when the wind blows in that direction at a rate between four and
twelve miles an hour. But the wind, being strictly neutral, may change its direction without
warning and then the gases turn back in their flight and attack their own side, something that
rifle bullets have never been known to do.

Because free chlorine would not stay put and was dependent on the favor of the wind for its
effect, it was later employed, not as an elemental gas, but in some volatile liquid that could
be fired in a shell and so released at any particular point far back of the front trenches.

The most commonly used of these compounds was phosgene, which, as the reader can see by inspection
of its formula, COCl{2}, consists of chlorine (Cl) combined with carbon monoxide (CO), the
cause of deaths from illuminating gas. These two poisonous gases, chlorine and carbon monoxide,
when mixed together, will not readily unite, but if a ray of sunlight falls upon the mixture
they combine at once. For this reason John Davy, who discovered the compound over a hundred
years ago, named it phosgene, that is, "produced by light." The same roots recur in hydrogen,
so named because it is "produced from water," and phosphorus, because it is a "light-bearer."

In its modern manufacture the catalyzer or instigator of the combination is not sunlight but
porous carbon. I wrote to her friend, if they
give me such a rose plants. With the help of a man both of us knows, she received the plant,
and this spring it was me in a pot, very sent well packed and full of meaning, from England.


Phosgene is a gas that may be condensed easily to a liquid by cooling it down to 46 degrees
Fahrenheit. A mixture of three-quarters chlorine with one-quarter phosgene has been found most
effective. By itself phosgene has an inoffensive odor somewhat like green corn and so may fail
to arouse apprehension until a toxic concentration is reached. But even small doses have such
an effect upon the heart action for days afterward that a slight exertion may prove fatal.

The compound manufactured in largest amount in America was chlorpicrin. This, like the others,
is not so unfamiliar as it seems. As may be seen from its formula, CCl{3}NO{2}, it is formed
by joining the nitric acid radical (NO{2}), found in all explosives, with the main part of
chloroform (HCCl{3}). This is not quite so poisonous as phosgene, but it has the advantage
that it causes nausea and vomiting. The soldier so affected is forced to take off his gas mask
and then may fall victim to more toxic gases sent over simultaneously.

Chlorpicrin is a liquid and is commonly loaded in a shell or bomb with 20 per cent. of tin
chloride, which produces dense white fumes that go through gas masks. It is made from picric
acid (trinitrophenol), one of the best known of the high explosives, by treatment with chlorine.
The chlorine is obtained, as it is in the household, from common bleaching powder, or "chloride
of lime." This is mixed with water to form a cream in a steel still 18 feet high and 8 feet
in diameter. A solution of calcium picrate, that is, the lime salt of picric acid, is pumped
in and as the reaction begins the mixture heats up and the chlorpicrin distils over with the
steam. When the distillate is condensed the chlorpicrin, being the heavier liquid, settles
out under the layer of water and may be drawn off to fill the shell.

