[6] Second: Everyone acknowledges God and is conjoined with Him according to the goodness of
his life. All who know something of religion can know God; from information or from the memory
they can also speak about God, and some may also think about Him from the understanding. But
this only brings about presence if a man does not live rightly, for despite it all he can turn
away from God and towards hell, and this takes place if he lives wickedly. Only those who live
rightly can acknowledge God with the heart, and these the Lord turns away from hell and towards
Himself according to the goodness of their life. For these alone love God; for in doing what
comes from Him they love what is divine. The precepts of His law are divine things from Him.
They are God because He is His own proceeding divine. As this is to love God, the Lord says:

He who keeps my commandments is he who loves me . . . But he who does not keep my commandments
does not love me (Jn 14: 21, 24).

[7] Here is the reason why there are two tables of the Decalog, one having reference to God
and the other to man. God works unceasingly that man may receive what is in His table, but
if man does not do what he is bidden in his own table he does not receive with acknowledgment
of heart what is in God's table, and if he does not receive this he is not conjoined. The two
tables were joined, therefore, to be one and are called the tables of the covenant; covenant
means conjunction. One acknowledges God and is conjoined to Him in accord with the goodness
of his life because this good is like the good in the Lord and consequently comes from the
Lord. So when man is in the good of life there is conjunction. The contrary takes place with
evil of life; it rejects the Lord. That this is good of life or living rightly is fully shown
in Doctrine of Life for the New Jerusalem, from beginning to end. To this I will only add that
if you do good aplenty, build churches for instance, adorn them and fill them with offerings,
spend money lavishly on hospitals and hostels, give alms daily, aid widows and orphans, diligently
observe the sanctities of worship, indeed think and speak and preach about them as from the
heart, and yet do not shun evils as sins against God, all those good deeds are not goodness.
They are either hypocritical or done for merit, for evil is still deep in them. Everyone's
life pervades all that he does. Goods become good only by the removal of evil from them. Plainly,
then, shunning evils because they are contrary to religion and thus to God is living rightly.

[9] Fourth: These are factors common to all religions, and anyone can be saved by them. To
acknowledge God, and to refrain from evil because it is contrary to God, are the two acts that
make religion to be religion. If one is lacking, it cannot be called religion, for to acknowledge
God and to do evil is a contradiction; so it is, too, to do good and yet not acknowledge God;
one is impossible apart from the other. The Lord has provided that there should be some religion
almost everywhere and that these two elements should be in it, and has also provided that everyone
who acknowledges God and refrains from doing evil because it is against God shall have a place
in heaven. For heaven as a whole is like one man whose life or soul is the Lord. In that heavenly
man are all things to be found in a natural man with the difference which obtains between the
heavenly and the natural.

[10] It is a matter of common knowledge that in the human being there are not only forms organized
of blood vessels and nerve fibres, but also skins, membranes, tendons, cartilages, bones, nails
and teeth. These have a smaller measure of life than those organized forms, which they serve
as ligaments, coverings or supports. For all these entities to be in the heavenly humanity,
which is heaven, it cannot be made up of human beings all of one religion, but of men of many
religions. Therefore all who make these two universals of the church part of their lives have
a place in this heavenly man, that is, heaven, and enjoy happiness each in his measure. More
on the subject may be seen above (n. 254).

[11] That these two are primary in all religion is evident from the fact that they are the
two which the Decalog teaches. The Decalog was the first of the Word, promulgated by Jehovah
from Mount Sinai by a living voice, and also inscribed on two tables of stone by the finger
of God. Then, placed in the ark, the Decalog was called Jehovah, and it made the holy of holies
in the tabernacle and the shrine in the temple of Jerusalem; all things in each were holy only
on account of it. Much more about the Decalog in the ark is to be had from the Word, which
is cited in Doctrine of Life for the New Jerusalem (nn. 53-61). To that I will add this. From
the Word we know that the ark with the two tables in it on which the Decalog was written was
captured by the Philistines and placed in the temple of Dagon in Ashdod; that Dagon fell to
the ground before it, and afterward his head, together with the palms of the hands, torn from
his body, lay on the temple threshold; that the people of Ashdod and Ekron to the number of
many thousands were smitten with hemorrhoids and their land was ravaged by mice; that on the
advice of the chiefs of their nation, the Philistines made five golden hemorrhoids, five golden
mice and a new cart, and on this placed the ark with the golden hemorrhoids and mice beside
it; with two cows that lowed before the cart along the way, they sent the ark back to the children
of Israel and by them cows and cart were offered in sacrifice (1 Sa 5 and 6).

[12] To state now what all this signified: the Philistines signified those who are in faith
separated from charity; Dagon signified that religiosity; the hemorrhoids by which they were
smitten signified natural loves which when severed from spiritual love are unclean, and the
mice signified the devastation of the church by falsification of truth. The new cart on which
the Philistines sent back the ark signified a new but still natural doctrine (chariot in the
Word signifies doctrine from spiritual truths), and the cows signified good natural affections.
Hemorrhoids of gold signified natural loves purified and made good, and the golden mice signified
an end to the devastation of the church by means of good, for in the Word gold signifies good.
The lowing of the kine on the way signified the difficult conversion of the lusts of evil of
the natural man into good affections. That cows and cart were offered up as a burnt offering
signified that so the Lord was propitiated.

[13] This is how what is told historically is understood spiritually. Gather all into a single
conception and make the application. That those who are in faith severed from charity are represented
by the Philistines, see Doctrine of the New Jerusalem about Faith (nn. 49-54), and that the
ark was the most holy thing of the church because of the Decalog enclosed in it, see Doctrine
of Life for the New Jerusalem (nn. 53-61).

327. (iii) Man himself is in fault if he is not saved. As soon as he hears it any rational
man acknowledges the truth that evil cannot issue from good nor good from evil, for they are
opposites; consequently only good comes of good and only evil of evil. When this truth is acknowledged
this also is: that good can be turned into evil not by a good but by an evil recipient; for
any form changes into its own nature what flows into it (see above, n. 292). Inasmuch as the
Lord is good in its very essence or good itself, plainly evil cannot issue from Him or be produced
by Him, but good can be turned into evil by a recipient subject whose form is a form of evil.
Such a subject is man as to his proprium. This constantly receives good from the Lord and constantly
turns it into the nature of its own form, which is one of evil. It follows that man is in fault
if he is not saved. Evil is indeed from hell but as man receives it from hell as his and appropriates
it to himself, it is the same whether one says that evil is from man or from hell. But whence
there is an appropriation of evil until finally religion perishes will be told in this order:

1. Every religion declines and comes to an end in the course of time. 2. It does so through
the inversion of God's image in man. 3. This takes place through a continual increase of hereditary
evil over the generations. 4. Nevertheless the Lord provides that everyone may be saved. 5.
It is also provided that a new church shall succeed in place of the former devastated church.

328. These points are to be demonstrated in the order given. First: Every religion declines
and comes to an end in the course of time. There have been several churches on this earth,
one after another, for wherever mankind is, a church is. For, as was shown above, heaven, which
is the goal of creation, is from mankind, and no one can enter heaven unless he is in the two
universal marks of the church which, as was shown just above (n. 326), are the acknowledgment
of God and living aright. It follows that there have been churches on this earth from the most
ancient times to the present. These churches are described in the Word, but not historically
except the Israelitish and Jewish church. There were churches before it which are only described
in the Word under the names of nations and persons and in a few items about them.

[2] The first, the Most Ancient Church, is described under the names of Adam and his wife Eve.
The next church, to be called the Ancient Church, is described by Noah, his three sons and
their posterity. This church was widespread and extended over many of the kingdoms of Asia:
the land of Canaan on both sides of the Jordan, Syria, Assyria and Chaldea, Mesopotamia, Egypt,
Arabia, Tyre and Sidon. These had the Ancient Word (Doctrine of the New Jerusalem about Sacred
Scripture, nn. 101-103). That this church existed in those kingdoms is evident from various
things recorded about them in the prophetical parts of the Word. This church was markedly altered
by Eber, from whom arose the Hebrew church, in which worship by sacrifices was first instituted.
From the Hebrew church the Israelitish and Jewish church was born and solemnly established
for the sake of the Word which was composed in it. Nor is anything else meant by the golden,
silver, copper and iron ages mentioned by ancient writers. Needless to say, the Christian church
succeeded the Jewish. It can be seen from the Word that all these churches declined in the
course of time, eventually coming to an end, called their consummation.

[4] The consummation of the Most Ancient Church, brought about by the eating of the tree of
knowledge, meaning by the pride of one's own intelligence, is depicted by the Flood. The consummation
of the Ancient Church is depicted in the various devastations of nations mentioned in the historical
as well as the prophetical Word and especially by the expulsion of the nations from the land
of Canaan by the children of Israel. The consummation of the Israelitish and Jewish church
is understood by the destruction of the temple at Jerusalem and by the carrying away of the
people of Israel into permanent captivity and of the Jewish nation to Babylon, and finally
by the second destruction of the temple and of Jerusalem at the same time, and by the dispersion
of that nation. This consummation is foretold in many places in the Prophets and in Daniel
9:24-27. The gradual devastation of the Christian church even to its end is pictured by the
Lord in Matthew (24), Mark (13) and Luke (21), but the end itself in the Apocalypse. Hence
it may be manifest that in the course of time a church declines and comes to an end; so does
a religion.

[5] Second: Every religion declines and comes to an end through the inversion of God's image
in man. It is known that the human being was created in the image and after the likeness of
God (Ge 1:26), but let us say what the image and the likeness of God are. God alone is love
and wisdom; man was created to be a receptacle of both love and wisdom, his will to be a receptacle
of divine love and his understanding a receptacle of the divine wisdom. These two receptacles,
it was shown above, are in man from creation, constitute him, and are formed in everyone in
the womb. Man's being an image of God thus means that he is a recipient of the divine wisdom,
and his being a likeness of God means that he is a recipient of the divine love. Therefore
the receptacle called the understanding is an image of God, and the receptacle called the will
is a likeness of God. Since, then, man was created and formed to be a receptacle, it follows
that he was created and formed that his will might receive love from God and his understanding
wisdom from God. He receives these when he acknowledges God and lives according to His precepts,
receiving them in lesser or larger measure as by religion he has some knowledge of God and
of His precepts, consequently according to his knowledge of truths. For truths teach what God
is and how He is to be acknowledged, also what His precepts are and how man is to live according
to them.

[6] The image and likeness of God have not been destroyed in man, but seem to have been; they
remain inherent in his two faculties called liberty and rationality, of which we have treated
above at many places. They seem to have been destroyed when man made the receptacle of divine
love, namely, his will, a receptacle of self-love, and the receptacle of divine wisdom, namely,
his understanding, a receptacle of his own intelligence. Doing this, he inverted the image
and likeness of God and turned these receptacles away from God and towards himself. Consequently
they have become closed above and open below, or closed in front and open behind, though by
creation they were open in front and closed behind. When they have been opened and closed contrariwise,
the receptacle of love, the will, receives influx from hell or from one's proprium; so does
the receptacle of wisdom, the understanding. Hence worship of men arose in the churches instead
of the worship of God, and worship by doctrines of falsity instead of worship by doctrines
of truth, the latter arising from man's own intelligence, and the former from love of self.
Thence it is evident that religion falls away in the course of time and is ended by the inversion
of God's image in man.

[7] Third: This takes place as a result of a continual increase of hereditary evil over the
generations. It was said and explained above that hereditary evil does not come from Adam and
his wife Eve by their having eaten of the tree of knowledge, but is derived and transmitted
successively from parents to offspring. Thus it grows by continual increase from generation
to generation. When evil increases so among many, it spreads to many more, for in all evil
there is a lust to lead astray, in some burning with anger against goodness--hence a contagion
of evil. When the contagion reaches leaders, rulers and the prominent in the church, religion
has become perverted, and the means of restoring it to health, namely truths, become corrupted
by falsifications. As a result there is a gradual devastation of good and desolation of truth
in the church on to its end.

[8] Fourth: Nevertheless the Lord provides that everyone may be saved. He provides that there
shall be religion everywhere and in it the two essentials for salvation, acknowledgment of
God and ceasing from evil because it is contrary to God. Other things, which pertain to the
understanding and hence to the thinking, called matters of faith, are provided everyone in
accord with his life, for they are accessory to life and if they have been given precedence,
do not become living until they are subsidiary. It is also provided that those who have lived
rightly and acknowledged God are instructed by angels after death. This last they receive more
readily than do Christians who have brought with them from the world an idea of the Lord's
human nature parted from His divine. It is also provided by the Lord that all are saved who
die as infants, no matter where they have been born.

[9] Furthermore, every person is given the opportunity after death of amending his life if
possible. All are instructed and led by the Lord by means of angels. Knowing now that they
live after death and that heaven and hell exist, they at first receive truths. But those who
did not acknowledge God and shun evils as sins when in the world soon show a distaste for truths
and draw back, and those who acknowledged truths with the lips but not with the heart are like
the foolish virgins who had lamps but no oil and begged oil of others, also went off and bought
some, but still were not admitted to the wedding. "Lamps" signify truths of faith and "oil"
signifies the good of charity. It may be evident then that divine providence sees to it that
everyone can be saved and that man is himself in fault if he is not saved.

[10] Fifth: It is also provided that a new church shall succeed in place of a former devastated
church. It has been so from the most ancient days that on the devastation of a church a new
one followed. The Ancient Church succeeded the Most Ancient; the Israelitish or Jewish Church
followed the Ancient; after this came the Christian Church. And this, it is foretold in the
Apocalypse, will be followed by a new church, signified in that book by the New Jerusalem descending
from heaven. The reason why a new church is provided by the Lord to follow in place of a former
devastated church may be seen in Doctrine of the New Jerusalem about Sacred Scripture (nn.
104-113).

329. (iv) Thus all are predestined to heaven, and no one to hell. In the work Heaven and Hell
(London, 1758) we showed at nn. 545-550 that the Lord casts no one into hell; the spirit himself
does this. So it happens with every evil and impious person after death and also while he is
in the world, with the difference that while he is in the world he can be reformed and can
embrace and avail himself of the means of salvation, but not after departure from the world.
The means of salvation are summed up in these two: that evils are to be shunned because they
are contrary to the divine laws in the Decalog and that it be acknowledged that God exists.
Everyone can do both if he does not love evils. For the Lord is constantly flowing into his
will with power for shunning evils and into his understanding with power to think that God
there is. But no one can do the one without doing the other; the two are joined together like
the two tables of the Decalog, one relating to God and the other to man. In accordance with
what is in His table the Lord enlightens and empowers everyone, but man receives power and
enlightenment so far as he does what he is bidden in his table. Until then the two tables appear
to be laid face to face and to be sealed, but as man acts on the biddings in his table they
are unsealed and opened out.

[2] Today is not the Decalog like a small, closed book or document, opened only in the hands
of children and the young? Tell someone farther along in years, "Do not do this because it
is contrary to the Decalog" and who gives heed? He may give heed if you say, "Do not do this
because it is contrary to divine laws," and yet the precepts of the Decalog are the divine
laws themselves. Experiment was made with a number in the spiritual world, who at mention of
the Decalog or Catechism rejected it with contempt. This is because in the second table, which
is man's, the Decalog teaches that evils are to be shunned, and one who does not do so, whether
from impiety or from the religious tenet that deeds effect nothing, only faith does, hears
mention of the Decalog or Catechism with disdain, as though it was a child's book he heard
mentioned, no longer of use to adults.

[3] These things have been said in order that it may be known that a knowledge of the means
by which one can be saved is not lacking to anyone, nor power if he wants to be saved. It follows
that all are predestined to heaven and no one to hell. Since, however, a belief in a predestination
not to salvation but to damnation has prevailed with some, and this belief is damaging and
cannot be broken up unless one's reason sees the insanity and cruelty in it, it is to be dealt
with in this order:

1. Predestination except to heaven is contrary to divine love and its infiniteness. 2. Predestination
other than to heaven is contrary to divine wisdom and its infiniteness. 3. That only those
born in the church are saved is an insane heresy. 4. That any of mankind are condemned by predestination
is a cruel heresy.

330. That it may be apparent how damaging the belief is in predestination as this is commonly
understood, these four arguments are to be taken up and confirmed. First: Predestination except
to heaven is contrary to divine love and its infiniteness. In the treatise Divine Love and
Wisdom we demonstrated that Jehovah or the Lord is divine love, is infinite, and is the esse
of all life; also that the human being was created in God's image after God's likeness. As
everyone is formed in the womb by the Lord into that image and after that likeness, as was
also shown, the Lord is the heavenly Father of all human beings and they are His spiritual
children. So Jehovah or the Lord is called in the Word, and so human beings are. Therefore He says:

Do not call your father on earth your father, for One is your Father, who is in the heavens
(Mt 23:9).

This means that He alone is the Father with reference to the life in us, and the earthly father
is father of the covering on life, which is the body. In heaven, therefore, no one but the
Lord is called Father. And from many passages in the Word it is clear that those who do not
pervert that life are said to be His sons and to be born from Him.

[2] Plainly, then, the divine love is in every man, an evil man as well as a good man, and
the Lord who is divine love cannot act otherwise than a father on earth does with his children,
infinitely more lovingly because divine love is infinite. Furthermore, He cannot withdraw from
anyone because everyone's life is from Him. He appears to withdraw from those who are evil,
but it is they who withdraw, while He still in love leads them.

It is also known in the church that the Lord desires the salvation of all and the death of
no one. It may be seen from all this that predestination except to heaven is contrary to divine
love.

[3] Second: Predestination other than to heaven is contrary to divine wisdom, which is infinite.
By its divine wisdom divine love provides the means by which every man can be saved. To say
that there is any predestination except to heaven is therefore to say that divine love cannot
provide means to salvation, when yet the means exist for all, as was shown above, and these
are of divine providence which is boundless. The reason that there are those who are not saved
is that divine love desires man to feel the felicity and blessedness of heaven for himself,
else it would not be heaven to him, and this can be effected only as it seems to man that he
thinks and wills of himself. For without this appearance nothing would be appropriated to him
nor would he be a human being. To this end divine providence exists, which acts by divine wisdom
out of divine love.

[4] But this does not do away with the truth that all are predestined to heaven and no one
to hell. Were the means to salvation lacking, it would; but, as was demonstrated above, the
means to salvation have been provided for everyone, and heaven is such that all of whatever
religion who live rightly have a place in it. Man is like the earth which produces fruits of
every kind, a power the earth has as the earth. That it also produces evil fruits does not
do away with its capability of producing good fruits; it would if it could only produce evil
fruits. Or, again, man is like an object which variegates the rays of light in it. If the object
gives only unpleasing colors, the light is not the cause, for its rays can be variegated to
produce pleasing colors.

[5] Third: That only those who have been born in the church are saved is an insane heresy.
Those born outside the church are human beings equally with those born within it; they have
the same heavenly origin, and like them they are living and immortal souls. They also have
some religion by virtue of which they acknowledge God's existence and that they should live
aright. One who acknowledges God and lives aright becomes spiritual in his measure and is saved,
as we showed above. It may be protested that they have not been baptized, but baptism does
not save any who are not washed spiritually, that is, regenerated, of which baptism is a sign
and reminder.

[6] It is also objected that the Lord is not known to them and that there is no salvation without
Him. But salvation does not come to a person because the Lord is known to him, but because
he lives according to the Lord's precepts. Moreover, the Lord is known to everyone who acknowledges
God, for He is God of heaven and earth, as He Himself teaches (Mt 28:18 and elsewhere). Furthermore,
those outside the church have a clearer idea about God as Man than Christians have, and those
who have a concept of God as Man and live rightly are accepted by the Lord. They also acknowledge
God as one in person and essence, differently from Christians. They also give thought to God
in their lives, for they regard evils as sins against God, and those who do this regard God
in their lives. Christians have precepts of religion from the Word, but few draw precepts of
life from it.

[7] Roman Catholics do not read the Word, and the Reformed who are in faith apart from charity
do not attend to those utterances in it which concern life, only to those which concern faith,
and yet the Word as a whole is nothing else than a doctrine of life. Christianity obtains only
in Europe; Mohammedanism and Gentilism are found in Asia, the Indies, Africa and America, and
the people in these parts of the globe are ten times more numerous than those in the Christian
part, and in this part few put religion in life. What then is more mad than to believe that
only these latter are saved and the former condemned, and that a man has heaven on the strength
of his birth and not on the strength of his life?

