Without designing any such child's play, our rustic hero, properly equipped with his antique
pistols, well charged, close rammed, three-ounce bullets, or nearabouts, in each, stood, breathing
fire but without cooling, on the edge of the lake, perched on an eminence and looking out for
the coming enemy. He was playing an unwonted character, but he felt as if it were quite familiar
to him. He had none of that nice feeling which, without impugning courage, is natural enough
to inexperience in such cases. The muzzles of the pistols did not appear to him particularly
large. He never once thought of his own ribs being traversed by his three-ounce messengers.
He had no misgivings on the subject of his future digestion. He only thought of that blow from
his father's hand--that keen shaft from the lips of Margaret Cooper--that desolation which
had fallen upon his soul from the scorn of both; and the vengeance which it was in his power
to inflict upon the fortunate interloper to whose arts he ascribed all his misfortunes! and
with these thoughts his fury and impatience increased, and he ascended the highest hill to
look out for his foe; descended, in the next moment, to the edge of the lake, the better to
prepare for the meeting.

In this state of excitement the meekness had departed from his countenance; an entire change
of expression had taken place: he stood up, erect, bold, eagle-eyed, with the look of one newly
made a man by the form of indomitable will, and feeling, for the first time, man's terrible
commission to destroy. In a moment, with the acquisition of new moods, he had acquired a new
aspect. Hitherto, he had been tame, seemingly devoid of spirit--you have not forgotten the
reproaches of his cousin, which actually conveyed an imputation against his manliness?--shrinking,
with a feeling of shyness akin to mauvaise honte, and almost submitting to injustice, to avoid
the charge of ill-nature. The change that we have described in his soul, had made itself singularly
apparent in his looks. They were full of a grim determination. Had he gazed upon his features,
in the glassy surface of the lake beside him, he had probably recoiled from their expression.

We have seen Mrs. Hinkley sending Stevens forth for the purpose of recalling her son to his
senses, receiving his repentance, and bringing him once more home into the bosom of his flock.
We have not forgotten the brace of arguments with which he provided himself in order to bring
about this charitable determination. Stevens was a shot. He could snuff his candle at ten paces,
sever his bamboo, divide the fingers of the hand with separate bullets without grazing the
skin--nay, more, as was said in the euphuistic phraseology of his admirers, send his ball between
soul and body without impairing the integrity of either.

But men may do much shooting at candle or bamboo, who would do precious little while another
is about to shoot at them. There is a world of difference between looking in a bull's-eye,
and looking in the eye of man. A pistol, too, looks far less innocent, regarded through the
medium of a yawning muzzle, than the rounded and neatly-polished butt. The huge mouth seems
to dilate as you look upon it. You already begin to fancy you behold the leaden mass--the three-ounce
bullet--issuing from its stronghold, like a relentless baron of the middle ages, going forth
under his grim archway, seeking only whom he may devour. The sight is apt to diminish the influence
of skill. Nerves are necessary to such sportsmen, and nerves become singularly untrue when
frowned upon through such a medium.

Under this view of the case, we are not so sure that the excellence of aim for which Alfred
Stevens has been so much lauded, will make the difference very material between the parties;
and now that he is fairly roused, there is a look of the human devil about William Hinkley,
that makes him promise to be dangerous. Nay, the very pistols that he wields, those clumsy,
rusty, big-mouthed ante-revolutionary machines, which his stout grandsire carried at Camden
and Eutaw, have a look of service about them--a grim, veteran-like aspect, that makes them
quite as perilous to face as to handle. If they burst they will blow on all sides. There will
be fragments enough for friend and foe; and even though Stevens may not apprehend so much from
the aim of his antagonist, something of deference is due to the possibility of such a concussion,
as will make up all his deficiencies of skill.

But they have not yet met, though Stevens, with praiseworthy Christianity, is on his way to
keep his engagements, as well to mother as to son. He has his own pistols--not made for this
purpose--but a substantial pair of traveller's babes--big of mouth, long of throat, thick of
jaw, keen of sight, quick of speech, strong of wind, and weighty of argument. They are rifled
bores also, and, in the hands of the owner, have done clever things at bottle and sapling.
Stevens would prefer to have the legitimate things, but these babes are trustworthy; and he
has no reason to suppose that the young rustic whom he goes to meet can produce anything more
efficient. He had no idea of those ancient bull-pups, those solemn ante-revolutionary barkers,
which our grandsire used upon harder heads than his, at Camden and the Eutaws. He is scarcely
so confident in his own weapons when his eye rests on the rusty tools of his enemy.

But it was not destined that this fight should take place without witnesses. In spite of all
the precautions of the parties, and they were honest in taking them, our little village had
its inklings of what was going on. There were certain signs of commotion and explosion which
made themselves understood. Our little maid, Susan Hinkley, was the first, very innocently,
to furnish a clue to the mystery. She had complained to her mother that Cousin William had
not shot the little guns for her according to his promise.

"But, perhaps, he didn't want to shoot them, Susan."

"Yes, mamma, he put them in his pockets. He's carried them to shoot; and he promised to shoot
them for me as soon as I carried the note."

"And to whom did you carry the note, Susan?" asked the mother.

"To the young parson, at Uncle William's."

The mother had not been unobservant of the degree of hostility which her brother, as well as
cousin, entertained for Stevens. They had both very freely expressed their dislike in her presence.
Some of their conferences had been overheard and were now recalled, in which this expression
of dislike had taken the form of threats, vague and purposeless, seemingly, at the time; but
which now, taken in connection with what she gathered from the lips of the child, seemed of
portentous interest. Then, when she understood that Stevens had sent a note in reply--and that
both notes were sealed, the quick, feminine mind instantly jumped to the right conclusion.

"They are surely going to fight. Get my bonnet, Susan, I must run to Uncle William's, and tell
him while there's time. Which way did Cousin William go?"

The child could tell her nothing but that he had taken to the hills.

"That brother Ned shouldn't be here now! Though I don't see the good of his being here. He'd
only make matters worse. Run, Susan--run over to Gran'pa Calvert, and tell him to come and
stop them from fighting, while I hurry to Uncle William's. Lord save us!--and let me get there
in time."

The widow had a great deal more to say, but this was quite enough to bewilder the little girl.
Nevertheless, she get forth to convey the mysterious message to Grand'pa Calvert, though the
good mother never once reflected that this message was of the sort which assumes the party
addressed to be already in possession of the principal facts. While she took one route the
mother pursued another, and the two arrived at their respective places at about the same time.
Stevens had already left old Hinkley's when the widow got there, and the consternation of Mrs.
Hinkley was complete. The old man was sent for to the fields, and came in only to declare that
some such persuasion had filled his own mind when first the billet of his son had been received.
But the suspicion of the father was of a much harsher sort than that of the widow Hinkley.
In her sight it was a duel only--bad enough as a duel--but still only a duel, where the parties
incurring equal risks, had equal rights. But the conception of the affair, as it occurred to
old Hinkley, was very different.

"Base serpent!" he exclaimed--"he has sent for the good young man only to murder him. He implores
him to come to him, in an artful writing, pretending to be sorely sorrowful and full of repentance;
and he prepares the weapon of murder to slay him when he comes. Was there ever creature so
base!--but I will hunt him out. God give me strength, and grant that I may find him in season."

Thus saying, the old man seized his crab-stick, a knotty club, that had been seasoned in a
thousand smokes, and toughened by the use of twenty years. His wife caught up her bonnet and
hurried with the widow Hinkley in his train. Meanwhile, by cross-examining the child, Mr. Calvert
formed some plausible conjectures of what was on foot, and by the time that the formidable
procession had reached his neighborhood he was prepared to join it. Events thickened with the
increasing numbers. New facts came in to the aid of old ones partially understood. The widow
Thackeray, looking from her window, as young and handsome widows are very much in the habit
of doing, had seen William Hinkley going by toward the hill, with a very rapid stride and a
countenance very much agitated; and an hour afterward she had seen Brother Stevens following
on the same route--good young man!--with the most heavenly and benignant smile upon his countenance--the
very personification of the cherub and the seraph, commissioned to subdue the fiend.

"Here is some of your treachery, Mr. Calvert. You have spoiled this boy of mine; turning his
head with law studies; and making him disobedient--giving him counsel and encouragement against
his father--and filling his mind with evil things. It is all your doing, and your books. And
now he's turned out a bloody murderer, a papist murderer, with your Roman catholic doctrines."

"I am no Roman catholic, Mr. Hinkley," was the mild reply--"and as for William becoming a murderer,
I think that improbable. I have a better opinion of your son than you have."

"He's an ungrateful cub--a varmint of the wilderness--to strike the good young man in my own
presence--to strike him with a cowskin--what do you think of that, sir? answer me that, if
you please."

"Did William Hinkley do this?" demanded the old teacher earnestly.

"Ay, that he did, did he!"

"I can hardly understand it. There must have been some grievous provocation?"

"Yes; it was a grievous provocation, indeed, to have to wait for grace before meat."

"Was that all? can it be possible!"

The mother of the offender supplied the hiatus in the story--and Calvert was somewhat relieved.
Though he did not pretend to justify the assault of the youth, he readily saw how he had been
maddened by the treatment of his father. He saw that the latter was in a high pitch of religious
fury--his prodigious self-esteem taking part with it, naturally enough, against a son, who,
until this instance, had never risen in defiance against either. Expostulation and argument
were equally vain with him; and ceasing the attempt at persuasion, Calvert hurried on with
the rest, being equally anxious to arrest the meditated violence, whether that contemplated
the murderous assassination which the father declared, or the less heinous proceeding of the
duel which he suspected.

There was one thing which made him tremble for his own confidence in William Hinkley's propriety
of course. It was the difficulty which he had with the rest, in believing that the young student
of divinity would fight a duel. This doubt, he felt, must be that, of his pupil also: whether
the latter had any reason to suppose that Stevens would depart from the principles of his profession,
and waive the securities which it afforded, he had of course, no means for conjecturing; but
his confidence in William induced him to believe that some such impression upon his mind had
led him to the measure of sending a challenge, which, otherwise, addressed to a theologian,
would have been a shameless mockery.

There was a long running fire, by way of conversation and commentary, which was of course maintained
by these toiling pedestrians, cheering the way as they went; but though it made old Hinkley
peccant and wrathy, and exercised the vernacular of the rest to very liberal extent, we do
not care to distress the reader with it. It may have been very fine or not. It is enough to
say that the general tenor of opinion run heavily against our unhappy rustic, and in favor
of the good young man, Stevens. Mrs. Thackeray, the widow, to whom Stevens had paid two visits
or more since he had been in the village, and who had her own reasons for doubting that Margaret
Cooper had really obtained any advantages in the general struggle to find favor in the sight
of this handsome man of God--was loud in her eulogy upon the latter, and equally unsparing
in her denunciations of the village lad who meditated so foul a crime as the extinguishing
so blessed a light. Her denunciations at length aroused all the mother in Mrs. Hinkley's breast,
and the two dames had it, hot and heavy, until, as the parties approached the lake, old Hinkley,
with a manner all his own, enjoined the most profound silence, and hushed, without settling
the dispute.

Meanwhile, the combatants had met. William Hinkley, haviug ascended the tallest perch among
the hills, beheld his enemy approaching at a natural pace and at a short distance. He descended
rapidly to meet him and the parties joined at the foot of the woodland path leading down to
the lake, where, but a few days before, we beheld Stevens and Margaret Cooper. Stevens was
somewhat surprised to note the singular and imposing change which a day, almost an hour, had
wrought in the looks and bearing of the young rustic. His good, and rather elevated command
of language, had struck him previously as very remarkable, but this had been explained by his
introduction to Mr. Calvert, who, as his teacher, he soon found was very well able to make
him what he was. It was the high bearing, the courteous defiance, the superior consciousness
of strength and character, which now spoke in the tone and manner of the youth. A choice military
school, for years, could scarcely have brought about a more decided expression of that subdued
heroism, which makes mere manliness a matter of chivalry, and dignifies brute anger and blind
hostility into something like a sentiment. Under the prompting of a good head, a generous temper,
and the goodness of a highly-roused, but legitimate state of feeling, William Hinkley wore
the very appearance of that nobleness, pride, ease, firmness, and courtesy, which, in the conventional
world, it is so difficult, yet held to be so important, to impress upon the champion when ready
for the field. A genuine son of thunder would have rejoiced in his deportment, and though a
sneering, jealous and disparaging temper, Alfred Stevens could not conceal from himself the
conviction that there was stuff in the young man which it needed nothing but trial and rough
attrition to bring out.

William Hinkley bowed at his approach, and pointed to a close footpath leading to the rocks
on the opposite shore.

"There, sir, we shall be more secret. There is a narrow grove above, just suited to our purpose.
Will it please you to proceed thither?"

"As YOU please, Mr. Hinkley," was the reply; "I have no disposition to balk your particular
desires. But the sight of this lake reminds me that I owe you my life?"

"I had thought, sir, that the indignity which I put upon you, would cancel all such memories,"
was the stern reply.

The cheek of Stevens became crimson--his eye flashed--he felt the sarcasm--but something was
due to his position, and he was cool enough to make a concession to circumstances. He answered
with tolerable calmness, though not without considerable effort.

"It has cancelled the OBLIGATION, sir, if not the memory! I certainly can owe you nothing for
a life which you have attempted to disgrace--"

"Which I have disgraced!" said the other, interrupting him.

"You are right, sir. How far, however, you have shown your manhood in putting an indignity
upon one whose profession implies peace, and denounces war, you are as well prepared to answer
as myself."

"The cloth seems to be of precious thickness!" was the answer of Hinkley, with a smile of bitter
and scornful sarcasm.

"If you mean to convoy the idea that I do not feel the shame of the blow, and am not determined
on avenging it, young man, you are in error. You will find that I am not less determined because
I am most cool. I have come out deliberately for the purpose of meeting you. My purpose in
reminding you of my profession was simply to undeceive you. It appears to me not impossible
that the knowledge of it has made you somewhat bolder than you otherwise might have been."

"What mean you?" was the stern demand of Hinkley, uttered in very startling accents.

"To tell you that I have not always been a non-combatant, that I am scarcely one now, and that,
in the other schools, in which I have been taught, the use of the pistol was an early lesson.
You have probably fancied that such was not the case, and that my profession--"

"Come, sir--will you follow this path?" said Hinkley, interrupting him impatiently.

"All in good time, sir, when you have heard me out," was the cool reply. "Now, sir," he continued,
"were you to have known that it would be no hard task for me to mark any button on your vest,
at any distance--that I have often notched a smaller mark, and that I am prepared to do so
again, it might be that your prudence would have tempered your courage--"

"I regret for your sake," said Hinkley, again interrupting him with a sarcasm, "that I have
not brought with me the weapon with which MY marks are made. You seem to have forgotten that
I too have some skill in my poor way. One would think, sir, that the memory would not fail
of retaining what I suspect will be impressed upon the skin for some time longer."

"You are evidently bent on fighting, Mr. Hinkley, and I must gratify you!"

"If you please, sir."

"But, before doing so, I should like to know in what way I have provoked such a feeling of
hostility in your mind? I have not sought to do so. I have on the contrary, striven to show
you my friendship, in part requital of the kindness shown me by your parents."

"Do not speak of them, if you please."

"Ay, but I must. It was at the instance of your worthy mother that I sought you and strove
to confer with you on, the cause of your evident unhappiness."

"You were the cause."

"I?"

"Yes--you! Did I not tell you then that I hated you; and did you not accept my defiance?"

"Yes; but when you saved my life!--"

"It was to spurn you--to put stripes upon you. I tell you, Alfred Stevens, I loathe you with
the loathing one feels for a reptile, whose cunning is as detestable as his sting is deadly.
I loathe you from instinct. I felt this dislike and distrust for you from the first moment
that I saw you. I know not how, or why, or in what manner, you are a villain, but I feel you
to be one! I am convinced of it as thoroughly as if I knew it. You have wormed yourself into
the bosom of my family. You have expelled me from the affections of my parents; and not content
with this, you have stolen to the heart of the woman to whom my life was devoted, to have me
driven thence also. Can I do less than hate you? Can I desire less than your destruction? Say,
having heard so much, whether you will make it necessary that I should again lay my whip over
your shoulders."

The face of Stevens became livid as he listened to this fierce and bitter speech. His eye watched
that of the speaker with the glare of the tiger, as if noteful only of the moment when to spring.
His frame trembled. His lip quivered with the struggling rage. All his feeling of self-superiority
vanished when he listened to language of so unequivocal a character--language which so truly
denounced, without defining, his villany. He felt, that if the instinct of the other was indeed
so keen and quick, then was the combat necessary, and the death of the rustic essential, perhaps,
to his own safety. William Hinkley met his glance with a like fire. There was no shrinking
of his heart or muscles. Nay, unlike his enemy, he felt a strange thrill of pleasure in his
veins as he saw the effect which his language had produced on the other.

"Lead the way!" said Stevens; "the sooner you are satisfied the better."

"You are very courteous, and I thank you," replied Hinkley, with a subdued but sarcastic smile,
"you will pardon me for the seeming slight, in taking precedence of one so superior; but the
case requires it. You will please to follow. I will show you my back no longer than it seems
necessary."

"Lead on, sir--lead on."

CHAPTER XXIII.

UNEXPECTED ISSUES.

William Hinkley ascended the narrow path leading to the hills with an alacrity of heart which
somewhat surprised himself. The apprehensions of danger, if he felt any, were not of a kind
to distress or annoy him, and were more than balanced by the conviction that he had brought
his enemy within his level. That feeling of power is indeed a very consolatory one. It satisfies
the ambitious heart, though death preys upon his household, one by one; though suffering fevers
his sleep; though the hopes of his affection wither; though the loves and ties of his youth
decay and vanish. It makes him careless of the sunshine, and heedless of the storm. It deadens
his ear to the song of birds, it blinds his eye to the seduction of flowers. It makes him fly
from friendship and rush on hate. It compensates for all sorts of loneliness, and it produces
them. It is a princely despotism; which, while it robs its slave of freedom, covers him with
other gifts which he learns to value more; which, binding him in fetters, makes him believe
that they are sceptres and symbols before which all things become what he desires them. His
speech is changed, his very nature perverted, but he acquires an "open sesame" by their loss,
and the loss seems to his imagination an exceeding gain. We will not say that William Hinkley
was altogether satisfied with HIS bargain, but in the moment when he stood confronting his
enemy on the bald rock, with a deadly weapon in each hand--when he felt that he stood foot
to foot in equal conflict with his foe, one whom he had dragged down from his pride of place,
and had compelled to the fearful issue which made his arrogance quail--in that moment, if he
did not forget, he did not so much feel, that he had lost family and friends, parents and love;
and if he felt, it was only to induce that keener feeling of revenge in which even the affections
are apt to be swallowed up.

Stevens looked in the eye of the young man and saw that he was dangerous. He looked upon the
ante-revolutionary pistols, and saw that they were dangerous too, in a double sense.

"Here are pistols," he said, "better suited to our purpose. You can sound them and take your
choice."

"These," said Hinkley, doggedly, "are as well suited as any. If you will, you can take your
choice of mine; but if you think yours superior, use them. These are good enough for me."

"But this is out of all usage," said Stevens.

"What matters it, Mr. Stevens? If you are satisfied that yours are the best, the advantage
is with you. If you doubt that mine can kill, try them. I have a faith in these pistols which
will content me; but we will take one of each, if that will please you better, and use which
we think proper."

Stevens expressed himself better pleased to keep his own.

"Suit yourself as to distance," said Hinkley, with all the coolness of an unmixed salamander.
His opponent stepped off ten paces with great deliberation, and William Hinkley, moving toward
a fragment of the rock upon which he had placed his "revolutions" for the better inspection
of his opponent, possessed himself of the veterans and prepared to take the station which had
been assigned him.

"Who shall give the word?" demanded Stevens.

"You may!" was the cool rejoinder.

"If I do, I kill you," said the other.

"I have no fear, Mr. Stevens," answered William Hinkley with a degree of phlegm which almost
led Stevens to fancy he had to deal with a regular Trojan--"I have no fear," he continued,
"and if you fancy you can frighten me by this sort of bragging you have very much mistaken
your man. Shoot when you please, word or no word."

William Hinkley stood with his back to the woods, his face toward the lake which spread itself,
smooth and calm at a little distance. He did not perceive that his position was a disadvantageous
one. The tree behind, and that beside him, rendered his body a most conspicuous mark; while
his opponent, standing with his back to the uncovered rocks ranged with no other objects of
any prominence. Had he even been sufficiently practised in the arts of the duello, he would
most probably have been utterly regardless of these things. They would not have influenced
his firmness in the slightest degree. His course was quite as much the result of desperation
as philosophy. He felt himself an outcast as well from home as from love, and it mattered to
him very little, in the morbid excitement of his present mind, whether he fell by the hand
of his rival, or lived to pine out a wearisome existence, lonely and uninspired, a gloomy exile
in the bitter world. He waited, it may be said, with some impatience for the fire of his antagonist.
Once he saw the pistol of Stevens uplifted. He had one in each hand. His own hung beside him.
He waited for the shot of the enemy as a signal when to lift and use his own weapon. But instead
of this he was surprised to see him drop the muzzle of his weapon, and with some celerity and
no small degree of slight of hand, thrust the two pistols under his coat-skirts. A buz reached
his ears a moment after--the hum of voices--some rustling in the bushes, which signified confusion
in the approach of strangers. He did not wish to look round as he preferred keeping his eye
on his antagonist.

"Shoot!" he exclaimed--"quickly, before we are interrupted."

Before he could receive any answer there was a rush behind him--he heard his father's voice,
sudden, and in a high degree of fury, mingled with that of his mother and Mr. Calvert, as if
in expostulation. From the latter the words distinctly reached his ears, warning him to beware.
Such, also, was the purport of his mother's cry. Before he could turn and guard against the
unseen danger, he received a blow upon his head, the only thing of which he was conscious for
some time. He staggered and fell forward. He felt himself stunned, fancied he was shot, and
sunk to the ground in an utter state of insensibility.

The blow came from his father's crab-stick. It was so utterly unexpected by the parties who
had attended old Hinkley to the place of meeting, that no efforts were made to prevent it.
But the mother of the victim rushed in in time to defeat the second blow, which the father
prepared to inflict, in the moment when his son was falling from the effects of the first.
Grasping the coat skirts of her spouse, she pulled him back with no scrupulous hand, and effectually
baffled his designs by bringing him down, though in an opposite direction, to the same level
with the youth. Old Hinkley did not bite the dust, but the latter part of his skull most effectually
butted it; and had not his head been quite as tough as his crab-stick, the hurt might have
been quite as severe as that which the latter had inflicted on the son.

The latter lay as perfectly quiet as if all had been over with him. So much so, that the impression
became very general that such was the case. Under this impression the heart of the mother spoke
out in mingled screams of lamentation and reproach. She threw herself down by the side of the
youth and vainly attempted to stop the blood which was streaming from a deep gash on his skull.
While engaged in this work, her apron and handkerchief being both employed for this purpose,
she poured forth a torrent of wrath and denunciation against her spouse. She now forgot all
the offences of the boy, and even Alfred Stevens came in for his share of the anger with which
she visited the offence and the offender.

"Shame! shame! you bloody-minded man," she cried, "to slaughter your own son--your only son--to
come behind him and knock him down with a club as if he had been an inhuman ox! You are no
husband of mine. He sha'n't own you for a father. If I had the pick, I'd choose a thousand
fathers for him, from here to Massassippi, sooner than you. He's only too good and too handsome
to be son of yours. And for what should you strike him? For a stranger--a man we never saw
before. Shame on you! You are a brute, a monster, William Hinkley, and I'm done with you for ever.

"My poor, poor boy! Look up, my son. Look up, William. Open your eyes. It's your own dear mother
that speaks to you. O my God! you've killed him--he will not open his eyes. He's dead, he's
dead, he's dead!"

And truly it seemed so, for the youth gave no sign of consciousness. She threw herself in a
screaming agony upon his body, and gave herself up to the unmeasured despair, which, if a weakness,
is at least a sacred one in the case of a mother mourning her only son. Old Hinkley was not
without his alarms--nay, not altogether without his compunctions. But he was one of that round
head genus whose self-esteem is too much at all times for fear, or shame, or sensibility. Without
seeking to assist the lad, and ascertain what was his real condition, he sought only to justify
himself for what he had done by repeating the real and supposed offences of the youth. He addressed
himself in this labor chiefly to Mr. Calvert, who, with quite as much suffering as any of the
rest, had more consideration, and was now busied in the endeavor to stanch the blood and cleanse
the wound of the victim.

"He's only got what he deserved," exclaimed the sullen, stubborn father.

"Do not speak so, Mr. Hinkley," replied Calvert, with a sternness which was unusual with him;
"your son may have got his death."

"And he deserves it!" responded the other doggedly.

"And if he has," continued Calvert, "you are a murderer--a cold-blooded murderer--and as such
will merit and will meet the halter."

The face of the old man grew livid--his lips whitened with rage; and he approached Calvert,
his whole frame quivering with fury, and, shaking his hand threateningly, exclaimed:--

"Do you dare to speak to me in this manner, you miserable, white-headed pedagogue--do you dare?"

"Dare!" retorted Calvert, rising to his feet with a look of majesty which, in an instant, awed
the insolence of the offender. Never had he been faced by such defiance, so fearlessly and
nobly expressed.

"Dare!--Look on me, and ask yourself whether I dare or not. Approach me but a step nigher,
and even my love for your unfortunate and much-abused but well-minded son will not protect
you. I would chastise you, with all my years upon me, in spite of my white head.  Yours, if
this boy should die, will never become white, or will become so suddenly, as your soul will
wither, with its own self-torture, within you. Begone!--keep back--do not approach me, and,
above all, do not approach me with uplifted hand, or, by Heaven, I will fell you to the earth
as surely as you felled this boy! You have roused a feeling within me, William Hinkley, which
has slept for years.  Do not provoke it too far. Beware in season. You have acted the brute
and the coward to your son--you could do so with impunity to him--to me you can not."

There was something in this speech, from one whom old Hinkley was accustomed to look upon as
a dreaming bookworm, which goaded the tyrannical father into irrepressible fury; and, grinding
his teeth, without a moment's hesitation he advanced, and was actually about to lay the crab-stick
over the shoulders of the speaker: but the latter was as prompt as he was fearless. Before
Hinkley could conceive his intention, he had leaped over the still unconscious person of William,
and, flinging the old man round with a sudden jerk, had grasped and wrested the stick from
his hands with a degree of activity and strength which confounded all the bystanders, and the
subject of his sudden exercise of manhood no less than the rest.

"Were you treated justly," said Calvert, regarding him with a look of the loftiest indignation,
"you should yourself receive a taste of the cudgel you are so free to use on others. Let your
feebleness, old man, be a warning to your arrogance."

With these words, he flung the crab-stick into the lake, old Hinkley regarding him with looks
in which it was difficult to say whether mortification or fury had preponderance.

"Go," he continued--"your son lives; but it is God's mercy, and none of yours, which has spared
his life. You will live, I hope, to repent of your cruelty and injustice to him; to repent
of having shown a preference to a stranger, so blind as that which has moved you to attempt
the life of one of the most gentle lads in the whole country."

"And did he not come here to murder the stranger? did we not find him even now with pistol
ready to murder Brother Stevens? See the pistols now in his hands--my father's pistols. We
came not a minute too soon. But for my blow, he had been a murderer."

Such was the justification which old Hinkley now offered for what he had done.

"I am no advocate for duelling," said Calvert, "but I believe that your son came with the stranger
for this purpose, and not to murder him."

"No, no! do you not see that Brother Stevens has no pistols? Did we not see him trying to escape--walking
off--walking almost over the rocks to get out of the way?"

Calvert comprehended the matter much more clearly.

"Speak, sir!" he said to Stevens, "did you not come prepared to defend yourself?"

"You see me as I am," said Stevens, showing his empty hands.

Calvert looked at him with searching eye.

"I understand you, sir," he said, with an expression not to be mistaken; "I'understand you
now. THIS LAD I KNOW. HE COULD NOT BE A MURDERER. HE COULD NOT TAKE ANY MAN AT ADVANTAGE. If
you do not know the fact, Mr. Stevens, I can assure you that your life was perfectly secure
from his weapon, so long as his remained equally unendangered. The sight of that lake, from
which he rescued you but a few days ago, should sufficiently have persuaded you of this."

Stevens muttered something, the purport of which was, that "he did not believe the young man
intended to murder him."

"Did he not send you a challenge?"

"No!" said old Hinkley; "he sent him a begging note, promising atonement and repentance."

"Will you let me see that note?" said Calvert, addressing Stevens.

"I have it not--I destroyed it," said Stevens with some haste. Calvert said no more, but he
looked plainly enough his suspicions. He now gave his attention to William Hinkley, whose mother,
while this scene was in progress, had been occupied, as Calvert had begun, in stanching the
blood, and trimming with her scissors, which were fortunately at her girdle, the hair from
the wound. The son, meanwhile, had wakened to consciousness. He had been stunned but not severely
injured by the blow, and, with the promptitude of a border-dame, Mrs. Hinkley, hurrying to
a pine-tree, had gathered enough of its resin, which, spread upon a fragment of her cotton
apron, and applied to the hurt, proved a very fair substitute for adhesive plaster. The youth
rose to his feet, still retaining the pistols in his grasp. His looks were heavy from the stupor
which still continued, but kindled into instant intelligence when he caught sight of Stevens
and his father.

"Go home, sir!" said the latter, waving his hand in the prescribed direction.

"Never!" was the reply of the young man, firmly expressed; "never, sir, if I never have a home!"

"You shall always have a home, William, while I have one," said Mr. Calvert.

"What! you encourage my son in rebellion? you teach him to fly in the face of his father?"
shouted the old man.

"No, sir; I only offer him a shelter from tyranny, a place of refuge from persecution. When
you learn the duties and the feelings of a father, it will be time enough to assert the rights
of one.  I do not think him safe in your house against your vindictiveness and brutality. He
is, however, of full age, and can determine for himself."

"He is not of age, and will not be till July."

"It matters not. He is more near the years of discretion than his father; and, judging him
to be in some danger in your house, as a man and as a magistrate I offer him the protection
of mine. Come home with me, William."

"Let him go, if he pleases--go to the d--l! He who honors not his father, says the Scriptures--what
says the passage, Brother Stevens--does it not say that he who honors not his father is in
danger of hell-fire?"

"Not exactly, I believe," said the other.

"Matters not, matters not!--the meaning is very much the same."

"Oh, my son," said the mother, clinging to his neck, "will you, indeed, desert me? can you
leave me in my old age? I have none, none but you! You know how I have loved--you know I will
always love you."

"And I love you, mother--and love him too, though he treats me as an outcast--I will always
love you, but I will never more enter my father's dwelling. He has degraded me with his whip--he
has attempted my life with his bludgeon. I forgive him, but will never expose myself again
to his cruelties or indignities. You will always find me a son, and a dutiful one, in all other
respects."

He turned away with Mr. Calvert, and slowly proceeded down the pathway by which he had approached
the eminence. He gave Stevens a significant look as he passed him, and lifted one of the pistols
which he still carried in his hands, in a manner to make evident his meaning. The other smiled
and turned off with the group, who proceeded by the route along the hills, but the last words
of the mother, subdued by sobs, still came to the ears of the youth:--

"Oh, my son, come home! come home!"

"No! no! I have no home--no home, mother!" muttered the young man, as if he thought the half-stifled
response could reach the ears of the complaining woman.

"No home! no hope!" he continued--"I am desolate."

"Not so, my son. God is our home; God is our companion; our strength, our preserver! Living
and loving, manfully striving and working out our toils for deliverance, we are neither homeless,
nor hopeless; neither strengthless, nor fatherless; wanting neither in substance nor companion.
This is a sharp lesson, perhaps, but a necessary one. It will give you that courage, of the
great value of which I spoke to you but a few days ago. Come with me to my home; it shall be
yours until you can find a better."

"I thank you--oh! how much I thank you. It may be all as you pay, but I feel very, very miserable."

CHAPTER XXIV.

EXILE.

The artist in the moral world must be very careful not to suffer his nice sense of retributive
justice, to get so much the better of his judgment, as an artist, as to make him forgetful
of human probabilities, and the superior duty of preparing the mind of the young reader by
sterling examples of patience and protracted reward, to bear up manfully against injustice,
and not to despond because his rewards are slow. It would be very easy for an author to make
everybody good, or, if any were bad, to dismiss them, out of hand, to purgatory and places
even worse. But it would be a thankless toil to read the writings of such an author. His characters
would fail in vraisemblance, and his incidents would lack in interest. The world is a sort
of vast moral lazar-house, in which most have sores, either of greater or less degree of virulence.
Some are nurses, and doctors, and guardians; and these are necessarily free from the diseases
to which they minister. Some, though not many, are entirely incurable; many labor for years
in pain, and when dismissed, still hobble along feebly, bearing the proofs of their trials
in ugly seams and blotches, contracted limbs, and pale, haggard features. Others get off with
a shorter and less severe probation. None are free from taint, and those who are the most free,
are not always the greatest favorites with fortune.

We are speaking of the moral world, good reader. We simply borrow an illustration from the
physical. Our interest in one another is very much derived from our knowledge of each other's
infirmities; and it may be remarked, passingly, that this interest is productive of very excellent
philosophical temper, since it enables us to bear the worst misfortunes of our best friends
with the most amazing fortitude. It is a frequent error with the reader of a book--losing sight
of these facts--to expect that justice will always be done on the instant. He will suffer no
delay in the book, though he sees that this delay of justice is one of the most decided of
all the moral certainties whether in life or law. He does not wish to see the person in whom
the author makes him interested, perish in youth--die of broken heart or more rapid disaster;
and if he could be permitted to interfere, the bullet or the knife of the assassin would be
arrested at the proper moment and always turned against the bosom of the wrong-doer.

This is a very commendable state of feeling, and whenever it occurs, it clearly shows that
the author is going right in his vocation. It proves him to be a HUMAN author, which is something
better than being a mere, dry, moral one. But he would neither be a human nor a moral author
were he to comply with the desires of such gentle readers, and, to satisfy their sympathies,
arrest the progress of events. The fates must have their way, in the book as in the lazar-house;
and the persons of his drama must endure their sores and sufferings with what philosophy they
may, until, under the hands of that great physician, fortune, they receive an honorable discharge
or otherwise.

Were it with him, our young friend, William Hinkley, who is really a clever fellow, should
not only be received to favor with all parties, but such should never have fallen from favor
in the minds of any. His father should become soon repentant, and having convicted Stevens
of his falsehood and hypocrisy, he should be rewarded with the hand of the woman to whom his
young heart is so devoted. Such, perhaps, would be the universal wish with our readers; but
would this be fortunate for William Hinkley? Our venerable friend and his, Mr. Calvert, has
a very different opinion. He says:--

"This young man is not only a worthy young man, but he is one, naturally of very vigorous intellect.
He is of earnest, impassioned temperament, full of enthusiasm and imagination; fitted for work--great
work--public work--head work--the noblest kind of work. He will be a great lawyer--perhaps
a great statesman--if he addresses himself at once, manfully, to his tasks; but he will not
address himself to these tasks while he pursues the rusting and mind-destroying life of a country
village. Give him the object of his present desire and you deprive him of all motive for exertion.
Give him the woman he seeks and you probably deprive him even of the degree of quiet which
the country village affords. He would forfeit happiness without finding strength. Force him
to the use of his tools and he builds himself fame and fortune."

Calvert was really not sorry that William Hinkley's treatment had been so harsh. He sympathized,
it is true, in his sufferings, but he was not blind to their probable advantages; and he positively
rejoiced in his rejection by Margaret Cooper.

It was some four or five days after the events with which our last chapter was closed, that
the old man and his young friend were to be seen sitting together, under the shade of the venerable
tree where we have met them before. They had conferred together seriously, and finally with
agreeing minds, on the several topics which have been adverted to in the preceding paragraph.
William Hinkley had become convinced that it was equally the policy of his mind and heart to
leave Charlemont. He was not so well satisfied, however, as was the case with Mr. Calvert,
that the loss of Margaret Cooper was his exceeding gain. When did young lover come to such
a conclusion? Not, certainly, while he was young. But when was young lover wise? Though a discontent,
William Hinkley was not, however, soured nor despairing from the denial of his hopes. He had
resources of thought and spirit never tested before, of the possession of which he, himself,
knew nothing. They were to be brought into use and made valuable only by these very denials;
by the baffling of his hope; by the provocation of his strength.

His resolution grew rapidly in consequence of his disappointments. He was now prepared to meet
the wishes of his venerable and wise preceptor--to grapple stoutly with the masters of the
law; and, keeping his heart in restraint, if not absolute abeyance, to do that justice to his
head, which, according to the opinion of Mr.  Calvert, it well-deserved if hitherto it had
not demanded it. But to pursue his studies as well as his practice, he was to leave Charlemont.
How was this to be done--where was he to go--by what means? A horse, saddle, and bridle--a
few books and the ante-revolutionary pistols of his grandsire, which recent circumstances seemed
to have endeared to him, were all his available property.  His poverty was an estoppel, at
the outset, to his own reflections; and thinking of this difficulty he turned with a blank
visage to his friend.

The old man seemed to enter into and imagine his thoughts. He did not wait to be reminded,
by the halting speech of the youth, of the one subject from which the latter shrunk to speak.

"The next thing, my son," said he, "is the necessary means. Happily, in the case of one so
prudent and temperate as yourself, you will not need much. Food and clothing, and a small sum,
annually, for contingencies, will be your chief expense; and this, I am fortunately able to
provide. I am not a rich man, my son; but economy and temperance, with industry, have given
me enough, and to spare. It is long since I had resolved that all I have should be yours; and
I had laid aside small sums from time to time, intending them for an occasion like the present,
which I felt sure would at length arrive. I am rejoiced that my foresight should have begun
in time, since it enables me to meet the necessity promptly, and to interpose myself at the
moment when you most need counsel and assistance."

"Oh, my friend, my kind generous friend, how it shames me for my own father to hear you speak
thus!"

The youth caught the hands of his benefactor, and the hot tears fell from his eyes upon them,
while he fervently bent to kiss them.

"Your father is a good but rough man, William, who will come to his senses in good time. Men
of his education--governed as he is by the mistake which so commonly confounds God with his
self-constituted representative, religion with its professor--will err, and can not be reasoned
out of their errors. It is the unceasing operation of time which can alone teach them a knowledge
of the truth. You must not think too hardly of your father, who does not love you the less
because he fancies you are his particular property, with whom he may do what he pleases. As
for what I have done, and am disposed to do for you, let that not become burdensome to your
gratitude. In some respects you have been a son to me, and I send you from me with the same
reluctance which a father would feel in the like circumstances. You have been my companion,
you have helped to cheer my solitude; and I have learned to look on the progress of your mind
with the interest of the philosopher who pursues a favorite experiment. In educating you, I
have attempted an experiment which I should be sorry to see fail. I do not think now that it
will fail.  I think you will do yourself and me ample justice. If I have had my doubts, they
were of your courage, not your talent. If you have a weakness, it is because of a deficiency
of self-esteem--a tendency to self-disparagement. A little more actual struggle with the world,
and an utter withdrawal from those helps and hands which in a youth's own home are very apt
to be constantly employed to keep him from falling, and to save him from the consequences of
his fall, and I do not despair of seeing you acquire that necessary moral hardihood which will
enable you to think freely, and to make your mind give a fair utterance to the properties which
are in it. When this is done, I have every hope of you. You will rise to eminence in your profession.
I know, my son, that you will do me honor."

"Ah, sir, I am afraid you overrate my abilities. I have no consciousness of any such resources
as you suppose me to possess."

"It is here that your deficiency speaks out. Be bold, my son--be bold, bolder, boldest. I would
not have you presumptuous, but there is a courage, short of presumption, which is only a just
confidence in one's energies and moral determination. This you will soon form, if, looking
around you and into the performances of others, you see how easy they are, and how far inferior
they are to your own ideas of what excellence should be. Do not look into yourself for your
standards. I have perhaps erred in making these too high. Look out from yourself--look into
others--analyze the properties of others; and, in attempting, seek only to meet the exigencies
of the occasion, without asking what a great mind might effect beyond it. Your heart will fail
you always if your beau ideal is for ever present to your mind."

"I will try, sir. My tasks are before me, and I know it is full time that I should discard
my boyhood. I will go to work with industry, and will endeavor not to disappoint your confidence;
but I must confess, sir, I have very little in myself."

"If you will work seriously, William, my faith is in this very humility. A man knowing his
own weakness, and working to be strong, can not fail. He must achieve something more than he
strives for."

"You make me strong as I hear you, sir. But I have one request to make, sir. I have a favor
to ask, sir, which will make me almost happy if you grant it--which will at least reconcile
me to receive your favors, and to feel them less oppressively."

"What is that, William? You know, my son, there are few things which I could refuse you."

"It is that I MAY BE YOUR SON; that I may call you father, and bear henceforward your name.
If you adopt me, rear me, teach me, provide me with the means of education and life, and do
for me what a father should have done, you are substantially more than my father to me. Let
me bear, your name. I shall be proud of it, sir.  I will not disgrace it--nay, more, it will
strengthen me in my desire to do it and myself honor. When I hear it spoken, it will remind
me of my equal obligations to you and to myself."

"But this, my son, is a wrong done to your own father."

"Alas! he will not feel it such."

The old man shook his head.

"You speak now with a feeling of anger, William. The treatment of your fether rankles in your
mind."

"No, sir, no! I freely forgive him. I have no reference to him in the prayer I make. My purpose
is simply what I declare. Your name will remind me of your counsels, will increase my obligation
to pursue them, will strengthen me in my determination, will be to me a fond monitor in your
place. Oh, sir, do not deny me! You have shown me the affections of a father--let me, I entreat
you, bear the name of your son!"

The youth flung his arms about the old man's neck, and wept with a gush of fondness which the
venerable sire could not withstand. He was deeply touched: his lips quivered; his eyes thrilled
and throbbed. In vain did he strive to resist the impulse. He gave him tear for tear.

"My son, you have unmanned me."

"Ah, my father, I can not regret, since, in doing so, I have strengthened my own manhood."

"If it have this effect, William, I shall not regret my own weakness. There is a bird, you
are aware, of which it is fabled that it nourishes its young by the blood of its own bosom,
which it wounds for this purpose. Believe me, my dear boy, I am not unwilling to be this bird
for your sake. If to feel for you as the fondest of fathers can give me the rights of one,
then are you most certainly my son--my son!"

Long, and fond, and sweet, was their embrace. For a full hour, but few words, and those of
a mournful tenderness, were exchanged between the parties. But the scene and the struggle were
drawing nigh their close. This was the day when they were to separate. It had been arranged
that William Hinkley, or as he now calls himself, William Calvert, was to go into the world.
The old man had recalled for his sake, many of the memories and associations of his youth.
He had revived that period--in his case one of equal bitterness and pleasure--when, a youth
like him he was about to send forth, he had been the ardent student in a profession whose honors
he had so sadly failed to reap. In this profession he was then fortunate in having many sterling
friends. Some of these were still so. In withdrawing from society, he had not withdrawn from
all commerce with a select and sacred few; and to the friendly counsel and protection of these
he now deputed the paternal trusts which had been just so solemnly surrendered to himself.
There were long and earnest appeals written to many noble associates--men who had won great
names by dint of honorable struggle in those fields into which the feebler temper of Mr. Calvert
did not permit him to penetrate. Some of these letters bore for their superscriptions such
names as the Clays, the Crittendens, and the Metcalfs--the strong men, not merely of Kentucky,
but of the Union. The good old man sighed as he read them over, separately, to his young companion.

"Once I stood with them, and like them--not the meanest among them--nay, beloved by them as
an associate, and recognised as a competitor. But they are here--strong, high, glorious, in
the eye of the nation--and I am nothing--a poor white-headed pedagogue in the obscurest regions
of Kentucky. Oh, my son, remember this, and be strong! Beware of that weakness, the offspring
of a miserable vanity, which, claiming too much for itself, can bestow nothing upon others.
Strive only to meet the exigency, and you will do more--you will pass beyond it. Ask not what
your fame requires--the poor fame of a solitary man struggling like an atom in the bosom of
the great struggling world--ask only what is due to the task which you have assumed, and labor
to do that. This is the simple, small secret, but be sure it is the one which is of more importance
than all beside."

The departure of William Hinkley from his native village was kept a profound secret from all
persons except his adopted father and his bosom friend and cousin, Fisherman Ned. We have lost
sight of this young man for several pages, and, in justice equally to the reader and himself,
it is necessary that we should hurriedly retrace our progress, at least so far as concerns
his. We left him, if we rememoer, having driven Alfred Stevens from his purpose, riding on
alone, really with no other aim than to give circulation to his limbs and fancies. His ride,
if we are to believe his random but significant words, and his very knowing looks, was not
without its results. He had certainly made some discoveries--at least he thought and said so;
but, in truth, we believe these amounted to nothing more than some plausible conjectures as
to the route which Alfred Stevens was in the habit of pursuing, on those excursions, in which
the neighbors were disposed to think that there was something very mysterious. He certainly
had jumped to the conclusion that, on such occasions, the journey of Stevens was prolonged
to Ellisland; and, as such a ride was too long for one of mere pleasure and exercise, the next
conclusion was, that such a journey had always some business in it.

Now, a business that calls for so much secrecy, in a young student of theology, was certainly
one that could have very little relation to the church. So far as Ned Hinkley knew anything
of the Decalogue it could not well relate to that. There was nothing in St. Paul that required
him to travel post to Ellisland; though a voyage to Tarsus might be justified by the authority
of that apostle; and the whole proceeding, therefore, appeared to be a mystery in which gospelling
had very little to do. Very naturally, having arrived at this conclusion, Ned Hinkley jumped
to another. If the saints have nothing to do with this journey of Alfred Stevens, the sinners
must have. It meant mischief--it was a device of Satan; and the matter seemed so clearly made
out to his own mind, that he returned home with the further conviction, which was equally natural
and far more easily arrived at, that he was now bound by religion, as he had previously been
impelled by instinct, to give Stevens "a regular licking the very first chance that offered."
Still, though determined on this measure, he was not unmindful of the necessity of making other
discoveries; and he returned to Charlemont with a countenance big with importance and almost
black with mystery.

But the events which had taken place in his absence, and which we have already related, almost
put his own peculiar purposes out of his mind. That William Hinkley should have cowskinned
Stevens would have been much more gratifying to him could he have been present; and he was
almost disposed to join with the rest in their outcry against this sacrilegious proceeding,
for the simple reason, that it somewhat anticipated his own rigorous intentions to the same
effect. He was not less dissatisfied with the next attempt for two reasons.

"You might have known, Bill, that a parson won't fight with pistols. You might have persuaded
him to fist or cudgel, to a fair up and down, hand over, fight! That's not so criminal, they
think.  I heard once of Brother John Cross, himself trying a cudgel bout with another parson
down in Mississippi, because he took the same text out of his mouth, and preached it over the
very same day, with contrary reason. Everybody said that John Cross served him right, and nobody
blamed either. But they would have done so if pistols had been used. You can't expect parsons
or students of religion to fight with firearms. Swords, now, they think justifiable, for St.
Peter used them; but we read nowhere in Old or New Testament of their using guns, pistols,
or rifles."

"But he consented to fight, and brought his own pistols, Ned?"

"Why, then, didn't you fight? That's the next thing I blame you for--that, when you were both
ready, and had the puppies in your hands, you should have stood looking at each other without
taking a crack. By jingo, had there been fifty fathers and mothers in the bush, I'd have had
a crack at him. No, I blame you, William--I can't help it. You didn't do right. Oh! if you
had only waited for me, and let me have fixed it, how finely we would have managed. What then,
if your father had burst in, it was only shifting the barkers from your hands to mine. I'd
have banged at him, though John Cross himself, and all his flock, stood by and kneed it to
prevent me. They might have prayed to all eternity without stopping me, I tell you."

William Hinkley muttered something about the more impressive sort of procedure which his father
had resorted to, and a little soreness about the parietal bones just at that moment giving
a quick impatient air to his manner, had the effect of putting an end to all further discussion
of this topic. Fisherman Ned concluded with a brief assurance, meant as consolation, that,
when he took up the cudgels, his cousin need make himself perfectly easy with the conviction
that he would balance both accounts very effectually. He had previously exhorted William to
renew the attempt, though with different weapons, to bring his enemy into the field; but against
this attempt Mr. Calvert had already impressively enjoined him; exacting from him a promise
that he would not seek Stevens, and would simply abide any call for satisfaction which the
latter might make. The worthy old man was well assured that in Stevens's situation there was
very little likelihood of a summons to the field from him.

Still, William Hinkley did not deem it becoming in him to leave the ground for several days,
even after his preparations for departure were complete. He loitered in the neighborhood, showed
himself frequently to his enemy, and, on some of these occasions, was subjected to the mortification
of beholding the latter on his way to the house of Margaret Cooper, with whom, a few moments
after, he might be seen in lonely rambles by the lake-side and in the wood. William had conquered
his hopes from this quarter, but he vainly endeavored to suppress his pangs.

At length the morning came for his departure. He had seen his mother for the last time the
night before. They had met at the house of the widow Hinkley, between which and that of Calvert,
his time had been chiefly spent, since the day of his affair with Stevens. His determination
to depart was carefully concealed from his mother. He dreaded to hear her entreaties, and he
doubted his own strength to endure them. His deportment, however, was sufficiently fond and
tender, full of pain and passion, to have convinced her, had she been at all suspicious of
the truth, of the design he meditated. But, as it was, it simply satisfied her affections;
and the fond "good night" with which he addressed her ears at parting, was followed by a gush
of tears which shocked the more sturdy courage of his cousin, and aroused the suspicions of
the widow.

"William Hinkley," she said after the mother had gone home--"you must be thinking to leave
Charlemont. I'm sure of it--I know it."

"If you do, say nothing, dear cousin; it will do no good--it can not prevent me now, and will
only make our parting more painful."

"Oh, don't fear me," said the widow--"I shan't speak of it, till it's known to everybody, for
I think you right to go and do just as Gran'pa Calvert tells you; but you needn't have made
it such a secret with me. I've always been too much of your friend to say a word."

"Alas!" said the youth mournfully, "until lately, dear cousin, I fancied that I had no friends--do
not blame me, therefore, if I still sometimes act as if I had none."

"You have many friends, William, already--I'm sure you will find many more wherever you go;
abler friends if not fonder ones, than you leave behind you."

The youth threw his arms round the widow's neck and kissed her tenderly. Her words sounded
in his ears like some melodious prophecy.

"Say no more, cousin," he exclaimed with sudden enthusiasm; "I am so well pleased to believe
what you promise me of the future, that I am willing to believe all. God bless you. I will
never forget you."

The parting with Calvert was more touching in reality, but with fewer of the external signs
of feeling. A few words, a single embrace and squeeze of the hand, and they separated; the
old man hiding himself and his feelings in the dimness of his secluded abode, while his adopted
son, with whom Ned Hinkley rode a brief distance on his way, struck spurs into his steed, as
if to lose, in the rapid motion of the animal, the slow, sad feelings which were pressing heavily
upon his heart. He had left Charlemont for ever. He had left it under circumstances of doubt,
and despondency--stung by injustice, and baffled in the first ardent hopes of his youthful
mind. "The world was all before him, where to choose." Let us not doubt that the benignant
Providence is still his guide.

CHAPTER XXV.

CONQUEST.

The progress of events and our story necessarily brings as back to Charlemont. We shall lose
sight of William Hinkley, henceforth Calvert, for some time; and here, par parenthese, let
us say to our readers that this story being drawn from veritable life, will lack some of that
compactness and close fitness of parts which make our novels too much resemble the course of
a common law case. Instead of having our characters always at hand, at the proper moment, to
do the business of the artist, like so many puppets, each working on a convenient wire, and
waiting to be whistled in upon the scene, we shall find them sometimes absent, as we do in
real life when their presence is most seriously desired, and when the reader would perhaps
prefer that they should come in, to meet or make emergencies. Some are gone whom we should
rather see; some present, whose absence, in the language of the Irishman, would be the best
company they could give us; and some, not forthcoming, like the spirits of Owen Glendower,
even when most stoutly called for. The vast deeps of human progress do not release their tenants
at the beck and call of ordinary magicians, and we, who endeavor to describe events as we find
them, must be content to take them and persons, too, only when they are willing. Were we writing
the dramatic romance, we should be required to keep William Hinkley always at hand, as a convenient
foil to Alfred Stevens. He should watch his progress; pursue his sinuosities of course; trace
him out in all his ill-favored purposes, and be ready, at the first act--having, like the falcon,
by frequent and constantly-ascending gyrations, reached the point of command--to pounce down
upon the fated quarry, and end the story and the strife together. But ours is a social narrative,
where people come and go without much regard to the unities, and without asking leave of the
manager. William Hinkley, too, is a mere man and no hero. He has no time to spare, and he is
conscious that he has already wasted too much. He has work to do and is gone to do it. Let
it console the reader, in his absence, to know that he WILL do it--that his promise is a good
one--and that we have already been shown, in the dim perspective of the future, glimpses of
his course which compensate him for his mishaps, and gladden the heart of his adopted father,
by confirming its prophecies and hopes.

The same fates which deny that he should realize the first fancies of his boyhood, are, in
the end, perhaps, not a jot kinder to others whom they now rather seem to favor. His absence
did not stop the social machine of Charlemont from travelling on very much as before. There
was a shadow over his mother's heart, and his disappearance rather aroused some misgiving and
self-reproachful sensations in that of his father. Mr. Calvert, too, had his touch of hypochondria
in consequence of his increased loneliness, and Ned Hinkley's fighting monomania underwent
startling increase; but, with the rest, the wheel went on without much sensible difference.
The truth is, that, however mortifying the truth may be, the best of us makes but a very small
sensation in his absence. Death is a longer absence, in which our friends either forget us,
or recollect our vices. Our virtues are best acknowledged when we are standing nigh and ready
to enforce them. Like the argumentative eloquence of the Eighth Harry, they are never effectual
until the halberdiers clinch their rivets forcibly.

It does not necessarily impugn the benevolence or wisdom of Providence to show that crime is
successful for a season in its purposes. Vice may prevail, and victims perish, without necessarily
disparaging the career, or impeding the progress of virtue. To show that innocence may fall,
is sometimes to strengthen innocence, so that it may stand against all assailants. To show
vice, even in its moments of success, is not necessarily to show that such success is desirable.
Far from it! As none of us can look very deeply into the future, so it happens that the boon
for which we pray sometimes turns out to be our bane; while the hardship and suffering, whose
approach we deprecate in sackcloth and ashes, may come with healing on their wings, and afford
us a dearer blessing than any ever yet depicted in the loom of a sanguine and brilliant imagination.

We are, after all, humbling as this fact may be to our clamorous vanity, only so many agents
and instruments, blind, and scuffling vainly in our blindness, in the perpetual law of progress.
As a soul never dies, so it is never useless or unemployed. The Deity is no more profligate
in the matter of souls than he is in that of seeds. They pass, by periodical transitions, from
body to body; perhaps from sphere to sphere; and as the performance of their trusts have been
praiseworthy or censurable, so will be the character of their trusts in future. He who has
shown himself worthy of confidence in one state, will probably acquire a corresponding increase
of responsibility in another. He who has betrayed his trusts or impaired them, will share less
of the privileges of the great moral credit system.

In all these transitions, however, work is to be done. The fact that there is a trust, implies
duty and performance; and the practice of virtue is nothing more than the performance of this
work to the best of our abilities. Well, we do not do our work. We fail in our trusts. We abuse
tuem. Such a man as Alfred Stevens abuses them. Such a woman as Margaret Cooper fails in them.
What then? Do we destroy the slave who fails in his duty, or chasten him, and give him inferior
trusts? Do you suppose that the Deity is more profligate in souls than in seeds--that he creates
and sends forth millions of new souls, annually, in place of those which have gone astray?
Hardly so! He is too good an economist for that. We learn this from all the analogies. As a
soul can not perish, so it never remains unemployed. It still works, though its labors may
be confined to a treadmill.

The mere novel-reader may regard all this as so much unnecessary digression. But let him not
deceive himself. It would be the most humiliating and painful thought, indeed, could we believe
that the genius which informs and delights us--which guides the bark of state through a thousand
storms and dangers to its port of safety--which conquers and commands--which sings in melodies
that make melodies in human hearts for thousands of succeeding years--is suddenly to be suspended--to
have no more employment--to do no more work--guide no more states--make no more melodies! Nay,
the pang would be scarcely less to believe that a fair intellect like that of Alfred Stevens,
or a wild, irregular genius, like that of Margaret Cooper--because of its erring, either through
perversity or blindness, is wholly to become defunct, so far as employment is concerned--that
they are to be deprived of all privilege of working up to the lost places--regaining the squandered
talents--atoning, by industry and humble desire, the errors and deficiencies of the past! We
rather believe that heaven is a world where the labors are more elevated, the necessities less
degrading; that it is no more permanent than what we esteem present life; nay, that it is destined
to other transitions; that we may still ascend, on and on, and that each heaven has its higher
heaven yet. We believe that our immortality is from the beginning; that time is only a periodical
step in eternity----that transition is the true meaning of life--and death nothing more than
a sign of progress. It may be an upward or a downward progress, but it is not a toilsome march
to a mere sleep. Lavish as is the bounty of God, and boundless as are his resources, there
is nothing of him that we do know which can justify the idea of such utter profligacy of material.

We transgress. Our business is with the present doings of our dramatis persons and not with
the future employment of their souls. Still, we believe, the doctrine which we teach not only
to be more rational, but absolutely more moral than the conjectures on this subject which are
in ordinary use. More rational as relates to the characteristics of the Deity, and more moral
as it affects the conduct and the purposes of man himself. There is something grand beyond
all things else, in the conception of this eternal progress of the individual nature; its passage
from condition to condition; sphere to sphere; life to life; always busy, working for the mighty
Master; falling and sinking to mere menial toils, or achieving and rising to more noble trusts;
but, at all events, still working in some way in the great world-plantation, and under the
direct eye of the sovereign World-Planter. The torture of souls on the one hand, and the singing
of psalms on the other, may be doctrines infinitely more orthodox; but, to our mind, they seem
immeasurably inferior in grandeur, in propriety, in noble conception of the appointments of
the creature, and the wondrous and lovely designs of the benignant Father.

The defeat of such a soul as that of Margaret Cooper can surely be a temporary defeat only.
It will regain strength, it must rise in the future, it must recover the lost ground, and reassert
the empire whose sway it has unwillingly abandoned; for it is not through will, wholly, by
which we lose the moral eminence. Something is due to human weaknesses; to the blindness in
which a noble spirit is sometimes suffered to grow into stature; disproportioned stature--that,
reaching to heaven, is yet shaken down and overthrown by the merest breath of storm that sweeps
suddenly beneath its skies. The very hopelessness of Margaret Cooper's ambition, which led
her to misanthropy, was the source of an ever-fertile and upspringing confidence. Thus it was
that the favoring opinions which Alfred Stevens expressed--a favoring opinion expressed by
one whom she soon discovered was well able to form one--accompanied by an assurance that the
dream of fame which her wild imagination had formed should certainly be realized, gave him
a large power over her confidence. Her passion was sway--the sway of mind over mind--of genius
over sympathy--of the syren Genius over the subject Love. It was this passion which had made
her proud, which had filled her mind with visions, and yielded to her a world by itself, and
like no other, filled with all forms of worship and attraction; chivalrous faith, unflagging
zeal, generous confidence, pure spirits, and the most unquestioning loyalty! Ignorant of the
world which she had not seen, and of those movements of human passion which she had really
never felt, she naturally regarded Alfred Stevens as one of the noble representatives of that
imaginary empire which her genius continually brought before her eyes. She saw in him the embodiment
of that faith in her intellect which it was the first and last hope of her intellect to inspire;
and seeing thus, it will be easy to believe that her full heart, which, hitherto, had poured
itself forth on rocks, and trees, and solitary places, forgetful of all prudence--a lesson
which she had never learned--and rejoicing in the sympathy of a being like herself, now gushed
forth with all the volume of its impatient fullness.  The adroit art of her companion led her
for ever into herself; she was continually summoned to pour forth the treasures of her mind
and soul; and, toiling in the same sort of egoisme in which her life heretofore had been consumed,
she was necessarily diverted from all doubts or apprehensions of the occult purposes of him
who had thus beguiled her over the long frequented paths. As the great secret of success with
the mere worldling, is to pry into the secret of his neighbor while carefully concealing his
own, so it is the great misfortune of enthusiasm to be soon blinded to a purpose which its
own ardent nature neither allows it to suspect nor penetrate.  Enthusiasm is a thing of utter
confidence; it has no suspicion; it sets no watch on other hearts; it is too constantly employed
in pouring forth the treasures of its own. It is easy, therefore, to deceive and betray it,
to beguile it into confidence, and turn all its revelations against itself. How far the frequency
of this usage in the world makes it honorable, is a question which we need not discuss on this
occasion.

Alfred Stevens had now been for some weeks in the village of Charlemont, where, in the meantime,
he had become an object of constantly-increasing interest. The men shrank from him with a feeling
of inferiority; the women--the young ones being understood--shrank from him also, but with
that natural art of the sex which invites pursuit, and strives to conquer even in flight. But
it was soon evident enough that Stevens bestowed his best regards solely upon Margaret Cooper.
If he sought the rest, it was simply in compliance with those seeming duties of his ostensible
profession which were necessary to maintain appearances. Whether he loved Margaret Cooper or
not, he soon found a pleasure in her society which he sought for in no other quarter of the
village. The days, in spite of the strife with William Hinkley, flew by with equal pleasantness
and rapidity to both. The unsophisticated mind of Margaret Cooper left her sensible to few
restraints upon their ordinary intercourse; and, indeed, if she did know or regard them for
an instant, it was only to consider them as necessary restraints for the protection of the
ignorant and feeble of her sex--a class in which she never once thought to include herself.
Her attachment to Alfred Stevens, though it first arose from the pleasure which her mind derived
from its intercourse with his, and not from any of those nice and curious sympathies of temperament
and taste which are supposed to constitute the essence and comprise the secret of love, was
yet sufficient to blind her judgment to the risks of feeling, if nothing more, which were likely
to arise from their hourly-increasing intimacy; and she wandered with him into the devious
woods, and they walked by moonlight among the solemn-shaded hills, and the unconscious girl
had no sort of apprehension that the spells of an enslaving passion were rapidly passing over
her soul.

How should she apprehend such spells? how break them? For the first time in her life had she
found intellectual sympathy--the only moral response which her heart longed to hear. For the
first time had she encountered a mind which could do justice to, and correspond on anything
like equal terms with, her own. How could she think that evil would ensue from an acquisition
which yielded her the only communion which she had ever craved Her confidence in herself, in
her own strength, and her ignorance of her own passions, were sufficient to render her feelings
secure; and then she was too well satisfied of the superiority and nobleness of his. But, in
truth, she never thought upon the subject. Her mind dwelt only on the divine forms and images
of poetry. The ideal world had superseded, not only the dangers, but the very aspect, of the real.

The young heart, not yet chilled by the world's denials, will readily comprehend the beguiling
influence of the dreaming and enthusiastic nature of some dear spirit, in whose faith it has
full confidence, and whose tastes are kindred with its own. How sweet the luxury of moonlight
in commerce with such a congenial spirit! how heavenly the occasional breath of the sweet southwest!
how gentle and soothing fond the whispers of night--the twiring progress of sad-shining stars--the
gentle sway of winds among the tree-tops--the plaintive moan of billows, as they gather and
disperse themselves along the shores! To speak of these delights; to walk hand-in-hand along
the gray sands by the seaside, and whisper in murmuring tones, that seem to gather sympathies
from those of ocean; to guide the eye of the beloved associate to the sudden object; to challenge
the kindred fancy which comments upon our own; to remember together, and repeat, the happy
verse of inspired poets, speaking of the scene, and to the awakened heart which feels it; and,
more, to pour forth one's own inspirations in the language of tenderness and song, and awaken
in the heart of our companion the rapture to which our own has given speech--these, which are
subjects of mock and scorn to the worldling, are substantial though not enduring joys to the
young and ardent nature.

In this communion, with all her pride, strength, and confidence, Margaret Cooper was the merest
child. Without a feeling of guile, she was dreaming of the greatness which her ambition craved,
and telling her dreams, with all the artless freedom of the child who has some golden fancy
of the future, which it seeks to have confirmed by the lips of experience. The wily Stevens
led her on, gave stimulus to her enthusiasm, made her dreams become reasonable in her eyes,
and laughed at them in his secret heart. She sung at his suggestion, and sang her own verses
with all that natural tremor which even the most self-assured poet feels on such an occasion.

"Beautiful!" the arch-hypocrite would exclaim, as if unconscious of utterance; "beautiful!"
and his hand would possess itself of the trembling fingers of hers. "But beautiful as it is,
Margaret, I am sure that it is nothing to what you could do under more auspicious circumstances."

"Ah! if there were ears to hear, if there were hearts to feel, and eyes to weep, I feel, I
know, what might be done. No, no! this is nothing. This is the work of a child."

"Nay, Margaret, if the work of a child, it is that of a child of genius."

"Ah! do not flatter me, Alfred Stevens, do not deceive me. I am too willing to believe you,
for it is so dear a feeling to think that I too am a poet. Yet, at the first, I had not the
smallest notion of this kind: I neither knew what poetry was, nor felt the desire to be a poet.
Yet I yearned with strange feelings, which uttered themselves in that form ere I had seen books
or read the verses of others. It was an instinct that led me as it would. I sometimes fear
that I have been foolish in obeying it; for oh, what has it brought me? What am I? what are
my joys? I am lonely even with my companions. I share not the sports and feel not the things
which delight my sex. Their dances and frolics give me no pleasure. I have no sympathy with
them or their cares. I go apart--I am here on the hills, or deep in the forests--sad, lonely,
scarcely knowing what I am, and what I desire."

"You are not alone, nor are your pleasures less acute than theirs. If they laugh, their laughter
ends in sleep. If you are sad, you lose not the slightest faculty of perception or sensibility,
but rather gain them in consequence. Laughter and tears are signs neither of happiness nor
grief, and as frequently result from absolute indifference as from any active emotion. If you
are absent from them, you have better company. You can summon spirits to your communion, Margaret;
noble thoughts attend you; eyes that cheer, lips that assure you, and whispers, from unknown
attendants, that bid you be of good heart, for the good time is coming. Ah! Margaret, believe
me when I tell you that time is at hand. Such a genius as yours, such a spirit, can not always
be buried in these woods."

It was in such artful language as this that the arch-hypocrite flattered and beguiled her.
They were wandering along the edge of the streamlet to which we have more than once conducted
the footsteps of the reader. The sun was about setting. The autumn air was mild with a gentle
breathing from the south. The woods were still and meek as the slumbers of an infant. The quiet
of the scene harmonized with the temper of their thoughts and feelings. They sat upon a fragment
of the rock. Margaret was silent, but her eyes were glistening bright--not with hope only,
but with that first glimmering consciousness of a warmer feeling, which gives a purple light
to hope, and makes the heart tremble, for the first time, with its own expectations. It did
not escape Alfred Stevens that, for the first time, her eye sank beneath his glance; for the
first time there was a slight flush upon her cheek. He was careful not to startle and alarm
the consciousness which these signs indicated. The first feeling which the young heart has
of its dependence upon another is one little short of terror; it is a feeling which wakens
up suspicion, and puts all the senses upon the watch. To appear to perceive this emotion is
to make it circumspect; to disarm it, one must wear the aspect of unconsciousness. The wily
Stevens, practised in the game, and master of the nature of the unsuspecting girl, betrayed
in his looks none of the intelligence which he felt. If he uttered himself in the language
of admiration, it was that admiration which would be natural to a profound adorer of literature
and all its professors. His words were those of the amateur:--

"I can not understand, Margaret, how you have studied--how you have learned so much--your books
are few--you have had no masters.  I never met in my life with so remarkable an instance of
unassisted endeavor."

"My books were hero in the woods--among these old rocks. My teacher was solitude. Ah! there
is no teacher like one's own heart. My instinct made me feel my deficiencies--my deficiencies
taught me contemplation--and from contemplation came thoughts and cravings, and you know, when
the consciousness of our lack is greatest, then, even the dumb man finds a voice. I found my
voice in consequence of my wants. My language you see is that of complaint only."

"And a sweet and noble language it is, Margaret; but it is not in poetry alone that your utterance
is so distinct and beautiful--you sing too with a taste as well as power which would prove
that contemplation was as happy in bringing about perfection in the one as in the other art.
Do sing me, Margaret, that little ditty which you sang here the other night?"

His hand gently detained and pressed hers as he urged the request.

"I would rather not sing to-night," she replied, "I do not feel as if I could, and I trust
altogether to feeling. I will sing for you some other time when you do not ask, and, perhaps
would prefer not to hear me."

"To hear you at all, Margaret, is music to my ears."

She was silent, and her fingers made a slight movement to detach themselves from his.

"No, Margaret, do not withdraw them! Let me detain them thus--longer--for ever! My admiration
of you has been too deeply felt not to have been too clearly shown, Your genius is too dear
to me now to suffer me to lose it. Margaret--dear Margaret!"

She spoke not--her breathing became quick and hard.

"You do not speak, let me hope that you are not angry with me?"

"No, no!" she whispered faintly. He continued with more boldness, and while he spoke, his arm
encircled her waist.

"A blessed chance brought me to your village. I saw you and returned. I chose a disguise in
which I might study you, and see how far the treasures of your mind confirmed the noble promise
of your face. They have done more. Like him who finds the precious ore among the mountains,
I can not part with you so found. I must tear you from the soil. I must bear you with me. You
must be mine, Margaret--you must go with me where the world will see, and envy me my prize."

He pressed her to his bosom. She struggled slightly.

"Do not, do not, Alfred Stevens, do not press me--do not keep me. You think too much of me.
I am no treasure--alas! this is all deception. You can not--can not desire it?"

"Do I not! Ah! Margaret, what else do I desire now? Do you think me only what I appear in Charlemont?"

"No! no!"

"I have the power of a name, Margaret, in my profession--among a numerous people--and that
power is growing into wealth and sway. I am feared and honored, loved by some, almost worshipped
by others; and what has led me from this sway, to linger among these hills--to waste hours
so precious to ambition--to risk the influence which I had already secured--what, but a higher
impulse--a dearer prospect--a treasure, Margaret, of equal beauty and genius."

Her face was hidden upon his bosom. He felt the beating of her heart against his hand.

"If you have a genius for song, Margaret Cooper, I, too, am not without my boast. In my profession,
men speak of my eloquence as that of a genius which has few equals, and no superior."

"I know it--it must be so!"

"Move me not to boast, dear Margaret; it is in your ears only that I do so--and only to assure
you that, in listening to my love, you do not yield to one utterly obscure, and wanting in
claims, which, as yours must be finally, are already held to be established and worthy of the
best admiration of the intelligent and wise. Do you hear me, Margaret?"

"I do, I do! It must be as you say. But of love I have thought nothing. No, no! I know not,
Alfred Stevens, if I love or not--if I can love."

"You mistake, Margaret. It is in the heart that the head finds its inspiration. Mere intellect
makes not genius. All the intellect in the world would fail of this divine consummation. It
is from the fountains of feeling that poetry drinks her inspiration. It is at the altars of
love that the genius of song first bends in adoration. You have loved, Margaret, from the first
moment when you sung. It did not alter the case that there was no object of sight.  The image
was in your mind--in your hope. One sometimes goes through life without ever meeting the human
counterpart of this ideal; and the language of such a heart will be that of chagrin--distaste
of life--misanthropy, and a general scorn of his own nature. Such, I trust, is not your destiny.
No, Margaret, that is impossible. I take your doubt as my answer, and unless your own lips
undeceive me, dearest Margaret, I will believe that your love is willing to requite my own."

She was actually sobbing on his breast. With an effort she struggled into utterance.

"My heart is so full, my feelings are so strange--oh! Alfred Stevens, I never fancied I could
be so weak."

"So weak--to love! surely, Margaret, you mistake the word. It is in loving only that the heart
finds its strength. Love is the heart's sole business; and not to exercise it in its duties
is to impair its faculties, and deprive it equally of its pleasures and its tasks. Oh, I will
teach you of the uses of this little heart of yours, dear Margaret--ay, till it grow big with
its own capacity to teach. We will inform each other, every hour, of some new impulses and
objects. Our dreams, our hopes, our fears, and our desires, ah! Margaret--what a study of love
will these afford us. Nor to love only. Ah! dearest, when your muse shall have its audience,
its numerous watching eyes and eager ears, then shall you discover how much richer will be
the strain from your lips once informed by the gushing fullness of this throbbing heart."

She murmured fondly in his embrace, "Ah! I ask no other eyes and ears than yours."

In the glow of a new and overpowering emotion, such indeed was her feeling. He gathered her
up closer in his arms. He pressed his lips upon the rich ripe beauties of hers, as some hungering
bee, darting upon the yet unrifled flower which it first finds in the shadows of the forest,
clings to, and riots on, the luscious loveliness, as if appetite could only be sated in its
exhaustion. She struggled and freed herself from his embrace: but, returning home that evening
her eye was cast upon the ground; her step was set down hesitatingly; there was a tremor in
her heart; a timid expression in her face and manner! These were proofs of the discovery which
she then seems to have made for the first time, that there is a power stronger than mere human
will--a power that controls genius; that mocks at fame; feels not the lack of fortune, and
is independent of the loss of friends! She now first knew her weakness. She had felt the strength
of love! Ah! the best of us may quail, whatever his hardihood, in the day when love asserts
HIS strength and goes forth to victory.

Margaret Cooper sought her chamber, threw herself on the bed, and turned her face in the pillow
to hide the burning blushes which, with every movement of thought and memory, seemed to increase
upon her cheek. Yet, while she blushed and even wept, her heart throbbed and trembled with
the birth of a new emotion of joy. Ah! how sweet is our first secret pleasure--shared by one
other only--sweet to that other as to ourself--so precious to him also. To be carried into
our chamber--to be set up ostentatiously--there, where none but ourselves may see--to be an
object of our constant tendance, careful idolatry, keen suspicion, delighted worship!

Ah! but if the other makes it no idol--his toy only--what shall follow this desecration of
the sacred thing! What but shame, remorse, humiliation, perhaps death!--alas! for Margaret
Cooper, the love which had so suddenly grown into a precious divinity with her, was no divinity
with him. He is no believer. He has no faith in such things, but like the trader in religion,
he can preach deftly the good doctrines which he can not feel and is slow to practise.

CHAPTER XXVI.

FALL.

We should speak unprofitably and with little prospect of being understood, did our readers
require to be told, that there is a certain impatient and gnawing restlessness in the heart
of love, which keeps it for ever feverish and anxious. Where this passion is associated with
a warm, enthusiastic genius, owning the poetic temperament, the anxiety is proportionatly greater.
The ideal of the mind is a sort of classical image of perfect loveliness, chaste, sweet, commanding,
but, how cold! But love gives life to this image, even as the warm rays of the sun falling
upon the sullen lips of the Memnon, compel its utterance in music. It not only looks beauty--it
breathes it. It is not only the aspect of the Apollo, it is the god himself; his full lyre
strung, his golden bow quivering at his back with the majesty of his motion; and his lips parting
with the song which shall make the ravished spheres stoop, and gather round to listen.

Hitherto Margaret Cooper had been a girl of strong will; will nursed in solitude, and by the
wrong-headed indulgence of a vain and foolish mother. She was conscious of that bounding, bursting
soul of genius which possessed her bosom; that strange, moody, and capricious god; pent-up,
denied, crying evermore for utterance, with a breath more painful to endure, because of the
suppression. This consciousness, with the feeling of denial which attended it, had cast a gloomy
intensity over her features not less than her mind. The belief that she was possessed of treasures
which were unvalued--that she had powers which were never to be exercised--that with a song
such as might startle an empire, she was yet doomed to a silent and senseless auditory of rocks
and trees; this belief had brought with it a moody arrogance of temper which had made itself
felt by all around her. In one hour this mood had departed. Ambition and love became united
for a common purpose; for the object of the latter, was also the profound admirer of the former.

The anxious restlessness which her newly-acquired sensations occasioned in her bosom, was not
diminished by a renewal of those tender interviews with her lover, which we have endeavored,
though so faultily, already to describe. Evening after evening found them together; the wily
hypocrite still stimulating, by his glozing artifices, the ruling passion for fame, which,
in her bosom, was only temporarily subservient to love, while he drank his precious reward
from her warm, lovely, and still-blushing lips and cheeks. The very isolation in which she
had previously dwelt in Charlemont, rendered the society of Stevens still more dear to her
heart. She was no longer alone--no longer unknown--not now unappreciated in that respect in
which hitherto she felt her great denial. "Here is one--himself a genius--who can do justice
to mine."

The young poet who finds an auditor, where he has never had one before, may be likened to a
blind man suddenly put in possession of his sight. He sees sun and moon and stars, the forms
of beauty, the images of grace; and his soul grows intoxicated with the wonders of its new
empire. What does he owe to him who puts him in possession of these treasures? who has given
him his sight? Love, devotion, all that his full heart has to pay of homage and affection.

Such was very much the relation which Margaret Cooper bore to Alfred Stevens; and when, by
his professions of love, he left the shows of his admiration no longer doubtful, she was at
once and entirely his. She was no longer the self-willed, imperious damsel, full of defiance,
dreaming of admiration only, scornful of the inferior, and challenging the regards of equals.
She was now a timid, trembling girl--a dependant, such as the devoted heart must ever be, waiting
for the sign to speak, looking eagerly for the smile to reward her sweetest utterance. If now
she walked with Stevens, she no longer led the way; she hung a little backward, though she
grasped his arm--nay, even when her hand was covered with a gentle pressure in the folds of
his. If she sung, she did not venture to meet his eyes, which she FELT must be upon hers, and
now it was no longer her desire that the village damsels should behold them as they went forth
together on their rambles. She no longer met their cunning and significant smiles with confidence
and pride, but with faltering looks, and with cheeks covered with blushes. Great, indeed, was
the change which had come over that once proud spirit--change surprising to all, but as natural
as any other of the thousand changes which are produced in the progress of moments by the arch-magician,
Love. Heretofore, her song had disdained the ordinary topics of the youthful ballad-monger.
She had uttered her apostrophes to the eagle, soaring through the black, billowy masses of
the coming thunder-storm; to the lonely but lofty rock, lonely in its loftiness, which no foot
travelled but her own; to the silent glooms of the forest--to the majesty of white-bearded
and majestic trees. The dove and the zephyr now shared her song, and a deep sigh commonly closed
it. She was changed from what she was. The affections had suddenly bounded into being, trampling
the petty vanities underfoot; and those first lessons of humility which are taught by love,
had subdued a spirit which, hitherto, had never known control.

Alfred Stevens soon perceived how complete was his victory.  He soon saw the extent of that
sudden change which had come over her character. Hitherto, she had been the orator. When they
stood together by the lake-side, or upon the rock, it was her finger which had pointed out
the objects for contemplation; it was her voice whose eloquence had charmed the ear, dilating
upon the beauties or the wonders which they surveyed. She was now no longer eloquent in words.
But she looked a deeper eloquence by far than any words could embody. He was now the speaker;
and regarding him through the favoring media of kindled affections, it seemed to her ear, that
there was no eloquence so sweet as his. He spoke briefly of the natural beauties by which they
were surrounded.

"Trees, rocks, the valley and the hill, all realms of solitude and shade, inspire enthusiasm
and ardor in the imaginative spirit. They are beneficial for this purpose. For the training
of a great poet they are necessary. They have the effect of lifting the mind to the contemplation
of vastness, depth, height, profundity. This produces an intensity of mood--the natural result
of any association between our own feelings and such objects as are lofty and noble in the
external world. The feelings and passions as they are influenced by the petty play of society,
which diffuses their power and breaks their lights into little, become concentrated on the
noble and the grand. Serious earnestness of nature becomes habitual--the heart flings itself
into all the subjects of its interest--it trifles with none--all its labors become sacred in
its eyes, and the latest object of study and analysis is that which is always most important.
The effect of this training in youth on the poetic mind, is to the last degree beneficial;
since, without a degree of seriousness amounting to intensity--without a hearty faith in the
importance of what is to be done--without a passionate fullness of soul which drives one to
his task--there will be no truthfulness, no eloquence, no concentrated thought and permanent
achievement. With, you, dear Margaret, such has already been the effect. You shrink from the
ordinary enjoyments of society. Their bald chat distresses you, as the chatter of so many jays.
You prefer the solitude which feeds the serious mood which you love, and enables your imagination,
unrepressed by the presence of shallow witlings, to evoke its agents from storm and shadow--from
deep forest and lonesome lake--to minister to the cravings of an excited heart, and a soaring
and ambitious fancy."

"Oh, how truly, Alfred, do you speak it," she murmured as he closed.

"So far, so good; but, dear Margaret--there are other subjects of study which are equally necessary
for the great poet. The wild aspects of nature are such as are of use in the first years of
his probation. To grow up in the woods and among the rocks, so that a hearty simplicity, an
earnest directness, with a constant habit of contemplation should be permanently formed, is
a first and necessary object. But it is in this training as in every other. There are successive
steps. There is a law of progressive advance. You must not stop there. The greatest moral study
for the poet must follow. This is the study of man in society--in the great world--where he
puts on a thousand various aspects--far other than those which are seen in the country--in
correspondence with the thousand shapes of fortune, necessity, or caprice, which attend him
there. Indeed, it may safely be said, that he never knows one half of the responsibility of
his tasks who toils without the presence of those for whom he toils. It is in the neighborhood
of man that we feel his and our importance. It is while we are watching his strifes and struggles
that we see the awful importance of his destiny; and the great trusts of self, and truth, and
the future, which have been delivered to his hands. Here you do not see man. You see certain
shapes, which are employed in raising hay, turnips, and potatoes; which eat and drink very
much as man does; but which, as they suffer to sleep and rest most of those latent faculties,
the exercise of which can alone establish the superiority of the intellectual over the animal
nature, so they have no more right to the name of man than any other of those animals who eat
as industriously, and sleep as profoundly, as themselves. The contemplation of the superior
being, engaged in superior toils, awakens superior faculties in the observer. He who sees nothing
but the gathering of turnips will think of nothing but turnips. As we enlarge the sphere of
our observation, the faculty of thought becomes expanded. You will discover this wonderful
change when you go into the world. Hitherto, your inspirers have been these groves, these rocks,
lakes, trees, and silent places. But, when you sit amid crowds of bright-eyed, full-minded,
and admiring people; when you see the eyes of thousands looking for the light to shine from
yours; hanging, with a delight that still hungers, on the words of truth and beauty which fall
from your lips--then, then only, dearest Margaret, will you discover the true sources of inspiration
and of fame."

"Ah!" she murmured despondingly--"you daunt me when you speak of these crowds--crowds of the
intellectual and the wise. What should I be--how would I appear among them?"

"As you appear to me, Margaret--their queen, their idol, their divinity, not less a beauty
than a muse?"

The raptures which Stevens expressed seemed to justify the embrace which followed it; and it
was some moments before she again spoke. When she did the same subject was running in her mind.

"Ah! Alfred, still I fear!"

"Fear nothing, Margaret. It will be as I tell you--as I promise! If I deceive you, I deceive
myself. Is it not for the wife of my bosom that I expect this homage?"

Her murmurs were unheard. They strolled on--still deeper into the mazes of the forest, and
the broad disk of the moon, suddenly gleaming, yellow, through the tops of the trees, sirprised
them in their wanderings.

"How beautiful!" he exclaimed. "Let us sit here, dearest Margaret. The rock here is smooth
and covered with the softest lichen.  A perfect carpet of it is at our feet, and the brooklet
makes the sweetest murmuring as it glides onward through the grove, telling all the while,
like some silly schoolgirl, where you may look for it. See the little drops of moonlight falling
here--and there in the small openings of the forest, and lying upon the greensward like so
many scattered bits of silver. One might take it for fairy coin. And, do you note the soft
breeze that seems to rise with the moon as from some Cytherean isle, breathing of love, love
only--love never perishing!"

"Ah! were it so, Alfred!"

"Is it not, Margaret? If I could fancy that you would cease to love me or I you--could I think
that these dear joys were to end--but no! no! let us not think of it. It is too sweet to believe,
and the distrust seems as unholy as it is unwholesome. That bright soft planet seems to persuade
to confidence as it inspires love. Do you not feel your heart soften in the moonlight, Margaret?
your eye glistens, dearest--and your heart, I know, must be touched. It is--I feel its beating!
What a tumult, dear Margaret, is here!"

"Do not, do not!" she murmured, gently striving to disengage herself from his grasp.

"No! no!--move not, dearest," he replied in a subdued tone--a murmur most like hers. "Are we
not happy? Is there anything, dear Margaret, which we could wish for?"

"Nothing! nothing!"

"Ah! what a blessed chance it was that brought me to these hills. I never lived till now. I
had my joys, Margaret--my triumphs! I freely yield them to the past! I care for them no more!
They are no longer joys or triumphs! Yes, Margaret you have changed my heart within me. Even
fame which I so much worshipped is forgotten."

"Say not that; oh, say not that!" she exclaimed, but still in subdued accents.

"I must--it is too far true. I could give up the shout of applause--the honor of popular favor--the
voice of a people's approbation--the shining display and the golden honor--all, dear Margaret,
sooner than part with you."

"But you need not give them up, Alfred."

"Ah, dearest, but I have no soul for them now. You are alone my soul, my saint--the one dear
object, desire, and pride, and conquest."

"Alas! and have you not conquered, Alfred?"

"Sweet! do I not say that I am content to forfeit all honors, triumphs, applauses--all that
was so dear to me before--and only in the fond faith that I had conquered? You are mine--you
tell me so with your dear lips--I have you in my fond embrace--ah! do not talk to me again
of fame."

"I were untrue to you as to myself, dear Alfred, did I not. No! with your talents, to forego
their uses--to deliver yourself up to love wholly, were as criminal as it would be unwise."

"You shall be my inspiration then, dear Margaret. These lips shall send me to the forum--these
eyes shall reward me with smiles when I return. Your applause shall be to me a dearer triumph
than all the clamors of the populace."

"Let us return home--it is late."

"Not so!--and why should we go? What is sleep to us but loss? What the dull hours, spent after
the ordinary fashion, among ordinary people. Could any scene be more beautiful than this--ah!
can any feeling be more sweet? Is it not so to you, dearest? tell me--nay, do not tell me--if
you love as I do, you can not leave me--not now--not thus--while such is the beauty of earth
and heaven--while such are the rich joys clustering in our hearts. Nay, while, in that hallowing
moonlight, I gaze upon thy dark eyes, and streaming hair, thy fair, beautiful cheeks, and those
dear rosy lips!"

"Oh! Alfred, do not speak so--do not clasp me thus. Let us go. It is late--very late, and what
will they say?"

"Let them say! Are we not blessed? Can all their words take from us these blessings--these
sacred, sweet, moments--such joys, such delights? Let them dream of such, with their dull souls
if they can. No! no! Margaret--we are one! and thus one, our world is as free from their control
as it is superior to their dreams and hopes. Here is our heaven, Margaret--ah! how long shall
it be ours! at what moment may we lose it, by death, by storm, by what various mischance! What
profligacy to fly before the time! No! no! but a little while longer--but a little while!"

And there they lingered! He, fond, artful, persuasive; she, trembling with the dangerous sweetness
of wild, unbidden emotions. Ah! why did she not go? Why was the strength withheld which would
have carried out her safer purpose? The moon rose until she hung in the zenith, seeming to
linger there in a sad, sweet watch, like themselves--the rivulet ran along, still prattling
through the groves; the breeze, which had been a soft murmur among the trees at the first rising
of the moon, now blew a shrill whistle among the craggy hills; but they no longer heard the
prattle of the rivulet--even the louder strains of the breeze were unnoticed, and it was only
when they were about to depart, that poor Margaret discovered that the moon had all the while
been looking down upon them.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE BIRTH OF THE AGONY.

It was now generally understood in Charlemont that Margaret Cooper had made a conquest of the
handsome stranger. We have omitted--as a matter not congenial to our taste--the small by-play
which had been carried on by the other damsels of the village to effect the same object. There
had been setting of caps, without number, ay, and pulling them too, an the truth were known
among the fair Stellas and Clarissas, the Daphnes and Dorises, of Charlemont, but, though Stevens
was sufficiently considerate of the claims of each, so far as politeness demanded it, and contrived
to say pleasant things, pour passer le temps, with all of them, it was very soon apparent to
the most sanguine, that the imperial beauties and imperious mind of Margaret Cooper had secured
the conquest for herself.

As a matter of course, the personal and intellectual attractions of Stevens underwent no little
disparagement as soon as this fact was known. It was now universally understood that he was
no such great things, after all; and our fair friend the widow Thackeray, who was not without
her pretensions to wit and beauty, was bold enough to say that Mr. Stevens was certainly too
fat in the face, and she rather thought him stupid. Such an opinion gave courage to the rest,
and pert Miss Bella Tompkins, a romp of first-rate excellence, had the audacity to say that
he squinted!--and this opinion was very natural, since neither of his eyes had ever rested
with satisfaction on her pouting charms.

It may be supposed that the discontent of the fair bevy, and its unfavorable judgment of himself,
did not reach the ears of Alfred Stevens, and would scarcely have disturbed them if it did.
Margaret Cooper was more fortunate than himself in this respect. She could not altogether be
insensible to the random remarks which sour envy and dark-eyed jealousy continued to let fall
in her hearing; but her scorn for the speakers, and her satisfaction with herself, secured
her from all annoyance from this cause. Such, at least, had been the case in the first days
of her conquest. Such was not exactly the case now. She had no more scorn of others. She was
no longer proud, no longer strong. Her eyes no longer flashed with haughty defiance on the
train which, though envious, were yet compelled to follow. She could no longer speak in those
superior tones, the language equally of a proud intellect, and a spirit whose sensibilities
had neither been touched by love nor enfeebled by anxiety and apprehension. A sad change had
come over her heart and all her features in the progress of a few days. Her courage had departed.
Her step was no longer firm; her eye no longer uplifted like that of the mountain-eagle, to
which, in the first darings of her youthful muse, she had boldly likened herself. Her look
was downcast, her voice subdued; she was now not less timid than the feeblest damsel of the
village in that doubtful period of life when, passing from childhood to girlhood, the virgin
falters, as it were, with bashful thoughts, upon the threshold of a new and perilous condition.
The intercourse of Margaret Cooper with her lover had had the most serious effect upon her
manners and her looks. But the change upon her spirit was no less striking to all.

"I'm sure if I did love any man," was the opinion of one of the damsels, "I'd die sooner than
show it to him, as she shows it to Alfred Stevens. It's a guess what he must think of it."

"And no hard guess neither," said another; "I reckon there's no reason why he should pick out
Margaret Cooper except that he saw that it was no such easy matter any where else."

"Well! there can be no mistake about it with them; for now they're always together--and Betty,
her own maid, thinks--but it's better not to say!"

And the prudent antique pursed up her mouth in a language that said everything.

"What!--what does she say?" demanded a dozen voices.

"Well! I won't tell you that. I won't tell you all; but she does say, among other things, that
the sooner John Cross marries them, the better for all parties."

"Is it possible!"

"Can it be!"

"Bless me! but I always thought something wrong."

"And Betty, her own maid, told you? Well, who should know, if she don't?"

"And this, too, after all her airs!"

"Her great smartness, her learning, and verse-making! I never knew any good come from books yet."

"And never will, Jane," said another, with an equivocal expression, with which Jane was made
content; and, after a full half-hour's confabulation, in the primitive style, the parties separated--each,
in her way, to give as much circulation to Betty's inuendoes as the importance of the affair
deserved.

Scandal travels along the highways, seen by all but the victim. Days and nights passed; and
in the solitude of lonely paths, by the hillside or the rivulet, Margaret Cooper still wandered
with her lover. She heard not the poisonous breath which was already busy with her virgin fame.
She had no doubts, whatever might be the event, that the heart of Alfred Stevens could leave
her without that aliment which, in these blissful moments, seemed to be her very breath of
life. But she felt many fears, many misgivings, she knew not why. A doubt, a cloud of anxiety,
hung brooding on the atmosphere. In a heart which is unsophisticated, the consciousness, however
vague, that all is not right, is enough to produce this cloud; but, with the gradual progress
of that heart to the indulgence of the more active passions, this consciousness necessarily
increases and the conflict then begins between the invading passion and the guardian principle.
We have seen enough to know what must be the result of such a conflict with a nature such as
hers, under the education which she had received. It did not end in the expulsion of her lover.
It did not end in the discontinuance of those long and frequent rambles amid silence, and solitude,
and shadow. She had not courage for this; and the poor, vain mother, flattered with the idea
that her son-in-law would be a preacher, beheld nothing wrong in their nightly wanderings,
and suffered her daughter, in such saintly society, to go forth without restraint or rebuke.

There was one person in the village who was not satisfied that Margaret Cooper should fall
a victim, either to the cunning of another, or to her own passionate vanity. This was our old
friend Calvert. He was rather, inclined to be interested in the damsel, in spite of the ill
treatment of his protege, if it were only in consequence of the feelings with which she had
inspired him. It has been seen that, in the affair of the duel, he was led to regard the stranger
with an eye of suspicion. This feeling had been further heightened by the statements of Ned
Hinkley, which, however loose and inconclusive, were yet of a kind to show that there was some
mystery about Stevens--that he desired concealment in some respects--a fact very strongly inferred
from his non-employment of the village postoffice, and the supposition--taken for true--that
he employed that of some distant town. Ned Hinkley had almost arrived at certainty in this
respect; and some small particulars which seemed to bear on this conviction, which he had recently
gathered, taken in connection with the village scandal in reference to the parties, determined
the old man to take some steps in the matter to forewarn the maiden, or at least her mother,
of the danger of yielding too much confidence to one of whom so little was or could be known.

It was a pleasant afternoon, and Calvert was sitting beneath his roof-tree, musing over this
very matter, when he caught a glimpse of the persons of whom he thought, ascending one of the
distant hills, apparently on their way to the lake. He rose up instantly, and, seizing his
staff, hurried off to see the mother of the damsel. The matter was one of the nicest delicacy--not
to be undertaken lightly--not to be urged incautiously. Nothing, indeed, but a strong sense
of duty could have determined him upon a proceeding likely to appear invidious, and which might
be so readily construed, by a foolish woman, into an impertinence. Though a man naturally of
quick, warm feelings, Calvert had been early taught to think cautiously--indeed, the modern
phrenologist would have said that, in the excess of this prudent organ lay the grand weakness
of his moral nature. This delayed him in the contemplated performance much longer than his
sense of its necessity seemed to justify. Having now resolved, however, and secure in the propriety
of his object, he did not scruple any longer.

A few minutes sufficed to bring him to the cottage of the old lady, and her voice in very friendly
tenor commanded him to enter. Without useless circumlocution, yet without bluntness, the old
man broached the subject; and, without urging any of the isolated facts of which he was possessed,
and by which his suspicions were awakened, he dwelt simply upon the dangers which might result
from such a degree of confidence as was given to the stranger. The long, lonely rambles in
the woods, by night as well as day, were commented on, justly, but in an indulgent spirit;
and the risks of a young and unsuspecting maiden, under such circumstances, were shown with
sufficient distinctness for the comprehension of the mother, had she been disposed to hear.
But never was good old man, engaged in the thankless office of bestowing good advice, so completely
confounded as he was by the sort of acknowledgments which his interference obtained. A keen
observer might have seen the gathering storm while he was speaking; and, at every sentence,
there was a low, running commentary, bubbling up from the throat of the opinionated dame, somewhat
like rumbling thunder, which amply denoted the rising tempest. It was a sort of religious effort
which kept the old lady quiet till Calvert had fairly reached a conclusion. Then, rising from
her seat, she approached him, smoothed back her apron, perked out her chin, and, fixing her
keen gray eyes firmly upon his own, with her nose elongated to such a degree as almost to suggest
the possibility of a pointed collision between that member and the corresponding one of his
own face, she demanded--

"Have you done--have you got through?"

"Yes, Mrs. Cooper, this is all I came to say. It is the suggestion of prudence--the caution
of a friend--your daughter is young, very young, and--"

"I thank you! I thank you! My daughter is young, very young; but she is no fool, Mr. Calvert--let
me tell you that! Margaret Cooper is no fool. If you don't know that, I do. I know her. She's
able to take care of herself as well as the best of us."

"I am glad you think so, Mrs. Cooper, but the best of us find it a difficult matter to steer
clear of danger, and error and misfortune; and the wisest, my dear madam, are only too apt
to fall when they place their chief reliance on their wisdom."

"Indeed! that's a new doctrine to me, and I reckon to everybody else. If it's true, what's
the use of all your schooling, I want to know?"

"Precious little, Mrs. Cooper, if--"

"Ah! precious little; and let me tell you, Mr. Calvert, I think it's mighty strange that you
should think Margaret Cooper in more need of your advice, than Jane Colter, or Betsy Barnes,
or Susan Mason, or Rebecca Forbes, or even the widow Thackeray."

"I should give the same advice to them under the same circumstances, Mrs. Cooper."

"Should you, indeed! Then I beg you will go and give it to them, for if they are not in the
same circumstances now, they'd give each of them an eye to be so. Ay, wouldn't they! Yes! don't
I know, Mr. Calvert, that it's all owing to envy that you come here talking about Brother Stevens."

"But I do not speak of Mr. Stevens, Mrs. Cooper; were it any other young man with whom your
daughter had such intimacy I should speak in the same manner."

"Would you, indeed? Tell that to the potatoes. Don't I know better. Don't I know that if your
favorite, that you made so much of--your adopted son, Bill Hinkley--if he could have got her
to look at him, they might have walked all night and you'd never have said the first word.
He'd have given one eye for her, and so would every girl in the village give an eye for Brother
Stevens. I'm not so old but I know something. But it won't do. You can go to the widow Thackeray,
Mr. Calvert. It'll do her good to tell her that it's very dangerous for her to be thinking
about young men from morning to night. It's true you can't say anything about the danger, for
precious little danger she's in; but, lord, wouldn't she jump to it if she had a chance. Let
her alone for that. You'd soon have cause enough to give her your good advice about the danger,
and much good would come of it. She'd wish, after all was said, that the danger was only twice
as big and twice as dangerous."

Such was the conclusion of Mr. Calvert's attempt to give good counsel. It resulted as unprofitably
in this as in most cases; but it had not utterly fallen, like the wasted seed, in stony places.
There was something in it to impress itself upon the memory of Mrs. Cooper; and she resolved
that when her daughter came in, it should be the occasion of an examination into her feelings
and her relation to the worthy brother, such as she had more than once before meditated to make.

But Margaret Cooper did not return till a comparatively late hour; and the necessity of sitting
up after her usual time of retiring, by making the old lady irritable, had the effect of giving
some additional force to the suggestions of Mr. Calvert. When Margaret did return, she came
alone. Stevens had attended her only to the wicket. She did not expect to find her mother still
sitting up; and started, with an appearance of disquiet, when she met her glance. The young
girl was pale and haggard. Her eye had a dilated, wild expression. Her step faltered; her voice
was scarcely distinct as she remarked timidly--

"Not yet abed, mother?"

"No! it's a pretty time for you to keep me up."

"But why did you sit up, mother? It's not usual with you to do so."

"No! but it's high time for me to sit up, and be on the watch too, when here's the neighbors
coming to warn me to do so--and telling me all about your danger."

"Ha! my danger--speak--what danger, mother?"

"Don't you know what danger? Don't you know?"

"Know!" The monosyllable subsided in a gasp. At that moment Margaret Cooper could say no more.

"Well, I suppose you don't know, and so I'll tell you. Here's been that conceited, stupid old
man, Calvert, to tell me how wrong it is for you to go out by night walking with Brother Stevens;
and hinting to me that you don't know how to take care of yourself with all your learning;
and how nobody knows anything about Brother Stevens; as if nobody was wise for anything but
himself. But I gave him as good as he brought, I'll warrant you. I sent him off with a flea
in his ear!"

It was fortunate for the poor girl that the light, which was that of a dipped candle, was burning
in the corner of the chimney, and was too dim to make her features visible. The ghastly tale
which they told could not have been utterly unread even by the obtuse and opinionated mind
of the vain mother. The hands of Margaret were involuntarily clasped in her agony, and she
felt very much like falling upon the floor; but, with a strong effort, her nerves were braced
to the right tension, and she continued to endure, in a speechless terror, which was little
short of frenzy, the outpourings of her mother's folly which was a frenzy of another sort.

"I sent him off," she repeated, "with a flea in his ear. I could see what the old fool was
driving after, and I as good as told him so. If it had been his favorite, his adopted son,
Bill Hinkley, it would have been another guess-story--I reckon. Then you might have walked
out where you pleased together, at all hours, and no harm done, no danger; old Calvert would
have thought it the properest thing in the world. But no Bill Hinkley for me. I'm for Brother
Stevens, Margaret; only make sure of him, my child--make sure of him."

"No more of this, dear mother, I entreat you. Let us go to bed, and think no more of it."

"And why should we not think of it? I tell you, Margaret, YOU MUST THINK OF IT! Brother Stevens
soon will be a preacher, and a fine speck he will be. There'll be no parson like him in all
west Kentucky. As for John Cross, I reckon he won't be able to hold a candle to him. Brother
Stevens is something to try for. You must play your cards nicely, Margaret. Don't let him see
too soon that you like him. Beware of that! But don't draw off too suddenly as if you didn't
like him--that's worse still; for very few men like to see that they ain't altogether pleasing
even at first sight to the lady that they like. There's a medium in all things, and you must
just manage it, as if you wa'n't thinking at all about him, or love, or a husband, or anything;
only take care always to turn a quick ear to what he says, and seem to consider it always as
if 'twas worth your considering. And look round when he speaks, and smile softly sometimes;
and don't be too full of learning and wisdom in what you say, for I've found that men of sense
love women best when they seem to talk most like very young children--maybe because they think
it's a sign of innocence. But I reckon, Margaret, you don't want much teaching. Only be sure
and fix him; and don't stop to think when he asks. Be sure to have your answer ready, and you
can't say 'yes' too quickly now-a-days, when the chances are so very few."

The mother paused to take breath. Her very moral and maternal counsel had fallen upon unheeding
ears. But Margaret was sensible of the pause, and was desirous of taking advantage of it. She
rose from her chair, with the view of retiring; but the good old dame, whose imagination had
been terribly excited by the delightful idea of having a preacher for her son-in-law who was
to take such precedence over all the leaders of the other tribes, was not willing to abridge
her eloquence.

"Why, you're in a great hurry now, Margaret. Where was your hurry when you were with Brother
Stevens? Ah! you jade, can't I guess--don't I know? There you were, you two, under the trees,
looking at the moon, and talking such sweet, foolish nonsense. I reckon, Margaret, 'twould
puzzle you to tell what HE said, or what YOU said, I can guess he didn't talk much religion
to you, heh? Ah! I know it all. It's the old story. It's been so with all young people, and
will bo so till the end. Love is the strangest thing, and it does listen to the strangest nonsense.
Ain't it so, Margaret? I know nothing but love would ever dumbfounder you in this way; why,
child, have you lost your tongue? What's the matter with you?"

"Oh, mother, let me retire now, I have such a headache."

"Heartache, you mean."

"Heartache it is," replied the other desperately, with an air of complete abandonment.

"Ah! well, it's clear that he's got the heartache quite as much as you, for he almost lives
with you now. But make him speak out, Margaret--get him to say the word, and don't let him
be too free until he does. No squeezing of hands, no kissing, no--"

"No more, no more, I entreat you, mother, if you would not--drive me mad! Why do you speak
to me thus--why counsel me in this manner? Leave me alone, I pray you, let me retire--I must--I
must sleep now!"

The mother was not unaccustomed to such passionate bursts of speech from her daughter, and
she ascribed the startling energy of her utterance now, to an excited spirit in part, and partly
to the headache of which she complained.

"What! do you feel so bad, my child? Well, I won't keep you up any longer. I wouldn't have
kept you up so long, if I hadn't been vexed by that old fool, Calvert."

"Mr. Calvert is a good man, mother."

"Well, he may be--I don't say a word against that," replied the mother, somewhat surprised
at the mildly reproachful nature of that response which her daughter had made, so different
from her usual custom:--"he may be very good, but I think he's very meddlesome to come here
talking about Brother Stevens."

"He meant well, mother."

"Well or ill, it don't matter. Do you be ready when Brother Stevens says the word. He'll say
it before long. He's mighty keen after you, Margaret. I've seen it in his eyes; only you keep
a little off, till he begins to press and be anxious; and after that he can't help himself.
He'll be ready for any terms; and look you, when a man's ready none of your long bargains.
Settle up at once. As for waiting till he gets permission to preach, I wouldn't think of it.
A man can be made a preacher or anything, at any time, but 'tain't so easy in these times,
for a young woman to be made a wife. It's not every day that one can get a husband, and such
a husband! Look at Jane Colter, and Betsy Barnes, and Rebecca Forbes, and Susan Mason; they'll
be green again, I reckon, before the chance comes to them; ay, and the widow Thackeray--though
she's had her day already. If 'twas a short one she's got no reason to complain. She'll learn
how to value it before it begins again. But, go to bed, my child, you oughtn't to have a headache.
No! no! you should leave it to them that's not so fortunate. They'll have headaches and heartaches
enough, I warrant you, before they get such a man as Brother Stevens."

At last, Margaret Cooper found herself alone and in her chamber. With unusual vigilance she
locked and doublelocked the door. She then flung herself upon the bed. Her face was buried
in the clothes. A convulsion of feeling shook her frame. But her eyes remained dry, and her
cheeks were burning. She rose at length and began to undress, but for this she found herself
unequal. She entered the couch and sat up in it--her hands crossed upon her lap--her face wan,
wild, the very picture of hopelessness if not desperation! The words of her weak mother had
tortured her; but what was this agony to that which was occasioned by her own thoughts.

"Oh God!" she exclaimed at length, "can it be real? Can it be true? Do I wake? Is it no dream?
Am I, am I what I dare not name to myself--and dread to hear from any other? Alas! it is true--too
true. That shade, that wood!--oh, Alfred Stevens! Alfred Stevens! What have you done! To what
have you beguiled me!"

CHAPTER XXVIII

STRENGTH AFTER FALL.

That weary night no sleep came to the eyelids of the hapless Margaret Cooper. The garrulous
language of the mother had awakened far other emotions in her bosom than those which she labored
to inspire; and the warning of Mr. Calvert, for the first time impressed upon herself the terrible
conviction that she was lost. In the wild intoxicating pleasures of that new strange dream,
she had been wofully unconscious of the truth. So gradual had been the progress of passion,
that it had never alarmed or startled her. Besides, it had come to her under a disguise afforded
by the customary cravings of her soul. Her vanity had been the medium by which her affections
had been won, by which her confidence had been beguiled, by which the guardian watchers of
her virtue had been laid to sleep.

What a long and dreadful night was that when Margaret Cooper was first brought to feel the
awful truth in its true impressiveness of wo. Alas! how terribly do the pleasures of sin torture
us. The worst human foe is guilt. The severest censure the consciousness of wrong doing. Poverty
may be endured--nay is--and virtue still be secure; since the mind may be made strong to endure
the heaviest toil, yet cherish few desires; the loss of kin may call for few regrets, if we
feel that we have religiously performed our duties toward them, and requited all their proper
claims upon us. Sickness and pain may even prove benefits and blessings, if it shall so happen
that we resign ourselves without complaint, to the scourge of the chastener, and grow patient
beneath his stripes. But that self-rebuke of one's own spirit from which we may not fly--that
remorseful and ever-vexing presence which haunts us, and pursues with a wing even more fleet
than that of fear--which tells clamorously of what we had, and scornfully of what we have lost--lost
for ever!  that is the demon from whom there is no escape, and beyond whom there is no torture.
Vainly would we strive with this relentless enemy. Every blow aimed at its shadowy bosom recoils
upon our own. In the crowd, it takes the place of other forms and dogs us with suspicious glances;
in the solitude, it stalks boldly to our side, confronts us with its audacious truths and terrible
denunciations--leaves no moment secure, waking or sleeping! It is the ghost of murdered virtue,
brooding over its grave in that most dark and dismal of all sepulchres, the human heart. And
if we cry aloud, as did Margaret Cooper, with vain prayer for the recall of a single day, with
what a yell of derisive mockery it answers to our prayer.

The night was passed in the delusive effort of the mind to argue itself into a state of fancied
security. She endeavored to recall those characteristics in Alfred Stevens, by which her confidence
had been beguiled. This task was not a difficult one in that early day of her distress; before
experience had yet come to confirm the apprehensions of doubt--before the intoxicating dream
of a first passion had yet begun to stale upon her imagination. Her own elastic mind helped
her in this endeavor. Surely, she thought, where the mind is so noble and expansive, where
the feelings are so tender and devoted, the features so lofty and impressive, the look so sweet,
the language so delicate and refined, there can be no falsehood.

"The devotion of such a man," she erringly thought, "might well sanction the weakness of a
woman's heart--might well persuade to the momentary error which none will seek more readily
to repair than himself. If he be true to me, what indeed should I care for the scorn of others."

Alas! for the credulous victim. This was the soul of her error. This scorn of others--of the
opinions of the world around her, is the saddest error of which woman, who is the most dependant
of all beings in the moral world, can ever be guilty. But such philosophy did not now deceive
even the poor girl by whom it was uttered. It is a melancholy truth, that, where there is no
principle, the passions can not be relied on; and the love of Alfred Stevens had hitherto shown
itself in selfishness. Margaret Cooper felt this, but she did not dare to believe it.

"No! no!" she muttered--"I will not doubt--I will not fear! He is too noble, too generous,
too fond! I could not be deceived."

Her reliance was upon her previous judgment, not upon his principles. Her self-esteem assisted
to make this reference sufficient for the purposes of consolation, and this was all that she
desired in this first moment of her doubt and apprehension.

"And if he be true--if he keep for ever the faith that his lips and looks declare--then will
I heed nothing of the shame and the sin. The love of such a man is sufficient recompense for
the loss of all besides. What to me is the loss of society? what should I care for the association
and opinions of these in Charlemont? And elsewhere--he will bear me hence where none can know.
Ah! I fear not: he will be true."

Her self-esteem was recovering considerably from its first overthrow. Her mind was already
preparing to do battle with those, the scorn of whom she anticipated, and whose judgments she
had always hitherto despised. This was an easy task. She was yet to find that it was not the
only task. Her thoughts are those of many, in like situations, and it is for this reason that
we dwell upon them. Our purpose is, to show the usual processes of self-deception.

Margaret Cooper, like a large class of persons of strong natural mind and sanguine temper,
was only too apt to confound the cause of virtue with its sometimes uncouth, harsh and self-appointed
professors. She overlooked the fact that public opinion, though a moral object against which
woman dares not often offend, is yet no standard for her government; that principles are determinable
elsewhere; and that, whatever the world may think of them, and whatever may be their seeming
unimportance under existing circumstances, are the only real moral securities of earth. She
might fly from Charlemont, either into a greater world, or into a more complete solitude, but
she would fly to no greater certainties than she now possessed. Her securities were still based
upon the principles of Alfred Stevens, and of these she knew nothing. She knew that he was
a man of talent--of eloquence; alas for her! she had felt it; of skill--she had been its victim;
of rare sweetness of utterance, of grace and beauty; and as she enumerated to herself these
his mental powers and personal charms, she felt, however numerous the catalogue, that none
of these afforded her the guaranty she sought.

She arose the next day somewhat more composed, and with a face which betrayed sleeplessness,
but nothing worse. This she ascribed to the headache with which she had retired. She had not
slept an instant, and she arose entirely unrefreshed. But the stimulating thoughts which had
kept her wakeful, furnished her with sufficient strength to appear as usual in the household,
and to go through her accustomed duties. But it was with an impatience scarcely restrainable
that she waited for the approach of evening which would bring her lover. Him she felt it now
absolutely of the last necessity that she should see; that she should once more go with him
to those secret places, the very thougnt of which inspired her with terror, and, laying bare
her soul to his eyes, demand of him the only restitution which he could make.

He came. Once more she descended the steps to meet him--Her mother arrested her on the stairway.
A cunning leer was in her eye, as she looked into the woful, impassive eyes of her daughter.
She grinned with a sort of delight expressive of the conviction that the advice she had given
the night before was to be put in execution soon.

"Fix him, Margaret; he's mighty eager for you. You've cut your eye-tooth--be quick, and you'll
have a famous parson for a husband yet."

The girl shrunk from the counsellor as if she had been a serpent. The very counsel was enough
to show her the humiliating attitude in which she stood to all parties.

"Remember," said the old woman, detaining her--"don't be too willing at first. Let him speak
fairly out. A young maiden can't be too backward, until the man offers to make her a young wife!"

The last words went to her soul like an arrow.

"A young maiden!" she almost murmured aloud, as she descended the steps--"O God! how lovely
now, to my eyes, appears the loveliness of a young maiden!"

She joined Stevens in silence, the mother watching them with the eyes of a maternal hawk as
they went forth together. They pursued a customary route, and, passing through one of the gorges
of the surrounding hills, they soon lost sight of the village. When the forest-shadows had
gathered thickly around them, and the silence of the woods became felt, Stevens approached
more nearly, and, renewing a former liberty, put his arm about her waist. She gently but firmly
removed it, but neither of them spoke a word. A dense copse appeared before them. Toward it
he would have led the way. But she resolutely turned aside, and, while a shudder passed over
her frame, exclaimed--

"Not there--not there!"

Breathlessly she spoke. He well enough understood her. They pursued an opposite direction,
and, in the shade of a wood which before they had never traversed, they at length paused. Stevens,
conducting her to the trunk of a fallen tree, seated her, and placed himself beside her. Still
they were silent. There was a visible constraint upon both. The thoughts and feelings of both
were alike active--but very unlike in character. With him, passion, reckless passion, was uppermost;
selfish in all its phases, and resolute on its own indulgence at every hazard. In her bosom
was regret if not remorse, mingled with doubts and hopes in pretty equal proportion. Yet had
she, even then, but little doubt of him. She accused him of no practice. She fancied, foolish
girl, that his error, like her own, had been that of blind impulse, availing itself of a moment
of unguarded reason to take temporary possession of the citadel of prudence. That he was calculating,
cunning--that his snares had been laid beforehand--she had not the least idea. But she was
to grow wiser in this and other respects in due season. How little did she then conjecture
the coldness and hardness of that base and selfish heart which had so fanned the consuming
flame in hers!

Her reserve and coolness were unusual. She had been the creature, heretofore, of the most uncalculating
impulse. The feeling was spoken, the thought uttered, as soon as conceived. Now she was silent.
He expected her to speak--nay, he expected reproaches, and was prepared to meet them. He had
his answer for any reproaches which she might make. But for that stony silence of her lips
he was not prepared. The passive grief which her countenance betrayed--so like despair--repelled
and annoyed him. Yet, wherefore had she come, if not to complain bitterly, and, after exhaustion,
be soothed at last? Such had been his usual experience in all such cases. But the unsophisticated
woman before him had no language for such a situation as was hers. Her pride, her ambition--the
very intensity of all her moods--rendered the effort at speech a mockery, and left her dumb.

"You are sad, Margaret--silent and very cold to me," he said, at last breaking the silence.
His tones were subdued to a whisper, and how full of entreating tenderness! She slowly raised
her eyes from the ground, and fixed them upon him. What a speech was in that one look! There
was no trace of excitement, scarcely of expression, in her face. There was no flush upon her
cheeks. She was pale as death. She was still silent. Her eye alone had spoken; and from its
searching but stony glance his own fell in some confusion to the ground. There was a dreary
pause, which he at length broke:--

"You are still silent, Margaret--why do you not speak to me?"

"It is for you to speak, Alfred," was her reply. It was full of significance, understood but
not FELT by her companion. What, indeed, had she to say--what could she say--while he said
nothing? She was the victim. With him lay the means of rescue and preservation. She but waited
the decision of one whom, in her momentary madness, she had made the arbiter of her destiny.
Her reply confused him. He would have preferred to listen to the ordinary language of reproach.
Had she burst forth into tears and lamentations--had she cried, "You have wronged me--you must
do me justice!"--he would have been better pleased than with the stern, unsuggestive character
that she assumed. To all this, his old experience would have given him an easy answer. But
to be driven to condemn himself--to define his own doings with the name due to his deserts--to
declare his crime, and proffer the sufficient atonement--was an unlooked-for necessity.

"You are displeased with me, Margaret."

He dared not meet her glance while uttering this feeble and purposeless remark. It was so short
of all that he should have said--of all that she expected--that her eyes glistened with a sudden
expression of indignation which was new to them in looking upon him. There was a glittering
sarcasm in her glance, which showed the intensity of her feelings in the comment which they
involuntarily made on the baldness and poverty of his. Displeasure, indeed! That such an epithet
should be employed to describe the withering pang, the vulturous, gnawing torture in her bosom--and
that fiery fang which thought, like some winged serpent, was momentarily darting into her brain!

"Displeased!" she exclaimed, in low, bitter tones, which she seemed rather desirous to suppress--"no,
no! sir--not displeased. I am miserable, most miserable--anything but displeased. I am too
wretched to feel displeasure!"

"And to me you owe this wretchedness, dear Margaret--THAT--THAT is what you would say. Is it
not, Margaret? I have wronged--I have ruined you! From me comes this misery! You hate, you
would denounce me."

He put his arm about her waist--he sank upon his knee beside her--his eye, now that he had
found words, could once more look courageously into hers.

"Wronged--ruined!" she murmured, using a part of his words, and repeating them as if she did
not altogether realize their perfect sense.

"Ay, you would accuse me, Margaret," he continued--"you would reproach and denounce me--you
hate me--I deserve it--I deserve it."

She answered with some surprise:--

"No, Alfred Stevens, I do not accuse--I do not denounce you. I am wretched--I am miserable.
It is for you to say if I am wronged and ruined. I am not what I was--I know THAT!--What I
am--what I will be!--"

She paused! Her hands were clasped suddenly and violently--she looked to heaven, and, for the
first time, the tears, streamed from her eyes like rain--a sudden, heavy shower, which was
soon over.

"Ah, Margaret, you would have me accuse myself--and I do. The crime is mine! I have done you
this wrong---"

She interrupted him.

"No, Alfred Stevens, I have done wrong! I FEEL that I have done wrong. That I have been feeble
and criminal, I KNOW. I will not be so base as to deny what I can not but feel. As for your
crime, you know best what it is. I know mine. I know that my passions are evil and presumptuous;
and though I blush to confess their force, it is yet due to the truth that I should do so,
though I sink into the earth with my shame. But neither your self-reproaches nor my confession
will acquit us. Is there nothing, Alfred Stevens, that can be done? Must I fall before you,
here, amidst the woods which have witnessed my shame, and implore you to save me? I do! Behold
me! I am at your feet--my face is in fhe dust. Oh! Alfred Stevens--when I called your eyes
to watch, in the day of my pride, the strong-winged eagle of our hills, did I look as now?
Save me from this shame! save me! For, though I have no reproaches, yet God knows, when we
looked on that eagle's flight together, my soul had no such taint as fills it now. Whatever
were my faults, my follies, my weaknesses, Heaven knows, I felt not, feared not this! a thought--a
dream of such a passion, then--never came to my bosom. From you it came! You put it there!
You woke up the slumbering emotion--you--but no!--I will not accuse you! I will only implore
you to save me! Can it be done? can you do it--will you--will you not?"

"Rise, dearest Margaret--let me lift you!" She had thrown herself upon the earth, and she clung
to it.

"No, no! your words may lift me, Alfred Stevens, when your hands can not. If you speak a hope,
a promise of safety, it will need no other help to make me rise! If you do not!--I would not
wish to rise again. Speak! let me hear, even as I am, what my doom shall be?  The pride which
has made me fall shall be reconciled to my abasement."

"Margaret, this despair is idle. There is no need for it. Do I not tell you that there is no
danger?"

"Why did you speak of ruin?" she demanded.

"I know not--the word escaped me. There is no ruin. I will save you. I am yours--yours only.
Believe me, I will do you right. I regard you as sacredly my wife as if the rites of the church
had so decreed it."

"I dare not disbelieve you, Alfred! I have no hope else. Your words lift me! Oh! Alfred Stevens,
you did not mean the word, but how true it was; what a wreck, what a ruin do I feel myself
now--what a wreck have I become!"

"A wreck, a ruin! no, Margaret, no! never were you more beautiful than at this very moment.
These large, sad eyes--these long, dark lashes seem intended to bear the weight of tears. These
cheeks are something paler than their wont, but not less beautiful, and these lips--"

He would have pressed them with his own--he would have taken her into his arms, but she repulsed
him.

"No, no! Alfred--this must not be. I am yours. Let me prove to you that I am firm enough to
protect your rights from invasion."

"But why so coy, dearest? Do you doubt me?"

"Heaven forbid!"

"Ah! but you do. Why do you shrink from me--why this coldness? If you are mine, if these charms
are mine, why not yield them to me? I fear, Margaret, that you doubt me still?"

"I do not--dare not doubt you, Alfred Stevens. My life hangs upon this faith."

"Why so cold, then?"

"I am not cold. I love you--I will be your wife; and never was wife more faithful, more devoted,
than I will be to you; but, if you knew the dreadful agony which I have felt, since that sad
moment of my weakness, you would forbear and pity me."

"Hear me, Margaret; to-morrow is Saturday. John Cross is to be here in the evening. He shall
marry us on Sunday. Are you willing?"

"Oh, yes! thankful, happy! Ah! Alfred, why did I distrust you for an instant?"

"Why, indeed! But you distrust me no longer--you have no more misgivings?"

"No, none!"

"You will be no longer cold, no longer coy, dear Margaret--here in the sweet evening, among
these pleasant shades, love, alone, has supremacy. Here, in the words of one of your favorites:--

   "'Where transport and security entwine,
    Here is the empire of thy perfect bliss,
    And here thou art a god--'"

concluding this quotation, he would have taken her in his embrace--he would have renewed those
dangerous endearments which had already proved so fatal; but she repulsed the offered tenderness,
firmly, but with gentleness.

"Margaret, you still doubt me," he exclaimed reproachfully.

"No, Alfred, I doubt you not. I believe you. I have only been too ready and willing to believe
you. Ah! have you not had sufficient proof of this? Leave me the consciousness of virtue--the
feeling of strength still to assert it, now that my eyes are open to my previous weakness."

"But there is no reason to be so cold. Remember you are mine by every tie of the heart--another
day will make you wholly mine.  Surely, there is no need for this frigid bearing. No, no! you
doubt--you do not believe me, Margaret!"

"If I did not believe you, Alfred Stevens," she answered gravely, "my prayer would be for death,
and I should find it. These woods which have witnessed my fault should have witnessed my expiation.
The homes which have known me should know me no more."

The solemnity of her manner rather impressed him, but having no real regard for her, he was
unwilling to be baffled in his true desires.

"If you doubt me not--if you have faith in me, Margaret, why this solemnity, this reserve?
Prove to me, by your looks, by your actions, by the dear glances, the sweet murmurs, and the
fond embrace, what these cold assurances do not say."

His hand rested on her neck. She gently raised and removed it.

"I have already proved to you my weakness. I will now prove my strength. It is better so, Alfred.
If I have won your love, let me now command your esteem, or maintain what is left me of my
own. Do not be angry with me if I insist upon it. I am resolute now to be worthy of you and
of myself."

"Ah! you call this love?" said he bitterly. "If you ever loved, indeed, Margaret--"

"If I ever loved--and have I given you no proofs?" she exclaimed in a burst of passion; "all
the proofs that a woman can give, short of her blood; and that, Alfred Stevens--that too, I
was prepared to give, had you not promptly assured me of your faith."

She drew a small dagger from her sleeve, and bared it beneath his glance.

"Think you I brought this without an object? No! Alfred Stevens--know me better! I came here
prepared to die, as well as a frail and erring woman could be prepared. You disarmed the dagger.
You subdued the determination when you bid me live for you. In your faith, I am willing to
live. I believe you, and am resolved to make myself worthy of your belief also. I have promised
to be your wife, and here before Heaven, I swear to be your faithful wife; but, until then,
you shall presume in no respect. Your lip shall not touch mine; your arms shall not embrace
me; you shall see, dear Alfred, that, with my eyes once opened fully upon my own weakness,
I have acquired the most certain strength."

"Give me the dagger," he said.

She hesitated.

"You doubt me still?"

"No, no!" she exclaimed, handing him the weapon--"no, no! I do not doubt you--I dare not. Doubt
you, Alfred?--that were death, even without the dagger!"

CHAPTER XXIX

BULL-PUPS IN TRAINING.

Alfred Stevens was sufficiently familiar with the sex to perceive that Margaret Cooper was
resolved. There was that in her look and manner which convinced him that she was not now to
be overcome. There was no effort or constraint in either her looks or language. The composure
of assured strength was there. The discovery of her weakness, which he had so unexpectedly
made, had rendered her vigilant. Suspecting herself--which women are not apt to do--she became
watchful, not only of the approach of her lover, but of every emotion of her own soul; and
it was with a degree of chagrin which he could scarcely refrain from showing, that he was compelled
to forego, at least for the present, all his usual arts of seduction.

Yet he knew not how to refrain. Never had Margaret Cooper seemed so lovely in his eyes, so
commanding, so eloquent with beauty, as now, when remorse had touched her eyes with an unwonted
shadow, and tears and nightwatching had subdued the richer bloom upon her cheek. Proud still,
but pensive in her pride, she walked silently beside him, still brooding over thoughts which
she would not willingly admit were doubts, and grasping every word of assurance that fell from
his lips as if it had been some additional security.

These assurances he still suffered to escape him, with sufficient frequency and solemnity,
to confirm that feeling of confidence which his promise of marriage had inspired in her mind.
There was a subdued fondness in his voice, and an EMPRESSMENT in his manner, which was not
all practice. The character which Margaret Cooper had displayed in this last interview--her
equal firmness and fear--the noble elevation of soul which, admitting her own errors, disdained
to remind him of his--a course which would have been the most ready of adoption among the weaker
and less generous of the sex--had touched him with a degree of respect akin to admiration;
and so strong was the impression made upon him of her great natural superiority of mind to
almost all the women he had ever met, that, but for her one unhappy lapse, he had sought no
other wife. Had she been strong at first as she proved herself at last, this had been inevitable.

When in his own chamber that night, he could not help recalling to his memory the proud elevation
of her character as it had appeared in that interview. The recollection really gave him pain,
since along with it arose the memory also of that unfortunate frailty, which became more prominent
as a crime in connection with that intellectual merit which, it is erroneously assumed, should
have made it sure.

"But for that, Margaret Cooper, and this marriage were no vain promise. But that forbids. No,
no--no spousals for me: let John Cross and the bride be ready or not, there shall be a party
wanting to that contract! And yet, what a woman to lose! what a woman to win! No tragedy queen
ever bore herself like that. Talk of Siddons, indeed! SHE would have brought down the house
in that sudden prostration--that passionate appeal. She made even me tremble.  I could have
loved her for that, if for that only. To make ME tremble! and with such a look, such an eye,
such a stern, sweet, fierce beauty! By Heavens! I know not how to give her up. What a sensation
she would make in Frankfort! Were she my wife--but no, no! bait for gudgeons! I am not so great
a fool as that. She who is mine on my terms, is yours, sir, or yours--is anybody's, when the
humor suits and the opportunity. I can not think of that. Yet, to lose her is as little to
be thought of. I must manage it. I must get her off from this place. It need not be to Frankfort!
Let me see--there is--hum!--hum!--yes, a ride of a few miles--an afternoon excursion--quite
convenient, yet not too near. It must be managed; but, at all events, I must evade this marriage--put
it off for the present--get some decent excuse. That's easy enough, and for the rest, why,
time that softens all things, except man and woman, time will make that easy too. To-morrow
for Ellisland, and the rest after."

Thus, resolving not to keep his vows to his unhappy victim, the criminal was yet devising plans
by which to continue his power over her. These plans, yet immature in his own mind, at least
unexpressed, need not be analyzed here, and may be conjectured by the reader.

That night, Stevens busied himself in preparing letters. Of these he wrote several. It will
not further our progress to look over him as he writes; and we prefer rather, in this place,
to hurry on events which, it may be the complaint of all parties, reader not omitted, have
been too long suffered to stagnate. But we trust not. Let us hurry Stevens through Friday night--the
night of that last interview.

Saturday morning, we observe that his appetite is unimpaired. He discusses the breakfast at
Hinkley's as if he had never heard of suffering. He has said an unctuous grace. Biscuits hot,
of best Ohio flour, are smoking on his plate. A golden-looking mass of best fresh butter is
made to assimilate its luscious qualities with those of the drier and hotter substance. A copious
bowl of milk, new from the dugs of old Brindle, stands beside him, patiently waiting to be
honored by his unscrupulous but not unfastidious taste. The grace is said, and the gravy follows.
He has a religious regard for the goods and gifts of this life. He eats heartily, and the thanks
which follow, if not from the bottom of the soul, were sufficiently earnest to have emanated
from the bottom of his stomach.

This over, he has a chat with his hosts. He discusses with old Hinkley the merits of the new
lights. What these new lights were, at that period, we do not pretend to remember. Among sectarians,
there are periodical new lights which singularly tend to increase the moral darkness. From
these, after a while, they passed to the love festivals or feasts--a pleasant practice of the
methodist church, which is supposed to be very promotive of many other good things besides
love; though we are constrained to say that Brother Stevens and Brother Hinkley--who, it may
be remarked, had very long and stubborn arguments, frequently without discovering, till they
reached the close, that they were thoroughly agreed in every respect except in words--concurred
in the opinion that there was no portion of the church practice so highly conducive to the
amalgamation of soul with soul, and all souls with God, as this very practice of love-feasts!

Being agreed on this and other subjects, Mr. Hinkley invited Brother Stevens out to look at
his turnips and potatoes; and when this delicate inquiry was over, toward ten o'clock in the
day, Brother Stevens concluded that he must take a gallop; he was dyspeptic, felt queerish,
his studies were too close, his mind too busy with the great concerns of salvation. These are
enough to give one dyspepsia. Of course, the hot rolls and mountains of volcanic butter--steam-ejecting--could
have produced no such evil effects upon a laborer in the vineyard. At all events, a gallop
was necessary, and the horse was brought. Brother Hinkley and our matronly sister of the same
name watched the progress of the pious youth, as, spurring up the hills, he pursued the usual
route, taking at first the broad highway leading to the eastern country.

There were other eyes that watched the departure of Brother Stevens with no less interest,
but of another kind, than those of the venerable couple. Our excellent friend Calvert started
up on hearing the tread of the horse, and, looking out from his porch, ascertained with some
eagerness of glance that the rider was Alfred Stevens.

Now, why was the interest of Calvert so much greater on this than on any other previous occasion?
We will tell you, gentle reader. He had been roused at an early hour that morning by a visit
from Ned Hinkley.

"Gran'pa," was the reverent formula of our fisherman at beginning, "to-day's the day. I'm pretty
certain that Stevens will be riding out to-day, for he missed the last Saturday. I'll take
my chance for it, therefore, and brush out ahead of him. I think I've got it pretty straight
now, the place that he goes to, and I'll see if I can't get there soon enough to put myself
in a comfortable fix, so as to see what's a-going on and what he goes after. Now, gran'pa,
I'll tell you what I want from you--them pocket-pistols of your'n. Bill Hinkley carried off
grandad's, and there's none besides that I can lay hold on."

"But, Ned, I'm afraid to lend them to you."

"What 'fraid of?"

"That you'll use them."

"To be sure I will, if there's any need, gran'pa. What do I get them for?"

"Ah, yes! but I fear you'll find a necessity where there is none. You'll be thrusting your
head into some fray in which you may lose your ears."

"By Jupiter, no! No, gran'pa, I'll wait for the necessity. I won't look for it. I'm going straight
ahead this time, and to one object only. I think Stevens is a rascal, and I'm bent to find
him out. I've had no disposition to lick anybody but him, ever since he drove Bill Hinkley
off--you and him together."

"You'll promise me, Ned?"

"Sure as a snag in the forehead of a Mississippi steamer. Depend upon me."

"But there must be no quarrelling with Stevens either, Ned."

"Look you, gran'pa, if I'm to quarrel with Stevens or anybody else, 'twouldn't be your pistols
in my pocket that would make me set on, and 'twouldn't be the want of 'em that would make me
stop. When it's my cue to fight, look you, I won't need any prompter, in the shape of friend
or pistol. Now THAT speech is from one of your poets, pretty near, and ought to convince you
that you may as well lend the puppies and say no more about it. If you don't you'll only compel
me to carry my rifle, and that'll be something worse to an enemy, and something heavier for
me. Come, come, gran'pa, don't be too scrupulous in your old age. YOUR HAVING them is a sufficient
excuse for MY HAVING them too. It shows that they ought to be had."

"You're logic-chopping this morning, Ned--see that you don't get to man-chopping in the afternoon.
You shall have the pistols, but do not use them rashly. I have kept them simply for defence
against invasion; not for the purpose of quarrel, or revenge."

"And you've kept them mighty well, gran'pa," replied the young man, as he contemplated with
an eye of anxious admiration, the polish of the steel barrels, the nice carving of the handles,
and the fantastic but graceful inlay of the silver-mounting and setting. The old man regarded
him with a smile.

"Yes, Ned, I've kept them well. They have never taken life, though they have been repeatedly
tried upon bull's eye and tree-bark. If you will promise me not to use them to-day, Ned, you
shall have them."

"Take 'em back, gran'pa."

"Why?"

"Why, I'd feel the meanest in the world to have a we'pon, and not use it when there's a need
to do so; and I'm half afraid that the temptation of having such beautiful puppies for myself--twin-puppies,
I may say--having just the same look out of the eyes, and just the same spots and marks, and,
I reckon, just the same way of giving tongue--I'm half afraid, I say, that to get to be the
owner of them, might tempt me to stand quiet and let a chap wink at me--maybe laugh outright--may
be suck in his breath, and give a phew-phew-whistle just while I'm passing! No! no! gran'pa,
take back your words, or take back your puppies. Won't risk to carry both. I'd sooner take
Patsy Rifle, with all her weight, and no terms at all."

"Pshaw, Ned, you're a fool."

"That's no news, gran'pa, to you or me. But it don't alter the case. Put up your puppies."

"No, Ned; you shall have them on your own terms. Take 'em as they are. I give them to you."

"And I may shoot anybody I please this afternoon, gran'pa?"

"Ay, ay, Ned--; anybody--"

Thus far the old man, when he stopped himself, changed his manner, which was that of playful
good-humor, to that of gravity, while his tones underwent a corresponding change--

"But, Ned, my son, while I leave it to your discretion, I yet beg you to proceed cautiously--seek
no strife, avoid it--go not into the crowd--keep from them where you see them drinking, and
do not use these or any weapons for any trifling provocation. Nothing but the last necessity
of self-preservation justifies the taking of life."

"Gran'pa--thank you--you've touched me in the very midst of my tender-place, by this handsome
present. One of these puppies I'll name after you, and I'll notch it on the butt. The other
I'll call Bill Hinkley, and I won't notch that. Yours, I'll call my pacific puppy, and I'll
use it only for peace-making purposes. The other I'll call my bull-pup, and him I'll use for
baiting and butting, and goring. But, as you beg, I promise you I'll keep 'em both out of mischief
as long as I can. Be certain sure that it won't be my having the pups that'll make me get into
a skrimmage a bit the sooner; for I never was the man to ask whether my dogs were at hand before
I could say the word, 'set-on!' It's a sort of nature in a man that don't stop to look after
his weapons, but naturally expects to find 'em any how, when his blood's up, and there's a
necessity to do."

This long speech and strong assurance of his pacific nature and purposes, did not prevent the
speaker from making, while he spoke, certain dextrous uses of the instrument's which were given
into his hands. Right and left were equally busy; one muzzle was addressed to the candle upon
the mantelpiece, the other pursued the ambulatory movements of a great black spider upon the
wall. The old man surveyed him with an irrepressible smile. Suddenly interrupting himself the
youth exclaimed:--

"Are they loaded, gran'pa?"

He was answered in the negative.

"Because, if they were," said he, "and that great black spider was Brother Stevens, I'd show
you in the twinkle of a musquito, how I'd put a finish to his morning's work. But I'd use the
bull-pup, gran'pa--see, this one--the pacific one I'd empty upon him with powder only, as a
sort of feu de joie--and then I'd set up the song--what's it? ah! Te Deum. A black spider always
puts me in mind of a rascal."

CHAPTER XXX.

THE FOX IN THE TRAP.

The youth barely stopped to swallow his breakfast, when be set off from the village. He managed
his movements with considerable caution; and, fetching a circuit from an opposite quarter,
after having ridden some five miles out of his way, passed into the road which he suspected
that Stevens would pursue. We do not care to show the detailed processes by which he arrived
at this conclusion. The reader may take for granted that he had heard from some way-side farmer,
that a stranger rode by his cottage once a week, wearing such and such breeches, and mounted
upon a nag of a certain color and with certain qualities. Enough to say, that Ned Hinkley was
tolerably certain of his route and man.

He sped on accordingly--did not once hesitate at turns, right or left, forks and crossroads,
but keeping an inflexible course, he placed himself at such a point on the road as to leave
it no longer doubtful, should Stevens pass, of the place which usually brought him up. Here
he dismounted, hurried his horse, out of sight and hearing, into the woods, and choosing a
position for himself, with some nicety, along the road-side, put himself in close cover, where,
stretching his frame at length, he commenced the difficult labor of cooling his impatience
with his cogitations.

But cogitating, with a fellow of his blood, rather whets impatience. He was monstrous restiff.
At his fishing pond, with a trout to hook, he would have lain for hours, as patient as philosophy
itself, and as inflexible as the solid rock over which he brooded. But without an angle at
his hand, how could he keep quiet? Not by thinking, surely; and, least of all, by thinking
about that person for whom his hostility was so active. Thinking of Stevens, by a natural association,
reminded him of the pistols which Calvert had given him. Nothing could be more natural than
to draw them from his bosom. Again and again he examined them in fascinated contemplation.
He had already charged them, and he amused himself by thinking of the mischief he could do,
by a single touch upon the trigger, to a poor little wood-rat, that once or twice ran along
a decaying log some five steps from his feet. But his object being secrecy, the rat brushed
his whiskers in safety. Still he amused himself by aiming at this and other objects, until
suddenly reminded of the very important difference which he had promised Calvert to make between
the pistols in his future use of them. With this recollection he drew out his knife, and laid
the weapons before him.

"This," said he, after a careful examination, in which he fancied he discovered some slight
difference between them in the hang of the trigger--"this shall be my bull-pup--this my peace-maker!"

The latter was marked accordingly with a "P," carved rudely enough by one whose hand was much
more practised in slitting the weasand of a buck, than in cutting out, with crayon, or Italian
crow-quill, the ungainly forms of the Roman alphabet. Ned Hinkley shook his head with some
misgiving when the work was done; as he could not but see that he had somewhat impaired the
beauty of the peacemaker's butt by the hang-dog looking initial which he had grafted upon it.
But when he recollected the subordinate uses to which this "puppy" was to be put, and considered
how unlikely, in his case, it would be exposed to sight in comparison with its more masculine
brother, he grew partially reconciled to an evil which was now, indeed, irreparable.

It does not require that we should bother the reader with the numberless thoughts and fancies
which bothered our spy, in the three mortal hours in which he kept his watch. Nothing but the
hope that he should ultimately be compensated to the utmost by a full discovery of all that
he sought to know, could possibly have sustained him during the trying ordeal. At every new
spasm of impatience which he felt, he drew up his legs, shifted from one side to the other
and growled out some small thunder in the shape of a threat that "it would be only so much
the worse for him when the time came!" HIM--meaning Stevens.

At last Stevens came. He watched the progress of his enemy with keen eyes; and, with his "bull-pup"
in his hand, which a sort of instinct made him keep in the direction of the highway, he followed
his form upon the road. When he was out of sight and hearing, the spy jumped to his feet. The
game, he felt, was secure now--in one respect at least.

"He's for Ellisland. That was no bad guess then. He might have been for Fergus, or Jonesboro',
or Debarre, but there's no turn now in the clear track to Ellisland. He's there for certain."

Ned Hinkley carefully restored his pistols to his bosom and buttoned up. He was mounted in
a few moments, and pressing slowly forward in pursuit. He had his own plans which we will not
attempt to fathom; but we fear we shall be compelled to admit that he was not sufficiently
a gentleman to scruple at turning scout in a time of peace (though, with him, by the way, and
thus he justified, he is in pursuit of an enemy, and consequently is at war), and dodging about,
under cover, spying out the secrets of the land, and not very fastidious in listening to conversation
that does not exactly concern him. We fear that there is some such flaw in the character of
Ned Hinkley, though, otherwise, a good, hardy fellow--with a rough and tumble sort of good
nature, which, having bloodied your nose, would put a knife-handle down your back, and apply
a handful of cobwebs to the nasal extremity in order to arrest the haemorrhage. We are sorry
that there is such a defect in his character; but we did not put it there. We should prefer
that he should be perfect--the reader will believe us--but there are grave lamentations enough
over the failures of humanity to render our homilies unnecessary. Ned Hinkley was not a gentleman,
and the only thing to be said in his behalf, is, that he was modest enough to make pretensions
to the character. As he once said in a row the company muster:--

"I'm blackguard enough, on this occasion, to whip e'er a gentleman among you!"

Without any dream of such a spectre at his heels to disturb his imagination, Alfred Stevens
was pursuing his way toward Ellisland, at that easy travelling gait, which is the best for
man and beast, vulgarly called a "dog-trot." Some very fine and fanciful people insist upon
calling it a "jog-trot." We beg leave, in this place, to set them right. Every trot is a jog,
and so, for that matter, is every canter. A dog-trot takes its name from the even motion of
the smaller quadruped, when it is seized with no particular mania, and is yet disposed to go
stubbornly forward. It is in more classical dialect, the festina lente motion. It is regularly
forward, and therefore fast--it never puts the animal out of breath, and is therefore slow.
Nobody ever saw a dog practice this gait, with a tin canister at his tail, and a huddle of
schoolboys at his heels. No! it is THE travelling motion, considering equally the health of
all parties, and the necessity of getting on.

In this desire, Ned Hinkley pressed too closely on the heels of Stevens. He once nearly overhauled
him; and falling back, he subdued his speed, to what, in the same semi-figurative language,
he styled "the puppy-trot." Observing these respective gaits, Brother Stevens rode into Ellisland
at a moderately late dinner-hour, and the pursuer followed at an unspeakable, but not great,
distance behind him. We will, henceforward, after a brief glance at Ellisland, confine ourselves
more particularly to the progress of Brother Stevens.

Ellisland was one of those little villages to which geographers scarcely accord a place upon
the maps. It is not honored with a dot in any map that we have ever seen of Kentucky. But,
for all this, it is a place! Some day the name will be changed into Acarnania or Etolia, Epirus
or Scandinavia, and then be sure you shall hear of it. Already, the village lawyers--there
are two of them--have been discussing the propriety of a change to something classical; and
we do not doubt that, before long, their stupidity will become infectious. Under these circumstances
Ellisland will catch a name that will stick. At present you would probably never hear of the
place, were it not necessary to our purposes and those of Brother Stevens.

It has its tavern and blacksmith shop--its church--the meanest fabric in the village--its postoffice
and public well and trough. There is also a rack pro bono publico, but as it is in front of
the tavern, the owner of that establishment has not wholly succeeded in convincing the people
that it was put there with simple reference to the public convenience. The tavern-keeper is,
politically, a quadrupled personage. He combines the four offices of post-master, justice of
the peace, town council, and publican; and is considered a monstrous small person with all.
The truth is, reader--this aside--he has been democrat and whig, alternately, every second
year of his political life. His present politics, being loco-foco, are in Ellisland considered
contra bonos mores. It is hoped that he will be dismissed from office, and a memorial to that
effect is in preparation; but the days of Harrison--"and Tyler too"--have not yet come round,
and Jerry Sunderland, who knows what his enemies arc driving at, whirls his coat-skirts, and
snaps his fingers, in scorn of all their machinations. He has a friend at Washington, who spoons
in the back parlor of the white-house--in other words, is a member o f the kitchen-cabinet,
of which, be it said, en passant, there never was a president of the United States yet entirely
without one--and--there never will be! So much for politics and Ellisland.

There was some crowd in the village on the day of Brother Stevens's arrival. Saturday is a
well known day in the western and southern country for making a village gathering; and when
Brother Stevens, having hitched his horse at the public rack, pushed his way to the postoffice,
he had no small crowd to set aside. He had just deposited his letters, received others in return,
answered some ten or fifteen questions which Jerry Sunderland, P. M., Q. U., N. P., M. C.,
publican and sinner--such were all deservedly his titles--had thought it necessary to address
to him, when he was suddenly startled by a familiar tap upon the shoulder; such a tap as leads
the recipient to imagine that he is about to be honored with the affectionate salutation of
some John Doe or Richard Roe of the law. Stevens turned with some feeling of annoyance, if
not misgiving, and met the arch, smiling, and very complacent visage of a tall, slender young
gentleman in black bushy whiskers and a green coat, who seized him by the hand and shook it
heartily, while a chuckling half-suppressed laughter gurgling in his throat, for a moment,
forbade the attempt to speak. Stevens seemed disquieted and looked around him suspiciously.

"What! you here, Ben?"

"Ay, you see me! You didn't expect to see me, Warham---"

"Hush!" was the whispered word of Stevens, again looking round him in trepidation.

"Oh! ay!" said the other with a sly chuckle, and also in a whisper, "Mr. Stevens--Brother Stevens--hem!
I did not think. How is your holiness to-day?"

"Come aside," muttered Stevens; and, taking the arm of the incautious speaker, he led him away
from the crowd and took the way out of the village. Their meeting and departure did not occasion
much, if any, sensation. The visitors in the village were all too busy in discussing the drink
and doctrines, pretty equally distributed, of Jerry the publican. But there was one eye that
noted the meeting of the friends; that beheld the concern and confusion of Stevens: that saw
their movements, and followed their departing steps.

"Take your horse--where is he?" demanded Stevens.

"Here, at hand; but what do you mean to do?"

"Nothing, but get out of hearing and sight; for your long tongue, Ben, and significant face,
would blab any secret, however deep."

"Ah! did I not say that I would find you out? Did you get my last letter?"

"Ay, I did: but I'm devilish sorry, Ben, that you've come. You'll do mischief. You have always
been a mar-plot."

"Never, never! You don't know me."

"Don't I?--but get your horse, and let's go into the woods, while we talk over matters."

"Why not leave the nags here?"

"For a very good reason. My course lies in that direction, so that I am in my way; while yours,
if your purpose be to go back to Frankfort, will lie on the upper side. Neither of us need
come back to the village."

"And you think to shuffle me off so soon, do you?"

"What would you have me do?"

"Why, give us a peep at this beauty--this Altamira of yours--at least."

"Impossible! Do not think of it, Ben; you'd spoil all. But, get the horse. These billet-heads
will suspect mischief if they see us talking together, particularly whon they behold your conceited
action. This political landlord will surmise that you are a second Aaron Burr, about to beat
up recruits to conquer California. Your big whiskers--what an atrocious pair!--with your standing
collar, will confirm the impression."

The two were soon mounted, and rode into the adjoining woods. They were only a stone's-throw
from the village, when Stevens alighted, followed by his companion. They hitched their horses
to some swinging branches of a sheltering tree, and, going aside a few paces beyond, seated
themselves upon the grass, as they fancied, in a place of perfect security.

"And now, Ben, what in truth brings you here?" demanded Stevens, in tones of voice and with
a look which betrayed anything but satisfaction with the visit.

"Curiosity, I tell you, and the legs of my horse."

"Pshaw! you have some other motive."

"No, 'pon honor. I resolved to find you out--to see what you were driving at, and where. I
could only guess a part from your letter to Barnabas, and that costive scrawl with which you
honored me. Perhaps, too--and give my friendship credit for the attempt--I came with some hope
to save you."

"Save me--from what?"

"Why, wedlock--the accursed thing! The club is in terror lest you should forget your vows.
So glowing were your descriptions of your Cleopatra, that we knew not what to make. We feared
everything."

"Why, Barnabas might have opened your eyes: he knew better."

"You're not married, then?"

"Pshaw! no."

"Nor engaged?"

The other laughed as he replied:--

"Why, on that head, the least said the better. The roving commission permits you to run up
any flag that the occasion requires."

"Ah, you sly dog!--and what success?"

"Come, come, Ben, you must not be so inquisitive. The game's my own, you know; and the rules
of the club give me immunity from a fellow-member."

"By Gad, I'll resign! I must see this forest beauty."

"Impossible!"

"Where's she? How will you prevent?"

"By a very easy process. Do you know the bird that shrieks farthest from her young ones when
the fowler is at hand? I'll follow her example."

"I'll follow you to the uttermost ends of the earth, Warham!"

"Hush! you forget! Am I not Brother Stevens? Ha! ha! ha! You are not sufficiently reverent,
brother. See you no divinity in my look and bearing? Hark you, Ben, I've been a sort of small
divinity in the eyes of a whole flock for a month past!"

"You pray?"

"And preach!"

"Ha! ha! ha!--devilish good; but I must see you in order to believe. I must, indeed, Brother
Stevens. Why, man, think of it--success in this enterprise will make you head of the fraternity--you
will be declared pope: but you must have witnesses!"

"So I think; and hark ye, Ben"--laying a finger on the arm of the other--"I am successful!"

"What! you don't say so! This queen, this princess of Egypt, Cleopatra, Altamira--eh?"

"Is mine--soul and body--she is mine!"

"And is what you say? Come, come, you don't mean that such a splendid woman as you describe--such
a genius, poet, painter, musician--beauty too!--you don't mean to say that--"

"I do, every bit of it."

"'Gad! what a fellow!--what a lucky dog! But you must let me see her, Warham!"

"What! to spoil all--to blurt out the truth?--for, with every disposition to fib, you lack
the ability. No, no, Ben: when the game's up--when I'm tired of the sport, and feel the necessity
of looking out fresh viands--you shall then know all; I'll give the clue into your own hands,
and you may follow it to your heart's content. But not now!"

"But how will you get rid of me, mon ami, if my curiosity is stubborn?"

"Do as the kill-deer does--travel from the nest--go home with you, rather than you should succeed
in your impertinence, and have you expelled from the club for thrusting your spoon into the
dish of a brother-member."

"You're a Turk, with no bowels of compassion. But, at all events, you promise me the dish when
you're done with it? you give me the preference?"

"I do!"

"Swear by Beelzebub and Mohammed; by Jupiter Ammon and Johannes Secundus; by the ghost of Cardinal
Bembo, and the gridiron of the fraternity!"

"Ay, and by the virginity of Queen Elizabeth!"

"Simulacrum! no! no! no such oath for me! That's swearing by the thing that is not, was not--could
not be! You shall swear by the oaths of the club--you must be bound on the gridiron of the
fraternity, before I believe you. Swear!"

"You are as tenacious as the ghost of buried Denmark But you shall be satisfied. I swear by
the mystic gridiron of the fraternity, and by the legs thereof, of which the images are Beelzebub,
Mohammed, Johannes Secundus, and so forth--nay, by that memorable volume, so revered in the
eyes of the club, the new edition of 'The Basiad,' of which who among us has been the true
exponent?--that profound mystery of sweets, fathomed hourly, yet unfathomable still--for which
the commentators, already legions, are hourly becoming legions more;--by these, and by the
mysteries of the mirror that reflects not our own, but the image we desire;--by these things--by
all things that among the brotherhood are held potent--I swear to--"

"Give me the preference in the favor of this princess; the clue to find her when you have left
her; and the assurance that you will get a surfeit as soon as possible: swear!"

"Nay, nay! I swear not to that last! I shall hold on while appetite holds, and make all efforts
not to grow dyspeptic in a hurry. I'll keep my stomach for a dainty, be sure, as long as I
can. I were no brother, worthy of our order, if I did not."

"Well, well--to the rest! Swear to the rest, and I am satisfied."

"You go back, then, instanter?"

"What! this very day?"

"This hour!"

"The d---l! you don't mean THAT, Warham?" returned the other in some consternation.

"Ay, this very hour! You must swear to that. Your oath must precede mine."

"Ah! man, remember I only got here last night--long ride--hard-trotting horse. We have not
seen each other for months. I have a cursed sight to tell you about the boys--girls too--love,
law, logic, politics. Do you know they talk of running you for the house?"

"All in good season, Ben; not now. No, no! you shall see me when you least look for me, and
there will be time enough for all these matters then. They'll keep. For the present, let me
say to you that we must part now within the hour. You must swear not to dog my steps, and I
will swear to give you carte blanche, and the first privileges at my princess, when I leave
her. This is my bargain. I make no other."

"I've a great mind not to leave you," said the other doggedly.

"And what will that resolution bring you, do you fancy? Do you suppose I am to be tracked in
such a manner? No, Ben! The effect will be to make me set off for the east instantly, whether
you go with me or not; and an equally certain effect will be to make us cut loose for ever."

"You're a d---d hard colt to manage," said the other moodily.

"I sha'n't let myself be straddled by every horse-boy, I assure you."

"Come, come, old fellow, that's too much like horse-play. Don't be angry with me. I'll accept
your conditions."

"Very good," said Stevens; "if you did not, Ben, it would be no better for you; for, otherwise,
you should never even see my beauty!"

"Is she so very beautiful, old boy?"

"A queen, I tell you! a proud, high-spirited, wild beauty of the mountains--a thing of fire
and majesty--a glorious woman, full of song and sentiment and ambition--a genius, I tell you--who
can improvise like Corinne, and, by the way, continually reminds one of that glorious creature.
In Italy, she would have been greater than Corinne."

"And you've won her--and she loves you?"

"Ay--to doting! I found her a sort of eagle--soaring, striving--always with an eye upon the
hills, and fighting with the sunbeams. I have subdued her. She is now like a timid fawn that
trembles at the very falling of a leaf in the forests. She pants with hope to see me, and pants
with tremulous delight when I come. Still, she shows every now and then, a glimmering of that
eagle spirit which she had at first. She flashes up suddenly, but soon sinks again. Fancy a
creature, an idolater of fame before, suddenly made captive by love, and you have a vain, partial
image of my forest-princess."

"What a lucky dog! You'll marry her yet, old boy, in spite of all!"

"Pshaw! You are green to talk so."

"You'll be devilish loath to give her up; I'm afraid I'll have to wait a cursed long time."

"No, not long! Do not despair. Easy won, easy valued."

"And was she easily won?"

"Very! the game was a short one. She is a mere country-girl, you know, but eighteen or thereabouts--suspecting
nobody, and never dreaming that she had a heart or passions at all. She thought only of her
poetry and her books. It was only necessary to work upon heart and passions while talking of
poetry and books, and they carried her out of her depth before she could recover. She's wiser
now, Ben, I can assure you, and will require more dexterity to keep than to conquer."

"And she has no brother to worry a body--no d---d ugly Hobnail, who has a fancy for her, and
may make a window between the ribs of a gallant, such as nature never intended, with the ounce-bullet
of some d---d old-fashioned seven-foot rifle--eh?"

"There was a silly chap, one Hinkley, who tried it on me--actually challenged me, though I
was playing parson, and there might have been work for me but for his own bull-headed father,
who came to my rescue, beat the boy and drove him from the place. There is nobody else to give
me any annoyance, unless it be a sort of half-witted chap, a cousin of the former--a sleepy
dog that is never, I believe, entirely awake unless when he's trout-fishing. He has squinted
at me, as if he could quarrel if he dared, but the lad is dull--too dull to be very troublesome.
You might kiss his grandmother under his nose, and he would probably regard it only as a compliment
to her superior virtues, and would thank you accordingly--"

A voice a little to the left interrupted the speaker.

"So he does, my brave parson, for his grandmother's sake and his own," were the words of the
speaker. They turned in sudden amaze to the spot whence the sounds issued. The bushes opening
in this quarter, presented to the astonished eyes of Brother Stevens, the perfect image of
the dull lad of whom he had been speaking. There was Ned Hinkley in proper person--perfectly
awake, yet not trout-fishing! A sarcastic grin was upon his visage, and rolling his eyes with
a malicious leer, he repeated the words which had first interrupted the progress of the dialogue
between the friends.

"I thank you, Brother Stevens, for the compliment to my grandmother's virtues. I thank you,
on her account as well as my own. I'm very grateful, I assure you, very grateful, very!"

CHAPTER XXXI.

"ABSQUATULATING."

Had a bolt suddenly flashed and thundered at the feet of the two friends, falling from a clear
sky in April, they could not have been more astounded. They started, as with one impulse, in
the same moment to their feet.

"Keep quiet," said the intruder; "don't let me interrupt you in so pleasant a conversation.
I'd like to hear you out. I'm refreshed by it. What you say is so very holy and sermon-like,
that I'm like a new man when I hear it. Sit down, Brother Stevens, and begin again; sit down,
Ben, my good fellow, and don't look so scary! You look as if you had a window in your ribs
already!"

The intruder had not moved, though he had startled the conspirators. He did not seem to share
in their excitement. He was very coolly seated, with his legs deliberately crossed, while his
two hands parted the bushes before him in order to display his visage--perhaps with the modest
design of showing to the stranger that his friend had grievously misrepresented its expression.
Certainly, no one could say that, at this moment, it lacked anything of spirit or intelligence.
Never were eyes more keen--never were lips more emphatically made to denote sarcasm and hostility.
The whole face was alive with scorn, and hate, and bitterness; and there was defiance enough
in the glance to have put wings to fifty bullets.

His coolness, the composure which his position and words manifested, awakened the anger of
Brother Stevens as soon as the first feeling of surprise had passed away. He felt, in a moment,
that the game was up with him--that he could no longer play the hypocrite in Charlemont. He
must either keep his pledges to Margaret Cooper, without delay or excuse, or he must abandon
all other designs which his profligate heart may have suggested in its cruel purposes against
her peace.

"Scoundrel!" he exclaimed; "how came you here? What have you heard?"

"Good words, Brother Stevens. You forget, you are a parson."

"Brain the rascal!" exclaimed the whiskered stranger, looking more fierce than ever. The same
idea seemed to prompt the actions of Stevens. Both of them, at the same moment, advanced upon
the intruder, with their whips uplifted; but still Ned Hinkley did not rise. With his legs
still crossed, he kept his position, simply lifting from the sward beside him, where they had
been placed conveniently, his two "puppies." One of these he grasped in his right hand and
presented as his enemies approached.

"This, gentlemen," said he, "is my peace-maker. It says, 'Keep your distance.' This is my bull-pup,
or peace-breaker; it says, 'Come on.' Listen to which you please. It's all the same to me.
Both are ready to answer you, and I can hardly keep 'em from giving tongue. The bull-pup longs
to say something to you, Brother Stevens--the pacificator is disposed to trim your whiskers,
Brother Ben; and I say, for 'em both, come on, you black-hearted rascals, if you want to know
whether a girl of Charlemont can find a man of Charlemont to fight her battles. I'm man enough,
by the Eternal, for both of you!"

The effect of Hinkley's speech was equally great upon himself and the enemy. He sprang to his
feet, ere the last sentence was concluded, and they recoiled in something like indecent haste.
The language of determination was even more strongly expressed by the looks of the rustic than
by his language and action. They backed hurriedly at his approach.

"What! won't you stand?--won't you answer to your villanies?--won't you fight? Pull out your
barkers and blaze away, you small-souled scamps; I long to have a crack at you--here and there--both
at a time! Aint you willing? I'm the sleepy trout-fisherman! Don't you know me? You've waked
me up, my lads, and I sha'n't sleep again in a hurry! As for you, Alfred Stevens--you were
ready to fight Bill Ilinkley--here's another of the breed--won't you fight him?"

"Yes--give me one of your pistols, if you dare, and take your stand," said Stevens boldly.

"You're a cunning chap--give you one of my puppies--a stick for my own head--while this bush-whiskered
chap cudgels me over from behind. No! no! none of that! Besides, these pistols were a gift
from a good man, they sha'n't be disgraced by the handling of a bad one. Get your own weapons,
Brother Stevens, and every man to his tree."

"They are in Charlemont!"

"Well!--you'll meet me there then?"

"Yes!" was the somewhat eager answer of Stevens, "I will meet you there--to-morrow morning--"

"Sunday--no! no!"

"Monday, then; this evening, if we get home in season."

"It's a bargain then," replied Hinkley, "though I can hardly keep from giving you the teeth
of the bull! As for big-whiskered Ben, there, I'd like to let him taste my pacificator. I'd
just like to brush up his whiskers with gun-powder--they look to have been done up with bear's
grease before, and have a mighty fine curl; but if I wouldn't frizzle them better than ever
a speckled hen had her feathers frizzled, then I don't know the virtues of gun-powder. On Monday
morning, Brother Stevens!"

"Ay, ay! on Monday morning!"

Had Ned Hinkley been more a man of the world--had he not been a simple backwoodsman, he would
have seen, in the eagerness of Stevens to make this arrangement, something, which would have
rendered him suspicious of his truth. The instantaneous thought of the arch-hypocrite, convinced
him that he could never return to Charlemont if this discovery was once made there. His first
impulse was to put it out of the power of Ned Hinkley to convey the tidings. We do not say
that he would have deliberately murdered him; but, under such an impulse of rage and disappointment
as governed him in the first moments of detection, murder has been often done. He would probably
have beaten him into incapacity with his whip--which had a heavy handle--had not the rustic
been sufficiently prepared. The pistols of Stevens were in his valise, but he had no purpose
of fighting, on equal terms, with a man who spoke with the confidence of one who knew how to
use his tools; and when the simple fellow, assuming that he would return to Charlemont for
his chattels, offered him the meeting there, he eagerly caught at the suggestion as affording
himself and friend the means of final escape.

It was not merely the pistols of Hinkley of which he had a fear. But he well knew how extreme
would be the danger, should the rustic gather together the people of Ellisland, with the story
of his fraud, and the cruel consequences to the beauty of Charlemont, by which the deception
had been followed. But the simple youth, ignorant of the language of libertinism, had never
once suspected the fatal lapse from virtue of which Margaret Cooper had been guilty. He was
too unfamiliar with the annals and practices of such criminals, to gather this fact from the
equivocal words, and half-spoken sentences, and sly looks of the confederates. Had he dreamed
this--had it, for a moment, entered into his conjecturings--that such had been the case, he
would probably have shot down the seducer without a word of warning. But that the crime was
other than prospective, he had not the smallest fancy; and this may have been another reason
why he took the chances of Stevens's return to Charlemont, and let him off at the moment.

"Even should he not return," such may have been his reflection--"I have prevented mischief
at least. He will be able to do no harm. Margaret Cooper shall be warned of her escape, and
become humbler at least, if not wiser in consequence. At all events, the eyes of Uncle Hinkley
will be opened, and poor Bill be restored to us again!"

"And now mount, you scamps," said Hinkley, pressing upon the two with presented pistols. "I'm
eager to send big-whiskered Ben home to his mother; and to see you, Brother Stevens, on your
way back to Charlemont. I can hardly keep hands off you till then; and it's only to do so,
that I hurry you. If you stay, looking black, mouthing together, I can't stand it. I will have
a crack at you. My peace-maker longs to brush up them whiskers. My bull-pup is eager to take
you, Brother Stevens, by the muzzle! Mount you, as quick as you can, before I do mischief."

Backing toward their horses, they yielded to the advancing muzzles, which the instinct of fear
made them loath to turn their backs upon.  Never were two hopeful projectors so suddenly abased--so
completely baffled. Hinkley, advancing with moderate pace, now thrust forward one, and now
the other pistol, accompanying the action with a specific sentence corresponding to each, in
manner and form as follows:--

"Back, parson--back, whiskers! Better turn, and look out for the roots, as you go forward.
There's no seeing your way along the road by looking down the throats of my puppies. If you
want to be sure that they'll follow till you're mounted, you have my word for it. No mistake,
I tell you. They're too eager on scent, to lose sight of you in a hurry, and they're ready
to give tongue at a moment's warning. Take care not to stumble, whiskers, or the pacificator
'll be into your brush."

"I'll pay you for this!" exclaimed Stevens, with a rage which was not less really felt than
judiciously expressed. "Wait till we meet!"

"Ay, ay! I'll wait; but be in a hurry. Turn now, your nags are at your backs. Turn and mount!"

In this way they reached the tree where their steeds were fastened. Thus, with the muzzle of
a pistol bearing close upon the body of each--the click of the cock they had heard--the finger
close to the trigger they saw--they were made to mount--in momentary apprehension that the
backwoodsman, whose determined character was sufficiently seen in his face, might yet change
his resolve, and with wanton hand, riddle their bodies with his bullets. It was only when they
were mounted, that they drew a breath of partial confidence.

"Now," said Hinkley, "my lads, let there be few last words between you. The sooner you're off
the better. As for you, Alfred Stevens, the sooner you're back in Charlemont the more daylight
we'll have to go upon. I'll be waiting you, I reckon, when you come."

"Ay, and you may wait," said Stsvens, as the speaker turned off and proceeded to the spot where
his own horse was fastened.

"You won't return, of course?" said his companion.

"No! I must now return with you, thanks to your interference. By Heavens, Ben, I knew, at your
coming, that you would do mischief; you have been a marplot ever; and after this, I am half-resolved
to forswear your society for ever."

"Nay, nay! do not say so, Warham. It was unfortunate, I grant you; but how the devil should
either of us guess that such a Turk as that was in the bush?"

"Enough for the present," said the other. 'It is not now whether I wish to ride with you or
not. There is no choice. There is no return to Charlemont."

"And that's the name of the place, is it?"

"Yes! yes! Much good may the knowledge of it do you."

"How fortunate that this silly fellow concluded to let you off on such a promise. What an ass!"

"Yes! but he may grow wiser! Put spurs to your jade, and let us see what her heels are good
for, for the next three hours. I do not yet feel secure. The simpleton may grow wiser and change
his mind."

"He can scarcely do us harm now, if he does."

"Indeed!" said Stevens--"you know nothing. There's such a thing as hue and cry, and its not
unfrequently practised in these regions, when the sheriff is not at hand and constables are
scarce. Every man is then a sheriff."

"Well--but there's no law-process against us!"

"You are a born simpleton, I think," said Stevens, with little scruple. He was too much mortified
to be very heedful of the feelings of his companion. "There needs no law in such a case, at
least for the CAPTURE of a supposed criminal; and, for that matter, they do not find it necessary
for his punishment either. Hark ye, Ben--there's a farmhouse?"

"Yes, I see it!"

"Don't you smell tar?--They're running it now!"

"I think I do smell something like it. What of it?"

"Do you see that bed hanging from yon window?"

"Yes! of course I see it!"

"It is a feather-bed!"

"Well--what of that? Why tell me this stuff? Of course I can guess as well as you that it's
a feather-bed, since I see a flock of geese in the yard with their necks all bare."

"Hark ye, then! There's something more than this, which you may yet see! Touch up your mare.
If this fellow brings the mob at Ellisland upon us, that tar will be run, and that feather-bed
gutted, for our benefit. What they took from the geese will be bestowed on us. Do you understand
me? Did you ever hear of a man whose coat was made of tar and feathers, and furnished at the
expense of the county?"

"Hush, for God's sake, Warham! you make my blood run cold with your hideous notions!"

"That fellow offered to frizzle your whiskers. These would anoint them with tar, in which your
bear's oil would be of little use."

"Ha! don't you hear a noise?" demanded the whiskered companion, looking behind him.

"I think I do," replied the other musingly.

"A great noise!" continued Don Whiskerandos.

"Yes, it seems to me that it is a great noise."

"Like people shouting?"

"Somewhat--yes, by my soul, that DOES sound something like a shout!"

"And there! Don't stop to look and listen, Warham," cried his companion; "it's no time for
meditation. They're coming! hark!--" and with a single glance behind him--with eyes dilating
with the novel apprehensions of receiving a garment, unsolicited, bestowed by the bounty of
the county--he drove his spurs into the flanks of his mare, and went ahead like an arrow. Stevens
smiled in spite of his vexation.

"D--n him!" he muttered as he rode forward, "it's some satisfaction, at least, to scare the
soul out of him!"

CHAPTER XXXII.

THE REVELATION.

Having seen his enemy fairly mounted, and under way, as he thought, for Charlemont, Ned Hinkley
returned to Ellisland for his own horse. Here he did not suffer himself to linger, though,
before he could succeed in taking his departure, he was subjected to a very keen and searching
examination by the village publican and politician. Having undergone this scrutiny with tolerable
patience, if not to the entire satisfaction of the examiner, he set forward at a free canter,
determined that his adversary should not be compelled to wait.

It was only while he rode that he began to fancy the possibility of the other having taken
a different course; but as, upon reflection, he saw no other plan which he might have adopted--for
lynching for suspected offences was not yet a popular practice in and about Charlemont--he
contented himself with the reflection that he had done all that could have been done; and if
Alfred Stevens failed to keep his appointment, he, at least, was one of the losers. He would
necessarily lose the chance of revenging an indignity, not to speak of the equally serious
loss of that enjoyment which a manly fight usually gave to Ned Hinkley himself, and which,
he accordingly assumed, must be an equal gratification to all other persons. When he arrived
at Charlemont, he did not make his arrival known, but, repairing directly to the lake among
the hills, he hitched his horse, and prepared, with what patience he could command, to await
the coming of the enemy.

The reader is already prepared to believe that the worthy rustic waited in vain. It was only
with the coming on of night that he began to consider himself outwitted. He scratched his head
impatiently, not without bringing away some shreds of the hair, jumped on his horse, and, without
making many allowances for the rough and hilly character of the road, went off at a driving
pace for the house of Uncle Hinkley. Here he drew up only to ask if Brother Stevens had returned.

"No!"

"Then, dang it! he never will return. He's a skunk, uncle--as great a skunk as ever was in
all Kentucky!"

"How! what!--what of Brother Stevens?" demanded the uncle, seconded by John Cross, who had
only some two hours arrived at the village, and now appeared at the door. But Ned Hinkley was
already off.

"He's a skunk!--that's all!"

His last words threw very little light over the mystery, and certainly gave very little satisfaction
to his hearers. The absence of Alfred Stevens, at a time when John Cross was expected, had
necessarily occasioned some surprise; but, of course, no apprehensions were entertained by
either the worthy parson or the bigoted host that he could be detained by any cause whatsoever
which he could not fully justify.

The next course of Ned Hinkley was for the cottage of Mr. Calvert. To the old man he gave a
copious detail of all his discoveries--not only the heads of what he heard from the conspirators
in the wood, but something of the terms of the dialogue. The gravity of Calvert increased as
the other proceeded. He saw more deeply into the signification of certain portions of this
dialogue than did the narrator; and when the latter, after having expressed his disappointment
at the non-appearance of Stevens on the field of combat, at least congratulated himself at
having driven him fairly from the ground, the other shook his head mournfully.

"I am afraid it's too late, my son."

"Too late, gran'pa! How? Is it ever too late to send such a rascal a-packing?"

"It may be for the safety of some, my son."

"What! Margaret you mean? You think the poor fool of a girl's too far gone in love of him, do you?"

"If that were all, Ned--"

"Why, what more, eh? You don't mean!--"

The apprehensions of the simple, unsuspecting fellow, for the first time began to be awakened
to the truth.

"I am afraid, my son, that this wretch has been in Charlemont too long. From certain words
that you have dropped, as coming from Stevens, in speaking to his comrade, I should regard
him as speaking the language of triumph for successes already gained."

"Oh, hardly! I didn't think so. If I had only guessed that he meant such a thing--though I
can't believe it--I'd ha' dropped him without a word. I'd have given him the pacificator as
well as the peace-breaker. Oh, no! I can't think it--I can't--I won't! Margaret Cooper is not
a girl to my liking, but, Lord help us! she's too beautiful and too smart to suffer such a
skunk, in so short a time, to get the whip-hand of her. No, gran'pa, I can't and won't believe it!"

"Yet, Ned, these words which you have repeated convey some such fear to my mind. It may be
that the villain was only boasting to his companion. There are scoundrels in this world who
conceive of no higher subject of boast than the successful deception and ruin of the artless
and confiding. I sincerely hope that this may be the case now--that it was the mere brag of
a profligate, to excite the admiration of his comrade. But when you speak of the beauty and
the smartness of this poor girl, as of securities for virtue, you make a great mistake. Beauty
is more apt to be a betrayer than a protector; and as for her talent, that is seldom a protection
unless it be associated with humility. Hers was not. She was most ignorant where she was most
assured. She knew just enough to congratulate herself that she was unlike her neighbors, and
this is the very temper of mind which is likely to cast down its possessor in shame. I trust
that she had a better guardian angel than either her beauty or her talents. I sincerely hope
that she is safe. At all events, let me caution you not to hint the possibility of its being
otherwise. We will take for granted that Stevens is a baffled villain."

"I only wish I had dropped him!"

"Better as it is."

"What! even if the poor girl is--"

"Ay, even then!"

"Why, gran'pa, can it be possible YOU say so?"

"Yes, my son; I say so here, in moments of comparative calmness, and in the absence of the
villain. Perhaps, were he present, I should say otherwise."

"And DO otherwise! You'd shoot him, gran'pa, as soon as I."

"Perhaps! I think it likely. But, put up your pistols, Ned. You have nobody now to shoot. Put
them up, and let us walk over to your uncle's at once. It is proper that he and John Cross
should know these particulars."

Ned agreed to go, but not to put up his pistols.

"For, you see, gran'pa, this rascal may return. His friend may have kept him in long talk.
We may meet him coming into the village."

"It is not likely; but come along. Give me that staff, my son, and your arm on the other side.
I feel that my eyes are no longer young."

"You could shoot still, gran'pa?"

"Not well."

"What, couldn't you hit a chap like Stevens between the eyes at ten paces? I'm sure I could
do it, blindfolded, by a sort of instinct."

And the youth, shutting his eyes, as if to try the experiment, drew forth one of his pistols
from his bosom, and began to direct its muzzle around the room.

"There was a black spider THERE, gran'pa! I'm sure, taking him for Stevens, I could cut his
web for him."

"You have cut that of Stevens himself, and his comb too, Ned."

"Yes, yes--but what a fool I was not to make it his gills!"

By this time the old man had got on his spencer, and, with staff in hand, declared himself
in readiness. Ned Hinkley lowered his pistol with reluctance. He was very anxious to try the
weapon and his own aim, on somebody or something. That black spider which lived so securely
in the domicil of Mr. Calvert would have stood no chance in any apartment of the widow Hinkley.
Even the "pacificator" would have been employed for its extermination, if, for no other reason,
because of the fancied resemblance which it had always worn to Brother Stevens--a resemblance
which occurred to him, perhaps, in consequence of the supposed similarity between the arts
of the libertine and those for the entrapping of his victims which distinguish the labors of
the spider.

The two were soon arrived at old Hinkley's, and the tale of Ned was told; but, such was the
bigotry of the hearers, without securing belief.

"So blessed a young man!" said the old lady.

"A brand from the burning!" exclaimed Brother Cross.

"It's all an invention of Satan!" cried old Hinkley, "to prevent the consummation of a goodly
work."

"We should not give our faith too readily to such devices of the enemy, Friend Calvert," said
John Cross, paternally.

"I never saw anything in him that wasn't perfectly saint-like," said Mrs. Hinkley." He made
the most heartfelt prayer, and the loveliest blessing before meat! I think I hear him now--'Lord,
make us thankful'--with his eyes shut up so sweetly, and with such a voice."

"There are always some people, Brother Cross, to hate the saints of the Lord and to slander
them! They lie in wait like thieves of the night, and roaring lions of the wilderness, seeking
what they may devour."

"Ah," exclaimed Brother Cross, "how little do such know that they devour themselves; for whoso
destroyeth his best friend is a devourer of himself."

"The blindness of Satan is upon them, and they do his work."

And thus--purr, purr, purr--they went on, to the end of the chapter. Poor Ned Hinkley found
the whole kennel was upon him. Not only did they deny everything that could by possibility
affect the fair fame of the absent brother, but, from defending him, they passed, with an easy
transition, to the denunciation of those who were supposed to be his defamers. In this the
worthy old man Calvert came in for his share.

"All this comes of your supporting that worthless boy of mine in defiance of my will," said
old Hinkley. "You hate Brother Stevens because that boy hated him, and because I love him."

"You are mistaken, Mr. Hinkley," said Calvert, mildly. "I hate nobody; at the same time I suffer
no mere prejudices to delude me against sight and reason."

"Ah!" said Brother Cross, gently, "it's that very reason, Brother Calvert, that ruins you worldlings.
You must not rely on human reason. Build on faith, and you build on the Rock of Ages."

"I propose to use reason only in worldly matters, Mr. Cross," said the other; "for which use,
only, I believe it was given us.  I employ it in reference to a case of ordinary evidence,
and I beg your regards now, while I draw your attention to the use I make of it in the present
instance. Will you hear me without interruption?"

"Surely, Brother Calvert, but call me not Mr. Cross. I am not a Mister. I am plain John Cross;
by virtue of my business, a brother, if it so please you to esteem me. Call me Brother Cross,
or Brother John Cross, or plain John Cross, either of these will be acceptable unto me."

"We are all brothers, or should be," said Calvert; "and it will not need that there should
be any misunderstanding between us on so small a matter."

"The matter is not small in the eye of the Lord," said the preacher. "Titles of vanity become
not us, and offend in his hearing."

The old teacher smiled, but proceeded.

"Now, Brother Cross, if you will hear me, I will proceed, according to my reason, to dwell
upon the proofs which are here presented to you, of the worthlessness of this man, Alfred Stevens;
and when you consider how much the feelings and the safety of the daughters of your flock depend
upon the character of those moral and religious teachers to whom the care of them is intrusted,
you will see, I think, the necessity of listening patiently, and determining without religious
prejudice, according to the truth and reason of the case."

"I am prepared to listen patiently, Brother Calvert," said John Cross, clasping his hands together,
setting his elbows down upon the table, shutting his eyes, and turning his face fervently up
to heaven. Old Hinkley imitated this posture quite as nearly as he was able; while Mrs. Hinkley,
sitting between the two, maintained a constant to-and-fro motion, first on one side, then on
the other, as they severally spoke to the occasion, with her head deferentially bowing, like
a pendulum, and with a motion almost as regular and methodical. The movements of her nephew,
Ned Hinkley, were also a somewhat pleasant study, after a fashion of his own. Sitting in a
corner, he amused himself by drawing forth his "puppies," and taking occasional aim at a candle
or flowerpot; and sometimes, with some irreverence, at the curved and rather extravagant proboscis
of his worthy uncle, which, cocked up in air, was indeed something of a tempting object of
sight to a person so satisfied of his skill in shooting as the young rustic. The parties being
thus arranged in a fit attitude for listening, Mr. Calvert began somewhat after the following
fashion:--

"Our first knowledge of Alfred Stevens was obtained through Brother John Cross."

"And what better introduction would you have?" demanded old Hinkley.

"None," said the other, "if Brother Cross knew anything about the party he introduced. But
it so happens, as we learn from Brother Cross himself, that the first acquaintance he had with
Stevens was made upon the road, where Stevens played a trick upon him by giving him brandy
to drink."

"No trick, Brother Calvert; the young man gave it me as a medicine, took it as a medicine himself,
and, when I bade him, threw away the accursed beverage."

"Ordinary men, governed by ordinary reason, Brother Cross, would say that Stevens knew very
well what he was giving you, and that it was a trick."

"But only think, Mr. Calvert," said Mrs. Hinkley, lifting her hands and eyes at the same moment,
"the blessed young man threw away the evil liquor the moment he was told to do so. What a sign
of meekness was that!"

"I will not dwell on this point," was the reply of Calvert. "He comes into our village and
declares his purpose to adopt the profession of the preacher, and proceeds to his studies under
the direction of Brother Cross."

"And didn't he study them?" demanded Mrs. Hinkley. "Wasn't he, late and early, at the blessed
volume? I heard him at all hours above stairs. Oh! how often was he on his bended knees in
behalf of our sinful race, ungrateful and misbelieving that we are!"

"I am afraid, madam," said Calvert, "that his studies were scarcely so profound as you think
them. Indeed. I am at a loss to conceive how you should blind your eyes to the fact that the
greater part of his time was spent among the young girls of the village."

"And where is it denied," exclaimed old Hinkley, "that the lambs of God should sport together?"

"Do not speak in that language, I pray you, Mr. Hinkley," said Calvert, with something of pious
horror in his look; "this young man was no lamb of God, but, I fear, as you will find, a wolf
in the fold. It is, I say, very well known that he was constantly wandering, even till a late
hour of the night, with one of the village maidens."

"Who was that one, Brother Calvert?" demanded John Cross.

"Margaret Cooper."

"Hem!" said the preacher.

"Well, he quarrels with my young friend, the worthy son of Brother Hinkley--"

"Do not speak of that ungrateful cub. Brother Stevens did not quarrel with him. He quarrelled
with Brother Stevens, and would have murdered him, but that I put in in time to save."

"Say not so, Mr. Hinkley. I have good reason to believe that Stevens went forth especially
to fight with William."

"I would not believe it, if a prophet were to tell me it."

"Nevertheless, I believe it. We found both of them placed at the usual fighting-distance."

"Ah! but where were Brother Stevens's pistols?"

"In his pocket, I suppose."

"He had none. He was at a distance from my ungrateful son, and flying that he should not be
murdered. The lamb under the hands of the butcher. And would you believe it, Brother Cross,
he had gone forth only to counsel the unworthy boy--only to bring him back into the fold--gone
forth at his own prayer, as Brother Stevens declared to Betsy, just before he went out."

"I am of opinion that he deceived her and yourself."

"Where were his pistols then?"

"He must have concealed them. He told Ned Hinkley, this very day, that he had pistols, but
that they were here."

"Run up, Betsy, to Brother Stevens's room and see."

The old lady disappeared. Calvert proceeded.

"I can only repeat my opinion, founded upon the known pacific and honorable character of William
Hinkley, and certain circumstances in the conduct of Stevens, that the two did go forth, under
a previous arrangement, to fight a duel. That they were prevented, and that Stevens had no
visible weapon, is unquestionably true. But I do not confine myself to these circumstances.
This young man writes a great many letters, it is supposed to his friends, but never puts them
in the post here, but every Saturday rides off, as we afterward learn, to the village of Ellisland,
where he deposites them and receive others. This is a curious circumstance, which alone should
justify suspicion.

"The ways of God are intricate, Brother Calvert," said John Cross, "and we are not to suspect
the truth which we can not understand."

"But these are the ways of man, Brother Cross."

"And the man of God is governed by the God which is in him. He obeys a law which, perhaps,
is ordered to be hidden from thy sight."

"This doctrine certainly confers very extraordinary privileges upon the man of God," said Calvert,
quietly, "and, perhaps, this is one reason why the profession is so prolific of professors
now-a-days; but the point does not need discussion. Enough has been shown to awaken suspicion
and doubt in the case of any ordinary person; and I now come to that portion of the affair
which is sustained by the testimony of Ned Hinkley, our young friend here, who, whatever his
faults may be, has been always regarded in Charlemont, as a lover and speaker of the truth."

"Ay, ay, so far as he knows what the truth is," said old Hinkley, scornfully.

"And I'm just as likely to know what the truth is as you, uncle!',' retorted the young man,
rising and coming forward from his corner.

"Come, come," he continued, "you're not going to ride rough shod over me as you did over Cousin
Bill. I don't care a snap of the finger, I can tell you, for all your puffed cheeks and big
bellied speeches. I don't, I tell you!" and suiting the action to the word, the sturdy fellow
snapped his fingers almost under the nose of his uncle, which was now erected heavenward, with
a more scornful pre-eminence than ever. The sudden entrance of Mrs. Hinkley, from her search
after Stevens's pistols, prevented any rough issue between these new parties, as it seemed
to tell in favor of Stevens. There were no pistols to be found. The old lady did not add, indeed,
that thers was nothing of any kind to be found belonging to the same worthy.

"There! That's enough!" said old Hinkley.

"Did you find anything of Stevens's, Mrs. Hinkley?" inquired Mr. Calvert.

"Nothing, whatever."

"Well, madam," said Calvert, "your search, if it proves anything, proves the story of Ned Hinkley
conclusively. This man has carried off all his chattels."

John Cross looked down from heaven, and stared inquiringly at Mrs. Hinkley.

"Is this true? Have you found nothing, Sister Betsy?"

"Nothing."

"And Brother Stevens has not come back?"

"No!"

"And reason for it, enough," said old Hinkley. "Didn't you hear that Ned Hinkley threatened
to shoot him if he came back?"

"Look you, uncle," said the person thus accused, "if you was anybody else, and a little younger,
I'd thrash you for that speech the same as if it was a lie! I would."

"Peace!" said Calvert, looking sternly at the youth. Having obtained temporary silence, he
was permitted at length to struggle through his narrative, and to place, in their proper lights,
all the particulars which Ned Hinkley had obtained at Ellisland. When this was done the discussion
was renewed, and raged, with no little violence, for a full hour. At length it ceased through
the sheer exhaustion of the parties. Calvert was the first to withdraw from it, as he soon
discovered that such was the bigotry of old Hinkley and his wife, and even of John Cross himself,
that nothing short of divine revelation could persuade them of the guilt of one who had once
made a religious profession.

Brother Cross, though struck with some of the details which Calvert had given, was afterward
prepared to regard them as rather trivial than otherwise, and poor Ned was doomed to perceive
that the conviction was general in this holy family, that he had, by his violence, and the
terror which his pistols had inspired, driven away, in desperation, the most meek and saintly
of all possible young apostles. The youth was nearly furious ere the evening and the discussion
were over. It was very evident to Calvert that nothing was needed, should Stevens come back,
but a bold front and a lying tongue, to maintain his position in the estimation of the flock,
until such time as the truth WOULD make itself known--a thing which, eventually, always happens.
That night Ned Hinkley dreamed of nothing but of shooting Stevens and his comrade and of thrashing
his uncle. What did Margaret Cooper dream of?

CHAPTER XXXIII.

STORM AND CONVULSION.

What did Margaret Cooper dream of? Disappointment, misery, death. There was a stern presentiment
in her waking thoughts, sufficiently keen and agonizing to inspire such dreadful apprehensions
in her dreams. The temperament which is sanguine, and which, in a lively mood, inspires hope,
is, at the same time, the source of those dark images of thought and feeling, which appal it
with the most terrifying forms of fear; and when Saturday and Saturday night came and passed,
and Alfred Stevens did not appear, a lurking dread that would not be chidden or kept down,
continued to rise within her soul, which, without assuming any real form or decisive speech,
was yet suggestive of complete overthrow and ruin.

Her dreams were of this complexion. She felt herself abandoned. Nor merely abandoned. She was
a victim. In her desolation she had even lost her pride. She could no longer meet the sneer
with scorn. She could no longer carry a lofty brow among the little circle, who, once having
envied, were now about to despise her. To the impatient spirit, once so strong--so insolent
in its strength--what a pang--what a humiliation was here! In her dreams she saw the young
maidens of the village stand aloof, as she had once stood aloof from them:--she heard the senseless
titter of their laugh; and she had no courage to resent the impertinence. Her courage was buried
in her shame. No heart is so cowardly as that which is conscious of guilt. Picture after picture
of this sort did her fancy present to her that night; and when she awoke the next morning,
the sadness of her soul had taken the color of a deep and brooding misanthropy. Such had been
the effect of her dreams. Her resolution came only from despair; and resolution from such a
source, we well know, is usually only powerful against itself.

It is one proof of a religious instinct, and of a universal belief in a controlling and benevolent
Deity, that all men however abased, scornful of divine and human law, invariably, in their
moments of desperation, call upon God. Their first appeal is, involuntarily, to him. The outlaw,
as the fatal bullet pierces his breast--the infidel, sinking and struggling in the water--the
cold stony heart of the murderer, the miser, the assassin of reputation as of life--all cry
out upon God in the unexpected paroxysms of death. Let us hope that the instinct waich prompts
this involuntary appeal for mercy, somewhat helps to secure its blessings. It is thus also
with one who, in the hey-day of the youthful heart, has lived without thought or prayer--a
tumultuous life of uproar and riot--a long carnival of the passions--the warm blood suppressing
the cool thought, and making the reckless heart impatient of consideration. Let the sudden
emergency arise, with such a heart--let the blood become stagnant with disease--and the involuntary
appeal is to that God, of whom before there was no thought. We turn to him as to a father who
is equally strong to help and glad to preserve us.

Margaret Cooper, in the ordinary phrase, had lived without God. Her God was in her own heart,
beheld by the lurid fires of an intense, unmethodized ambition. Her own strength--or rather
the persuasion of her own strength--had been so great, that hitherto she had seen no necessity
for appealing to any other source of power. She might now well begin to distrust that strength.
She did so. Her desperation was not of that sort utterly to shut out hope; and, while there
is hope, there is yet a moral assurance that the worst is not yet--perhaps not to be. But she
was humbled--not enough, perhaps--but enough to feel the necessity of calling in her allies.
She dropped by her bedside, in prayer, when she arose that morning. We do not say that she
prayed for forgiveness, without reference to her future earthly desires. Few of us know how
to simplify our demands upon the Deity to this one. We pray that he may assist us in this or
that grand speculation: the planter for a great crop; the banker for investments that give
him fifty per cent.; the lawyer for more copious fees; the parson for an increase of salary.
How few pray for mercy--forgiveness for the past--strength to sustain the struggling conscience
in the future! Poor Margaret was no wiser, no better, than the rest of us. She prayed--silly
woman!--that Alfred Stevens might keep his engagament!

He did not! That day she was to be married! She had some reference to this in making her toilet
that morning. The garments which she put on were all of white. A white rose gleamed palely
from amid the raven hair upon her brow. Beautiful was she, exceedingly. How beautiful! but
alas! the garb she wore--the pale, sweet flower on her forehead--they were mockeries--the emblems
of that purity of soul, that innocence of heart, which were gone--gone for ever! She shuddered
as she beheld the flower, and meditated this thought. Silently she took the flower from her
forehead, and, as if it were precious as that lost jewel of which it reminded her, she carefully
placed it away in her toilet-case.

Yet her beauty was heightened rather than diminished. Margaret Cooper was beautiful after no
ordinary mould. Tall in stature, with a frame rounded by the most natural proportions into
symmetry, and so formed for grace; with a power of muscle more than common among women, which,
by inducing activity, made her movements as easy as they were graceful; with an eye bright
like the morning-star, and with a depth of expression darkly clear, like that of the same golden
orb at night; with a face exquisitely oval; a mouth of great sweetness; cheeks on which the
slightest dash of hue from the red, red rose in June, might be seen to come and go under the
slightest promptings of the active heart within; a brow of great height and corresponding expansion;
with a bust that impressed you with a sense of the maternal strength which might be harbored
there, even as the swollen bud gives promises of the full-bosomed luxuriance of the flower
when it opens: add to these a lofty carriage, a look where the quickened spirit seems ever
ready for utterance; a something of eager solemnity in her speech; and a play of expression
on her lips which, if the brow were less lofty and the eye less keenly bright, might be a smile--and
you have some idea of that noble and lovely temple on which fires of lava had been raised by
an unholy hand; in which a secret worship is carried on which dreads the light, shrinks from
exposure, and trembles to be seen by the very Deity whose favor it yet seeks in prayer and
apprehension.

These beauties of person as we have essayed, though most feebly, to describe them, were enhanced
rather than lessened by that air of anxiety by which they were now overcast. Her step was no
longer free. It was marked by an unwonted timidity. Her glance was no longer confident; and
when she looked round upon the faces of the young village-maidens, it was seen that her lip
trembled and moved, but no longer with scorn. If the truth were told, she now envied the meanest
of those maidens that security which her lack of beauty had guarantied. She, the scorner of
all around her, now envied the innocence of the very meanest of her companions.

Such was the natural effect of her unhappy experience upon her heart. What would she not have
given to be like one of them? She dared not take her place, in the church, among them. It was
a dread that kept her back. Strange, wondrous power of innocence! The guilty girl felt that
she might be repulsed; that her frailty might make itself known--MUST make itself known; and
she would be driven with shame from that communion with the pure to which she had no longer
any claim! She sunk into one of the humblest seats in the church, drawing her reluctant mother
into the lowly place beside her.

John Cross did not that day address himself to her case: but sin has a family similitude among
all its members. There is an unmistakeable likeness, which runs through the connection. If
the preacher speaks fervently to one sin, he is very apt to goad, in some degree, all the rest:
and though Brother Cross had not the most distant idea of singling out Margaret Cooper for
his censure, yet there was a whispering devil at her elbow that kept up a continual commentary
upon what he said, filling her ears with a direct application of every syllable to her own
peculiar instance.

"See you not," said the demon, "that every eye is turned upon you? He sees into your soul;
he knows your secret. He declares it, as you hear, aloud, with a voice of thunder, to all the
congregation. Do you not perceive that you sit alone; that everybody shrinks from your side;
that your miserable old mother alone sits with you; that the eyes of some watch you with pity,
but more with indignation? Look at the young damsels--late your companions--they are your companions
no longer! They triumph in your shame. Their titter is only suppressed because of the place
in which they are. They ask: 'Is this the maiden who was so wise, so strong--who scorned us--scorned
US, indeed!--and was not able to baffle the serpent in his very first approaches?' Ha! ha!
How they laugh! Well, indeed, they may. It is very laughable, Margaret--not less laughable
and amusing than strange!--that YOU should have fallen!--so easily, so blindly--and not even
to suspect what every one else was sure of! O Margaret! Margaret! can it be true? Who will
believe in your wit now, your genius, your beauty? Smutched and smutted! Poor, weak, degraded!
If there is pity for you, Margaret, it is full of mockery too; it is a pity that is full of
bitterness. You should now cast yourself down, and cover yourself with ashes, and cry, 'Wo
is me!' and call upon the rocks and the hills to cover you!"

Such was the voice in her soul, which to HER senses seemed like that of some jibing demon at
her elbow. Margaret tried to pray--to expel him by prayer; but the object of his mockery had
not been attained. She could not surrender herself entirely to the chastener. She was scourged,
but not humbled; and the language of the demon provoked defiance, not humility. Her proud spirit
rose once more against the pressure put upon it. Her bright, dazzling eye flashed in scorn
upon the damsels whom she now fancied to be actually tittering--scarcely able to suppress their
laughter--at her obvious disgrace. On John Cross she fixed her fearless eye, like that of some
fallen angel, still braving the chastener, whom he can not contend with. A strange strength--for
even sin has its strength for a season--came to her relief in that moment of fiendish mockery.
The strength of an evil spirit was accorded her. Her heart once more swelled with pride. Her
soul once more insisted on its ascendency. She felt, though she did not say:--

"Even as I am, overthrown, robbed of my treasure, I feel that I am superior to these. I feel
that I have strength against the future. If they are pure and innocent, it is not because of
their greater strength, but their greater obscurity. If I am overthrown by the tempter, it
was because I was the more worthy object of overthrow. In their littleness they live: if I
am doomed to the shaft, at least it will be as the eagle is doomed; it will be while soaring
aloft--while aiming for the sun--while grasping at the very bolt by which I am destroyed!"

Such was the consolation offered by the twin-demons of pride and vanity. The latter finds its
aliment in the heart which it too completely occupies, even from those circumstances which,
in other eyes, make its disgrace and weakness. The sermon which had touched her sin had not
subdued it. Perhaps no sermon, no appeal, however powerful and touching, could at that moment
have had power over her. The paroxysm of her first consciousness of ruin had not yet passed
off. The condition of mind was not yet reached in which an appeal could be felt.

As in the case of physical disease, so with that of the mind and heart, there is a period when
it is neither useful nor prudent to administer the medicines which are yet most necessary to
safety. The judicious physician will wait for the moment when the frame is prepared--when the
pulse is somewhat subdued--before he tries the most powerful remedy. The excitement of the
wrong which she had suffered was still great in her bosom. It was necessary that she should
have repose. That excitement was maintained by the expectation that Stevens would yet make
his appearance. Her eye, at intervals, wandered over the assembly in search of him. The demon
at her elbow understood her quest.

"He will not come," it said; "you look in vain. The girls follow your eyes; they behold your
disappointment; they laugh at your credulity. If he leads any to the altar, think you it will
be one whom he could command at pleasure without any such conditions--one who, in her wild
passions and disordered vanity, could so readily yield to his desires, without demanding any
corresponding sacrifices? Margaret, they laugh now at those weaknesses of a mind which they
once feared if not honored. They wonder, now, that they could have been so deceived. If they
do not laugh aloud, Margaret, it is because they would spare your shame. Indeed, indeed, they
pity you!"

The head of the desperate, but still haughty woman, was now more proudly uplifted, and her
eyes shot forth yet fiercer fires of indignation. What a conflict was going on in her bosom.
Her cheeks glowed with the strife--her breast heaved; with difficulty she maintained her seat
inflexibly, and continued, without other signs of discomposure, until the service was concluded.
Her step was more stately than ever as she walked from church; and while her mother lingered
behind to talk with Brother Cross, and to exchange the sweetest speeches with the widow Thackeray
and others, she went on alone--seeing none, heeding none--dreading to meet any face lest it
should wear a smile and look the language in which the demon at her side still dealt. HE still
clung to her, with the tenacity of a fiendish purpose. He mocked her with her shame, goading
her, with dart upon dart, of every sort of mockery. Truly did he mutter in her ears:--

"Stevens has abandoned you. Never was child, before yourself, so silly as to believe such a
promise as he made you. Do you doubt?--do you still hope? It is madness? Why came he not yesterday--last
night--to-day? He is gone. He has abandoned you. You are not only alone--you are lost! lost
for ever!"

The tidings of this unsolicited attendant were confirmed the next day, by the unsuspecting
John Cross. He came to visit Mrs. Cooper and her daughter among the first of his parishioners.
He had gathered from the villagers already that Stevens had certainly favored Miss Cooper beyond
all the rest of the village damsels. Indeed, it was now generally bruited that he was engaged
to her in marriage. Though the worthy preacher had very stoutly resisted the suggestions of
Mr. Calvert, and the story of Ned Hinkley, he was yet a little annoyed by them; and he fancied
that, if Stevens were, indeed, engaged to Margaret, she, or perhaps the old lady, might relieve
his anxiety by accounting for the absence of his protege. The notion of Brother John was, that,
having resolved to marry the maiden, he had naturally gone home to apprize his parents and
to make the necessary preparations.

But this conjecture brought with it a new anxiety. It, now, for the first time, seemed something
strange that Stevens had never declared to himself, or to anybody else who his parents were--what
they were--where they were--what business they pursued; or anything about them. Of his friends,
they knew as little. The simple old man had never thought of these things, until the propriety
of such inquiries was forced upon him by the conviction that they would now be made in vain.
The inability to answer them, when it was necessary that an answer should be found, was a commentary
upon his imprudence which startled the good old man not a little. But, in the confident hope
that a solution of the difficulty could be afforded by the sweetheart or the mother, he proceeded
to her cottage. Of course, Calvert, in his communication to him, had forborne those darker
conjectures which he could not help but entertain; and his simple auditor, unconscious himself
of any thought of evil, had never himself formed any such suspicions.

Margaret Cooper was in her chamber when Brother Cross arrived. She had lost that elasticity
of temper which would have carried her out at that period among the hills in long rambles,
led by those wild, wooing companions, which gambol along the paths of poetic contemplation.
The old man opened his stores of scandal to Mrs. Cooper with little or no hesitation. He told
her all that Calvert had said, all that Ned Hinkley had fancied himself to have heard, and
all the village tattle touching the engagement supposed to exist between Stevens and her daughter.

"Of course, Sister Cooper," said he, "I believe nothing of this sort against the youth. I should
be sorry to think it of one whom I plucked as a brand from the burning. I hold Brother Stevens
to be a wise young man and a pious; and truly I fear, as indeed I learn, that there is in the
mind of Ned Hinkley a bitter dislike to the youth, because of some quarrel which Brother Stevens
is said to have had with William Hinkley. This dislike hath made him conceive evil things of
Brother Stevens and to misunderstand and to pervert some conversation which he hath overheard
which Stevens hath had with his companion. Truly, indeed, I think that Alfred Stevens is a
worthy youth of whom we shall hear a good account."

"And I think so too, Brother Cross. Brother Stevens will be yet a burning and a shining light
in the church. There is a malice against him; and I think I know the cause, Brother Cross."

"Ah! this will be a light unto our footsteps, Sister Cooper."

"Thou knowest, Brother Cross," resumed the old lady in a subdued tone but with a loftier elevation
of eyebrows and head--"thou knowest the great beauty of my daughter Margaret?"

"The maiden is comely, sister, comely among the maidens; but beauty is grass. It is a flower
which blooms at morning and is cut down in the evening. It withereth on the stalk where it
bloomed, until men turn from it with sickening and with sorrow, remembering what it hath been.
Be not boastful of thy daughter's beauty, Sister Cooper, it is the beauty of goodness alone
which dieth not."

"But said I not, Brother Cross, of her wisdom, and her wit, as well as her beauty?" replied
the old lady with some little pique. "I was forgetful of much, if I spoke only of the beauty
of person which Margaret Cooper surely possesseth, and which the eyes of blindness itself might
see."

"Dross, dross all, Sister Cooper. The wit of man is a flash which blindeth and maketh dark;
and the wisdom of man is a vain thing. The one crackleth like thorns beneath the pot--the other
stifleth the heart and keepeth down the soul from her true flight. I count the wit and wisdom
of thy daughter even as I count her beauty. She hath all, I think--as they are known to and
regarded by men. But all is nothing. Beauty hath a day's life like the butterfly; wit shineth
like the sudden flash of the lightning, leaving only the cloud behind it; and oh! for the vain
wisdom of man which makes him vain and unsteady--likely to falter--liable to fall--rash in
his judgment--erring in his aims--blind to his duty--wilful in his weakness--insolent to his
fellow--presumptuous in the sight of God. Talk not to me of worldly wisdom. It is the foe to
prayer and meekness. The very fruit of the tree which brought sin and death into the world.
Thy daughter is fair to behold--very fair among the maidens of our flock--none fairer, none
so fair: God hath otherwise blessed her with a bright mind and a quick intelligence; but I
think not that she is wise to salvation. No, no! she hath not yearned to the holy places of
the tabernacle, unless it be that Brother Stevens hath been more blessed in his ministry than I!"

"And he hath!" exclaimed the mother. "I tell you, Brother John, the heart of Margaret Cooper
is no longer what it was. It is softened. The toils of Brother Stevens have not been in vain.
Blessed young man, no wonder they hate and defame him. He hath had a power over Margaret Cooper
such as man never had before; and it is for this reason that Bill Hinkley and Ned conspired
against him, first to take his life, and then to speak evil of his deeds. They beheld the beauty
of my daughter, and they looked on her with famishing eyes. She sent them a-packing, I tell
you. But this youth, Brother Stevens, found favor in her heart. They beheld the two as they
went forth together. Ah! Brother John, it is the sweetest sight to behold two young, loving
people walk forth in amity--born, as it would seem, for each other; both so tall, and young,
and handsome; walking together with such smiles, as if there was no sorrow in the world; as
if there was nothing but flowers and sweetness on the path; as if they could see nothing but
one another; and as if there were no enemies looking on. It did my heart good to see them,
Brother Cross; they always looked so happy with one another."

"And you think, Sister Cooper, that Brother Stevens hath agreed to take Margaret to wife?"

"She hath not told me this yet, but in truth, I think it hath very nigh come to that."

"Where is she?"

"In her chamber."

"Call her hither, Sister Cooper; let us ask of her the truth."

Margaret Cooper was summoned, and descended with slow steps and an unwilling spirit to meet
their visiter.

"Daughter," said the good old man, taking her hand, and leading her to a seat, "thou art, even
as thy mother sayest, one of exceeding beauty. Few damsels have ever met mine eyes with a beauty
like to thine. No wonder the young men look on thee with eyes of love; but let not the love
of youth betray thee. The love of God is the only love that is precious to the heart of wisdom."

Thus saying, the old man gazed on her with as much admiration as was consistent with the natural
coldness of his temperament, his years, and his profession. His address, so different from
usual, had a soothing effect upon her. A sigh escaped her, but she said nothing. He then proceeded
to renew the history which had been given to him and which he had already detailed to her mother.
She heard him with patience, in spite of all his interpolations from Scripture, his ejaculations,
his running commentary upon the narrative, and the numerous suggestive topics which took him
from episode to episode, until the story seemed interminably mixed up in the digression.

But when he came to that portion which related to the adventure of Ned Hinkley, to his espionage,
the conference of Stevens with his companion--then she started--then her breathing became suspended,
then quickened--then again suspended--and then, so rapid in its rush, that her emotion became
almost too much for her powers of suppression.

But she did suppress it, with a power, a resolution, not often paralleled among men--still
more seldom among women. After the first spasmodic acknowledgment given by her surprise, she
listened with comparative calmness. She, alone, had the key to that conversation. She, alone,
knew its terrible signification. She knew that Ned Hinkley was honest--was to be believed--that
he was too simple, and too sincere, for any such invention; and, sitting with hands clasped
upon that chair--the only attitude which expressed the intense emotion which she felt--she
gazed with unembarrassed eye upon the face of the speaker, while every word which he spoke
went like some keen, death-giving instrument into her heart.

The whole dreadful history of the villany of Stevens, her irreparable ruin--was now clearly
intelligible. The mocking devil at her elbow had spoken nothing but the truth. She was indeed
the poor victim of a crafty villain. In the day of her strength and glory she had fallen--fallen,
fallen, fallen!

"Why am I called to hear this?" she demanded with singular composure.

The old man and the mother explained in the same breath--that she might reveal the degree of
intercourse which had taken place between them, and, if possible, account for the absence of
her lover. That, in short, she might refute the malice of enemies and establish the falsehood
of their suggestions.

"You wish to know if I believe this story of Ned Hinkley?"

"Even so, my daughter."

"Then, I do!"

"Ha! what is it you say, Margaret?"

"The truth."

