"Yes; they said in Cairo that the engagement would be announced as soon as they got back to
England. And really my dear, everyone agreed that without grudging you her money, one can't
help being glad that that dear woman should be rich again!"

It was about as sharp a two-edged thrust as could have been delivered, and Molly's distrait
air and undue magnificence melted under it. 

But the old gentleman only smiled slyly and completely did not want any further information geben.-To
Next Sunday I was of the Paulsen's spouses invited to the evening to give them celebrate their
wedding day to help.

While they were having tea, Molly, leaning back, said quietly:

"I see from what you said before we went over the house that you have not heard that Sir Edmund
Grosse is ruined?"

Mrs. Delaport Green gave a little shriek of excitement.

"He trusted all his affairs to a scoundrel, and this is the result." Molly's tone was still
negative.

"Well, that does seem a shame!"

"I don't know; if a man will neglect his affairs he must take the consequence."

"Oh! but I do think it is hard; he used his money so well."

"Did he?" Molly raised her eyebrows.

"Well, he was a perfect host, and was so awfully good-natured, don't you know?"

In the real interest in the news, Adela had, for the moment, forgotten that Molly might be
especially interested in anything concerning Edmund Grosse. She was reminded by the low, thundery
voice in which Molly began to speak quite suddenly, as if her patience had been tried too far.

"You are just like all the others! It's enough to make one a radical to listen to it. After
all, what good has Sir Edmund Grosse done with his money? He gave dinners that ruined people's
livers--I suppose that was good for the doctors! He gave diamonds to actresses, and I suppose
that was for the good of art. He has never done a stroke of work; he has wallowed in luxury,
and now his friends almost cry out against Providence because he will have to earn his bread.
Probably several hundreds a year will be left, and many men would be thankful for that. Then
other people say it is such a pity that now he cannot marry Lady Rose Bright. They have the
effrontery to say that to me, as if £800 a year were not enough for them to marry on if they
cared for each other!"

All this tirade seemed to Adela the very natural outpouring of jealousy, and, as she fully
intended to be an intimate friend of Molly's she sympathised and agreed, and agreed and sympathised
till she fairly, roused Molly's sense of the ludicrous.

"I don't mean," Molly said, half angry and half amused, "that I shall spend my money so very
much better;--I quite mean to have my fling. Only I do so hate all this cant."

At last Adela departed, crying out that she had promised to be in Hoxton an hour ago, and Molly
was left alone. It was too late to go to the shops, she reflected, and she sank back into a
deep chair with a frown on her white forehead.

What did it matter to her if they were engaged or not? It made no sort of difference. She was
not going to allow her peace of mind to be upset on their account; she had done with that sentimental
nonsense long ago. Her illness had made a great space between her present self and the Molly
who had been so foolishly upset by the discovery of Edmund Grosse's treachery. Curiously enough
Molly had never doubted of that treachery, although it was one of the horrors that had come
out of the doubtful, and probably mythical, tin box.

By the way, there was a little pile of tin boxes in a small unfurnished room upstairs, next
to Molly's bedroom, of which she kept the key. She had had no time to look at them yet. Some
of them came from Florence, and two or three from her own flat. They were of all shapes and
sizes, and piled one on another. But from the moment when Molly turned that very ordinary key
in the lock of the unfurnished dressing-room she never let her thoughts dwell for long on the
possible delusions of delirium. Her mind had entered into another phase in which it was of
supreme importance to think only of the details of each day as they came before her.

CHAPTER XXV

MOLLY AT COURT

If any of us, going to dress quietly in an ordinary bedroom, were told: "It is the last time
you will have just that amount of comfort, that degree of luxury, to which you have been accustomed;
it is the last time you will have your evening clothes put out for you; the last time your
things will be brushed; the last time hot water will be brought to your room; the last time
that your dressing-gown will have come out of the cupboard without your taking it out"--we
might have an odd mixture of sensations. We might be very sad--ridiculously sad--and yet have
a sense of being braced, a whiff of open air in the mental atmosphere.

Edmund Grosse did not expect in future to draw his own hot water, or put out his own dressing-gown,
but he did know that he had come to the last night of having a valet of his own, the last night
in which the perfect Dawkins, who had been with him ten years, would do him perfect bodily
service. Everything to-night was done in the most punctilious manner, and it seemed appropriate
that this last night should be a full-dress affair.

Sir Edmund was going to Court (the first Court held in May), and his deputy lieutenant's uniform
was laid on the bed. Edmund might not have taken the trouble to go, but a kindly message from
a very high place as to his troubles had made him feel it a more gracious response to do so.
The valet was a trifle distant, if any shade of manner could have been detected in his deferential
attitude towards his master. Dawkins was not pleased with Sir Edmund; he felt that his ten
years of service had been based on a delusion; he had not intended to be valet to a ruined
man. Happily he had been careful. He had not trusted blindly to Providence, and, with a rich
result from enormous wages and perquisites, and an excellent character, he could face the world
with his head high, whereas Sir Edmund--well, Sir Edmund's position was very different. Sir
Edmund had let himself be deceived outrageously, and what was the result?

Edmund was as particular as usual about every detail of his appearance. It would have been
an education to a young valet to have seen the ruined man dressed that evening.

Next day Dawkins was to leave, and the day after that the flat was to be the scene of a small
sale. The chief valuables, a few good pictures, and some very rare china, had already gone
to Christie's. The delicate pâte of his beloved vases had seemed to respond to the lingering
farewell touch of the connoisseur's fingers. Edmund was trying to secure for some of them homes
where he might sometimes visit them, and one or two of his lady friends were persuading their
husbands that these things ought to be bought for love of poor Edmund Grosse. Edmund was quite
ready to press a little on friendship of this sort, being fully conscious of its quality and
its duration. For the next few weeks he would be welcomed with enthusiasm--and next year?

But all the same there was that subconscious sense of bracing air--something like the sense
of climax in reaching a Northern station on a very hot day. We may be very hot, perhaps, at
Carlisle or Edinburgh, but it is not the climate of Surrey.

Edmund mounted the stairs at Buckingham Palace with a certain unconscious dignity which melted
into genial amusement at the sight of a pretty woman near him evidently whispering advice to
a fair débutante. The girl was not eighteen, and her whole figure expressed acute discomfort.

"Keep your veil out of the way," her mother warned her.

"I've had two dreadful pulls already; I'm sure my feathers are quite crooked. Oh! mother, there's
Sir Edmund Grosse; he will tell me whether they are crooked. You never know."

"I could see if you would let me get in front of you," murmured her mother.

"But you can't possibly in this crowd. Oh! how d'ye do, Sir Edmund; have I kept my veil straight?"

"Charming," said Edmund, with a low bow. The child really looked very pretty, though rather
like a little dairymaid dressed up for fun, and her long gloves slipped far enough from the
shoulders to show some splendidly red arms.

"Charming," he said again in a half-teasing voice. "Only I don't approve of such late hours
for children."

It amused him that this was one of the presentations that would be most noted in the papers,
and this funny, jolly little girl would probably gain a good deal of knowledge and lose a great
deal more of charm in the next three months.

Walking by the mother and daughter, he had come close to the open doors of a long gallery,
and stood for a moment to take in the picture. It was not new to him, but perhaps he felt inclined
to the attitude of an onlooker to-night, and there was something in this attitude slightly
aloof and independent. Brilliant was the one word for the scene; a little hard, perhaps, in
colouring, and the women in their plumes and veils were too uniform to be artistic. There was
too much gold, too much red silk, too many women in the long rows waiting with more or less
impatience or nervousness to get through with it. The scene had an almost crude simplicity
of insistence on fine feathers and gilding the obvious pride of life. Yet he saw the little
fair country girl near him look awe-struck, and he understood it. For a fresh imagination,
or for one that has, for some reason, a fresh sensitiveness of perception, the great gallery,
the wealth of fair women, the scattered men in uniform, the solemn waiting for entrance into
the royal presence, were enough. And there really is a certain force in the too gaudy setting.
It blares like a trumpet. It crushes the quiet and the repose of life. It shines in the eye
defiantly and suddenly, and at last it captures the mind and makes the breath come quickly,
for, like no other and more perfect setting to life, it makes us think of death. It is too
bald an assertion of the world and all its works and all its pomps, not to challenge a rebuke
from the grisly tyrant.

Edmund had not analysed these impressions, but he was still under their power when he turned
to let others pass, for the crowd was thickening. And as he did so, a little space was opened
by three or four ladies turning round to secure places for some friends on the long seats against
the walls.

Across this space he saw a woman, whom, for a moment only, he did not recognise. It was a tall
figure in white satin with a train of cloth of silver thrown over her arm. There was nothing
of the nervous débutante in the attitude, nor was there the half-truculent self-assertion of
the modern girl. When people talked afterwards of her gown and her jewels, Edmund only remembered
the splendour of her pearls, and when he mentioned them, a woman added that the train had been
lined with lace of untold value. What he felt at the time was the enormous triumph of the eyes.
Grey eyes, full of light, full of pride. He did not ask himself what was the excuse for this
"haughty bearing," and the old phrase, which has now sunk from court manners into penny novelettes,
was the only phrase that seemed quite a true one.

Why did she stand so completely alone? It made no difference to this sense of loneliness that
she received warm greetings in the crowd, or that Lady Dawning was fidgeting and maternal.
Evidently (and he was amused at the combination) she was going to present her cousin, John
Dexter's daughter. Did she remember now how she had advised Mrs. Carteret to hide Molly from
the public eye?

But Molly's figure was always to remain in his mind thus triumphant without absurdity, and
thus alone in a crowd. The blackness of her hair had a strange force from the white transparent
veil flowing over it, and a flush of deep colour was in the dark skin. Edmund had several moments
in which to look at her and to realise that Molly was walking in a dream of greatness. The
little country girl he had seen just now had been brought up to hear kindly jokes about Courts
and their ways; not so Molly. To her it was all intensely serious and intensely exciting. Could
he have known the chief cause of the intense emotion that filled Molly's slight figure with
a feverish vitality would he have believed that she was happy? And yet she was, for no pirate
king running his brig under the very nose of a man-of-war ever had more of the quintessence
of the sense of adventure than Molly had, as Lady Dawning led her, the heiress of the year,
into the long gallery.

For one moment she saw Edmund Grosse, and she looked him full in the face very gravely. She
did not pretend not to know him; she let him see the entirely genuine contempt she felt for
him, and she meant him to understand that she would never know him again.

CHAPTER XXVI

EDMUND IS NO LONGER BORED

As the season went on Edmund Grosse did not understand himself. Everything had gone against
him, his fortune had melted, his easy-going luxurious life was at an end. He had no delusions;
he knew perfectly well the value of money in his world. His position in that world was gone
in fact, if not quite in seeming. The sort of conversation that went on about him in his own
circles had the sympathy, but would soon have also the finality, of a funeral oration. There
would soon be a tone of reminiscence in those who spoke of him. It would be as if they said
gently: "Oh, yes! dear old Grosse, we knew him well at one time, don't you know; it's a sad
story." He could have told you not only the words, but even the inflection of the voices of
his friends in discussing his affairs. He did not mean that there were no kindly faithful hearts
among them. Several might emerge as kind, as friendly as ever. But the monster of human society
would behave as it always does in self-defence. It would shake itself, dislodge Edmund from
its back, and then say quite kindly that it was a sad pity that he had fallen off. Every organism
must reject what it can no longer assimilate, and a rich society by the law of its being rejects
a poor man.

And yet the idea that poor Grosse must be half crushed, horribly cut up and done for, was not
in the least true. This was what he did not understand himself. It is well known that some
people bear great trials almost lightly who take small ones very heavily. Grosse certainly
rose to the occasion. But that a great trial had aroused great courage was not the whole explanation
by any means. Curiously enough ill-fortune with drastic severity had done for him what he had
impotently wished to do for himself. It had made impossible the life which, in his heart, he
had despised; it absolutely forced him to use powers of which he was perfectly conscious, and
which had been rusting simply for want of employment. It is doubtful whether he could have
roused himself for any other motive whatever. Certainly love of Rose had been unable to do
it. The will might seem to will what he wished to do, but the effort to will strongly enough
was absent. Now all the soft, padded things between him and the depths of life had been struck
away at one rude blow; he must swim or sink. And so he began to swim, and the exercise restored
his circulation and braced his whole being.

It was not, perhaps, heroic exertion that he was roused into making. But it wanted courage
in a man of Edmund's age to begin to work for six hours or more a day at journalism. He also
produced two articles on foreign politics for the reviews, which made a considerable impression.
It was important now that Edmund had read and watched, and, even more important, listened very
attentively to what busier men than himself had to say during twenty years of life spent in
the world. Years afterwards, when Grosse had in the second half of his life done as much work
as many men would think a good record for their whole lives, people were surprised to read
his age in the obituary notices. They had rightly dated the beginning of his career from his
first appearance as an authority on foreign politics, but they had not realised that Grosse
had begun to work only in the midstream of life. Many brilliant springs are delusive in their
promise, but rarely is there such achievement after an unprofitable youth.

Love is not the whole life of a man, but, in spite of new activities, in spite of a renewed
sense of self-respect, Edmund had time and space enough for much pain in his heart.

Rose was still in Paris taking care of her mother, who was very unwell. Edmund had hinted at
the possibility of going over to see them at Easter, but the suggestion had met with no encouragement.
He had felt rebuffed, and was in no mood to be smoothed or melted by Rose's written sympathy.
He was, no doubt, harder as well as stronger than before his financial troubles. He let Rose
see that he could stand on his feet, and was not disposed to whine. Meanwhile Molly had provoked
him to single combat. The decided cut she gave him at the Court was not to be permitted; he
was too old a hand to allow anything so crude. He meant to be at her parties; he meant to keep
in touch; indeed he meant to see this thing out.

"Sir Edmund, will you take Miss Dexter in to dinner?"

Edmund looked fairly surprised and very respectful as Mrs. Delaport Green spoke to him. Molly's
bearing was, he could see, defiant, but she was clearly quite conscious of having to submit
and anxious to do nothing absurd.

They ate their soup in silence, for Molly's other neighbour had shown an unflattering eagerness
to be absorbed by the lady he had taken down. Edmund turned to her with exactly his old shade
of manner, very paternal, intimate and gentle.

"And you are not bored yet?"

Molly could have sworn deep and long had it been possible.

"No; why should I be?"

She stared at him for a moment indifferently, as at a stranger, but he could see the nervous
movement of her fingers as she crumbed her bread.

"It is more likely," he answered, "that I should remember what I allude to than that you should.
We once had a talk about being bored. I said I had never been bored while I was poor. Now I
am poor again, so I naturally remember, and, as you are trying the experience of being very
rich, I should really like to know if you are bored yet."

Molly might have kept silent, but she did not want Adela, who was certainly watching them,
to think her embarrassed.

"I suppose every one has moments of being bored."

Edmund leant back and turned round so as to allow of his looking fully at her. He muttered
to himself: "Young, beautiful, wealthy beyond the dreams of avarice--and bored! What flattering
unction that is to the soul of a ruined man."

In spite of her anger, her indignation, her hurt pride, Molly was softened. She writhed under
the caress of his voice; it had power still.

"Are you not bored any more?" She spoke unwillingly.

"No," he said, "suffering does not bore; discomfort does not bore; knowledge of your fellow-creatures
does not bore. But, of course, I am tasting the pleasures of novelty. And I have not disappeared
yet. I think a boarding-house in Bloomsbury may prove boring. How prettily our hostess will
pity me, then. But I don't think I shall meet you here at dinner, and have the comfort of seeing
for myself that you, too, are bored."

Molly felt that he was putting her hopelessly in the wrong. She was the one bitterly aggrieved
and deeply injured. But he made her feel as if coldness on her part would be just the conduct
of any rich heartless woman to a ruined man.

"I calculate," he said, "on about fifty more good dinners which I shall not pay for, and then,
of course, I shall think myself well fed at my own expense in an Italian café somewhere. I
think Italian, don't you? Dinner at two shillings! There is an air of spagghetti and onions
that conceals the nature or age of the meat; and the coffee is amazingly good. One might be
able to find one with a clean cloth."

Most of these remarks were made almost to himself.

"You know it isn't true," Molly said angrily; "you know you will get a good post. Men like
you are always given things."

Edmund helped himself very carefully to exactly the right amount of melted butter. "Don't you
eat asparagus?" he interjected, and, without waiting for an answer, went on:

"I thought so too, but I can't hear of a job. There are too many of the unemployed just now.
However, no doubt, as you say, I shall soon be made absolute ruler of some province twice the
size of England."

He laughed and smoothed his moustache with one hand.

"Down with dull care, Miss Dexter; let us make a pact never to be bored--in Bloomsbury, or
West Africa, or Park Lane. I suppose you found a great deal to do to that dear old house?"

After that their other neighbours claimed them both; but during dessert Molly, against her
will, lost hold of the talk on her right, and had to listen to Edmund again.

"I hear that you have got the old Florentine looking-glasses from my sale."

"I don't think they were from your sale," said Molly hastily.

"Well, Perks told me so."

"Perks never told me," muttered Molly.

"I should think they must suit the house to perfection. Where have you put them?"

"In the small dining-room."

"Yes; they must do admirably there. I should like to see them again." He looked at her with
a faintly sarcastic smile. She knew what he intended her to say, and, against her will, she
said hastily:

"Won't you come and see them?"

"With great pleasure."

Molly saw that Adela had risen, and sprang up and turned away in one sudden movement. She was
very angry with him for forcing her to say that, and she could not conceive what had made her
yield.

"'The teeth that bite; the claws that scratch,'" he thought to himself, "but safely chained
up--and the movements are beautiful." He stood looking after her.

"I did as you told me," said the hostess, pausing for a moment as she followed her guests to
the door. "If Molly blames me, shall I say that you asked to take her in?"

"Say just what you like; I trust you entirely." He did not attempt to speak to Molly after
dinner, or when they met again at a ball that same night. All her burning wish to snub him
could not be gratified. He seemed not to know shat she was still in the room. But she knew
instinctively that he watched her, and she was not sorry he should see her in the crowd, and
be witness, however unwillingly, to her position in the world he knew so well. It added to
the sense of intoxication that often possessed her now. "Be drunken," says Baudelaire, "be
drunken with wine, with poetry, with virtue, with what you will, only be drunken." And that
Molly could be drunken with flattery, with luxury, with movement, with music, with a sense
of danger that gave a strong and subtle flavour to her pleasures, was the explanation (and
the only one) of how she bore the hours of reaction, of the nausea experienced by that spiritual
nature of hers which she had been so surprised to discover. It was not the half-shrinking,
half-defiant Molly Edmund had talked to in the woods of Groombridge, whom he watched now. That
Molly was gone, and he regretted her.

CHAPTER XXVII

MOLLY'S APPEAL

Edmund, it seemed, was in no hurry to see his Florentine looking-glasses again. Ten days passed
before he called on Molly, and on the eleventh day Mr. Murray, Junior, wrote to say that he
had some fresh and important intelligence to give him, and asked if Sir Edmund would call,
not at his office, but at his own house.

Edmund flung the letter down impatiently. The situation was really a very trying one. He did
not believe--he could not and would not believe--that Molly was carrying on a gigantic fraud.
Murray was a lawyer, and did not know Miss Dexter; his suspicions were inhuman and absurd.
From the day on which she had spoken to him about her mother's reply to her offer to go to
Florence, Edmund had in his masculine way ranged her once for all among good and nice women.
He had felt touched and guilty at a suspicion that he had been to blame in playing his paternal
rôle too zealously. Until then he had at times had hard thoughts of her; after that time he
was a little ashamed of himself, and he believed in her simplicity and goodness. He was sorry
and disappointed now that she was making quite so much effect in this London world. There was
something disquieting in Molly's success, and he could appraise better than any one what a
remarkable success it was. But he felt that she was going the pace, and he would not have liked
his daughter to go the pace, unmarried and at twenty-two. She needed friendship and advice.
But the pinch came from the fact that the wealth he could have advised her to use wisely ought
to be Rose's, and that he was resolved, in the depths of his soul, to regain that wealth for
his cousin--for that "belle dame sans merci" who wrote him such pretty letters about his troubles.

Edmund put Murray's letter in his pocket, and immediately went out. He was living in a small,
but clean, lodging in Fulham, kept by a former housemaid and a former footman of his own, now
Mr. and Mrs. Tart, kindly souls who were proud to receive him. He gave no trouble, and the
preparation of his coffee and boiled egg was all the cooking he had done for him. Mrs. Tart
would have felt strangely upset had she known that the said coffee and egg were, on some days,
his only food till tea-time; she was under the impression that he lunched at his club when
not engaged to friends. Both she and Mr. Tart took immense pains with his clothes, and he would
rather have been well valeted than eat luxurious luncheons every day.

He went out at once after getting Murray's letter, because he wanted to call on Molly before
he heard any more of the important intelligence.

Molly was alone when he was announced. She had told the butler she was "not at home," but somehow
the man decided to show Sir Edmund up because he saw that he wished to be shown up. Edmund
had always had an odd influence below stairs, partly because he never forgot a servant's face.

Molly coloured deeply when she saw her visitor. She was annoyed to think that he would make
her talk against her will--and they would not be interrupted. She could have used strong language
to the butler, but she did not dare tell him that she would now see visitors. It would look
to Edmund as if she were afraid of a tête-à-tête.

Almost as soon as he was in the room she had an impression that he was quite at home, curiously
at his ease.

"I am glad the house is so little changed. I came to my first dance here. You have done wonderfully
well, and all on the old lines. A friend told me it was the hugest success."

A remembrance of past jokes as to Edmund's second-hand compliments and his friend "Mr. Harris"
came into Molly's mind, but she only felt angry at the remembrance.

He talked on about the pictures and the furniture until she became more natural. It was impossible
not to be interested in her work, and the decoration and furnishing of the whole house was
her own doing, not that of any hireling adviser. Then, too, he knew its history, and she became
keenly interested. She had at times a strong feeling of the past life still in possession of
the house, into which her own strangely fated life had intruded. She wanted, half-consciously,
to know if her guilty secret was a desecration or only a continuance of something that had
gone before.

Suddenly she leant forward with the crude simplicity he was glad to see again.

"Have there been any wicked people here?" Her voice was low and young.

"'All houses in which men have lived and died are haunted houses,'" he quoted. "It's not very
cynical to suppose that there has been sin and sorrow here before now."

"I think," said Molly quickly, "there was a wicked woman who used the little dining-room; perhaps
she was only a guest. I don't think she went upstairs often."

"Perhaps she came in with my looking-glasses," suggested Edmund. "I have often wished I could
see what they have seen."

Molly was now quite off her guard.

Edmund rose and examined some china on a table near him.

"Why are you so displeased with me?" he said, without any change of voice.

Molly sprang to her feet, careless whether her unguarded vehemence might betray her to his
observation.

"I shall not answer that question," she said; but he knew that she would answer it.

"You cut me at the Court; you were displeased at having to sit by me at dinner; you have pretended
not to see me at least four times since then, and your butler showed me up by mistake."

Molly had moved away from him to the window. She knew she must speak or her conduct would look
too like wounded love--a thing quite unbearable. She knew, too, that his influence would make
her speak, and, besides that, something in her cried for the relief of speech. She needed a
fight although she did not know it; an open fight with an enemy she could see would distract
her from the incessant fight with an enemy she did not see.

"You are a strange man!" she cried, holding the curtain behind her lightly as she turned towards
him. "You could make friends with me so that all the world might see you, and meanwhile, at
the very same time, you were paying a low Italian scoundrel to produce lies against my sick
and lonely mother! You could watch me and get out of me all you wanted to know because I was
ignorant of the world. You could use the horrible influence you had gained over me by your
experience of many women, to manage me as you liked. You told me not to marry Edgar Tonmore
for some reason of your own; you told me to go and stay with my aunt; you came to see me one
night in London, and wormed out of me my relations with my unfortunate mother. With all your
knowledge of the world, with all your experience, did you never think I might come to find
you out?"

Molly paused for a moment. She held herself erect, her white gown crushed against the rich,
dark curtain, her great eyes searching the trees in the park below as if she sought there for
the soul of her enemy. She did not know that she pulled hard at the curtain behind her with
both hands; it could not have held out much longer, strong though it was.

"No; you knew life too well not to know that you might be found out, but the truth was that
you did not care. It was so little a thing to you that, when you saw that I knew the truth,
you could go on just the same, quite unabashed. The dwarf nose was very clever and happy in his purchases. So he went as often
as it allowed him the time, ever, even on the market to poultry and Fruit shop. One morning
he went to the Gaensemarkt and investigated heavy fat geese, as she loved the Lord. He was eyeing
several times gone up and down. His figure, far from here to excite laughter and ridicule commanded
respect, because they recognized it felt as the famous chef of the Duke's mouth, and each Gaensefrau
be happy when He turned her nose.

Then he looked right at the end of a row in one corner a woman sitting on the geese also had cheap,
but not like the others who advertised their wares, he came to this and measured and weighed her
geese. They were, as he wished, and he bought three, along with the cage, invited them to his
broad Shoulders and went to walk back. Since it seemed to him strange that only two of these
Geese cackled and screamed as the manner of geese right to do, but the third very quiet and withdrawn
sat there and uttered sigh and groaned like a man - "This is half sick," he said to himself, "I must
hurry, I kill them and dressing." But the goose answered clearly and loudly:

"Stitches you me, So Bite me up. You hit off my throat, I bring up the early Grave. "

Was very frightened of the dwarf nose down his cage, and the goose saw him with beautiful, shrewd
eyes and sighed.

"Why the thousand!" cried nose. "You can talk, Miss Goose? I would have thought not. Well, you
is not only anxious! You know to live and is not such a rare bird go to body. But I would
bet you is not always been in these springs.

I was once a mundane and even squirrels. "

"You're right," said the goose, "if you say, I was not in this humiliating
Huelle been born.

Ah, on my cradle, it was not me singing, that Mimi, the great Weather Bocks daughter to be
killed in the kitchen of a Duke! "

"Be you but quiet, sweet maid Mimi," comforted the dwarf. "As I an honest Guy and His Highness
Unterkuechenmeister am, it is not to your throat. I will instruct you in my own apartments a stall,
feed you should have enough, and my free time I will devote your
entertainment, the rest I will Kuechenmenschen To say that I have
a goose with all sorts of special herbs for fatten Duke, and when
opportunity to find, I put you in freedom.

"

The goose thanked him with tears, and the dwarf was doing as he promised, killed the two other
geese, for Mimi but he built a separate house on the pretext it for
the Herzog especially trimming.

He was no ordinary Gaensefutter but provided it with cakes and sweet dishes.

Whenever he had free time, he went to talk to her and to console them. Also they told each
other their stories, and nose learned in this way that the goose was a daughter of the magician's
weather Bock, who live on the island of Gotland. He was got into a fight with an old fairy who
overcome it by trick and cunning and to have revenge turned into a goose and a long way away up
here. When the dwarf nose she had also told his story, she said, read "I am not inexperienced in
' Things. My father has given me and my sisters some guidance as much as he namely could tell them. The
history of the dispute on Kraeuterkorb, your sudden transformation, when you smelled on that
herb, a few words of the ancients, who you told me to prove I want you to enchant herbs are,
that is, if you find the herb, which is has the thought in your fairy enchantment, so you can
be saved. " This was a small consolation for the little ones: for where to find the herb? But
he thanked her and drew some hope.

About this time the Duke was a visit from a neighboring princes, his friend. He had therefore
come his dwarf nose in front of him and said to him: "Now the time has come where you gotta show
me if you like me faithful service and master of your art are. This Fuerst, who is with me
to visit, known to feed off me best and is a great connoisseur fine cuisine and a wise man now
ensures that my table every day so am concerned that he gets more and more amazing. In this case
you must, by my disgrace, as long as he is to bring any food twice. For that you can put on
my treasurer everything can be rich, you need only.

And if you gold and diamonds in swimming lard have to then do it! I would rather be a poor man,
as blush in front of him. "

So said the Duke! The dwarf said as he bowed gracefully: "It was like you say, O Lord! So it
pleases God who, I will do everything so that the princes Gutsch the Mecker wohlgefaellt. "

The little cooking now sought out his entire art. He spared the treasures of his master not less
but himself because he was seen all day in a cloud of smoke eingehuellt and fire, and his voice
echoed constantly through the vaults of the kitchen, for He ordered a ruler and the lower Kuechenjungen
cooks. Lord! I could make it like the camel driver from Aleppo, where they in their stories
that they tell the passengers, people can dine splendidly. You lead a full hour all the courts
of which have been applied, and thereby arouse great desire and even
bigger Hunger in your audience so that they open involuntarily, inventories
and a meal stop and tell the camel drivers plenty, but I do not so.

The foreign prince was a fortnight with the Duke and lived gloriously and joyfully. You ate
of the day not less than five times, and the Duke was pleased with the art of Dwarf, for he saw
his guest's satisfaction on the forehead.

On the fifteenth day but It came to pass that the Duke sent for the dwarf to dinner, him to his
guest, the Prince, presented and that asked how he was pleased with the Dwarf.

"You're a wonderful cook," replied the stranger prince, "and know
what to eat decent means.

You've repeated the whole time, I'm here, not a single food and all prepared excellently. But
tell me, why do not you bring as long as the Queen Food, Souzeraine the pie? "

The dwarf was very frightened, for he had never heard of this Pastetenkoenigin,
but He summed up and answered: "O Lord a long time, I hoped, should
be on your face this's court, so I came up with this dish, for which
you should because of the cooking welcome on the day of separation
as the queen of the pies?

"

"So?" said the duke, laughing. "And you wanted me to wait probably
till my death, to me then to welcome to?

After all, I have set before you the pie before. But think of another word of farewell, for
tomorrow you have to put the pie on the table. "

"It was, as you say, sir!" said the dwarf, and left. But he was not happy; for the day of his
disgrace and his misfortune had come. He did not know how he should make pie. He therefore went to
his room and wept over his fate.

Then came the goose Mimi, who was allowed to walk around in his room to him and asked him about the
Cause of his misery. "Silence your tears," she replied as she of the pie Souzeraine heard, "this
court came often to my father's table, and I know approximately what one this need, you take
this and that, so many, and if not quite everything is what actually needed to achieve this,
the men will not have such fine taste. "So said Mimi.

The dwarf jumped for joy, blessed the day when he bought the goose had, and made as if to make
ready for the queen of the pies. He first made a small trial, and, behold, it tasted excellent,
and the Oberkuechenmeister, which he cost-admitted again praised his extensive art.

The other day he sat on the pie in larger form and sent them warm as they came out of the oven,
after he had tasted with Blumenkraenzen on the board. Himself but put on its best party dress
and went into the dining room. entered as r, was the Obervorschneider just busy to cut up the
pie and on a silver Schäufelein the Duke and his guest add rich.

The Duke was doing into a hearty bite, hit eyes on the ceiling and srach after he had swallowed,
"Ah, ah, ah call Right! This is the queen of the pies, but my dwarf is also the king of all cooks!
Not So, dear friend? "

The host took several small bites to cost and checks carefully and smiled scornful and mysterious.
"The thing is very cleverly done," he said by the Hinwegrueckte plate, "but the Souzeraine
is it not quite yet, I've probably thought. "

The duke frowned resentment against the forehead, and blushed with
shame.

"Dog of a Dwarf, "he cried," how dare you, this is harming your Lord? Shall I give you your
great Head cut off can be a punishment for your bad cooking? "

"Oh, Lord, For heaven's sake, I have prepared the court but by the rules of Art, it certainly
can not miss a thing! "So said the dwarf, and trembled.

"It's a lie, you rascal!" replied the duke, and pushed him with his foot on his own. "My host
would say otherwise, something is missing. Yourself, I will chop and cook be in a pie! "

"Have pity!" cried the little boy and slid on his knees to the guest
whose feet he included.

"Say, what's missing in this dish that it does not suit your palate? Let I do not die because
of a handful of meat and bone meal. "

"This will help you much, my dear nose," replied the stranger, laughing,
"that have I thought yesterday that you can not make this dish as
my cooking.

Know it lacks an herb that is known not even in this country, the herb Niesmitlust, without this
remains without the pie spice, and thy Lord will never eat like me. "

As the ruler of Istan Frank flew into a rage. "And yet I'll eat them," he exclaimed with sparkling eyes,
"for I swear by my princely honor: either I'll show you tomorrow the pie, like asking you to - or the head
of this guy getting impaled on the gate of my palace.

Go, you dog, once again I'll give you twenty-four hours. "

So cried the Duke, and the dwarf went into his little room in tears and complained of the goose
his fate and that he must die, because of the herb he had never heard of. "Is it only this, "she
said," because I can help it, because my father taught me all herbs .

Know Well you might be at a different time of death was, but fortunately it is just new moon, at this
time of blossoms and the herb. But, to say, are old chestnut trees in the vicinity of the
palace? "

"Oh yes!" said nose with a lighter heart. "In the lake, two hundred yards from the house, is
a whole group, but why this?

"Only at the foot of old chestnut blooms the herb," ​​said Mimi, "so let us no time MISS look
and what you need, take me on your arm and sit down in the open; I will seek you. "

He did as she said, and went with her to the gate of the palace. There, however, stretched the Tuerhueter
the gun before and said, "My good nose, with you it's over, out of the house you may not,
I have the strictest orders about it. "

"But in the garden I can not go well?" said the dwarf. "Be so kind as to send one of your companions
to the overseer of the palace and ask if I did not go into the garden ? And allowed to find herbs "The
Tuerhueter did so, and it was allowed, for the garden had high walls,
and it was thinking of no escape from it.

But nose with the goose Mimi had come into the open, he put her down gently, and they quickly
went ahead of him the lake, where the chestnuts were. He followed it with heavy heart, for it
was indeed his last, only hope they did not find the herb, it was his decision firm, he then crashed
into the sea rather than that he had warheads. The goose looked in vain, they walked in all
chestnuts, she turned every blade of grass with its beak around, it wanted to show anything, and
she started out of pity and fear to cry, because even The evening
was dark and the objects around were harder to see.

Since the fall of the dwarf looks out over the lake, and suddenly
he exclaimed: "See, see, there over the lake is still a big, old tree,
let's go there and look, maybe blooming where my luck.

"

The goose had hopped and flew forward, and after he ran as fast as
his little legs; the chestnut tree cast a long shadow, and it was
dark around, almost nothing was be identified, but there was suddenly
struck the goose stand still, for joy with the wings, then drove quickly
to the head into the tall grass, and plucked from something they astonished
the Delicate nose with her beak, handed over and said, "This is the
herb, and grows here a lot of it, so it you can never miss it.

"

The dwarf looked at the herb thoughtfully, a sweeter smell it streamed forth from this, the
him involuntarily recalled to the scene of his transformation, and the stalk, the leaves were
blaeulichgruen, she wore a burning red flower with a yellow edge.

"Praise be to God!" he exclaimed at last.

"What a miracle! Know, I think it's the same thing Herb that transformed me from a squirrel in this
disgraceful form, shall I trying to make? "

"Not yet," asked the goose. "Take this herb from a handful with you, let us for your Rooms
go and your money, and what you otherwise, to snatch, and then we
want to try to force the herb, "and she did so, and went back to his
chamber, and the Audible heart beat with anticipation of the dwarf.

After fifty or sixty ducats he had saved, had made some clothes and shoes together in a bundle,
said He said: "It is pleasing to God would I get rid of this burden," his nose was deep in The
herbs and inhaled its fragrance.

Then she took it and cracked it in all his limbs, he felt, how his head from his shoulders
lifted, he glanced down at his nose and looked smaller and smaller,
his back and his chest began to level, and his legs were longer.

The
goose was surprised to all this. "Ha, what are you big, beautiful
what you are!" called them. "Thank God, it's nothing more to you of
everything you were before!"

Then Jacob was very happy, and he folded
his hands and prayed. But his pleasure let him do not forget what
thanks he was guilty of the goose, although he urged his heart to
his go to parents, but he defeated in gratitude this wish and said,
"Who but I have to thank you that I am myself again given? Without
you I would have this Herb would have never found, so stay forever
in that form or maybe even below the ax of the executioner must die.
Well, I will reward you.

It seemed during the past winter that Mark would carry all before him; he had come into close
contact with the poor, and in the circle in which his personal influence could be felt there
was a real movement of religious earnestness and moral reform. There was a noticeable glow
of zeal in the other curates and in the parish workers, who, with one or two exceptions, were
enthusiastic in their devotion to him personally and to his notions of work. Even after Easter
several of the recently-cured drunkards were persevering, and other notoriously bad characters
seemed determined to show that the first shoots of their awakened moral life were not merely
what gardeners call "flowering shoots," but steady growths giving promise of sound wood.

Mark's sermons were becoming more and more the rage, and people were heard to say that he was
the only Catholic preacher in London, excepting perhaps one or two Jesuit Fathers; while he
had also the tribute of attention from the press, which he particularly disliked.

Meanwhile, the old rector was still gruff and still proffered snubs which were gratefully received,
for Mark was genuinely anxious not to be misled by the atmosphere of praise and affection in
which he was living.

Nothing warned him of impending danger (to use a phrase of old-fashioned romance) when he was
told that Miss Dexter was asking to see him. He had not seen her for a long time, and was quite
glad that she should come.

He looked young, eager, and happy as he came quickly into the parlour, but after a few minutes
the simple warmth of his manner changed into a more negative politeness. There was something
so gorgeous in Molly's appearance, and so very strange in her face, that even a man who had
seen less of the world than is obtained in a year on the mission in London, could not fail
to be somewhat puzzled.

Molly hardly spoke for some moments, and silence was apparently inevitable. Then she burst
out, without preparation, in a wild, incoherent way, with her whole life's story. The story
of a child deserted by her mother, neglected by her father, taken from the ayah who was the
only person who had ever loved her, and sent like a parcel to the care of a hard and selfish
aunt who was ashamed of her. It might have been horribly pathetic only that it was impossible
that so much egotism and bitterness should not choke the sympathy of the listener. But as the
story came to Molly's twenty-first year, the strange, bitter self-defence (she had not yet
explained why she should defend herself at all to Father Molyneux), all the unpleasing moral
side of the story became merged in the sense of its dramatic qualities.

Molly had never told it to anyone before now, and, indeed, she had not realised several features
of the case until quite lately. She told well the disillusion as to her mother, her own single-handed
fight with life, the double sense of shame as to her mother's past, and her own ambiguous position.
She told him how she felt at first meeting Rose Bright, of her own sense of sailing under false
colours, and she actually explained, in her strange pleading for a favourable judgment, how
everything that happened had naturally hardened her heart and made her feel as if she had been
born an outcast. Lastly, she told how Sir Edmund Grosse had pursued her mother with detectives,
and, as she had for a time believed, had pursued herself with the hypocritical appearance of
friendship. She had been wrong, it seemed now, in judging him so harshly, but it had hurt terribly
at the time.

Through all this Mark was struggling against the repulsion that threatened to drown the sympathy
he wanted to give her. But he had, naturally, not the faintest suspicion as to what was coming
or that Molly was confiding in him a story of her own wrong-doing. He was absolutely confounded
when she went on, still in the tone of passionate self-defence, to tell how she had found the
will leaving the whole of Sir David's fortune to Lady Rose. He simply stared at Molly when
she said:

"Who could suppose for a single moment that I should be obliged, on account of a scrap of paper
which was evidently sent to my mother for her to dispose of as she liked, to become a pauper
and to give a fortune to Lady Rose Bright?"

But although he was too astounded for speech, and his face showed strange, stern lines, it
was now that there awoke in his heart the passionate longing to help her; he saw now her whole
story in the most pathetic light, from the little child deserted by her mother, to the woman
scorned and suffering, left by the same mother in such a gruesome temptation. The greatness
of the sin provoked the passionate longing to save her. The man who had given up Groombridge
Castle and all it entailed had not one harsh thought for the woman who had fallen into crime
to avoid the poverty he had chosen for his own portion.

"It's a hard, hard case," he murmured, to Molly's surprise.

She had been so occupied in her own outpouring that she had hardly thought of him at first,
except as a human outlet for her story made safe by the fact that he was a priest. But when
he had betrayed his silent but most eloquent amazement, she had suddenly realised what the
effect of her confidences might be on such a man, and half expected anathemas to thunder over
her head.

Then he tried to find out whether there was any kind of hope that the will had, in fact, been
sent to her mother to be at her disposal. But suddenly Molly, who had herself suggested this
idea, rent it to pieces and brought out the whole case against her mother (and, consequently,
against herself) with a fierce logic of attack.

This was more like the Molly whom he had known before, and Mark felt the atmosphere a little
clearer. Having left not the faintest shadow of a defence for her own action, she suddenly
became silent. After some moments she leant forward.

"Do you know," she said, in a tone so low that he only just caught the words, "I see now what
must have happened. It is strange that I never thought of it before. I see it now quite clearly.
Of course the will and the letter were wrongly addressed, and probably some letter to my mother
was sent to Lady Rose."

"That does not follow," said Father Molyneux.

"But it's not unlikely," argued Molly. "It is more probable that the two letters should be
put into the wrong envelopes than that one should be addressed to the wrong person. It's a
mistake that is made every day, only the results are usually of less consequence. It must have
been curious reading for my mother--that letter about herself to Lady Rose Bright."

"It is so difficult," said Mark, feeling his way cautiously, "to be sure of not acting on fancied
facts when there are so few to go upon. Do you suppose that the detective in Florence had any
definite plan of action given to him by his employer? For just supposing that your guess is
right, they may have got some clue to what happened in the letter that was sent by mistake
to Lady Rose. Have you no notion at all whether they may not now have got some evidence to
prove that there was another will?"

Molly shook her head.

"Do you think," she said, "they would have been quiet all this time if there had been any real
evidence at all? It is three years since Sir David died, and six months since my mother died."

She did not notice how Mark started at this information. Had Miss Dexter, then, been in possession
of this letter to Lady Rose and the last will for six months?

"You were not sent these papers at once?" he ventured to ask.

"Yes; Dr. Larrone, who attended my mother, brought them to me. He left Florence two hours after
she died."

Another silence followed.

"It seems to me that a great deal might be done by a private arrangement. Probably their case
is not strong enough, or likely to be strong enough, for them to push it through. It should
be arranged that you should receive the £1000 a year that Sir David intended to give your mother."

Molly laughed scornfully.

"I'd rather beg my bread than be their pensioner. No, no; you entirely mistake the situation.
I shall have no dealings with them at all--no nonsense about arbitration or private arrangements.
I won't give them any opportunity of feeling generous. It must"--she spoke very slowly and
looked at him fiercely--"with me it must be all or nothing, and"--she got up suddenly and began
smoothing her gloves over her wrists--"and as I don't choose to starve it must be all. But
if I can't go through with it (which is quite possible) I shall throw up the sponge and get
out of this world as quickly as possible."

"If you have made up your mind," said Mark sternly, "to defy God, in Whom I know that you believe,
to defy the laws of man, whose punishment may come, whereas His punishment must come, why have
you told me all this?"

"I had to tell some one; I was suffocating. You don't know"--she stood looking out of the window
a strange expression of hunger and loneliness succeeding the fierceness of a few moments before--"you
don't know what it is to have in your own mind a long, long story about yourself that has never
been told. To have been lonely and hardly treated and deceived and spurned, and never to have
put your own case to any one human being! To have cried from childhood till twenty-two, knowing
that nobody really cared! There comes a time when you would rather say the worst of yourself
than keep silence. To accuse yourself is the natural thing; silence is the unnatural thing."

"Good God!" said Mark, rising, "don't stop there. If you must accuse yourself, pass judgment
also. Class yourself where you have chosen with your eyes open to stand. Would you allow any
amount of provocation and unhappiness to excuse a systematic fraud? Do you think that the thief
brought up to sin has less or more excuse than you have? Are you the only person who has known
a lonely childhood? Can you tell me here in this room that God never showed you what love really
is? He has never left you alone, and you wish in vain now that He would leave you alone. For
your present life is so unbearable that you feel that you may choose death rather than go on
with it."

"I shall pay heavily for the relief of speech if I am to have a sermon preached all to myself,"
said Molly insolently. "I was speaking of the need of human love; I was speaking of all I had
suffered, and it is easy for you to retort upon me that I might have had Divine Love only that
I chose to reject it. Tell me, were you brought up without a mother's love?"

"No; I had--I have a mother who loves me almost too much."

"Have you known real loneliness?"

"I believe every man and woman has known that the soul is alone."

Molly shook her head.

"That is a mood; mine was a permanent state. Have you ever known what it is to see God's will
on one side, and all possibilities of human happiness, glory, success, and pleasure, opposed
to it?"

The young man blushed deeply.

"Yes, I have."

Molly was checked.

"I forgot," she answered; "but still you don't understand. You were an intimate friend of God
when He asked you for the sacrifice, whereas I--I had only an inkling, a suspicion of that
Love. Besides, you were not asked to give all your possessions to your enemies! No; too much
has been asked of me."

"Can too much be asked where all has been given?" asked Father Molyneux.

"That is an old point for a sermon," said Molly wearily. "You don't understand; you are of
no use to me. Good-bye! I don't think I shall come again."

CHAPTER XXX

THE BIRTH OF A SLANDER

After that visit to Father Molyneux the devil seems to have entered into Molly. It was a devil
of fear and, consequently, of cruelty. What she did to harm him was at first unpremeditated,
and it must be allowed that she had not at the moment the means of knowing how fearful a harm
such words as hers could do. She said them too when terror had driven her to any distraction,
and when wine had further excited her imagination. Still it would not be surprising to find
that many who might have forgiven her for a long, protracted fraud, would blot her out of their
own private book of life for the mean cruelty of one sentence.

Not many hours had passed after the visit before Molly was furious with herself for her consummate
folly in giving herself away to the young priest, who might even think it a duty to reveal
what she said.

She had once told Mark that she might soon come to hate him, as hatred came most easily to
her. There was now quite cause enough for this hatred to come into being. Molly had two chief
reasons for it. First, she was in his power to a dangerous extent and he might ruin her if
he chose; secondly, she was afraid of his influence--chiefly of the influence of his prayers--and
she dreaded still more that he should persuade her to ruin herself.

One evening Molly had been with Mrs. Delaport Green and two young men to a play. It was a play
that represented a kind of female "Raffles"--a thief in the highest ranks of society, and the
lady Raffles had black hair. The lady stole diamonds, and fascinated detectives, and even beguiled
the ruffianly burglar who had wanted the diamonds for himself. It was a far-fetched comparison
indeed, but it worried and excited Molly to the last degree. They went back to supper at Miss
Dexter's house, and there one more lady and another man joined them. They sat at a gorgeous
little supper at a round table in the small dining-room, Mrs. Delaport Green opposite Molly,
and Lady Sophia Snaggs, a spirited, cheery Irishwoman, separated from the hostess by Billy,
with whom the latter had always, in the past weeks, been ready to discuss the poverty and the
failings of Sir Edmund Grosse. Of the other two men, one was elderly, bald, greedy, fat and
witty, and the other was a soldier, spare, red and rather silent but extremely popular for
some happy combination of qualities and excellent manners. It would seem hardly worth while
to say even this little about them, only that it proved of some importance that the few people
who heard Molly's words that night, and certainly repeated them afterwards, had unfortunately
rather different and rather wide opportunities of making them known.

The Florentine looking-glasses that once belonged to Sir Edmund Grosse, with their wondrous
wreaths of painted flowers, looked down from three sides of the room and reflected the pretty
women and their gowns, the old silver, the rare glass, and the flowers. They were probably
refreshed by the exquisite taste of the little banquet that might recall the first reflection
of their youth. Morally there was a rift within the lute among the guests, for Molly betrayed
that Adela had got on her nerves. Lady Sophia Snaggs poured easy conversation on the troubled
waters, but at last the catastrophe could not be averted.

At a moment when the others were silent Adela was talking.

"Yes; I went to hear him preach, and it is so beautiful, you know. Crowds; the church was packed,
and many people cried. You should go. And then one feels how real it is for him to preach against
the world, because he gave up so much."

Molly drained her glass of champagne and leant across.

"Whom are you talking about?"

"Father Molyneux."

"I thought so."

"Have you heard him preach?" asked Lady Sophy.

"I used to, but I never go now." She again leant forward and spoke this time with unconcealed
irritation. "Adela, I don't go now because I know too much about him."

There was immediate sensation.

Molly slowly lit a cigarette. Even then she did not know what she was going to say, but she
had determined on the spur of the moment, and chiefly from sheer terror, to put Mark out of
court if she possibly could.

"He is a humbug," she proclaimed in her low, incisive tone.

"Oh! come now," said Billy. "A man who gave up Groombridge--extraordinary silly thing to do,
but he is not a humbug!"

Molly turned on him.

"Yes, he is. He knows he made a great mistake and he would undo it if he could."

"Molly, it can't be true!" cried Adela almost tearfully. "If you had only heard him preach
last Sunday you couldn't say such hasty, unkind, horrid things!"

"It is true," said Molly.

"Our hostess is pleased to be mysterious," said the fat man, and "you know," turning to Mrs.
Delaport Green, "it's very likely that he is sorry he made such a sacrifice, but I don't think
that prevents its having been a noble action at the time."

"Or makes him a humbug now," said the soldier. "I believe he is an uncommonly nice fellow."

"Oh! she means something else," said Lady Sophia, looking at Molly with curiosity. "What is
it you have against him?"

Molly felt the table to be against her, and it added to her nervous irritability. She was not
in any sense drunk, and the drugs she took were in safe doses at present; yet she was to a
certain degree influenced both by the champagne she had just taken, and the injection she had
given herself when she came in from the theatre.

"You will none of you repeat what I am going to say?"

"I probably shall," said the big guest, "unless it is excessively interesting; otherwise I
never remember what is a secret and what isn't."

But Molly did not heed him.

"Well," she said, "it is a fact that Father Molyneux would give up the Roman Church to-morrow
if a very intimate friend of mine, who could give him as much wealth as he has lost, would
agree to marry him after he ceased to be a priest!"

"Oh! how dreadfully disappointing!" cried Adela.

"Why shouldn't he?" said Billy.

"It seems a come-down," said the fat man; and the soldier said nothing.

"Stuff and nonsense," said Lady Sophia firmly. "Somebody has been humbugging you, Molly."

But being a lady who liked peace better than warfare, she now went on to say that she had had
no notion how late it was until this moment, and that she really must be off. Her farewell
was quite friendly, but Molly's was cold.

The departure of Lady Sophia made a welcome break, and, in spite of the hostess being silent
and out of temper, the men managed to divert the conversation into less serious topics. But
they were not likely to forget what Molly had impressed upon their minds by the strange vehemence
with which she had emphasised her accusations.

"She meant herself, I suppose?" asked Billy, when leaving the house with his stout fellow guest.
"Do you believe it?"

"It was very curious, very curious indeed. Do you know I rather doubt if she wholly and entirely
believed it herself."

Billy was puzzled for a moment, thinking that some difficult mental problem had been offered
for his digestion.

"Oh, I see," he said, as he opened his own door with his latch-key. "He only meant that she
was telling a lie; I suspect he is right too."

CHAPTER XXXI

THE NURSING OF A SLANDER

Meanwhile, in shadowy corners of Westmoreland House, Miss Carew lived a monotonous but anxious
life. For days together she hardly saw Molly, and then perhaps she would be called into the
big bed-room for a long talk, or rather, to listen to a long monologue in which Molly gave
vent to views and feelings on men and things.

Molly's cynicism was increasing constantly, and she now hardly ever allowed that anybody did
anything for a good motive. She had moods in which she poured scandal into Miss Carew's half
excited and curious mind, piling on her account of the wickedness and the baseness of the people
she knew intimately, of the sharks who pursued her money, and, most of all, she showered her
scorn on the men who wanted to marry her.

Listening to her Miss Carew almost believed that all the men Molly met were divorcés, or notoriously
lived bad lives, and hardly veiled their intention to continue to do the same after obtaining
her hand and her money.

Molly would lie on a sofa, in a gorgeous kind of déshabille which cost almost as much as Miss
Carew spent on her clothes in the whole year, and apparently take delight in scaring her by
these hideous revelations. She was so strange in her wild kind of eloquence, and it was so
impossible to believe all she said, that the doubt more than once occurred to Miss Carew whether
it might be a case of the use of drugs. The extraordinary personal indulgence of luxury was
unlike anything the older woman had ever come across. Then there was no system, nothing business-like
about Molly as there often is in women of the modern world. Miss Carew dimly suspected that
any society of human beings expects some self-discipline, and some sacrifice to ordinary rules.
As it was she wondered how long Molly's neglect of small duties and her frequent insolence
would be condoned.

All this, which had been coming on gradually, was positively nauseous to the middle-aged Englishwoman
whose nerves were suffering from the strain, and she came to feel that it would be impossible
to endure it much longer. It would be easier to drudge and trudge with girls in the schoolroom
for a smaller salary than to endure life with Molly if she were to develop further this kind
of temper.

For months now Miss Carew had lived under a great strain. From the evening when she had found
Molly sitting on the floor with the tin box open before her, and old, yellow letters lying
on the ground about it, she had been almost constantly uneasy. She could not forget the sight
of Molly crouching like a tramp in the midst of the warm, comfortable room, biting her right
hand in a horrible physical convulsion. It was of no use to try to think that Molly's condition
that night was entirely the result of illness, or that the loss of her unknown mother had upset
her to that degree or at all in that way. The character of Molly's mental state was quite,
quite different from the qualities that come of grief or sickness. Then had followed the very
anxious nursing, during which all other thoughts had been swallowed up in immediate anxiety
and responsibility.

During Molly's convalescence, in the quiet days by the sea-side, Miss Carew began to reflect
on a kind of coherent unity in the delirious talk she had listened to during the worst days
of the illness. And she also noticed that Molly, by furtive little jokes and sudden, irrelevant
questions, was trying to find out what Miss Carew had heard her say. Then it became evident
that Molly attributed all the excitement of that night to her subsequent illness--only once,
and that very calmly, alluding to the fact of her mother's death.

Miss Carew had no wish to penetrate the mystery of the black box and the faded letters. She
had a sort of instinctive horror of the subject, but she could not but watch the fate of the
box when they came back to the flat. Molly paid no attention to it whatever, and said in a
natural tone:

"I shall send my father's dispatch box and sword-case and my own dispatch boxes in a cab. Would
you mind taking them and having them put in the little room next to my bed-room?"

But in the end Molly had taken them herself, as she thought Miss Carew had a slight cold. Miss
Carew always had a certain dislike to the door of the little room next to Molly's, which had
evidently been once used for a powder closet. She did not even know if the door were locked
or not, and she never touched the handle. She had an uncanny horror of passing the door, at
least so she said afterwards; probably in retrospect she came to exaggerate her feelings as
to these things.

She was puzzled and confused: her health was not good, and her faculties were dimmed. It was
probably the strain of living with Molly whom she could no longer control or guide, and who
was so evidently in dire need of some one to do both. She felt dreadfully burdened with responsibility,
both as to the things she did understand and the things she did not understand. What she could
not understand was a sense of moral darkness, like a great, looming grey cloud, sometimes simply
dark and heavy, and at other times a cloud electric with coming danger. She felt as if burdened
with a secret which she longed to impart, only that she did not know what it was. At times
it was as if she carried some monstrous thing on her back, whilst she could only see its dark,
shapeless shadow. Her self-confidence was going, and her culture was so useless. What good
was it to her now to know really well the writings of Burke, or Macaulay--nay, of Racine and
Pascal? She had never been religious since her childhood, but in these long, solitary days
in the great house that grew more and more gloomy as she passed about it when Molly was out,
she began to feel new needs and to seek for old helps.

Molly was sometimes struck by the change in her companion. Miss Carew seemed to have grown
so futile, so incoherent and funny, unlike the Miss Carew who had been her finishing governess
not many years ago.

The sight of Carey's troubled, mottled face began to irritate Molly to an unbearable degree.

"Why not have a treatment for eczema and have done with it? You used to have quite a clear
skin," she cried, in brutal irritation one morning.

"Oh! it's nerves--merely nerves," said poor Miss Carew apologetically.

"Then have a treatment for nerves," cried Molly furiously. "It is too ridiculous to have blotches
on your face because I have a bad temper!"

It was the night after the little supper party at which the slander was born that Molly said
this rude thing, and then abruptly left the drawing-room to join a hairdresser who was waiting
upstairs. Almost immediately afterwards Adela Delaport Green was standing over the stiff chair
on which Miss Carew was sitting, very limp in figure, and holding a damp handkerchief to her face.

"How d'ye do? They told me Molly was here," she said in a disappointed voice, and her eyes
ranged round the room with the alertness of a sportswoman.

Adela had come with a purpose; she had come there to right the wrong and to force Molly to
tell the truth.

"She was here a moment ago. She has just gone up to the hairdresser," said Miss Carew as she
got up, quickly restoring the damp handkerchief to her pocket and composing her countenance,
not without a certain dignity. She liked Adela, who was always friendly and civil whenever
they met.

That little lady threw herself pettishly into a deep chair.

"So tiresome when I haven't a minute to spare, and I suppose he will keep her nearly an hour?"

"Can I take a message?"

"Oh! no, thanks, dear Miss Carew, don't go up all those horrid steep steps. Do rest and entertain
me a little. I am sure you feel these hot days terribly."

"I find it very cool and quiet here," said Miss Carew, a little sadly.

"I'm afraid it's lonely," cried Adela.

"Well! I oughtn't to grumble about that."

"No, you never do grumble, I know; but I feel sometimes that you must be tired and anxious,
placed, as you are, as the only thing instead of a mother to poor, dear Molly!"

The fierce, quick envy betrayed in that "poor, dear Molly" did not reach Miss Carew's brain,
and a little sympathy was very soothing.

"Now, could any fortune stand this sort of thing?" asked Adela.

The companion shook her head sadly, but would not speak.

"You know that she has bought Sir Edmund Grosse's old yacht? And that she is taking one of
the best deer forests in the Highlands? And is it true that she is thinking of buying Portlands?"

"Oh, yes!" sighed Miss Carew. "There is some new scheme every day."

"She has everything the world can give," said Adela sharply. "But, you know," she went on,
"people won't go on standing her manners as they do now, even if she can pay her amazing way!
Do you know that her cousin, Lady Dawning, declares she won't have anything more to do with
her? Not that that matters very much; old Lady Dawning hardly counts, now that Molly has really
great people as her friends, only little leaks let in the water by degrees."

A pause, and then suddenly:

"Do you know Father Molyneux?"

"Yes," said Miss Carew, who was glad to change the subject. "He is very charming."

"I didn't know he was a friend of Molly's."

"Oh! didn't you? She took a great fancy to him last autumn; he used to come to luncheon."

"Did he come often?"

"Oh! I think so, but I don't remember exactly."

"And has he been coming here lately?"

"I really don't know. I have my meals by myself now; the hours were so irregular, and I am
too old and dull for Molly's friends. I know she went to see him a few days ago, and she came
back looking agitated. I was rather glad--I thought it would be good for her, but I fear it
was not. She has been more excited, I think, these two or three days. Her nerves are really
quite overwrought; she allows herself no quiet. Yes; she was very much excited after seeing
Father Molyneux."

Miss Carew was talking more to herself than to Adela.

"I thought perhaps he had pressed her to become a Roman Catholic; certainly he upset her in
some way."

Adela's small eyes were like sharp points as she looked at the older woman.

Then was it really true? Oh! no; surely not. But then, what else could he have said to upset Molly?

At that moment Molly's maid came into the room.

"Miss Dexter has only just heard that you were here, madam. She is very sorry you have been
waiting. She wished me to say that she is obliged to go immediately to a sale at Christie's,
and would you be able to go with her?"

Adela declined, perceiving that Molly was in no mind for a private talk, and having parted
affectionately from Miss Carew, went her way to have a chat with Lady Dawning.

In the afternoon she met several of her Roman Catholic acquaintances at a charity performance
in a well-known garden, and she pumped all those she could decoy in turn into a tête-à-tête
as to Father Molyneux. She was in reality devoured with the wish to know the truth. She had
her own thin but genuine share of ideality, and she had been more impressed by Mark's renouncement
of Groombridge Castle than by anything she had met with before.

But gradually, as she hunted the story, she gave him up, not because of any evidence of any
kind, but because she did not find him regarded as anything very wonderful. She had need of
the enthusiasms of others to make an atmosphere for her own ideals, and almost by chance she
had not met anyone much interested in the young preacher. Then she had dim backwaters of anti-Popery
in her mind, and they helped the reaction. She had come out, lance in rest, to defend the victim
of calumny; in a very few days she had thrown him over, and was explaining pathetically to
anybody who would listen that she had had a shock to her faith in humanity. And the story,
starting by describing her own state of mind and being almost entirely subjective, ended in
bringing home to her listeners with peculiar force the objective facts as asserted by Molly.
Catholics, she found, when she came to this advanced state of propagation, were aghast at her
story. They did not believe it, but they were excessively annoyed, and were, for the most part,
inclined to think that Mark could not have been entirely prudent. But non-Catholics were, naturally,
more credulous.

A calumny is a quick and gross feeder. It has a thousand different ways of assimilating things
"light as air," or things dull from the ennui which produced them, or things prickly with envy,
or slushy, green things born of unconscious jealousy, or unpleasant things born of false pieties,
or hard views born of tired experience, or worldly products of incredulity, or directly evil
suggestions, or the repulsions of satiated sensuality, or the bitter fruits of melancholia,
or the foreshadowings of insanity, or the mere dislike of the lower moralities for the higher,
or the uneasiness felt by the ordinary in the presence of the rare, or the revolt felt by the
conventional against holier bonds, or the prattle of curiosity, or the roughness of mere vitality,
or the fusion of minds at a low level.

This particular calumny was well watered and manured with all these by-products of human life,
and it grew to full size and height with a rapidity that could not have been attained under
less favourable conditions.

BOOK IV

CHAPTER XXXII

ROSE SUMMONED TO LONDON

Rose was back in London the second week in July, summoned back rather imperiously by Mr. Murray,
Junior. The house had been shut up since the departure of her tenants at Whitsuntide, and she
had hoped not to reopen it until the autumn. She had intended to go directly to her mother's
home in the country as soon as they could leave Paris. It was becoming a question whether it
would be a greater risk for Lady Charlton to endure the heat in Paris or the fatigues of the
long journey. Mr. Murray's letter decided them to move. Rose must go, and her mother would
not stay behind alone. Lady Charlton decided to pay a month's visit to her youngest daughter
in Scotland, as Rose might be kept in London.

It was a disappointment. The house in London would be nearly as stuffy as Paris. Rose disliked
the season and was in no mood for the stale echoes of its dying excitements. She would not
tell her friends that she was back; she would keep as quiet as she had been in Paris.

The first morning, after early service and breakfast, she went to the library to wait for the
lawyer's visit. It was the only room in which to receive him; the dining-room, and drawing-room,
and the little boudoir upstairs, were not opened. Rose was inclined to leave them as they were,
with the furniture in brown wrappers, for the present; but she would rather have seen Mr. Murray
in any room but the library.

The morning sun was full on the windows that opened to the rather dreary garden at the back.
She wondered why Mr. Murray had written so urgently, and why Edmund Grosse had not written
for several weeks. Up to now they had done all this horrid business between them, and she had
only had occasional reports from her cousin. Now she must face the subject with the lawyer
himself. She was puzzled to account for the change in the situation.

At the exact moment he had mentioned, Mr. Murray's tall person with its heavy, bent head appeared
in the library. As they greeted they were both conscious that it was in this same room, seated
at the wide writing-table still in the same place, and still bearing the large photograph of
Sir David Bright, where he had first told her of the strange dispositions of her husband's
will. He remembered vividly her look then--undaunted and confident--as she had gently but firmly
asserted that there must be another will. But had she not also said it would never be found?

But the present occupied the lawyer much more than the past. He was eager and a little triumphant
in his story of the progress of the case, and did not notice that the sweet face opposite to
him became more and more white as he went on. He told her all he had told Sir Edmund when he
first got back from the yacht; he told of the mysterious visit he had received from Dr. Larrone,
and how he could prove from the letters of the Florentine detective that Madame Danterre had
sent the doctor to England to take a certain small, black box to Miss Dexter.

Then he paused.

"I told Sir Edmund how our Florentine detective, Pietrino, had made friends with one of the
nurses, and that she described Madame Danterre ordering the box to be opened and having a seizure--a
heart attack--while the letters were spread out on her bed. Nurse Edith said then that she
had put them back in a hurry and locked the box, and that it had not been reopened by Madame
Danterre. Some weeks later when she was near her end, Madame Danterre had a scene with Dr.
Larrone which ended in his consenting to take the box to London as soon as she was dead, but
the nurse was sure that the doctor was told nothing as to the contents of the box. That was
as much as we knew up to Easter, and while waiting for the arrival of Akers, and Stock, the
other private who had witnessed the signature. They got here in Easter week, and I saw them
with Sir Edmund, and we both cross-questioned them closely. Akers's evidence is beyond suspicion,
and is perfectly supported by that of Stock. He described all that happened at the witnessing
of the General's signature most circumstantially, but, of course, he knew nothing of the contents
of the paper. But now I have more important evidence than any we have had so far, and the extraordinary
thing is that Sir Edmund does not wish to hear it. I cannot understand why!"

Rose remained silent. She was looking fixedly at a paper-knife which she held in her hand.

It suddenly struck the lawyer as a flash of most embarrassing light that possibly there was
some complication of a dangerous and tender kind between Sir Edmund and his cousin. He could
not dwell on such a notion now--it might be absolute nonsense, but it made him go on hastily:

"I have had a visit from Nurse Edith, and as Pietrino suspected, she knows much more than she
would allow to him. I think she was waiting to see if money would be offered for her information,
but Pietrino would not fall into the risk of buying evidence. He waited; she was watched until
she came to London, and she had not been here twenty-four hours before she came to me. She
declares now that, as she was gathering up the papers, she had seen that the long letter Madame
Danterre had been reading when she had the attack of faintness was written to some one called
Rose. She knew it was that letter which had done the mischief. She slipped it into her pocket
when she put the rest away. I believe it was naughty curiosity, but she wishes us to think
that she knew the whole scandal about the General's will, and did what she did from a sense
of justice. When off duty she took the paper to her room, and when she opened it she found
the will inside it. In her excitement she called the housemaid, an Englishwoman with whom she
had made friends, and she copied the will while they were together, and the names of Akers
and Stock--of whom she could not possibly have heard--are in her copy. I have seen that copy,
Lady Rose, and----" He paused and glanced at her for a moment, and then his eyes sought the
trees in the garden even as they had done when he had made that other and awful announcement
on the day of the memorial service to Sir David. Rose flushed a little, and her breathing came
quickly, but she made no sign of impatience.

"Sir David left the whole of his fortune to you subject to an annual payment of a thousand
a-year to Madame Danterre during her lifetime."

Complete silence followed. Lady Rose either could not or would not speak. Out of the pale,
distinguished slightly worn face the eyes looked at Mr. Murray with no surprise. Had she not
always said that she did not believe the iniquitous will Mr. Murray had brought her to be the
true one, but had she not also maintained that the true will would never be found? She did
not say so to Mr. Murray, but in fact she shrank from making too sure of Nurse Edith's evidence.
She had so long forbidden herself to believe in the return of worldly fortune or to wish for it.

Mr. Murray coughed. No words of congratulation seemed available. At last he went on:

"Nurse Edith says she did not read the letter which was with the will. Directly she went on
duty in the morning, and while Madame Danterre was asleep she put the papers back in the black
box and the key of the box in its usual place in a little bag on a table standing close by
the head of the bed. It was, as I have said, this same box which was put into Dr. Larrone's
care before he started on his mysterious journey to see Miss Dexter. Now our position is very
strong. We have evidence of the witnessing of a paper by two men. We have the copy of the will
made by the nurse and witnessed by the housemaid, and it bears the signatures of those two
men. Then you must remember that, in a case of this kind, the court is much more likely to
set aside a will leaving property away from the family than if the will in dispute had been
an ordinary one in favour of his relations."

"Oh! it is horrible--too horrible!" cried Rose. "There must be some mistake. That young girl
I met at Groombridge! Even if the poor mother were really wicked, that girl cannot have carried
it on!"

Rose had leant her elbows on the table, and clasped her white hands tightly and then covered
her face with them for a moment.

"I can't believe it. I feel there is some terrible mistake, and we might ruin this girl's life.
It would be ill-gotten, unblest wealth."

The lawyer noted with surprise that these two--Sir Edmund and Lady Rose--were not more anxious
for wealth, rather less so, since both had known comparative poverty.

"I don't believe anyone is the better for living on fraud, Lady Rose, and I don't believe you
have any right to drop the case. You have to think of Sir David's good name and of his wishes.
The will you are suffering from was a portentous wrong."

Rose trembled. Had she not felt it the most awful, the most portentous wrong? Had it not burnt
deep miserable wounds in her soul? The whole horror of the desecration of her married life
had been revealed to her in this room by this man. Did she need that he should tell her what
that misery had been? The words he had used then were as well known to her as the words he
had used to-day.

Rose said after a longer pause, and with slight hesitation:

"And Sir Edmund does not know what Nurse Edith told you? He has not seen the copy of the will?"

"No; I wanted him to, but he refused to hear any more on the subject. I cannot understand it
at all." He spoke with considerable irritation, his big forehead contracted with a deep frown.
"Sir Edmund, after making the guess on which the whole thing has turned, after discovering
Akers and Stock, after spending large sums in the necessary work----"

"Has he spent much money?" Rose flushed deeply.

But Mr. Murray, who usually had more tact, was now too full of his grievance to pause.

"He spent money as long as he could, and now takes no more interest in the matter on the ground
that he can no longer be of any use. Why, it was his judgment we wanted, his perceptions; no
one could be of more use than Sir Edmund!"

"And who is paying the expenses now?"

"Ah! that is the reason why I wished to see you as soon as possible. I felt that I could not,
without your approval, continue as we are now. The last cheque from Sir Edmund covered all
expenses to the end of the year. I have advanced what has been necessary since then, and if
you really wish the thing dropped, that is entirely my own affair. But I do most earnestly
hope that you will not do anything so wrong. I feel very strongly my responsibility towards
Sir David's memory in this matter."

"I feel," said Rose, but her manner was irresolute, "that the scandal has been forgotten by
now; things come and go so fast. He will be remembered only as a great soldier who died for
his country."

"It may be forgotten," said Mr. Murray in a stern voice she had never heard before. "It may
be forgotten in a society which is always needing some new sensation and is always well supplied.
But there is a less fluctuating public opinion. We men of business keep a clearer view of character,
and we know better how through all classes there is a verdict passed on men that does not pass
away in a season. Do you think, madam, that when men treasure a good name it is the gossip
of a London season they regard? No; it is the thoughts of other good men in which they wish
to live. It is the sympathy of the good that a good man has a right to. I believe in a future
life, but I don't imagine I know whether in another world they rejoice or suffer pain by anything
that affects their good name here. But I do know, Lady Rose, that deep in our nature is the
sense of duty to their memory, and I cannot believe that such an instinct is without meaning
or without some actual bearing on departed souls. I don't expect Sir David to visit me in dreams,
but I do expect to feel a deep and reasonable self-reproach if I do not try to clear his name."

The heavy features of the solicitor had worked with a good deal of emotion. The thought, the
words "departed souls," were no mere words to him in these summer days while Mrs. Murray, Junior,
was supposed to be doing well after an operation in a nursing home, and the doctors were inclined
to speak of next month's progress and on that of the month after that, and to be silent as
to any dates far ahead. In his professional hours he did not dwell on these things, but it
was the actual spiritual conditions of the life he and his wife were leading that gave a strange
force to his words.

"She never loved him," thought Mr. Murray as he looked out of the window. He was on the same
side of the writing-table that he had been on when he had first told her of the deep insult
offered to her by Sir David. He did not realise now the intensity of the contempt he had felt
then for the departed General as he looked at his photograph. It was intolerable, he had thought
then, that a man should have those large, full eyes, that straight, manly look and bearing,
who had gone to his grave having deliberately planned that his dead hand should so deeply wound
a defenceless woman, and that woman his sweet, young wife. Murray's mind was so full now of
relief at the idea that Sir David had done his best at the last, that in his relief he almost
forgot that, in a woman's mind the main fact might still be that there had been a Madame Danterre
in the case!

But Rose now, as when he had first told her of Madame Danterre's existence, was seeking with
a single eye to find the truth. It had seemed to her then a moral impossibility to believe
that her husband had meant to leave this horrible insult to their married life. David had been
incapable of anything so monstrous; he had not in his character even the courage of such a crime.

But now the key to the situation, according to Mr. Murray, was Molly; and Rose again brought
to bear all that she had of perception, of experience, of instinct, to see her way clearly.
She was silent; then at last she looked up.

"Mr. Murray, Miss Dexter could not commit such a crime. Why, I know her; I spent some days
in a country house with her. I know her quite well, and I don't like her very much, but she
really can't have done anything of the kind, and therefore, the case won't be proved. I am
sure it won't. And if it fails only harm will be done to David's memory, not good."

"That is what Sir Edmund said, but believe me, Lady Rose, you have neither of you anything
to go upon. You think it impossible, but you don't either of you see the immense force of the
temptation. Some crimes may need a villainous nature. This, if you could see it truly, only
needs one that is human under temptation, ignorant of danger, and ambitious."

"But then, was that why Edmund would have nothing more to do with the case?" thought Rose.

The look of clear, earnest, searching in Rose's eyes was clouded by a frown.

The clock struck twelve. Mr. Murray rose.

"I am half an hour late for an appointment. Lady Rose, forgive me; I am an old man, and maybe
I take a harsh view of what passes before me. But there is nothing, let me tell you, that alarms
me more in the present day than the way in which men and women lose their sense of duty in
their sense of sentimental sympathy."

CHAPTER XXXIII

BROWN HOLLAND COVERS

That afternoon Rose was standing by the window in the drawing-room when she became conscious
that her gown was quite hot in the burning sun, and, undoubtedly, its soft, grey tone would
fade. She drew back and pulled down the blinds.

It was not the first time she had put off her black, for, in the Paris heat, it had become
intolerable, and she had certainly enjoyed her visit to an inexpensive but excellent dressmaker,
who had produced this grey gown with all its determined simplicity.

Rose looked round at the drawing-room now. The furniture in holland covers was stacked in the
middle of the room; the pictures were wrapped in brown paper with large and rather unnecessary
white labels printed with "Glass" in red letters. The fire-irons were dressed in something
that looked like Jaeger and the tassels of the blinds hung in yellow cambric bags. Rose smiled
a little as she recalled how strange and strong an impression a room in such a state had made
on her in her childhood. The drawing-room in her London home had seemed incomparably more attractive
then than at any other time. Lady Charlton had once brought Rose up to see a dentist on a bright,
autumn day. She had not been much hurt, but it was a great comfort when the visit was over.
She and her mother had dinner on two large mutton chops, and some apricot tartlets from a pastry-cook,
things ordered by Lady Charlton with a view to giving as little trouble as possible to two
able-bodied women who were living on board wages, and both of whom were, in private life, excellent
cooks. Lady Charlton was anxious, too, not to give trouble by sending messages, having quite
forgotten that there was also a boy who lived in the house. So, after lunch, she had gone out
to find a cab for herself, and had left Rose to rest with a book on the big morocco sofa in
the dining-room.

Rose had found her way to the drawing-room, and she could see now the half-open shutter and
the rich light of the autumn sun turning all the dust of the air to gold in one big shaft of
light. The child had never seen the house when the family was away before, and with awestruck,
mysterious joy, she had lifted corners of covers and peered under chairs and recognised legs
of tables and footstools. Then she had stood up and taken a comprehensive view of the whole
of this world of mountains and valleys, precipices and familiar little home corners, all covered
in brown holland, like sand instead of grass, all golden lights and soft shadows.

What had there been so very exciting in it--an excitement she could still recall as keenly
now? Was it the greatness of the revolution, or surprise at the new order of things? It was
such a startling interruption of all the usual relations between the furniture of the house
and its human beings. A great London house wrapped up in the old way spoke more of the old
order its influence, its importance, than did the house when inhabited, and out of its curl
papers. Nothing could speak more of law and order and care, and the "proper" condition of things,
and the self-respect of housemaids, the passing effectiveness of sweeps, and the unobtrusive
attentiveness of carpenters! But to the child there had been a glorious sense of loneliness
and licence as she danced up and down the broad vacant spaces and jumped over the rolls of
Turkey carpets.

Rose envied that child now, with an envy that she hoped was not bitter. It is not because we
knew no sorrows in our childhood that we would fain recall it. It is because we now so seldom
know one whole hour of its licensed freedom, its absolute liberty in spite of bonds.

A loud door-bell, as it seemed to Rose, sounded through the house as she closed the shutter
she had opened when she came in. She knew whose ring it must be, and came quietly downstairs
with a little frown.

Edmund Grosse had been shown into the library. The room looked east, and was now deliciously
cool after the street. The dark blinds were half-way down, and a little pretence at a breeze
was coming in over the burnt turf of the back garden.

Edmund's manner as he met her was as usual, but tinged perhaps with a little irony--very little,
but just a flavour of it mingled with the immense friendliness and the wish to serve and help her.

Rose was, to his surprise, almost shy as she came into the room, but in another moment she
was herself.

"Mamma has borne the journey splendidly. Years, that the
  reputation of the vampires in Hungary, Pohlen, Silesia and has begun
  to spread Moravia. Calmet wrote his book Ghosts and vampires in
  1745. and in truth in the newspaper Mercurius mentioned in the 1693rd
  and 1694. Over years we read similar stories of many vampires
  in Pohlen, and particularly in Pohlisch traps.
  

  [D] What is in Greece, and in the Archipelago of the Brucolachen = = tell
  it, this is namely what one professes elsewhere by the vampires. The abbot
  Langlet says in the preface of his historical-dogmatic Treatise of
  the phenomena = =: Vampyr, Brucolach or Timpanit gleichdeutige are all
  words. , In the second volume of this book p. 173 we read the word comes
  from the new Greek words Brucolach βοουρχος, which is called mud, and
  the other by a λααχος which a pit or Cloack anzeiget being that it is
  commonly observed that the crypts, where beisetzet like body, are full
  of mud.

Tournefort Illuminator and a learned physician, but also the most skilful Botanicus Reasonable or herb
of his century as it was in the fourteenth Louis, kings, France, been sent to Asia, mainly in
Greece look to that of herbs that the ancients had described the most part very wrong, was
himself present, and saw those very close to the body, which one of witchcraft after the death
(Magia Posthuma) indicted had. He also saw all the means to prevent it applied to the devil of this
body could no longer be operated to put the living in fear and terror. [e] The circumstances this
coincidence can be found in the book, which leadeth the title: Voyage au Levant par Mr. Tournefort.
And because the nature and manner of the letters is written, it is gemeldte history 3rd in the letters.

[E]
This is the first of January was 1,701th in the island to Micon.

  The abbot Calmet this story tell it in his above-mentioned Beech 32nd
  Cap. namely, as to how we of Tournefort have received.
  
  This event can be seen, what to make of those who are in Hungarians
in the village of Haydon properties beyond the river Tisza with Transylvania
in 1732. has occurred.

[f] The witchcraft of the Dead (Magia Posthuma) went back in those areas in vogue. They called
the dead, who were so vicious, Vampyri, and believed that they suck both our people as the cattle
blood. [g] And if a man of the flesh of such a Cattle would have enjoyed something, he would order
for themselves and for the Vampyre, and on what always a way, he will become a vampire, namely,
as a sufferer (passivus) in life, one would He Being active after death (activus), other than he
had previously from the earth of the Tomb of a Vampyres eaten and rubbed with the same blood.

[F]
Several such stories can be found recorded in a Dutch critic of us under the French name Le Glaneur
in 1732. has been known. Still others read it in the so-called Jewish Epistles = = 1738, and
in the Abten Calmet displayed = = beech Cap. 8.

  
  [G] = = vampire, or Upyr schlavonisches is a word, and is called
  Drain on = =.
  
  But it is me this story only ever known and I supposition that the
oral Memoir (processus verbalis) on their course in the beginning
of the 1732nd Year due places been filed.

  [h]
  

[H] Charles VI. Rom. Kaiser (seel. In thought) gave this Businessman Alexander, Prince of the host
mountain, where the time Kingdom of Servia managed.

  The ceremonies, which have been dabey must observe are in the office
  or Hadvagy man of being local has been ordered to learn what
  matters in vampyre fairly had.

Man Blow ye the Vampyre a very sharp stake through the chest, and through the whole Body.
Then his head was cut off. Everything was burned and the ashes in the pit gescharret together.

It
can be swift to Vampyre. Because of vampirism to put so much as the dross. It is also believed that
the body of a vampire in a short time, all those bodies to vampires do, in which case, the first
not to be buried him in the very same cemetery, will vertilget at
times.

But since I do not have news on all the circumstances, so I will just be content with I'm here
a few comments about those events, which only recently Time was investigated
by people who are prejudiced by any prejudices, but clearly see, and
lead does not easily leave behind the light.

[i]

[I] This accident went into a village in Moravia, as seen in the angemerket has a first note.
The abbot in his Calmet cited Beech 57th Chapter says that the Lord
Baron of Tusseng (Tousiaint) a Lothar Inger, who accompanied his master
everywhere out of 3 August month 1746th I wrote him from Vienna: Her
Majesty the Kaiser, Grand Duke of Tuscany, have in 1732. different
Proto Collen of judicial investigation of the vampires give in Moravia
.

  Let This proto Collen be in those areas as the Gospel considered, they
  never included eight no shadow of truth.
  
  It is true that our vampires from 1755. still no leeches become, and
  the preparations were, however, already do so. The executioner, in
  his craft, no doubt very truthful Assured me that if it hewed to the fire
  which condemned the body into pieces, the Blood, violence, and often it
  hervorschöße whether he had afterwards with Our greatest serenity known
  that this frequent blood etwann could make a spoon full.

This draws in history to be quite a change.

The extraordinary incident characteristics which you want to have therapy may zween in this
Points are drawn together. First, that the bodies of dead vampires or sorcerers not bad, but
quite, and remain together. Secondly, that the vampires, the living alarmed by appearances,
tumult, and overprints.

About this zween points will I make as short as it is possible a few comments.

2. §.

Whether the rotten body of the vampires?

A body is commonly addressed to Verfäulung by which all parts of the
body; except the legs, disappear almost entirely, and only a little
from a very light Earth can return.

This happens in the grave Fäulung but slowly, without the slightest violence.

This is proven by the fact that when a coffin five ten years from
the same burial opened, and eight believed that the coffin gets no
push, you vermeinet, the body lie unverletzet clerical estate.

Man knows the whole face of education, the Leilach, By the way, and all. But as soon as the coffin
moveth only a little, then everything falls into dust and bones verbleibet alone.

Seeing that the dead by the time their successors must make half of the grave space, so one
has in many places 15th Years are destined, before the course of
the grave-digger no body villages move.

I am a few times at the opening of the graves was that the grave-digger to me Some coffins
opened slowly. In this way, I was convinced that after our Death of the worms do not become food,
at least not all the time because otherwise the face of education would not be stopped.

When breaking down the graves, we find at times the whole body, which is not rotten, but rather dry, a
light brown color, and very hard meat have not had that one they
ever einbalsamiret vorhero.

A sexton assured me that one commonly finds one in a hundred dead, which is just dried up
and without Fäulung sey. From this I conclusion that without the aid of a supernatural cause, a
body many years could remain ungefault.

I know very well that it pretends, the body of a vampire remain not only without Fäulung, but there
is also the meat in its freshness, the limbs remain Bügsamkeit.

But even this can be found without a miracle.

Because they saw the body of the zween archduchesses which died at
Brussels, brought to Vienna had, so I was present when they opened
the coffins.

Their faces were completely, and the Movable nose & c. It is true they were einbalsamiret: but
the aromatic herbs, you were down to, even without the slightest odor. This conservation must
therefore first and foremost the well-sealed lead coffin be appropriated, which never allowed any
air and thus prevented the Fäulung.

Accordingly, when the coffin closed well, the earth naturally laid
on each other is through the Cold hardens after the funeral, or to
penetrate the air by other means to prevent is, so either no or Followed
but a very slow Fäulung [k].

[K] tell it erwehnte The Dutch critics, that to Tolos in a Monastery
church is a burial Sey, it's somewhere in front of the two hundred
Years deceased body looks as if they were alive.

  You stand there upright on their feet in the length of the Wall ago their
  religious clothing. The wonderful thing is that in the namely places
  of the non wesenen straightforwardly protruding dead in two or three
  days of decay.
  
  The immortal Muratorius as it was in the 27th Treatise on Italian antiquities,
  of a coin of Hector speaks Visconte drucket themselves with these
words: "This was unehliches a child of Bernabo, he seized the reigns
of Mayland in 1412, but he had a life of Biltz.

As Maria Philip, Duke of Mayland, in the town of Monza belageret was Hector got out a crossbow
a heavy stone's throw of his leg shattered. He died quite young spasm. In 1698. I went to
the considerable Area of ​​Monza, I noticed that his body just before the occasion of a building
been excavated. He was locked in a bad wooden coffin, and still intact, that is, the hand was
not injured, and the broken leg could be seen on foot. If this body is Stellet on the other
foot, he stood upright. And yet this was not a body of a saint, but a wicked. "

In the preface of the book already cited, the learned Abten Langlet titled = Historical and dogmatic
treatise on special appearances, faces, and revelations =, reads you, "I seye allows that I may
here quote a Erfahrniß that would result from the PP. Capuchins going on in Palermo on Sicily. Bestätiget
you what I say, namely that the jeweniger Filth in the human body
is, the harder the fermentation and, consequently, the Fäulung relevant.

One of these Vättern (no doubt a noble nature termination) is a means invented, by virtue of which
the Fäulung the human body after death, for many years, and perhaps centuries, can be prevented.
The mystery or secret, which he brauchet this is a bad thing. He setteth the lifeless body of a perforated
Chair, and after he cut the back in the opening round, Go, by this estuary all the moisture,
and cleanliness, which aspires to Fäulung, even on its own the body out. E'en then he closed his
mouth and pulls the body into that position, in what kind of you will, that he should remain.
In this state shall be such a body, if not centuries, at least very many years. The church
of this unterirrdische Vättern like body is fully supplied with all registered names they have
had in life. Face this tragedy just as it is an occasion of humiliation for humanity yet it is also
a very rare thing, and can happen to those strange, which do not recognize its cause. "

I have read a few months, a small English paper, which in 1751. getretten printed to Londen to
light, and in it I found a strange, and very well proven accident. In the month Februarius 1750th
eröfnete one in the county of Devonshire in Engelland the funeral of an old family, and between
many bones, including decayed coffins found is an even entire wooden coffin. Man eröfnete from
the same curiosity, and found a whole Body of a man in it, the carnal part still had their natural
strength, the limbs, however, as shoulder, elbow, and all the fingers were very bügsam. If
you his face expressed, it yielded to the finger, and rose again
after the suppression.

It is this was observed all over. The beard was black, and long to four inches. The body was
embalmed. Because neither a cut yet another sign of it was aware of it. By Pfarrprotocoll
was established that since 1669. no one in this burial been brought. Here we have an English Vampyre,
which over 80 Years in his Tomb has remained quiet, and no one has belästiget.

And in this paper can be found even more like coincidences, and especially if the Very deep graves,
and are of dry soil. Accordingly, we shall commonly true that if such bodies are exposed to
the open air, advised them soon in a Fäulung. This is enough to shew that the Fäulung not always
happen, and generally slow, strange, when the earth by the cold seems to have closed, or even
before the coffin Air is probably keepeth.

Let us now examine the alleged events to claim the vampyre nature.

Rosina died Polakin 22 December 1754th 19 Jenner 1755th but it is excavated, Expound and as
one of the burning Vampyrinn worthy because they had not yet rotted. The anatomists receive the
body of public air in the winter to 6th Weeks, even to Zwey Mona Then without Fäulung. To
the so it should be noted that this extremely cold winter been. In the other bodies the Fäulung the
greater part had been consumed, it was but enough that not everything was rotten. They had
the fire.

What ignorance! frightful Stupidity! you talk in the writing of the
Consistorii to Olomouc from certain characters, and Maale, which we
should have found the bodies of the vampires.

But they are nowhere described. [L] Zween Bader, who never saw an open body, and no word from
the structure of the human Body knew how they themselves the Commissario known are those witnesses,
which Cause the sentence to be pleasing to burn.

[L] Johann Christoph Berg Here is a book Philosophiæ, & Christianæ cogitationes de Vampyris
written in 1733. The author claimed that the vampires in any way the survivors for life , But we must bring
all of them a false reputation aussprenget ascribe a confused and strong imagination. He leadeth
different examples of rare effects of which among the human imagination can carry through.

Even the Dutch obenbenannte critics say, if I at even the death of the martyrdom of vampirism
believed to consider, so I find them all traces of a disease einbilderischen
Area, and know very clearly that the effect of the great fear of the
Causing death in this nation.

  The author brings about a History with.
  
  The famous Tartarotti said as a wise philosopher his Congresso notturno
  delle Lamie l. 2 c. 11. "For what a Story you think is more certain
  than the story of those who who believe that they will abide by the
  nocturnal vampires attacked, and are therefore been printed, that they
  also die in a short time.

  And but it seems in fact itself is nothing to be otherwise, as absolutely
  a dream come herrühret of terror and fear. " From this view was the learned
  pope and church main Benedict the 14th paper in the 5th vol. 3, where
  he held a short History of the Hungarian, Moravian and Silesian vampires
  verfertiget.
  

  The abbot Calmet the decision of its work, often erwehnten endiget
  with these words: "what one of the Hungarian, Moravian and pohl
  African vampires tell it, I think for a smooth illusion, for an
  effect of a strong and confused Phantasey, hardworking ever studied these
  stories of the judges, and in Respect of them and their opinions may
  be-ing gutgeachtet been. "
  
  What betrift pohl the American vampires, he leads a letter dated
  3 Hornung 1745th to him by the P. Slivyski Visitor from the Vättern
  Missions posted in Pohlen, who confesses in the fact that, All eight,
  he never concern all diligence in this matter used to access a reason
and truth to come, and he never eight frequently with those who is
stated as personal witnesses, even talking, and inquire of them, he
but no one was found who would getrauet to say, He saw something of
what it pretends, even.

  Therefore have He may know what you aussprenget them, be a blank cry,
  a mere imagination, the fear in such a simple-minded people causes.

It
  is true the commissary of Olomouc has not at any time to investigate
  these Bader Thing that would have sent enough. It took only zween spiritual
  commissioners, on which the vampirism of all knightly did their
  statement, it appears from the Anteactis, that one in 1723. the body
of a man 13th Burn days after his death , And let the judgments were
given for this cause, because his grandmother in the community in
a good reputation have been sey.

  
  
  In 1724. you burn the body of a man 18th Days after his death because
  he with the former friends have been. It was enough when you only by the
  friendship of a specified Vampire been said the lawsuit was coming to
  an end.
  
  They burn the body of a man zween days after his death for no other Cause,
  without further testimony, as because the body after death well and looked
  good, and the limbs were still bügsam.
  

From all what has been above angeführet, can be removed clear that the maintenance of a body could
be done without Fäulung from all natural causes, that the commonly Fäulung requires a long time,
which according to the previous illness, or after heat Cooling the air, according to the nature
of the earth, and many other random side issues . Changed their That the consistory of Olomouc
the bodies of the time required Fäulung not allowed, therefore this sign of witchcraft of the dead
fundamentally wrong sey.

For this we have drawn the wrong reason most absurd consequences. Because it has been concluded that a
given Vampyre inspire his wickedness all the bodies, which according
to him in just Freudhof same would be buried.

For this naturally had less body rot , Being as others that have been buried before the Vampyre.

For this reason, the great consistory Olomouc to the 23th April 1731st nine bodies burn , Under
which seven small children can bodies were, because it was thought that it is a Vampyre had been
infected, which was buried in front of them in the same Freudhofe.

The dead bodies, however, found that before the Vampyre allda again drove her grave, grace,
yet, the Lord Wabst commissioners, and Gosser proved that in the
bodies of unsuspecting still intact parts have been present, and found
in one of them a little blood been.

They have proved also that the twain ignorant obbemelte Bader traded with lies.

3. §.

Whether the vampires and the living by appearances c. ? Worry

Now is the that the phenomena which in part or whole of their unverfaulten
Bodies are to come from, be given some consideration.

 The Vicar-General of the diocese, a Monsignor of the higher, or pontifical rank,
had called to see the Rector of Mark's church, and had already rapidly discussed other matters
of varying importance when he said, leaning back in an old and faded leather chair:

"What's all this about young Molyneux?"

Both men were fairly advanced in years and old for their age, for they had both worked hard
and constantly for many years on the mission. They had to be up early and to bed late, with
the short night frequently interrupted by sick calls, and on a Sunday morning they had always
fasted till one o'clock, and usually preached two or even three times on the same day. They
had never known for very many years what it was to be without serious anxiety on the matter
of finance. Their lives had been models of amazing regularity and self-control. Their recreations
consisted chiefly in dining with each other at mid-day on Mondays, and spending the afternoon
with whist and music. Probably, too, they had dined with a leading parishioner once or twice
in the week.

In politics they were mildly Liberal, more warmly Home Rulers, but they put above all the interests
of the Church. They were, too, fierce partisans on the controversies about Church music, and
had a zeal for the beauty and order of their respective churches that was admirable in its
minuteness and its perseverance. They both had a large circle of friends with whom they rejoiced
at annual festivities at their Colleges, and with whom they habitually and freely censured
their immediate authorities. Those who were warmest in their devotion to the Vatican were often
the most inclined to make a scapegoat of a mere bishop. But now one of these two old friends
had been made Vicar-General of the diocese, and it was likely that the Rector would speak to
him with less than his usual freedom. Lastly, both men had that air of complete knowledge of
life which comes with the habits of a circle of people who know each other intimately. And
neither of them realised in the least that the minds of the educated laity were a shut book
to them.

"Well," said the Rector, and after puffing at his pipe he went on, "we can hardly get into
the church for the crowd, and I am going to put up a notice to ask ladies to wear small hats--toques;
isn't that what they call them?"

"I heard him once," said the Vicar-General, "and, to tell the truth, it didn't seem up to much."

"Words," said the Rector; "it's Oxford all over. There must be a new word for everything. Why,
he preached on Our Lady the other day, and I declare I don't think there were three sentences
I'd ever heard before! And on Our Lady, too! A man must be gone on novelty who wants to find
anything new to say about Our Lady."

"It doesn't warm me up a bit, that sort of thing," said the Vicar-General. "I like to hear
the things I've heard all my life."

"Of course," responded the other, "but you won't get that from our popular preachers, I can
tell you," and he laughed with some sarcasm.

"Is he making converts?"

"Too many, far too many; that's just what I complain of. We shall have a nice name for relapses
here if it goes on like this."

Both men paused.

"You've nothing more to complain of?" asked the Monsignor.

"No--no--" The second "no" was drawn out to its full length. "Of course, he's unpunctual, and
he's often late for dinner. I don't know where he gets his dinner at all sometimes. And there
are always ladies coming to see him. If there are two in the parlour and another in the dining-room,
and a young man on the stairs, it's for ever Father Molyneux they are asking for. And, of course,
he has too much money given him for the poor, and we have double the beggars we had last year."

"But," said the other, "you know there's more being said than all that. There's an unpleasant
story, and it's about that I want to ask you. Well--the same sort of thing as poor Nobbs; you'll
remember Nobbs?"

"Remember Nobbs! Why, I was curate with him when I first left the seminary. Now, there was
a preacher, if you like! But it turned his head completely. Poor, wretched Nobbs! It's a dangerous
thing to preach too well, I'm certain of that."

"Well, it's a danger you and I have been spared," said the Monsignor, and they both laughed
heartily.

Then they got back to the point.

"Well," said the Rector, "there's a lady comes here sometimes who spoke to me about this the
other day. It seems she went to see John Nicholls, and the poor old blind fellow bit her head
off, but she thought she ought to tell somebody who might put a stop to the talk, and so she
came to me. There's some woman, a very rich Protestant, who gives out openly that she is waiting
till Molyneux announces that he doesn't believe in the Church, and then they will marry and
go to America. Then, another day Jim Dixon came along, and a friend of his had heard the tale
from some Army man at his Club. It's exactly the way things went on about Nobbs, you know,
beginning with talk like that. Really, if it wasn't for having seen Nobbs go down hill I shouldn't
think anything of it. Young Molyneux is all straight so far, but so was Nobbs straight at first."

"A priest shouldn't be talked about," said the Monsignor.

"Of course not," said the Rector.

"He has started too young," the Monsignor went on, not unkindly; "it's all come on in such
a hurry; he ought to have had a country mission first. But my predecessor thought he'd be so
safe with you."

"But how can I help it?" asked the other hotly; "I'm sure I've done my best! You can ask him
if I haven't warned him from his very first sermon that he'd be a popular preacher. I've even
tried to teach him to preach. I've lent him Challoner, and Hay, and Wiseman, and tried to get
him out of his Oxford notions, but he's no sooner in the pulpit than he's off at a hard gallop--three
hundred words to a minute, and such words!--'vitality,' 'personality,' 'development,' 'recrudescence,'
'mentality'--the Lord knows what! And there they sit and gaze at him with their mouths open
drinking it in as if they'd been starved! No, no; it won't be my fault if he turns out another
Nobbs--poor, miserable old Nobbs! Now his really were sermons!"

"Well," said the other, in a business-like tone, "I am inclined to think it would be best for
him to take a country mission for a few years. I've no doubt he is on the square now, and that
will give him time to quiet down a bit. He'll be an older and a wiser man after that, and he
could do some sound, theological reading. Lord Lofton has been asking for a chaplain, and we
must send him a gentleman. I could tell him that Molyneux had been a little overworked in London,
and if he goes down to the Towers at the end of July, no one will suppose he is leaving for
good, eh?"

"Very well," answered the Rector; "I don't want anything said against him, you know. I've had
many a curate not half as ready to work as this man."

"No, no; I quite understand. Well, I'll write to him in the course of the week. And now about
this point of plain chant?" And both men forgot the existence of Mark as they waxed hot on
melodious questions.

I can't believe that Jonathan loved David more than the second curate had come to love Mark
Molyneux in their work together. It is good to bear the yoke in youth, and it is very good
to have a hero worship for your yoke fellow. Father Jack Marny was a young Kelt, blue-eyed,
straight-limbed, fair-haired, and very fair of soul. He would have told any sympathetic listener
that he owed everything to Mark--zeal for souls, habits of self-denial, a new view of life,
even enjoyment of pictures and of Browning, as well as interest in social science. All this
was gross exaggeration, but in him it was quite truthful, for he really thought so. He had
the run of Mark's room, and they took turns to smoke in each other's bedrooms, so as to take
turns in bearing the rector's observations on the smell of smoke on the upstairs landing. Father
Marny had a subscription at Mudie's--his only extravagance--and he always ordered the books
he thought Mark wished for, and Mark always ordered from the London library the books he thought
would most interest Jack. Father Marny revelled in secret in the thought of all that might
have belonged to Mark, and he possessed, of course most carefully concealed, a wonderful old
print he had picked up on a counter, of Groombridge Castle, exalting the round towers to a
preposterous height, while in the foreground strolled ladies in vast hoops, and some animals
intended apparently for either cows or sheep according to the fancy of the purchaser.

But what each of the curates loved best was the goodness he discerned in the other, and the
more intimate they became the more goodness they discerned. The very genuinely good see good,
and provoke good by seeing it, and reflect it back again, as two looking-glasses opposite to
each other repeat each other's light ad infinitum.

It was a Monday, and the rector had gone out to dinner, and the two young men were smoking
in the general sitting-room. Father Marny was looking over the accounts of a boot club, and
objurating the handwriting of the lady who kept them. Mark was in the absolutely passive state
to which some hard-working people can reduce themselves; he had hardly the energy to smoke.
A loud knock produced no effect upon him.

"Lazy brute!" murmured Father Marny, in his affectionate, clear voice, "can't even fetch the
letters." And a moment later he went for them himself, and having flung a dozen letters over
his companion's shoulder, went back to the accounts.

Ten minutes later he looked up, and gave a little start. He was quick to see any change in
Mark, and he did not like his attitude. He did not know till that moment how anxious he had
been as to the possibility of some change. He moved quickly forward and stood in front of the
deep chair in which Mark was sitting, leaning forward with his eyes fixed on the carpet.

"Bad news?" he asked abruptly.

"Bad enough," said Mark, and, very slowly raising his head, he gave a smile that was the worst
part of all the look on his face. Jack Marny put one hand on his shoulder, and a woman's touch
could not have been lighter.

"It's not----?" he said, and then stopped.

"Yes, it is," Mark answered. "I am to be a domestic chaplain to that pious old ass, Lord Lofton.
It seems I need quiet for study--quiet to rot in! My God! is that how I am to work for souls?"

It was, perhaps, better for Mark that Jack Marny broke down completely at the news, for, by
the time he had been forced into telling his friend that it was preposterous to suppose that
any man was necessary for God's work, and that if they had faith at all they must believe that
God allowed this to happen, light began to dawn in his own mind. But he was almost frightened
at the passionate resentment of the Kelt; he saw there was serious danger of some outbreak
on his part against the authorities.

"They won't catch me staying here after you are gone!"

"Much good that would do me," said Mark. "I should get all the blame."

"They must learn that we are not slaves!" thundered the curate, his fair face absolutely black
with wrath.

"We are God's slaves," said Mark, in a low voice, and then there was silence between them for
the space of half an hour.

The door opened and a shrill voice cried out, "There's Tom Turner at the door asking for Father
Mark," and the door was banged to again.

Tom Turner was the very flower of Mark's converts to a good life.

Father Marny groaned at the name.

"Let me see him," he said. "Go out and get a walk."

"I'd rather see him; I don't know how much oftener----"

The sentence was not finished. He had left the room in two strides.

CHAPTER XXXVI

MENE THEKEL PHARES

The more Edmund reflected on the matter the more difficult he found it to decide what steps
to take in order to approach Molly. In the first impulse he had thought only that here was
the chance of serving her, of proving her friend in difficulty, which he had particularly wished
for. It would make reparation for the past--a past he keenly defended in his own mind as he
had defended it to Molly herself, but yet a past that he would wish to make fully satisfactory
by reparation for what he would not confess to have been blameworthy. But when he tried to
realise exactly what he should have to tell Molly it seemed impossible. For how could he meet
her questions; her indignant protests? She would become more and more indignant at the plot
that had been carried on against her, a plot which Edmund had started and had carried on until
quite lately, and which had also until quite lately been entirely financed by him. Even if
he baffled her questions, his consciousness of the facts would make it too desperately difficult
a task for him to assume the rôle of Molly's disinterested friend now, although in truth he
felt as such, and would have done and suffered much to help her.

Edmund had by nature a considerable sympathy with success, with pluck, with men or women who
did things well. There are so many bunglers in life, so few efficient characters, and he felt
Molly to be entirely efficient. Even the over-emphasis of wealth in the setting of her life
had been effective; it fitted too well into what the modern world wanted to be out of proportion.
A thing that succeeded so very well could hardly be bad form. Hesitation, weakness, would have
made it vulgar; hesitation and weakness in past days had often made vulgar emphasis on rank
and power, but in the hands of the strong such emphasis had always been effective and fitting.
There was a kind of artistic regret in Edmund's mind at the thought that this excellent comedy
of life as played by Molly should be destroyed. And he had come to think it certainly would
be destroyed.

One last piece of evidence had convinced him more than any other.

Nurse Edith had a taste for the dramatic, and enjoyed gradual developments. Therefore she had
kept back as a bonne bouche, to be served up as an apparent after-thought, a certain half sheet
of paper which she had preserved carefully in her pocket-book since the night on which she
had made the copy of Sir David Bright's will. It was the actual postscript to Sir David's long
letter to Rose; the long letter Nurse Edith had put back in the box and which had remained
there untouched until Molly had taken it out. The postscript would not be missed, and might
be useful. It was only a few lines to this effect:

"P.S.--I think it better that you should know that I am sending a few words to Madame Danterre
to tell her briefly that justice must be done. Also, in case anyone, in spite of my precautions
to conceal it, is aware that I possessed the very remarkable diamond ring I mention in this
letter, and asks you about it, I wish you to know that I am sending it direct to Madam Danterre
in my letter to her. May God forgive me, and, by His Grace, may you do likewise."

The sight of David's handwriting, the astonishing verification of his own first surmise, the
vivid memory of Rose unwillingly showing him the letter and the ring and the photograph she
supposed to have been intended for herself, had a very powerful effect on Edmund Grosse. The
whole story was so clear, so well connected, it seemed impossible to doubt it. Yet he believed
in Molly's innocence without an effort. What was there to prove that Madame Danterre had not
destroyed the will after Nurse Edith copied it? She had the key and the box within reach, and
the dying, again and again, have shown incalculable strength--far greater than was needed in
order to get at the will and burn it while a nurse was absent or asleep.

Again, it was to Larrone's interest to destroy that will. They had only Pietrino's persuasion
of Larrone's integrity to set against the possibility of his having opened the box on his long
journey to England, against the possibility of his having read the will, and destroyed it,
before he gave the box to Molly. He would have seen at once not only that his own legacy would
be lost, but, what might have more influence with him, he must have seen what a doubtful position
he must hold in public opinion if this came to light. He had been the chief friend and adviser
of Madame Danterre, who had paid him lavishly for his medical services from her first coming
to Florence, and who had made no secret of the legacy he was to receive at her death. He had
been with her at the last, and was now actually carrying on her gigantic fraud by taking the
box to her daughter. Would it not have been a great temptation to him to destroy the will while
he had no fear of discovery rather than put the matter in Molly's hands? Lastly came Rose's
subtle feminine suggestion that the will might be in the box but that Molly had never opened
it. Some instinct, some secret fear of painful revelations, might easily have made her shrink
from any disclosures as to her mother's past. Rose was so often right, and the obvious suggestion,
that such a shrinking from knowledge would have been natural to Rose and unnatural to Molly,
did not occur to the male mind, always inclined to think of women as mostly alike.

At the same time he was really unwilling to relinquish the rôle of intermediary. His thoughts
had hardly left the subject since the hour of his talk with Rose, and it was especially absorbing
on the day on which Molly was to give a party, to which he was invited--and invited to meet
royalty. He decided that he must that evening ask his hostess to give him an appointment for
a private talk.

Edmund arrived late at Westmoreland House when the party was in full swing. He paused a moment
on the wide marble steps of the well staircase as he saw a familiar face coming across the
hall. It was the English Ambassador in Madrid, just arrived home on leave, as Edmund knew.
He was a handsome grey-haired man of thin, nervous figure, and he sprang lightly to meet his
old friend and put his hand on his arm.

"Grosse!" he cried, "well met." And then, in low, quick tones he added: "What am I going to
see at the top of this ascent? This amazing young woman! What does it mean, eh? I knew the
wicked old mother. Tell me, was she really married to David Bright all the time? Was it Enoch
Arden the other way up? But we must go on," for other late arrivals were joining them. When
they reached the landing the two men stood aside for a moment, for they saw that it was too
late for them to be announced. Royalty was going in to supper.

A line of couples was crossing the nearest room, from one within. The great square drawing-room
was lit entirely by candles in the sconces that were part of the permanent decoration. But
the many lights hardly penetrated into the great depths of the pictures let into the walls.
These big, dark canvases by some forgotten Italian of the school of Veronese, gave the room
something of the rich gloom of a Venetian palace. Beyond a few stacks of lilies in the corners,
Molly had done nothing to relieve its solemn dignity. As she came across it from the opposite
corner, the depths of the old pictures were the background to her white figure.

She was bending her head towards the Prince who was taking her down--a tall, fair man with
blue eyes and a heavy jaw. Then as she came near the doorway she raised her head and saw Edmund.
There was a strange, soft light in her eyes as she looked at him. It was the touch of soul
needed to give completeness to her magnificence as a human being. The white girlish figure
in that room fitted the past as well as the present. The great women of the past had been splendidly
young too, whereas we keep our girls as children, comparatively speaking.

Molly had that combination of youth and experience which gives a special character to beauty.
There was no detailed love of fashion in her gorgeous simplicity of attire; there was rather
something subtly in keeping with the house itself.

The Prince turned to speak to the Ambassador, and the little procession stopped.

Edmund was more artistic in taste than in temperament, and he was not imaginative. But he could
not enjoy the full satisfaction of his fastidious tastes to-night, nor had he his usual facility
for speech. He could not bring himself to utter one word to Molly. They stood for that moment
close together, looking at each other in a silence that was electric. No wonder that Molly
thought his incapacity to speak a wonderful thing; others, too, noticed it.

"What a bearing that girl has! What movement!" cried the Ambassador, as, after greeting the
first few couples who passed him, he drew Grosse to a corner and looked at him curiously. But
Edmund seemed moonstruck. Then, in a perfunctory voice, he said slowly.

"What is the writing in that picture?"

"Mene Thekel Phares," said his friend. A Maron hunting it was not at, dude. I've probably learned Traces of wild
and man in the jungle, as between arable fields and in the most confused Road network above and
below the earth to pursue for the purpose. You, or your name, or Rather, a brandy or liqueur
of your name I felt out in the newspapers, - the> Kristeller < I went to, and as I am for, and you'll
blame me, certainly, if I in try out the course of the morning drink at the source wish. It
was not necessary that your doctor on my> Kristeller <drew the attention. "

The old Philip had constantly throughout this debate the most enjoyable Rubbed his hands, now
he sprang to his feet, patted his friend on the shoulder and said:

"So has <my> Kristeller brought up my lane!

Oh, dear August - in, I think made there really is a beneficial invention to have, I will
immediately - "

"After," said the colonel Agonista. "See how beautifully the sun shines, as the blue Heaven! Philip,
now you show me all things being in your home each: Stove and yard
- oh, what a pity that you can show me not even his wife and children
and grandchildren! - And a garden, the pharmacy, the laboratory, the
material chamber, kitchen and cellar, barn and Cattle - everything
interests me!

"

As master of the house again sat next to his guest, so he knocked
him in the knee:

"Oh, Augustin, how friendly it is from you!

What a joy you make me there. Should we go straight? "

"Certainly," said the Colonel Dom Agostin Agonista jumped up, pressed the tobacco into the
pipe firm and took the arm of his friend.

Both men took their course, through the house and yard by yard and stables, and it was both a curiosity
and a pleasure, as intelligent and knowledgeable man of war to talk
about anything knew, and - just as he looked at every thing.

The delighted landlord spoke to him several times his astonishment thereat, but Dom laughed Agostin
and said:

»Drivers Do you even like me over there for a generation among the people and nations, the monkeys
and other beasts included.

That is, of course, as a house plant and From deliberative and practical
man, and then see if you are not also the orders the old home you
awaken in the mind and increase daily happy with new experiences will.

When I made my fate to an adventurer, Philip, I am a become quite solid. That I will marry soon,
I think you already yesterday have communicated to evening. "

"If it really was kidding, Augustin -"

"My bitter earnest. Your splints to take it all a joke, I have the mind. Actually, I had to make
that bad and should not now understand why I do not immediately for more information about your
smile is, - this doctor - Dr. Hanff seemed I consider even the shoulders in the air. Now,
we push all that on the excellent Punch your sister, - but I repeat to you, I'm head over
ears and the image of my beloved wear in a locket with the vest on her bosom. You shall see
the portrait, and your sister's will later see, and then I want your opinion Listen quietly. It
is a Prachtweib and not without assets; Lady Julia Fuentalacunas, - Not true, a very well-sounding
name? It came as a young Julchen fire in Szczecin to Rio, and married Mr. Fuentalacunas the
customs office. You know, dear friend, Rock the emperor is indeed a very flattering and honorable
garb, but if you like the first Youth behind him, one begins to whistle
on the honor and pleasure to the Lord's service preferable.

I'm going to buy a hacienda and hope as a wealthy family, my father to decide days in peace
in the circle of my family.

You - you and Miss Dorette - is of course, to the family, and we will lead an excellent life
together. "

"How" - - the pharmacists asked the wild man, "Mr Philip Kristeller,
and saw his Guest with the greatest of eyes.

"Like I say it," said the Brazilian imperial gendarmerie colonel,
the astonished View of his old friend not in the least paying attention,
but, in the middle standing in the courtyard, all around the surrounding
buildings looking up.

It seemed to him again, in fact, bitter Seriously to be what he said.

"I hope to talk to your sister without any trouble," he added, as in passing.

The pharmacist laughed the Colonel laughed, but not entirely, but skirted the two Milk cows
in the stable with a critical eye, she knocked on the course and commented:

"A few years ago I was in Fray Bentos and watched the local meat extract Institute at. Great!
- Do you drive in front of a bull in the retort and deliver it you
focus on ten minutes in a box that you put in your pocket - would
the ocean is not, to him can call her your surprise, you knew nowhere
to go so, Philipp.

And two weeks ago I was with Liebig in Munich - approximately the same smell and fragrance As with
you, just a bit of metal, - Kristeller, as we can today also use
- I will deliver the cattle, and you ran me only the extract, - Philip,
I give you my word of honor in three years, we make the Lords a Fray
Bentos Competition they will move to tears.

"

"Oh, Augustin, what a wonderful sense of humor you have brought over from your new country with!"
said the pharmacist, "but -"

? "Humor," the colonel asked, very seriously, and added, almost shouting: "Pay! Pay! The most
detailed and uncontroversial calculations: Here! - Because "

He had already pulled out his wallet and read the in flight a few
friends in the That great detail her on meat extract-factory-use reference
number series.

Mr. Philipp Kristeller rubbed in increasing the solidification front:

The
nurse - the nurse should hear it, "he murmured, and smiled now and
the Gendarmerie colonel finally once again and said:

"I will of course
have the lunch at your good sister with our plans known and make it
look to win for them.

I am sure they will not stiff-wonder as you stand there and just praise my humor. "

"O thou great God," sighed Mr. Philipp.

The goat, which in addition to the two cows in the barn under the special care of Miss Dorette
Crystals Ellers wohlbehagliches a life lived, went on the Colonel, without further comment,
however, he said, shaking his head in the hen:

"This here reminds me always strange animals vividly of my late mother."

He had kept the letter in upper hand and made from time to time some notes. Fast two hours brought the
two men on their inspection tour, and when she in the house returned,
they found the chief medical officer in the pharmacy waiting for them
and a glass from the famous Kristeller'schen Magenliqueur before him
on the table.

With his usual bonhomie, the doctor greeted the two men entering. It shook be honest hands
in a circle and asked each other most cordially by the Sleep and
the other being.

"What we are writing for a week because today really," asked the colonel,
his wallet still in the hand-supporting.

"That will be the barber, who since hinrennt just can say the best," laughed the Doctor Hanff,
"the farmers plow goes over the week stubble, it's Saturday -"

"And tomorrow I go for the first time since a generation the German service again, "cried the
Colonel Dom Agostin Agonista delighted. "Day after tomorrow I'm leaving."

»August? - Augustine cried frightened Mr Philip Kristeller.

"Colonel?" Said astonished Miss Dorette Kristeller.

But the chief medical officer, vigorously pushing back his glass, exclaimed:

"Under all circumstances, impossible, Colonel, the forester Ulebeule
met me, he is a Invitation to dinner on the Monday on the way; on
Tuesday I request the honor; On Wednesday, the series comes to the
pastor, and on Thursday - but because we want the other Men do not
prejudge in any event, we can not, under any circumstances continue
as quickly, Colonel.

Who is a rare bird as it has in the hands, which keeps him as long
as possible proof.

Give me another <a> Kristeller, Kristeller dear, and take one too, my dear Colonel, you still
seem to have no right idea of ​​what good and pleasant Things the
local planetary body produces.

"

CHAPTER XIII.

The forester, who was at that moment in the door, heard what was discussed, and addressed immediately
with the others vigorously and urgently to the old, brave, South
Africa A warrior.

This, however, defended only by silent gestures, at the same time
that he proffered Spitz Kristeller'schen glass with the bitters to
the light and entertaining durchäugelnd.

Now he put the cup to his lips - drank - was one - tried again with a deeper devotion - poured
the rest down with a certain wild fervor throat - Immediately handed the glass back to new filling
of the pot-bellied green bottle and exclaimed:

"Upon my soul, that's really finally - finally a G etr ä nk!"

"Does not it?" The forester and the doctor asked seriously, while the pharmacist "to the wild
Man, "the nurse smiled bashfully-happy over his shoulder.

"By the gods, that's a beverage, Philip! And you are truly the inventor of it? And you have the
recipe to under lock and key? - And you still sitting here in this lost corner and turn to
the doctor because his pills and stir him up his concoctions? - Miss Kristeller, I would ask immediately
after dinner, a private conversation!

Gentlemen, this changes the situation, perhaps, rather forester, in the course of the afternoon, I
will allow me to give you message, I can accept your invitation or not. "

! Bravo called "the chief medical officer and the forester, the chemist said:

"You stay so without condition, love, and it was also not necessary to us a to hunt such terror
in the ranks. It was not friendly and brotherly, Augustin. "

"Please have a> Kristeller, '" said the colonel. "Philip, for your health! I assure you, I love
you had, but now the respect comes to love, - my Men had, you have
these thirty years by a great man in your midst, without to know.

Phil, your brandy is wonderful, but as for my departure, so like us always with a gun over on
the march, and you just have to take a wife and a bourgeois Business drivers to learn to sit still.
At the high gods, this one is perhaps more profitable than Fray Bentos! Kristeller, we are over
the fiery seventh heaven bring down a flask on the ground. Miss Dorette, we are the sun and remove
the flash on bottles and put our prices accordingly. Kristeller and Agonista - Sao Paradiso -
Province of Minas Geraes, Empire of Brazil! This drink under the Poor we get through with all
nations around the globe. We get through, madam, and as I said, after dinner, I ask myself a
comfortable Plauderviertelstündchen in the back room, Lady Dorothea.

"

They laughed, not all, only the young lady. What anbetraf the laughter of the inventive master of
the house, so did the one absolutely bewildered and helpless feeling.

A man, however, of a life behind him, as the Colonel Agonista allowed to see, in fact, the earth
with other eyes and engage in other hands than the household community and family friends
of the pharmacy "A wild man," and could also, without being held accountable for the others
require very naive to imagine that one to its position. The Colonel Dom Agostin Agonista could
really demonstrate its firm unshakable resolve, once again, and that after a generation, the
fortune and fate of his friend Philip Kristeller to turn to the other side, without in any
objections and remonstrances listen.

Because now filled the hall with all sorts of customers, they accompanied the gallant old soldier
but the forester and the doctor on their way back to the village. He walked between them, each holding
under his arm, and who met the three, stood still and watched them, who had to admit that each
of the three was in its way "good.

This, however, kept the conversation the men at the old Philip and his "Kristeller", and was even
on this short paths Brazilian police colonel still some very useful notes on the pharmacy "to wild
man "and came cheerful whistling and the pure, fresh autumn air einschlürfend comforting back
- just in time for lunch.

We dined, we held siesta - the Colonel his own, this time in the seat of honor in his colorful images
Back room.

Point three clock he was refreshed again in the pharmacy to take even
a "Kristeller."

He knew the way to the kitchen quite well and did not need a guide on it.

"Miss Dorette," he said, "now would be a fitting time available. I have just good Phil passed on
his material chamber, and both of us, dear lady, have below the kingdom
alone.

Children, children, I am childish, as family-friendly to be with
you together!

And we remain a family - not true, we remain a Family? - It's gorgeous!

Out there, the German autumn sky here within the German Furnace heat
and - the love Brazil as the land of promise in the distance!

Lady, I allow me to offer my arm. "

He really led the old, anxious over his shoulder looking lady in her own Office, the House chamber,
honor, and remained with her for a good half an hour inside and that in most urgent negotiations
and while the brother to his excitement at least some masters to
remain in his chamber material bags on all herbs and abtürmte and
all Drawers raised and zuschob.

Half an hour can even the most phlegmatic people may seem very long; this is a known truth must
be repeated here, but nevertheless. The pharmacist "A wild man," was published, the short time
is quite long, however, was Miss Dorette he passed very rapidly.

Already opened the door the colonel politely her cleaning her room, and - let it out. He remained
in it! - She held the door-posts as affected by a scam - they had make the brave soldier, a curtsey
do, but she had not been possible. While But she leaned out from the wall and see how suddenly went
blind eye to the target was inside the Colonel went whistling softly to the window and had opened
it and to bargain down.

As he lay heavy on the elbows, let out a heavy sigh and looked down the road along the right
and left back.

The young lady put out both hands to his temples, and also met with a sigh , and moaned about this:

"Good
God, just as I had imagined! oh, dear God, my poor, poor brother! "

From his window, "cried the colonel at a passing village boys:

"Hey,
miin Jung ', you know the Lord Forester Ulebeule and do you know where
he lives?"

"Well?" Asked the boy to the wall up, indignant if the
naivete of the question.

"Well, my son. I'll wait here with five
pennies in his hand on you. Run 'again to the Lord Forester ordered
and 'a nice greeting from the strange man in the pharmacy, and it
would Pharmacists are the Lord and the Lord a strange pleasure on
Monday in which Mr Forster to eat. "

The boy ran from the mountains
and looked back in the race several times whether the white-headed
Man with the brown face in the window really think word and with the
necessary fee remain present. Down in the back room, the seat of honor
of the Brazilian Supreme sat Miss Dorette Kristeller supported, elbows
on the table and the face on the hands and moaned softly

"My brother,
my poor brother!"

CHAPTER XIV.

The next day was Sunday, a German
village Sunday. The bell rang for church, and Schonlank his sermon,
the pastor had finished and ready. With the Hymns of his friend Philip
under his arm, and worthy of the friend's sister was also a leader
of the Brazilian Colonel Dom Agostin Agostina to church and while
in uniform. He had his coat and bag small suitcases unpacked and his
appearance be fully decorated daily. He wore all his medals and was
not only martial, but really magnificent and elegant , and the devotion
of the village completely disturbed by his appearance. He sang well.
The pastor in the sacristy he heard about the organ, the cantor and
the congregation away, - sonorous bass was so shaken by no means the
curvature of the small church. After the Church had the exotic warriors,
again Miss Dorette Kristeller on arms leader, so to say the parade
of the whole community to take. It formed trellis on his way, and
good-natured smile, and on and on to his cap collectively, the colonel
walked between the Bauer faces by hedge marvel. But he could
not be equally angry at the same time with Miss Dexter, with his own authorities, with Edmund
Grosse, and with circumstances. One injury alone might have been different, but taken together
they suggested a plot and intention. Whose plot? Whose intention?

And the answer was thundered and yet whispered through his consciousness. Is was God's plot,
God's Will, God's demand, that he should do the impossible and behave like a saint!

Mark had said easily enough in the first noble instinct of bearing his blow well: "We are God's
slaves." But that first light had gradually been obscured. He had not felt then that the impossible
was demanded of him. He had come to feel it, and to feel it without remembering that man's
helplessness was God's opportunity. Had he forgotten, erased from the tablets of his mind and
heart, all he had loved and trusted most? Now all was terribly clear. Augustine, in a decadent,
delicate age, had not minced matters, and had insisted that all hope must be placed in Him
Who would not spare the scourge. "Oftentimes," he had cried, "does our Tamer bring forth His
scourge too." Mark took down the old, worn book.

"In Him let us place our hope, and until we are tamed and tamed thoroughly--that is, are perfected--let
us bear our Tamer.... Whereas, when thou art tamed, God reserveth for thee an inheritance which
is God Himself.... For God will then be all in all; neither will there be any unhappiness to
exercise us, but happiness alone to feed us.... What multiplicity of things soever thou seekest
here, He alone will be Himself all these things to thee.

"Unto this hope is man tamed, and shall his Tamer then be deemed intolerable? Unto this hope
is man tamed, and shall he murmur against his beneficient Tamer, if He chance to use the scourge?...

"Whether, therefore, Thou dealest softly with us that we be not wearied in the way, or chastisest
us that we wander not from the way, Thou art become our refuge, O Lord."

As Mark read, the pain of too great light was softened to him. What had been hard, white light,
glowed more rosy until it flushed his horizon with full glory.

It wanted a small space in time, but a mighty change in the spirit, before Mark read Edmund's
letter with a keen wish to enter into its full meaning, and judge it wisely. Having come to
himself, he was, as ever, ready to give that self away. He was full of a strange energy; he
smiled to feel that the strokes of the lash were unfelt, while consciousness was lost in love.
This was God's anæsthetic. But it thrilled the soul with vitality, and in no sense but the
absence of pain did it suspend the faculties. He had no doubt, no hesitation, as to what he
must do. He would go to Molly, he must see her at once, but not a word should pass his lips
of what Edmund wanted him to say. Not a moment must be lost. Who might not betray her danger
and destroy her opportunity? Molly must be brought to do this thing of herself without any
admixture of fear, without any aim or object but to sacrifice all for what was right. He yearned
with utter simplicity that this might be her way out. Let her do it for herself. Let her do
it of herself, thought Mark--not because she is afraid, not because her vast possessions appear
the least insecure. And the action would be far more noble just because, at the moment of renunciation,
the world would, for the first time, suspect her guilt. To Mark it seemed now the crowning
touch of mercy that the criminal should be allowed to drink deep of the chalice. "Her own affair"--that
was what the dying mother had said of the unfortunate child to whom she offered so gross a
temptation.

And in the depths of his mind there was the conviction that it was a particular truth as to
this individual soul, that not only would the heroic be the only antagonist to the base, but
that some such moral revolution alone could be the beginning of cleansing of what had become
foul, and the driving out of the noxious and the vile.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

NO SHADOW OF A CLOUD

It was in the evening, and Edmund was waiting in Rose's drawing-room until she should come
back from a meeting of one of her charitable committees.

He was walking up and down the room with a face at once very grave and very alert. Even his
carriage during the last few weeks had seemed to Rose to have gained in firmness and dignity,
and perhaps she was right. Nor had she failed to notice that one or two small, straight pieces
of grey hair could now be seen near the temples. He looked a little older, a little more brisk,
a little more firm, and distinctly more cheerful since his reverses. It is no paradox to speak
of cheerfulness in sorrow, or to say that the whole nature may be happier in grief than in
the days of apparent pleasure. It is not only in those who have acquired deep religious peace
that this may be true, for even in gaining energy and a balance in natural action, there may
be happiness amidst pain.

Rose came in without seeing that anyone was in the room, and gave a start when she saw the
tall figure by the window. The evening light showed him a little grey, a little worn in appearance,
a little more openly kindly in the dark eyes. Something that she had fancied dim and clouded
lately--only once or twice, not always--now shone in his face with its full brightness.

"Has anything happened, Edmund? Have you come to tell me anything?"

He came across the room to her and took her hand in silence, and then said:

"You look tired. Have you had tea?"

"Oh, never mind tea," she answered. "Do tell me! Seriously, something has happened?"

"It is nothing of any consequence--nothing that need disturb you in the least. It is only about
my own stupid affairs, and, on the whole, it is very good news. I have just come from the Foreign
Office, and they have told me there that I am to have that job in India, and that the sooner
I am ready to start the better."

As he spoke he turned from her with a sudden, quick hurt in his heart. It was, after all, only
of great importance to himself. He knew she would be kindly glad that he had got the post he
wanted. Had she not always urged him to some real work? Had she not pressed him again and again
during the last four years, consciously and unconsciously, to bring out all his talents and
to do a man's work in a man's way? So she would be simply glad, and she would wave him "God
speed," and would, no doubt, pray for him at those innumerable services she attended, and write
to him long, gentle, feminine letters full of details about all sorts of matters, good or indifferent,
and she would ask about his health and press him to take care of himself and tell him of any
word that was spoken kindly of him here in England. And she would somehow manage to know, or
think she knew, that he was doing great things in the East. And so, no doubt, in the two years
in which he was away there would be no apparent break in this very dear intimacy. But what,
in reality, would he know of her inmost feelings, of her loneliness, of her sufferings, of
any repentance that might come to her, any softening towards himself? He seemed to see all
of the two years that were to come in a flash as he stood silent on one side of the neglected
tea-table, and Rose stood silent, turning away from him on the other.

When he raised his eyes, he almost felt a surprise that the figure, a little turned away from
him, was not dressed in a plain, white frock, and that the shadows and the flickering sunlight
making its way through the mulberry leaves were not still upon her; for that was how, through
life and in eternity, Rose would be present in the mind of her lover.

Time had gone; it seemed now as nothing. Whatever changes had come between, he felt as if he
saw in the averted face that same expression of sorrowful denial and gentle resistance that
had baffled him now for over twelve years. It was still that his soul asked something of this
other purer, gentler, more unworldly, more loving soul, which she, with all her beneficence
would not give him. He did no think of the impracticability of any question of marriage; he
did not think in any definite sense of their relations as man and woman. At other times he
had known so frequently just the overpowering wish for the possession of the woman he loved
best, but now she stood to him as the history of his moral existence here below, and he felt
as if, in missing her, he should miss the object and crown of his life.

At last silence became intolerable. He moved as though he wanted to speak and could not, and
then he said huskily, almost gruffly:

"It is not 'good-bye' to-day, of course," and then he laughed at the feebleness of his own words.

Rose turned to him at that, and he was not really surprised to see that the tears were flowing
rapidly over her cheeks--tears so large that they splashed like big raindrops on the white
hands which were clasped as they hung before her. But that made it no easier. He thought very
little of those tears; he felt even a little bitter at their apparent bitterness. He hardened
at the sight of those tears; they made him feel that he could leave her with more dignity,
more firmness in his own mind, than he had ever thought would be possible.

"Vous pleurez et vous êtes roi?" He hardly knew that he had muttered the words as he so often
muttered a quotation to himself. But Rose did not hear them. She was too preoccupied with her
own thoughts and feelings to notice him closely. Ah! if she had but known before what it would
be to lose him! She was horrified as she felt her self-control failing her, and an enormous
agony entering into possession of all her faculties. She was so startled, so amazed at this
revelation of herself. If she had felt less, she would have thought more for him. She did not
think for a moment what that silent standing by her side meant for him. She knew at last the
selfishness of passion. She wanted him as she had never wanted anyone or anything before. She
could only think of the craving of her own heart, the extraordinary trouble that possessed
it. Those who have had a passing acquaintance with love, those who have sown brief passages
of love thoughts over their early youth, can form no notion of what that first surrender meant
to Rose. "Too late!" cried the tyrant love, the only tyrant that can carry conviction by its
mere fiat to the innermost recesses of a nature. "Too late!--it might have been, but not now;
it is all your own doing; you made him suffer once; you are the only one to suffer now. You
are crying now the easy tears of a child, but there are years and years before you when the
tears will not come, call for them as you may; they cannot go on coming from a broken heart.
They flow away out of the fissures, and then the dryness and barrenness of daily misery will
not let them come again."

"He never cared as I do," thought Rose; "he does not know what it is!"

She called her persecutor "it"; she shrank from its name even now with an unutterable embarrassment.
When she did turn to Edmund it was more as if to confide to him what she was suffering from
someone else; it was so habitual to her to turn to him. What was the use? what was the use?
How could she use him against himself? No, no; she must, she must control herself. She must
not tell him; she must let him go quite quietly now; she must make no appeal to the past; he
was too generous--she did not want his generosity. She put her hands to her forehead and pushed
the hair backwards.

"I'm not well, I think," she said; "the room at the meeting was stuffy. I--I didn't quite understand
what you said--I'm glad."

She sank on to a chair, and then got up again.

"I'm glad you've got what you wanted, but I'm startled--no, I mean I'm not quite well. I don't
think I can talk to-day--I don't understand--I----"

She stood almost with her back to him then.

He was so amazed at her words that he could not speak at all. This was not sweetness, kindness,
pity; this was something else, something different; it was almost a shock!

"I am so silly," she said, with a most absurd attempt at a natural voice, "I think I must----"
Her figure swayed a little.

Edmund watched her with utter amazement. All his knowledge of women was at fault, and that
child in the white frock--where was she? Where was that sense of his soul's history and its
failure, its mystic tragedy, just now? Gone, quite gone, for he knew now that that long tragedy
was ended. But Rose did not know it.

He moved, half consciously, a few feet towards the door.

"Rose," he said, in a very low voice, "if it has come at last, don't deny it! I have waited
patiently, God knows! but I don't want it now unless it is true. For Heaven's sake do nothing
in mere pity!"

"But it has come, Edmund; it has come!" she interrupted him, so quickly that he had barely
time to reach her before she came to him.

And yet it had been many years in coming--so many years that he could hardly believe it now;
could hardly believe that the white hands he had watched so often trembled with delight as
they caressed him; could hardly believe that the fair face was radiant with joy when he, Edmund,
ventured to kiss her; could hardly believe that it was of her own wish and will that she leant
against him now!

"I ought not to have said it was the stuffy room, ought I?"

It was the sweetest, youngest laugh she had ever given. Then she looked up at the ceiling where
the sun flickered a little.

"Edmund, it is better than if I had known under the mulberry tree. Tell me you forgive me all
I have done wrong. I could not," she gasped a little, "have loved you then as I do now, because
I had known no sorrow then."

And Edmund told her that she was forgiven. But one sin she confessed gave him, I fear, unmixed
delight; she was so dreadfully afraid that she had lately been a little jealous!

Strange--very strange and unfathomable--is the heart of man. It did not even occur to him as
the wildest scruple to be at all afraid that he had been lately a little, ever so little, less
occupied with the thought of her. No shadow of a cloud rested on the great output of a strong
man's deep affection.

CHAPTER XXXIX

"WITHOUT CONDITION OR COMPROMISE"

It was on the same evening that Mark succeeded in seeing Molly. He had failed the day before,
but at the second attempt he succeeded.

It was the first time he had entered Westmoreland House, and he had never, even in the autumn
weeks when Miss Dexter had been most cordial to him, tried to see her except by her own invitation.
Altogether the position now was as embarrassing as it is possible to conceive. He had been
her confidant as to a crime for which the law sees no kind of palliative, no possible grounds
for mercy. As he greeted her it wanted little imaginative power to feel the dramatic elements
in the picture. Molly was standing in the middle of the great drawing-room dressed in something
very white and very beautiful. At any other moment he must have been impressed by the subdued
splendour of the room, and the grace and youth of the dominating figure in the midst. Mark
was too absorbed to-day in the spiritual drama which he must now force to its conclusion to
realise that he had also come to threaten the destruction of Molly's material world and all
the glory thereof. He had, too, so far forgotten himself, that the mischief Molly had wrought
against him had faded into the background of his consciousness. His absorbing anxiety lay in
the extreme difficulty of his task. It would need an angel from Heaven, gifted too with great
knowledge of human nature, to accomplish what he meant to attempt. First he would throw everything
into the desperate endeavour to make her give up the will simply and entirely from the highest
motives. But what possibility was there of success? Why should he hope that, just because he
called and asked her for it, she would give up all that for which she had sold her soul? He
could not feel that he was a prophet sent by God from whose lips would fall such inspired words
that the iron frost would thaw and the great depths of her nature be broken up. In fact, he
felt singularly uninspired, and very much embarrassed. And when he had tried the impossible
(he said to himself), and had given her the last chance of going back on this ugly fraud from
nobler motives than that of fear, and had failed--he must then enter on the next stage and
must merge the priest's office in that of the ambassador. He must bring home to her that what
she clung to was already lost, and that nothing but shame and disgrace lay before her. He had
the case, as presented by Sir Edmund's letter in all its convicting simplicity, clearly in
his mind--quite as clearly as the facts of Molly's own confession to himself. It would not
be difficult to crush the criminal, to make her see the hopeless horror of the trial that must
follow unless she consented to a compromise. But it was the completeness of her defeat that
he dreaded the most; it was for that last stage of his plan that he was gathering unconsciously
all his nerve-power together. He seemed to hear with ominous distinctness her words at their
last meeting: "If I can't go through with it (which is quite possible) I shall throw up the
sponge and get out of this world as soon as I can." That had been spoken without any sort of
fear of detection, without the least suspicion that she would have no choice in the matter
of giving up her ill-gotten wealth. What he dreaded unutterably was the despair that must overpower
her as he developed the long chain of evidence against her. As he came into her presence, overwhelmed
with these thoughts, he was also anxiously recalling two mental notes. He must make her clearly
understand that he had not betrayed her by one word or hint to Sir Edmund Grosse or any living
human being; and secondly, he thought it very important to impress upon her that Sir Edmund
and Lady Rose were of opinion that Larrone had suppressed the will or that Molly had never
opened the box which contained it--were, in fact, of any or every opinion except that Molly
was guilty of crime. For the rest he could, at this eleventh hour, hardly see anything clearly,
and as he shook hands with Miss Dexter an unutterable longing to escape came over him. Molly's
greeting was haughty--almost rude--but that seemed to him natural and inevitable. He made some
comment on a political event which she did not pretend to answer, and then as if speech were
almost impossible, he actually murmured that the weather was very hot.

Then he became silent and remained so. For quite a minute neither spoke.

Molly was not naturally silent, naturally restrained. She moved uneasily about the room; she
lit a cigarette, and threw it away again. At last she stood in front of him.

"What made you come to-day?" she asked.

Her large restless eyes looked full of anger as she spoke.

"I came to-day partly because I am going away very soon, so I thought that it might be----"
He hesitated.

"But where are you going?" Molly asked abruptly.

"I am to take a chaplaincy at Lord Lofton's."

"And your preaching?" cried Molly in astonishment.

"Is not wanted," said Mark.

"And your poor?"

"Can get on without me."

"You are to be buried in the country?" she cried in indignation; "you are to leave all the
people you are helping? But what a horrible shame! What,"--she suddenly turned away as a thought
struck her--"what can be the reason?"

"It seems," he said very quietly, "that I have been foolish; people are talking, things are
said against me, and things should not be said against a priest. But I did not come here to
talk about myself. I came here----" He paused.

Molly sat down close to the empty fireplace, and was bending over it, her very thin figure
curiously twisted, and one foot twitching nervously.

"You are going away," she said suddenly, "and it is my doing. I did not know I was doing that;
it felt as if hitting at you were the only way to defend myself. Good God! I shall have a lot
to answer for!"

She did not turn round; she crouched lower on the low chair and shuddered.

"And you," she went on in a low voice, "you want to save my soul! I have always been afraid
you would get the best of it, and now I have destroyed your life's work. Did you know it was
I who was talking against you?"

"I did."

"And that I have said everything I dared to say against you ever since I told you my secret?"

"Yes; more or less I knew."

"Why didn't you tell your authorities the truth long ago?"

"How could I?"

Molly made no answer. She got up in silence and took a key from her pocket and moved toward
a small bureau between the windows. She unlocked the lower drawer and took out a packet of
papers, and in the middle of this packet was an envelope in which lay the key of the room upstairs.
Her movements were slow but unhesitating, and when she left the room Mark had not the slightest
idea of what she would do. If he had seen her face as she slowly mounted the great well staircase
he might have understood.

How simple it all was. She reached the top of the many steps with little loss of breath; she
turned to the right into the dark passage that led to her own room, passed her own door, and
put the key in the lock of the one next to it. She knew so exactly which box she sought, though
she had never seen it since the day when Dr. Larrone brought it to her. Although she had actually
come in the cab that brought the small boxes from the flat, she had succeeded in not recognising
that one among the number heaped up together. She knew exactly where it stood now, and how
many things had been piled above the boxes from the flat with seeming carelessness, but by
her orders.

The shutters were closed, but she could have found that box in inky darkness, and now a ray
from between the chinks fell upon it. She did not think now of how often she had told herself
that she did not know what the box was like. Now it seemed to have been the only box she had
ever known in her life. The cases on the top of it were heavy, and Molly had to strain herself
to move them, but she was very strong, and every reserve of muscular power was called out unconsciously
to meet her need. She did not know that her hands were covered with dust, and that blood was
breaking through a scratch over the right thumb made by a jagged nail.

When she came back into the drawing-room, Father Molyneux was sitting with his back towards
her, looking with unseeing eyes into the trees of the park. She moved towards him and held
out a long envelope.

"Take it away," she said, "If I have ruined your life, you have ruined mine."

She moved with uncertain steps to the chimney-piece, leant upon it, and, turning round, looked
wildly at the envelope in his hands.

"Why didn't you come for it before?" she asked him.

Mark could not answer. He was absolutely astonished at what had happened. He could hardly believe
that he held in his hand a thing of such momentous importance. He had nerved himself for a
great fight, but he had not known what he should say, how he should act, and then--amazing
fact--a few minutes after he came into the room, and without his having even asked for it,
the will was put into his hands! Nothing had been said of conditions or compromise; she only
asked the amazing question why he had not come for it before!

"You were right," she mused, "right to leave me alone. I wonder, do you remember the words
that have haunted me this summer?--Browning's words about the guilty man in the duel:

     'Let him live his life out,
     Life will try his nerves.'

It has tried my nerves unbearably; I could not go on, I have not the strength. I might have
had a glorious time if I had been a little stronger. As it is, it's not worth while."

It is impossible to convey the heavy dreariness of outlook conveyed by her voice and manner.
There seemed no higher moral quality in it all.

"Half a dozen times I have nearly sent for you. But"--she did not shudder now, or make the
restless movements he had noticed when he first came in: Molly had regained the stillness which
follows after storms--"as soon as you are gone I shall be longing to have it back again. Men
have done worse things than I have for thirty thousand a year! It won't be easy to be a pauper;
I think it would be easier to kill myself."

She was silent again, and Mark could not find one word that he was not afraid to say--one word
that might not quench the smoking flax.

"I had to give it to you without waiting to talk of the future, or I might not have given it
at all. But I should be glad if the case could be so arranged that my mother's name and my
own should not be dragged in the mud. It is only an appeal for mercy--nothing else." Her voice
trembled almost into silence.

"I think that is all safe," said Mark. "I think if you will leave it all in my hands I can
get better conditions for you than you suppose now. They will be only too glad."

"But I gave it to you without conditions." Her manner for the moment was that of a child seeking
reassurance.

"Thank God! you did," he cried, with an irrepressible burst of sympathy.

"It's not much for a thief to have done, is it? But now I should like to do it all properly.
Tell me; ought I to come away from here to-day, and give everything I have here to Lady Rose?
If I ought, I will!"

"No, certainly not," said Mark. "I have been asked to offer you liberal conditions if you would
agree to a compromise. I said they had come to quite the wrong person. No, no, don't think
I told them. They have fresh evidence that there was a will, and they believe they know that
important papers were brought to you by Dr. Larrone when your mother died."

"And you came to frighten me with this?" There was a touch of reproach in her tone.

"No, I came, hoping you would give me the paper, as you have done, without knowing this."

Evidently this news impressed Molly deeply, but she did not want to discuss it. Presently she said:

"I am glad you came in time before I was frightened. How you have wanted to make me save my
soul! You have helped me very much, but I cannot save my soul."

"But God can," said Mark.

"You see," she went on, "I never know what I am going to do--going to be--next. Imagine my
being a thief! It seems now almost incredible. And I don't know what may come next."

For a second she looked at him with wild terror in her eyes.

"Think how many years I have before me. How can I hope that I----?"

"You will do great, great good," said Mark, with emotion.

She shook her head.

"David committed a worse sin than yours."

Molly smiled, a little, incredulous, grey smile, for a moment.

"I may be good to-day. I may be full of peace and joy even to-night--but to-morrow? You told
me once that I should only know true joy if I had been humbled in the dust. I am low enough
now, but the comfort has not come yet, and, even if God comforts me, it won't last. I shall
still be I, and life is so long."

"You must trust Him--you must indeed. He will find a solution. You are exhausted now with the
victory you have gained. Rest now, and then do the good things you have done before. Trust
in the higher side of your character; God gave it to you. Believe me, He has called you to
great things."

As he spoke she covered her face with her hands, and a deep blush of shame rose from her neck
to her forehead, visible through the thin, white fingers.

"I suppose He will find a way out. As I can't understand how you have cared so much to save
my soul, I suppose I can understand His love still less. Must you go? You will pray for me,
I know."

She held out her hand with a look of generous appeal to his forgiveness.

"God bless you!" he said, with complete sympathy, and then he went away to seek an interview
with Sir Edmund Grosse.

Molly sank down on a low seat by the window. Then she went slowly upstairs, dragging her feet
a little from fatigue, and took out of the tin box the packet of very old letters. She burned
them one by one, with a match for each, kneeling in front of the empty fireplace in her bed-room.
They told the story of her mother's attempt to persuade Sir David of their marriage during
his illness in India. It was not a pretty story--one of deceit and intrigue. It should disappear
now.

Then she sat down in a deep chair in the window. She stayed very still, curled up against the
cushion behind her, her eyes fixed on the ground. She was hardly conscious of thought; she
was trying to recall things Mark had said, murmuring them over to herself. She was trying not
to sink into the depths of humiliation and despair. It was a blind clinging to a vague hope
for better things, with a certain torpor of all her faculties.

Then gradually things in the vague gloom became definite to her. "No," she said to them with
entreaty, "not to-night. My life is only just dead. I am tired by the shock--it was so sudden--only
let me rest till morning, and in the morning I will try to face it."

She had, it seemed, quite settled this point; the present and the future were to be left; a
pause was absolutely necessary. Then followed quickly the sharp pang of a fresh thought. It
was not in her power to make things pause. She could not make a truce by calling it a truce.
If she did not realise things now and act now herself, others would come upon the scene. Even
to-night Sir Edmund Grosse might know. She shivered. Perhaps he was being told now. It would
be insufferable to endure his kindness prompted by Rose's generous forgiveness. But ought she
to find anything unbearable? Was she going to revolt at the very outset? She was not trained
in spiritual matters, but it seemed to her that any revolt would betray a want of reality in
her reparation, and in this great change of feeling she wanted above all things to be real.
She tried to face what must come next. How could she hand over Westmoreland House? It could
not be done as quietly as she had handed that letter to Father Mark. The house had been bought
with the great lump sum Madame Danterre had accumulated in Florence--much of that money had
been put in the bank before Sir David died. Perhaps if they were ready to come to terms, as
Father Mark had said, an arrangement would be suggested in which Molly would not be expected
to refund what she had spent, and would have the possession of Westmoreland House and its contents.
The sale would realise enough to save her from actual want, and yet she would not be receiving
a pension from Lady Rose. Her mind got out of gear and flashed through these thoughts until,
unable to check it in any way, she burst into tears. She felt the self-deception of such plans
with physical pain. What was that money in the bank at Florence but blackmail gathered in during
Sir David's life? "Why cannot I be straight even now?" she whispered. She was still sitting
on the couch with one leg drawn up under her, gazing intently at the ground. No, the only money
she possessed was £2000 invested at 3½ per cent. "£70 a year--that is less than I have given
Carey, or the cook, or the butler."

The fact was that while her heart and soul had gone forward in dumb pain in utter darkness
with the single aim of undoing the sin done, the mind still lagged and reasoned. This is a
peculiar agony, and Molly had to drink of that agony.

Gradually and mercilessly her reason told her that an arrangement with Lady Rose, the appearance
of having the right of possession in Westmoreland House, the readiness of all concerned to
bury the story, and the possession of a fair income, would make it possible to live in her
own class quietly but, if tactfully, with a good repute. Then the thought of any kind of compromise
became intolerable to her, and she realised that it was a fancy picture, not a real temptation.

To pretend that Westmoreland House was her own she could not do, but what was the alternative?
Dragging poverty and shame, and with no opportunity for hiding what had passed, for living
it down. Even if she did the impossible to her pride and consented to receive a good allowance
from Lady Rose, it would not be at all the same in the world's view as the dignified income
that could be raised from Westmoreland House, and from her mother's jewels and furniture. Her
fingers unconsciously touched the pearls round her neck. Surely she need not speculate as to
how her mother obtained the magnificent jewels which she had worn up to the end? Then more
light came--hard and cold, but clear. If Molly had been innocent these things might have been
so, but Molly had committed a fraud on a great scale. It would be by the mercy of the injured
that she would be spared the rigours of the law. It was by the supreme mercy of God that she
had had the chance of making the sacrifice before it was forced from her. And could she shrink
from mere ordinary poverty, from a life such as the vast majority of men and women are living
on this earth? She did not really shrink in her will. It was only a mechanical movement of
thought from one point to another. Was it much punishment for what she had done to be very
poor? Would it not be better to be unclassed--to live among people who help each other much
because they have little to give? Would it not be the way to do what Father Mark had said she
should try to do--those good things she had done before? She could nurse, she could watch,
she was able to do with little sleep. She would be very humble with the sick and suffering
now. And it would not surely be wrong to go and find such a life far away from where she had
sinned? She began to wonder if she need stay and live through all the complications of the
coming days. Must it be the right thing to stay because it was the most unbearable? She thought
not. There are times when recklessness is the only safety. If she did not burn her ships now
she could not tell what temptations might come. But she would not let it be among her motives
that thus she would thereby escape unbearable pity from Lady Rose and the far sterner magnanimity
of Edmund Grosse. She would act simply; she would ask Rose a favour; she would ask her to provide
for Miss Carew.

Half consciously again her hands went to her throat. She unclasped the pearl necklace that
Edmund had seen on Madame Danterre's withered neck in the garden at Florence. She slipped off
four large rings, and then gathered up a few jewels that lay about. "One ought not to leave
valuables about," she thought, and she did not know that she added "after a death."

If Miss Carew had been in the room she would probably not have understood that anything special
was going on. Molly moved quietly about, collecting together on a little table by the cupboard,
rings, brooches, buckles, watches--anything of much value. Roveredo ai 26th Ottobre 1756th

The Waelsch comments I will translate
into German.

The German himself but little work I will faithfully deliver the way it flowed from the pen of
the learned the translator is. That I saw the title: = Notes on the specified witchcraft of
the Dead =, which Bring out the French have both an Italian magazine, is not retained, so happen
because I just wanted to follow in this play the German translator, the his work drew the
name = = vampirism.

The superstition of vampirism is Latin Magia Posthuma + +, or witchcraft of the Dead, so named. = =
But the vampires are dead people who sometimes later, sometimes more get up from the grave, appear
to humans, the blood sucking, ungestümm at the front door To bring knocking noise in the house, and
often even to cause death. On whose account then a lot of Imperial. royal. been sharp commands
in all dominions ausgeschicket, But this adventure of faith to set limits, like only among barbarians,
ignorant, or are found wicked. In all other countries, these adverse christcatholischen Views known.
Only in Hungary, Moravia and Silesia Pohlen it finds its followers. The Earlier this evil like
his reason well without doubt in the schismatic Greek Have simplicity, which believes that the
devil takes hold of the soul the body of man could.

Besides this short memory I know my readers nothing more to say than
that I agree with his Kindness and friendship respectfully recommending.

1.

          §.
             
                 From vampirism in general.
                               

When people perceive taken extraordinary effects, which may know cause
they do not, it derives them from a higher power than is that which
the people .

Have The story takes us through the centuries sheweth them their
mark.

Now it is certain, and bestättiget by Holy Scripture, that God with
his omnipotence either directly by his will or by the holy angels,
prophets, apostles and other Saints who have produced works of astonishing.

The

church's history can also transfer the disbelief that these wonders painting in the early days of Christianity
to countless happened. Learned and honest Protestants do not deny it even to that of the Indian
holy apostle by revelation have proven miracles his mission.

It is also certain that by the evil spirit of approval done God's work, which exceed natural
causes at all. As with our Saviour took place, as he was led into temptation in the wilderness,
alone is enough to to prove it. No Christian can deny that there were people that the evil Spirit
had possessed, thus the evil spirit of the human bodies have a power.

Just so it's also true that the devil by tumult, by vile delusions & C. the people have placed
in fear. Even the Protestants confess that the Heyden, anbethen in which the idols of India,
experienced all the cruelty of their cursed master, they serve, but
if you through salvation.

Sacrament of Baptism from serfdom be rid of the devil, and members of the church, all these
devilish delusions one End company, which has given rise to the conversion of many Heyden.

So here is the question: whether such extraordinary effects are possible? but the whole difficulty
rests out to prove that a certain accident really happened; and if he happened to turn out
that such an accident Sey, which the forces of natural causes went
beyond.

 Molly crept upstairs again with a foreign Bradshaw
in her hand. She looked out the train for the night boat to Dieppe. It left Charing Cross at
9.45. She had chosen Dieppe for the first stage of her journey--of which she knew not the further
direction--for two reasons. The first was because she knew that she ought to stay within reach
if it were necessary for her to do business with her own or Lady Rose's solicitors. She was
determined not to give any trouble she could avoid giving, in the business of handing over
that which had never belonged to her. At this time of year the journey to Dieppe would be no
difficulty, and she wanted to go there rather than to Boulogne or any other French port, because
she had the address of a very cheap and clean pension in which Miss Carew had passed some weeks
before coming to live with Molly in London. From that pension Molly could write the letters
she felt physically incapable of writing to-night. The only note she determined to write at
once was to Carey, asking her to remain at Westmoreland House and to tell the servants that
Miss Dexter had gone abroad. She told her that she had gone to the pension at Dieppe, but earnestly
insisted that she should not follow her. She begged her to do nothing before getting a letter
that she would write to her at once on arriving at Dieppe. She also asked her to keep the key
of the safe which she enclosed in her letter. Molly sealed the letter, and then felt some hesitation
as to when and how to give it to Miss Carew. She finally decided to send it by a messenger
boy from the station when it would be too late for Miss Carew to follow her, and when it would
still be in time to prevent any astonishment at her not returning home that night.

Miss Carew, thinking that Molly had gone out to dinner, came into her bed-room to look for
a book. The night was hot and oppressive, but no one had raised the blinds since the sun had
set, and the room was so dark that she did not at once see Molly. She started nervously, half
expecting one of Molly's impatient and rude exclamations on being disturbed, and, with an apology,
was going away when Molly said gently:

"Stay a minute, Carey; I'm not going to dine out to-night."

"But there is no dinner ordered, and I have just had supper. I am going out this evening to
see a friend."

"Never mind," Molly interrupted, "I can't eat anything. I am going out for a drive in a hansom
in the cool. Would you mind saying that I shall not want the motor?"

"My dear! are you not well?"

"Not very." And suddenly Miss Carew began to read the great change in her face. "It has none
of it been very good for me, Carey; you have been quite right. This house and all was a mistake.
You have never said it, but I have seen it in your eyes. 

When the women heard this talk about their maids, they hurried down the Kuechenschuerzen and the hoods
from something unclean and put themselves in government, "it is not certain," they said to
her family by running around everything to the visitors' room, the same time other use was
used to clean up, "there is nothing more certain than that the stranger now his nephew into
the world. The old fool was not so good for ten years, a to set foot in our house, but it was
forgiven him because of his nephew, who is a charming is to be human. "So they said, exhorting
their sons and daughters, rather mannered look, if the junta would strangers, to keep straight,
and also a better debate to operate as usual. And the wise women in town had advised not wrong; because
after the series went the old man around with his nephew, and him in the favor of the families
recommended.

It was everywhere very satisfied by the two strangers, and regretted it, not even earlier this
have made a pleasant acquaintance with. The old gentleman proved to be a dignified, very reasonable
man; although all he said, smiling a little, so you do not doubt was whether he was serious
or not, but he spoke about the weather, about the landscape, about the Sommervergnuegen on the
basement on the hill so clever and well thought out that anyone of them was charmed. But the nephew!
He charmed all, he won all hearts for themselves.

One could, indeed, what his appearance was concerned, his beautiful face, not name, and the lower
part, especially the jaw stood out too much, and the complexion was very brown; also made He sometimes
grimaces all sorts of strange, expressed his eyes and baring his teeth; but they found the cut of his
features uncommonly interesting. It could not move, Teres garment passed as its form. The
clothes he hung a little strange at the body, but he was all excellent, and he drove with great
vitality around the room, threw himself here on the sofa, then in a chair and stretched out his
legs, but what is a other young man would have highest absolute mean and unbecoming was, for
when the nephew Genialitaet. Some
men and more women get accustomed to coming daily into the chapel with its unceasing exposition,
and to love its silence and its atmosphere of rest and peace. Some never make themselves known;
others sometimes ask to see a nun, and thus gradually these recluses come to know memorable
secrets in human lives.

Molly had often been there in the weeks which she had afterwards called "my short fit of religious
emotion." She chose to go there to-night, to spend there her last hour in London.

The little chapel was fairly cool, and through a door very near the altar, open to the garden,
came the scent of mignonette on the air. Besides the motionless figures at the altar-rail there
was no one else in the chapel.

At eight o'clock two small brown figures came in and knelt bowed down in the middle of the
sanctuary. The two who had finished their watch rose and knelt by the side of those who relieved
guard. Then the four rose together, and the two newcomers took up their station, and the others
left them. And the incessant oblation of those lives went on. What a vast moral space lay between
their lives and Molly's! What a contrast!

Molly had had no home, but they had given up their homes for this. Molly had pined in vain
for human love; they had turned away from it. Molly had rebelled against all restraints; they
had chosen these bonds. Molly had sinned, against even the world's code, for love of the world;
and they had rejected even the best the world could give.

Was it unjust, unfair that the boon they asked for in return was given to them?

If, on the one hand, Molly had inherited evil tendencies and had fallen on evil circumstances,
does it seem strange that she could share in good as well as in evil?

It is easy to take scandal at Molly's inherited legacy of evil tendencies. It is easy to take
scandal at the facility of her forgiveness. The two stumbling-blocks are in reality the two
aspects of one truth, that no human being stands alone and that each gains or suffers with
or by his fellows.

The sinless women pleaded for sinners in a glorious human imitation of the Divine pleading.
And the exuberant vitality poured by the Conqueror of death into the human race, flowing strongly
through that tiny chapel, had carried the little, thin, stagnant stream of Molly's soul into
the great flood of grace that purifies by sorrow and by love.

Molly knelt in one of the back benches with her eyes fixed on the monstrance, in a very agony
of sorrow and self-abasement. I would not if I could analyse that penitence. Happily as life
goes on we shrink more, not less, from raising even the most reverent gaze on the secret places
of the soul. We do not know in what form, if in any form at all, and not rather, in a light
without words, the Divine Peace reached her. Was it, "Go in peace, thy sins are forgiven thee?"
Or was it perhaps, "This day shalt thou be with Me in Paradise?" We cannot tell. Only the lay-sister
who saw Molly go out with the little black bag in her hand said afterwards that the lady had
seemed happy.

THE SOCIALIST

BY GUY THORNE

Author of

"WHEN IT WAS DARK," "A LOST CAUSE," ETC.

"A story that leads one on by its boldness, its vigours, its interesting realism of both ducal
splendour and evil squalor, and by the individual interests it attaches to social phases and
problems. The Socialist contains plenty of dramatic description and intensely studied character
to remind one of When it Was Dark and other well staged and effectively managed story-dramas
from the same busy and clever pen."--The Dundee Advertiser.

"A work of absorbing interest dealing with one of the burning questions of the day in a manner
alike entertaining and instructive. Mr. Thorne has taken considerable pains to explain the
real meaning of Socialism as understood and taught by leaders of what may be styled the higher
Social movement. We congratulate the author on having produced a first-class novel full of
feeling and character, and with an eminently useful mission."--The Irish Independent.

Crown 8vo. Fixed price, $1.35 net

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

NEW YORK             LONDON

"A story that warms every reader's heart and makes him regret that he has reached the end."

Old Rose and Silver

By MYRTLE REED

Author of "A Spinner in the Sun," "The Master's Violin," etc.

NOT a "problem," "detective," or a "character study" story. It does not contain a morbid line.
Just a charming, pure, altogether wholesome love story, full of delicate touches of fancy and
humor. A book that leaves a pleasant taste in the memory, and one that people will find most
appropriate as a dainty gift.

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

NEW YORK             LONDON

"Bound to be one of the most popular novels of the year"

THE WIVING OF LANCE CLEAVERAGE

BY ALICE MACGOWAN

Author of "JUDITH OF THE CUMBERLANDS," "RETURN," "LAST WORD," ETC.

By its stirring dramatic appeal, its varied interest, its skilful artistry, Miss MacGowan's
new Tennessee mountain story marks a long step in advance of her earlier novels. For he saw but very torn and poor from, and who
may think that this was the wise Mustapha? "" And wonderful! Was not it Here is where we let
our wishes be loud? "said the clerk." Then one of them wanted to To travel to the other singing
and dancing, good company and have the third I - Stories read and hear, and not all our wishes
come true? Can not I read all the books of Sheikh and buy what I want? "


FRATERNITY

BY JOHN GALSWORTHY

Author of "THE MAN OF PROPERTY," "VILLA RUBEIN," ETC.

"The foundation of Mr. Galsworthy's talent, it seems to me, lies in a remarkable power of ironic
insight combined with an extremely keen and faithful eye for all the phenomena, on the surface
of the life he observes. These are the purveyors of his imagination, whose servant is a style
clear, direct, sane, illumined by a perfectly unaffected sincerity. The organist struck the bar and waved to his nephew, to begin. This
looked through his big glasses glasses in the music and joined horrible, wretched Sounds coming from.
The organist shouted to him: "Two sounds deeper, ester value, C you have to sing, C! "
 Its sustained
harmony is never interrupted by those bursts of cymbals and fifes which some deaf people acclaim
for brilliance. Mr. Galsworthy will never be found futile by anyone and never uninteresting
by the most exacting."

MR. JOSEPH CONRAD in The Outlook.

Crown 8vo. Fixed price, $1.35 net. (By mail $1.50)

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

NEW YORK             LONDON