Then again, I had reconciled Garry to Berna. When I told him of a certain secret I was hugging
to my breast he would capitulate entirely. How happy we would all be! I would buy a small estate
near home, and we would settle down. But first we would spend a few years in travel. We would
see the whole world. What good times we would have, Berna and I! Bless her! It had all worked
out beautifully.

Why was she so frightened, so loath to let me go? I wondered vaguely and flicked up the horse
so that it plunged sharply forward. The vast blue-black sky was like an inverted gold-pan and
the stars were flake colours adhering to it. The cold snapped at me till my cheeks tingled,
and my eyes felt as if they could spark. Oh, life was sweet!

Bother! In my elation I had forgotten to get off at the Old Inn and read my note. Never mind,
I would keep it till I reached the Forks.

As I spun along, I thought of how changed it all was from the Bonanza I first knew. How I remembered
tramping along that hillside slope, packing a sack of flour over a muddy trail, a poor miner
in muddy overalls! Now I was driving a smart horse on a fine road. I was an operator of a first-class
mine. I was a man of business, of experience. Higher and higher my spirits rose.

How fast the horse flew! I would be at the Forks in no time. I flashed past cabin windows.
I saw the solitary oil-lamp and the miner reading his book or filling his pipe. Never was there
a finer, more intelligent man; but his day was passing. The whole country was falling into
the hands of companies. Soon, thought I, one or two big combines would control the whole wealth
of that land. Already they had their eyes on it. The gold-ships would float and roar where
the old-time miner toiled with pick and pan. Change! Change!

I almost fancied I could see the monster dredges ploughing up the valley, where now men panted
at the windlass. I could see vast heaps of tailings filling the creek-bed; I could hear the
crash of the steel grizzlies; I could see the buckets scooping up the pay-dirt. I felt strangely
prophetic. My imagination ran riot in all kinds of wonders, great power plants, quartz discoveries.
Change! Change!

Yes, the stamp-mill would add its thunder to the other voices; the country would be netted
with wires, and clamorous for far and wide. Man had sought out this land where Silence had
reigned so long. He had awakened the echoes with the shot of his rifle and the ring of his
axe. Silence had raised a startled head and poised there, listening. Then, with crack of pick
and boom of blast, man had hurled her back. Further and further had he driven her. With his
advancing horde, mad in their lust for the loot of the valley, he had banished her. His engines
had frightened her with their canorous roar. His crashing giants had driven her cowering to
the inviolate fastnesses of her hills. And there she broods and waits.

But Silence will return. To her was given the land that she might rule and have dominion over
it forever. And in a few years the clamour will cease, the din will die away. In a few years
the treasure will be exhausted, and the looters will depart. The engines will lie in rust and
ruin; the wind will sweep through the empty homes; the tailing-piles lie pallid in the moon.
Then the last man will strike the last blow, and Silence will come again into her own.

Yea, Silence will come home once more. Again will she rule despotic over peak and plain. She
is only waiting, brooding in the impregnable desolation of her hills. To her has been given
empery of the land, and hand in hand with Darkness will she return.

CHAPTER XXI

Ha! here I had reached the Forks at last. As I drew up at the hotel, the clerk came out to meet me.

"Gent wants to speak to you at the 'phone, sir."

It was Murray of Dawson, an old-timer, and rather a friend of mine.

"Hello!"

"Hello! Say, Meldrum, this is Murray speaking. Say, just wanted to let you know there's a stage
due some time before morning. Locasto's on board, and they say he's heeled for you. Thought
I'd better tell you so's you can get fixed up for him."

"All right," I answered. "Thank you. I'll turn and come right back."

So I switched round the horse, and once more I drove over the glistening road. No longer did
I plan and exult. Indeed a grim fear was gripping me. Of a sudden the shadow of Locasto loomed
up sinister and menacing. Even now he was speeding Dawsonward with a great hatred of me in
his heart. Well, I would get back and prepare for him.

There came to my mind a comic perception of the awkwardness of returning to one's own home
unexpectedly, in the dead of night. At first I decided I would go to a hotel, then on second
thoughts I determined to try the house, for I had a desire to be near Berna.

I knocked gently, then a little louder, then at last quite loudly. Within all was still, dark
as a sepulchre. Curious! she was such a light sleeper, too. Why did she not hear me?

Once more I decided to go to the hotel; once more that vague, indefinite fear assailed me and
again I knocked. And now my fear was becoming a panic. I had my latch-key in my pocket, so
very quietly I opened the door.

I was in the front room, and it was dark, very dark and quiet. I could not even hear her breathe.

"Berna," I whispered.

No reply.

That dim, nameless dread was clutching at my heart, and I groped overhead in the darkness for
the drop-light. How hard it was to find! A dozen times my hand circled in the air before I
knocked my knuckles against it. I switched it on.

Instantly the cabin was flooded with light. In the dining-room I could see the remains of our
supper lying untidily. That was not like her. She had a horror of dirty dishes. I passed into
the bedroom--Ah! the bed had never been slept on.

What a fool I was! It flashed on me she had gone over to Mrs. Brooks' to sleep. She was afraid
of being alone. Poor little girl! How surprised she would be to see me in the morning!

Well, I would go to bed. As I was pulling off my coat, I found the note that had been given
to me. Blaming myself for my carelessness, I pulled it out of my pocket and opened it. As I
unfolded the sheet, I noticed it was written in what looked like a disguised hand. Strange!
I thought. The writing was small and faint. I rubbed my eyes and held it up to the light.

Merciful God! What was this? Oh no, it could not be! My eyes were deceiving me. It was some
illusion. Feverishly I read again. Yes, they were the same words. What could they mean? Surely,
surely--Oh, horror on horrors! They could not mean THAT. Again I read them. Yes, there they were:

     "If you are fool enough to believe that Berna is faithful to you
     visit your brother's room to-night.

                                                        "A wellwisher."

Berna! Garry!--the two I loved. Oh, it could not be! It was monstrous! It was too horrible!
I would not believe it; I would not. Curse the vile wretch that wrote such words! I would kill
him. Berna! my Berna! she was as good as gold, as true as steel. Garry! I would lay my life
on his honour. Oh, vile calumny! what devil had put so foul a thing in words? God! it hurt
me so, it hurt me so!

Dazedly I sat down. A sudden rush of heat was followed by a sweat that pricked out of me and
left me cold. I trembled. I saw a ghastly vision of myself in a mirror. I felt sick, sick.
Going to the decanter on the bureau, I poured myself a stiff jolt of whisky.

Again I sat down. The paper lay on the hearthrug, and I stared at it hatefully. It was unspeakably
loathsome, yet I was fascinated by it. I longed to take it up, to read it again. Somehow I
did not dare. I was becoming a coward.

Well, it was a lie, a black devil's lie. She was with one of the neighbours. I trusted her.
I would trust her with my life. I would go to bed. In the morning she would return, and then
I would unearth the wretch who had dared to write such things. I began to undress.

Slowly I unfastened my collar--that cursed paper; there it lay. Again it fascinated me. I stood
glaring at it. Oh, fool! fool! go to bed.

Wearily I took off my clothes--Oh, that devilish note! It was burning into my brain--it would
drive me mad. In a frenzy of rage, I took it up as if it were some leprous thing, and dropped
it in the fire.

There I lay in bed with the darkness enfolding me, and I closed my eyes to make a double darkness.
Ha! right in the centre of my eyes, burned the fatal paper with its atrocious suggestion. I
sprang up. It was of no use. I must settle this thing once and for all. I turned on the light
and deliberately dressed again.

I was going to the hotel where Garry had his room. I would tell him I had come back unexpectedly
and ask to share his room. I was not acting on the note! I did not suspect her. Heaven forbid!
But the thing had unnerved me. I could not stay in this place.

The hotel was quiet. A sleepy night-clerk stared at me, and I pushed past him. Garry's rooms
were on the third floor. As I climbed the long stairway, my heart was beating painfully, and
when I reached his door I was sadly out of breath. Through the transom I could see his light
was burning.

I knocked faintly.

There was a sudden stir.

Again I knocked.

Did my ears deceive me or did I hear a woman's startled cry? There was something familiar about
it--Oh, my God!

I reeled. I almost fell. I clutched at the doorframe. I leaned sickly against the door for
support. Heaven help me!

"I'm coming," I heard him say.

The door was unlocked, and there he stood. He was fully dressed. He looked at me with an expression
on his face I could not define, but he was very calm.

"Come in," he said.

I went into his sitting-room. Everything was in order. I would have sworn I heard a woman scream,
and yet no one was in sight. The bedroom door was slightly ajar. I eyed it in a fascinated way.

"I'm sorry to disturb you, Garry," I said, and I was conscious how strained and queer my voice
sounded. "I got back suddenly, and there's no one at home. I want to stay here with you, if
you don't mind."

"Certainly, old man; only too glad to have you."

His voice was steady. I sat down on the edge of a chair. My eyes were riveted on that bedroom door.

"Had a good drive?" he went on genially. "You must be cold. Let me give you some whisky."

My teeth were chattering. I clutched the chair. Oh, that door! My eyes were fastened on it.
I was convinced I heard some one in there. He rose to get the whisky.

"Say when?"

I held the glass with a shaking hand:

"When."

"What's the matter, old man? You're ill."

I clutched him by the arm.

"Garry, there's some one in that room."

"Nonsense! there's no one there."

"There is, I tell you. Listen! Don't you hear them breathing?"

He was quiet. Distinctly I could hear the panting of human breath. I was going mad, mad. I
could stand it no longer.

"Garry," I gasped, "I'm going to see, I'm going to see."

"Don't----"

"Yes, I must, I say. Let me go. I'll drag them out."

"Hold on----"

"Leave go, man! I'm going, I say. You won't hold me. Let go, I tell you, let go--Now come out,
come out, whoever you are--Ah!"

It was a woman.

"Ha!" I cried, "I told you so, brother; a woman. I think I know her, too. Here, let me see--I
thought so."

I had clutched her, pulled her to the light. It was Berna.

Her face was white as chalk, her eyes dilated with terror. She trembled. She seemed near fainting.

"I thought so."

Now that it seemed the worst was betrayed to me, I was strangely calm.

"Berna, you're faint. Let me lead you to a chair."

I made her sit down. She said no word, but looked at me with a wild pleading in her eyes. No
one spoke.

There we were, the three of us: Berna faint with fear, ghastly, pitiful; I calm, yet calm with
a strange, unnatural calmness, and Garry--he surprised me. He had seated himself, and with
the greatest sang-froid he was lighting a cigarette.

A long tense silence. At last I broke it.

"What have you got to say for yourself, Garry?" I asked.

It was wonderful how calm he was.

"Looks pretty bad, doesn't it, brother?" he said gravely.

"Yes, it couldn't look worse."

"Looks as if I was a pretty base, despicable specimen of a man, doesn't it?"

"Yes, about as base as a man could be."

"That's so." He rose and turned up the light of a large reading-lamp, then coming to me he
looked me square in the face. Abruptly his casual manner dropped. He grew sharp, forceful;
his voice rang clear.

"Listen to me."

"I'm listening."

"I came out here to save you, and I'm going to save you. You wanted me to believe that this
girl was good. You believed it. You were bewitched, befooled, blinded. I could see it, but
I had to make you see it. I had to make you realise how worthless she was, how her love for
you was a sham, a pretence to prey on you. How could I prove it? You would not listen to reason:
I had to take other means. Now, hear me."

"I hear."

"I laid my plans. For three months I've tried to conquer her, to win her love, to take her
from you. She was truer to you than I had bargained for; I must give her credit for that. She
made a good fight, but I think I have triumphed. To-night she came to my room at my invitation."

"Well?"

"Well. You got a note. Now, I wrote that note. I planned this scene, this discovery. I planned
it so that your eyes would be opened, so that you would see what she was, so that you would
cast her from you--unfaithful, a wanton, a----"

"Hold on there," I broke in; "brother of mine or no, I won't hear you call her those names;
no, not if she were ten times as unfaithful. You won't, I say. I'll choke the words in your
throat. I'll kill you, if you utter a word against her. Oh, what have you done?"

"What have I done! Try to be calm, man. What have I done? Well, this is what I've done, and
it's the lucky day for you I've done it. I've saved you from shame; I've freed you from sin;
I've shown you the baseness of this girl."

He rose to his feet.

"Oh, my brother, I've stolen from you your mistress; that's what I've done."

"Oh, no, you haven't," I groaned. "God forgive you, Garry; God forgive you! She's not my--not
what you think. She's my wife!"

CHAPTER XXII

I thought that he would faint. His face went white as paper and he shrank back. He gazed at
me with wild, straining eyes.

"God forgive me! Oh, why didn't you tell me, boy? Why didn't you tell me?"

In his voice there was a note more poignant than a sob.

"You should have trusted me," he went on. "You should have told me. When were you married?"

"Just a month ago. I was keeping it as a surprise for you. I was waiting till you said you
liked and thought well of her. Oh, I thought you would be pleased and glad, and I was treasuring
it up to tell you."

"This is terrible, terrible!"

His voice was choked with agony. On her chair, Berna drooped wearily. Her wide, staring eyes
were fixed on the floor in pitiful perplexity.

"Yes, it's terrible enough. We were so happy. We lived so joyously together. Everything was
perfect, a heaven for us both. And then you came, you with your charm that would lure an angel
from high heaven. You tried your power on my poor little girl, the girl that never loved but
me. And I trusted you, I tried to make you and her friends. I left you together. In my blind
innocence I aided you in every way--a simple, loving fool. Oh, now I see!"

"Yes, yes, I know. Your words stab me. It's all true, true."

"You came like a serpent, a foul, crawling thing, to steal her from me, to wrong me. She was
loving, faithful, pure. You would have dragged her in the mire. You----"

"Stop, brother, stop, for Heaven's sake! You wrong me."

He held out his hand commandingly. A wonderful change had come over him. His face had regained
its calm. It was proud, stern.

"You must not think I would have been guilty of that," he said quietly. "I've played a part
I never thought to play; I've done a thing I never thought to have dirtied my hands in the
doing, and I'm sorry and ashamed for it. But I tell you, Athol--that's all. As God's my witness,
I've done you no wrong. Surely you don't think me as low as that? Surely you don't believe
that of me? I did what I did for my very love for you, for your honour's sake. I asked her
here that you might see what she was--but that's all, I swear it. She's been as safe as if
in a cage of steel."

"I know it," I said; "I know it. You don't need to tell me that. You brought her here to expose
her, to show me what a fool I was. It didn't matter how much it hurt me, the more the better,
anything to save the name. You would have broken my heart, sacrificed me on the altar of your
accursed pride. Oh, I can see plainly now! There's a thousand years of prejudice and bigotry
concentrated in you. Thank God, I have a human heart!"

"I thought I was acting for the best!" he cried.

I laughed scornfully.

"I know it--according to your lights. You asked her here that I might see what she was. You
tell me you have gained her love; you say she came here at your bidding; you swear she would
have been unfaithful to me. Well, I tell you, brother of mine, in your teeth I tell you--I
don't believe you!"

Suddenly the little, drooping figure on the chair had raised itself; the white, woe-begone
face with the wide, staring eyes was turned towards me; the pitiful look had gone, and in its
stead was one of wild, unspeakable joy.

"It's all right, Berna," I said; "I don't believe him, and if a million others were to say
the same, if they were to thunder it in my ears down all eternity, I would tell them they lied,
they lied!"

A heaven-lit radiance was in the grey eyes. She made as if to come to me, but she swayed, and
I caught her in my arms.

"Don't be frightened, little girl. Give me your hand. See! I'll kiss it, dear. Now, don't cry;
don't, honey."

Her arms were around me. She clung to me ever so tightly.

"Garry," I said, "this is my wife. When I have lost my belief in all else, I will believe in
her. You have made us both suffer. As for what you've said--you're mistaken. She's a good,
good girl. I will not believe that by thought, word or deed she has been untrue to me. She
will explain everything. Now, good-bye. Come, Berna."

Suddenly she stopped me. Her hand was on my arm, and she turned towards Garry. She held herself
as proudly as a queen.

"I want to explain now," she said, "before you both."

She pulled from her bosom a little crumpled note, and handed it to me. Then, as I read it,
a great light burst on me. Here it was:

     "Dear Berna:

     "For heaven's sake be on your guard. Jack Locasto is on his way
     north again. I think he's crazy. I know he'll stick at nothing, and
     I don't want to see blood spilt. He says he means to wipe out all
     old scores. For your sake, and for the sake of one dear to you, be
     warned.

                                                "In haste,

                                                        "Viola Lennoir."

"I got it two days ago," she said. "Oh, I've been distracted with fear. I did not like to show
it to you. I've brought you nothing but trouble, and I've never spoken of him, never once.
You understand, don't you?"

"Yes, little girl, I understand."

"I wanted to save you, no matter at what cost. To-night I tried to prevent you going out there,
for I feared you might meet him. I knew he was very near. Then, when you had gone, my fear
grew and grew. There I sat, thinking over everything. Oh, if I only had a friend, I thought;
some one to help me. Then, as I sat, dazed, distracted, the 'phone rang. It was your brother."

"Yes, go on, dear."

"He told me he wanted to see me; he begged me to come at once. I thought of you, of your danger,
of some terrible mishap. I was terrified. I went."

She paused a moment, as if the recital was infinitely painful to her, then she went on.

"I found my way to his room. My mind was full of you, of that man, of how to save you. I did
not think of myself, of my position. At first I was too agitated to speak. He bade me sit down,
compose myself. His manner was quiet, grave. Again I feared for you. He asked me to excuse
him for a moment, and left the room. He seemed to be gone an age, while I sat there, trying
to fight down my terror. The suspense was killing me. Then he came back. He closed and locked
the door. All at once I heard a step outside, a knock. 'Hush! go in there,' he said. He opened
the door. I heard him speaking to some one. I waited, then you burst in on me. You know the rest."

"Yes, yes."

"As for your brother, I've tried, oh, so hard, to be nice to him for your sake. I liked him;
I wanted to be to him as a sister, but never an unfaithful thought has entered my head, never
a wrong feeling sullied my heart. I've been true to you. You told me once of a love that gives
all and asks for nothing; a love that would turn its back on friends and kindred for the sake
of its beloved. You said: 'His smile will be your rapture, his frown your anguish. For him
will you dare all, bear all. To him will you cling in sorrow, suffering and poverty. Living,
you would follow him round the world; dying, you would desire but him.'--Well, I think I love
you like that."

"Oh, my dear, my dear!"

"I want to bring you happiness, but I only bring you trouble, sorrow. Sometimes, for your sake,
I wish we had never met."

She turned to Garry.

"As for you, you've done me a great wrong. I can never forget it. Will you go now, and leave
us in peace?"

His head was bent, so that I could not see his face.

"Can you not forgive?" he groaned.

She shook her head sadly. "No, I am afraid I can never forgive."

"Can I do nothing to atone?"

"No, I'm afraid your punishment must be--that you can do nothing."

He said never a word. She turned to me:

"Come, my husband, we will go."

I was opening the door to leave him forever. Suddenly I heard a step coming up the stairs,
a heavy, hurried tread. I looked down a moment, then I pushed her back into the room.

"Be prepared, Berna," I said quietly; "here comes Locasto."

CHAPTER XXIII

There we waited, Garry and I, and between us Berna. We heard that heavy tread come up, up the
creaking stairway, stumble a moment, then pause on the landing. There was something ominous,
something pregnant in that pause. The steps halted, wavered a little, then, inflexible as doom,
on they came towards us. The next instant the door was thrown open, and Locasto stood in the
entrance.

Even in that brief moment I was struck by the change in him. He seemed to have aged by twenty
years. He was gaunt and lank as a starved timber wolf; his face was hollow almost as a death's
head; his hair was long and matted, and his eyes burned with a strange, unnatural fire. In
that dark, aquiline face the Indian was never more strongly revealed. He limped, and I noticed
his left hand was gloved.

From under his bristling brows he glared at us. As he swayed there he minded me of an evil
beast, a savage creature, a mad, desperate thing. He reeled in the doorway, and to steady himself
put out his gloved hand. Then with a malignant laugh, the fleering laugh of a fiend, he stepped
into the room.

"So! Seems as if I'd lighted on a pretty nest of love-birds. Ho! ho! my sweet! You're not satisfied
with one lover, you must have two. Well, you are going to be satisfied with one from now on,
and that's Jack Locasto. I've stood enough from you, you white-faced jade. You've haunted me,
you've put some kind of a spell on me. You've lured me back to this land, and now I'm going
to have you or die! You've played with me long enough. The jig's up. Stand out from between
those two. Stand out, I say! March out of that door."

She only shrank back the farther.

"You won't come, curse you; you won't come, you milk-faced witch, with your great eyes that
bore holes in me, that turn my heart to fire, that make me mad. You won't come. Stand back
there, you two, and let the girl come."

We shielded her.

"Ha! that's it--you defy me. You won't let me get her. Well, it'll be all the worse for her.
I'll make her life a hell. I'll beat her. You won't stand back. You, the dark one--don't I
know you; haven't I hated you more than the devil hates a saint; hated you worse than bitter
poison? These three black years you've balked me, you've kept her from me. Oh, I've itched
to kill you times without number, and I've spared you. But now it's my call. Stand back there,
stand back I say. Your time's come. Here's where I shoot."

His hand leapt up and I saw it gripped a revolver. He had me covered. His face was contorted
with devilish triumph, and I knew he meant to kill. At last, at last my time had come. I saw
his fingers twitching on the trigger, I gazed into the hollow horror of that barrel. My heart
turned to ice. I could not breathe. Oh, for a respite, a moment--Ugh!... he pulled the trigger,
and, at the same instant, Garry sprang at him!

What had happened? The shot rang in my ears. I was still standing there. I felt no wound. I
felt no pain. Then, as I stared at my enemy, I heard a heavy fall. Oh, God! there at my feet
lay Garry, lay in a huddled, quivering heap, lay on his face, and in his fair hair I saw a
dark stain start and spread. Then, in a moment, I realised what my brother had done.

I fell on my knees beside him.

"Garry, Garry!" I moaned. I heard Berna scream, and I saw that Locasto was coming for me. He
was a man no longer. He had killed. He was a brute, a fury, a devil, mad with the lust of slaughter.
With a snarl he dashed at me. Again I thought he was going to shoot, but no! He raised the
heavy revolver and brought it crashing down on my head. I felt the blow fall, and with it my
strength seemed to shoot out of me. My legs were paralysed. I could not move. And, as I lay
there in a misty daze, he advanced on Berna.

There she stood at bay, a horror-stricken thing, weak, panting, desperate. I saw him corner
her. His hands were stretched out to clutch her; a moment more and he would have her in his
arms, a moment--ah! With a suddenness that was like a flash she had raised the heavy reading-lamp
and dashed it in his face.

I heard his shriek of fear; I saw him fall as the thing crashed between his eyes; I saw the
flames spurt and leap. High in the air he rose, awful in his agony. He was in a shroud of fire;
he was in a pool of flame. He howled like a dog and fell over on the bed.

Then suddenly the oil-soaked bedding caught. The curtains seemed to leap and change into flame.
As he rolled and roared in his agony, the blaze ran up the walls, and caught the roof. Help,
help! the room was afire, was burning up. Fire! Fire!

Out in the corridor I heard a great running about, shouting of men, screaming of women. The
whole place seemed to be alive, panic-stricken, frenzied with fear. Everything was in flames
now, burning fiercely, madly, and there was no stopping them. The hotel was burning, and I,
too, must burn. What a horrible end! Oh, if I could only do something! But I could not move.
From the waist down I was like a dead man. Where was Berna? Pray God she was safe. I could
not cry for aid. The room was reeling round and round. I was faint, dizzy, helpless.

The hotel was ablaze. In the streets below crowds were gathering. People were running up and
down the stairway, fighting to get free, mad with terror, leaping from the windows. Oh, it
was awful, to burn, to burn! I seemed to be caged in flames that were darting at me savagely,
spitefully. Would nobody save me?

Yes, some one was trying to save me, was dragging my body across the floor. Consciousness left
me, and it seemed for ages I lay in a stupor. When I opened my eyes again some one was still
tugging at me. We were going down the stairway, and on all sides of us were sheets of flapping
flame. I was wrapped in a blanket. How had it got there? Who was that dark figure pulling at
me so desperately, trying to lift me, staggering a few paces with me, stumbling blindly on?
Brave one, noble one, whoever you be! Foolhardy one, reckless one, whoever you be! Save yourself
while yet there is time. Leave me to my fate. But, oh, the agony of it to burn, to burn ...!

       *       *       *       *       *

Another desperate effort and we are almost at the door. Flames are darting at us like serpents,
leaping kitten-like at our heels. Above us is a billowy canopy of fire soaring upward with
a vast crackling roar. Fiery splinters shoot around us, while before us is a black pit of smoke.
Smooth walls of fire uprear about us. We are in a cavern of fire, and in another moment it
will engulf us. Oh, my rescuer, a last frenzied effort! We are almost at the door. Then I am
lifted up and we both tumble out into the street. Not a second too soon, for, like a savage
beast foiled of its prey, a blast of flame shoots after us, and the doorway is a gulf of blazing
wrath.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am lying in the snow, lying on a blanket, and some one holds my head.

"Berna, is that you?"

She nods. She does not speak. I shudder as I look at her. Her face is like a great burn, a
black mask in which her eyes and teeth gleam whitely....

"Oh, Berna, Berna, and it was you that dragged me out...!"

       *       *       *       *       *

My eyes go to the fiery hell in front. As I look the roof crashes in and we are showered by
falling sparks. I see a fireman run back. He is swathed in flame. Madly he rolls in the snow.
The hotel is like a cascade of flame; it spouts outward like water, beautiful golden water.
In its centre is a wonderful whirlpool. I see the line of a black girder leap out, and hanging
over it a limp, charred shape. A moment it hangs uncertainly, then plunges downward into the
roasting heart of the pit. And I know it for Locasto.

       *       *       *       *       *

Oh, Berna, Berna! I can't bear to look at her. Why did she do it? It's pitiful, pitiful....

The fire is spreading. Right and left it swings and leaps in giant strides. Sudden flames shoot
out, curl over and roll like golden velvet down the black faces of the buildings. The fire
leaps the street. All is pandemonium now. Mad with fear and excitement, men and women rave
and curse and pray. Water! water! is the cry; but no water comes. Suddenly a mob of terror-goaded
men comes surging down the street. They bring the long hose line that connects with the pump-station
on the river. Hurrah! now they will soon have the flames under control. Water, water is coming.

The line is laid and a cry goes up to turn on the water. Hurry there! But no water comes. What
can be the matter? Then the dread whisper goes round that the man in charge of the pumping-station
has neglected his duty, and the engine fires are cold. A howl of fury and despair goes up to
the lurid heavens. Women wring their hands and moan; men stand by in a stupor of hopeless agony.
And the fire, as if it knew of its victory, leaps up in a roaring ecstasy of triumph.

