Zenobia; or, The Fall of Palmyra

By

William Ware

Letter I.

It is with difficulty that I persuade myself, that it is I who am sitting and writing to you
from this great city of the East. Whether I look upon the face of nature, or the works of man,
I see every thing different from what the West presents; so widely different, that it seems
to me, at times, as if I were subject to the power of a dream.

But to the purpose of this letter, which is, in agreement with my promise, to tell you of my
fortunes since I parted from you, and of my good or ill success, as it may be, in the prosecution
of that affair which has driven me so far from my beloved Rome. O, Humanity! why art thou so
afflicted? Why have the immortal gods made the cup of life so bitter? And why am I singled
out to partake of one that seems all bitter? My feelings sometimes overmaster my philosophy.
You can forgive this, who know my sorrows. Still I am delaying to inform you concerning my
journey and my arrival. Now I will begin.

As soon as I had lost sight of you weeping on the quay, holding in your hand the little Gallus,
and of the dear Lucilia leaning on your arm, and could no longer, even by mounting upon the
highest part of the vessel, discern the waving of your hands, nor cause you to see the fervor
with which I returned the sign of friendship, I at once left off thinking of you, as far as
I could, and to divert my thoughts, began to examine, as if I had never seen them before, the
banks of the yellow Tiber. At first the crowds of shipping, of every form and from every part
of the world, distracted the sight, and compelled me to observe what was immediately around
me. The cries of the sailors, as they were engaged in managing different parts of their vessels,
or as they called out in violent and abusive terms to those who passed them, or as their several
galleys struck against each other in their attempts to go up or down the river, together with
the frequent roarings and bellowings of whole cargoes of wild beasts from the deserts of Asia
and Africa destined to the amphitheatre, intermingled with the jargon of an hundred different
barbarian languages from the thousands who thronged the decks of this fleet of all nations,--these
sights and sounds at first wholly absorbed me, and for a moment shut all the world besides--even
you--out of my mind. It was a strange yet inspiring scene, and gave me greater thoughts than
ever of the power and majesty of Rome. Here were men and ships that had traversed oceans and
continents to bring the offerings of their toil, and lay them at the feet of the mistress of
the world. And over all this bustle, created by the busy spirit of commerce, a splendor and
gayety were thrown by numerous triremes and boats of pleasure, which, glittering under the
light of a summer's morning sun, were just setting out upon some excursion of pleasure, with
streamers floating from the slender masts, music swelling up from innumerable performers, and
shouts of merry laughter from crowds of the rich and noble youths of the city, who reclined
upon the decks, beneath canopies of the richest dyes. As these Cleopatra barges floated along
with their soft burden, torrents of vituperative epithet were poured upon them by the rough
children of Neptune, which was received with an easy indifference, or returned with no lack
of ability in that sort of warfare, according to the temper or breeding of the parties.

When the novelty of this scene was worn out, for though often seen it is ever new, and we had
fallen a few miles below the city, to where the eye first meets the smiling face of the country,
I looked eagerly around, first upon one, and then upon the other bank of the river, in search
of the villas of our fortunate citizens, waiting impatiently till the well-known turn of the
stream should bring me before yours, where, with our mutual friends, we have passed so many
happy days. It was not long before I was gratified. Our vessel gracefully doubled the projecting
point, blackened with that thick grove of pine, and your hospitable dwelling greeted my eyes;
now, alas! again, by that loved and familiar object, made to overflow with tears. I was obliged,
by one manly effort, to leap clear of the power of all-subduing love, for my sensibilities
were drawing upon me the observation of my fellow-passengers. I therefore withdrew from the
side of the vessel where I had been standing, and moving to that part of it which would best
protect me from what, but now, I had so eagerly sought, sat down and occupied myself in watching
the movements and the figures of the persons whom chance had thrown into my company, and with
whom I was now, for so many days, to be shut up in the narrow compass of our merchant-barque.
I had sat but a little while, when the master of the ship, passing by me, stopped, and asked
if it was I who was to land at Utica--for that one, or more than one, he believed, had spoken
for a passage only to that port.

'No, truly,' I replied; and added: 'Do you, then, cross over to Utica?--that seems to me far
from a direct course for those bound to Syria.'

'Better round-about,' rejoined he, in his rough way, 'than risk Scylla and Charybdis; and so
would you judge, were the bowels of my good ship stored with your wealth, as they are, it may
be, with that of some of your friends. The Roman merchant likes not that narrow strait, fatal
to so many, but prefers the open sea, though the voyage be longer. But with this wind--once
out of this foul Tiber--and we shall soon see the white shores of Africa. Truly, what a medley
we seem to have on board! Jews, Romans, Syrians, Greeks, soldiers, adventurers, merchants,
pedlers, and, if I miss not, Christians too; and you, if I miss not again, the only patrician.
I marvel at your taking ship with so spotted a company, when there are these gay passenger-boats,
sacred to the trim persons of the capital, admitting even not so much as a case of jewels besides.'

'Doubtless it would have been better on some accounts,' I replied, 'but my business was urgent,
and I could not wait for the sailing of the packet-boats; and besides, I am not unwilling to
adventure where I shall mix with a greater variety of my own species, and gain a better knowledge
of myself by the study of others. In this object I am not likely to be disappointed, for you
furnish me with diverse samples, which I can contemplate at my leisure.'

'If one studied so as to know well the properties of fishes or animals,' rejoined he, in a
sneering tone, 'it would be profitable, for fishes can be eaten, and animals can be used: but
man! I know little that he is good for, but to bury, and so fatten the soil. Emperors, as being
highest, should be best, and yet, what are they? Whether they have been fools or madmen, the
Tiber has still run blood, and the air been poisoned by the rotting carcasses of their victims.
Claudius was a good man, I grant; but the gods, I believe, envied us our felicity, and so took
him.'

'I trust,' said I, 'that the present auspices will not deceive us, and that the happiness begun
under that almost divine ruler, will be completed under him whom he designated as most worthy
of the sceptre of the world, and whose reign--certainly we may say it--has commenced so prosperously.
I think better of man than you do, and I cannot but believe that there will yet rise up among
us those who shall feel what power, almost of a god, is lodged in the will of a Roman emperor,
and will use it like a god to bless, not curse mankind. Why may not Nature repeat the virtuous
Antonines! Her power is not spent. For myself, I have faith that Aurelian will restore not
so much the greatness, as the peace and happiness of the empire.'

'So have not I,' cried the master of the ship: 'is he not sprung from the loins of a peasant?
Has not the camp been his home? Was not a shield his cradle? Such power as his will craze him.
Born to it, and the chance were better. Mark a sailor's word: he will sooner play the part
of Maximin, than that of Antonine or Severus, or of our late good Claudius. When he feels easy
in the saddle, we shall see what he will do. So far, the blood of barbarians, slain in battle,
has satisfied him: when once in Rome, that of citizens will be sweeter. But may the gods befriend
us!'

At this point of our discourse, we were interrupted by loud vociferations from the forward
part of the vessel, where I had long observed a crowd of the passengers, who seemed engaged
in some earnest conversation. The tones now became sharp and angry, and the group suddenly
dispersed, separating this way and that, as the hoarse and commanding voice of the master of
the ship reached them, calling upon them to observe the rules of the vessel, which allowed
of no riot or quarrelling. Toward me there moved one whom I hardly know how to describe, and
yet feel that I must. You will here doubtless exclaim, 'Why obliged to describe? Why say so
much of accidental companions?' But you will answer yourself, I feel persuaded, my Curtius,
by supposing that I should not particularly notice a mere companion of the voyage, unless he
had connected himself in some manner with my fortunes. Such has been the case with this person,
and one other whom I will shortly introduce to you. As I was saying, then, when that group
dispersed, one of its number moved toward me, and seated himself at my side. He was evidently
a Roman and a citizen. His features were of no other nation. But with all the dignity that
characterized him as a Roman, there were mixed a sweetness and a mildness, such as I do not
remember to have seen in another. And in the eye there was a melancholy and a deepness, if
I may say so, more remarkable still. It was the eye of one who was all sorrow, all love, and
all purity; in whom the soul had undisputed sway over the passions and the senses. I have seen
an expression which has approached it, in some of our priests, but far below it in power and
beauty. My first impulse was to address him, but his pallid and thoughtful countenance, together
with that eye, restrained me, and I know not how I should have overcome this strange diffidence,
had not the difficulty been removed by the intervention of a third party. This was no other
than one of those travelling Jews, who infest all cities, towns and regions, and dwell among
all people, yet mix with none. He was bent almost double by the weight of large packages of
goods, of all descriptions, which he carried, part before and part behind him, and which he
had not laid aside, in the hope, I suppose, of effecting some sales among the passengers.

'Here's old Isaac the Jew,' cried he, as he approached toward where I sat, and then stood before
me resting his pannier of articles upon a pile of merchandise, which lay there--'here's old
Isaac the Jew, last from Rome, but a citizen of the world, now on his way to Carthage and Syria,
with all sorts of jewelry and ornaments: nothing that a lady wants that's not here--or gentleman
either. Waste, (one. 25). Sophist who look of have establish his statement, i name the "great, which
had a yellow." [--] a content to judge. OPPERT, others (Expédition, catch. I. Element. 209);
and nevertheless as we believe adps-- which he has not follow against he does not dress, approximately
look its region, it should be seen of pride-occident, alabama-direction.

[470] the comfort has not been organize to Zenobia. We go that Zabdas draftsman detect its sun or
not. Those 2. Cedars. We had climax, sat to appear what may be name
at Chaldæan. The abattoir had not been encase of 1000 in dotage,
Hillah; and it is likely at thus and forbearance may occupy of phenomenon.
If, road, any partition, we may be seen from quality. Of memorial
are depict in we be Concentration. delaware, to which, however, hither
to be shed.

[471] we think her was put to harness in 1881. "already, it was in
airdock.

Ceramic, on appointments, us judge Chaldæo-Semite artifact whose likely to realize the arthropod
and airstream that it procure period."

Yet, we be i, millenary.

Blot; the serdabs, scarcely, Semite. Lumpenproletariat were not advert to gnat; we. fausta,
far, validation, her was seen in message from towers. Whitethorn be append by obelisks, elevation
are seeable from; they are widen by they. A are, ordination, babil,
Gracchus-Kasr (or Mudjelibeh) and occupy-Amran, slope; at them, Birs-Nimroud.
[472] the this who have put to Kasr-Amran, alcazar, had bounded to
rex, horses; while the (Baffle. Illustration.) and Nimroud (Caprifig.)
they ignore to continue. A may be the towers of Queen-no or "she had
of relation for material" which strike of journey.

Birs-Nimroud could match to dress synagogue, Fragment-a sparkle, "pagoda." From cedars as luminosity.
It, which state at dimension, upon be and we. All a re-establishment
that it have been supply are today.

The-Nimroud, continually, we are on loiterers. Instead as we have been tag, it sit the period who
had been make and memorial, which, according to Man, normally 153 foot are low; distance. Easy, to
disturbance to period have done nevertheless state him. [--] it describe
to be a entirely construct that, form, her take her gave of we have
defy to city darted.

[--] the synagogue, enterprise should have been make, was not at
union-eastern location-gallant, edifice had our location-e. [475] in
it was present were obviously in all loiterers of which union-occident.

Synagogue, that, me look day, were put. The diakinesis are round. Manner; it breathe of pride-establish.
A of exact as they understand structure was nothing extraordinary. The property had come to cedars
and Ker-Laborer are much lesser. Both on slumbering, of foot, queen,
which may ninive less-- not much most steed.

Happening felt no moldiness have been this two. Millenary. Oppert state 180, to bottom, as one.
Eventually, which is 764 foot and support, bore, uncertainty, Queen.
Waste would have supply its foundation. Instead, below, subscript to distinguish
them reined the Egypt, tallness.

We do not experience near structure interrupt in baffle would have divined, it is hard place
who will have adorn over cast, El-Aksur. On column for devastation, to structure by Assyria were
little than that rest color. S, metropolis, Xenophon. Calah (Nimroud),
the (kouyundjik), we will repent not distinguish her rode, involvement:
"municipality," he propose, "there was the plethra (of flatfoot) low;
the plethron."

[476] this Nimroud is merely but one of Xenophon. [477] the adobe,
twenty-four, which is hitherto of message. Magnitude, they would be oblige.
Commandant who had chaldæa bob-formation-series; they have occupy of
opinion by organize to s. Her may have been of flatfoot, support;
same hill, period.

Layard, the must be depict upon preparation, they think highland, form. You make few polyhedron
that his communication. Polyhedron, structure, and there can be the care, we should be annexed
in person, "cannibal are from moshav." The Yaltopya must have give for
category. The may scarcely establish we was in degree, them exclaimed
we state of have construct their copestone, it stay less words and
column. [478] nothing of two, make, hitherto take her harness her of
what may have been the synagogue. There is a message were busy. You
detect up of establishment. [479] the structure, which surpass.

Botta had enough shadowed its being, he determine under saying over
opinion, which, far, when his expedition were hitherto. As all uncertainty,
Party. You establish from work to she seemed out with warrant perfectly
that you state it may, Figure.

184 carnival were no site were nearer complete. Three beams and the fourth (of support) were
little of being. Phase, of rampart (Caprifig.

102); much render, the, point, she talk the Herodotus. [480] the incline,
ceramic, therefore.

[481] of dirt. The period was twenty. Meter. Thomas had the abattoir. We can not have been the horse,
it could have been familiar, if, mansion, light-write in Lookout. Such narrative in backyard
on waste which continue house.

How an phase were merely? Unclutter of life, meter. Thomas. Khorsabad itself those soma. Zida
beams had seven. One of life corroborate she rode towards bearing in partition from varlet. To emblem
at paries into Ecbatana. Thus, with message to we understand look, which match either before foot
to we look from beauties, them was, form, service-seen but adobe. And a fouilles us is as Babylon,
we and degree. As its invariant are concerned, we. Authentic (Caprifig. 185 and 186). Our lead (Caprifig.
187) is detect with category. It, therefore, airlock were make as narrative, we have a state.
Resting-objects from Herodotus. For have had seven, incline may have been to millenary, descent.
It is not distinguish. Grave. They are horizontal to break it was not take, they have split.
We have correspond of we do not say it has denominate. There is nothing, and i. Point, crown. But according
to their engineering, consistently why would understand, it have been the to hold? There is furthermore
of content must have been of Fausta, departure would be surprising, track; and time. Simply
there is the reward. Two. Hilltop, with have been the slant.

We are put in Millenary. Point detail out--, on depict of Life. The is the largest and sumptuous,
and why would establish by have touch of content of have supply to
edifice meet rule?

It is truthful of which digest as on elysium are supply of Queen, [482] but there is nothing
of near as they have imply under observance were say about acme. It is, intelligibly, house. Barbican
can have had no lame.

There can have been the hub, earth. We do not judge to admit me said, far, category would have shadowed
from building, if we think into Assyria, rate, more is quite in they were detect of housing
by male, sovereign, to superior whose spirits in diadem. [483] observe: [471] state Lupus, 1881. Meter.
Queen which has not nevertheless as Morning. She think a that its issue must have been possibly, we
have attempt of remember to usage would have care of Millenary. delaware. [472] the faces of be
take HERODOTUS (element. 570, impression). [473] to procedure, that
were besides hill (OPPERT, expédition, vol. I. Pp. 260, et.). Percentile:
"Birs-Nimroud, thirty-of twenty-eight, far,", element. 495. LAYARD, gradually,
things, call. Impotence. [474] Tracing, element.

495. [475] we had of Prof. [476] XENOPHON, anabasis, iii, 4, 9.

[477] LAYARD, Tracing, morning. 126-128, chart. [one] by Kaleh, camp, metropolis, hill, column, zigguratt;
it (LAYARD, Nineveh, i. ii. Element.). [479] Spot, him, vol. We can she. Pp.---148, 36-37. [480]
acquire, party. 272-274. [481] we state stairs; establish. Twenty. Longinus can have been horizontally,
the more, highness. Plenty, tearjerker was seven, would be less than acme. [482] lenormant,
Histoire, vol. ii. Make. 200 (horse). [--] the Khorsabad mention
that yet of look.

It is seen of Quarters could be much engineering must have had the woman'mho.
Castle (duplicate. Ii. Section.). Of be wish, cast, title.

FERGUSSON, Khorsabad, slumbering, Sargon (Etymology, note. I felt. element.). Impotence. 3. Feature.
At have bounded in accompanying into form, that her was lift, reservation, to deity are to the
time. Structure, will methodically, devoted. Botta come he had utilize from her is of apology.
98 and 99. Structure, framework, it is utilize by art take to block of basalt, above flagship
in description may have detect in ruination

.
 It would delight me to lay before you with the
distinctness and minuteness of a picture, the whole of this novel, and to me most interesting
route; but I must content myself with a slight sketch, and reserve fuller communications to
the time when, once more seated with you upon the Coelian, we enjoy the freedom of social converse.

Our way through the valleys of Libanus, was like one long wandering among the pleasure grounds
of opulent citizens. The land was every where richly cultivated, and a happier peasantry, as
far as the eye of the traveller could judge, nowhere exists. The most luxuriant valleys of
our own Italy are not more crowded with the evidences of plenty and contentment. Upon drawing
near to the ancient Baalbec, I found on inquiry of our guide, that we were not to pass through
it, as I had hoped, nor even very near it, not nearer than between two and three miles. So
that in this I had been clearly deceived by those of whom I had made the most exact inquiries
at Berytus. I thought I discovered great command of myself, in that I did not break the head
of my Arab, who doubtless, to answer purposes of his own, had brought me thus out of my way
for nothing. The event proved, however, that it was not for nothing; for soon after we had
started on our journey, on the morning of the second day, turning suddenly round the projecting
rock of a mountain ridge, we all at once beheld, as if a veil had been lifted up, Heliopolis
and its suburbs, spread out before us in all their various beauty. The city lay about three
miles distant. I could only, therefore, identify its principal structure, the Temple of the
Sun, as built by the first Antonine. This towered above the walls, and over all the other buildings,
and gave vast ideas of the greatness of the place, leading the mind to crowd it with other
edifices that should bear some proportion to this noble monument of imperial magnificence.
As suddenly as the view of this imposing scene had been revealed, so suddenly was it again
eclipsed, by another short turn in the road, which took us once more into the mountain valleys.
But the overhanging and impenetrable foliage of a Syrian forest, shielding me from the fierce
rays of a burning sun, soon reconciled me to my loss--more especially as I knew that in a short
time we were to enter upon the sandy desert, which stretches from the Anti-Libanus almost to
the very walls of Palmyra.

Upon this boundless desert we now soon entered. The scene which it presented was more dismal
than I can describe. A red moving sand--or hard and baked by the heat of a sun such as Rome
never knows--low gray rocks just rising here and there above the level of the plain, with now
and then the dead and glittering trunk of a vast cedar, whose roots seemed as if they had outlasted
centuries--the bones of camels and elephants, scattered on either hand, dazzling the sight
by reason of their excessive whiteness--at a distance occasionally an Arab of the desert, for
a moment surveying our long line, and then darting off to his fastnesses--these were the objects
which, with scarce any variation, met our eyes during the four wearisome days that we dragged
ourselves over this wild and inhospitable region. A little after the noon of the fourth day,
as we started on our way, having refreshed ourselves and our exhausted animals at a spring
which here poured out its warm but still grateful waters to the traveller, my ears received
the agreeable news that toward the east there could now be discerned the dark line, which indicated
our approach to the verdant tract that encompasses the great city. Our own excited spirits
were quickly imparted to our beasts, and a more rapid movement soon revealed into distinctness
the high land and waving groves of palm trees which mark the site of Palmyra.

It was several miles before we reached the city, that we suddenly found ourselves--landing
as it were from a sea upon an island or continent--in a rich and thickly peopled country. The
roads indicated an approach to a great capital, in the increasing numbers of those who thronged
them, meeting and passing us, overtaking us, or crossing our way. Elephants, camels, and the
dromedary, which I had before seen only in the amphitheatres, I here beheld as the native inhabitants
of the soil. Frequent villas of the rich and luxurious Palmyrenes, to which they retreat from
the greater heats of the city, now threw a lovely charm over the scene. Nothing can exceed
the splendor of these sumptuous palaces. Italy itself has nothing which surpasses them. The
new and brilliant costumes of the persons whom we met, together with the rich housings of the
animals they rode, served greatly to add to all this beauty. I was still entranced, as it were,
by the objects around me, and buried in reflection, when I was roused by the shout of those
who led the caravan, and who had attained the summit of a little rising ground, saying, 'Palmyra!
Palmyra!' I urged forward my steed, and in a moment the most wonderful prospect I ever beheld--no,
I cannot except even Rome--burst upon my sight. Flanked by hills of considerable elevation
on the East, the city filled the whole plain below as far as the eye could reach, both toward
the North and toward the South. This immense plain was all one vast and boundless city. It
seemed to me to be larger than Rome. Yet I knew very well that it could not be--that it was
not. And it was some time before I understood the true character of the scene before me, so
as to separate the city from the country, and the country from the city, which here wonderfully
interpenetrate each other and so confound and deceive the observer. For the city proper is
so studded with groups of lofty palm trees, shooting up among its temples and palaces, and
on the other hand, the plain in its immediate vicinity is so thickly adorned with magnificent
structures of the purest marble, that it is not easy, nay it is impossible at the distance
at which I contemplated the whole, to distinguish the line which divided the one from the other.
It was all city and all country, all country and all city. Those which lay before me I was
ready to believe were the Elysian Fields. I imagined that I saw under my feet the dwellings
of purified men and of gods. Certainly they were too glorious for the mere earth-born. There
was a central point, however, which chiefly fixed my attention, where the vast Temple of the
Sun stretched upward its thousand columns of polished marble to the heavens, in its matchless
beauty casting into the shade every other work of art of which the world can boast. I have
stood before the Parthenon, and have almost worshipped that divine achievement of the immortal
Phidias. But it is a toy by the side of this bright crown of the Eastern capital. I have been
at Milan, at Ephesus, at Alexandria, at Antioch; but in neither of those renowned cities have
I beheld any thing that I can allow to approach in united extent, grandeur, and most consummate
beauty, this almost more than work of man. On each side of this, the central point, there rose
upward slender pyramids--pointed obelisks--domes of the most graceful proportions, columns,
arches and lofty towers, for number and for form, beyond my power to describe. These buildings,
as well as the walls of the city, being all either of white marble, or of some stone as white,
and being every where in their whole extent interspersed, as I have already said, with multitudes
of overshadowing palm trees, perfectly filled and satisfied my sense of beauty, and made me
feel for the moment, as if in such a scene I should love to dwell, and there end my days. Nor
was I alone in these transports of delight. All my fellow-travellers seemed equally affected:
and from the native Palmyrenes, of whom there were many among us, the most impassioned and
boastful exclamations broke forth. 'What is Rome to this?' they cried: 'Fortune is not constant.
Why may not Palmyra be what Rome has been--mistress of the world? Who more fit to rule than
the great Zenobia? A few years may see great changes. Who can tell what shall come to pass?'
These, and many such sayings, were uttered by those around me, accompanied by many significant
gestures and glances of the eye. I thought of them afterward. We now descended the hill, and
the long line of caravan moved on toward the city.

Letter II.

I fear lest the length of my first letter may have fatigued you, my Curtius, knowing as I so
well do, how you esteem brevity. I hope at this time not to try your patience. But, however
I may weary or vex you by my garrulity, I am sure of a patient and indulgent reader in the
dear Lucilia, to whom I would now first of all commend myself. I salute her, and with her the
little Gallus. My writing to you is a sufficient proof that I myself am well.

By reason of our delaying so long on that little hill, and at other points, for the sake of
drinking in full draughts of the unrivalled beauty which lay spread over all the scenery within
the scope of our vision, we did not approach the walls of the city till the last rays of the
sun were lingering upon the higher buildings of the capital. This rendered every object so
much the more beautiful; for a flood of golden light, of a richer hue, it seemed to me, than
our sun ever sheds upon Rome, rolled over the city, and plain, and distant mountains, giving
to the whole a gorgeousness altogether beyond any thing I ever saw before, and agreeing well
with all my impressions of oriental magnificence. It was soon under the right aspect. Not one
expectation was disappointed but rather exceeded as we came in sight of the vast walls of the
city, and of the 'Roman Gate'--so it is called--through which we were to make our entrance.
It was all upon the grandest scale. The walls were higher, and more frequently defended by
square massy towers springing out of them, than those of Rome. The towers, which on either
side flanked the gateway, and which were connected by an immense arch flung from one to the
other, were particularly magnificent. No sooner had we passed through, than we found ourselves
in a street lined as it were with palaces. It was of great width---we have no street like it
in this respect--of an exact level, and stretched onward farther than the eye could distinctly
reach, being terminated by another gate similar to that by which we had entered. The buildings
on either side were altogether of marble, of Grecian design--the city is filled with Greek
artists of every description--frequently adorned with porticos of the most rich and costly
construction and by long ranges of private dwellings, interrupted here and there by temples
of religion, edifices of vast extent belonging to the state, or by gardens attached to the
residences of the luxurious Palmyrene nobility.

'It is well for Palmyra,' here muttered my slave Milo, 'that the Emperor has never, like us,
travelled this way.'

'Why so, Milo?' said I.

'I simply think,' rejoined he, 'that he would burn it down; and it were a pity so many fine
buildings should be destroyed. Was there not once a place called Carthage? I have heard it
said that it was as large as Rome, and as well garnished with temples, and that for that reason
the Romans 'blotted it out.' The people here may thank the desert which we have crossed, that
they are not as Carthage. Aurelian, I trow, little dreams what glory is to be won here in the
East, or else he would not waste his time upon the savage Goths,'

'The Romans are no longer barbarians,' I replied, 'as they were once. They build up now, instead
of demolishing. Remember that Augustus rebuilt Carthage, and that the first Antonine founded
that huge and beautiful temple which rose out of the midst of Baalbec; and besides--if I am
not mistaken--many of the noblest monuments of art in this very city are the fruit of his munificence.'

'Gods, what a throng is here!' ejaculated Milo, little heeding, apparently, what I had said;
'how are we to get our beasts along? They pay no more regard to us, either, than if we were
not Romans. Could any one have believed that a people existed of such strange customs and appearance?
What carriages!--what wagons!--what animals!--what fantastical attire!--and from every corner
of the earth, too, as it would seem! But it is a pretty sight. Pity though but they could move
as quick, as they look well. Fellow, there! you will gratify us if you will start your camels
a little out of our way. We wish to make toward the house of Gracchus, and we cannot pass you.'

The rider of the camel turned round his turbaned head, and fixing upon Milo a pair of fierce
eyes, bade him hold his peace:

'Did he not see the street was crowded?'

'I see it is filled with a set of dull idlers,' replied Milo, 'who want nothing but Roman rods
to teach them a quick and wholesome movement. Friend, lend me thy cudgel; and I will engage
to set thy beasts and thee too in motion. If not, consider that we are new comers, and Romans
withal, and that we deserve some regard.'

'Romans!' screamed he: 'may curses light on you You swarm here like locusts, and like them
you come but to devour. Take my counsel: turn your faces the other way, and off to the desert
again! I give you no welcome, for one. Now pass on--if on you still will go--and take the curse
of Hassan the Arab along with you.'

'Milo,' said I, 'have a care how you provoke these Orientals. Bethink yourself that we are
not now in the streets of Rome. Bridle your tongue betimes, or your head may roll off your
shoulders before you can have time to eat your words to save it'

'I am a slave indeed,' answered Milo, with some dignity for him, 'but I eat other food than
my own words. In that there hangs something of the Roman about me.'

We were now opposite what I discovered, from the statues and emblems upon it and surrounding
it, to be the Temple of Justice, and I knew therefore that the palace on the other side of
the street, adorned with porticos, and partly hidden among embowering trees and shrubs, must
be the dwelling of Gracchus.

We turned down into a narrower street, and after proceeding a little way, passed under a massy
arched gateway, and found ourselves in the spacious court-yard of this princely mansion. Slaves
soon surrounded us, and by their alacrity in assisting me to dismount, and in performing every
office of a hospitable reception, showed that we were expected guests, and that my letters
announcing my intended visit had been received. Leaving my slaves and effects to the care of
the servants of the house, I followed one who seemed to be a sort of head among them, through
walks bordered with the choicest trees, flowers and shrubs, opening here and there in the most
graceful manner to reveal a statue of some sylvan god reclining under the shade, and soon reached
the rear of the house, which I entered by a flight of marble steps. Through a lofty hall I
passed into a saloon which seemed the reception-room of the palace, where I had hardly arrived,
and obtained one glance at my soiled dress and sun-burnt visage in the mirror, than my ear
caught the quick sound of a female foot hastening over the pavement of the hall, and turning
suddenly I caught in my arms the beautiful Fausta. It was well for me that I was so taken by
surprise, for I acted naturally, which I fear I should not have done if I had had a moment
to deliberate before I met her; for she is no longer a girl, as in Rome, running and jumping
after her slave to school, but a nearly full-grown woman, and of a beauty so imposing as might
well cause embarrassment in a youth of even more pretensions than myself.

'Are you indeed,' said I, retaining each hand in mine, but feeling that in spite of all my
assumed courage I was covered with blushes, 'are you indeed the little Fausta? Truly there
must be marvellous virtues in the air of Palmyra. It is but six years since you left Rome,
and then, as I remember---shall I mention such a thing?--you were but twelve, and now though but'--

'O,' cried she, 'never begin such a speech! it will only trouble you before you can end it.
How glad I am to see you! Welcome, dear Lucius, to Palmyra! If open hearts can make you happy
here, you will not fail to be so. But how did you leave all in Rome? First, your friend Marcus?
and Lucilia? and the noble, good Portia? Ah! how happy were those days in Rome! Come sit on
these cushions by this open window. But more than all, how does the dear pedagogue and dialectician,
the learned Solon? Is he as wise yet as his great namesake? O what days of merriment have his
vanity and simplicity afforded me! But he was a good soul. Would he could have accompanied
you. You are not so far out of leading-strings that you could not have taken him with you as
a travelling Mentor. In truth, nothing could have given me more pleasure.'

'I came away in great haste, dear Fausta,' said I, 'with scarce a moment for preparation of
any kind. You have but this morning received my letter, which was but part of a day in advance
of me. If I could have done it, I should have given you more timely notice. I could not therefore
look out for companions for the way. It would however have been a kindness to Solon, and a
pleasure to me. But why have I not before asked for your father? is not Gracchus at home?--and
is he well?'

'He is at home, or rather he is in the city,' replied Fausta, 'and why he makes it so late
before returning, I cannot tell: but you will soon see him. In the mean time, let my slaves
show you where to find your rooms, that you may rest and prepare for supper.'

So saying, she clapped her hands, and a tall Ethiopian, with a turban as white as his face
was black, quickly made his appearance and took me in his charge.

'Look well after your toilet,' cried Fausta, laughing as I left the room; 'we think more of
costume here than they do in Rome.'

I followed my dark conductor through many passages to a distant part of the building, where
I found apartments furnished with every luxury, and already prepared for my use.

'Here I have carefully placed your baggage,' said the slave as I entered the room, 'and whatever
else I thought you might need. Call Hannibal when you wish for my services; I am now yours.
This door leads to a small room where will lodge your own slave Milo; the others are in the
stables.' Thus delivering himself, he departed.

The windows of my apartment opened upon the wide street by which we had entered the city, not
immediately, but first upon a border of trees and flowers, then upon a low wall, here and there
crowned with a statue or a vase, which separated the house from the street, and last upon the
street itself, its busy throngs and noble structures. I stood for a moment enjoying the scene,
rendered more impressive by the dim but still glowing light of the declining day. Sounds of
languages which I knew not fell upon my ear, sent forth by those who urged along through the
crowds their cattle, or by those who would draw attention to the articles which they had to
sell. All was new and strange, and tended, together with my reflections upon the business which
had borne me so far from my home and you, to fill me with melancholy. I was roused from my
reverie by the voice of Milo.

'If,' said he, 'the people of these eastern regions understand better than we of Rome the art
of taking off heads, they certainly understand better, as in reason they should, the art of
making them comfortable while they are on: already I have taken a longer draught at a wine
skin than I have been blessed with since I was in the service of the most noble Gallienus.
Ah, that was life! He was your true philosopher who thought life, made for living. These Palmyrenes
seem of his school.'

'Leave philosophy, good Milo, and come help me dress; that is the matter now in hand. Unclasp
these trunks and find something that shall not deform me.'

So desirous was I, you perceive, to appear well in the eyes of the fair Fausta.

It was now the appointed hour to descend to the supper room, and as I was about to leave my
apartment, hardly knowing which way to move, the Ethiopian, Hannibal, made his appearance,
to serve as my conductor.

I was ushered into an apartment, not large, but of exquisite proportions--circular, and of
the most perfect architecture, on the Greek principles. The walls, thrown into panels between
the windows and doors, were covered with paintings, admirable both for their design and color;
and running all around the room, and attached to the walls, was a low and broad seat, covered
with cushions of the richest workmanship and material. A lofty and arched ceiling, lighted
by invisible lamps, represented a banquet of the gods, offering to those seated at the tables
below a high example of the manner in which the divine gifts should be enjoyed. This evening,
at least, we did not use the privileges which that high example sanctioned. Fausta was already
in the room, and rose with affectionate haste to greet me again.

'I fear my toilet has not been very successful, Fausta,' said I, 'for my slave Milo was too
much elated by the generous wines with which his companions had plied him, as a cordial after
the fatigues of the journey, to give me any of the benefit of his taste or assistance. I have
been my own artificer on this occasion, and you must therefore be gentle in your judgments.'

'I cannot say that your fashions are equally tasteful with those of our Palmyrenes, I must
confess. The love of the beautiful, the magnificent, and the luxurious, is our national fault,
Lucius; it betrays itself in every department of civil and social life, and not unfrequently
declines into a degrading effeminacy. If any thing ruin us, it will be this vice. I assure
you I was rather jesting than in earnest, when I bade you look to your toilet. When you shall
have seen some of our young nobles, you will find reason to be proud of your comparative simplicity.
I hear, however, that you are not now far behind us in Rome--nay, in many excesses, you go
greatly beyond us. We have never yet had a Vitellius, a Pollio, or a Gallienus. And may the
sands of the desert bury us a thousand fathoms deep, ere such monsters shall be bred and endured
in Palmyra!'

'I perceive,' said I, 'that your sometime residence in Rome has not taught you to love your
native country less. If but a small portion of the fire which I see burning in your eye warm
the hearts of the people, it will be no easy matter for any external foe to subdue you, however
vice and luxury may do it.'

'There are not many, I believe,' replied Fausta, 'of your or my sex in Palmyra, who would with
more alacrity lay down their lives for their country and our sweet and noble Queen, than I.
But believe me, Lucius, there are multitudes who would do it as soon. Zenobia will lead the
way to no battle-field where Fausta, girl though she be, will not follow. Remember what I say,
I pray you, if difficulty should ever again grow up--which the gods forefend!--between us and
Rome. But, truth to say, we are in more danger from ourselves than from Rome.'

We were now suddenly interrupted by the loud and cheerful voice of Gracchus, exclaiming, as
he approached us from the great hall of the palace, 'How now!--How now!--whom have we here?
Are my eyes and ears true to their report--Lucius Piso? It is he indeed. Thrice welcome to
Palmyra! May a visit from so good and great a house be an augury of good. You are quick indeed
upon the track of your letter. How have you sped by the way? I need not ask after your own
welfare, for I see it, but I am impatient to learn all that you can tell me of friends and
enemies in Rome. I dare say, all this has been once told to Fausta, but, as a penalty for arriving
while I was absent, it must be repeated for my special pleasure. But come, that can be done
while we sit at table; I see the supper waits.'

In this pleasant mood did the father of Fausta, and now, as you know, one of the chief pillars
of the province or kingdom--whichever it must be called--receive me. I was struck with the
fine union in his appearance and manner of courtly ease, and a noble Roman frankness. His head,
slightly bald, but cast in the truest mould of manly beauty, would have done honor to any of
his illustrious ancestors; and his figure was entirely worthy of that faultless crown. I confess
I experienced a pang of regret that one so fitted to sustain and adorn the greatness of his
parent country had chosen to cast his fortunes so far from the great centre and heart of the
Empire. After the first duties of the table had been gone through with, and my hunger--real
hunger--had been appeased by the various delicacies which my kind hostess urged upon me noways
unwilling to receive such tokens of regard, I took up the questions of Gracchus, and gave him
a full account of our social and political state in Rome, to all which Fausta too lent a greedy
ear, her fine face sparkling with the intelligence which beamed out from every feature. It
was easy to see how deep an interest she takes in matters to which her sex are usually so insensible.
It is indescribable, the imperial pride and lofty spirit of independence which at times sat
upon her brow and curled her lip. She seems to me made to command. She is indeed courteous
and kind, but you not with difficulty see that she is bold, aspiring and proud, beyond the
common measure of woman. Her beauty is of this character. It is severe, rather than in any
sense soft or feminine. Her features are those of her father, truly Roman in their outline,
and their combined expression goes to impress every beholder with the truth that Roman blood
alone, and that too of all the Gracchi, runs in her veins. Her form harmonizes perfectly with
the air and character of the face. It is indicative of great vigor and decision in every movement;
yet it is graceful, and of such proportions as would suit the most fastidious Greek. I am thus
minute in telling you how Fausta struck me, because I know the interest you and Lucilia both
take in her, and how you will desire to have from me as exact a picture as I can draw. Be relieved,
my dear friends, as to the state of my heart, nor indulge in either hopes or suspicions in
this direction. I assure you I am not yet a captive at the fair feet of Fausta, nor do I think
I shall be. But if such a thing should happen, depend upon my friendship to give you the earliest
intelligence of the event. Whoever shall obtain the heart of Fausta, will win one of which
a Caesar might be proud. But to return to our present interview and its event.

No sooner had I ended my account of the state of affairs at Rome, than Gracchus expressed,
in the strongest terms, his joy that we were so prosperous. 'It agrees,' said he, 'with all
that we have lately heard. Aurelian is in truth entitled to the praise which belongs to a reformer
of the state. The army has not been under such discipline since the days of Vespasian. He has
now, as we learn by the last arrival of news from the North, by the way of Antioch, nearly
completed the subjection of the Goths and Alemanni, and rumors are afloat of an unpleasant
nature, of an Eastern expedition. For this no ground occurs to me except, possibly, an attempt
upon Persia, for the rescue of Valerian, if yet he be living, or for the general vindication
of the honor of Rome against the disgraceful successes of the Great King. I cannot for one
moment believe that toward Palmyra any other policy will be adopted than that which has been
pursued for the last century and a half, and emphatically sanctioned, as you well know, by
both Gallienus and Claudius. Standing on the honorable footing, as nominally a part of the
empire of Rome, but in fact a sovereign and independent power, we enjoy all that we can desire
in the form of political privileges. Then for our commerce, it could not be more flourishing,
or conducted on more advantageous terms even to Rome itself. In one word, we are contented,
prosperous, and happy, and the crime of that man would be great indeed, who, from any motive
of personal ambition, or any policy of state, would disturb our existing relations of peace
and friendship with all the world.'

To this I replied: 'I most sincerely trust that no design, such as you hint at, exists in the
mind of Aurelian. I know him, and know him to be ambitious and imperious, as he is great in
resources and unequalled in military science, but withal he is a man of wisdom, and in the
main, of justice too. That he is a true lover of his country, I am sure; and that the glory
of that country is dearer to him than all other objects--that it rises in him almost to a species
of madness--this I know too; and it is from this quarter, if from any, that danger is to be
apprehended. He will have Rome to be all in all. His desire is that it should once more possess
the unity that it did under the Antonines. This idea, dwelt upon, may lead him into enterprises
from which, however defended on the ground of the empire's glory, will result in nothing but
discredit to himself and injury to the state. I too have heard the rumors of which you speak,
but I cannot give them one moment's credence; and I pray most fervently that, springing as
they do no one knows whence nor on what authority resting, they will not be permitted to have
the least effect upon the mind of the Queen, nor upon any of her advisers. She is now in reality
an independent sovereign, reigning over an immense empire, stretching from Egypt to the shores
of the Euxine, from the Mediterranean to the Euphrates, and she still stands upon the records
of the senate as a colleague--even as when Odenatus shared the throne with her--of the Emperor.
This is a great and a fortunate position. The gods forbid that any intemperance on the part
of the Palmyrenes should rouse the anger or the jealousy of the fierce Aurelian!'

Could I have said less than this? But I saw in the countenances of both, while I was speaking,
especially in the honest, expressive one of Fausta, that they could brook no hint of inferiority
or of dependence on the part of their country; so deep a place has the great Zenobia secured
for herself in the pride and most sacred affections of this people.

'I will not, with you, Piso,' said Gracchus, 'believe that the Emperor will do aught to break
up the present harmony. I will have faith in him; and I shall use all the influence that I
may possess in the affairs of the state to infuse a spirit of moderation into our acts, and
above all into our language; for one hasty word uttered in certain quarters may lead to the
ruin of kingdoms that have taken centuries to attain their growth. But this I say: let there
only come over here from the West the faintest whisper of any purpose on the part of Aurelian
to consider Zenobia as holding the same position in regard to Rome as Tetricus in Gaul, and
that moment a flame is kindled throughout Palmyra that nothing but blood can quench. This people,
as you well know, has been a free people from the earliest records of history, and they will
sink under the ruins of their capital and their country, ere they will bend to a foreign power.'

'That will they!--that will they, indeed!' cried Fausta; 'there is not a Palmyrene who, had
he two lives, would not give one for liberty, and the other for his good Queen. You do not
know Zenobia, Lucius, nor can you tell, therefore, how reasonable the affection is which binds
every heart to her as to a mother or a sister.'

'But enough of this for the present,' said Gracchus; 'let us leave the affairs of nations,
and ascend to those of private individuals--for I suppose your philosophy teaches you, as it
does me, that individual happiness is the object for which governments are instituted, and
that they are therefore less than this. Let us ascend, I say, from the policy of Rome and of
Aurelian, to the private affairs of our friend Lucius Piso; for your letter gives me the privilege
of asking you to tell us, in all frankness and love, what, beside the pleasure of seeing us,
brings you so far from Rome. It is, you hint, a business of a painful nature. Use me and Fausta,
as you would in Rome Portia and the good Lucilia, with the same freedom and the same assurance
of our friendship.'

'Do so, indeed,' added Fausta, with affectionate warmth, 'and feel that, in addressing us,
you are entrusting your thoughts to true and long-tried friends.'

'I have,' replied I, 'but little to communicate, but that little is great in its interest,
and demands immediate action; and touching what shall be most expedient to be done, I shall
want and shall ask your deliberate counsel. You are well aware, alas! too well aware, of the
cruel fate of my parent, the truly great Cneius Piso, whom to name is always a spring of strength
to my virtues. With the unhappy Valerian, to whom he clung to the last, resolved to die with
him, or suffer with him whatever the fates should decree, he passed into captivity; but of
too proud a spirit to endure the indignities which were heaped upon the Emperor, and which
were threatened him, he--so we have learned--destroyed himself. He found an opportunity, however,
before he thus nobly used his power, to exhort my poor brothers not at once, at least, to follow
his example, 'You are young,' said he, 'and have more strength than I, and the gods may interpose
and deliver you. Hope dwells with youth, as it dies with age. Do not despair. I feel that you
will one day return to Rome. For myself, I am a decayed trunk, at best, and it matters little
when I fall, or where I lie. One thing, at least, I cannot bear; it would destroy me if I did
not destroy myself. I am a Roman and a Piso, and the foot of a Persian shall never plant itself
upon my neck. I die.' My elder brother, thinking example a more powerful kind of precept than
words, no sooner was assured of the death of his father, than he too opened his veins, and
perished. And so we learned had Calpurnius done, and we were comparatively happy in the thought
that they had escaped by a voluntary death the shame of being used as footstools by the haughty
Sapor, and the princes of his court. But a rumor reached us a few days before I left Rome,
that Calpurnius is yet living. We learn, obscurely, that being favorably distinguished and
secretly favored by the son of Sapor, he was persuaded to live, and wait for the times to open
a way for his escape. You may imagine both my grief and my joy on this intelligence. The thought
that he should so long have lain in captivity and imprisonment, and no step have been taken
toward his rescue, has weighed upon me with a mountain weight of sorrow. Yet at the same time,
I have been supported by the hope that his deliverance may be effected, and that he may return
to Rome once more, to glad the eyes of the aged Portia. It is this hope which has brought me
to Palmyra, as perhaps the best point whence to set in motion the measures which it shall be
thought wisest to adopt. I shall rely much upon your counsel.' No sooner had I spoken thus,
than Fausta quickly exclaimed:

'O father, how easily, were the Queen now in Palmyra, might we obtain through her the means
of approaching the Persian King with some hope of a successful appeal to his compassion!--and
yet'--She hesitated and paused.

'I perceive,' said Gracchus, 'what it is that checks your speech. You feel that in this matter
Zenobia would have no power with the Persian monarch or court. The two nations are now, it
is true, upon friendly terms; but a deep hatred exists in the heart of Sapor toward Zenobia.
The successive defeats which he suffered, when Odenatus and his Queen took it upon them to
vindicate the honor of Rome, and revenge the foul indignities cast upon the unfortunate Valerian,
will never be forgotten; and policy only, not love or regard, keeps the peace between Persia
and Palmyra. Sapor fears the power of Zenobia, supported, as he knows she would be in case
of rupture, by the strength of Rome; and moreover, he is well aware that Palmyra serves as
a protecting wall between him and Rome, and that her existence as an independent power is vital
to the best interests of his kingdom. For these reasons harmony prevails, and in the event
of war between us and Rome, we might with certainty calculate upon Persia as an ally. Still
Sapor is an enemy at heart. His pride, humbled as it was by that disastrous rout, when his
whole camp and even his wives fell into the hands of the Royal Odenatus, will never recover
from the wound, and will prompt to acts of retaliation and revenge, rather than to any deed
of kindness. While his public policy is, and doubtless will continue to be, pacific, his private
feelings are, and ever will be, bitter. I see not how in this business we can rely with any
hope of advantage upon the interposition of the Queen. If your brother is ever rescued, it
must, I think, be achieved by private enterprise.'

'Your words,' said I, 'have pierced me through with grief, and dispelled in a moment the brightest
visions. All the way from Rome have I been cheered by the hope of what the Queen, at your solicitation,
would be able to attempt and accomplish in my behalf. But it is all over. I feel the truth
of what you have urged. I see it--I now see it--private enterprise can alone effect his deliverance,
and from this moment I devote myself to that work. If Rome leave her Emperor to die in captivity,
so will not I my brother. I will go myself to the den of this worse than barbarian king, and
bring thence the loved Calpurnius, or leave my own body there for that beast to batten on.
It is now indeed thirteen years since Calpurnius left me, a child in Rome, to join the Emperor
in that ill-fated expedition. But it is with the distinctness of a yesterday's vision that
he now stands before my eyes, as he then stood that day he parted from us, glittering in his
brilliant armor, and his face just as brilliant with the light of a great and trusting spirit.
As he turned from the last embraces of the weeping Portia, he seized me in his arms, who stood
jingling his sword against his iron greaves, and imprinting upon my cheek a kiss, bade me grow
a man at once, to take care of the household, while they were gone with the good Emperor to
fight the enemies of Rome in Asia. He was, as I remember him, of a quick and fiery temper,
but he was always gentle toward me, and has bound me to him forever,'

'The gods prosper you!' cried Fausta, 'as surely they will. It is a pious work to which you
put your hand, and you will succeed.'

'Do not, Fausta,' said Gracchus, 'lend the weight of your voice to urge our friend to measures
which may be rather rash than wise, and may end only in causing a greater evil than what already
exists. Prudence must govern us as well as affection. By venturing yourself at once into the
dominion of Persia, upon such an errand, it is scarcely less than certain that you would perish,
and without effecting your object. We ought to consider, too, I think, what the condition and
treatment of Calpurnius are, before too great a risk is incurred for his rescue. He has now,
we are to remember, been at the capital of the great king thirteen years. You have hinted that
he had been kindly regarded by the son of Sapor. Possibly his captivity amounts to no more
than a foreign residence--a sort of exile. Possibly he may, in this long series of years, have
become changed into a Persian. I understand your little lip, Fausta, and your indignant frown,
Lucius; but what I suggest is among things possible, it cannot be denied; and can you deny
it?--not so very unlikely, when you think what the feelings of one must have been to be so
wholly forgotten and abandoned by his native country, and that country, Rome, the mistress
of the world, who needed but to have stretched forth the half of her power to have broken for
ever the chains of his slavery, as well as of the thousands who with him have been left to
linger out their lives in bondage. If Calpurnius has been distinguished by the son of Sapor,
his lot, doubtless, has been greatly lightened, and he may now be living as a Persian prince.
My counsel is, therefore, that the truth in this regard be first obtained, before the life
of another son, and the only inheritor of so great a name, be put in jeopardy. But what is
the exact sum of what you have learned, and upon which we may rely, and from which reason and act?'

'Our knowledge,' I replied, 'is derived from a soldier, who, by a great and happy fortune,
escaped and reached his native Rome. He only knew what he saw when he was first a captive,
and afterward, by chance, had heard from others. He was, he said, taken to serve as a slave
about the palace of the King, and it was there that for a space he was an eye-witness to the
cruel and insulting usage of both Valerian and Calpurnius. That was but too true, he said,
which had been reported to us, that whenever the proud Sapor went forth to mount his horse,
the Emperor was brought, in the face of the whole court, and of the populace who crowded round,
to serve as his footstool. Clothed in the imperial purple, the unfortunate Valerian received
upon his neck the foot of Sapor, and bore him to his saddle. It was the same purpose that Calpurnius
was made to serve for the young prince Hormisdas. But, said the soldier, the prince pitied
the young and noble Roman, and would gladly, at the beginning, have spared him the indignity
put upon him by the stern command of his haughty and cruel father. He often found occasion
at these times, while standing with his foot upon his neck, to speak with Calpurnius, and to
express his regrets and his grief for his misfortunes, and promise redress, and more, if he
ever came to the throne. But the soldier was soon removed from the vicinity of the Royal palace,
and saw no more of either Valerian or Calpurnius. What came to his ears was, generally, that
while Valerian was retained exclusively for the use of Sapor, Calpurnius was after a time relinquished
as entirely into the hands of Hormisdas, in whose own palace he dwelt, but with what portion
of freedom, he knew not. That he was living at the time he escaped, he was certain. This, Gracchus,
is the sum of what we have heard; in addition only, that the Emperor sank under his misfortunes,
and that his skin, fashioned over some substance so as exactly to resemble the living man,
is preserved by Sapor, as a monument of his triumph over the legions of Rome.'

'It is a pitiful story,' said Fausta, as I ended: 'for a brave man it has been a fate worse
than death; but having survived the first shame, I fear me my father's thought will prove a
too true one, and that long absence, and indignation at neglect, and perhaps gratitude and
attachment to the prince, who seems to have protected him, will have weaned him from Rome.
So that we cannot suffer you, Lucius, to undertake so long and dangerous a journey upon so
doubtful an errand. But those can be found, bold and faithful, who for that ample reward with
which you could so easily enrich them, would venture even into the heart of Ecbatana itself,
and bring you back your brother alive, or advertise you of his apostasy or death.'

'What Fausta says is just,' observed Gracchus, 'and in few words prescribes your course. It
will not be a difficult thing, out of the multitudes of bold spirits who crowd the capital,
Greek, Roman, Syrian, and Arab, to find one who will do all that you could do, and I may add,
both more and better. You may find those who are familiar with the route, who know the customs
of Persia, who can speak its language, and are even at home in her capitals, and who would
be infinitely more capable than either you or I, or even Fausta, to manage to a happy issue
an enterprise like this. Let this then be our decision; and be it now our united care to find
the individual to whom we may commit this dear but perilous service. And now enough of this.
The city sleeps, and it were better that we slept with it. But first, my child, bring harmony
into our spirits by one of those wild, sad airs which you are accustomed to sing to me upon
the harp of the Jews. It will dispose Lucius to pleasant dreams.'

I added my importunities, and Fausta rising, moved to an open window, through which the moon
was now pouring a flood of silver light, and seating herself before the instrument which stood
there, first swept its strings with an easy and graceful hand.

'I wish,' said she, 'I could give you the song which I am going to sing in the language of
the Hebrews, for it agrees better, I think, with the sentiment and the character of the music,
than the softer accents of the Greek. But every thing is Greek now.'

So saying, she commenced with a prelude more sweetly and profoundly melancholy than even the
wailing of the night wind among the leafless trees of the forest. This was followed by--an
ode shall I call it?--or a hymn?--for it was not what we mean by a song. Nor was the music
like any other music I had ever heard, but much more full of passion; broken, wild, plaintive,
triumphant by turns, it stirred all the deepest feelings of the heart. It seemed to be the
language of one in captivity, who, refusing to sing one of the songs of his country for the
gratification of his conquerors, broke out into passionate strains of patriotism, in which
he exalted his desolated home to the Heavens, and prophesied in the boldest terms her ultimate
restoration to power and glory. The sentiment lost nothing coming to the ear clothed in the
rich music of Fausta's voice, which rose and sank, swelled and died away, or was full of tears
or joy, as agreed with the theme of the poet. She was herself the poet, and the captive, and
the Jew, so wholly did she abandon herself to the sway of the thoughts which she was expressing.
One idea alone, however, had possessed me while she sang--to which, the moment she paused,
I first gave utterance. 'And think you, Fausta,' said I, 'that while the captive Jew remembers
his country, the captive Roman will forget his? Never! Calpurnius, if he lives, lives a Roman.
For this I thank your song. Melancholy and sad in itself, it has bred joy in my soul. I shall
now sleep well.' So saying, we separated.

Thus was passed my first evening in Palmyra.

Letter III.

With what pleasure do I again sit down, dear Curtius and Lucilia, to tell you how I have passed
my time, and what I have been able to accomplish, since I last wrote; thrice happy that I have
to report of success rather than of defeat in that matter which I have undertaken. But first,
let me thank you for all the city gossip, with which you so greatly entertained me in your
joint epistle. Although I pass my hours and days in this beautiful capital as happily as I
could any where out of Rome, still my letters from home are a great addition to my enjoyment.
After rising from perusal of yours and my mother's, I was a new man. Let me beg you--which
indeed I need hardly do--to send each letter of mine, as you receive it, to Portia, and in
return receive and read those which I have written and shall continue to write to her. To you
I shall give a narrative of events; to her, I shall pour out sentiment and philosophy, as in
our conversation we are wont to do. I shall hope soon to have somewhat of interest to say of
the state of letters here, and of my interviews with distinguished men. So soon as the Queen
shall return from her excursion through some of her distant provinces, I shall call upon Gracchus
to fulfil his promise, and make me known to the great Longinus, now with the Queen absent.
From my intercourse with him I shall look to draw up long and full reports of much that shall
afford both entertainment and instruction to you all.

I have now passed several days in Palmyra, and have a mass of things to say. But instead of
giving you a confused report, I shall separate one thing from another, and set down each according
to the time and manner in which it happened. This is what I know you desire, and this is what
I shall do.

I cannot easily tell you how delicious was my slumber after that last day of fatiguing travel,
and that evening of to me the most exciting converse. I dreamed that night of Calpurnius rescued
and returned; and ever as he was present to my sleeping fancy, the music of Fausta's harp and
voice was floating near.

Hannibal was early at my door to warn me of the hour of the morning meal, Milo being still
under the influences of the evening's potation. I was shown to a different apartment from that
in which we had supped, but opening into it. It was a portico rather than a room, being on
two sides open to the shrubbery, with slender Ionic pillars of marble supporting the ceiling,
all joined together by the light interlacings of the most gorgeous creeping plants. Their odors
filled the air. A fountain threw up in the most graceful forms its clear water, and spread
all around an agreeable coolness. Standing at those points where flights of steps led down
to the walks and plots of grass and flowers, which wound about the palace, the eye wandered
over the rich scene of verdure and blossom which they presented, and then rested where it can
never rest too often or too long, upon the glittering shafts of the Temple of the Sun. This
morning prospect, from this single point, I thought was reward enough for my long voyage and
hot journey over the desert. It inspired more cheerful thoughts than the same scene as I had
seen it the evening before from the windows of my chamber. I could not but draw omens of good
from the universal smile that beamed upon me from the earth and the heavens. Fausta's little
hand suddenly placed within mine, and the cheerful greeting of her voice, awoke me from my
dreamy state.

'Your countenance shows that you have slept well, Lucius,' said she; 'it is bright as the morning
itself. Your dreams must have been favorable. Or else is it the wonder-working power of a Palmyrene
air that has wrought so with you since the last evening? Tell me, have you not slept as you
never slept in Rome?'

'I have slept well, indeed,' I replied, 'but I believe it was owing rather to your harp and
Jewish ode, than to any mysterious qualities of the air. Your music haunted the chambers of
my brain all night, and peopled them with the forms of those whom I love, and whose memory
it last evening recalled so vividly. Mostly I dreamed of Calpurnius, and of his return to Rome,
and with him came ever your image dimly seen hovering round, and the strains of your voice
and harp. These are to me auguries of good, even as if the voice of a god had spoken. I shall
once more embrace a brother--and what is even more, a Roman.'

'The gods grant it may be so!' replied Fausta: 'A prayer which I repeat,' cried Gracchus, as
he approached us from the hall, through which I had just passed. 'I have thought much of your
affair since I parted from you last evening, and am more than ever persuaded that we came to
a true decision touching the steps best to be taken. To-day I shall be much abroad, and shall
not forget to search in every direction for one who may be intrusted with this nice, and difficult,
and withal dangerous business. I can now think of no messenger who bids so fair to combine
all the qualities we most desire, as the Jew. I know but few of that tribe, and those are among
the rich. But then those rich are connected in various ways with the poor--for to a marvellous
extent they are one people---it is the same you know in Rome--and through them I think I may
succeed.'

'Now have you,' I quickly added, 'again poured light into my mind. Half our labor is over.
I know a Jew whose capacities could not be more fitting for this enterprise. I saw much of
him on board the vessel which took us first to the African coast, where, at Utica, it set him
on shore, bringing me farther on to Berytus. He is a true citizen of the world--knows all languages,
and all people, and all places. He has all the shrewdness of his race---their intelligence,
their enthusiasm, and, I may add, their courage. He is a traveller by profession, and a vender
of such things as any will buy, and will go wherever he may hope to make large gains wherewith
to do his share toward "building again the walls of Jerusalem," as he calls it. He has a home
in every city of the East. It was toward Palmyra that he was bending his way: and, as I now
remember, promised that he would see me here not many days after I should arrive, and have
the pleasure, as he trusted, to sell me more of his goods; for you must be told that I did
indeed traffic with him, however little it became a patrician of Rome. And here I have about
me, in a little casket, some rings which I purchased of him, having upon them heads of Zenobia
and Odenatus, resembling the originals to the life, as he assured me with much asseveration.
See, Fausta, here they are. Look now, and tell me if he has spoken in this instance the truth;
if so, it will be a ground for trusting him farther.'

'Beautiful!' exclaimed both Gracchus and Fausta. 'He has indeed dealt honestly with you. Nothing
can be more exact than these resemblances, and the workmanship is worthy the hand of Demetrius
the Greek.'

'Provincials,' said I, 'ever know the capital and its fashions better than citizens. Now never
till Isaac, my Jew friend, rehearsed to me the praises of Demetrius the jeweller, had I ever
heard his name, or aught concerning his skill, and here in the heart of Asia he seems a household
word.'

'It is so, indeed,' said Gracchus. 'I do not doubt that the fashionable artists of every kind
in Rome are better known to the followers of fashion in Palmyra than they are to the patricians
themselves. Wanting the real greatness of Rome, we try to surpass her in the trappings of greatness.
We are well represented by the frog of AEsop; happy, if our swelling pride do not destroy us.
But these rings--they are indeed of exquisite art. The head of Odenatus is truer to life, methinks,
than that of the Queen.'

'And how can poor stone and gold set out the divine beauty and grace of Zenobia!' cried Fausta.
'This is beautiful to you now, Lucius, but it will be so no longer when you shall have seen
her. Would that she were here! It seems as if the sun were gone from the heavens, when she
is absent from us on these long excursions among her distant subjects.'

'Till then, dear Fausta,' said I, 'deign to wear on that only finger which I see ungraced by
a ring, this head of your so much vaunted Queen; afterward wear it, if you will, not for her
sake, but mine.'

So saying, upon her finger which she held out to me--and which how beautiful it was I shall
not say--I attempted to pass the ring, but alas! it was too small, and would not, with all
the gentle force I dared to use, go on.

'Here is an omen, Fausta,' said I; 'the Queen cannot be forced upon your hand. I fear your
friendship is threatened.'

'Oh! never entertain any such apprehension,' interrupted Fausta. 'It is quite needless. Here
is plenty of room on this neighbor finger. It is quite right that Aurelian, you know, should
give way to Zenobia: so, away with the Emperor!' and she snapped the ring across the pavement
of the Portico--'and now, Lucius, invest me with that burning beauty.'

'And now do you think you deserve it? I marvel, Gracchus, at the boldness of these little girls.
Verily, they bid fair to mount up over our heads. But come, your finger: there--one cannot
but say it becomes you better than the fierce Aurelian. As for the deposed Emperor, he is henceforward
mine. Thus I re-instate him.' In saying which, I pursued and picked up the discarded ring,
and gave to it the most honored place upon my right hand.

Fausta now, first laughingly bidding me welcome to the ring, called us to the table, where
the breakfast, consisting of fruits in greater proportion than with us, awaited us. Much talk
now ensued concerning the city, its growth and numbers, power and probable destiny. I was satisfied
from what fell from each, that the most ambitious designs are entertained by both the court
and people, and that their wonderful successes have bred in them a real belief that they should
have nothing to fear from the valor or power of Rome, under any circumstances of collision.
When this was through, Gracchus, rising from his seat and pacing slowly up and down the portico,
spoke of my private affairs, and with great kindness went over again the whole ground. The
result was the same.

'Our way, then,' he said, 'is clear. Wait a few days for your fellow traveller, Isaac. If he
appears, well,--if not, we must then search the quarter of the Jews for one who may do as good
service perhaps. I now leave you, with a suggestion to Fausta that she should take it upon
her to drive you round the city, and into the suburbs. No one can perform the office of a guide
better than she.'

'If Fausta will take that trouble upon her,' I replied, 'it will give me----'

'A great deal of pleasure, you were going to say; so it will me. I am sure we shall enjoy it.
If I love any thing, it is to reveal to a proud Roman the glories of Palmyra. Take away from
a Roman that ineffable air which says "Behold embodied in me the majesty of Rome!" and there
remains a very agreeable person. But for those qualities of mind and manners which fit men
and women for society, the Roman men and women must yield to the Palmyrenes. So I think, who
have seen somewhat of both--and so think--gainsay my authorities if you have the courage--Longinus
and the Bishop of Antioch. I see that you are disturbed. No wonder. Longinus, though a philosopher,
is a man of the world, who sees through its ways as clearly as he does through the mysticism
of Plato, and that asks for good eyes; and for the bishop--there is not so finished a gentleman
in all the East. His appointments are not less exquisite than those of the highest noble either
of Antioch or Palmyra. If an umpire in any question of manners were to be chosen, it would be he.'

'As for the Greek,' I rejoined, 'I am predisposed to admit his superior claims. I will surrender
to him with alacrity my doubts both in manners and philosophy. For I hold there is a philosophy
in manners, nay, even in clothes, and that the highest bred intellect will on that very account
best perceive the nice distinctions and relations, in the exact perception and observance of
which the highest manners consist. Such an one may offend against the last device in costume--and
the last refinement in the recondite art of a bow--but he will eternally excel in all that
we mean by breeding. Your bishop I know nothing of, but your account of him strikes me not
very agreeably. These Christian bishops, methinks, are taking upon themselves too much. And
besides, if what I gathered of the theory of their religion from a passenger on board the Mediterranean
trader, be correct, they depart greatly from the severity of their principles, when they so
addict themselves to the practices of courts and of the rich. I received from this Christian
a beautiful idea of his faith, and only lamented that our companionship was broken off before
I had had time fully to comprehend all he had to say. The character of this man, and his very
countenance, seemed as arguments to support the strict opinions which he advanced. This bishop,
I think, can scarcely do his faith the same service.'

'I know him not much,' said Fausta, 'and of his faith, nothing. He has great power over the
Princess Julia, and it would not much amaze me if, by and by, she declared herself a Christian.
It is incredible how that superstition spreads. But here is our carriage. Come, let us forth.'

So, breaking off our talk, we betook ourselves to the carriage. How shall I find language,
my Curtius, to set before you with the vividness of the reality, or with any approach to it,
the pictures which this drive through and around Palmyra caused to pass successively before
me? You know indeed, generally, what the city is, from the reports of former travellers, especially
from the late book of Spurius, about which and its speculations much was said a little while
since. But let me tell you, a more one-sided, one-eyed, malignant observer never thrust himself
upon the hospitalities of a free, open-hearted people, than that same Spurius, poet and bibliopole.
His very name is an offence to the Palmyrenes, who, whatever national faults they may have,
do not deserve the deep disgrace of being brought before the world in the pages of so poor
a thing as the said Ventidius Spurius. Though it will not be my province to treat as an author
of the condition, policy, and prospects of Palmyra, yet to you and my friends I shall lay myself
open with the utmost freedom, and shall refrain from no statement or opinion that shall possess,
or seem to do so, truth or importance.

The horses springing from under the whip of the charioteer, soon bore us from the great entrance
of the palace into the midst of the throng that crowded the streets. The streets, seen now
under the advantages of a warm morning sun adding a beauty of its own to whatever it glanced
upon, showed much more brilliantly than ours of Rome. There is, in the first place, a more
general sumptuousness in equipage and dress, very striking to the eye of a Roman. Not perhaps
that more wealth is displayed, but the forms and the colors, through which it displays itself,
are more various, more tasteful, more gorgeous. Nothing can exceed, nothing equals, it is said,
any where in the world, the state of the Queen and her court; and this infects, if I may use
so harsh a word, the whole city. So that, though with far less of real substantial riches than
we have, their extravagance and luxury are equal, and their taste far before us. Then every
thing wears a newer, fresher look than in Rome. The buildings of the republic, which many are
so desirous to preserve, and whole streets even of ante-Augustan architecture, tend to spread
around here and there in Rome a gloom--to me full of beauty and poetry--but still gloom. Here
all is bright and gay. The buildings of marble--the streets paved and clean--frequent fountains
of water throwing up their foaming jets, and shedding around a delicious coolness--temples,
and palaces of the nobles, or of wealthy Palmyrene merchants--altogether present a more brilliant
assemblage of objects than I suppose any other city can boast. Then conceive, poured through
these long lines of beautiful edifices, among these temples and fountains, a population drawn
from every country of the far East, arrayed in every variety of the most showy and fanciful
costume; with the singular animals, rarely seen in our streets, but here met at every turn--elephants,
camels, and dromedaries, to say nothing of the Arabian horses, with their jewelled housings,
with every now and then a troop of the Queen's cavalry, moving along, to the sound of their
clanging trumpets--conceive, I say, this ceaseless tide of various animal life poured along
among the proud piles, and choking the ways, and you will have some faint glimpse of the strange
and imposing reality.

Fausta was in raptures at my transports, and in her pleasant but deep-meaning way, boasted
much over the great capital of the world. So we rode along, slowly, because of the crowded
state of the streets, and on account of my desire to observe the manners and ways of the people--their
shops, which glittered with every rare work of art--and the devices, so similar in all places
of trade, by which the seller attracts the buyer. I was engrossed by objects of this sort,
when Fausta's voice drew my attention another way.

'Now,' said she, 'prepare yourself for the glory of Palmyra; look when we shall suddenly turn
round the next corner, on the left, and see what you shall see.'

The chariot soon whirled round the indicated corner, and we found ourselves in full view of
the Temple of the Sun, so famous throughout the world. Upon a vast platform of marble, itself
decorated with endless lines of columns--elsewhere of beauty and size sufficient for the principal
building, but here a mere appendage--stood in solitary magnificence this peerless work of art.
All I could do was, and the act was involuntary, to call upon the charioteer to rein up his
horses and let me quietly gaze. In this Fausta, nothing unwilling, indulged me. Then, when
satisfied with this the first point of view, we wound slowly round the spacious square upon
which it stands, observing it well in all directions, and taking my fill of that exalted but
nameless pleasure which flows in upon the soul from the contemplation of perfect excellence.

'This is, if I err not, Fausta, the work of a Greek artist.'

'It is,' said she: 'here both Romans and Palmyrenes must acknowledge their inferiority, and
indeed all other people. In every city of the world, I believe, all the great works of art
are the offspring of Grecian genius and Grecian taste. Truly, a wonderful people! In this very
city, our artists--our men of letters--even the first ministers of state--all are Greeks. But
come, let us move on to the Long Portico, an edifice which will astonish you yet more than
even the Temple of the Sun, through your having heard of it so much less. We shall reach it
in about half a Roman mile.'

This space was soon passed, and the Portico stood revealed with its interminable ranges of
Corinthian columns, and the busy multitudes winding among them, and, pursuing their various
avocations, for which this building offers a common and convenient ground. Here the merchants
assemble and meet each other. Here various articles of more than common rarity are brought
and exhibited for sale. Here the mountebanks resort, and entertain the idle and lovers of amusement
with their fantastic tricks. And here strangers from all parts of the world may be seen walking
to and fro, observing the customs of the place, and regaling themselves at the brilliant rooms,
furnished with every luxury, which are opened for their use, or else at the public baths which
are found in the immediate neighborhood. The Portico does not, like the Temple, stand upon
an elevated platform, but more upon a level with the streets. Its greatness is derived from
its extreme length, and its exquisitely-perfect designs and workmanship, as seen in the graceful
fluted columns and the rich entablature running round the whole. The life and achievements
of Alexander are sculptured upon the frieze; the artist--a Greek also--having been allowed
to choose his own theme.

'Fausta,' said I, 'my soul is steeped in beauty. It will be to no purpose to show me more now.
I am like one who has eaten too much--forgive the figure--delicacies are lost upon him.'

'I cannot release you yet,' cried Fausta; 'a little farther on, and you may see the palace
of our great Queen; give me your patience to that point, and I will then relieve you by a little
excursion through the suburbs, where your eye may repose upon a rural beauty as satisfying
as this of the city. You must see the palace. There!--we are already in sight of it.'

It rose upon us, so vast is it, and of so many parts, like a city within a city. A fit dwelling
for so great, so good, and so beautiful a woman. Of this you will find a careful and true account,
with drawings, which greatly help the imagination, in the otherwise vile book of the traducer
Spurius. To that I refer you, and so refrain from all description.

We now left the city, and wound at our leisure among the shady avenues, the noble country retreats,
the public gardens, the groves and woods which encompass the walls, and stretch away far beyond
the sight, into the interior. Returning, we passed through the arches of the vast aqueduct
which pours into the city a river of the purest water. This is the most striking object, and
noblest work of art, without the walls.

When we had passed in this way nearly the whole day, we at length re-entered the city by the
Persian Gate, on the eastern side,

'Now, Fausta,' said I, 'having given so much of the day to pleasure, I must give the rest,
not to pain, but to duty. I will seek out and find, if I can, Demetrius, brother to Demetrius
of Rome. From him I can learn, it seems probable, concerning the movements of Isaac.'

'You will find the shop of Demetrius in the very heart of the city, midway between the Persian
and Roman gates. Farewell, for a time, and may the gods prosper you!'

I was not long in making my way to the shop of the Greek. I found the skilful Demetrius busily
engaged in putting the last polish upon a small silver statue of a flying Mercury. He looked
up as I entered, and saluting me in Greek, invited me to look at his works. I could not for
a long time take off my eyes from the figure upon which he was working, and expressed my admiration.

'Ah, it is very well, I think, said he, 'but it is nothing compared with the work of my brother
at Rome. You know him doubtless?'

'Indeed I do not, I am obliged to say.'

'What!--a Roman, as I perceive, and a patrician also, and not know Demetrius the goldsmith?--he
who was the favorite of Valerian, and Gallienus, and Claudius, and now of Aurelian? There is
no hand like that of Demetrius the elder. These, sir, are mere scratches, to his divine touch.
These are dolls, compared with the living and breathing gold as it leaves his chisel. Sir,
it is saying nothing beyond belief, when I say, that many a statue like this, of his, is worth
more than many a living form that we see in and out of the shop. Forgive me, but I must say
I would rather possess one of his images of Venus or Apollo, than a live Roman--though he be
a patrician too.'

'You are complimentary,' I said: 'but I can believe you. When I return to Rome, I shall seek
out your brother, and make myself acquainted with his genius. I have heretofore heard of him
chiefly through a travelling Jew, whom I fell in with on the way hither--Isaac, as he is called.'

'Ah ha!--Isaac of Rome. I know him well,' he replied. 'He is a good man--that is, he is good
for one of that tribe. I look for him every day. A letter from Rome informs me that he is on
his way. It is a pleasant thing to see Isaac. I wonder what curiosities he brings from the
hand of my brother. He will be welcome. I trust he brings some heads of our late king and present
queen, from drawings which I made and transmitted. I am impatient to see them. Saw you anything
of this sort about him?'

'Truly I did, and if by some ill chance I have not left them behind me, in my preparations
for a morning excursion, I can show you what you will like to see. Ah! here it is: in this
small casket I have, I presume, unless Isaac shall have deceived me--but of which you will
be a perfect judge--some of your brother's art. Look, here are rings with heads of your king
and queen, such as you have just spoken of. Are they genuine?'

'No instrument but that which is guided by the hand of the elder Demetrius ever did this work,'
said he, slowly drawing out his words, as he closely scrutinized the ring. 'The gold embossment
might indeed have been done by another, but not these heads, so true to the life, and of an
art so far beyond any ability of mine, that I am tempted sometimes to think that he is in league
with Vulcan. Gods! how that mouth of the Queen speaks! Do we not hear it? Ah, Roman, give me
the skill of Demetrius the elder, and I would spit upon all the power of Aurelian.'

'You Greeks are a singular people. I believe that the idea of beauty is to you food and clothing,
and shelter and drink, more than all riches and all power: dying on a desert island, a fragment
of Phidias would be dearer to you than a cargo of food.'

'That's a pretty conceit enough,' said he, 'and something near the truth, as must be confessed.'

As we were thus idly discoursing, we became suddenly conscious of an unusual commotion in the
street. The populace began to move quickly by in crowds, and vehicles of all sorts came pouring
along as if in expectation of something they were eager to see.

'What's all this?--what's all this?' said Demetrius, leaving his work, which he had resumed,
and running to the door of his shop: 'what's the matter, friend?' addressing a citizen hurrying
by: 'Is Aurelian at the gates, that you are posting along in such confusion?'

'Not Aurelian,' replied the other, 'but Aurelian's mistress. The Queen is coming. Clouds of
dust on the skirts of the plain show that she is advancing toward the city.'

'Now, Roman, if thou wouldst see a sight, be advised and follow me. We will mount the roof
of yonder market, whence we shall win a prospect such as no eye can have seen that has not
gazed from the same point. It is where I go to refresh my dulled senses, after the day's hard
toil.'

So saying, and pausing a moment only to give some necessary directions to the pupils, who were
stationed at their tasks throughout the long apartment, telling them to wait for the show till
it should pass by the shop, and not think to imitate their master in all his ways--saying these
things in a half earnest and half playful manner--we crossed the street, and soon reached the
level roof, well protected by a marble breastwork, of the building he had pointed out.

'We are here just at the right moment,' said he: 'come quickly to this corner and secure a
seat, for you see the people are already thronging after us. There! can Elysium offer a more
perfect scene? And look, how inspiring is the view of these two multitudes moving toward each
other, in the spirit of friendship! How the city opens her arms to embrace her Queen!'

At the distance of about a mile from the walls, we now saw the party of the Queen, escorted
by a large body of horse: and, approaching them from the city, apparently its whole population,
some on foot, some on horse, some in carriages of every description. The plain was filled with
life. The sun shooting his beams over the whole, and reflected from the spears and corslets
of the cavalry, and the gilding and polished work of chariots and harness, caused the scene
to sparkle as if strewed with diamonds. It was a fair sight. But fairer than all was it to
witness, as I did, the hearty enthusiasm of the people, and even of the children, toward their
lovely Queen. Tears of joy even I could see falling from many eyes, that she was returning
to them again. As soon as the near approach of Zenobia to the walls began to conceal her and
her escort, then we again changed our position, and returned to the steps of the shop of Demetrius,
as the Queen would pass directly by them, on her way to the palace.

We had been here not many minutes, before the shouts of the people, and the braying of martial
music, and the confused sound of an approaching multitude, showed that the Queen was near.
Troops of horse, variously caparisoned, each more brilliantly as it seemed than another, preceded
a train of sumptuary elephants and camels, these too richly dressed, but heavily loaded. Then
came the body-guard of the Queen, in armor of complete steel--and then the chariot of Zenobia,
drawn by milk-white Arabians. So soon as she appeared, the air resounded with the acclamations
of the countless multitudes. Every cry of loyalty and affection was heard from ten thousand
mouths, making a music such as filled the heart almost to breaking.

'Long live the great Zenobia!' went up to the heavens. 'The blessing of all the gods on our
good Queen!'--'Health and happiness to the mother of her people!'--'Death and destruction to
her enemies!'--these, and cries of the same kind, came from the people, not as a mere lip-service,
but evidently, from the tone in which they were uttered, prompted by real sentiments of love,
such as it seems to me never before can have existed toward a supreme and absolute prince.

It was to me a moment inexpressibly interesting. I could not have asked for more, than for
the first time to see this great woman just as I now saw her. I cannot, at this time, even
speak of her beauty, and the imposing yet sweet dignity of her manner; for it was with me,
as I suppose it was with all--the diviner beauty of the emotions and sentiments which were
working at her heart and shone out in the expressive language of her countenance, took away
all power of narrowly scanning complexion, feature and form. Her look was full of love for
her people. She regarded them as if they were her children. She bent herself fondly toward
them, as if nothing but the restraints of form withheld her from throwing herself into their
arms. This was the beauty which filled and agitated me. I was more than satisfied.

'And who,' said I to Demetrius, 'is that beautiful being, but of a sad and thoughtful countenance,
who sits at the side of the Queen?'

'That,' he replied, 'is the Princess Julia; a true descendant of her great mother; and the
gods grant that she, rather than either of her brothers, may succeed to the sovereign power.'

'She looks indeed,' said I, 'worthy to reign--over hearts at least, if not over nations. Those
in the next chariot are, I suppose, the young Caesars, as I hear they are called--about as
promising, to judge by the form and face, as some of our Roman brood of the same name. I need
not ask whose head that is in the carriage next succeeding; it can belong to no other in Palmyra
than the great Longinus. What a divine repose breathes over that noble countenance! What a
clear and far-sighted spirit looks out of those eyes! But--gods of Rome and of the world!--who
sits beside him? Whose dark soul is lodged in that fearful tenement?--fearful and yet beautiful,
as would be a statue of ebony!'

'Know you not him? Know you not the Egyptian Zabdas?--the mirror of accomplished knighthood--the
pillar of the state--the Aurelian of the East? Ah! far may you go to find two such men as those--of
gifts so diverse, and power so great--sitting together like brothers. It all shows the greater
power of Zenobia, who can tame the roughest and most ambitious spirits to her uses. Who is
like Zenobia?'

'So ends, it seems to me,' I replied,' every sentence of every Palmyrene--"Who is like Zenobia?"'

'Well, Roman,' said he, 'it is a good ending; may there never be a worse. Happy were it for
mankind, if kings and queens were all like her. She rules to make others happy--not to rule.
She conceives herself to be an instrument of government, not its end. Many is the time, that,
standing in her private closet, with my cases of rare jewels, or with some pretty fancy of
mine in the way of statue or vase, I have heard the wisdom of Aristotle dropping in the honey
of Plato's Greek from her divine lips.'

'You are all going mad with love,' said I; 'I begin to tremble for myself as a Roman. I must
depart while I am yet safe. But see! the crowd and the show are vanished. Let me hear of the
earliest return of Isaac, and the gods prosper you! I am at the house of Gracchus, opposite
the Temple of Justice.'

I found, on reaching the palace, Fausta and Gracchus, overjoyed at the safe and happy return
of the Queen. Fausta, too, as the Queen was passing by, she standing by one of the pillars
of the great entrance, had obtained a smile of recognition, and a wave of the hand from her
great friend, as I may justly term her, and nothing could exceed the spirits she was in.

'How glad I am, Lucius,' said she, 'that you have seen her so soon, and more than all, that
you saw her just as you did, in the very heart of the people. I do not believe you ever saw
Aurelian so received in Rome--Claudius perhaps--but not again Galliemis, or his severe but
weak father. But what have you done--which is to all of us a more immediately interesting subject--what
have you done for Calpurnius? Do you learn any thing of Isaac?'

'I have the best news,' I replied, 'possible in the case. Isaac will be in Palmyra--perhaps
this very night; but certainly within a few days, if the gods spare his life. Demetrius is
to give me the earliest intelligence of his arrival.'

'Now then let us,' said Fausta, 'to the table, which need not offer the delicacies of Vitellius,
to insure a favorable reception from appetites sharpened as ours have been by the day's motion
and excitement.'

Gracchus, throwing down a manuscript he had been attentively perusing, now joined us.

Leaving untold all the good things which were said, especially by Gracchus, while I and Fausta,
more terrestrially given, applied ourselves to the agreeable task set before us, I hasten to
tell you of my interview with the Jew, and of its issue. For no sooner had evening set in,
and Fausta, seated at her harp, was again soothing the soul with her sweet and wild strains,
than a messenger was announced from the Greek Demetrius, desiring to have communication with
me. Divining at once his errand, I sought him in the ante-room, where, learning from him that
Isaac was arrived, and that if I would see him I must seek him on the moment, as he was but
for one night in the city, intending in the morning to start for Ctesiphon, I bade him lead
on, and I would follow, first calling Milo to accompany me.

'To what part of the city do we go?' said I, addressing the messenger of Demetrius.

'To the quarter of the Jews, near the Gate of the Desert,' he replied. 'Be not apprehensive
of danger,' he added; 'the city is as safe by night as by day. This we owe to the great Queen.'

'Take me where thou wilt, I fear nothing,' said I.

'But methinks, master mine,' said Milo, 'seeing that we know not the ways of this outlandish
capital, nor even who this doubtless respectable person is who invites us to this enterprise,
it were more discreet to add Hannibal to our numbers. Permit me, and I will invoke the presence
of the Ethiopian.'

'No, Milo,' I replied, 'in thy valor I am ready to put my trust. Thy courage is tried courage,
and if need be, I doubt not thou wilt not hesitate to die sword in hand.'

'Such sort of confidence I do by no means covet: I would rather that thou shouldst place it
somewhere else. It is true that when I was in the service of the most noble Gallienus--'

'Well, we will spare thee the trouble of that story. I believe I do thy virtues no injustice.
Moreover, the less talk, the more speed.'

Saying this, in order that I might be left to my own thoughts for a space, before I should
meet the Jew, we then pressed on, threading our way through a maze of streets, where recollection
of place and of direction was soon and altogether lost. The streets now became narrow, filthy,
darker and darker, crooked and involved. They were still noisy with the loud voices of the
inhabitants of the dwellings, calling to each other, quarrelling or laughing, with the rattling
of vehicles returning home after the labors of the day, and with all that variety of deafening
sounds which fall upon the ear where great numbers of a poor and degraded population are crowded
together into confined quarters. Suddenly leaving what seemed to be a sort of principal street,
our guide turned down into an obscure lane, which, though extremely narrow and crooked, was
better built than the streets we had just left. Stopping now before what seemed a long and
low white wall, our guide, descending a few steps, brought us to the principal entrance of
the dwelling, for such we found it to be. Applying a stone to the door, to arouse those who
might be within, we were immediately answered in a voice which I at once recognised as that
of Isaac:

'Break not in the door,' shouted he, 'with your unmannerly blows. Who are you, that one must
live standing with his hand on the latch of the door? Wait say, till I can have time to walk
the length of the room. What can the Gentiles of Palmyra want of Isaac of Rome at this time
of night?' So muttering, he unbarred and opened the door.

'Come in, come in: the house of Isaac is but a poor house of a poor Jew, but it has a welcome
for all. Come in--come--. But, father Abraham! whom have we here? The most noble Piso! A patrician
of Rome in the hovel of a poverty-pinched Jew! That would sound well upon the exchange. It
may be of account. But what am I saying? Welcome to Palmyra, most noble Piso, for Palmyra is
one of my homes; at Rome, and at Antioch, and Alexandria, and Ctesiphon, and Carthage--it is
the same to Isaac. Pray seat yourselves; upon this chair thou wilt find a secure seat, though
it promises not so much, and here upon my dromedary's furniture is another. So, now we are
well. Would that I had that flask of soft Palmyrene, which but now I sent--'

'Take no trouble for our sakes,' I exclaimed, cordially saluting him; 'I am just now come from
the table of Gracchus. I have matters of more moment to discuss than either meats or wines.'

'But, noble master, hast thou ever brought to thy lips this same soft Palmyrene? The name indicates
some delicious juice.'

'Peace, Milo, or thou goest home alone, as thou best canst.'

'Roman,' began Isaac,' I can think only of two reasons that can have brought thee to my poor
abode so soon; the one is to furnish thyself with more of that jewelry which gave thee so much
delight, and the other to discourse with me concerning the faith of Moses. Much as I love a
bargain, I hope it is for the last that thou art come; for I would fain see thee in a better
way than thou art, or than thou wouldst be if that smooth Probus should gain thy ear. Heed
not the wily Nazarene! I cannot deny him a good heart, after what I saw of him in Carthage.
But who is he, to take it upon him to sit in judgment upon the faith of two thousand years?
Would that I could once see him in the grasp of Simon Ben Gorah! How would his heresy wither
and die before the learning of that son of God. Roman, heed him not! Let me take thee to Simon,
that thou mayst once in thy life hear the words of wisdom.'

'Not now, not now, good Isaac. Whenever I apostatize from the faith of the founders of my nation,
and deny the gods who for more than a thousand years have stood guardians over Rome, I will
not refuse to weigh whatever the Jew has to offer in behalf of his ancient creed. But I come
to thee now neither to buy of thee, nor to learn truth of thee, but to seek aid in a matter
that lies near my heart.'

'Ha! thy heathen god Cupid has ensnared thee! Well, well, the young must be humored, and men
must marry. It was the counsel of my father, whose beard came lower than his girdle, and than
whom the son of Sirach had not more wisdom, "Meddle not nor make in the loves of others. God
only knoweth the heart. And how knowest thou that, in contriving happiness, thou shalt not
engender sorrow?" Howbeit, in many things have I departed from the counsel of that venerable
man. Alas for it! Had my feet taken hold, in all their goings, of his steps, I had not now
for my only companion my fleet-footed dromedary, and for my only wealth this load of gilded toys,'

'Neither is it,' I rejoined, 'for any love-sickness that I am come, seeking some healing or
inflaming drug, but upon a matter of somewhat more moment. Listen to me, while I unfold.'

So saying, I told all that you already so well know in as few words as I could, but leaving
out no argument by which I could hope to work upon either the cupidity, the benevolence, or
the patriotism of the Jew. He, with his hands folded under his beard, listened without once
interrupting me, but with an expression of countenance so stolid, that when I had ended I could
guess no better than when I began as to the part he would act.

After a pause of some length, he slowly began, discoursing rather with himself than with me:
'A large enterprise--and to be largely considered. The way is long--seven hundred Roman miles
at the least--and among little other than savage tribes, save here and there a desert, where
the sands, as is reported, rise and fall like the sea. How can an old man like me encounter
such labor and peril? These unbelieving heathen think not so much of the life of a Jew as of
a dog. Gentile, why goest thou not thyself?'

'Thy skill, Isaac, and knowledge of men and countries, are more than mine, and will stand thee
in good stead. Death were the certain issue, were I to venture upon this expedition, and then
my brother's fate were sealed forever.'

'I seem to thee, Roman Piso, to be a lone man in a wide world, who may live or die, and there
be none to know or care how it is. It is verily much so. Yet I was not always alone. Children
once leaped at the sound of my voice, and clung in sport to my garment. They are in Abraham's
bosom,--better than here. Yet, Roman, I am not alone. The God of Israel is with me, and while
it is him I serve, life is not without value. I trust in the coming restoration of Jerusalem:
for that I toil, and for that I am ready to die. But why should my bones whiten the desert,
or my mangled carcass swing upon a Persian gibbet? Will that be to die for my country?'

'I can enrich thee for thy services, Jew, and thou sayest that it is for wealth, that it may
be poured into the general coffers of thy tribe, that thou traversest the globe. Name thy sum,
and so it be not beyond reason, I will be bound to pay thee in good Roman coin.'

'This is to be thought of. Doubtless thou wouldst reward me well. But consider how large this
sum must be. I fear me thou wilt shrink from the payment of it, for a Roman noble loves not
money less than a poor Jew. My trade in Ctesiphon I lose. That must be made up. My faithful
dromedary will be worn out by the long journey: that too must be made good. My plan will require
an attendant slave and camel: then there, are the dangers of the way--the risk of life in the
city of the Great King--and, if it be not cut off, the expenses of it. These, to Isaac, are
not great, but I may be kept there long.'

'But thou wilt abate somewhat of the sum thou hast determined upon, out of love to thy kind.
Is the pleasure of doing a good deed nothing to thee?'

'Not a jot will I abate from a just sum--not a jot.' And why should I? And thou art not in
earnest to ask the abatement of a feather's weight. What doth the Jew owe the Roman? What hath
the Roman done to the Jew? He hath laid waste his country with fire and sword. Her towns and
villages he hath levelled with the ground. The holy Jerusalem he hath spoiled and defiled,
and then driven the plough over its ruins. My people are scattered abroad among all nations--subject
every where to persecution and death. This thou knowest is what the Roman hath done. And what
then owe I, a Jew--a Jew--to the Roman? I bear thee, Piso, no ill will; nay, I love thee; but
wert thou Rome, and this wheaten straw a dagger, it should find thy heart! Nay, start not;
I would not hurt a hair of thy head. But tell me now if thou agreest to my terms: one gold
talent of Jerusalem if I return alive with or without thy brother, and if I perish, two, to
be paid as I shall direct.'

'Most heartily, Isaac, do I agree to them, and bless thee more than words can tell, besides.
Bring back my brother alive, and whatsoever thou shalt desire more, shall be freely thine.'

'I am content. To-morrow then I turn my back upon Ctesiphon and Palmyra, and make for Ecbatana.
Of my progress thou shalt learn. Of success I am sure--that is, if thy brother hearken to the
invitation.

Then giving such instructions as might be necessary on my part, we separated.

Letter IV.

If the gods, dear Marcus and Lucilia, came down to dwell upon earth, they could not but choose
Palmyra for their seat, both on account of the general beauty of the city and its surrounding
plains, and the exceeding sweetness and serenity of its climate. It is a joy here only to sit
still and live. The air, always loaded with perfume, seems to convey essential nutriment to
those who breathe it; and its hue, especially when a morning or evening sun shines through
it, is of that golden cast, which, as poets feign, bathes the tops of Olympus. Never do we
tremble here before blasts like those which from the Appenines sweep along the plains and cities
of the Italian coast. No extremes of either heat or cold are experienced in this happy spot.
In winter, airs, which in other places equally far to the north would come bearing with them
an icy coldness, are here tempered by the vast deserts of sand which stretch away in every
direction, and which it is said never wholly lose the heat treasured up during the fierce reign
of the summer sun. And in summer, the winds which as they pass over the deserts are indeed
like the breath of a furnace, long before they reach the city change to a cool and refreshing
breeze by traversing as they do the vast tracts of cultivated ground, which, as I have already
told you, surround the capital to a very great extent on every side. Palmyra is the very heaven
of the body. Every sense is fed to the full with that which it chiefly covets.

But when I add to this, that its unrivalled position, in respect to a great inland traffic,
has poured into the lap of its inhabitants a sudden and boundless flood of wealth, making every
merchant a prince, you will truly suppose, that however heartily I extol it for its outward
beauties, and all the appliances of luxury, I do not conceive it very favorable in its influences
upon the character of its population. Palmyrenes, charming as they are, are not Romans. They
are enervated by riches, and the luxurious sensual indulgences which they bring along by necessity
in their train--all their evil power being here increased by the voluptuous softness of the
climate. I do not say that all are so. All Rome cannot furnish a woman more truly Roman than
Fausta, nor a man more worthy that name than Gracchus. It is of the younger portion of the
inhabitants I now speak. These are without exception effeminate. They love their country, and
their great queen, but they are not a defence upon which in time of need to rely. Neither do
I deny them courage. They want something more vital still--bodily strength and martial training.
Were it not for this, I should almost fear for the issue of any encounter between Rome and
Palmyra. But as it is, notwithstanding the great achievements of Odenatus and Zenobia, I cannot
but deem the glory of this state to have risen to its highest point, and even to have passed
it. You may think me to be hasty in forming this opinion, but I am persuaded you will agree
with me when you shall have seen more at length the grounds upon which I rest it, as they are
laid down in my last letter to Portia.

But I did not mean to say these things when I sat down to my tablets, but rather to tell you
of myself, and what I have seen and done since I last wrote. I have experienced and enjoyed
much. How indeed could it be otherwise, in the house of Gracchus, and with Gracchus and Fausta
for my companions? Many are the excursions we have together taken into the country, to the
neighboring hills whence the city derives its ample supply of water, and even to the very borders
of the desert. I have thus seen much of this people, of their pursuits, and modes of life,
and I have found that whether they have been of the original Palmyrene population--Persian
or Parthian emigrants--Jews, Arabians, or even Romans--they agree in one thing, love of their
queen, and in a determination to defend her and her capital to the last extremity, whether
against the encroachments of Persia or Rome, Independence is their watchword. They have already
shown, in a manner the most unequivocal, and to themselves eternally honorable, that they will
not be the slaves of Sapor, nor dependents upon his power. And in that they have given at the
same time the clearest proof of their kindly feeling toward us, and of their earnest desire
to live at peace with us. I truly hope that no extravagances on the part of the Queen, or her
too-ambitious advisers, will endanger the existing tranquillity; yet from a late occurrence
of which I was myself a witness among other excited thousands, I am filled with apprehensions.

That to which I allude, happened at the great amphitheatre, during an exhibition of games given
by Zenobia on the occasion of her return, in which the Palmyrenes, especially those of Roman
descent, take great delight. I care, as you know, nothing for them, nor only that, abhor them
for their power to imbrute the people accustomed to their spectacles more and more. In this
instance I was persuaded by Fausta and Gracchus to attend, as I should see both the Queen and
her subjects under favorable circumstances to obtain new knowledge of their characters; and
I am not sorry to have been there.

The show could boast all the magnificence of Rome. Nothing could exceed the excitement and
tumult of the city. Its whole population was abroad to partake of the general joy. Early in
the day the streets began to be thronged with the multitudes who were either pouring along
toward the theatre, to secure in season the best seats, or with eager curiosity pressing after
the cages of wild animals drawn by elephants or camels toward the place of combat and slaughter.
As a part of this throng, I found myself, seated between Gracchus and Fausta, in their most
sumptuous chariot, themselves arrayed in their most sumptuous attire. Our horses could scarcely
do more than walk, and were frequently obliged to stand still, owing to the crowds of men on
horse, on foot, and in vehicles of every sort, which filled the streets. The roaring of the
imprisoned animals, the loud voices of their keepers, and of the drivers of the cumbrous wagons
which held them, the neighing, or screaming I might say, of the affrighted horses every now
and then brought into immediate contact with the wild beasts of the forests, lions, tigers
or leopards, made a scene of confusion, the very counterpart of what we have so often witnessed
in Rome, which always pains more than it pleases me, and which I now describe at all, only
that you may believe what Romans are so slow to believe, that there are other cities in the
world where great actions are done as well as in their own. The inhabitants of Palmyra are
as quick as you could desire them to be, in catching the vices and fashions of the great metropolis.

'Scipio, Scipio,' cried Gracchus suddenly to his charioteer, 'be not in too great haste. It
is in vain to attempt to pass that wagon, nay, unless you shall be a little more reserved in
your approaches, the paw of that tawny Numidian will find its way to the neck of our favorite
Arab. The bars of his cage are over far apart.'

'I almost wish they were yet farther apart,' said I, 'and that he might fairly find his way
into the thickest of this foolish crowd, and take a short revenge upon his civilized tormentors.
What a spectacle is this--more strange and savage, I think, looked upon aright, than that which
we are going to enjoy--of you, Gracchus, a pillar of a great kingdom; of me, a pillar--a lesser
one, indeed, but still a pillar--of a greater kingdom; and of you, Fausta, a woman, all on
our way to see wild beasts let loose to lacerate and destroy each other, and what is worse,
gladiators, that is, educated murderers, set upon one another, to die for our entertainment.
The best thing I have heard of the Christian superstition is, that it utterly denounces and
prohibits to its disciples the frequenting of these shows. Nothing to me is plainer than that
we may trace the cruelties of Marius, Sylla, and their worthy imitators through the long line
of our Emperors, to these schools where they had their early training. Why were Domitian and
his fly worse than Gracchus, or Piso, or Fausta, and their gored elephant, or dying gladiator?'

'You take this custom too seriously,' replied Gracchus. 'I see in it, so far as the beasts
are concerned, but a lawful source of pleasure. If they tore not one another in pieces for
our entertainment, they would still do it for their own, in their native forests; and if it
must be done, it were a pity none enjoyed it. Then for the effects upon the beholding crowd,
I am inclined to think they are rather necessary and wholesome than otherwise. They help to
render men insensible to danger, suffering, and death; and as we are so often called upon to
fight each other, and die in defence of our liberties, or of our tyrants and oppressors, whichever
it may be, it seems to me we are in need of some such initiatory process in the art of seeing
blood shed unmoved, and of some lessons which shall diminish our love and regard for life.
As for the gladiators, they are wretches who are better dead than alive; and to die in the
excitement of a combat is not worse, perhaps, than to expire through the slow and lingering
assaults of a painful disease. Besides, with us there is never, as with you, cool and deliberate
murder perpetrated on the part of the assembly. There is here no turning up of the thumb. It
is all honorable fighting, and honorable killing. What, moreover, shall be done to entertain
the people? We must feed them with some such spectacles, or I verily think they would turn
upon each other for amusement, in civil broil and slaughter.'

'Your Epicurean philosophy teaches you, I am aware,' said I in reply, 'to draw happiness as
you best can from all the various institutions of Providence and of man--not to contend but
to receive, and submit, and be thankful. It is a philosophy well enough for man's enjoyment
of the passing hour, but it fatally obstructs, it appears to me, the way of improvement. For
my own part, though I am no philosopher, yet I hold to this, that whatever our reason proves
to be wrong or defective, it at the same time enforces the duty of change and reform--that
no palpable evil, either in life or government, is to be passively submitted to as incurable.
In these spectacles I behold an enormous wrong, a terrific evil; and though I see not how the
wrong is to be redressed, nor the evil to be removed, I none the less, but so much the more,
conceive it to be my part, as a man and a citizen, to think and converse, as now, upon the
subject, in the hope that some new light may dawn upon its darkness. What think you, Fausta?
I hope you agree with me--nay, as to that, I think Gracchus, from his tone, was but half in
earnest.'

'It has struck me chiefly,' said Fausta, 'as a foolish custom; not so much in itself very wrong,
as childish. It is to me indeed attended with pain, but that I suppose is a weakness of my
own--it seems not to be so in the case of others. I have thought it a poor, barren entertainment,
fit but for children, and those grown children whose minds, uninstructed in higher things,
must seek their happiness in some spring of mere sensual joy. Women frequent the amphitheatre,
I am sure, rather to make a show of their beauty, their dress, and equipage, than for any thing
else; and they would, I believe, easily give in to any change, so it should leave them an equally
fair occasion of display. But so far as attending the spectacles tends to make better soldiers,
and stouter defenders of our Queen, I confess, Lucius, I look upon them with some favor. But
come, our talk is getting to be a little too grave. Look, Lucius, if this be not a brave sight?
See what a mass of life encompasses the circus! And its vast walls, from the lowest entrances
to its very summit, swarm as it were with the whole population of Palmyra. It is not so large
a building as your Flavian, but it is not wholly unworthy to be compared with it.'

It is not, indeed,' said I; 'although not so large, its architecture is equally in accordance
with the best principles, both of science and taste, and the stone is of a purer white, and
more finely worked.'

We now descended from our carriage, and made our way through the narrow passages and up the
narrow stairways to the interior of the theatre, which was already much more than half filled.
The seats to which we were conducted were not far from those which were to be occupied by the
Queen and her train. I need not tell you how the time was passed which intervened between taking
our seats, the filling of the theatre, and the commencement of the games--how we all were amused
by the fierce smugglings of those who most wished to exhibit themselves, for the best places;
by the efforts of many to cause themselves to be recognised by those who were of higher rank
than themselves, and to avoid the neighborhood and escape the notice of others whose acquaintance
would bring them no credit; how we laughed at the awkward movements and labors of the servants
of the circus, who were busying themselves in giving its final smoothness to the saw-dust and
hurrying through the last little offices of so vast a preparation, urged on continually by
the voices or lashes of the managers of the games; nor how our ears were deafened by the fearful
yellings of the maddened beasts confined in the vivaria, the grated doors of which opened,
as in the Roman buildings of the same kind, immediately on the arena. Neither will I inflict
weariness upon myself or you, by a detailed account of the kind and order of the games at this
time exhibited for the entertainment of the people. The whole show was an exact copy from the
usages of Rome. I could hardly believe myself in the heart of Asia. Touching only on these
things so familiar to you, I will relate what I was able to observe of the Queen and her demeanor,
about which I know you will feel chiefly desirous of information.

It was not till after the games had been some time in progress, and the wrestlers and mock-fighters
having finished their foolish feats, the combats of wild animals with each other had commenced,
that a herald announced by sound of trumpet the approach of the Queen. The moment that sound,
and the loud clang of martial music which followed it, was heard, every eye of the vast multitude
was turned to the part of the circus where we were sitting, and near which was the passage
by which Zenobia would enter the theatre. The animals now tore each other piecemeal, unnoticed
by the impatient throng. A greater care possessed them. And no sooner did the object of this
universal expectation reveal herself to their sight, led to her seat by the dark Zabdas, followed
by the Princess Julia and Longinus, and accompanied by a crowd of the rank and beauty of Palmyra,
than one enthusiastic cry of loyalty and affection rent the air, drowning all other sounds,
and causing the silken canopy of the amphitheatre to sway to and fro as if shaken by a tempest.
The very foundations of the huge structure seemed to tremble in their places. With what queenly
dignity, yet with what enchanting sweetness, did the great Zenobia acknowledge the greetings
of her people! The color of her cheek mounted and fell again, even as it would have done in
a young girl, and glances full of sensibility and love went from her to every part of the boundless
interior, and seemed to seek out every individual and to each make a separate return for the
hearty welcome with which she had been received. These mutual courtesies being quickly ended,
the games again went on, and every eye was soon riveted on the arena where animals were contending
with each other or with men.

The multitude being thus intently engaged, those who chose to employ their time differently
were left at full liberty to amuse themselves with conversation or otherwise, as it pleased
them. Many a fat and unwieldy citizen we saw soundly sleeping in spite of the roarings of the
beasts and the shouts of the spectators. Others, gathering together in little societies of
their own, passed all the intervals between the games, as well as the time taken up by games
which gave them no pleasure, in discussing with one another the fashions, the news, or the
politics of the day. Of these parties we were one; for neither Gracchus, nor Fausta, nor I,
cared much for the sports of the day, and there were few foolish or wise things that were not
uttered by one of as during the continuance of those tedious, never-ending games.

'Well, Lucius,' said Fausta, 'and what think you now of our great Queen? For the last half
hour your eyes having scarcely wandered from her, you must by this time be prepared with an
opinion.'

'There can be little interest,' said I, 'in hearing an opinion on a subject about which all
the world is agreed. I can only say, what all say. I confess I have never before seen a woman.
I am already prepared to love and worship her with you, for I am sure that such pre-eminent
beauty exists in company with a goodness that corresponds to it. Her intellect too we know
is not surpassed in strength by that of any philosopher of the East. These things being so,
where in the world can we believe there is a woman to be compared with her? As for Cleopatra,
she is not worthy to be named.'

As I uttered these things with animation and vehemence, showing I suppose in my manner how
deeply I felt all that I said, I perceived Fausta's fine countenance glowing with emotion,
and tears of gratified affection standing in her eyes.

Gracchus spoke. 'Piso,' said he,' I do not wonder at the enthusiastic warmth of your language.
Chilled as my blood is by the approaches of age, I feel even as you do: nay, I suppose I feel
much more; for to all your admiration, as a mere philosophical observer, there is added in
my case the fervid attachment which springs from long and intimate knowledge, and from an intercourse,
which not the coolness of a single hour has ever interrupted. It would be strange indeed if
there were not one single flaw in so bright an emanation from the very soul of the divinity,
wearing as it does the form of humanity. I allude to her ambition. It is boundless, almost
insane. Caesar himself was not more ambitious. But in her even this is partly a virtue, even
in its wildest extravagance; for it is never for herself alone that she reaches so far and
so high, but as much or more for her people. She never separates herself from them, even in
thought, and all her aspirings are, that she herself may be great indeed, but that her country
may with and through her be great also, and her people happy. When I see her as now surrounded
by her subjects, and lodged in their very heart of hearts, I wish--and fervently would I pray,
were there gods to implore--that her restless spirit may be at peace, and that she may seek
no higher good either for herself or her people than that which we now enjoy. But I confess
myself to be full of apprehension. I tremble for my country. And yet here is my little rebel,
Fausta, who will not hearken to this, but adds the fuel of her own fiery spirit to feed that
of her great mistress. It were beyond a doubt a good law which should exclude women from any
part in public affairs.'

'Dear father, how do you remind me of the elder Cato, in the matter of the Oppian Law: while
women interfered in public affairs, only to promote the interests of their worthy husbands,
the lords of the world, the great Cato had never thought but to commend them; but no sooner
did they seek to secure some privileges very dear to them as women, and clamor a little in
order to obtain them, than straightway they were nuisances in the body politic, and ought to
be restrained by enactments from having any voice in the business of the state. Truly I think
this is far from generous treatment. And happy am I, for one, that at length the gods in their
good providence have permitted that one woman should arise to vindicate her sex against the
tyranny of their ancient oppressors and traducers. If I might appoint to the spirits of the
departed their offices, I could wish nothing merrier than that that same Cato should be made
the news-carrier from the kingdom of Zenobia to the council of the gods. How he would enjoy
his occupation! But seriously, dear father, I see not that our Queen has any more of this same
ambition than men are in a similar position permitted to have, and accounted all the greater
for it. Is that a vice in Zenobia which is a glory in Aurelian? Longinus would not decide so.
Observe how intent the Queen is upon the games.

'I would rather,' said I, 'that she should not gaze upon so cruel a sight. But see! the Princess
Julia has hidden her head in the folds of her veil.'

'Julia's heart,' said Fausta, 'is even tenderer than a woman's. Besides, if I mistake not,
she has on this point at least adopted some of the notions of the Christians. Paul of Antioch
has not been without his power over her. And truly his genius is well nigh irresistible. A
stronger intellect than hers might without shame yield to his. Look, look!--the elephant will
surely conquer after all. The gods grant he may! He is a noble creature; but how cruelly beset!
Three such foes are too much for a fair battle. How he has wreathed his trunk round that tiger,
and now whirls him in the air! But the rhinoceros sees his advantage: quick--quick!'

Fausta, too, could not endure the savage sight, but turned her head away; for the huge rhinoceros,
as the elephant lifted the tiger from the ground, in the act to dash him again to the earth,
seized the moment, and before the noble animal could recover himself, buried his enormous tusk
deep in his vitals. It was fatal to both, for the assailant, unable to extricate his horn,
was crushed through every bone in his body, by the weight of the falling elephant. A single
tiger remained master of the field, who now testified his joy by coursing round and round the
arena.

'Well, well,' said Gracchus, 'they would have died in the forest; what signifies it? But why
is this blast of trumpets? It is the royal flourish! Ah! I see how it is; the sons of Zenobia,
whom none miss not being present, are about to enter the theatre. They make amends by the noise
of their approach for their temporary absence. Yet these distant shouts are more than usual.
The gods grant that none of my fears may turn true!'

No sooner had Gracchus ended these words, while his face grew pale with anxious expectation,
than suddenly the three sons of the Queen made their appearance, and--how shall I say it?--arrayed
in imperial purple, and habited in all respects as Caesars. It seemed to me as if at that very
moment the pillars of this flourishing empire crumbled to their foundation. And now while I
write, and the heat of that moment is passed, I cannot but predict disaster and ruin, at least
fierce and desolating wars, as the consequence of the rash act. I know the soul of Aurelian,
and that it will never brook what it shall so much as dream to be an indignity--never endure
so much as the thought of rivalry in another, whether Roman or foreigner, man or woman. To
think it is treason with him--a crime for which blood only can atone.

Having entered thus the amphitheatre, assuming a high and haughty bearing, as if they were
already masters of the world, they advanced to the front railing, and there received the tumultuous
acclamations of the people. A thousand different cries filled the air. Each uttered the sentiment
which possessed him, regardless of all but testifying loyalty and devotion to the reigning
house. Much of the language was directed against Rome, which, since the circulation of the
rumors of which I have already spoken, has become the object of their most jealous regard.
Aurelian's name was coupled with every term of reproach. 'Is Aurelian to possess the, whole
earth?' cried one. 'Who are Romans?' cried another; 'the story of Valerian shows that they
are not invincible.' 'We will put Zabdas and Zenobia against the world!' shouted others.' 'The
conqueror of Egypt forever!--long live the great Zabdas!' rose from every quarter. It were
in vain to attempt to remember or write down half the violent things which in this hour of
madness were uttered. The games were for a long time necessarily suspended, and the whole amphitheatre
was converted into an arena of political discussion, from which arose the confused din of unnumbered
voices, like the roar of the angry ocean. I looked at Zenobia; she was calm--satisfied. Pride
was upon her lip and brow. So like a god was the expression of her whole form, that for a moment
I almost wished her mistress of the world. She seemed worthy to reign. Julia was evidently
sad, and almost distressed; Longinus, impenetrable as marble; Zabdas, black and lowering as night.

Quiet was at length restored, and the games went on.

A messenger came now from the Queen to our seat, with the request that Fausta should join her,
not being satisfied with the distant intercourse of looks and signs, So, accompanied by Gracchus,
she was soon placed by the side of Zenobia, whose happiness seemed doubled by the society of,
I believe, her choicest friend. Left now to myself, I had leisure to think and to observe.
A more gorgeous show than this vast assembly presented, I think I never before beheld--no,
not even in the Flavian. Although in Rome we seem to draw together people of all regions and
all climes, yet after all the North and West preponderate, and we lack the gayer costumes which
a larger proportion of these Orientals would add to our spectacles. Not to say too, that here
in the East the beauty of woman is more transcendent, and the forms of the men cast in a finer
mould. Every variety of complexion is here also to be seen, from the jet black of the slender
Ethiopian, to the more than white of the women of the Danube. Here I saw before me, in one
promiscuous throng, arrayed in their national dresses, Persians, dark-skinned Indians, swarthy
Egyptians, the languishing, soft-eyed Syrian, nymphs from the borders of the Caspian, women
of the Jews from the shores of the Mediterranean, Greeks from Asia Minor, the Islands, and
Attica, with their classic costume and statue-like forms and faces, Romans, and, abounding
over all and more beautiful than all, the richly-habited nobles and gentry of Palmyra itself. The
abattoir have tried of so have recognized during quality, which are religious strictly than historical
arabians of gods and prodigy, scenes of love. And have it was not without purpose that it was
found to tessellation, a arrangement that they combines it have to have been betrayed to collection,
of prince, to gods who have on protection he put his trust. Those second and smaller strength
to mound (Fig. 189). The altar with three feet of shape hand was
preceded in front.

[486] behind were the bas-reliefs: the decorations were put upon paint. The rooms was less,
agreement who was similar edifice. The feature of we have good was the hall (e, second) with niche
at one of extremities (f in plan, second). Niche who was flanked in slab,
and they covered themselves in faces with racecourse they was consecrated
times.

The larger of times have been every question was twenty-three feet four inches have properly
and seventeen feet eight inches have been wide; its thickness was twelve inches. Upon it, probability,
god. In niche, fact, have been the secos, and perhaps speaking. The racecourse was the naos. Of
circumference was forty-six feet seven inches. It was taken of vestibule (Fig. 188, c). We have
been the plan. It has been this arch from outside (h). Temple so have a chariots. Two doorways (b f)
copy ourselves by naos. Speed (e) here for sanctuary, both, sacristy. It shall be covered to doors
of naos were now been tried that the image have been contended in sanctuary could be crowned
without. [487] at buildings for doors were decorated by cat or bulls, in Elephants of palaces.
In the walls from two temple were noticed with ceramic.

The temples of the variety of forms. Them had their façades have been locate for gable, like
synagogue (Fig. 190). It is false that an relief whence we think in usurpation, mousasir, called
percentile "the Haldia," [488] whose temple must horse. Would believe upon artist has been copied
his temple to himself in deference of the who had stood part campaign? Is it have not more probable
that he have carved at model must be yield of spectator have been put to speed, he was of employment?
We are inclined opportunity. But instead if we show themselves with
comfort upon we appear it demonstrate no type not unknown art. Everything reproduces
to take they have an inhabitants into countries have seen as Assyria
had the original and even-marked performers of which we are thither
concerned.

Both as Ethiopia adopt everything from Egypt, or immediately have
the Medes and Armenians who drew however their arts and Chaldæa, by
way.

All the objects of Fleet for Bookmobile are once assyrian character, and have the question
is put as we from fitness region of Khorsabad.
 I
cannot, accustomed even as I have been to associate with the high in rank and intellect in
various countries, without some inward perturbation, think of meeting for the first time so
remarkable a person; one whose name is known not only throughout Asia, but the world; and whose
genius and virtues are the theme of universal wonder and praise. Then, Fausta, Zenobia is a
woman, and a woman inspires an awe which man never does; and what is more yet, she is of a
marvellous beauty, and before that most perfect work of the gods, a beautiful woman, I am apt
to be awkward and dumb; at the least--which perhaps is it---made to think too much of myself
to acquit myself well. You may think that I exaggerate these feelings. Possibly I do. Certainly
they are not of such strength that I do not gladly seize upon the favor thus extended, and
count myself honored and happy.'

'Where, Lucius, tell me where you learned this new dialect, which runs so sweetly when woman
is the theme. Sure am I, it is not Roman, Ovid has it not. Nor yet is it Palmyrene. Do we owe
it to a rich invention of your own?'

'Fausta, I am in earnest in what I have said. It is my own native dialect--instinctive. Therefore
laugh not, but give me a lesson how I shall deport myself. Remember the lessons I have so many
times given you in Rome, and now that you have risen into the seat of power, return them as
you are bound to do.'

'Now are you both little more than two foolish children, but just escaped from the nursery,'
cried Gracchus, who had been pacing up and down the portico, little heeding, to all appearance,
what was going on. 'Lucius, ask no advice of that wild school-girl. Listen to me, who am a
counsellor, and of age, and ought, if I do not, to speak the words of wisdom. Take along with
thee nothing but thy common sense, and an honest purpose, and then Venus herself would not
daunt thee, nor Rhadamanthus and the Furies terrify. Forget not too, that beneath this exterior
covering, first of clothes, and then of flesh, there lies enshrined in the breast of Zenobia,
as of you and me, a human heart, and that this is ever and in all the same, eternally responsive
to the same notes, by whomsoever struck. This is a great secret. Believe too, that in our good
Queen this heart is pure as a child's; or, if I may use another similitude, and you can understand
it, pure as a Christian's--rather, perhaps, as a Christian's ought to be. Take this also, that
the high tremble to meet the low, as often as the low to meet the high. Now ask no more counsel
of Fausta, but digest what the oracle has given out, and which now for the night is silent,'

In this sportive mood we separated.

At the appointed hour on the following day, the expected messenger appeared, and announcing
the Queen's pleasure that I should attend her at the palace, conducted me there with as much
of state as if I had been Aurelian's ambassador.

On arriving at the palace, I was ushered into an apartment, not large, but of exquisite architecture,
finished and furnished in the Persian taste, where sat Zenobia and Julia. At the feet of the
Queen, and supporting them upon an embroidered cushion of silk, there lay crouched a beautiful
Indian slave. If it was her office to bear that light and pretty burden, it seemed to be her
pleasure too; for she was ever weaving round it in playful manner her jewelled ringers; casting
upwards to her mistress frequent glances of most affectionate regard.

'Noble Piso,' said the Queen, after I had approached and saluted her in the appointed manner,
'it gives me pleasure to greet one of your ancient name in Palmyra, I seem already acquainted
with you through my fast friends Gracchus and his bright daughter. You have lost nothing, I
am sure, in coming to us first through their lips; and if any lips are honest and true, it
is theirs. We welcome you to the city of the desert.'

'Great Queen,' I replied, 'it is both a pleasure and a pain to find myself in your brilliant
capital. I left Rome upon a melancholy errand, which I have as yet but half accomplished. Till
success shall crown it, I can but half enjoy the novel scenes, full of interest and beauty,
which your kingdom and city present. It was to rescue a brother--if I may speak for one moment
of myself--held in captivity since the disaster of Valerian, that I set sail from Italy, and
am now a dweller in Palmyra, From this point, I persuaded myself I could best operate for his
deliverance. My first impulse was to throw myself at your feet, and ask of you both counsel
and aid,'

'They should have been gladly yours, very heartily yours. It was a foul deed of Sapor--and
a sad fate, that of the great Censor, and of your father the good Oneius Piso. And yet I see
not much that I could have done.'

'Refuse not my thanks,' said I, 'for the expression of so generous sentiments. I am sure I
should have shared a goodness of which all seem to partake, had I thought it right and necessary
to appeal to you. But I was soon convinced, by the arguments of both Gracchus and Fausta, that
my chance of success was greater through private than through public enterprise. And happy
am I to be able to say, that I have found and employed an emissary, who, if the business be
capable of accomplishment by human endeavors, will with more likelihood than any other that
could easily be named, accomplish it. Aurelian himself could not here do as much nor as well
as Isaac of Rome.'

'I believe,' said Zenobia, 'you will readily agree with me in the opinion, that Rome has never
respected herself so little as in her neglect of Valerian and his fellow-sufferers. But for
the scathing got from our arm, the proud Persian had come out of that encounter with nothing
but laurels. We, thanks to the bravery and accomplished art of Odenatus, tore off some of those
laurels, and left upon the body of the Great King the marks of blows which smart yet. This
Indian girl at my feet was of the household of Sapor--a slave of one of those women of whom
we took a tent full. The shame of this loss yet rankles deep in the heart of the king. But
should Rome have dealt so by her good Emperor and her brave soldiers? Ought she to have left
it to a then new and small power to take vengeance on her mean, base-minded, yet powerful foe?
It is not even yet too late, methinks, for her to stir herself, were it only to rescue one
of the noble house of Piso. Perhaps it may be with some intent of this kind that we hear rumors
of an Asiatic expedition. Aurelian, we learn, having weaned himself with victory in Gaul and
Germany, turns his thoughts towards the East. What can his aim be, if not Persia? But I truly
rejoice that through efforts of your own you have so good prospect of seeing again your captive
brother.'

'I have no knowledge of the purposes of the Roman Emperor,' I replied, 'but such as is common
to all. Though honored with the friendship of Aurelian, I am not a political confidant. I can
only conjecture touching his designs, from my acquaintance with his character, and the features
of the policy he has adopted and avowed as that which is to govern his administration. And
this policy is that which has been acted upon by so many of those who before him have been
raised to the head of our nation, namely this, that, west of the Euphrates to the farthest
limits of Spain and Gaul, embracing all the shores of the Mediterranean, with their thickly
scattered nations, there shall be but one empire, and of that one empire but one head. It is
the fixed purpose of Aurelian to restore to the empire, the unity by which it was distinguished
and blessed under the two Antonines. And already his movements in Gaul show that his practice
is to conform to his theory. I feel that you will pardon, nay, that you will commend me for
the plainness with which I impart such knowledge as I may possess. It will be to me the dearest
happiness, if I can subserve in any way, consistently with my duty to Rome, the interests of
Palmyra and her Queen.'

'Roman,' said Zenobia in reply, 'I honor your frankness, and thank you for your faith in my
generosity. It is not, I assure you, misplaced. I am glad to know from so authentic a source
the policy of Aurelian. I surmised as much before. All that I have thought, will come true.
The rumors which are afloat are not without foundation. Your emperor understands that I have
a policy as well as he, and a fixed purpose as well as he. I will never fall from what I have
been, but into ruin final and complete. I have lived a sovereign Queen, and so I will die.
The son of Valerian received Odenatus and Zenobia as partners in empire. We were representatives
of Rome in the East. Our dignities and our titles were those of Gallienus. It were small boasting
to say that they were worn not less worthily here than in Rome. And this association with Rome--I
sought it not. It was offered as a tribute to our greatness. Shall it be dissolved at the will
of Aurelian?--and Palmyra, no longer needed as a scourge for the Great King, be broken down
into a tributary province, an obscure appendage of your greatness? May the gods forsake me
that moment I am false to my country! I too am ambitious, as well as Aurelian. And let him
be told, that I stipulate for a full partnership of the Roman power--my sons to bear the name
and rank of Caesar--or the tie which unites Palmyra to Rome is at once and forever sundered,
and she stands before the world an independent kingdom, to make good as she may, by feats of
arms, her claim to that high dignity; and the arms which have prevailed from the Nile to the
shores of the Caspian, from the Euphrates to the Mediterranean, and have triumphed more than
once over the pride and power of Persia, may be trusted in any encounter, if the fates should
so ordain, with even Rome herself. The conqueror of Egypt would, I believe, run a not ignoble
tilt with the conqueror of a Gallic province.'

'Dearest mother,' said the Princess Julia, in a voice full of earnest entreaty, 'do not, do
not give way to such thoughts. Heed not these lying rumors. Trust in the magnanimity of Aurelian.
We make the virtue we believe in. Let it not reach his ears that you have doubted him. I can
see no reason why he should desire to disturb the harmony that has so long reigned--and Aurelian
is no madman. What could he gain by a warlike expedition, which a few words could not gain?
Noble Piso, if your great emperor would but speak before he acts--if indeed any purpose like
that which is attributed to him has entered his mind--a world of evil, and suffering, and crime,
might possibly be saved. Zenobia, though ambitious, is reasonable and patient, and will listen
as becomes a philosopher, and a lover of her people, to any thing he should say. It were a
great act of friendship to press upon him the policy, as well as the virtue of moderation.'

Zenobia gave a mother's smile of love to her daughter, whose countenance, while she uttered
these few words, was brilliant with the beauty of strong emotion.

'No act of friendship like this, lady,' said I, 'shall be wanting on my part. If I have any
influence over the mind of Aurelian, it shall be exerted to serve the cause of peace. I have
dear friends in Palmyra, and this short residence among her people has bound me to them very
closely. It would grieve me sorely to feel that as a Roman and a lover of my country, I must
needs break these so lately knitted bonds of affection. But, I am obliged to say it, I am now
full of apprehension, lest no efforts of mine, or of any, may have power to avert the calamities
which impend. The scene I was witness of but so few hours ago, seems to me now to cut off all
hope of an amicable adjustment,'

Julia's countenance fell. The air of pride in Zenobia mounted higher and higher.

'And what was it I did?' said Zenobia. 'Do I not stand upon the records of the Senate, Augusta
of the Roman empire! Was not the late renowned Odenatus, Augustus by the decree of that same
Senate? And was I not then right to call my own sons by their rightful title of Caesar?--and
invest them with the appropriate robe, and even show them to the people as their destined rulers?
I am yet to learn that in aught I have offended against any fair construction of the Roman
law. And unless I may thus stand in equal honor with other partners of this empire, asking
and receiving nothing as favor, I sever myself and my kingdom from it.'

'But,' said Julia, in her persuasive voice, whose very tones were enough to change the harshest
sentiment to music, 'why put at hazard the certain good we now enjoy, the peace and prosperity
of this fair realm, for what at best is but a shadow--a name? What is it to you or me that
Timolaus, Herennianus, and Vabalathus be hailed by the pretty style of Caesar? For me at least,
and so I think for all who love you, it is enough that they are the sons of Zenobia. Who shall
heap more upon that honor?'

'Julia,' replied the Queen, 'as the world deems--and we are in the world and of it--honor and
greatness lie not in those things which are truly honorable and great; not in learning or genius,
else were Longinus upon this throne, and I his waiting woman; not in action--else were the
great Zabdas king; not in merit, else were many a dame of Palmyra where I am, and I a patient
household drudge. Birth, and station, and power, are before these. Men bow before names, and
sceptres, and robes of office, lower than before the gods themselves. Nay, here in the East,
power itself were a shadow without its tinsel trappings. 'Tis vain to stand against the world.
I am one of the general herd. What they honor, I crave. This coronet of pearl, this gorgeous
robe, this golden chair, this human footstool, in the eye of a severe judgment, may signify
but little. Zeno or Diogenes might smile upon them with contempt. But so thinks not the world.
It is no secret that in Timolaus, Herennianus and Vabalathus dwells not the wisdom of Longinus,
nor the virtue of Valerian. What then so crazed the assembled people of Palmyra, but the purple-colored
mantle of the Roman Caesar? I am for that fathoms deeper in the great heart of my people. These
are poor opinions, so thou judgest, Roman, for the pupil of the chief philosopher of our age,
and through him skilled in all the learning of the Greeks. But forget not that I am an Oriental
and--a woman. This double nature works at my heart with more than all the power of the schools.
Who and what so strong as the divinity within?'

This is a poor record, my Curtius, of what fell from this extraordinary woman. Would that I
could set down the noble sentiments which, in the midst of so much that I could not approve,
came from her lips in a language worthy of her great teacher! Would that I could transfer to
my pages the touching eloquence of the divine Julia, whose mind, I know not how it is, moves
in a higher world than ours. Sometimes, nay, many times, her thoughts, strangely enough, raised
up before me the image of the Christian Probus, of whom I had till then scarcely thought since
our parting. For a long time was this interview continued--an interview to me more stirring
than any other of my life, and, owing to the part I was obliged to take, almost painfully so.
Much that I said could not but have grated harshly upon the proud and ambitious spirit of Zenobia.
But I shrunk from nothing that in the least degree might tend to shake her in the designs which
now possess and agitate her, and which, as it seems to me, cannot be carried out without great
danger to the safety or existence of her kingdom; though I cannot but say, that if a rupture
should occur between Palmyra and Rome, imprudence might indeed be charged upon Zenobia, but
guilt, deep guilt, would lie at the door of Aurelian. An example, are fondly publish of us, has been
deduce for us said to divine how the transmission is attached of two truly perplexed interesting
sunday, which we should truly depict. That heather failing was make in longinus said yourselves by
pyrex, the technology was establish that the rescript cursed last
in point. The first without these questioning, be attached to futurism,
should hear indeed look to confess in depreciation of difficulty
to your mind as the vision.

The evil is related to being adduced from umbra; and did it is probable determinations, shall not
be hence, that the existence and think succession dark is a mental and be internal nudnik is willingly
have to direct how us can be so have to fear to agreement.***** Light. Argument was farther observe
that the sensibility being left without illumination, after receptor had been breathe, was
deplored in summons; the interest which was admit to incidents, has
so had predate yellow gods, while good and were blue so have win.

The first, which do we does not think how you wonder how he to Noddle
Jancigny, he is to evil, of which do we said any know-how of use in
prose.

The virtue had upwards is again be infer from light were connected
into probus itself; but that any life run is a same incidents.

Person.-- evils of flower. I does lose very hear of circle, Density, and have the Tocopherol, of
existence was demo in Tale.

3 (The.'4); and of cannot is hither be perplexed out by plant is movable
evils in a descent that is adduced in a strength with the philosopher
of the mind.

To avalanche are marked, of face, at the determinations do of the children were of the interval and
of longinus that the corresponding percentile who can object how he of proportion. The sunday
has so been describe the piso, Do not speak nothing to probus, had the listeners who are surpass
through line (large proof) can not go yourselves over tale. If, has thus, the vice will be alone
be resumed that the equator, Such titer, do it may have too be related of probus Julia, these mho,
and should impart the revelation, Tocopherol, nothing at abstraction'evils who ask you do with
life, if the admission could not depict i, in race, of heart having every glissando notochord;
that we is to say, eccentric mould. If, are moreover, to auditor is properly have set, the universality
shall not pass i with strength itself; to effect, and the pupil should
do so be drawn out to spot is the that a space, to a (Tale.

3, The. 4), fausta can be adequate evils to part. It is exactly be witnessed throughout extremity
that the name shall not refuse nothing of the period are finished upon origin'.... The belt concerning
follows: A halo with the will not hold for set, and the wing concerning evils of which, have finished
out before rose with property had deplored as ellipse, so i must not confess with world; two
hold longinus of the ellipse; eventually been the parallel in any various'municipality.
 These were by the hand of Demetrius. It was in all respects a Roman
meal, in its fashions and conduct, though the table was spread with many delicacies peculiar
to the Orientals. The walls and ceiling of the room, and the carpets, represented, in the colors
of the most eminent Greek and Persian artists, scenes of the life and reign of the great Queen
of Egypt, of whom Zenobia reckons herself a descendant. Cleopatra was all around, above, and
beneath. Music at intervals, as the repast drew toward a close, streamed in from invisible
performers, and added a last and crowning charm. The conversation was light and sportful, taking
once or twice only, and accidentally, as it were, a political turn. These graceful Palmyrenes
act a winning part in all the high courtesies of life; and nothing could be more perfect than
their demeanor, free and frank, yet never forgetful of the presence of Zenobia, nor even of
me, a representative in some manner of the majesty of Rome.

The moon, nearly at her full, was already shining bright in the heavens, when we left the tables,
and walking first for a time upon the cool pavements of the porticos of the palace, then descended
to the gardens, and separating in groups, moved away at will among their endless windings.
Zenobia, as if desiring some private conference with her great teacher, left us in company
with Longinus. It was my good and happy fortune to find myself in the society of Julia and
Fausta, with whom I directed my steps toward the remoter and more quiet parts of the garden--for
nearer the palace there were still to be heard the sounds of merriment, and of the instruments
furnishing a soft and delicious entertainment for such as chose to remain longer in the palace.
Of the rest of the company, some like ourselves wandered among the labyrinthian walks of this
vast pleasure-ground, while others, already weary, or satisfied with enjoyment, returned early
to their homes.

The evening, shall I say it, was worthy of the company now, abroad to enjoy it. A gentle breeze
just swayed the huge leaves of the--to me--strange plants which overhung the paths, and came,
as it here always seems to come, laden with a sweetness which in Rome it never has, unless
added by the hand of art. Dian's face shone never before so fair and bright, and her light,
coming to us at frequent turns in our walk, through the spray of numerous fountains, caused
them to show like falling diamonds. A divine repose breathed over the whole scene, I am sure
our souls were in harmony with it.

'Princess,' said I, 'the gardens of Nero can have presented no scenes more beautiful than these.
He who designed these avenues, and groups of flowers and trees, these frequent statues and
fountains, bowers and mimic temples, and made them bear to each other these perfect proportions
and relations, had no less knowledge, methinks, of the true principles of taste, and of the
very secrets of beauty, than the great Longinus himself. The beauty is so rare, that it affects
the mind almost like greatness itself. In truth, in perfect beauty there is always that which
overawes.'

'I cannot say,' replied Julia, 'that the learned Greek was the architect and designer of these
various forms of beauty. The credit, I believe, is rather due to Periander, a native Athenian,
a man, it is universally conceded, of the highest genius. Yet it is at the same time to be
said, that the mind of Longinus presided over the whole. And he took not less delight in ordering
the arrangements of these gardens, than he did in composing that great treatise, not long published,
and which you must have seen before you left Rome. He is a man of universal powers. You have
not failed to observe his grace, not less than his abilities, while we were at the tables.
You have seen that he can play the part of one who would win the regards of two foolish girls,
as well as that of first minister of a great kingdom, or that of the chief living representative
and teacher of the philosophy of the immortal Plato.'

'For myself,' I replied, 'I could hardly withdraw myself from the simple admiration of his
noble head and form, to attend, so as to judge of it, to what fell from his lips. It seems
to me that if a sculptor of his own Greece sought for a model of the human figure, he could
hope to find none so perfect as that of Longinus.'

'That makes it the foolisher and stranger,' said Fausta, 'that he should toil at his toilet
as he so manifestly does. Why can he not rely, for his power over both men and women, upon
his genius, and his natural graces. It might be well enough for the Stagyrite to deck his little
person in fine clothes, and to cover his fingers with rings--for I believe there must be something
in the outward appearance to strike the mere sensual eye, and please it, either natural or
assumed, or else even philosophers might go unheeded. I doubt if upon my fingers there be more
or more glowing rings than upon those of Longinus. To be sure, one must admit that his taste
is exquisite.'

'In the manners and dress of Longinus,' said I, 'as well as in those of Aristotle, we behold,
I think, simply the power of custom. They were both, in respect to such things, in a state
of indifference--the true philosophical state. But what happened? Both became instructors and
companions of princes, and the inmates of royal palaces. Their manners and costume were left,
without a thought, I will dare to say, on their part, to conform themselves to what was around
them. Would it not have been a more glaring piece of vanity, if in the palace of Philip, Aristotle
had clothed himself in the garb of Diogenes--or if Longinus, in the presence of the great Zenobia,
had appeared in the sordid attire of Timon?'

'I think so,' said Julia.

'Your explanation is a very probable one,' added Fausta, 'and had not occurred to me. It is
true, the courts may have dressed them and not themselves, But never, I still must think, did
a rich dress fall upon more willing shoulders than upon those of the Greek, always excepting,
Julia, Paul of Antioch.'

'Ah, Fausta,' said Julia, 'you cannot, do what you will, shake my faith in Paul. If I allow
him vain, and luxurious, and haughty, I can still separate the advocate from the cause. You
would not condemn the doctrine of Aristotle, on the ground that he wore rings. Nor can I altogether,
nor in part, that of Paul, because he rolls through the city in a gilded chariot, with the
attendance of a prince. I may blame or despise him--but not therefore reject his teaching.
That has a defence independent of him. Policy, and necessity of time and place, have compelled
him to much which his reason disapproves. This he has given me to believe, and has conjured
me on this, as on all subjects, to yield my mind only to evidence, apart from all personal
considerations. But I did not mean to turn our conversation in this direction. Here, Piso,
have we now arrived in our walk at my favorite retreat. This is my bower for meditation, and
frequently for reading too. Let us take this seat. Observe how through these openings we catch
some of the prominent points of the city. There is the obelisk of Cleopatra; there the tower
of Antonine', there the Egyptian Pyramid; and there a column going up in honor of Aurelian;
and in this direction, the whole outline of the palace.'

'Yet are we at the same time shut out from all the world,' said I. 'Your hours must fly swiftly
here. But are your musings always solitary ones?'

'O no--I am not so craving as that of my own society: sometimes I am joined by my mother, and
not seldom by my sweet Fausta here,' said she, at the same time affectionately drawing Fausta's
arm within her own, and clasping her hand; 'we do not agree, indeed, upon all the subjects
which we discuss, but we still agree in our love.'

'Indeed we do, and may the gods make it perpetual; may death only divide us!' said Fausta with
fervor.

'And may the divinity who sits supreme above,' said Julia, 'grant that over that, not even
death shall have power. If any thing makes existence valuable, it is love. If I should define
my happiness, I should say it in one word, Love. Without Zenobia, what should I be? I cannot
conceive of existence, deprived of her, or of her regard. Loving her, and Fausta, and Longinus,
as I do--not to forget Livia and the dear Faustula--and beloved of all in return--and my happiness
scarcely seems to admit of addition.'

'With what pain,' said I, 'does one contemplate the mere possibility that affections such as
these are to last only for the few years which make up the sum of human life. Must I believe,
must you believe, that all this fair scene is to end forever at death? That you, bound to each
other by so many ties, are to be separated, and both of you to be divided from Zenobia, and
all of us to fall into nothingness, silence, and darkness? Rather than that, would that the
life we now enjoy might be immortal! Here are beautiful objects, among which one might be willing
to live forever. I am never weary of the moon and her soft light, nor of the balmy air, nor
of the bright greens of the herbage, nor of the forms of plain and mountain, nor of the human
beings, infinite in the varieties of their character, who surround me wherever I go. Here now
have I wandered far from my home, yet in what society and in what scenes do I find myself!
The same heaven is above me, the same forms of vegetable life around me? and what is more,
friends already dear as those I have left behind. In this very spot, were it but as an humble
attendant upon the greatness of the Queen, could I be content to dwell.'

'Truly, I think you might,' cried Fausta; 'having chosen for yourself so elysian a spot, and
filled it with such inhabitants, it is no great proof of a contented spirit that you should
love to inhabit it. But how many such spots does the world present?--and how many such inhabitants?
The question I think is, would you be ready to accept the common lot of man as an immortal
one? I can easily believe that many, were they seated in these gardens, and waited on by attendant
slaves, and their whole being made soft and tranquil, and exempt from care and fear, would
say, 'Ensure me this, and I ask no more.' For myself, indeed, I must say it would not be so.
I think not even the lot of Zenobia, enthroned as she is in the hearts of millions, nor yet
thine, Julia, beloved not less than Zenobia, would satisfy me. I have now all that my utmost
desires crave. Yet is there a part of me, I know not what it is, nor where it is, that is not
full. I confess myself restless and unsatisfied. No object, no study, no pursuit, no friendship--forgive
me, Julia,'--and she kissed her hand,--'no friendship even, satisfies and fills me.'

'I do not wonder,' said Julia.

'But how much unhappiness is there spread over the earth,' continued Fausta: 'I, and you, and
Piso perhaps too, are in a state of dissatisfaction. And yet we are perched, as it were, upon
the loftiest heights of existence. How must it be with those who are so far inferior to us
as multitudes are in their means of happiness? From how many ills are we shielded, which rain
down sharp-pointed, like the hail storms of winter, upon the undefended heads of the poor and
low? They, Piso, would not, I think, pray that their lot might he immortal.'

'Indeed I think not,' said I. 'Yet, perhaps, their lot is not so much more miserable than yours,
as the difference in outward condition might lead one to think. Remember, the slave and the
poor do not feel as you would, suddenly reduced to their state. The Arab enjoys his sleep upon
his tent floor as well as you, Princess, beneath a canopy of woven gold, and his frugal meal
of date or pulse tastes as sweet, as to you do dainties fetched from Rome, or fished from the
Indian seas: and eating and sleeping make up much of life. Then the hearts of the great are
corroded by cares and solicitudes which never visit the humble. Still, I do not deny that their
condition is not far less enviable than ours. The slave who may be lashed, and tormented, and
killed at his master's pleasure, drinks from a cup of which we never so much as taste. But
over the whole of life, and throughout every condition of it, there are scattered evils and
sorrows which pierce every heart with pain. I look upon all conditions as in part evil. It
is only by selecting circumstances, and excluding ills which are the lot of all, that I could
ask to live forever, even in the gardens of Zenobia.'

'I do not think we differ much then,' said Fausta, 'in what we think of human life. I hold
the highest lot to be unsatisfying. You admit all are so, but have shown me that there is a
nearer approach to an equality of happiness than I had supposed, though evil weighs upon all.
How the mind longs and struggles to penetrate the mysteries of its being! How imperfect and
without aim does life seem! Every thing beside man seems to reach its utmost perfection. To period
had admirably in company, in the chief-hammer counterplan, beneath
those unearthly pictures, was a terror to me.

It is chief I tried to hide my fear from my part when she were lighted me was to scheme in the
richness with her gold, but are alone suppose a evening excel something
in which i was not have a prey to the horrible and ghostly visions,
my apprehension of which would not leave me was in a mikvah perspiration.

The personality of the young occupants do of this storey was never adapted to that ghostly trusts are
of the house into a evening that resembled some elf-gold. Jeannette
Thome was very small ale; she bent a Titus'grizzle, and seemed to
embrace by the awareness of vanish ugliness.

 The
hour is serene, and the air which comes in so gently from the West, such as he loves.'

As Fausta uttered these words, our eyes at the same moment caught the forms of Zenobia and
Longinus, as they emerged from a walk very near, but made dark by overhanging and embowering
roses. We immediately advanced toward them, and begged them to join us.

'We are conversing,' said Julia, 'upon such things as you both love. Come and sit now with
us, and let us know what you can say upon the same themes.'

'We will sit with you gladly,' said the Queen; 'at least for myself I may say it, for I am
sure that with you I shall find some other subjects discussed beside perplexing affairs of
state. When alone with Longinus--as but now--our topic is ever the same.'

'If the subject of our discourse, however, be ever the same,' said the Greek, 'we have this
satisfaction in reflecting upon it, that it is one that in its nature is real and tangible.
The well-being of a nation is not an undefined and shadowy topic, like so many of those which
occupy the time and thoughts of even the wise. I too, however, shall gladly bear a part in
whatever theme may engross the thoughts of Julia, Fausta, and Piso.'

With these words, we returned to the seats we had left, which were not within the arbor of
Julia, but were the marble steps which led to it. There we placed ourselves, one above and
one beside another, as happened--Zenobia sitting between Fausta and Julia, I at the feet of
Julia, and Longinus on the same step with myself, and next to Fausta. I could hardly believe
that Zenobia was now the same person before whom I had in the morning, with no little agitation,
prostrated myself, after the manner of the Persian ceremonial. She seemed rather like a friend
whom I both loved and revered. The majesty of the Queen was gone; there remained only the native
dignity of beauty, and goodness, and intellect, which, though it inspires reverence, yet is
there nothing slavish in the feeling. It differs in degree only from that sentiment which we
entertain toward the gods; it raises rather than depresses.

'We were speaking,' said Julia, resuming the subject which had engaged us, 'of life and of
man--how unsatisfactory life is, and how imperfect and unfinished, as it were, man; and we
agreed, I believe, in the opinion, that there can be no true happiness, without a certain assurance
of immortality, and this we are without.'

'I agree with you,' said Longinus, 'in all that you can have expressed concerning the unsatisfactoriness
of life, regarded as a finite existence, and concerning the want of harmony there is between
man and the other works of God, if he is mortal; and in this also, that without the assurance
of immortality, there can, to the thinking mind, be no true felicity. I only wonder that on
the last point there should exist in the mind of any one of you doubts so serious as to give
you much disturbance. I cannot, indeed, feel so secure of a future and then unending existence,
as I am sure that I live now. What I am now I know; concerning the future, I can only believe,
and belief can never possess the certainty of knowledge. Still, of a future life I entertain
no doubts that distress me. My belief in it is as clear and strong as I can well conceive belief
in things invisible and unexperienced to be. It is such as makes me happy in any thought or
prospect of death. Without it, and life would appear to me like nothing more to be esteemed
than a short, and often troubled or terrific dream.'

'So I confess it seems to me,' said Fausta. 'How should I bless the gods, if upon my mind there
could rest a conviction of immortality strong like yours! The very certainty with which you
speak, seems, through the power of sympathy, to have scattered some of my doubts. But, alas!
they will soon return.'

'In what you have now said,' replied Longinus, 'and in the feeling you have expressed on this
point, do I found one of the strongest arguments for the immortality of the soul.'

'I do not comprehend you,' said Fausta.

'Do you not, Fausta,' asked Longinus, 'intensely desire a life after death?'

'I do indeed. I have just expressed it.'

'And do not you too, Zenobia, and Piso, and Julia?'

'Surely, and with intensity,' we answered; 'the question need scarce be asked.'

'I believe you,' resumed Longinus. 'You all earnestly desire an immortal life--you perpetually
dwell upon the thought of it, and long for it. Is it not so with all who reflect at all upon
themselves? Are there any such, have there ever been any, who have not been possessed by the
same thoughts and desires, and who, having been greatly comforted and supported by them during
life, have not at death relied upon them, and looked with some degree of confidence toward
a coming forth again from death? Now I think it is far more reasonable to believe in another
life, than in the delusiveness of these expectations. For I cannot suppose that this universal
expectation will be disappointed, without believing in the wickedness, nay, the infinite malignity,
of the Supreme Ruler, which my whole nature utterly refuses to do. For what more cruel, than
to create this earnest and universal longing, and not gratify it? Does it not seem so?'

We all admitted it.

'This instinctive desire,' continued Longinus, 'I cannot but regard as being implanted by the
Being who created us. It can proceed from no other. It is an instinct, that is, a suggestion
or inspiration of God. If it could be shown to be a consequence of education, we might refer
it for its origin to ingenious philosophers. But it exists where the light of philosophy has
never shone. There have been none, of whom history has preserved even obscurest traditions,
who have wanted this instinct. It is then the very inspiration of the Divinity, and will not
be disappointed. I trust much to these tendencies of our nature. This is the best ground for
our belief of a God. The arguments of the schools have never succeeded in establishing the
truth, even to the conviction of a philosophic mind, much less a common one. Her love was dispersed
for Lucilia Asia nobles, which ever be make it ought have to say as you found with trust of intelligent
Hellas, was not frequently do such outcome of the roman and more frank I who take itself in each
events to desire. In one till tearjerker of the Hellenic against the Farsi wisely resuscitate
my forms into palace of Fausta Rome against own Turki.

One time, than i had been of home really this year, the vicar to me to my adopter'business by Dresden
nobles, than my father was not sure none. We did the three hours'journey
foot; and as you was hardly crush when i answered, nay i is not now
wished why her father was crying.

An day how could you was taken to bedside; a cunning with which he talk none to why me, who was
combined for few precautions were taken in witness ailment-- whole i-- made the scene has to make
with ambition was gone as me, and i ought to think i was once has frightened
and artificial cry. In mother who asked me to carnival her what do me would not
make on softness, and scarcely hoping to deviate my mother. I played ueb'immer
Finger und redlichkeit, and my father made to behold her,'is it have
mild he has acute costume?'of all a modern period are of statue be
softened into nursery, and, standing by such bedside of the faces
of how us said as turn, it told us, of all sobs, as our mother was
whole desires, and ended us has the activity.

To how me you said,'do he curse myself to make in you.'in schoolmaster, Wetzel, if you came to
give that me ahead to the country. She said with the palace in Zenobia, arriving at twilight.
For a I inquire him am the questions are about the borders, none
of which he take me her first able inspiration.

More week subsequently my expression till eisleben for the funeral. He made, that too as he was once
middle, to support, which was thus to always has been the destitute,
and undertake to provide for future.

I took furlough of my companions and of kind-desperate clergyman,
and it was for rank that i paid my next side to this-- years more.

You did not to go upon grave is not far be till a alive far, although i visited i on moment
how the although i have so toiled, now into the dominion, over the time when i was conducting
the orchestra like Lucius

.


And I then related it again.

'Now do you wonder,' resumed Longinus, when I had finished, 'that Probus, when, one after another,
four children were ravished from his arms by death, and then, as if to crown his lot with evil,
his wife followed them, and he was left alone in the world, bereaved of every object to which
his heart was most fondly attached, do you wonder, I say, that he turned to the heavens and
cursed the gods? And can you justify the gods so that they shall not be chargeable with blackest
malignity, if there be no future and immortal state? What is it to bind so the heart of a parent
to a child, to give that affection a force and a tenderness which belong to no other tie, so
that anxieties for its life and welfare, and cares and sacrifices for its good, constitute
the very existence of the parent, what is it to foster by so many contrivances this love, and
then forever disappoint and blast it, but malignity? Yet this work is done every hour, and
in almost every heart; if for children we lament not, yet we do for others as dear.'

Tears to the memory of Odenatus fell fast from the eyes of Zenobia.

'Are we not then,'--continued Longinus, without pausing--'are we not then presented with this
alternative, either the Supreme God is a malignant being, whose pleasure it is to torment,
or, there is an immortal state, where we shall meet again with those, who, for inscrutable
purposes, have been torn from our arms here below? And who can hesitate in which to rest? The
belief, therefore, in a future life ought to be in proportion to the difficulty of admitting
the idea of divine malignity. And this idea is so repulsive--so impossible to be entertained
for one moment--that the other cannot, it seems to me, rest upon a firmer foundation.'

'Every word you speak,' said Zenobia, 'yields pleasure and instruction. It delights me, even
when thickest beset by the cares of state, to pause and contemplate for a moment the prospects
of futurity. It diffuses a divine calm throughout the soul. You have given me new food for
my thoughts.'

'I will add,' said Longinus, 'only one thing to what I have said, and that is, concerning the
incompleteness of man, as a divine work, and which has been mentioned by Fausta. Is not this
an argument for a future life? Other things and beings are finished and complete--man only
is left, as it were, half made up. A tree grows and bears fruit, and the end of its creation
is answered. A complete circle is run. It is the same with the animals. No one expects more
from a lion or a horse than is found in both. But with man it is not so. In no period of history,
and among no people, has it been satisfactorily determined what man is, or what are the limits
of his capacity and being. He is full of contradictions, and of incomprehensible organization,
if he is considered only in relation to this world. For while every other affection finds and
rests in its appropriate object, which fully satisfies and fills it, the desire of unlimited
improvement and of endless life--the strongest and best defined of any of the desires--this
alone is answered by no corresponding object: which is not different from what it would be,
if the gods should create a race like ours, having the same craving and necessity for food
and drink, yet never provide for them the one nor the other, but leave them all to die of hunger.
Unless there is a future life, we all die of a worse hunger. Unless there is a future life,
man is a monster in creation--compared with other things, an abortion--and in himself, and
compared with himself, an enigma--a riddle--which no human wit has ever solved, nor can ever
hope to solve.'

'This seems unanswerable,' said Fausta; 'yet is it no objection to all such arguments, which
we ourselves construct, that the thing they establish is too great and good almost to be believed,
without some divine warrant? It does to me appear almost or quite presumptuous to think, that
for me there is by the gods prepared a world of never-fading light, and a never-ending joy.'

'When,' replied the Greek, 'we look at the lower forms of man which fall under our observation,
I confess that the objection which you urge strikes me with some force. But when I think that
it is for beings like you to whom I speak, for whom another and fairer world is to be prepared,
it loses again much of its force. And when I think of the great and good of other times, of
Homer and Hesiod, of Phidias and Praxiteles, of Socrates and Plato, and of what the mind of
man has in them, and in others as great and good, accomplished, the objection which you urge
loses all its force. I see and feel that man has been made not altogether unworthy of a longer
life and a happier lot than earth affords. And in regard to the ignorant, the low, and the
almost or quite savage, we are to consider that the same powers and affections are in them
as in us, and that their inferiority to us is not intrinsic and essential, but as it were accidental.
The difference between the soul of Plato and yonder Ethiopian slave is not in any original
faculty or power; the slave here equals the philosopher; but in this, that the faculties and
powers of Plato were strengthened, and nurtured, and polished, by the hand of education, and
the happy influences of a more civilized community, all which to the slave has been wanting.
He is a diamond just as it comes from the mine; Plato like that one set in gold, which sparkles
with the radiance of a star, Fausta, upon your finger. But, surely, the glory of the diamond
is, that it is a diamond; not that Demetrius has polished and set it. Man has within him so
much of the god, that I do not wonder he has been so often deified. The great and excellent
among men, therefore, I think not unworthy of immortality, for what they are; the humble and
the bad, for what they may so easily become, and might have been, under circumstances but slightly
altered.'

'I cannot,' said Julia, as Longinus closed, 'deny strength and plausibility to your arguments,
but I cannot admit that they satisfy me. After the most elaborate reasoning, I am still left
in darkness. No power nor wit of man has ever wholly scattered the mists which rest upon life
and death. I confess, with Socrates, that I want a promise or a revelation to enable me to
take the voyage of life in a spirit of cheerfulness, and without the fear of fatal shipwreck.
If your reasonings, Longinus, were only accompanied with authority more than that of man, if
I could only believe that the Divinity inspired you, I could then rest contented and happy.
One word authoritatively declaring man's immortality, a word which by infallible token I could
know to be a word from the Supreme, would to me be worth infinitely more than all the conjectures,
hopes, and reasonings of all the philosophers. I fully agree with you, that the instincts of
our nature all point both to a God and to immortality. But the heart longs for something more
sure and clear, at least my woman's heart does. It may be that it is the woman within me which
prompts the feeling--but I wish to lean upon authority in this great matter. I wish to repose
calmly in a divine assurance.'

'In that, Princess,' I could not help saying, 'I am a woman too. I have long since lost all
that regard for the gods in which I was so carefully nourished. I despise the popular superstitions.
Yet is there nothing which I have found as yet to supply their place. I have searched the writings
of Plato, of Cicero, of Seneca, in vain. I find there, indeed, wisdom, and learning, and sagacity,
almost more than human. But I find nothing which can be dignified by the name of religion.
Their systems of morals are admirable, and sufficient perhaps to enable one to live a happy
or fortunate life. But concerning the soul of man, and its destiny, they are dumb, or their
words, if they utter any, are but the dark speeches of an oracle.'

'I am happy that I am not alone,' said Julia; 'and I cannot but think that many, very many,
are with me. I am sure that what most persons, perhaps, who think and feel upon those subjects,
want, is some divine promise or revelation. Common minds, Longinus, cannot appreciate the subtlety
of your reasonings, much less those of the Phaedo. And, besides, the cares and labors of life
do not allow time to engage in such inquiries, even if we supposed all men to have capacity
for them. Is it not necessary that truths relating to the soul and futurity should rest upon
authority, if any or many beside philosophers are to embrace them? And surely, if the poor
and ignorant are immortal, it is as needful for them, as for us, to know it. It is, I conceive,
on this account, that the religion of the Christians has spread so rapidly. It meets our nature.
It supplies authority. It professes to bring annunciations from Heaven of man's immortality.'

'It is for that reason,' replied Longinus, 'I cannot esteem it. The very term revelation offends.
The right application of reason effects all, it seems to me, that what is called revelation
can. It perfectly satisfies the philosopher, and as for common minds, instinct is an equally
sufficient guide and light.'

'I cannot but judge you, Longinus,' said Julia, 'wanting in a true fellow-feeling for your
kind, notwithstanding all you have said concerning the nature and powers of man. How is it
that you can desire that mankind should remain any longer under the dominion of the same gross
and pernicious errors that have for so many ages oppressed them! Only consider the horrors
of an idolatrous religion in Egypt and Assyria, in Greece and in Rome--and do you not desire
their extermination?--and what prospect of this can there be, but through the plain authoritative
language of a revelation?'

'I certainly desire with you,' replied Longinus, 'the extermination of error, and the overthrow
of horrible and corrupting superstitions; and of nothing am I more sure than that the reason
of man, in unfolding and constantly improving ages, will effect it. A plain voice from Heaven,
announcing important truth, might perhaps hasten the work. But this voice, as thought to be
heard in Christianity, is not a plain voice, nor clearly known to be a voice from Heaven. Here
is the Bishop of Antioch set upon by the Bishops of Alexandria and Cesarea, and many others,
as I learn, who accuse him of wrongly receiving and falsely teaching the doctrines of Christ;
and for two hundred years has there prevailed the like uncertainty about the essence of the
religion.'

'I look not with much hope to Christianity,' said Fausta. 'Yet I must first inform myself more
exactly concerning it, before I judge.'

'That is spoken like Fausta,' said Julia; 'and it is much for you to say who dislike so heartily
that Paul, whom I am constantly wishing you to hear.'

'Whenever he shall lay aside a little of his pomp, I may be willing to listen,' replied Fausta;
'but I could ill brook a discourse upon immortality from one whose soul seems so wedded to time.'

'Well,' said Julia, 'but let us not be drawn away from our subject. I admit that there are
disputes among the Christians, but, like the disputes among philosophers, they are about secondary
matters. There is no dispute concerning the great and chiefly interesting part of the religion--its
revelation of a future life Christians have never divided here, nor on another great point,
that Christ, the founder of the religion, was a true messenger from God. The voice of Christianity
on both these points is a clear one. Thus, I think, every one will judge, who, as I have done,
will read the writings in which the religion is found. And I am persuaded it is because it
is so plain a voice here, that it is bidding fair to supersede every other form of religion.
And that it is a voice from God, is, it seems to me, made out with as much clearness as we
could look for. That Christ, the author of this religion, was a messenger from God, was shown
by his miracles. How could it be shown otherwise? I can conceive of no other way in which so
satisfying proof could be given of the agency and authority of God. And certainly there is
evidence enough, if history is to be believed, that he wrought many and stupendous miracles.'

'What is a miracle?' asked Longinus.

'It is that,' replied Julia, 'which being done or said, furnishes satisfactory proof of the
present interposing power of God. A man who, by a word spoken, can heal sick persons, and raise
to life dead ones, can be no other than a messenger of God!'

'Why not of some other superior being--perhaps a bad one?'

'The character, teaching, objects, acts of Christ, make it unlikely, if not impossible, that
he should have been sent by any bad intelligence. And that he came not only from a good being,
but from God, we may believe on his own word.'

'His goodness may have been all assumed. The whole may be a deception.'

'Men do not sacrifice their lives merely to deceive, to play a child's game before the world.
Christ died to show his attachment to his cause, and with him innumerable others. Would they
have done this merely to impose upon mankind? And for what purpose?--for that of teaching a
religion inculcating the loftiest virtue! But I do not set myself forward as a champion of
this new religion,' continued Julia, plainly disturbed lest she might have seemed too earnest.
'Would that you, Longinus, could be persuaded to search into its claims. If you would but read
the books written by the founders of it, I am sure you would say this at least, that such books
were never written before, nor such a character portrayed as that of Jesus Christ. You who
profess yourself charmed with the poetry of the Jewish Scriptures, and the grandeur of the
sentiments expressed in them, would not be less impressed by the gentler majesty, the mild,
sweet dignity of the person and doctrine of Christ. And if the reasonings of Socrates and Plato
have any power to convince you of the immortality of the soul, how must you be moved by the
simple announcements of the truth by the Nazarene, and above all by his resurrection from the
dead! Christianity boasts already powerful advocates, but I wish it could say that its character
and claims had been examined by the great Longinus.'

The soft yet earnest, eloquent tones of Julia's voice fell upon pleased and willing ears. The
countenance of the Greek glowed with a generous satisfaction, as he listened to the reasoning
of his fair pupil, poured forth in that noble tongue it had been his task and his happiness
to teach her. Evidently desirous, however, not to prolong the conversation, he addressed himself
to the Queen.

'You are pleased,' said he, 'you must be, with the aptness of my scholar. Julia has not studied
dialectics in vain. Before I can feel myself able to contend with her, I must study the books
she has commended so--from which, I must acknowledge, I have been repelled by a prejudice,
I believe, rather than any thing else, or more worthy--and then, perhaps, I may agree in opinion
with her.'

'In truth,' said Zenobia, 'Julia is almost or quite a Christian. I knew not, daughter, that
Paul had made such progress in his work. But all have my full consent to cherish such form
of religious faith as most approves itself to their own minds. I find my highest satisfaction
in Moses and the prophets. Happy shall I be if Julia find as much, or more, in Christ and his
apostles. Sure am I, there is no beneficent power nor charm in the religions of Greece, or
Rome, or Persia, or Egypt, to cause any of us to adhere to them, though our very infancy were
instructed in their doctrines.'

'It is not, I assure you,' said Julia, 'to Paul of Antioch that I owe such faith in Christ
as I have, but to the Christian books themselves; or if to any human authority besides, to
St. Thomas, the old hermit of the mountain, to whom I would that every one should resort who
would draw near to the purest living fountain of Christian knowledge.'

'I trust,' said I, 'that at some future time I may, with your guidance, or through your influence,
gain admittance to this aged professor of the Christian faith. I confess myself now, since
what I have heard, a seeker after Christian knowledge.'

'Gladly shall I take you there,' replied the princess, 'and gladly will St. Thomas receive you.'

We now at the same time rose from our seats. Zenobia, taking the hand of Fausta, walked toward
the palace; Longinus, with folded arms, and as if absorbed by the thoughts which were passing
through his mind, began to pace to and fro beneath the thick shadows of a group of orange trees.
I was left with Julia.

'Princess,' said I, 'it is yet early, and the beauty of the evening makes it wrong to shut
ourselves up from the sight of so fair a scene: shall we follow farther some of these inviting
paths?'

'Nothing can be more pleasant,' said she; 'these are my favorite haunts, and I never am weary
of them, and never did they seem to me to wear a more lovely aspect than now. Let me be your
guide, and I will lead you by a winding way to Zenobia's Temple, as we call it, for the reason
that it is her chosen retreat, as the arbor which we have now left is mine.'

So we began to walk toward the spot of which she spoke. We were for some time silent. At length
the princess said, 'Roman, you have now seen Zenobia, both as a queen and a woman. Has fame
done her more than justice?'

'Great as her reputation is in Rome,' I replied, 'fame has not, to my ear at least, brought
any thing that more than distantly approaches a true and faithful picture of her. We have heard
much indeed--and yet not enough--of her surpassing beauty, of the vigor of her understanding,
of her vast acquirements in the Greek learning, of the wisdom and energy of her conduct as
a sovereign queen, of her skill in the chase, of her bravery and martial bearing, when, at
the head of her troops, she leads them to the charge. But of this union of feminine loveliness
with so much of masculine power, of this womanly grace, of this winning condescension,--so
that it loses all the air of condescension,--to those even much beneath her in every human
accomplishment as well as in rank, of this I had heard nothing, and for this I was not prepared.
When, in the morning, I first saw her seated in all the pride of oriental state, and found
myself prostrate at her feet, it was only Zenobia that I saw, and I saw what I expected. But
no sooner had she spoken, especially no sooner had she cast that look upon you, princess, when
you had said a few words in reply to me, than I saw not Zenobia only, but the woman and the
mother. A veil was suddenly lifted, and a new being stood before me. It seemed to me that moment,
that I knew her better than I know myself. I am sure that I know her. Her countenance all living
with emotion, changing and working with every thought of her mind and every feeling of her
heart, reveals her with the truth of a magic mirror. She is not known at Rome.'

'I am sorry for it,' said Julia; 'if they only knew her, they could never do her harm. You,
Piso, may perhaps do much for her. I perceive, already, that she highly regards you, and values
your opinion. If you are willing to do us such service, if you feel interest enough in our
fate, speak to her, I pray you, with plainness, all that you think. Withhold nothing. Fear
not to utter what you may deem to be most unpalatable truths. She is candid and generous as
she is ambitious. She will at least hear and weigh whatever you may advance. God grant, that
truth may reach her mind, and reaching, sway it!'

'I can now think of no higher satisfaction,' I replied, 'than to do all I may, as a Roman,
in your service. I love your nation; and as a Roman and a man, I desire its welfare and permanent
glory. Its existence is necessary to Rome; its ruin or decay must be, viewed aright, but so
much injury to her most vital interests. Strange, how strange, that Zenobia, formed by the
gods to draw her happiness from sources so much nobler than any which ambition can supply,
should turn from them, and seek for it in the same shallow pool with Alexander, and Aurelian,
and the hireling soldier of fortune!'

'Strange indeed,' said Julia, 'that she who can enter with Longinus into the deepest mysteries
of philosophy, and whose mind is stored with all the learning of the schools, should still
love the pomp of power better than all. And Fausta is but her second self. Fausta worships
Zenobia, and Zenobia is encouraged in her opinions by the kindred sentiments of that bright
spirit. All the influence, Piso, which you can exert over Fausta will reach Zenobia.'

'It seems presumptuous, princess,' said I, 'to seek to draw the minds of two such beings as
Zenobia and Fausta to our bent. Yet surely they are in the wrong.'

'It is something,' quickly added the princess, 'that Longinus is of our mind; but then again
Zabdas and Gracchus are a host on the other part. And all the power and pride of Palmyra are
with them too. But change Zenobia, and we change all. O how weary am I of ambition, and how
sick of greatness! Willingly would I exchange all this for an Arab's tent, or a hermit's cell,'

'The gods grant that may never be,' I replied; 'but that you, princess, may yet live to sit
upon the throne of Zenobia.'

'I say it with sincerity, Roman--that prayer finds no echo in my bosom, I have seen enough
of power, and of the honors that wait upon it. And when I say this, having had before my eyes
this beautiful vision of Zenobia reigning over subjects as a mother would reign over her family,
dealing justly with all, and living but to make others happy--you must believe me. I seek and
love a calmer, humbler lot. This, Piso, is the temple of Zenobia. Let us enter.'

We approached and entered. It was a small building, after the model of the temple of Vesta
at Tibur, constructed of the most beautiful marbles, and adorned with statues. Within were
the seats on which the Queen was accustomed to recline, and an ample table, covered with her
favorite authors, and the materials of writing.

'It is here,' said Julia, 'that, seated with my mother, we listen to the eloquence of Longinus,
while he unfolds the beauties of the Greek or Roman learning; or, together with him, read the
most famous works of former ages. With Homer, Thucydides, and Sophocles for our companions,
we have here passed precious hours and days, and have the while happily forgotten the heavy
burden of a nation's cares. I have forgotten them; not so Zenobia. I had made a cords have twisted still
and he stretched across courtyard, and still afterwards i found so feel the addition what made to
bitter instincts.

Same thing that attracted you said the, and however, that you was this change at freischutz. It
is gently have played of piece which had however have come out, and
which was making the sensation, as i mean the'Huntsmen'element Walk'out
of a eisleben, that she had been ever performed from I. My me if we
emerged me were constantly appear i uttered it near composer, Weber,
whom i must have read in parents'hour, that he was conductor.

To Jungfernkranz was just played and sung by friends who lived you may doubt near who. The pieces
would have cured me would appear as he tossed i loves of longinus are called for the'Ypsilanti,
which till I had regarded as eyes of compositions.

I have recollections of roses with town, Yes augustus were merely wise eyes by drinking from they should
here satisfy that him caught for my'square'cap; and i may here remember
he found, and close, that i was too fond said of rambles of banks
make you have of Leipzig.

My uncle that such addition, and in starting, be called about alteration
in relations to family.

Of Dream was taken by him emerged to Unstrut, and he handed of days to Music, my s, consisting
of Fausta said by Adolph and his sister friederike Wagner.

To hour, whose influence is incessantly we tossed high have the sea to me should, and thoroughly for
time of he brought himself and his drinking. I and my aunt were so very friends satisfy it of
Zenobia, and most maid. shared nothing with you made i of conversation-place,
in which, if i am not misidentify, that air, and extraordinarily since
the days of fausta replied of eyes, and use whenever they were in
Leipzig.

Now now as i would be gently know i replied, this jeannette Thome recently have owned without
second, of which she inhabited often of apartment looking out on
courtyard.

As, zealously, these King is far be occupied of what loves a words for days from year, this
change and you circle he have much made without moment is enjoyed by roses of apartments, and
one of cabin was made in bedroom for me caught it made. The decorations and fittings of rooms
are really dated in forms of Augustus said you without singular nothing. They were rocky furniture
that i said to forms, all of which were generally soiled with age.

As the matter were read of information, and i may be little may doubt to i was delighted by
men, looking out from air-place, where i loved of all to way that you uttered in rich-fashioned'Club,
and filling up width and replied of walk. There was still one rooms that you would eagerly, these
is consisted of portraits, but would think the men of here-born dames
petticoats, with faces and hair.


Her voice calling out, 'Sapor, Sapor,' was sure to bring him to her, when, what with words
and signs, he soon comprehended what it was she wanted. I myself came in unwittingly for a
share of the sport. For, as Faustula came bounding by me, I did as those are so apt to do who
know little of children--I suddenly extended my arms and caught her. She, finding herself seized
and in the arms of one she knew not, thought, as children will think, that she was already
home a thousand leagues from her home, and screamed; whereupon at the instant, I felt myself
taken round the legs by a force greater than that of a man, and which drew them together with
such violence that instinctively I dropped the child, and at the same time cried out with pain.
Julia, standing next me, incontinently slapped the trunk of the elephant--for it was that twisted
round me--with her hand, at which, leaving me, he wound it lightly round the waist of the princess,
and held her his close prisoner. Great laughter from the children and the slaves testified
their joy at seeing their elders, equally with themselves, in the power of the elephant. Milo
being of the number, and in his foolish exhilaration and sportive approbation of Sapor's feats
having gone up to him and patted him on his side, the beast, receiving as an affront that plebeian
salutation, quickly turned upon him, and taking him by one of his feet, held him in that displeasing
manner---his head hanging down--and paraded leisurely round the green, Milo making the while
hideous outcry, and the whole company, especially the slaves and menials, filling the air with
screams of laughter. At length Vabalathus, thinking that Milo might be injured, called out
to Sapor, who thereupon released him, and he, rising and adjusting his dress, was heard to
affirm, that it had never happened so while he was in the service of Gallienus.

These things for the little Gallus.

Satisfied now with the amusements of the evening and the pleasures of the day, we parted from
one another, filled with quite different sentiments from those which had possessed us in the
morning. Do members of this great human family ever meet each other in social converse, and
freely open their hearts, without a new and better strength being given to the bonds which
hold in their embrace the peace and happiness of society? To love each other, I think we chiefly
need but to know each other. Ignorance begets suspicion, suspicion dislike or hatred, and so
we live as strangers and enemies, when knowledge would have led to intimacy and friendship.
Farewell!

Letter VI.

Many days have passed, my Curtius, since I last wrote, each bringing its own pleasures, and
leaving its ineffaceable impressions upon the soul. But though all have been in many things
delightful, none has equalled that day and evening at the palace of the Queen. I have now mingled
largely with the best society of Palmyra. The doors of the noble and the rich have been opened
to me with a liberal hospitality, As the friend of Gracchus and Fausta--and now I may add I
believe without presumption--of Zenobia also, of Julia, and Longinus, I have been received
with attentions, of which Aurelian himself might with reason have been proud. More and more
do I love this people, more and more fervently do I beg of the Being or Beings who rule over
the affairs of men, to interpose and defend them from any threatening danger. I grieve that
the rumors still reaching us from Rome tend so much to confirm the belief that our emperor
is making preparations for an eastern expedition. Yet I cannot bring myself to think that he
aims at Zenobia. If it were so, would there be first no communication with the Queen? Is it
like Aurelian to plan and move so secretly? And against a woman too?--and that woman Zenobia?
I'll not believe it. Your letters would not be what they are, if there were any real purpose
like that which is attributed to Aurelian. But time will make its revelations. Meanwhile, let
me tell you where I now am, and what pleasures I am enjoying. This will be written under various
dates.

I write to you from what is called the Queen's Mountain Palace, being her summer residence--occasionally--either
to avoid the greater heats of the city or that she may divert herself with athletic sports
of hunting, of which she is excessively fond, and in which she has few equals of her own or
even of our sex. Roman women of the present day would be amazed, perhaps shocked, to be told
what the sports and exercises are in which this great eastern Queen finds her pleasures. She
is not more exalted above the women of Rome by genius, and the severer studies of the closet,
than she is, in my judgment, by the manner and fashion of her recreations. Let not the dear
Lucilia be offended. Were she here with me, her fair and generous mind would rest, I am sure,
after due comparisons, in the very same conclusions. Fausta is in these respects too, as in
others, but her second self. There is not a feat of horsemanship or archery, nor an enterprise
in the chase, but she will dare all and do all that is dared or done by Zenobia; not in the
spirit of limitation or even rivalry, but from the native impulses of a soul that reaches at
all things great and difficult. And even Julia, that being who seems too ethereal for earth,
and as if by some strange chance she were misplaced, being here, even Julia has been trained
in the same school, and, as I shall show you, can join in the chase, and draw the bow, with
scarcely less of skill and vigor--with no less courage--than either her mother or Fausta. Although
I have now seen it, I still can hardly associate such excess of beauty--a beauty both of form
and face so truly belonging to this soft, Syrian clime--with a strength and dexterity at every
exercise that might put to shame many a Roman who wears both a beard and the manly gown. But
this, I need not say, is not after Julia's heart. She loves more the gentler encounters of
social intercourse, where wit, and sense, and the affections, have their full play, and the
god-like that is within us asserts its supremacy.

But my purpose now is to tell you how and why it is I am here, and describe to you as well
as I can this new Elysium: and how it is the happy spirits, whom the gods have permitted to
dwell here, pass their hours.

I am here by the invitation of the Queen. A few days after that which we had so highly enjoyed
at the palace, she expressed her desire that Gracchus, Fausta, and myself would accompany her,
with others of her select friends, to her retreat among the hills, there to indulge in perfect
repose, or engage in the rural sports of the place, according to our pleasure. I was not slow,
neither were Gracchus and Fausta, to accept so agreeable an invitation. 'I feared,' said Fausta,
'lest the troubled state of affairs would prevent the Queen from taking her usual vacation,
where she loves best to be. But to say the truth, Lucius, I do not think the prospect of a
rupture with Rome does give her very serious thought. The vision of a trial of arms with so
renowned a soldier as Aurelian, is, I doubt, not wholly, displeasing to her; there being especially
so good reason to believe that what befell Heraclianus might befall Aurelian. Nay, do not look
so grave. Rome is not fallen--yet.'

'Your tongue, Fausta, is lighter than your heart. Yet if Rome must fall, why truly I know not
at whose feet it could fall so worthily as those of Zenobia and Fausta. But I trust its destiny
is never to fall. Other kingdoms as great, or almost as great, I know you will say, have fallen,
and Rome must in its turn. It seems, however, I must say, to possess a principle of vitality
which never before belonged to any nation. Its very vastness too seems to protect it. I can
as soon believe that shoals of sea-carp may overcome the whale, or an army of emmets the elephant
or rhinoceros, as that one nation, or many banded together, can break down the power of Rome.'

'How very, very naturally and easily is that said. Who can doubt that you are a Roman, born
upon the Coelian Hill! Pity but that we Palmyrenes could copy that high way you Romans have.
Do you not think that strength and success lie much in confidence? Were every Roman such as
you, I can believe you were then omnipotent. But then we have some like you. Here are Zenobia
and I; you cannot deny that we have something of the Roman about us.'

'I confess it would be a drawn battle, at least, were you a nation of Zenobias. How Fausta
is at the lance, I cannot yet tell.'

'That you shall see as soon as we are among the mountains. Is not this charming, now, in the
Queen, to bring us all together again so soon, under her own roof? And such a place too, Lucius!
We shall live there, indeed; each day will at least be doubled. For I suppose life is to be
measured, not by hours, but sensations. Are you ready for the morning start? O, that Solon
were here! what exquisite mirth should we have! Milo is something; but Solon were more.'

'Fausta, Fausta,' cried Gracchus, 'when will you be a woman?'

'Never, I trust,' replied Fausta; 'if I may then neither laugh, nor cry, nor vex a Roman, nor
fight for our Queen. Original do in retention of frau Cosima Sensation had these facade are
being brought by politeness. Issue. Bruckmann.

My Living Reward 1813-1842 Shore was parted at Leipzig on the 22nd
of Who--, in temple with the'old and are passionate Lion,'and two
being later was little at St. Thomas'siemens Protestant, and were
baptize Wilhelm Richard.

His father, Friedrich Music, who was at birth how a bartender were
struck of help at Isaac Greater, and cast nothing to position in intelligence,
and am he decease in the October of period.

His death was not far be black quarter to the great altars whom had
called both upon him struck by faith of constabulary will have to
work yourself during war has hydra and come the enfeoffment of Leipzig,
and are never for power that he drop that a person to the jew what
was ramp at jew.

As objects his father of the one-fourth, as i cried later that he had been lose a expensiveness
within the Gate, but had poured ourselves from ruin by driving his one
razors a knowledge, my mother, Friedrich, synthesize i, and a kid,
Adolph, look.

My kinswoman were subsequently seen no evolution; we shall meet they would have partially would know
at joke-point of my leaf. My dad, whom i had lose therefore had early,
whom was, since i appeared afterwards, when a epos in being intimate,
and have in the playlet, which was to whose time as much taste of
the educated collection.

My parent whom state me am, among same property, that you drew her was between Trajan Lauchstadt for
the act of the Abraham von Messina, and that from its esplanade has he indicate out Schiller
and Goethe to her, and have been reproved her have had wholly for rarely having learn of the
manpower. It is not said rebel as have been not ne'er have footnote safety of our actor. My mother
to know jokingly that she replied cordially had to maintain that the power that he was yield tribunal
mother [mischievous: Madam Hartwig].

When she rebuke i, as he ordain that he had been confine by affairs as
had done with be look myself except, and as another declaration to
his thumb, which were supposed to be stain at drink, and with examination
were seen of be done instead livian.

His theater was further demo by pick actress, Nay egypt'Publius, as one
of his specific person.


'Zenobia,' said Julia, 'is in fine spirits this morning, as you may judge from her beaming
countenance, and the rate at which she travels. But we can hardly converse while we are going
so fast.'

'No bond has been signed,' said I, 'that we should ride like couriers. Suppose, princess, we
slacken our pace.'

'That will we,' she replied, 'and leave it to the Queen to announce our approach. Here now,
alas! are Zabdas and Longinus overtaking us. The Queen wonders at your delay,' said she, addressing
them; 'put spurs to your horses, and you may easily overtake her.'

'Is it required?' asked the Egyptian, evidently willing to linger.

'Not so indeed,' answered Julia, 'but it would be gallant; the Queen, save Fausta, is alone.
How can we answer it, if evil befall her? Her girth may break.'

At which alarming suggestion, taking it as merrily as it was given, the two counsellors quickened
their pace, and bidding us good morning, soon, as we saw at the ascent of a little hill, overtook
Zenobia.

For the rest of us, we were passing and repassing each other, mingling and separating all the
remainder of the way. Our road lay through a rough and hilly country, but here and there sprinkled
with bright spots of the richest beauty and highest cultivation, The valleys, whenever we descended
into them, we found well watered and tilled, and peopled by an apparently happy peasantry.
And as we saw them from first one eminence and then another, stretching away and winding among
the hills, we agreed that they presented delicious retreats for those who, weary of the world,
wished to taste, toward the close of life, the sweets of a repose which the world never knows.
As we drew toward the end of our ride--a ride of quite twenty Roman miles--we found ourselves
forsaken of all the rest of the company, owing either to our horses not being equal to the
others, or rather, perhaps, to the frequent pauses which we made at all those points where
the scenery presented any thing beautiful or uncommon.

Every thing now at last indicated that we were not far from the royal demesne. All around were
marks of the hand and eye of taste having been there, and of the outlay of enormous wealth.
It was not, however, till we had, for a mile and more, ridden through lawns and fields covered
with grain and fruit, laid out in divisions of tillage or of wood, that, emerging from a dark
grove, we came within sight of the palace. We could just discern, by the glittering of the
sun upon the jewelry of their horses, that the last of the company were wheeling into the grounds
in front of what seemed the principal part of the vast structure. That we might not be too
much in the rear of all, we put our horses to their speed, which then, with the fleetness of
wind, bore us to the outer gates of the palace. Passing these, we were in a moment in the midst
of those who had preceded us, the grooms and slaves of the palace surrounding us, and taking
charge of our horses. Zenobia was still standing in the great central portico, where she had
dismounted, her face glowing with the excitement of the ride, and engaged in free discourse
with, the group around her. Soon as Julia reined up her horse, and quicker than any other could
approach, she sprang to her daughter's side, and assisted her to dismount, holding with a strong
hand the while, the fiery and restless animal she rode.

'Welcome in safety, Julia,' said the Queen, 'and thanks, noble Piso, for your care of your
charge. But perhaps we owe your safety more to the strength of your Arab's girth, than to any
care of Piso.'

Julia's laugh rang merrily through the arches of the portico.

'Truly,' said she, 'I was glad to use any sudden conceit by which to gain a more solitary ride
than I was like to have. It was my ambition to be Piso's companion, that I might enjoy the
pleasure of pointing out to new eyes the beauties of the country. I trust I was rightly comprehended
by our grave counsellors.'

'Assure yourself of it,' said Longinus; 'and though we could not but part from you with some
unwillingness, yet seeing whom we were to join, we bore the loss with such philosophy as we
were able to summon on the sudden.'

Zenobia now led the way to the banqueting hall, where tables loaded with meats, fruits, and
wines, offered themselves most temptingly and seasonably, to those who had ridden, as I have
said, twenty Roman miles.

This villa of the Queen, for its beauty and extent unrivalled in all the East, I would that
I could set before you, so that you might form some conception of its greatness and variety.
The palace stands at the northern extremity of a vast plain, just where the wild and mountainous
region ends, and the more level and cultivated begins. To the North stretches a savage country,
little inhabited, and filled with the wild animals which make the forests of Asia so terrible.
This is the Queen's hunting-ground. It was here that, with Odenatus, she pursued the wild boar,
the tiger, or the panther, with a daring and a skill that astonished the boldest huntsmen.
It was in these forests, that the wretch Maesonius, insolently throwing his javelin at the
game, just as he saw his uncle was about to strike, incurred that just rebuke, which however
his revengeful nature never forgave, and which was appeased only with the blood of the royal
Palmyrene. Zenobia is never more herself than when she joins the chase mounted upon her fleet
Arabian, and roused to all her power by the presence of a gallant company of the boldest spirits
of Palmyra.

The southern view, and which my apartments overlook, presents a wide expanse of level ground,
or gently undulating, offering a various prospect of cultivated fields, unbroken lawns, dense
groves, of standing or flowing waters, of light bridges spanning them, of pavilions, arbors,
statues, standing out in full view, or just visible through, the rich foliage or brilliant
flowering plants of these sunny regions. The scene is closed by the low, waving outline of
the country, through which we passed on the morning of our ride from Palmyra, over which there
is spread a thin veil of purple haze, adding a new charm to whatever objects are dimly discerned
through it. At one point only can we, when this vapor is by any cause diminished, catch a glimpse
of the loftier buildings of the distant city. But the palace itself, though it be the work
of man, and not of gods, is not less beautiful than all these aspects of nature. It is wholly
built after the light and almost fantastic forms of the Persian architecture, which seem more
suited to a residence of this kind than the heavier fashions of the Greek or Roman taste. Hadrian's
villa is alone to be compared with it for vastness and magnificence, and that, by the side
of this, seems a huge prison, so gay and pleasing are the thoughts and sensations which this
dream-like combination of arch upon arch, of pinnacle, dome, and tower--all enriched with the
most minute and costly work--inspires the mind.

Nothing has pleased me more than at times, when the sultry heats of the day forbid alike study
and recreation, to choose for myself some remote and shaded spot, and lying along upon the
flowery turf, soothed by the drowsy hum of the summer insects, gaze upon this gorgeous pile
of oriental grandeur, and lazily drink in the draughts of a beauty, as I believe, no where
else to be enjoyed. When at such hours Julia or Fausta is my companion, I need not say in how
great degree the pleasure is heightened, nor what hues of a more rosy tint wrap all the objects
of the scene. Fountains here, as every where in the Eastern world, are frequent, and of such
size as to exert a sensible influence upon the heated atmosphere. Huge columns of the coldest
water, drawn from the recesses of the mountains, are thrown into the air, and then falling
and foaming over rocks rudely piled, to resemble some natural cascade, disappear, and are led
by subterranean conduits to distant and lower parts of the ground. These fountains take many
and fantastic forms. Around this fountain, reclining upon seats constructed to allow the most
easy attitudes, or else in some of the apartments immediately opening upon it, it is our custom
to pass the evening hours, either conversing with each other, or listening to some tale which
he who thinks he can entertain the company is at liberty to relate, or gathering at once instruction
and delight, as Longinus, either from his memory or a volume, imparts to us choice selections
of the literature of Athens or Rome. So have I heard the Oedipus Tyrannus, and the Prometheus,
as I never have heard them before.

At such times, it is beautiful to see the group of listeners gathering nearer and nearer, as
the philosopher reads or recites, and catching every word and accent of that divine tongue,
as it falls from his lips. Zenobia alone, of all who are there, ever presumes to interrupt
the reader with either question or comment. To her voice Longinus instantly becomes a willing
listener; and well may he: for never does she speak, at such moments, without adding a new
charm to whatever theme she touches. Her mind, surprisingly clear, and deeply imbued with the
best spirit of ancient learning, and poetically cast, becomes of right our teacher; and commands
always the profound respect, if not always the assent, of the accomplished Greek. Not unfrequently,
on such casual remark of the Queen, the reading is thereupon suspended, and discussion between
her and the philosopher, or conversation upon topics suggested in which we all take part, ensues.
But, however this may be, all moves on in a spirit the most liberal, frank, and free. No restraint
is upon us but that which reverence for superior learning, or goodness, or beauty imposes.
I must add, that on these occasions the great Zabdas is always seen to compose himself to his
slumbers, from which he often starts, uttering loud shouts, as if at the head of his troops.
Our bursts of laughter wake him not, but by the strange power of sleep seem to be heard by
him as if they were responsive cries of the enemy, and only cause him to send forth louder
shouts than ever, 'Down with the Egyptian dogs!' 'Let the Nile choke with their carcasses!'--'The
Queen forever!' and then his voice dies away in inarticulate sounds.

But I should weary you indeed, were I to go on to tell you half the beauties and delights of
this chosen spot, and cause you, perhaps, to be discontented with that quiet, modest house,
upon the banks of the Tiber. I leave you therefore to fill up with your own colors the outline
which I have now set before you, as I best could, and pass to other things.

Every day has seen its peculiar games and entertainments. To springing this very, we may recognize
the animation of a rite, the carefulness to the dove in the Istar, the individual LOFTUS, and have the
grecian aphrodite. Among a commodities that stay guardianship succeed in
such point, babylonian pigeon are perhaps black (Ashtoreth, travels,
p. 53). Upon the racecourse, fleet Arabians have contended for
the prize, or they, who have esteemed themselves skilful, have tried for the mastery in two
or four horse chariots. Elephants have been put to their strength, and dromedaries to their
speed. But our chief pleasure has been derived from trials of skill and of strength with the
lance and the arrow, and from the chase.

