When the noisy trumpeting ceases, the ordinary noises round about seem like solemn silence
in comparison, and above this comparative silence can be heard the voices of men here and there
over the city, calling out "Al-lah-il-All-ah; Ali Ak-bar." (God is greatest; there is no god
but one God! etc.) with stentorian voices.  The men are perched on the roofs of the mosques,
and on noblemen's walls and houses; the Shah has a strong- voiced muezzin that can be heard
above all the others.  The sun has just set; I can see the snowy cone of Mount Demavend, peeping
apparently over the high barrack walls; it has just taken on a distinctive roseate tint, as
it oftentimes does at sunset; the reason whereof becomes at once apparent upon turning toward
the west, for the whole western sky is aglow with a gorgeous sunset-a sunset that paints the
horizon a blood red, and spreads a warm, rich glow over half the heavens.

The moon will be full to-night, and a far lovelier picture even than the glorious sunset and
the rose-tinted mountain, awaits anyone curious enough to come out-doors and look.  The Persian
moonlight seems capable of surrounding the most commonplace objects with a halo of beauty,
and of blending things that are nothing in themselves, into scenes of such transcendental loveliness
that the mere casual contemplation of them sends a thrill of pleasure coursing through the
system.  There is no city of the same size (180,000) in England or America, but can boast of
buildings infinitely superior to anything in Teheran; what trees there are in and about the
city are nothing compared to what we are used to having about us; and although the gates with
their short minars and their gaudy facings are certainly unique, they suffer greatly from a
close investigation.  Nevertheless, persons happening for the first time in the vicinity of
one of these gates on a calm moonlight night, and perchance descrying "fair Luna "through one
of the arches or between the minars, will most likely find themselves transfixed with astonishment
at the marvellous beauty of the scene presented.  By repairing to the artillery square, or
to the short street between the square and the palace front, on a moonlight night, one can
experience a new sense of nature's loveliness; the soft, chastening light of the Persian moon
converts the gaudy gates, the dead mud-walls, the spraggling trees, and the background of snowy
mountains nine miles away, into a picture that will photograph itself on one's memory forever.
On the way home I meet one of the lady missionaries - which reminds me that I ought to mention
something about the peculiar position of a Ferenghi lady in these Mohammedan countries, where
it is considered highly improper for a woman to expose her face in public.  The Persian lady
on the streets is enveloped in a shroud-like garment that transforms her into a shapeless and
ungraceful-looking bundle of dark-blue cotton stuff.  This garment covers head and everything
except the face; over the face is worn a white veil of ordinary sheeting, and opposite the
eyes is inserted an oblong peep-hole of open needle-work, resembling a piece of perforated
card-board.  Not even a glimpse of the eye is visible, unless the lady happens to be handsome
and coquettishly inclined; she will then manage to grant you a momentary peep at her face;
but a wise and discreet Persian lady wouldn't let you see her face on the street - no, not
for worlds and worlds!

