This had taken place in Lady Ball's own room, after they had left Sir John. The tidings had
taken the old man so much by surprise, that he had said little or nothing. Even his caustic
ill-nature had deserted him, except on one occasion, when he remarked that it was like his
brother Jonathan to do as much harm with his money as was within his reach.

"My memory in such a matter is worth nothing,--absolutely nothing," the old man had said. "I
always supposed something was wrong. I remember that. But I left it all to the lawyers."

In Lady Ball's room the conversation was prolonged to a late hour of the night, and took various
twists and turns, as such conversations will do.

"What are we to do about the young woman?" That was Lady Ball's main question, arising, no
doubt, from the reflection that the world would lean very heavily on them if they absolutely
turned her out to starve in the streets.

John Ball made no proposition in answer to this, having not as yet made up his mind as to what
his own wishes were with reference to the young woman. Then his mother made her proposition.

"Of course that money due by the Rubbs must be paid. Let her take that." But her son made no
reply to this other than that he feared the Rubbs were not in a condition to pay the money.

"They would pay her the interest at any rate," said Lady Ball, "till she had got into some
other way of life. She would do admirably for a companion to an old lady, because her manners
are good, and she does not want much waiting upon herself."

On the next morning Miss Mackenzie trembled in her shoes as she came down to breakfast. Her
uncle, whom she feared the most, would not be there; but the meeting with her aunt, when her
aunt would know that she was a pauper and that she had for the last week been an impostor,
was terrible to her by anticipation. But she had not calculated that her aunt's triumph in
this newly-acquired wealth for the Ball family would, for the present, cover any other feeling
that might exist. Her aunt met her with a gracious smile, was very urbane in selecting a chair
for her at prayers close to her own, and pressed upon her a piece of buttered toast out of
a little dish that was always prepared for her ladyship's own consumption. After breakfast
John Ball again went to town. He went daily to town during the present crisis; and, on this
occasion, his mother made no remark as to the urgency of his business. When he was gone Lady
Ball began to potter about the house, after her daily custom, and was longer in her pottering
than was usual with her. Miss Mackenzie helped the younger children in their lessons, as she
often did; and when time for luncheon came, she had almost begun to think that she was to be
allowed to escape any conversation with her aunt touching the great money question. But it
was not so. At one she was told that luncheon and the children's dinner was postponed till
two, and she was asked by the servant to go up to Lady Ball in her own room.

"Come and sit down, my dear," said Lady Ball, in her sweetest voice. "It has got to be very
cold, and you had better come near the fire." Margaret did as she was bidden, and sat herself
down in the chair immediately opposite to her aunt.

"This is a wonderful story that John has told me," continued her aunt--"very wonderful."

"It is sad enough for me," said Margaret, who did not feel inclined to be so self-forgetful
in talking to her aunt as she had been with her cousin.

"It is sad for you, Margaret, no doubt. But I am sure you have within you that conscientious
rectitude of purpose that you would not wish to keep anything for yourself that in truth belongs
to another."

To this Margaret answered nothing, and her aunt went on.

"It is a great change to you, no doubt; and, of course, that is the point on which I wish to
speak to you most especially. I have told John that something must be done for you."

This jarred terribly on poor Margaret's feelings. Her cousin had said nothing, not a word as
to doing anything for her. The man who had told her of his love, and asked her to be his wife,
not twelve months since,--who had pressed her to be of all women the dearest to him and the
nearest,--had talked to her of her ruin without offering her aid, although this ruin to her
would enrich him very greatly. She had expected nothing from him, had wanted nothing from him;
but by degrees, when absent from him, the feeling had grown upon her that he had been hard
to her in abstaining from expressions of commiseration. She had yielded to him in the whole
affair, assuring him that nothing should be done by her to cause him trouble; and she would
have been grateful to him if in return he had said something to her of her future mode of life.
She had intended to speak to him about the hospital; but she had thought that she might abstain
from doing so till he himself should ask some question as to her plans. He had asked no such
question, and she was now almost determined to go away without troubling him on the subject.
But if he, who had once professed to love her, would make no suggestion as to her future life,
she could ill bear that any offer of the kind should come from her aunt, who, as she knew,
had only regarded her for her money.

"I would rather," she replied, "that nothing should be said to him on the subject."

"And why not, Margaret?"

"I desire that I may be no burden to him or anybody. I will go away and earn my bread; and
even if I cannot do that, my relations shall not be troubled by hearing from me."

She said this without sobbing, but not without that almost hysterical emotion which indicates
that tears are being suppressed with pain.

"That is false pride, my dear."

"Very well, aunt. I daresay it is false; but it is my pride. I may be allowed to keep my pride,
though I can keep nothing else."

"What you say about earning your bread is very proper; and I and John and your uncle also have
been thinking of that. But I should be glad if some additional assistance should be provided
for you, in the event of old age, you know, or illness. Now, as to earning your bread, I remarked
to John that you were peculiarly qualified for being a lady's companion."

"For being what, aunt?"

"For being companion to some lady in the decline of life, who would want to have some nice
mannered person always with her. You have the advantage of being ladylike and gentle, and I
think that you are patient by disposition."

"Aunt," said Miss Mackenzie, and her voice as she spoke was hardly gentle, nor was it indicative
of much patience. Her hysterics also seemed for the time to have given way to her strong passionate
feeling. "Aunt," she said, "I would sooner take a broom in my hand, and sweep a crossing in
London, than lead such a life as that. What! make myself the slave of some old woman, who would
think that she had bought the power of tyrannising over me by allowing me to sit in the same
room with her? No, indeed! It may very likely be the case that I may have to serve such a one
in the kitchen, but it shall be in the kitchen, and not in the drawing-room. I have not had
much experience in life, but I have had enough to learn that lesson!"

Lady Ball, who during the first part of the conversation had been unrolling and winding a great
ball of worsted, now sat perfectly still, holding the ball in her lap, and staring at her niece.
She was a quick-witted woman, and it no doubt occurred to her that the great objection to living
with an old lady, which her niece had expressed so passionately, must have come from the trial
of that sort of life which she had had at the Cedars. And there was enough in Miss Mackenzie's
manner to justify Lady Ball in thinking that some such expression of feeling as this had been
intended by her. She had never before heard Margaret speak out so freely, even in the days
of her undoubted heiress-ship; and now, though she greatly disliked her niece, she could not
avoid mingling something of respect and something almost amounting to fear with her dislike.
She did not dare to go on unwinding her worsted, and giving the advantage of her condescension
to a young woman who spoke out at her in that way.

"I thought I was advising you for the best," she said, "and I hoped that you would have been
thankful."

"I don't know what may be for the best," said Margaret, again bordering upon the hysterical
in the tremulousness of her voice, "but that I'm sure would be for the worst. However, I've
made up my mind to nothing as yet."

"No, my dear; of course not; but we all must think of it, you know."

Her cousin John had not thought of it, and she did not want any one else to do so. She especially
did not want her aunt to think of it. But it was no doubt necessary that her aunt should consider
how long she would be required to provide a home for her impoverished niece, and Margaret's
mind at once applied itself to that view of the subject. "I have made up my mind that I will
go to London next week, and then I must settle upon something."

"You mean when you go to Mr Slow's?"

"I mean that I shall go for good. I have a little money by me, which John says I may use, and
I shall take a lodging till--till--till--" Then she could not go on any further.

"You can stay here, Margaret, if you please;--that is till something more is settled about
all this affair."

"I will go on Monday, aunt. I have made up my mind to that." It was now Saturday. "I will go
on Monday. It will be better for all parties that I should be away." Then she got up, and waiting
no further speech from her aunt, took herself off to her own room.

She did not see her aunt again till dinner-time, and then neither of them spoke to each other.
Lady Ball thought that she had reason to be offended, and Margaret would not be the first to
speak. In the evening, before the whole family, she told her cousin that she had made up her
mind to go up to London on Monday. He begged her to reconsider her resolution, but when she
persisted that she would do so, he did not then argue the question any further. But on the
Sunday he implored her not to go as yet, and did obtain her consent to postpone her departure
till Tuesday. He wished, he said, to be at any rate one day more in London before she went.
On the Sunday she was closeted with her uncle who also sent for her, and to him she suggested
her plan of becoming nurse at a hospital. He remarked that he hoped that would not be necessary.

"Something will be necessary," she said, "as I don't mean to eat anybody's bread but my own."

In answer to this he said that he would speak to John, and then that interview was over. On
the Monday morning John Ball said something respecting Margaret to his mother which acerbated
that lady more than ever against her niece. He had not proposed that anything special should
be done; but he had hinted, when his mother complained of Margaret, that Margaret's conduct
was everything that it ought to be.

"I believe you would take anybody's part against me," Lady Ball had said, and then as a matter
of course she had been very cross. The whole of that day was terrible to Miss Mackenzie, and
she resolved that nothing said by her cousin should induce her to postpone her departure for
another day.

In order to insure this by a few minutes' private conversation with him, and also with the
view of escaping for some short time from the house, she walked down to the station in the
evening to meet her cousin. The train by which he arrived reached Twickenham at five o'clock,
and the walk occupied about twenty minutes. She met him just as he was coming out of the station
gate, and at once told him that she had come there for the sake of walking back with him and
talking to him. He thanked her, and said that he was very glad to meet her. He also wanted
to speak to her very particularly. Would she take his arm?

She took his arm, and then began with a quick tremulous voice to tell him of her sufferings
at the house. She threw no blame on her aunt that she could avoid, but declared it to be natural
that under such circumstances as those now existing her prolonged sojourn at her aunt's house
should be unpleasant to both of them. In answer to all this, John Ball said nothing, but once
or twice lifted up his left hand so as to establish Margaret's arm more firmly on his own.
She hardly noticed the motion, but yet she was aware that it was intended for kindness, and
then she broke forth with a rapid voice as to her plan about the hospital. "I think we can
manage better than that, at any rate," said he, stopping her in the path when this proposal
met his ear. But she went on to declare that she would like it, that she was strong and qualified
for such work, that it would satisfy her aspirations, and be fit for her. And then, after that,
she declared that nothing should induce her to undertake the kind of life that had been suggested
by her aunt. "I quite agree with you there," said he; "quite. I hate tabbies as much as you do."

They had now come to a little gate, of which John Ball kept a key, and which led into the grounds
belonging to the Cedars. The grounds were rather large, and the path through them extended
for half a mile, but the land was let off to a grazier. When inside the wall, however, they
were private; and Mr Ball, as soon as he had locked the gate behind him, stopped her in the
dark path, and took both her hands in his. The gloom of the evening had now come round them,
and the thick trees which formed the belt of the place, joined to the high wall, excluded from
them nearly all what light remained.

"And now," said he, "I will tell you my plan."

"What plan?" said she; but her voice was very low.

"I proposed it once before, but you would not have it then."

When she heard this, she at once drew both her hands from him, and stood before him in an agony
of doubt. Even in the gloom, the trees were going round her, and everything, even her thoughts,
were obscure and misty.

"Margaret," said he, "you shall be my wife, and the mother of my children, and I will love
you as I loved Rachel before. I loved you when I asked you at Christmas, but I did not love
you then as I love you now."

She still stood before him, but answered him not a word. How often since the tidings of her
loss had reached her had the idea of such a meeting as this come before her! how often had
she seemed to listen to such words as those he now spoke to her! Not that she had expected
it, or hoped for it, or even thought of it as being in truth possible; but her imagination
had been at work, during the long hours of the night, and the romance of the thing had filled
her mind, and the poetry of it had been beautiful to her. She had known--she had told herself
that she knew--that no man would so sacrifice himself; certainly no such man as John Ball,
with all his children and his weary love of money! But now the poetry had come to be fact,
and the romance had turned itself into reality, and the picture formed by her imagination had
become a living truth. The very words of which she had dreamed had been spoken to her.

"Shall it be so, my dear?" he said, again taking one of her hands. "You want to be a nurse;
will you be my nurse? Nay; I will not ask, but it shall be so. They say that the lovers who
demand are ever the most successful. I make my demand. Tell me, Margaret, will you obey me?"

He had walked on now, but in order that his time might be sufficient, he led her away from
the house. She was following him, hardly knowing whither she was going.

"Susanna," said he, "shall come and live with the others; one more will make no difference."

"And my aunt?" said Margaret.

It was the first word she had spoken since the gate had been locked behind her, and this word
was spoken in a whisper.

"I hope my mother may feel that such a marriage will best conduce to my happiness; but, Margaret,
nothing that my mother can say will change me. You and I have known something of each other
now. Of you, from the way in which things have gone, I have learned much. Few men, I take it,
see so much of their future wives as I have seen of you. If you can love me as your husband,
say so at once honestly, and then leave the rest to me."

"I will," she said, again whispering; and then she clung to his hand, and for a minute or two
he had his arm round her waist. Then he took her, and kissed her lips, and told her that he
would take care of her, and watch for her, and keep her, if possible, from trouble.

Ah, me, how many years had rolled by since last she had been kissed in that way! Once, and
once only, had Harry Handcock so far presumed, and so far succeeded. And now, after a dozen
years or more, that game had begun again with her! She had boxed Harry Handcock's ears when
he had kissed her; but now, from her lover of to-day, she submitted to the ceremony very tamely.

"Oh, John," she said, "how am I to thank you?" But the thanks were tendered for the promise
of his care, and not for the kiss.

I think there was but little more said between them before they reached the door-step. When
there, Mr Ball, speaking already with something of marital authority, gave her his instructions.

"I shall tell my mother this evening," he said, "as I hate mysteries; and I shall tell my father
also. Of course there may be something disagreeable said before we all shake down happily in
our places, but I shall look to you, Margaret, to be firm."

"I shall be firm," she said, "if you are."

"I shall be firm," was the reply; and then they went into the house.

CHAPTER XXI

Mr Maguire Goes to London on Business

Mr Maguire made up his mind to go to London, to look after his lady-love, but when he found
himself there he did not quite know what to do. It is often the case with us that we make up
our minds for great action,--that in some special crisis of our lives we resolve that something
must be done, and that we make an energetic start; but we find very soon that we do not know
how to go on doing anything. It was so with Mr Maguire. When he had secured a bed at a small
public house near the Great Western railway station,--thinking, no doubt that he would go to
the great hotel on his next coming to town, should he then have obtained the lady's fortune,--he
scarcely knew what step he would next take. Margaret's last letter had been written to him
from the Cedars, but he thought it probable that she might only have gone there for a day or
two. He knew the address of the house in Gower Street, and at last resolved that he would go
boldly in among the enemy there; for he was assured that the family of the lady's late brother
were his special enemies in this case. It was considerably past noon when he reached London,
and it was about three when, with a hesitating hand, but a loud knock, he presented himself
at Mrs Mackenzie's door.

