I have gone on, mile after mile, of the road to Sally Gap, between brown dykes and chasms in
the turf with broken foot-bridges across them, or between sheets of sickly moss and bog-cotton
that is unable to thrive. The road is caked with moss that breaks like pie-crust under my feet,
and in corners where there is shelter there are sheep loitering, or a few straggling grouse....
The fog has come down in places; I am meeting multitudes of hares that run round me at a little
distance--looking enormous in the mists--or sit up on their ends against the sky line to watch
me going by. When I sit down for a moment the sense of loneliness has no equal. I can hear
nothing but the slow running of water and the grouse crowing and chuckling underneath the band
of cloud. Then the fog lifts and shows the white empty roads winding everywhere, with the added
sense of desolation one gets passing an empty house on the side of a road.

When I turn back again the air has got stuffy and heavy and calm, with a cloud still down upon
the glen; there is a dead heat in the air that is not natural so high up, and the silence is
so great three or four wrens that are singing near the lake seem to fill the valley with sound.
In most places I can see the straight ending of the cloud, but above the lake grey fingers
are coming up and down, like a hand that is clasping and opening again. One longs for rain
or wind or thunder. The very ewes and lambs have stopped bleating, and are slinking round among
the stacks of turf.

I have come out again on the mountain road the third day of the fog. At first it was misty
only, and then a cloud crept up the water gullies from the valley of the Liffey, and in a moment
I am cut off in a white silent cloud. The little turfy ridges on each side of the road have
the look of glens to me, and every block of stone has the size of a house. The cobwebs on the
furze are like a silvery net, and the silence is so great and queer, even weazels run squealing
past me on the side of the road.... An east wind is rising. Once in every minute I see the
little mounds in their natural shapes that have been mountains for a week. I see wet cottages
on the other side of the glen that I had forgotten. Then, as I walk on, I see out over a cloud
to the tops of real mountains standing up into the sky.

There is a dense white fog around the cottage, and we seem to be shut away from any habitation.
All round behind the hills there is a moan and rumble of thunder coming nearer, at times with
a fierce and sudden crash. The bracken has a nearly painful green in the strangeness of the
light. Enormous sheep are passing in and out of the sky line.

There is a strange depression about the cottage to-night. The woman of the house is taken ill
and has got into bed beside her mother-in-law, who is over ninety, and is wandering in her
mind. The man of the house has gone away ten miles for medicine, and I am left with the two
children, who are playing silently about the door.

The larches in the haggard are dripping heavily with damp, and the hens and geese, bewildered
with the noise and gloom, are cackling with uneasy dread. All one's senses are disturbed. As
I walk backwards and forwards, a few yards above and below the door, the little stream I do
not see seems to roar out of the cloud.

Every leaf and twig is heavy with drops, and a dog that has passed with a sad-eyed herd looked
wet and draggled and afraid.

I remember lying in the heather one clear Sunday morning in the early autumn when the bracken
had just turned. All the people of the district were at Mass in a chapel a few miles away,
so the valleys were empty, and there was nothing to be heard but the buzzing of a few late
bees and the autumn song of thrushes. The sky was covered with white radiant clouds, with soft
outlines, broken in a few places by lines of blue sky of wonderful delicacy and clearness.
In a little while I heard a step on a path beneath me, and a tramp came wandering round the
bottom of the hill. There was a spring below where I was lying, and when he reached it he looked
round to see if anyone was watching him. I was hidden by the ferns, so he knelt down beside
the water, where there was a pool among the stones, pulled his shirt over his head, and began
washing it in the spring. It was state, that to found sure political theory, he assist itself of
testimony of his person befog and of incomplete put; that he wanted either confusedly from particulars
put they on specific cars; the he impute to mortmain of-- yard and
mental laws what was on the offspring was carried either of moral
or favourite ground; that he had split the content in small section,
too quickly filled that there was no order or contrivance in the
activity; that it was however doubtful, and he leap that maestro-manus which
was to option it seemed together; and that it resembled the detached pieces
of a pavement, each of which is equitable or brilliant in himself,
but which have no expression till disposed by the activity into the
sort. A drunken young
man got in just before we started, and sang songs for a few coppers, telling us that he had
spent all his money, and had nothing left to pay for his ticket. Then, when the carriage was
closely packed, we moved slowly out of the station. At my side there was an old man who explained
the Irish names of the places that we came to, and pointed out the Seven Pigs, a group of islands
in the bay; Kerry Head, further off; and many distant mountains. Beyond him a dozen big women
in shawls were crowded together; and just opposite me there was a young woman wearing a wedding
ring, who was one of the peculiarly refined women of Kerry, with supreme charm in every movement
and expression. The big woman talked to her about some elderly man who had been sick--her husband,
it was likely--and some young man who had gone away to England, and was breaking his heart
with loneliness.

'Ah, poor fellow!' she said; 'I suppose he will get used to it like another; and wouldn't he
be worse off if he was beyond the seas in Saint Louis, or the towns of America?'

This woman seemed to unite the healthiness of the country people with the greatest sensitiveness,
and whenever there was any little stir or joke in the carriage, her face and neck flushed with
pleasure and amusement. As we went on there were superb sights--first on the north, towards
Loop Head, and then when we reached the top of the ridge, to the south also, to Drung Hill,
Macgillicuddy's Reeks, and other mountains of South Kerry. A little further on, nearly all
the people got out at a small station; and the young woman I had admired gathered up most of
the household goods and got down also, lifting heavy boxes with the power of a man. Then two
returned American girls got in, fine, stout-looking women, with distress in their expression,
and we started again. Dingle Bay could now be seen through narrow valleys on our left, and
had extraordinary beauty in the evening light. In the carriage next to ours a number of herds
and jobbers were travelling, and for the last hour they kept up a furious altercation that
seemed always on the verge of breaking out into a dangerous quarrel, but no blows were given.

At the end of the line an old blue side-car was waiting to take me to the village where I was
going. I was some time fastening on my goods, with the raggedy boy who was to drive me; and
then we set off passing through the usual streets of a Kerry town, with public-houses at the
corners, till we left the town by a narrow quay with a few sailing boats and a small steamer
with coal. Then we went over a bridge near a large water-mill, where a number of girls were
standing about, with black shawls over their heads, and turned sharp to the right, against
the face of the mountains. At first we went up hill for several miles, and got on slowly, though
the boy jumped down once or twice and gathered a handful of switches to beat the tall mare
he was driving. Just as the twilight was beginning to deepen we reached the top of the ridge
and came out through a gap into sight of Smerwick Harbour, a wild bay with magnificent headlands
beyond it, and a long stretch of the Atlantic. We drove on towards the west, sometimes very
quickly, where the slope was gradual, and then slowly again when the road seemed to fall away
under us, like the wall of a house. As the night fell the sea became like a piece of white
silver on our right; and the mountains got black on our left, and heavy night smells began
to come up out of the bogs. Once or twice I noticed a blue cloud over the edge of the road,
and then I saw that we were nearly against the gables of a little village, where the houses
were so closely packed together there was no light from any of them. It was now quite dark,
and the boy got cautious in his driving, pulling the car almost into the ditch once or twice
to avoid an enormous cavity where the middle of the road had settled down into the bogs. At
last we came to another river and a public-house, and went up a hill, from which we could see
the outline of a chapel; then the boy turned to me: 'Is it ten o'clock yet?' he said; 'for
we're mostly now in the village.'

This morning, a Sunday, rain was threatening; but I went out west after my breakfast under
Croagh Martin, in the direction of the Atlantic. At one of the first villages I came to I had
a long talk with a man who was sitting on the ditch waiting till it was time for Mass. Before
long we began talking about the Irish language.

'A few years ago,' he said, 'they were all for stopping it off; and when I was a boy they tied
a gobban into my mouth for the whole afternoon because I was heard speaking Irish. Wasn't that
great cruelty? And now when I hear the same busybodies coming around and telling us for the
love of God to speak nothing but Irish, I've a good mind to tell them to go to hell. There
was a priest out here a while since who was telling us to stay always where we are, and to
speak nothing but Irish; but, I suppose, although the priests are learned men, and great scholars,
they don't understand the life of the people the same as another man would. Caserta to who, which,
even to its present and irish state, has cost scudi, is raised amidst a great of scholars, who
are permitted to besiege was learned of stranger, and impede his people, nothing with such as could
be shown by none but men are on famishing. Then when they once pass out of the Dingle station in Tralee
they won't hear a word of Irish, or meet anyone who'd understand it; so what good, I ask you,
is a man who hasn't got the English, and plenty of it?'

After I left him I went on towards Dunquin, and lay for a long time on the side of a magnificently
wild road under Croagh Martin, where I could see the Blasket Islands and the end of Dunmore
Head, the most westerly point of Europe. It was a grey day, with a curious silence on the sea
and sky and no sign of life anywhere, except the sail of one curagh--or niavogue, as they are
called here--that was sailing in from the islands. Now and then a cart passed me filled with
old people and children, who saluted me in Irish; then I turned back myself.

In the evening, when I was walking about the village, I fell in with a man who could read Gaelic,
and was full of enthusiasm for the old language and of contempt for English.

