"Yeah! Well, I was getting used to Tweel's symbolism, and I figured it out this way. 'One-one-two--yes!'
The creatures were intelligent. 'Two-two-four--no!' Their intelligence was not of our order,
but something different and beyond the logic of two and two is four. Maybe I missed his meaning.
Perhaps he meant that their minds were of low degree, able to figure out the simple things--'One-one-two--yes!'--but
not more difficult things--'Two-two-four--no!' But I think from what we saw later that he meant
the other.

"After a few moments, the creatures came rushing back--first one, then another. Their pushcarts
were full of stones, sand, chunks of rubbery plants, and such rubbish as that. They droned
out their friendly greeting, which didn't really sound so friendly, and dashed on. The third
one I assumed to be my first acquaintance and I decided to have another chat with him. I stepped
into his path again and waited.

"Up he came, booming out his 'We are v-r-r-riends' and stopped. I looked at him; four or five
of his eyes looked at me. He tried his password again and gave a shove on his cart, but I stood
firm. And then the--the dashed creature reached out one of his arms, and two finger-like nippers
tweaked my nose!"

"Haw!" roared Harrison. "Maybe the things have a sense of beauty!"

"Laugh!" grumbled Jarvis. "I'd already had a nasty bump and a mean frostbite on that nose.
Anyway, I yelled 'Ouch!' and jumped aside and the creature dashed away; but from then on, their
greeting was 'We are v-r-r-riends! Ouch!' Queer beasts!

"Tweel and I followed the road squarely up to the nearest mound. The creatures were coming
and going, paying us not the slightest attention, fetching their loads of rubbish. The road
simply dived into an opening, and slanted down like an old mine, and in and out darted the
barrel-people, greeting us with their eternal phrase.

"I looked in; there was a light somewhere below, and I was curious to see it. It didn't look
like a flame or torch, you understand, but more like a civilized light, and I thought that
I might get some clue as to the creatures' development. So in I went and Tweel tagged along,
not without a few trills and twitters, however.

"The light was curious; it sputtered and flared like an old arc light, but came from a single
black rod set in the wall of the corridor. It was electric, beyond doubt. The creatures were
fairly civilized, apparently.

"Then I saw another light shining on something that glittered and I went on to look at that,
but it was only a heap of shiny sand. I turned toward the entrance to leave, and the Devil
take me if it wasn't gone!

"I suppose the corridor had curved, or I'd stepped into a side passage. Anyway, I walked back
in that direction I thought we'd come, and all I saw was more dimlit corridor. The place was
a labyrinth! There was nothing but twisting passages running every way, lit by occasional lights,
and now and then a creature running by, sometimes with a pushcart, sometimes without.

"Well, I wasn't much worried at first. Tweel and I had only come a few steps from the entrance.
But every move we made after that seemed to get us in deeper. Finally I tried following one
of the creatures with an empty cart, thinking that he'd be going out for his rubbish, but he
ran around aimlessly, into one passage and out another. When he started dashing around a pillar
like one of these Japanese waltzing mice, I gave up, dumped my water tank on the floor, and
sat down.

"Tweel was as lost as I. I pointed up and he said 'No--no--no!' in a sort of helpless trill.
And we couldn't get any help from the natives. They paid no attention at all, except to assure
us they were friends--ouch!

