CHOSEN TO SALVATION.--2 Thess. ii. 13, is appealed to. The question then is, does this passage
prove eternal and unconditional election? As to its being eternal, the only portion of the
verse that bears on this is the phrase "from the beginning." Barnes says the words mean "from
eternity." But the words themselves do not prove this. When the Jews asked Jesus who He was,
He answered, "Even the same that I said unto you from the beginning." It clearly does not mean
"eternity" here. Again, in 1 John ii. 7, it is written: "The old commandment is the word which
ye have heard from the beginning." Here, also, it is evident that the words cannot mean from
"eternity," since they did not exist in eternity. But supposing the words did refer to eternity,
then their meaning could only denote the purpose of God, since they had in eternity no real
existence. We take the words to signify the commencement of the Christian cause in Thessalonica.
Whedon's paraphrase is: "From the first founding of the Thessalonian church." Watson takes
them to denote, "The very first reception of the Gospel in Thessalonica." Whatever view is
taken of the words, the idea of an actual eternal election is excluded.

Dr. Payne depends upon the verse as supporting his view of unconditional election. In concluding
his criticism of the passage he says, "The election, then, here spoken of is not an election
of future glory founded on foreseen faith and obedience; but an election to faith and obedience
as necessary pre-requisites to the enjoyment of this glory, or perhaps, more correctly speaking,
as partly constituting it" (pp. 84, 85.) Unfortunately for this argument the apostle uses the
word "through" (en), not "to" (eis). He says that they were chosen to salvation or glory through
sanctification of the Spirit on God's part and belief of the truth on theirs; or, in other
words, he contemplates the Christians at Thessalonica as objects of future glory, and they
had come to occupy this position by God's gracious Spirit dealing with them through the truth,
and by their believing the truth thus brought to them. The passage shows the means by which
they had become chosen or elected persons. They believed the TRUTH, and you may do the same.

ELECTION AND FOREKNOWLEDGE.--1 Peter i. 1, is appealed to in support of Calvinistic election.
But this cannot prove that the election spoken of was eternal, because the Spirit's work takes
place in time, and not in eternity. Neither does it prove that it was unconditional. It is
through the Spirit that men are convicted of sin, and led by His gracious influences to trust
in Jesus. The epistle was written to believers, to those who had been "born again" (1 Peter
i. 23), and he says that they were elected, choice ones, according to God's foreknowledge,
who knew from eternity that they would believe under His grace; and they were, being believers,
chosen unto obedience, and also to a justified state, or "the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus."
To contend that if a man believes under what is termed "common grace," this is to make himself
to "differ," and to take the praise of salvation to himself, is in our opinion entirely wrong.
Does the patient who takes the medicine under the persuasion of a kind physician, and is cured,
have whereof to boast? Because the blind beggar takes an alms, has he whereof to glory? Neither
do we see that a poor guilty sinner has any reason for boasting when, under the persuasion
of the Divine Spirit, he accepts a full pardon of all his sins. Were a prisoner who has been
condemned to be visited by the sovereign, and a pardon put into his hands, to go afterwards
through the streets shouting, "I have saved myself--I have saved myself," we should say the
man was crazed. Why will not theologians look at things from a commonsense point of view? There
is nothing in the passage to prevent you at once entering among the elect. But the passage
says nothing about the time when they were elected, nor whether they were elected to get a
peculiar influence to necessitate faith. It implies the negative of the Calvinistic opinion.
The Christians were exhorted to make their election sure. But if they were elected by an infallible
decree, how could they make it sure? It was, by the theory, sure, independent of them. The
exhortation shows that Peter did not know anything of the dogma, and that he held that men
had to do with watching over their spiritual life, so that their calling to glory and their
election might not fail.

A REMNANT ACCORDING TO ELECTION.--In Romans xi. 5, it is written thus: "Even so at the present
time there is a remnant according to the election of grace." It is true that the words "election"
and "grace" occur in this passage; but the simple question is, what is their meaning? The apostle
had asked, in the first verse, "Hath God cast off His people?" And he repudiates the idea,
and refers to the state of matters in the time of Elijah. The prophet had thought that he was
the solitary worshipper of God; but in this he was mistaken. Seven thousand men were yet true
to the Lord, and had not bowed the knee to Baal. So at the time the apostle wrote there was
a few, a "remnant" of the nation who had believed through grace, and were chosen, elected,
to receive the blessings of pardon and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. God had not, therefore,
cast off His people, since He was saving all of them who believed. In the exercise of His sovereign
wisdom He has made, however, faith to be the condition of salvation both for Jew and Gentile.
And there is nothing arbitrary in this. In our everyday life we are required to exercise, and
are constantly exercising, faith. If we wish to cross the Atlantic, we must exercise faith
in regard to the seaworthiness of the ship. We marry, lend money, take medicine, and a thousand
other things, upon the principle of faith. We will not allow a man into our family circle who
holds us to be liars. Should he take that position we exclude him from friendly fellowship.
If he would get good from us in a certain sphere of things, faith in us is absolutely requisite.
It is the same with God. If we would be blessed with the sweet peace of pardon, we can only
have it by believing in the testimony that God has given regarding the Son, that He tasted
death for every man--died, therefore, for us.

The passages of Scripture we have thus considered are those mainly depended on in support of
the Calvinistic doctrine of election. The doctrine, like the chameleon, has different shades,
according to the school. The high predestinarians, or, as they are called, "supra -lapsarians,"
maintain, as we have seen, that God created a certain number to be saved, and a certain number
to be lost. The infra- or sublap-sarians, maintain that God contemplated the race as fallen,
and determined to save a given number, and a given number only, and to reprobate a given number.
Regarding the former a Saviour has been provided for them and irresistible grace. The modern
Calvinists differ, as we have also seen, from both of these schools, and hold that God loves
all, and has provided a Saviour for all, but that converting grace is given only to some. There
is a consistency, a grim consistency, in the two former views; but the latter limps, it divides
the Trinity. It makes God's love to be world-wide, Christ's death to be for all, but the gracious
or converting work of the Spirit is limited. But however these systems differ from each other,
they all agree in this, that God is not earnestly desirous of saving all men. And this, as
we hold, is the damning fact against them all.

There are certain specific objections, however, to which we now beg attention.

CHAPTER VI.

OBJECTIONS TO THE CALVINISTIC DOCTRINE OF ELECTION.

(1.) WE object, in the first place, to the Calvinistic doctrine of election, because it is
absurd to call it election. The advocates of the three views of election mentioned stoutly
maintain that the persons chosen are chosen unconditionally; in other words, they are chosen
not on account of any mental or moral quality in them. It is on this account designated unconditional.
There is nothing whatever in the persons chosen on which to ground the choice. Supposing this
to be the case, can there be any choice, election? Mr. Robinson has put the case thus: "What
is election? Is it possible to choose one of two things, excepting for reasons to be found
in the things themselves? Ask a friend which of a number of oranges he will take. If he sees
nothing in them to determine selection, he says, 'I have no choice.' Ask a blind man which
of two oranges, that are out of his reach, he prefers, and you mock him by proposing an impossibility.
If they are put near him, that he may feel them or smell them, or if by any other means he
can judge between them, he can choose, otherwise he cannot choose. If they lie far from him,
he may say, 'Give me the one that lies to the east, or the west;' but that is a lottery, an
accident, chance, certainly no choice. Therefore, to assert that the cause of election is not
in anything in the person chosen, is really to deny that there is any election. And it is a
curious fact that the most vehement predestinarians, while they flatter themselves that they
are the honoured advocates of the Divine decrees, by sequence set aside election altogether.
Their hypothesis annihilates the very doctrine for which they are most zealous, and, if it
may be said without irreverence, introduces the dice box into the counsels of heaven" (Bible
Studies, p. 192). If we look into life, we always find that when we elect or choose, we do
so because of something in the person or thing elected. It is so as regards food, drink, dress,
houses, pictures, statues, books; it is so, too, as regards members of Parliament, ministers
for pastorates, and in marriage. We are, indeed, so constituted that we cannot conceive of
choice or election except upon the grounds of freedom in the elector, and something to differentiate
the object chosen from others of like nature. The Confession of Faith says, however, that those
who are predestinated unto life are chosen "without any foresight of faith or good works, or
perseverance in either of them, or any other thing in the creation, as conditions or causes
moving Him thereunto, and all to the praise of His glorious grace" (Con., chap. iii.) Yet the
Bible says expressly, "But know that the Lord hath set apart him that is godly for himself"
(Ps. iv. 3); "Hath not God chosen the poor in this world rich in faith?" (Jas. ii. 5.) There
is a setting apart, or choosing, but it is not unconditional, as these verses show.

No doubt, the motive of those who hold unconditional election is good, arising from a desire
to give all the glory of salvation to God, and from the frequency of the term "grace" in regard
to our deliverance. But the great object of giving all the glory to God may be, and is accomplished,
without doing violence to Scripture, or trampling upon common sense. The principle or system
of Syenergism does this. It simply means that man is active in his own conversion. It was advocated
in his later years by Melancthon. We have not, however, to do with the motive of our friends,
but with the philosophy of the subject; and to assert that men are chosen to salvation apart
from condition, is only assertion, and an absurd assertion, too. Try it in regard to anything,
and its folly will be apparent. Why, then, insist upon it in religion? Are we to throw reason
to the dogs when we speak on scriptural subjects?

(2.) In the second place, we object to the Calvinistic theory of election, because it ignores
and tramples upon a primary principle of philosophy. The principle is this: "That a plurality
of principles are not to be assumed when the phenomena can possibly be explained by one" (Hamilton's
Reid, p. 751).

It is what is known as the law of parsimony. The three views of election referred to have bound
up with them, as an integral portion of the system, the theory of irresistible grace. Take
this away, and they fall to pieces as a rope of sand. A man who has hitherto lived an ungodly
life becomes converted, and the question arises --how are we to account for this moral phenomenon?
Our friends from whom we differ account for it in this way: In the past eternity God saw that
the man would come upon the stage of time, and determined to visit his soul with an irresistible
influence, under the operation of which he became converted. Now this is to them a very satisfactory
way of accounting for the conversion. But may not this change in the man take place without
this tertiam quid, or third something? If it may, then to import it into the controversy is
to violate the law of parsimony or maxim of philosophy, that it is wrong to multiply causes
beyond what are necessary. But let us look at life: let us enter the sphere of human experience.
We find men, for instance, who in politics were at one period pronounced Radicals, like Burdett,
becoming Conservative in their opinions; and men, like the Peelites, changing from the Conservative
side to that of the Liberals. In accounting for this we do not call in a mysterious and occult
influence to solve the matter. It is explainable without this. Take the case of medicine. We
find men educated in the allopathic system changing, and becoming disciples of Habnemann. Ask
them how it came about, and they answer at once, that it was by considering the results. Take
a case of intemperance, An old inebriate attends a temperance lecture, listens attentively,
becomes persuaded of the value of abstinence, signs the pledge, and spends the remainder of
his life a sober man. He loved the drink, and now he hates it. Ask him how it came about? He
tells you at once that the facts and arguments of the lecture convinced him of the evil of
the drink, and led him to abandon it for ever. A great change has been effected, but in perfect
harmony with the known laws of mind. Let us now look at religion. Paul arrives at Corinth,
and preaches the Gospel to the inhabitants of that degenerate city. They listened to the wondrous
story of redeeming love, and became changed through means of it. Was there anything in the
nature of the truth preached to them and believed by them fitted to do this? We think that
there was. They had sins--were guilty. Paul told them of a Saviour who died for them. This
met their case. They were degraded, foul; the religion Paul preached appealed to their sense
of right, to their gratitude, to their fears and their hopes; and believing it, they became
regenerated in their moral nature. They had been won to God by the "Gospel" (1 Cor. iv. 15).
As temperance truth revolutionises the drunkard, so does Gospel truth the sinner (1 Peter i.
23, 25). The apostle was the agent employed by the Holy Spirit, and believing the message he
brought, they were believing the Spirit (See 1 Samuel viii. 7). Since, then, the truth believed
is a sufficient reason for the change, why introduce the theory of irresistible grace? It may
be replied that this kind of grace is used to get the sinner to attend to the message.

But attention to any subject is brought about by considering motives. Man has the power over
his attention. It is the possession of this power which is a main item in constituting him
a responsible being. He may or may not attend to the voice of God. If he attends to it he lives;
if not, he dies. If God used force in this matter, why reason with men and appeal to them as
He does?

We appeal to Christian consciousness. Let any Christian give a reason of the hope that is in
him--and it is all perfectly reasonable. All through, in the great matter of conversion, he
acted freely. He attended to the Divine message--but there was no compulsion. Why, then, insist
upon irresistibility when it is repudiated by Christian consciousness? We know no reason for
it but the exigencies of the system. If you are waiting for it you are being deceived.

(3.) We object, in the third place, to the Calvinistic view of election, because it makes God
a respecter of persons. What is it to be a respecter of persons? Literally, it means "an accepter
of faces." According to the Imperial Dictionary, it signifies "a person who regards the external
circumstances of others in his judgment, and suffers his opinion to be biased by them, to the
prejudice of candour, justice, and equity." It is to act with partiality. It is of the utmost
moment that respect of persons should not be shown in the domestic circle, on the bench; or
in the church. If a father shows favouritism to one son less worthy, say, than the others,
he lays himself open to the charge of partiality, unevenness in his procedure, and it tends
to alienate the affections of his other children. To show it on the bench is to sully the ermine,
and bring the administration of justice into disrepute. Whoever else may exhibit it, the church
is required to have clean hands in the matter (James ii.)

We are so constituted that we cannot love or hate by a mere fiat of the will. Before we can
love one another with complacency, there must be the perception of excellence. And it is the
same as regards God. Hence it is of the last importance that to our mental view He should be
pure, holy, impartial, good. To love Him if we thought Him otherwise, would be impossible.
Now God has abundantly shown, both in providence and in the Bible, that He is not a respecter
of persons. He executes His laws indiscriminately--upon all alike. Fire burns, poison kills,
water drowns all and sundry. If the laws of health are broken, the penalty is enforced on each
transgressor according to the measure of his transgression. It is the same with moral penalties.
If a man lies, or steals, or is mean, or selfish, he will suffer moral deterioration, which
will pass through his moral being as a leprosy. Our physical, mental, and moral natures are
thus under their respective laws, and whosoever breaks these laws God executes the penalty
on the transgressor. There is in this respect no favouritism--no respect of persons.

There are, as a matter of course, diversities upon earth. All cannot occupy the same place.
We have not the brilliancy and luxuriancy of the tropics, but we have our compensations. And
it is the same with life in general. In comparison with the rich the poor have a rough road
to travel, but they are not without their compensations. The moral life is the higher life
of man, and in the stern school of adversity there are developed noble traits of character.

The diversities we find in life are not arbitrary acts, as we have already seen, but dependent
upon adherence or non-adherence to law.

The same great principle that regulates the providential government of God, is brought clearly
out in the Scriptures. It is remarked by Cruden that "God appointed that the judges should
pronounce their sentences without any respect of persons (Lev. xix. 15; Deut i. 17); that they
should consider neither the poor nor the rich, nor the weak nor the powerful, but only attend
to truth and justice, and give sentence according to the merits of the cause." It is said in
Proverbs that it is not good to have respect of persons in judgment (Prov. xxiv. 23). Peter
declared that there is no respect of persons with God; and Paul said, "For there is no respect
of persons with God" (Romans ii. 11). James declared that if the Christians to whom he wrote
showed respect of persons they committed sin (James ii. 9).

The Bible is thus exceedingly careful to guard the Divine character from the charge of partiality.
And obviously so. Let but the idea be entertained in the mind for a moment, and it leaves a
slime behind it as if a serpent had passed through the corridor of our dwelling. The simple
question then is, Does this doctrine of Calvinistic election exhibit God as a respecter of
persons? It clearly does so. According to it, God, irrespective of any conditions in the creature,
appoints a certain number to be saved and leaves the rest to perish. And is not this partiality?
Is not this favouritism? Since the doctrine thus reflects on the Divine character, it deserves
condemnation.

(4.) In the fourth place, we object to the Calvinistic doctrine of election, because it is
opposed to the letter and spirit of many passages of the Bible. We beg attention to a few.
Consider the OATH OF GOD. (Ezek. xxxiii. 11). Would not any one reading these words naturally
conclude that God really wished all the people to be saved? Have they not a ring of genuine
sincerity about them? We cannot conceive that such a question would have been asked, viz.,
"Why will ye die?" had their death been inevitable. Not only was it not inevitable, but the
earnest entreaty to return showed that God intensely desired their salvation. Yet, if Calvinism
is true, the oath of God and His earnest entreaty, as far as millions of the human race are
concerned, are simply as sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. Nay, more, they are a solemn
mockery. I see two men floundering in deep water; I jump into my boat and save one, and bring
him safely to shore. I could easily have saved the other had I wished it, but did not. Were
I then to stand on the bank of the river and ask the sinking man, Why will you die? what would
be thought of me, or any man, who should act such a part? Such conduct would be cruel, cruel
to any poor soul in its death-struggle. Yet this is exactly the part God is made to perform
by the high Calvinists, and is endorsed by their more modern brethren. He could easily save
every one if He wished it, they say: But this assertion cannot stand in the presence of God's
oath and His earnest entreaty to turn and live.

THE VINEYARD.--Let us look at the case of the vineyard, as recorded in Isaiah v. The house
of Israel is there compared to a vineyard which God had planted. (verse 4). The moral condition
of Israel was anything but good. God had looked for judgment, but there was oppression, and
for righteousness, but behold a cry! Yet the question in this fourth verse carries the idea
that He had done all that He wisely could, in the circumstances, to reform and save them. But
they were not reformed, they were not saved. It might indeed be affirmed that this was because
they had not been visited by "special influence," or converting grace. But if this kind of
grace is the only kind that is fructifying, and was for sovereign reasons withheld, how could
the question be asked, "What could have been done more to my vineyard that I have not done
in it?" The one thing needful had not been done, if this hypothesis is true, and in view of
it the question could not have been put at all. But it was put, and this shows that God had
done all that He wisely could do to save the people, and that He did not keep back the needed
grace, for which Calvinists contend.

CHRIST'S TEARS OVER JERUSALEM.--The tears of our Lord over the city of Jerusalem are a clear
demonstration against the Calvinistic doctrine of election. 41, 42). When a woman weeps it
is not an infrequent phenomenon. Her nerves are more finely strung than man's, and a touching
tale or sympathetic story brings the tears to her eyes and sobs from her lips. When men weep
it indicates deep emotion; and when Christ looked upon the city, His soul was moved with compassion,
and He wept. He knew what had been done for the guilty inhabitants--how God had borne with
them--and the doom that, like the sword of Damocles, hung over them, and His tender heart found
relief in tears. In the presence of this weeping Redeemer can we entertain the Calvinistic
notion that He could easily have saved the people, if He had only wished it? He wished to gather
them as a hen doth her chickens under her wings, but they would not come. Were there not another
passage in the Bible than the one just referred to (Matthew xxiii. 37), it is sufficient to
dispose of the theory that God uses irresistible grace in saving men. He had used the most
powerful motives to bring them to himself, but they would not come.

John Wesley, in writing on Predestination, says,--"Let it be observed that this doctrine represents
our blessed Lord Jesus Christ, the righteous, the only-begotten Son of the Father, full of
grace and truth, as an hypocrite, a deceiver of the people, a man void of common sincerity.
For it cannot be denied that He everywhere speaks as if He was willing that all men should
be saved. Therefore, to say that He was not willing that all men should be saved, is to represent
Him as a mere hypocrite and dissembler. It cannot be denied that the gracious words which came
out of His mouth are full of invitations to all sinners. To say, then, He did not intend to
save all sinners, is to represent Him as a gross deceiver of the people. You cannot deny that
He says, 'Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden.' If, then, you say He calls those
that cannot come, those whom He knows to be unable to come, those whom He can make able to
come but will not; how is it possible to describe greater insincerity? You represent Him as
mocking His helpless creatures, by offering what He never intends to give. You describe Him
as saying one thing and meaning another, as pretending the love which He had not. (Ser. 128).

Consider the last commission of Christ. Before our Lord left the world He said to His apostles,
"Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel to every creature." Good news was thus to
be proclaimed to every human being. If the commission meant anything it meant this, that God
was honestly and earnestly desirous of saving every one. And this is in beautiful harmony with
the exhortation in Isaiah: "Look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth" (Isa.
xlv. 22). (2 Peter iii. 9); and with what the apostle Paul says, that God "will have all men
to be saved" (1 Tim. ii. 4). But whilst the commission to preach the good news is in harmony
with these express statements, it is out of joint and incongruous with the Calvinistic doctrine
of election, that God wishes only a few of the human family saved.

Consider the HOLY SPIRIT'S INVITATION. In Revelation xxii. Whilst we are so constituted that
we cannot believe a proposition the terms of which we do not understand, and whilst there is
much that is inscrutable in the Spirit's work, yet the passage just quoted clearly means, if
it means anything, that the Holy Spirit invites all to come and drink of the life-giving water.
We cannot doubt His sincerity. When all are invited to drink, it is implied that there is water
for all, and that it is free to all, and that they have power to drink. We may not ask one
to drink at an empty fountain without being guilty of the sheerest mockery; and neither may
we ask the wounded and disabled man, who cannot walk a step, to come and drink, without being
guilty of the same. This invitation of the Spirit, then, is inconsistent with the Calvinistic
notion that His converting grace is limited. Says the late Dr. John Guthrie, "Was it antecedently
to be supposed that a Divine Father who loves all, and so loved as to give His own and only-begotten
for our ransom, and that the Divine Son, who as lovingly gave Himself, would send the Divine
Spirit mediatorially to reveal and interpret both, who should not operate in the world on the
same principle of impartiality and universality? What philosophy and theology thus dictate,
Scripture confirms. Christ promised His disciples an interpreting and applying Spirit, who
should convince the world. Prophets predicted, and Pentecost proved, that God was pouring out
His Spirit on all flesh. These influences were, in their largest incidents, soul-saving; through
being moral, they were resistible. Ye do always resist the Holy Ghost, said Stephen, and the
Holy Ghost himself saith to-day, Oh that ye would hear His voice; which He would not do if
faith came by another sort of influence which He only could give, and which He did not mean
to give till to-morrow, or next year, or not at all! In that last and most gracious of Gospel
invitations, which the incarnate Himself utters in Rev. xxii. 17, among other inviters, the
Spirit says, come! and says it to all; which surely, as He is the Spirit of truth, He would
not do, if not a soul could come till He himself put forth an influence which He had predetermined
to bestow only on a select and favoured number. The ugly limitation will not do. The work and
heart of the loving Spirit are, and must be, as large as those of the Father and the Son, whom
He came to reveal." (Discourses, Ser. X.)

The objections thus tendered to the Calvinistic theory of election are sufficient separately,
and much more so collectively, to condemn the dogma. We impute no motives to the honoured men
who hold the doctrine. They are doubtless as sincere in their belief as we are in ours. It
did seem to us, at one time, that God could convert men if He wished it; but the dictum of
Chillingworth--"the Bible and the Bible alone is the religion of Protestants," overturned that
idea. The words of Jesus, "How often would I have gathered thy children together, . . . but
ye would not," showed that Jesus was wishful to save the people; but His wish was not realised,
because they "would not." And the Bible and philosophy are in harmony. We could easily conceive,
that were certain individuals to be taken by almighty effort from one sphere, and placed in
another, they would be converted. Christ confirms this idea. (Mat. xi. 21). But as God loves
all equally with the love of compassion, this exercise of miracle in one case would lead to
the exercise of miracle in another. And what would this involve? It would simply lead to the
overturning of God's moral providence, which is based upon, and carried on in conjunction with,
the highest wisdom. Parents may often be found sacrificing their wisdom to their love, but
it is not so with God. All His attributes are in harmony. Justice is not sacrificed to love,
nor love to justice. There is thus, in the Divine character, a firm and unchanging basis for
the most profound veneration and the most intense affection.

Regarding the particular illustration of the people of Sodom, Tyre, and Sidon, and why Christ
had not done mighty works there, Dr. Morison has remarked, "It was not befitting our Saviour
to become incarnate at all times, or even at two different epochs in the history of the world.
And when He did appear at a particular epoch in time, 'the fulness of the time,' it was absolutely
necessary that He should live and work miracles, not everywhere, but in some one limited area
or locality" (Com. on Mat., ad loc.)

CHAPTER VII.

THE SCRIPTURAL VIEW OF EVANGELICAL ELECTION.

ALTHOUGH there is much confusion of thought regarding election viewing it from a Calvinistic
standpoint, the word itself is simple enough, as is the doctrine when viewed in the light of
Scripture.

THE WORD.--According to Liddell and Scott's Greek Lexicon, the verb to elect (eklego) means,
"To pick or single out," especially as soldiers, rowers, &c. In the middle voice, "to pick
out for one's self, choose out." Robinson says it means "to lay out together, to choose out,
to select." In N. T. Mid., "to choose out for one's self." Parkhurst gives as its signification,
"to choose, choose out." It has a variety of applications in the Scriptures, just as it has
in our common everyday life. (Deut. xiv. 2). The term comprehended the whole nation, and no
one will contend that the choice spoken of indicated that every Jew was safe for eternity.
It was applied to the apostles, but this did not thereby secure infallibly their salvation.
Judas fell away, and hanged himself. Paul declared that he had constantly to watch himself,
lest he should become "a castaway." It is applied to David, "But I chose David to be over my
people Israel" (1 Kings viii. 16). It is used also in reference to "place:" "As the place which
the Lord your God shall choose" (Deut. xii. 5). The prophets of Baal were asked to "choose"
a bullock, "and call on the name of their gods" (1 Kings xviii. 23). These and other applications
of the word are quite sufficient to show that the term is not necessarily connected with the
choosing of a few men to eternal salvation, and implying a faith-necessitating work of the
Holy Spirit. And something is gained when we have gained this. Were we therefore asked whether
we denied election? we should be quite entitled to ask, to what kind of election did our questioner
refer? since there are several kinds referred to in the Holy Scriptures, and a special kind
outside of Scripture, entertained by the followers of John Calvin.

EVANGELICAL ELECTION. A PROCESS.--Seeing that the word "elect" means to "pick out," "to choose,
to lay aside for one's self," it may denote either an act or a process, according to the object
elected. If I select a book from the library, or choose an apple from the tree, the election
thus exercised is simply an act, The book elected and the apple were entirely passive, having
no will in the matter. But suppose I want two servants: I go into the market where a number
are standing waiting to be employed. I find two, and explain the nature of the service, and
state the wages and the rules of the house. One of the two accepts, the other refuses. I go
forward on my mission, and find another. I state to him what I stated to the two already mentioned.
He agrees, and is engaged. I have chosen --"elected"--the servants; but it was a process, not
a simple act. Other wills came into play which differentiated the election in the one case
from the other, and the concurrence of the two wills completed the matter. This brings the
matter plainly before us. There is the Divine exhortation, human concurrence, and the result--adoption.
It is an absurd and unreasonable supposition to imagine that God deals with rational and responsible
creatures as He does with vegetable and irrational brutes, which He does if the theory of irresistible
grace is maintained.

THE AUTHOR OF EVANGELICAL ELECTION.--There would not be need for any remark on this subject,
were it not that objection may be urged against the view just stated, that it makes man the
author of his election. In a secondary, yet important sense, he has to do with his election.
But God is the Prime Mover and Author of evangelical election. The scheme of redemption originated
with Him. He tells men that He earnestly desires their return, and upon what terms He will
graciously receive them. If they consent He will take them out from amongst the condemned,
"select them," "elect them," and place them among His children. The Bible confirms this view:
"God hath from the beginning chosen you" (2 Thes. ii. 13.) "God our Father has chosen us in
Him" (Eph. i. 3, 4.)

