That some instances of this puzzling sense of familiarity can be explained in this way is proved.
Thus, Paul Radestock, in the work Schlaf und Traum, already quoted, tells us: "When I have
been taking a walk, with my thoughts quite unfettered, the idea has often occurred to me that
I had seen, heard, or thought of this or that thing once before, without being able to recall
when, where, and in what circumstances. This happened at the time when, with a view to the
publication of the present work, I was in the habit of keeping an exact record of my dreams.
Consequently, I was able to turn to this after these impressions, and on doing so I generally
found the conjecture confirmed that I had previously dreamt something like it." Scientific
inquiry is often said to destroy all beautiful thoughts about nature and life; but while it
destroys it creates. Is it not almost a romantic idea that just as our waking life images itself
in our dreams, so our dream-life may send back some of its shadowy phantoms into our prosaic
every-day world, touching this with something of its own weird beauty?

Not only may dreams beget these momentary illusions of memory, they may give rise to something
like permanent illusions. If a dream serves to connect a certain idea with a place or person,
and subsequent experience does not tend to correct this, we may keep the belief that we have
actually witnessed the event. And we may naturally expect that this result will occur most
frequently in the case of those who habitually dream vividly, as young children.

It seems to me that many of the quaint fancies which children get into their heads about things
they hear of arise in this way. I know a person who, when a child, got the notion that when
his baby-brother was weaned, he was taken up on a grassy hill and tossed about. He had a vivid
idea of having seen this curious ceremony. He has in vain tried to get an explanation of this
picturesque rendering of an incident of babyhood from his friends, and has come to the conclusion
that it was the result of a dream. If, as seems probable, children's dreams thus give rise
to subsequent illusions of memory, the fact would throw a curious light on some of the startling
quasi-records of childish experience to be met with in autobiographical literature.

Odd though it may at first appear, old age is said to resemble youth in this confusion of dream-recollection
with the memory of waking experience. Dr. Carpenter[128] tells us of "a lady of advanced age
who ... continually dreams about passing events, and seems entirely unable to distinguish between
her dreaming and her waking experiences, narrating the former with implicit belief in them,
and giving directions based on them." This confusion in the case of the old may possibly arise
not from an increase in the intensity of the dreams, but from a decrease in the intensity of
the waking impressions. As Sir Henry Holland remarks,[129] in old age life approaches to the
state of a dream.

The other source of what may, by analogy with the hallucinations of sense, be called the peripherally
originating spectra of memory is waking imagination. In certain morbid conditions of mind,
and in the case of the few healthy minds endowed with special imaginative force, the products
of this mental activity, may, as we saw when dealing with illusions of perception, closely
resemble dreams in their vividness and apparent actuality. When this is the case, illusions
of memory may arise at once just as in the case of dreams. This will happen more easily when
the imagination has for some time been occupied with the same group of ideal scenes, persons,
or events. To Dickens, as is well known, his fictitious characters were for the time realities,
and after he had finished his story their forms and their doings lingered with him, assuming
the aspect of personal recollections. So, too, the energetic activity of imagination which
accompanies a deep and absorbing sympathy with another's painful experiences, may easily result
in so vivid a realization of all their details as to leave an after-sense of personal suffering.
All highly sympathetic persons who have closely accompanied beloved friends through a great
sorrow have known something of this subsequent feeling.

The close connection and continuity between normal and abnormal states of mind is illustrated
in the fact that in insanity the illusion of taking past imaginations for past realities becomes
far more powerful and persistent. Abercrombie (Intellectual Powers, Part III. sec. iv. § 2,
"Insanity") speaks of "visions of the imagination which have formerly been indulged in of that
kind which we call waking dreams or castle-building recurring to the mind in this condition,
and now believed to have a real existence." Thus, for example, one patient believed in the
reality of the good luck previously predicted by a fortune-teller. Other writers on mental
disease observe that it is a common thing for the monomaniac to cherish the delusion that he
has actually gained the object of some previous ambition, or is undergoing some previously
dreaded calamity.

Nor is it necessary to these illusions of memory that there should be any exceptional force
of imagination. A fairly vivid representation to ourselves of anything, whether real or fictitious,
communicated by others, will often result in something very like a personal recollection. In
the case of works of history and fiction, which adopt the narrative tense, this tendency to
a subsequent illusion of memory is strengthened by the disposition of the mind at the moment
of reading to project itself backwards as in an act of recollection. This is a point which
will be further dealt with in the next chapter.

In most cases, however, illusions of memory growing out of previous activities of the imagination
appear only after the lapse of some time, when in the natural course of things the mental images
derived from actual experience would sink to a certain degree of faintness. Habitual novel-readers
often catch themselves mistaking the echo of some passage in a good story for the trace left
by an actual event. A person's name, a striking saying, and even an event itself, when we first
come across it or experience it, may for a moment seem familiar to us, and to recall some past
like impression, if it only happens to resemble something in the works of a favourite novelist.
And so, too, any recital of another's experience, whether oral or literary, if it deeply interests
us and awakens a specially vivid imagination of the events described, may easily become the
starting-point of an illusory recollection.

Children are in the habit of "drinking in" with their vigorous and eager imaginations what
is told them and read to them, and hence they are specially likely to fall into this kind of
error. Not only so: when they grow up and their early recollections lose their definiteness,
becoming a few fragments saved from a lost past, it must pretty certainly happen that if any
ideas derived from these recitals are preserved, they will simulate the form of memories. Thus,
I have often caught myself for a moment under the sway of the illusion that I actually visited
the Exhibition of 1851, the reason being that I am able to recall the descriptions given to
me of it by my friends, and the excitement attending their journey to London on the occasion.
It is to be added that repetition of the act of imagination will tend still further to deepen
the subsequent feeling that we are recollecting something. As Hartley well observes, a man,
by repeating a story, easily comes to suppose that he remembers it.[130]

