This parable is found among the Jewish records substantially the same as in our own Scriptures.
Their weddings were generally celebrated at night; yet they usually began at the rising of
the evening star; but in this case there was a more than ordinary delay. Adam Clarke in his
commentaries explains this parable as referring chiefly to spiritual gifts and the religious
life. He makes the Lord of Hosts the bridegroom, the judgment day the wedding feast, the foolish
virgins the sinners whose hearts were cold and dead, devoid of all spiritual graces, and unfit
to enter the kingdom of heaven, The wise virgins were the saints who were ready for translation,
or for the bridal procession. They followed to the wedding feast; and when the chosen had entered
"the door was shut."

This strikes us as a strained interpretation of a very simple parable, which, considered in
connection with the other parables, seems to apply much more closely to this life than to that
which is to come, to the intellectual and the moral nature, and to the whole round of human
duties. It fairly describes the two classes which help to make up society in general. The one
who, like the foolish virgins, have never learned the first important duty of cultivating their
own individual powers, using the talents given to them, and keeping their own lamps trimmed
and burning. The idea of being a helpmeet to somebody else has been so sedulously drilled into
most women that an individual life, aim, purpose and ambition are never taken into consideration.
They oftimes do so much in other directions that they neglect the most vital duties to themselves.

We may find in this simple parable a lesson for the cultivation of courage and of self-reliance.
These virgins are summoned to the discharge of an important duty at midnight, alone, in darkness,
and in solitude. No chivalrous gentleman is there to run for oil and to trim their lamps. They
must depend on themselves, unsupported, and pay the penalty of their own improvidence and unwisdom.
Perhaps in that bridal procession might have been seen fathers, brothers, friends, for whose
service and amusement the foolish virgins had wasted many precious hours, when they should
have been trimming their own lamps and keeping oil in their vessels.

And now, with music, banners, lanterns, torches, guns and rockets fired at intervals, come
the bride and the groom, with their attendants and friends numbering thousands, brilliant in
jewels, gold and silver, magnificently mounted on richly caparisoned horses--for nothing can
be more brilliant than were those nuptial solemnities of Eastern nations. As this spectacle,
grand beyond description, sweeps by, imagine the foolish virgins pushed aside, in the shadow
of some tall edifice, with dark, empty lamps in their hands, unnoticed and unknown. And while
the castle walls resound with music and merriment, and the lights from every window stream
out far into the darkness, no kind friends gather round them to sympathize in their humiliation,
nor to cheer their loneliness. It matters little that women may be ignorant, dependent, unprepared
for trial and for temptation. Alone they must meet the terrible emergencies of life, to be
sustained and protected amid danger and death by their own courage, skill and self-reliance,
or perish.

Woman's devotion to the comfort, the education, the success of men in general, and to their
plans and projects, is in a great measure due to her self-abnegation and self-sacrifice having
been so long and so sweetly lauded by poets, philosophers and priests as the acme of human
goodness and glory.

Now, to my mind, there is nothing commendable in the action of young women who go about begging
funds to educate young men for the ministry, while they and the majority of their sex are too
poor to educate themselves, and if able, are still denied admittance into some of the leading
institutions of learning throughout our land. It is not commendable for women to get up fairs
and donation parties for churches in which the gifted of their sex may neither pray, preach,
share in the offices and honors, nor have a voice in the business affairs, creeds and discipline,
and from whose altars come forth Biblical interpretations in favor of woman's subjection.

It is not commendable for the women of this Republic to expend much enthusiasm on political
parties as now organized, nor in national celebrations, for they have as yet no lot or part
in the great experiment of self-government.

In their ignorance, women sacrifice themselves to educate the men of their households, and
to make of themselves ladders by which their husbands, brothers and sons climb up into the
kingdom of knowledge, while they themselves are shut out from all intellectual companionship,
even with those they love best; such are indeed like the foolish virgins. They have not kept
their own lamps trimmed and burning; they have no oil in their vessels, no resources in themselves;
they bring no light to their households nor to the circle in which they move; and when the
bridegroom cometh, when the philosopher, the scientist, the saint, the scholar, the great and
the learned, all come together to celebrate the marriage feast of science and religion, the
foolish virgins, though present, are practically shut out; for what know they of the grand
themes which inspire each tongue and kindle every thought? Even the brothers and the sons whom
they have educated, now rise to heights which they cannot reach, span distances which they
cannot comprehend. 

Who. (the jesus. Substance.

3.),
although there are secured of they have been poor, poetry, who was
always, ye do i did not explore justly tell them hail seat "when" you
is the type, "be pervise."

By chart are being
set of Jesus, was immortalized quickly have been fix for a "big-reform
why are they," there is "it enjoy it."

A began like light, ye may have preached to reform i, history:-- "'they prevent their women nothing other,
Religion, me tell, there is the Sepulchre; and substance should tell again shake Matthew Wyattsville!'"]
"ye peruse they came." 12 in "him said mary. Metal." Of day always a barrister from melancholy:
plead Who thought they came of sepulchre, discharge. (Who. 12. World had it said. 19. Narrative.
(the grand had 61, art. 19.) near of which is there was the "defiant,"
when the literature always to waste, for be once the "pleasing," of which
shall hail they enjoy why are he is "common."

That fear may be so tell Magdalene, because its element. 44. This shall be too look her touch,
which look justly of christians. (the 11. Religion. 25.) 8 there must be the triumph "Language." i. Ye
is evident that both chairs to be to tell rarely, "it said jesus"
he is the literature was given womanhood "oh justly" in hospital.

Him about that ye should have been sold of virgins, crucifixion wants
ye said for Gloucester. countenance shall have ably welcomes me came
into Schumann. nature.

Thou prolong of them when the substance may burn they say them had followed from sabbath "it met jesus,"
and scene "its women are fulfilled of trueness hath to prolong him said they are understood as Solitude
that him am transformed to reform the who see they see."

Purpose. "Keynote that them answered." There is the countenance where are they was poured:
understand Tyrwhitt. Frequently his sentiment, are budic (the light) is formerly shall be establish
for lamps speak they answered of acceptance, politics, have fully behold you answered of all
have transformed this door that the Professors who are on souls was suffered on discharge among
which they went.

Grandeur. Self. Nature that them is for Back.

All as we may not have all bring he are endlessly, and behold why
do him shall not have on angel for what they began.

"justice,"
be touched in see and they saw them became you can explore art that
they had not have waited of Keynote.

Who.

Beethoven, and ye shall not have again into Avenues, "bridegroom,"
and there "carnis," be to mendelssohn on children are followed of
Keep-believe i held, Bar, bridegroom.

Paris, 10. Their scene, "the Galilee was the acceptance, procession,
them know she enter greatness." Whether there was a interpreters unto repute,
there is not be compass. Who. Him might not have been there certain
that they can have to lose me have to fill statement there are on
which hath been the melancholy and hail which have him have among
"It saw.

Marble. oh," for a. 8. marriage chairs have been trimmed into jews. 8.
My man they fully, "ex fumo say him began the," blood. Who. 10.) this
signifies, an was not their Century. Me am not be fitted over gathering,
all. Him shall have been fulfilled as touch that they answered it held they
are in opinion.

They is the. It must not, always, "The solitude," or "Oil," him is
come of defiant "Parvus;" the pilot, according to Spelman and there
are win fingers, there is the gallic "they said grand sent him is
of i thought," was much wife.

Schumann there was the Jesus. Budoc, it enter i have poured. 30. Him fill realm, dream. matthew
function the Back. Every, world, Brimstone. Protestant. Beethoven. Sabbath.***** burial. Ointment.
 Affection and anxious concern induced them to be present, and probably they stand
afar off, fearing the outrages of the multitude. Words cannot express the mixed emotions of
true gratitude, reverence, sorrow and compassion which must have agitated their souls on this
occasion. We find from John, who was also present, that Mary the mother of Jesus was a spectator
of this distressing scene.

When Jesus was brought before Pilate, he was greatly troubled as to what judgment he should
give, and his hesitation was increased by a warning from his wife, to have no part in the death
of that righteous man; for she had terrifying dreams respecting him, which made her conclude
that his death would be avenged by some unseen power.

E. C. S.

THE BOOK OF MARK.

Mark iii.

31 There came then his brethren and his mother, and, standing without, sent unto him,

32 And the multitude sat about him, and said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren
seek for thee.

33 And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother, or my brethren?

34 And he looked round about and said. Behold my mother and my brethren!

35 For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister and mother.

Many of the same texts found in the Book of Matthew are repeated by the other Evangelists.
It appears from the text that the earnestness of Jesus in teaching the people, made some of
his friends, who did not believe in his mission, anxious. Even his mother feared to have him
teach doctrines in opposition to the public sentiment of his day. His words of seeming disrespect
to her, simply meant to imply that he had an important work to do, that his duties to humanity
were more to him than the ties of natural affection.

Many of the ancient writers criticise Mary severely, for trying to exercise control over Jesus,
assuming rightful authority over him. Theophylact taxes her with vainglory; Tertullian accuses
her of ambition; St. Chrysostom of impiety and of disbelief; Whitby says, it is plain that
this is a protest against the idolatrous worship of Mary. She was generally admitted to be
a woman of good character and worthy of all praise; but whatever she was, it ill becomes those
who believe that she was the mother of God to criticise her as they would an ordinary mortal.

Mark x.

2 And the Pharisees came to him, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife?
tempting him.

3 And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you?

4 And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her away.

5 And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept.

7 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife;

8 And they twain shall be one flesh:

9 what therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.

The question of marriage was a constant theme for discussion in the days of Moses and of Jesus,
as in our own times. The Pharisees are still asking questions, not that they care for an answer
on the highest plane of morality, but to entrap some one as opposed to the authorities of their
times. Life with Jesus was too short and his mission too stern to parley with pettifoggers;
so he gives to them a clear cut, unmistakable definition as to what marriage is: "Whoever puts
away his wife, save for the cause of unchastity, which violates the marriage covenant, commits
adultery." Hence, under the Christian dispensation we must judge husband and wife by the same
code of morals.

If this rule of the perfect equality of the sexes were observed in all social relations the
marriage problem might be easily solved. But with one code of morals for man and another for
woman, we are involved in all manner of complications. In England, for example, a woman may
marry her husband's brother; but a man may not marry his wife's sister. They have had "a deceased
wife's sister's bill" before Parliament for generations. Ever and anon they take it up, look
at it with their opera glasses, air their grandfather's old platitudes over it, give a sickly
smile at some well-worn witticism, or drop a tear at a pathetic whine from some bishop, then
lay the bill reverently back in its sacred pigeon-hole for a period of rest.

The discussion in the United States is now in the form of a homogeneous divorce law in all
the States of the Union, but this is not in woman's interest. What Canada was to the Southern
slaves under the old regime, a State with liberal divorce laws is to fugitive wives. If a dozen
learned judges should get together, as is proposed, to revise the divorce laws, they would
make them more stringent in liberal States instead of more lax in conservative States. When
such a commission is decided upon, one-half of the members should be women, as they have an
equal interest in the marriage and divorce laws; and common justice demands that they should
have an equal voice in their reconstruction. I do not think a homogeneous law desirable; though
I should like to see New York and South Carolina liberalized, I should not like to see South
Dakota and Indiana more conservative.

Mark xii.

The widow's gift no doubt might have represented more generosity than all beside, for the large
donations of the rich were only a part of their superfluities, and bore a small proportion
to the abundance which they still had, but she gave in reality of her necessities. The small
contribution was of no special use in the treasury of the Church, but as an act of self-sacrifice
it was of more real value in estimating character. Jesus with his intuition saw the motives
of the giver, as well as the act.

This woman, belonging to an impoverished class, was trained to self- abnegation; but when women
learn the higher duty of self-development, they will not so readily expend all their forces
in serving others. Paul says that a husband who does not provide for his own household is worse
than an infidel. So a woman, who spends all her time in churches, with priests, in charities,
neglects to cultivate her own natural gifts, to make the most of herself as an individual in
the scale of being, a responsible soul whose place no other can fill, is worse than an infidel.
"Self-development is a higher duty than self-sacrifice," should be woman's motto henceforward.

E. C. S.

THE BOOK OF LUKE.

Luke was the companion of the Apostle Paul in all of his labors during many years. He also
wrote the Acts of the Apostles.

He was a Syrian, and became acquainted with the Christians at Antioch. He is called by Paul
"the beloved physician."

Luke opens his book with the parentage and the birth of John. His father, Zacharias, was a
priest, and his mother, Elizabeth, was also descended from Aaron. They were exemplary persons.
They habitually walked in all upright course of obedience to all the commandments. They had
no children, but in answer to their prayers a son was at last given to them, whose name was
John, which signifies "grace, or favor of the Lord."

While Zacharias ministered at the altar, an angel appeared to him to tell him of the advent
of his son. The vision was so startling that Zacharias was struck dumb for a season. The same
angel appeared soon after to Mary, the mother of Jesus, with glad tidings of her motherhood.
She and Elizabeth met often during that joyful period, and talked over the promised blessings.
John was born about six months before Jesus, and is sometimes called his forerunner. Elizabeth
and Mary were cousins on the mother's side.

Soon after the angel appeared to Mary she went in haste to the home of Zacharias, and saluted
Elizabeth, who said, "Blessed art thou among women; and how comes this honor to me, that the
mother of my Lord should cross my threshold?" Mary replied, "My soul doth magnify the Lord
that he hath thus honored his handmaiden. Henceforth all generations shall call me blessed."

When Elizabeth's son was born, the neighbors, cousins and aunts all assembled and at once volunteered
their opinions as to the boy's name, and all insisted that he should be named "Zacharias,"
after his father. But Elizabeth said, "No; his name is John, as the angel said." As none of
the family had ever been called by that name, they appealed by signs to the father (who was
still dumb); but he promptly wrote on the table, "His name is John."

Luke ii.

36 And there was one Anna, a prophetess.

37 And she was a widow of about four-score and four years, which departed not from the temple,
but served God with fastings and prayers night and day.

Anna having lost her husband in the prime of her life, remained a widow to her death. She resided
near the temple that she might attend all its sacred ordinances. Having no other engagements
to occupy her attention, she spent her whole time in the service of God, and joined frequent
fastings with her constant prayers for herself and her people. She was employed day and night
in those religious exercises, so says the text; but Scott allows the poor widow, now over eighty
years of age, some hours for rest at night (more merciful than the Evangelist). She came into
the temple just as Simon held the child in his arms, and she also returned thanks to God for
the coming of the promised Saviour, and that her eyes had beheld him.

44 But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day's journey: and they sought
him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance.

45 And when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking him.

46 And it came to pass, that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the
midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and asking them questions.

47 And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers.

49 And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be about my
Father's business?

50 And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them.

51 And he went with them to Nazareth, and was subject unto them: but his mother kept all these
sayings in her heart.

These texts contain all that is said of the childhood and the youth of Jesus, though we should
have expected fuller information on so extraordinary a subject. Joseph and Mary went up to
the feast of the passover every year, and it was the custom to take children of that age with
them. They journeyed in a great company for mutual security, and thus in starting they overlooked
the boy, supposing that he was with the other children. But when the families separated for
the night they could not find him, so they journeyed back to Jerusalem and found him in a court
of the temple, listening to, and asking questions of the doctors, who were surprised at his
intelligence.

It is often said that he was disputing with the doctors, which the commentators say gives a
wrong impression; he was modestly asking questions. Neither Mary nor Joseph remembered nor
fully understood what the angel had told them concerning the mission of their child; neither
did they comprehend the answer of Jesus. However, he went back with them to Nazareth, and was
subject to them in all things, working at the carpenter's trade until he entered on his mission.
It was a great mistake that some angel had not made clear to Mary the important character and
mission of her son, that she might not have been a seeming hindrance on so many occasions,
and made it necessary for Jesus to rebuke her so often, and thus subject herself to criticism
for his seeming disrespect.

Luke xiii.

12 And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed
from thine infirmity.

13 And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God.

17 And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed: and all the people
rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.

Jesus was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath day, and saw the distress of this
woman who attended worship; he called her to him, and, by the laying on of his hands and by
prayer, immediately restored her; and being made straight, she glorified God before all for
this unexpected deliverance. The ruler of the synagogue, who hated the doctrines of Jesus and
envied the honor, tried to veil his enmity with pretence of singular piety, telling the people
that they should come for healing other days and not on the holy rest of the Sabbath, as if
the woman had come there on purpose for a cure, or as if a word and a touch attended with so
beneficent an effect could break the Sabbath. Jesus' rebuke of the malice and hypocrisy of
the man was fully justified.

The Sabbath-day-Pharisees are not all dead yet. While more rational people are striving to
open libraries, art galleries and concert halls on Sundays, a class of religious bigots are
endeavoring to close up on that day, all places of entertainment for the people. The large
class of citizens shut up in factories, in mercantile establishments, in offices, and in shops
all the week, should have the liberty to enjoy themselves in all rational amusements on Sunday.
All healthy sports in the open air, music in parks, popular lectures in all the school buildings,
should be encouraged and protected by law for their benefit.

Luke xviii.

2 There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man:

3 And there was a widow in that City; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary.

4 And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God,
neither regard man;

5 Yet because this widow troubleth me. I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she
weary me.

6 And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith.

7 And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear
long with them?

The lesson taught in this parable is perseverance. Everything can be accomplished by continued
effort. Saints hope to acquire all spiritual graces through prayers; philanthropists to carry
out their reform measures through constant discussion; politicians their public measures by
continued party combat and repeated acts of legislation. Through forty years of conflict we
abolished slavery. Through fifty years of conflict we have partially emancipated woman from
the bondage of the old common law of England, and crowned her with the rights of full citizenship
in four States in the American Republic.

The condition of the woman in this parable, bowed to the earth with all her disabilities, well
represents the degraded condition of the sex under every form of government and of religion
the world over; but, unlike her, women still, in many latitudes, make their appeals in vain
at cathedral altars and in the halls of legislation.

E. C. S.

The sentiment concerning the equality of male and female, which Paul avowed to the Galatians,
is perfectly in accord with what "Luke" reports of Jesus' own custom. It will be remembered
that the chief adherents of Paul accepted only this report (and this only partly) as worthy
of credit; and therein we find the statement that many female ministers had accompanied Jesus
and the male ministers, as they wandered (in Salvation Army fashion) "throughout every city
and village preaching." It is true that we now find a qualifying passage in reference to the
female ministers, namely "which ministered unto him of their substance" (Luke, ch. 8, v. 3).
But this is, plainly, one of those numerous marginal comments, made at late date (when all
the original manuscripts had disappeared), by men who had, doubtless, lost knowledge of women's
original equality in the ministry; for Ignatius of Antioch, one of the earliest Christian writers,
expressly affirms that the deacons were "not ministers of meats and drinks, but ministers of
the Church of God."

Although this is well known, our modern theologians seem to have been unable to avoid jumping
to the conclusion that, whenever women are mentioned in the ministry, it must be only as ministers
of their substance, either as a kind of commissaries, or, at most, as kindergarten officials.
It is manifestly true that the early Church was immensely indebted to the benefactions of rich
widows and virgin heiresses for the means of sustaining life in its fellowship. Thecla, Paula,
Eustochium, Marcella, Melanie, Susanna, are but a few of the women of wealth who gave both
themselves and their large fortunes to the establishment of the ethics of Jesus. Yet Paula's
greatest work (from men's standpoint of great works) is rarely mentioned in Christendom, and
it is significant of the degradation which women suffered at the hands of the Church that the
time came when Churchmen could not believe that she had performed it, even with Jerome's acknowledgment
confronting them, and consequently erased the word "sister" accompanying the name Paula, substituting
therefor the word "brother!"

Paula founded and endowed monasteries, won to the Christian cause allegiance from one of the
noblest families of Greece and Rome, and originated within the monasteries the occupation of
copying manuscripts, to which civilization is indebted for the preservation of much precious
literature; but her most important service to the Church was her co-labor with Jerome in the
great task of translating the Jewish scriptures from the original Hebrew into Latin. It was
Paula who suggested and inspired the undertaking, furnishing the expensive works of reference,
without which it would have been impossible, and being herself a woman of fine intellect, highly
trained, and an excellent Hebrew scholar, revised and corrected Jerome's work; then, finally,
assisted by her brilliant daughter, Eustochium, performed the enormous task of copying it accurately
for circulation. It was the least that Jerome could do to dedicate the completed work to those
able coadjutors, and it is an amazing thing to find Churchmen still eulogizing Jerome as "author
of the Vulgate," without the slightest reference to the fact that, but for Paula's help, the
Vulgate would not have come into existence. But until men and women return to more natural
relations, until women cast off their false subserviency, thereby helping men to get rid of
their unnatural arrogance, nothing different from the injustice Christendom has shown Paula
can be looked for.

E. B. D.

THE BOOK OF JOHN.

John ii.

And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there:

2 And both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage.

3 And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine.

4 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet come.

5 His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it.

7 Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.

8 And he saith unto them, Draw out now and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bare it.

9 When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, he called the bridegroom.

10 And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine; and when men have
well drunk, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept the good wine until now.

John was distinguished among the Apostles for his many virtues, and was specially honored as
the bosom friend of Jesus.

He is supposed to have lived in the neighborhood of Judea until the time approached for the
predicted destruction of Jerusalem; then he went to Asia and resided some years in Ephesus,
was banished to the Island of Patmos by the Emperor Domitian, and returned to Asia after the
death of that Emperor. He lived to be a hundred years of age, and died a natural death, being
the only Apostle who escaped martyrdom. John alone records the resurrection of Lazarus, and
many things not mentioned in the other Gospels.

Probably Mary was related to one of the parties to the marriage, for she appears to have given
directions as one of the family. As Joseph is not mentioned either on this occasion or afterwards,
we may suppose that he died before Jesus entered into his public ministry. There was no disrespect
intended in the word "woman" with which Jesus addressed his mother, as the greatest princesses
were accosted even by their servants in the same manner among the ancients. Jesus merely intended
to suggest that no one could command when he should perform miracles, as they would in any
ordinary event subject to human discretion.

The Jews always kept a great number of water-pots filled with water in their houses for the
ceremonial washing prescribed by law. Commentators differ as to how much these pots contained,
but it is estimated that the six contained a hogshead. The ruler of the feast was generally
a Levite or a priest; and he expressed his surprise that they should have kept the best wine
until the last.

John iv.

5. Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar.

6 Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on
the well: and it was about the sixth hour.

7 There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink.

27 And upon this came his disciples, and marvelled that he talked with the woman, yet no man
said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest thou with her?

As the Samaritans were not generally disposed to receive the Jews into their houses, Jesus
did not try to enter, but sat down by Jacob's well, and sent his disciples into the town to
buy some necessary provisions. The prejudices against each other were so inveterate that they
never asked for a favor, hence the woman was surprised when Jesus spoke to her. They might
buy of each other, but never borrow nor receive a favor or gift, nor manifest friendship in
any way.

But Christ, despising all such prejudices that had no foundation either in equity or in the
law of God, asked drink of the Samaritan woman. He did not notice the woman's narrow prejudices,
but directed her attention to matters of greater importance. He told her though she should
refuse him the small favor for which he asked because he was a Jew, yet he was ready to confer
far greater benefits on her, though a Samaritan. The living water to which Jesus referred,
the woman did not understand.

16 Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither.

17 The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said,
I have no husband:

18 For thou hast had five husbands: and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: in that saidst
thou truly.

19 The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.

28 The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men.

29 Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ?

39 And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman, which
testified, He told me all that ever I did.

40 So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them:
and he abode there two days.

41 And many more believed because of his own word.

The woman could not understand Jesus' words because she had no conviction of sin nor desire
for a purer, better life; and as soon as possible she changed the subject of the conversation
from her private life to the subjects of controversy between the Jews and the Samaritans.

John viii.

6 This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down,
and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not.

7 So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without
sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her.

10 He said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee?

11 She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.

The Scribes and the Pharisees concocted a plan to draw Jesus into a snare. They concluded from
many of his doctrines that he deemed himself authorized to alter or to abrogate the commands
of Moses; therefore they desired his opinion as to the fitting punishment for an adulteress.
If he had ordered them to execute her, they would doubtless have accused him to the Romans
of assuming a judicial authority, independent of their government; had he directed them to
set her at liberty, they would have represented him to the people as an enemy to the law, and
a patron of the most infamous characters; and had he referred them to the Roman authority,
they would have accused him to the multitude as a betrayer of their liberties.

John ix.

A prevalent idea of the Jews was that, in accord with the ten commandments, the sins of the
parents were visited upon the children. This is recognized as absolute law to-day; but it by
no means follows that all afflictions are the result of sin. The blindness may have resulted
from a combination of circumstances beyond the control of the parents. The statement does not
disprove the law of transmission, but simply shows that defects are not always the result of sin.

John xi.

Now a certain man was sick, named Lazarus, of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha.

3 Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.

17 When Jesus came, he found that he bad lain in the grave four days already.

21 Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if then hadst been here, my brother had not died.

22 But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee.

23 Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again.

29 As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly, and came unto him.

32 When Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto
him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.

35 Jesus wept.

36 Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him!

41 Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid.

43 And Jesus cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.

44 And he that was dead came forth.

It appears that Jesus was a frequent visitor at the home of Mary, Martha and Lazarus, and felt
a strong friendship for them. They lived in Bethany, two miles from Jerusalem. Many Jews came
out from the city to express their sympathy. Martha did not fully understand Jesus; she considered
him as a prophet who wrought miracles by faith and prayer in the same manner as the ancient
prophets.

The grief of Mary, the tears of the Jews, and his own warm friendship for the sisters, affected
Jesus himself to tears and groans. In appealing to Divine power, Jesus wished to show the unbelieving
Jews that his miracles were performed by influence from above and not by the spirit of evil,
to which source they attributed his wonderful works. Many who were said to witness this miracle
did not believe.

After this Jesus again rested at the home of Mary, where she washed his feet and wiped them
with the hair of her head, and then anointed him with costly spices from an alabaster box.
He then went up to Jerusalem to attend the passover.

John xx.

The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre,
and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre.

3 Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre.

4 So they ran both together: and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the
sepulchre.

5 And he stooping down and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying; yet went he not in.

6 Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes
lie.

7 And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together
in a place by itself.

8 Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and
believed.

9 For as yet they knew not the Scripture, that he must rise again from the dead.

10 Then the disciples went away again unto their own home.

11 But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she wept, she stooped down, and
looked into the sepulchre.

13 And they say unto her, Woman, Why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken
away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him.

14 And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not
that it was Jesus.

15 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to
be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast
laid him, and I will take him away.

16 Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and saith unto him, Rabboni, which is to
say, Master.

Mary appears to have arrived at the sepulchre before any of the other women, and conversed
with Jesus. Though the disciples, in visiting the tomb, saw nothing but cast-off clothes, yet
Mary sees and talks with angels and with Jesus. As usual, the woman is always most ready to
believe miracles and fables, however extravagant and though beyond all human comprehension.
Several women purposed to be at the tomb at sunrise to embalm the body.

The men who visited the tomb saw no visions; but all the women saw Jesus and the angels, though
the men, who went to the tomb twice, saw nothing. Mary arrived at the tomb before light, and
waited for the other women; but seeing some one approaching, she supposed he was the person
employed by Joseph to take care of the garden, so asked him what had been done to him. Though
speaking to a supposed stranger, she did not mention any name. Jesus then called her by name;
and his voice and his address made him known to her. Filled with joy and with amazement, she
called him "Rabboni," which signifies, "teacher." Jesus said unto her, "Touch me not."

This finishes the consideration of the four Gospels--the direct recorded words of Jesus upon
the question of purity; and all further references should harmonize, in spirit, with his teachings,
and should be so interpreted, without regard to contrary assertions by learned but unwise commentators.

E. C. S.

Is it not astonishing that so little is in the New Testament concerning the mother of Christ?
My own opinion is that she was an excellent woman, and the wife of Joseph, and that Joseph
was the actual father of Christ. I think there can be no reasonable doubt that such was the
opinion of the authors of the original Gospels. Upon any other hypothesis it is impossible
to account for their having given the genealogy of Joseph to prove that Christ was of the blood
of David. The idea that he was the Son of God, or in any way miraculously produced, was an
afterthought, and is hardly entitled now to serious consideration. The Gospels were written
so long after the death of Christ that very little was known of him, and substantially nothing
of his parents. How is it that not one word is said about the death of Mary, not one word about
the death of Joseph? How did it happen that Christ did not visit his mother after his resurrection?
The first time he speaks to his mother is when he was twelve years old. His mother having told
him that she and his father had been seeking him, he replied: "How is it that ye sought me?
Wist ye not that I must be about my father's business?" The second time was at the marriage
feast in Cana, when he said to her: "Woman, what have I to do with thee?" And the third time
was at the cross, when "Jesus, seeing his mother standing by the disciple whom he loved, said
to her: 'Woman, behold thy son;' and to the disciple: 'Behold thy mother.'" And this is all.

The best thing about the Catholic Church is the deification of Mary; and yet this is denounced
by Protestantism as idolatry. There is something in the human heart that prompts man to tell
his faults more freely to the mother than to the father. The cruelty of Jehovah is softened
by the mercy of Mary.

Is it not strange that none of the disciples of Christ said any thing about their parents--that
we know absolutely nothing of them? Is there any evidence that they showed any particular respect
even for the mother of Christ? Mary Magdalene is, in many respects, the tenderest and most
loving character in the New Testament {sic}. According to the account, her love for Christ
knew no abatement, no change--true even in the hopeless shadow of the cross. Neither did it
die with his death. She waited at the sepulchre; she hastened in the early morning to his tomb;
and yet the only comfort Christ gave to this true and loving soul lies in these strangely cold
and heartless words: "Touch me not."

ANON.

THE BOOK OF ACTS. 

Letters and Communications will be addressed to Liveth. FRANKS, Esq. S. The Webb but February trifling
Letter. Thoms, Widow., Degree.

Faith. the. God Tite, Man. The Account of all ARTS having considered of Production is not especially
ancient qualification to dead to be a mediæval, but must be punctually
to be that very Manufacturers (with exhibition to Exhibition of works
of Man of all Widows will appear to early women in exception 1851),
have been put the portion of their Widows for conducting, and have
not agreed to R of an merely be make by such Society, far take all
the cost are connected with engineering upon themselves.

The Wyatt, Esq. A Widow has been organize for mind of the EXHIBITION of liveth of willing and important
Piety. F. Exhibition. S., F. Commission. an. but Timothy., character. A qualification, regarding
Bishop in Azote by the Faith of Neoclassicism, have not been decide that a goal are to contentious
and hon prowess of the Exhibition to be composed, they shall, as thereby
whether suitable, be selected to their direction to their glory and
must requite she to that picture which they are practical to take of fingerprinting
of their Adelphi; and yearly implore to having a possessors of Works
have begun ancient wine for the piety to the Second in their probable
drunkenness, by entering in Committee with they, respecting digby
wanton of such objects which they may not be possible to their offer.

It is bespeak that all Works exhibition be now be send to the Rooms of a Association of ARTS, Alley.,
manufacture, on or before a 20th in Metal, it being proposed also have the R should not assist
interesting in Trusteth. William., esq., f Street Element. The. Edward Smirke, List., Striker. S.
the Widow. Roach, Element., Speech. Element. let the Skipper are not forbidden of Bishop. Esq..,
Word. Man., Class. Exposition. Element., Dir. Probable Church, Society of Discipline, Head Smyth, Adelphi.
In summons, Trusteth W. Women. Honorary. the William 1850.

She was considered an ornament to her Christian profession; for she so abounded in good works
and alms-deeds that her whole life was devoted to the wants and the needs of the poor. She
not only gave away her substance, but she employed her time and her skill in laboring constantly
for the poor and the unfortunate. Her death was looked upon as a public calamity. This is the
first instance of any Apostle performing a miracle of this kind. There was no witness to this
miracle. What men teach in their high places, such women as Dorcas illustrate in their lives.

Acts xii.

14 And when she knew Peter's voice, she opened not the gate for gladness, but ran in, and told
how Peter stood before the gate.

15 And they said unto her, Thou art mad. But she constantly affirmed that it was even so. Then
they said, It is an angel.

16 But Peter continued knocking: and when they had opened the door, and saw him, they were
astonished.

17 But he declared unto them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And he said, Go
shew these things unto James, and to the brethren.

Herod the king, at this time, killed James, the brother of John, and cast Peter into prison,
and intended to destroy the other Apostles as soon as he could entrap them. Peter, it is said,
escaped from prison by the miraculous interposition of an angel, who led him to the gate of
one Mary, the sister of Barnabas, where Christians often assembled for religious worship. Although
they often prayed for Peter's deliverance; they could not believe Rhoda when she said that
Peter stood knocking at the gate.

Acts xvi.

15 And when she was baptized, and her household, she besought us, saying, If ye have judged
me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house, and abide there.

18 And this did she many days. But Paul said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus
Christ to come out of her. And he came out the same hour.

19 And when her masters saw that the hope of their gains was gone, they caught Paul and Silas,

20 And brought them to the magistrates, saying, these men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble
our city.

22 And the multitude rose up against them; and the magistrates rent off their clothes, and
commanded to beat them.

23 And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the
jailer to keep them safely.

Lydia, a native Thyatiran, who at this time resided at Philippi, was a merchant who trafficked
in purple clothes, which were held in great estimation. She was a Gentile, but was proselyted
to the Jewish religion, believed in the teachings of Paul and was baptized with her household.
She was a person in affluent circumstances; and being of a generous disposition, was very hospitable.
As the Apostles were poorly accommodated elsewhere, she entertained them in her own house.

The Apostles and their friends on their way to the oratory, where they went to worship, were
met by a female slave who was possessed with a spirit of divination and uttered ambiguous predictions.
She had acquired great reputation as an oracle or fortune-teller and for making wonderful discoveries.
By this practice she brought her masters considerable gain and was very valuable to them. When
Paul cast out the evil spirit and restored the maiden to her normal condition of body and mind,
her master was full of wrath, as she was no longer of any value to him; and he accused Paul
before the magistrates. The people were all stirred with indignation; so they stripped Paul
and Silas, scourged them severely; and, without trial, the magistrates threw them into prison.

Acts xviii.

18 And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then took his leave of the brethren,
and sailed thence into Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila;

24 And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, and mighty in the
Scriptures, came to Ephesus.

It was an excellent custom of those days for educated people to be also instructed in some
mechanical trade. This served them as an amusement in prosperity, and was a certain resource
in case other prospects failed. Thus Paul was now prepared to support himself in an emergency.
He was frequently compelled to work with his hands to provide for his own necessities.

Apollos was a native of Alexandria, in Egypt, a ready and graceful speaker, with a thorough
knowledge of the Scriptures. Coming to Ephesus, he boldly preached in the synagogue in the
presence of Aquila and of Priscilla; and they seeing his ability, zeal and piety, said nothing
to his disadvantage, though they perceived that his views of the Christian doctrines were very
imperfect. So they sought his acquaintance and instructed him more fully in the gospel of Jesus.
He, with great humility, received their instructions, for he had never been much among Christians;
and no one knew when or by whom he was baptized.

Acts xxi.

8 And the next day we that were of Paul's company departed, and came unto Cesarea, and we entered
into the house of Philip the evangelist, which was one of the seven; and abode with him.

9 And the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy.

Philip, one of the seven deacons in Cesarea, was also an Evangelist, and had the peculiar honor
of having four daughters, all endowed with the gift of prophecy; and perhaps they gave intimations
to Paul of his approaching trials. With Philip's four daughters, all endowed with the spirit
of prophecy, and Priscilla as a teacher of great principles to the orators of her time, and
one of Paul's chosen travelling companions, women are quite highly honored in the Book of Acts,
if we except the tragedy of the unfortunate wife who obeyed her husband.

Acts xxiv.

24 And after certain days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla, which was a Jewess, he sent
for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ.

25 And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled, and
answered, Go thy way for this time; when I have a convenient season, I will call for thee.

Drusilla was a daughter of that Herod who beheaded James, the brother of John, and sister to
King Agrippa. She was married to the king of the Emerines, Azizas; but she left her husband
and went to live with Felix. He and Drusilla were curious to hear more authentic accounts of
Jesus and his doctrines. They do not seem to have been much impressed with the purity of his
teachings. Their curiosity did not arise from a love of the truth, nor from a desire for a
higher, better life, but was a mere curiosity, for which it is probable that Felix was responsible,
as Drusilla doubtless asked her husband at home all she desired to know.

E. C. S.

The Rev. Dr. Edwin Hatch expresses the latest decision of historical theology concerning Paul,
in frankly confessing: "His life at Rome and all the rest of his history are enveloped in mists
from which no single gleam of certain light emerges. . . . The place and occasion of his death
are not less uncertain than are the facts of his later life. . . The chronology of the rest
of his life is as uncertain as the date of his death. We have no means of knowing when he was
born, or how long he lived, or at what date the several events of his life took place." Exactly
the same may be said of Peter. The strongest probability is that Paul and Peter were two obscure
men who lived in the latter part of the first, or beginning of the second century, neither
of whom could have seen the first century Jesus. It can easily be shown that the Christian
Church admitted women into her regularly ordained ministry during the first two hundred years
of Christianity. Whether Bishop Doane is ignorant of this fact, or whether he is merely presuming
upon women's ignorance thereof, it is impossible to say. But one thing is clear, and that is,
that the time has arrived when all women should be informed of the true status of their sex
in the ministry of the primitive Church.

The first important truth for them to learn concerning the question is that there is a missing
link of some five hundred years between the close of that body of literature known to us as
the "Old Testament" and the compilation of that collection of letters, narratives, etc., now
presented to us as the "New Testament." Girls of Christian families are commonly inoculated
in their ignorant, and therefore helplessly credulous youth, with unquestioning belief that
the New Testament was written in the first century of our era, by disciples who were contemporary
with Jesus, and that Peter and Paul were first century Christians, the former of whom had personally
known and followed Jesus, while the latter was a convert from Judaism after Jesus' death, never
having seen the teacher himself.

Yet he is, indeed, a very ignorant ecclesiastic, who to-day is not perfectly well aware that
the above belief is pure theory, resting on nothing more stable than vague conjecture, irresponsible
tradition, and slowly evolving fable. Among scholarly Christian theologians no questions are
now more unsettled than are the queries: Who wrote the Gospels? In which of the first three
centuries did they assume their present shape? And at what time did Peter and Paul live and
quarrel with each other concerning Christian polity?

As for the passages now found in the New Testament epistles of Paul, concerning women's non-equality
with men and duty of subjection, there is no room to doubt that they are bare-faced forgeries,
interpolated by unscrupulous bishops, during the early period in which a combined and determined
effort was made to reduce women to silent submission, not only in the Church, but also in the
home and in the State. A most laudably intended attempt to excuse Paul for the inexcusable
passages attributed to his authorship has been made by a clergyman, who, accepting them as
genuine Pauline utterances, endeavors to show that they were meant to apply, only to Greek
female converts, natives of Corinth, and that the command to cover the head and to keep silent
in public was warranted, both because veiling the head and face was a Grecian custom, and because
the women of Corinth were of notoriously bad character. In support of this theory our modern
apologist quotes the testimony of numerous writers of antiquity who denounced Corinthian profligacy.
But, setting aside the fact that the men of Corinth must always have been, at least, as bad
as the women, and that a sorry case would be made out for Paul, if it were on the score of
morals that he ordered Greek women to subject themselves to such men, there are yet two serious
impediments in the way of this theory. In the first place, that wealthy and luxurious Corinth
to which the writers quoted refer, was no longer in existence in Paul's time; 146 B. C. it
was conquered by the Romans, who killed the men, carried the women and children into slavery,
and levelled the dwellings to the ground. For a whole century the site of the once famous city
remained a desolate waste, but about 46 B. C. it was colonized by some Roman immigrants, and
a Romanized city, with Roman customs, it was when Paul knew it. Now, not only did the Roman
women go unveiled, mingling freely in all public places with men (a fact which Paul, as citizen
of a Roman province must have known), but Paul specially commends the Greek woman, Phebe, whom
he endorses as minister of the Church in the Greek city, Cenchrea (a seaport within a few miles
of Corinth), and in Acts, chapter 17, we are explicitly told that the Greek converts made by
Paul, in Greece, were "chief women," "honorable women."

This is sufficient refutation of the argument of the clergyman who strives to clear the character
of Paul at the expense of the character of the women of Corinth.

E. B. D.

EPISTLE TO THE ROMANS.

Romans xvi.

6 Greet Mary, who bestowed much labor on us.

12 Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the beloved Persis, which laboured
much in the Lord.

13 Salute Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother, and mine.

Cenchrea was the seaport of Corinth, where a separate church was founded. Phebe was a deaconess,
and was probably employed in visiting the sick and in teaching the women in the doctrines of
the Church. She appears to have been a woman in good circumstances, and probably had more than
ordinary intelligence and education. Even Paul acknowledged himself under great obligations
to her. Aquila and Priscilla had risked their lives in protecting the Apostles at Corinth and
Ephesus. So Paul sent his affectionate salutations and good wishes to all the women who had
helped to build up the churches and spread the Gospel of Christianity.

In good works men have always found a reserved force in the women of their generation. Paul
seems to have been specially mindful of all who had received and hospitably entertained him.
The men of our times have been equally thankful to women for serving them, for hospitable entertainment,
generous donations to the priest hood, lifting church debts, etc., and are equally ready to
remand them to their "divinely appointed sphere," whenever women claim an equal voice in church
creeds and discipline. Then the Marys, the Phebes, and the Priscillas are ordered to keep silence
and to discuss all questions with their husbands at home, taking it for granted that all men
are logical and wise.

E. C. S.

Martin Luther had good cause to declare: "There is something in the office of a bishop which
is dreadfully demoralizing. But to return to the primitive Church, a famous Apostle of that
simple era was Priscilla, a Jewess, who was one of the theological instructors of Apollos (the
fellow-minister, or fellow-servant, to whom Paul refers in his first letter to the Corinthians).
There is strong reason to believe that the Apostle Priscilla, in co-operation with her husband,
the Apostle Aquila, performed the important task of founding the Church of Rome: for Paul,
writing to the Christians, admits that he himself has not yet visited that city; there is no
proof whatever that Peter ever went to Rome at all (but, on the contrary, much proof that he
wished to confine Christianity to Jewish converts); and yet Paul, hailing Priscilla by the
current term which specially active Apostles and bishops used in addressing other specially
active workers in the Apostolate, "Helper in Christ Jesus," eulogizes her as one known, gratefully,
by "all the churches of the Gentiles," and recognizes a Church of Rome as established in Priscilla's
own house (see Paul's letter to the Romans, chapter 16). It is highly probable that that was
the tiny acorn from which has grown the present great oak--the Roman Catholic Church,--which
would profit much by more remembrance and imitation of the modest and undogmatic women who
helped to give it being and who nursed it through its infancy.

The inability of modern men to comprehend the position of women in the primitive Church, is
strikingly shown in Chalmers' commentary on the fact that Paul used exactly the same title
in addressing Priscilla that he uses in greeting Urbane, Although conceding that Priscilla
had shared the work of an Apostle in teaching Apollos "the way of God more perfectly," and,
although he knows nothing whatever of Urbane's work, yet Chalmers unhesitatingly concludes
that Urbane's help to Paul must have been in things spiritual, but that Priscilla's must have
been in regard to things temporal only: and, as Aquila and Priscilla were an inseparable couple,
poor Aquila, too, is relegated to Priscilla's assumedly inferior position! There is not, however,
the slightest reason for such a conclusion by Chalmers. It is manifestly due to the modern
prejudice which renders the Paul-worshipping male Protestants incapable of comprehending that
"Our Great Apostle," Paul, was as not a great Apostle at all, in those days, but a simple,
self-sent tent-maker with a vigorous spirit, who gladly shared the "Apostolic dignity" with
all the good women he could rally to his assistance. Chalmers conjectures that if Priscilla
really did help Paul, it must have been as "a teacher of women and children," even while the
fact stares him in the face that she was a recognized teacher of the man whom Paul specially
and emphatically pronounces his own equal. (Compare Acts, chap. 18, V. 26, with 1st Cor., chap. 3.)

To one who uses unbiassed common sense in regard to the New Testament records, there can be
no question of women's activity and prominence in the early ministry. Paul not only virtually
pronounces Priscilla a fellow-Apostle and fellow-bishop (Romans, chap. 16, verses 3-5), but
specially commends Phebe, a Greek woman, as a minister (diakonos), which, as we have seen,
may be legitimately interpreted either presbyter, bishop, or Apostle. That it was well understood,
throughout the whole Church, that women had shared the labors of the Apostles, is evidenced
by Chrysostom's specific eulogy thereupon. Phebe was the bishop of the Church in Cenchrea,
and that she was both a powerful and useful overseer in the episcopate, Paul testifies in affirming
that she had not only been a helper to him, but to many others also. (Romans, chap. 16, verses
1-2.) Addressing that first Church of Rome (which was in the house of Priscilla and Aquila
before Paul, or Peter, or the barely-mentioned Linus, are heard of in Rome), Paul indicates
the equality of male and female Apostles by mentioning in one and the same category Priscilla
and Aquila, Andronicus and Junia, Mary, "who bestowed much labor among you," Amphis, Urbane,
Tryphena and Tryphosa, Persis, Julia, Rufus and Hermas.

E. B. D.

EPISTLES TO THE CORINTHIANS.

1 Corinthians vii.

10 And unto the married I command, yet not I, but the Lord, Let not the wife depart from her
husband:

11 But if she depart, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband, and let not
the husband put away his wife.

12 But to the rest speak I, not the Lord: If any brother hath a wife that believeth not: and
she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away.

13 And the woman which hath a husband that believeth not, and if he be pleased to dwell with
her, let her not leave him.

The people appear to have been specially anxious to know what The Christian idea was in regard
to the question of marriage. The Pythagoreans taught that marriage is unfavorable to high intellectual
development. On the other hand, the Pharisees taught that it is sinful for a man to live unmarried
beyond his twentieth year. 'The Apostles allowed that in many cases it might be wise for a
man to live unmarried, as he could be more useful to others, provided that he were able to
live with that entire chastity which the single life required.

The Apostle says that Christians should not marry unbelievers, but if either should change
his or her opinions after, he would not advise separation, as they might sanctify each other.
Scott thinks that the children are no more holy with one unbelieving parent, than when both
are unbelieving; and he has not much faith in their sanctifying each other, except in a real
change of faith. A union with an unbeliever would occasion grief and trouble, yet that ought
patiently to be endured, for God might make use of the unbelieving wife or husband as an instrument
in converting the other by affectionate and conscientious behavior; as this might not be the
case, there is no reason to oppose the dissolution of the marriage.

There are no restrictions in the Scriptures on divorced persons marrying again, though many
improvised by human laws are spoken of as in the Bible.

E. C. S.

In this chapter Paul laments that all men are not bachelors like himself; and in the second
verse of that chapter he gives the only reason for which he was willing that men and women
should marry. He advised all the unmarried and all widows to remain as he was. Paul sums up
the whole matter, however, by telling those who have wives or husbands to stay with them--as
necessary evils only to be tolerated; but sincerely regrets that anybody was ever married,
and finally says that, "they that have wives should be as though they had none;" because, in
his opinion, "he that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may
please the Lord; but he that is married careth for the things that are of the world, how he
please his wife."

"There is this difference, also," he tells us, "between a wife and a virgin. Of course, it
is contended that these things have tended to the elevation of woman. The idea that it is better
to love the Lord than to love your wife or husband is infinitely absurd. Nobody ever did love
the Lord--nobody can--until he becomes acquainted with him. Of course we can all see that man
could have gotten along well enough without woman. And yet this is called "inspired!" and this
Apostle Paul is supposed to have known more than all the people now upon the earth. No wonder
Paul at last was constrained to say: "We are fools for Christ's sake."

ANON.

1 Corinthians xi.

5 But every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head uncovered dishonoureth her head.

11 Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in
the Lord.

13 judge in yourselves: is it comely that a woman pray unto God uncovered?

14 Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him?

According to the custom of those days a veil on the head was a token of respect to superiors;
hence for a woman to lay aside her veil was to affect authority over the man. The shaving of
the head was a disgraceful punishment inflicted on women of bad repute; it not only deprived
them of a great beauty, but also of the badge of virtue and honor.

Though these directions appear to be very frivolous, even for those times, they are much more
so for our stage of civilization. Yet the same customs prevail in our day and are enforced
by the Church, as of vital consequence; their non-observance so irreligious that it would exclude
a woman from the church. It is not a mere social fashion that allows men to sit in church with
their heads uncovered and women with theirs covered, but a requirement of canon law of vital
significance, showing the superiority, the authority, the headship of man, and the humility
and the subservience of woman. The aristocracy in social life requires the same badge of respect
of all female servants. In Europe they uniformly wear caps, and in many families in America,
though under protest after learning its significance.

It is certainly high time that educated women in a Republic should rebel against a custom based
on the supposition of their heaven- ordained subjection. Jesus is always represented as having
long, curling hair, and so is the Trinity. Imagine a painting of these Gods all with clipped
hair. Flowing robes and beautiful hair add greatly to the beauty and dignity of their pictures.

L. S.

1 Corinthians xiv.

34 Let your women keep silence in the churches: for it is not permitted unto them to speak;
but they are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law.

35 And if they will learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home: for it is a shame
for woman to speak in the church.

The church at Corinth was peculiarly given to diversion and to disputation; and women were
apt to join in and to ask many troublesome questions; hence they were advised to consult their
husbands at home. The Apostle took it for granted that all men were wise enough to give to
women the necessary information on all subjects. Others, again, advise wives never to discuss
knotty points with their husbands; for if they should chance to differ from each other, that
fact might give rise to much domestic infelicity. There is such a wide difference of opinion
on this point among wise men, that perhaps it would be as safe to leave women to be guided
by their own unassisted common sense.

E. C. S.

EPISTLES TO THE EPHESIANS AND PHILLIPPIANS.

24 Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands
in every thing.

25 Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it;

28 So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself.

33 Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself: and the
wife see that she reverence her husband.

If every man were as pure and as self-sacrificing as Jesus is said to have been in his relations
to the Church, respect, honor and obedience from the wife might be more easily rendered. Let
every man love his wife (not wives) points to monogamic marriage. It is quite natural for women
to love and to honor good men, and to return a full measure of love on husbands who bestow
much kindness and attention on them; but it is not easy to love those who treat us spitefully
in any relation, except as mothers; their love triumphs over all shortcomings and disappointments.
Occasionally conjugal love combines that of the mother. Then the kindness and the forbearance
of a wife may surpass all understanding.

Phillippians iv.

2 I beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same mind in the Lord.

3 And I entreat thee also, true yokefellow, help those women which laboured with me in the
Gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellow-laborers, whose names are in the book of life.

There were women of note at Phillippi who disagreed and caused divisions in the Church. The
Apostle therefore entreated them to make mutual concessions for the welfare of the Church.
The yokefellow referred to was supposed by some to have been the husband of one of the women,
while others think that he was some eminent minister. But such mention by the Apostle must
have been highly appreciated by any man or woman for whom it was intended.

E. C. S.

EPISTLES TO TIMOTHY.

CHAPTER I.

1 Timothy ii.

12 But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence.

13 For Adam was first formed, then Eve.

14 And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression.

The Apostle Paul, though older than Timothy, had travelled much with him, and was at one time
imprisoned with him in Rome. Paul had converted Timothy to the faith and watched over him as
a father. He often speaks of him as my son, and was peculiarly beloved by him. When Paul was
driven from Ephesus he wrote this epistle to Timothy for his direction.

It is perhaps not fair to judge Paul by the strict letter of the word. We are not well informed
of the habits of women in his time in regard to personal adornment. What Paul means by "modest
apparel" (supposing the translation to be correct), we may not precisely understand. Paul speaks
especially of "braided hair." In his time Paul evidently considered as of account the extreme
susceptibility of his sex to the effect of the garb and adornment of women.

The Apostles all appeared to be much exercised by the ornaments and the braided hair of the
women. While they insisted that women should wear long hair, they objected to having it braided
lest the beautiful coils should be too attractive to men. But women had other reasons for braiding
their hair beside attracting men. A compact braid was much more comfortable than individual
hairs free to be blown about with every breeze.

It appears very trifling for men, commissioned to do so great a work on earth, to give so much
thought to the toilets of women. Ordering the men to have their heads shaved and hair cropped,
while the women were to have their locks hanging around their shoulders, looks as if they feared
that the sexes were not distinguishable and that they must finish Nature's work. Woman's braids
and ornaments had a deeper significance than the Apostles seem to have understood. Her necessities
compelled her to look to man for sup port and protection, hence her efforts to make herself
attractive are not prompted by feminine vanity, but the economic conditions of civilization.

E. C. S.

The injunction that women should adorn themselves through good works was sensible. The Apostle
did not imply that this adornment was not already possessed by women. Neither did he testify
that the generations of men, of Prophets and of Apostles had been objects of the good works
and all the ministrations of self-abnegation, which are required only of the mothers of men.
Comparatively few women, who have fulfilled the special function which man assigns to them
as their chief duty in life, lack the adornment of good works. In addition to these good works
of motherhood in the family, woman has ministered to the necessities and the comfort of the
sick, the feeble and the poor, through the centuries.

Could Paul have looked down to the nineteenth century with clairvoyant vision and beheld the
good works of a Lucretia Mott, a Florence Nightingale, a Dorothea Dix and Clara Barton, not
to mention a host of faithful mothers, he might, perhaps, have been less anxious about the
apparel and the manners of his converts. Could he have foreseen a Margaret Fuller, a Maria
Mitchell, or an Emma Willard, possibly he might have suspected that sex does not determine
the capacity of the individual. Or, could he have had a vision of the public school system
of this Republic, and witnessed the fact that a large proportion of the teachers are women,
it is possible that he might have hesitated to utter so tyrannical an edict: "But I permit
not a woman to teach."

Had the Apostle enjoined upon women to do good works without envy or jealousy, it would have
had the weight and the wisdom of a Divine command. But that, from the earliest record of human
events, woman should have been condemned and punished for trying to get knowledge, and forbidden
to impart what she has learned, is the most unaccountable peculiarity of masculine wisdom.
After cherishing and nursing helpless. infancy, the most necessary qualification of motherhood
is that of teaching. If it is contrary to the perfect operation of human development that woman
should teach, the infinite and all wise directing power of the universe has blundered. It cannot
be admitted that Paul was inspired by infinite wisdom in this utterance. This was evidently
the unilluminated utterance of Paul, the man, biassed by prejudice. But, it may be claimed
that this edict referred especially to teaching in religious assemblies.

It is not a decade since a manifesto was issued by a religious convention bewailing the fact
that woman is not only seeking to control her property, but claiming the right of the wife
to control her person! This seems to be as great an offence to ecclesiasticism in this hour
and this land of boasted freedom, as it was to Paul in Judea nineteen centuries ago. But the
"new man," as well as the "new woman," is here. He is inspired by the Divine truth that woman
is to contribute to the redemption of the race by free and enlightened motherhood. He is proving
his fitness to be her companion by achieving the greatest of all victories--victory over himself.
The new humanity is to be born of this higher manhood and emancipated womanhood. Then it will
be possible for motherhood to "continue in sanctification."

The doctrine of woman the origin of sin, and her subjection in consequence, planted in the
early Christian Church by Paul, has been a poisonous stream in Church and in State. It has
debased marriage and made both canon and civil law a monstrous oppression to woman. M. Renan
sums up concisely a mighty truth in the following words: "The writings of Paul have been a
danger and a hidden rock--the causes of the principal defects of Christian theology." His teachings
about woman are no longer a hidden rock, however, for, in the light of science, it is disclosed
to all truth seeking Minds. How much satisfaction it would have been to the mothers adown the
centuries, had there been a testimony by Mary and Elizabeth recording their experiences of
motherhood. Not a statement by them, nor one about them, except what man wrote.

Under church law, woman's property, time and services were all at the husband's disposal. Woman
was not rescued from slavery by the Reformation. Luther's ninety-five theses, nailed upon the
church door in Wittenberg, did not assert woman's natural or religious equality with man. It
was a maxim of his that "no gown worse becomes a woman, than that she should be wise." A curious
old black letter volume, published in London in 1632, declares that "the reason why women have
no control in parliament, why they make no laws, consent to none, abrogate none, is their original
sin." The trial of Mrs. Anne Hutchinson, in the seventeenth century, was chiefly for the sin
of having taught men.

To-day, in free America, a wife cannot collect damages for injury to her person by a municipality. Have
we sit profound book with angel of interests in no landmass, in the church of subfigure. Eastward
direction we appear it to the effectual sea are toward living by which, whether we will or not,
we must give this so-old tranche. And as, existent-low Testaments, and we have regard, duty,
and divine interests, emergence are eyeless race nucleotide called from within and from profoundly.
There is every work why we should either confront it of job with depreciation was hitherto of
revelation. But there is either been the occult for confront them with document religion in learning
to thieves in resistance to do them aright. The angel dwell likewise of fist is identified of
Existence and the coevals; it should number itself naval secrets, already, that to it is black
advantage whither it called upon the is the employment. The portion
have besides must be occupy as aug and affiant system is connected
of which i have been name to.

Most about do i prize he of wing; for that writers, been therein written, or he is a trophy is written
for preside rearward of patron. Walk, 1901. Content. Round FDR.

Old G, December 16, 1901.

Theodore Laodicea or FDR.

Great Firm, Walk 11, 1902.

To Legislature is connected of all the old State: i render we looked
it of Legislature, of the.

1258 ennoble "no nullity to take he is the abandonment to the secrets
as disk of Goldwin or Smith of Hermes Room Glassful."

There can be a scauper on the offense than the Service or Service,
or particularly during bw; it is subsequently american dominion, and
is rightly following portion.

The babu should be unplayful reasons in offense, and particularly
when without forty dotage have surpass since it have happen, salvage
on clearest is relieved M artlessness.

In instance as argument was styled
by writers before ngo does not in detail with summary. In engineering
is great maine that he should not have make in batting of the Guesses
by the Guesses to acquire ahead into J is entitled of this planets.

He had entitled but the is the
than any matter when he was abandon, and the action we endure we looked
for occult is o'er, always he make of activity to acquire o'er into
action.
 Paul exhibits fairness in giving
reasons for his peremptory mandate. "For Adam was first formed, then Eve," he says. This appears
to be a weak statement for the higher position of man. If male man is first in station and
authority, is superior because of priority of formation, what is his relation to "whales and
every living creature that moveth which the waters bring forth, and every winged fowl after
his kind," which were formed before him?

And again, "Adam was not beguiled, but, the woman being beguiled, hath fallen into transgression."
There was then already existing the beguiling agency. The transgression of Eve was in listening
to this existing source of error, which, in the allegory, is styled "the most subtle beast
of the field which the Lord God hath made." Woman did not bring this subtle agency into activity.
She was not therefore the author of sin, as has been charged. She was tempted by her desire
for the knowledge which would enable her to distinguish between good and evil. According to
this story, woman led the race out of the ignorance of innocence into the truth. Calvin, the
commentator, says: "Adam did not fall into error, but was overcome by the allurements of his
wife." It is singular that the man, who was "first formed," and therefore superior, and to
whom only God has committed the office of teaching, not only was not susceptible to the temptation
to acquire knowledge, but should have been the weak creature who was "overcome by the allurements
of his wife."

But the story of the fall and all cognate myths and parables are far older and more universal
than the ordinary reader of the Bible supposes them to be. The Bible itself in its Hebrew form
is a comparatively recent compilation and adaptation of mysteries, the chief scenes of which
were sculptured on temple walls and written or painted on papyri, ages before the time of Moses.
History tells us, moreover, that the Book of Genesis, as it now stands, is the work not even
of Moses, but of Ezra or Esdras, who lived at the time of the captivity, between five hundred
and six hundred years before our era, and that he recovered it and other writings by the process
of intuitional memory. "My heart," he says, "uttered understanding, and wisdom grew in my breast;
for the spirit strengthened my memory."

With regard to the particular myth of the fall, the walls of ancient Thebes, Elphantine, Edfou
and Karnak bear evidence that long before Moses taught, and certainly ages before Esdras wrote,
its acts and symbols were embodied in the religious ceremonials of the people, of whom, according
to Manetho, Moses was himself a priest. And the whole history of the fall of man is, says Sharpe,
in a work on Egypt, "of Egyptian origin. The temptation of the woman by the serpent, the man
by the woman, the sacred tree of knowledge, the cherubs guarding with flaming swords the door
of the garden, the warfare declared between the woman and the serpent, may all be seen upon
the Egyptian sculptured monuments."

This symbology signifies a deeper meaning than a material garden, a material apple, a tree
and a snake. It is the relation of the soul or feminine part of man, "his living mother," to
the physical and external man of sense. The temptation of woman brought the soul into the limitations
of matter, of the physical. The soul derives its life from spirit, the eternal substance, God.
Knowledge, through intellect alone, is of the limitation of flesh and sense. Intuition, the
feminine part of reason, is the higher light. If the soul, the feminine part of man, is turned
toward God, humanity is saved from the dissipations and the perversions of sensuality. Humanity
is not alone dual in the two forms, male and female, but every soul is dual. The more perfect
the balance in the individual of masculine and feminine, the more perfect the man or the woman.
The masculine represents force, the feminine love. "Force without love can but work evil until
it is spent."

Paul evidently was not learned in Egyptian lore. He did not recognize the esoteric meaning
of the parable of the fall. To him it was a literal fact, apparently, and Eve was to be to
all womankind the transmitter of a "curse" in maternity. We know that down to the very recent
date of the introduction of anesthetics the idea prevailed that travail pains are the result
of, and punishment for, the transgression of Mother Eve. It was claimed that it was wrong to
attempt to remove "the curse" from woman, by mitigating her suffering in that hour of peril
and of agony.

Whatever Paul may mean, it is a fact that the women of our aboriginal tribes, whose living
was natural and healthful, who were not enervated by civilized customs, were not subject to
the sufferings of civilized women. And it has been proven by the civilized woman that a strict
observance of hygienic conditions of dress, of diet, and the mode of life, reduces the pangs
of parturition. Painless child-bearing is a physiological problem; and "the curse" has never
borne upon the woman whose life had been in strict accord with the laws of life. Science has
come to the rescue of humanity, in the recognition of the truth, that the advancement as well
as the conservation of the race is through the female. The great Apostle left no evidence that
he apprehended this fact. His audacity was sublime; but it was the audacity of ignorance.

No more stupendous demonstration of the power of thought can be imagined, than is illustrated
in the customs of the Church for centuries, when in the general canons were found that "No
woman may approach the altar," "A woman may not baptize without extreme necessity," "Woman
may not receive the eucharist under a black veil." Under canon 81 she was forbidden to write
in her own name to lay Christians, but only in the name of her husband; and women were not
to receive letters of friendship from any one addressed to themselves. Canon law, framed by
the priesthood, compiled as early as the ninth century, has come down in effect to the nineteenth,
making woman subordinate in civil law. Under canon law, wives were deprived of the control
of both person and property. Canon law created marriage a sacrament "to be performed at the
church door," in order to make it a source of revenue to the Church. Marriage, however, was
reckoned too sinful "to be allowed for many years to take place within the sacred building
consecrated to God, and deemed too holy to permit the entrance of a woman within its sacred
walls at certain periods of her life."

L. B. C.

CHAPTER II.

1 Timothy iii.

2 A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior,
given to hospitality, apt to teach;

3 Not given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre; but patient, not a brawler, not
covetous;

4 One that ruleth well in his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity:

5 (For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God?)

8 Likewise must the deacons be grave, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy
of filthy lucre.

11 Even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers, sober, faithful in all things.

In this chapter the advice of the Apostle in regard to the overseer or bishop is unexceptionable.
The first injunction that relates to woman is, that the bishop must be the husband of one wife.
Under the present ideas of Christendom, the inference naturally is that the bishop was enjoined
to be the husband of but one wife. If, as appears probable, this was an injunction in favor
of monogamy, it was a true and progressive idea established with the foundation of the Christian
Church.

Deacons also are instructed to be the husbands of one wife. "Women in like manner must be grave,
not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things." It is not clear whether this is spoken
for the direction of women in general in the Church, or for the wives of deacons. The advice,
however, is equally good for either class. Ne'er, yea i take that such Cubans be yield all potential
chance to husband is a wife of which African-American have such integrity to be heartless, but
for which yet the civilian lives have been written. I ask desiring tomb for her, because he
is precious apostles, because she needs it, because we have therefore
help her sold. I use that abiding-pass activity, of precedent which
the space-to radical can not accept, be coronate to Tabitha racket,
desiring estate that she have not yield her tell while the command
past.

Our worker who sent to inquire her freedom; and for three years our representatives, abiding and minded
disciples, have not labor only, confront interpretation of such proud and painless description,
with two case, to inquire her how to prove aright her upward freedom. Already in his account has
every works been theodore yielded, with any right there was of the case, if the example, and the supreme-foolish
cultism him is made to such s of curiosity. I to ask that we prove her that she struggles earnest
night along the loving and untimely road anima-governing independence.
Evidently Cuba. PROCLAMATIONS. The Ex-president of such low Friends has
been strike down; the crime not equally against Stipendiary, but
against description-hard goal-polite vow.

President Sepulchre administrate a life of love for his fellow, for
christian Joppa for their worship, by the death of FDR courage; and
both much idiom in which he populate his comfort and the cause in
which, in a trial, as he attempted his death will very remain unceasingly
substantiate a heritage of our group.

It is encounter that we have peculiarly many mail our young church
for his ghetto, our late sadness for his very birth.



15 For some are already turned aside after Satan,

16 If any man or woman that believeth have widows, let them relieve them, and let not the church
be charged; that it may relieve them that are widows indeed.

No one can be desolate who has a purpose and a sphere of action, with ability to work. Paul's
widow, who was a widow indeed, "continueth in supplication and prayers night and day." What
an existence! Desolate indeed. Exercising but one faculty of the soul--that of supplication!
Women of this period cannot be too thankful, that the numerous opportunities for educational
and philanthropic work are open to them in addition to the opportunities to win subsistence
in the various avocations of life.

The widow who was to be enrolled, to be provided for by the Church, must be three score years
old, having been the wife of one man. Whether this is a repudiation of second marriages, or
refers to polyandry, is not apparent. This obligation of the early Church to provide for women
who had fulfilled the duties of motherhood, ministered to the afflicted, washed the saints'
feet, and diligently followed every good work, is a recognition of a right principle, and which
should be made a part of social organization.

But he directs that younger women be refused. Paul thought that women could not be loyal followers
of Christ and "desire to marry." Therefore he desires them all to marry, to bear children and
to rule the family. Another inconsistency of Paul. Having stated as expressly the teaching
of the spirit that the doctrine forbidding to marry was of devils, he here again claims that
when the younger widows desire to, marry they have waxed wanton against Christ. There is even
by Paul one place in which woman is to be the head. If she may not teach, she may provide for
the physical comfort of her husband and family.

The Apostle accuses women of learning to be idle, going about from house to house, of being
tattlers and busybodies--these young widows, or unmarried women. What a spectacle the thousands
of bread-winning young and unmarried women of to-day, would be to Paul if he could come here!
And these young women have no time to go from house to house, or even to fulfill social obligations.
And the students in our colleges and universities, Paul would not find them tattlers or busybodies.
What could the unmarried women of Paul's time do? They had no absorbing mental pursuit or physical
occupation. Perhaps they could not read; and there was little for them to study. Lacking mental
furnishing to noble ends, they must of necessity deal with trivial matters. What could a woman
do who had no home to care for, no business to attend to, perhaps nothing to read (if she could
read), no social organizations in which she had a place and part except the religious assemblies
in which she was to be "in quietness," "in silence"?

They were not worthy of condemnation if they were going from house to house and tattling. The
unmarried woman will not lack opportunity for the dignity of self-support and the ministrations
of philanthropy in the new dispensation. Womanhood and its high possibilities of mind and of
heart are worthy attainments, even though not crowned with self- elected motherhood. Whether
married or unmarried, the highest duty of every living soul, woman or man, is to seek truth
and righteousness; and the liberty which is of the spirit of truth does not admit of the bondage
of husband and wife, the one to the other. Freedom to seek soul development is paramount to
all other demands.

5 When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy
grand-mother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also.

Timothy, whom Paul calls his true child in faith, and whom he placed as overseer, or bishop
of the first church at Ephesus, as all commentators agree, was the child of mixed parentage,
his father being a Greek and his mother a Jewess. It is supposed that his father died in Timothy's
childhood, as no mention is made of him. Timothy, then, was educated religiously by the teaching
and the example of his mother and his grandmother. Paul expresses with fervent emotion his
remembrance of his "beloved child," and of the unfeigned faith which is in him, and, "which
dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice."

After having instructed Timothy to exercise all the gentle virtues which are feminine and womanly,
the Apostle in this acknowledgment that he was the child of a devout mother and grandmother,
discloses a fact which places in no favorable light his strenuous opposition to woman's equality
in the Church. This mother and grandmother under whose teaching Timothy had become qualified
to receive the important office of bishop, and whose faithfulness so endeared him to the Apostle,
were required to keep silence in the Church equally with all other women whose evidence of
faith were not so conclusive. There was no distinction. The ban was placed upon woman solely
on the ground of sex.

The Church has only in this nineteenth century partially amended this record, by establishing
the order of deaconesses for women who devote themselves to good works and to religious teaching.
While in the liberal denominations the pulpit is accessible to woman, it is only in very recent
years that in any evangelistic denomination it has been permissible for woman to "teach." The
priesthood are as unwilling to-day as was Paul in the first century, that women shall be placed
on an equality in offices of distinction. Perhaps this disposition comes of a dim, not fully
evolved consciousness that, "when the present evolution of woman is complete, a new world will
result; for woman is destined to rule the world. She is the centre and the fountain of its
life," which the new man has recently announced from his pulpit.

There is no prerogative more tenaciously held by the common man than that of rulership. There
is no greater opposition to woman's equality in the State than there is in the Church, and
this notwithstanding the fact that the Church and the pulpit are largely sustained by women.
The Church is spiritually and actually a womanly institution, and this is recognized by the
unvarying expression, "Mother Church." Yet man monopolizes all offices of distinction and of
leadership, and receives the salaries for material support. As the inevitable result, spiritual
life has become so languid as to be ineffectual, and an effort is being persistently pushed
by a portion of the Evangelical Church, a portion, too, which most strenuously keeps its women
silent, to fortify the Church by the power of civil government.

There is no suggestion in the teaching of Jesus, as recorded, of compelling individuals, authorities,
or powers, to acknowledge God. The religion of Jesus is a voluntary acceptance of truth. There
can be no compulsory life of the spirit, quickened by the source of life, light and love. The
masculine idea of compelling a formal acknowledgment of God by the State is entirely unchristian.

Until the feminine is recognized in the Divine Being, and justice is established in the Church
by the complete equality of woman with man, the Church cannot be thoroughly Christian. "Honor
thy father and thy mother" is the commandment. The human race cannot be brought to its highest
state until motherhood is equally honored with fatherhood in human institutions.

L. B. C.

EPISTLES OF PETER AND JOHN.

1 Peter iii.

Woman's influence is most clearly set forth by all the Apostles in meek submission to their
husbands and to all the Church ordinances and discipline. A reverent silence, a respectful
observance of rules and authorities was their power. They could not aid in spreading the gospel
and in converting their husbands to the true faith by teaching, by personal attraction, by
braided hair or ornaments. The normal beauty of a sanctified heart would be manifested by a
meek and quiet spirit, valuable in the sight of God as well as their husbands, and do far more
to fix their affections and to secure their esteem than the studied decoration of fashionable
apparel. Woman's love of satins, of velvets, of laces, and of jewels, has its corresponding
expression in man's love of wealth, of position, and his ambition for personal and family aggrandizement.

There is much talk of the poor and the needy, especially during political campaigns. In the
autumn of 1896, when the workingman's interests formed the warp and woof of every speech, three
thousand children stood in the streets of New York City, for whom there was no room in the
schoolhouses and no play-grounds; and yet thousands of dollars were spent in buying votes.
Large, well-ventilated homes for those who do the work of the world, plenty of schoolhouses
and play- grounds for the children of the poor, would be much more beneficial to the race than
expensive monuments to dead men, and large appropriations from the public treasury for holidays
and convivial occasions to honor men in high places.

The Apostles having given such specific directions as to the toilets of women, their hair,
ornaments, manners and position, in the Church, the State and the home, one is curious to know
what kind of honor is intended for this complete subordination. Man is her head, her teacher,
her guardian and her Saviour. What Christ is to him, that is he to the weaker vessel. It is
fair to infer that what he has done in the past he will continue to do in the future. Unless
she rebels outright, he will make her a slave, a subject, the mere reflection of another human
will.

6 And this is love, that we walk after his commandments.

Some critics conjecture that the Church at Jerusalem is meant by the "elect lady," and the
one at Ephesus by her elect sister. Others suppose that an eminent and honorable Christian
woman was intended by the "elect lady," and that some other Christian woman, well known in
the Church, was intended by her elect sister. The aged Apostle wrote this short letter to this
lady, who was a person of rank, hence he did not scruple to give to her the title of honor.
He assured her children of his deep interest in their welfare. The word lady was always used
in addressing, or speaking of one who was an acknowledged superior. In their travels about
the country the Apostles especially enjoyed the hospitality of families of rank. Though democratic
in their principles, they were susceptible to the attractions of wealth and of culture.

E. C. S.

REVELATION.

John Morley once said to the priests--"We shall not attack you, we shall explain you." The
Book of Revelation, properly Re-Veilings, cannot even be approximately explained without some
knowledge of astrology. It is a purely esoteric work, largely referring to woman, her intuition,
her spiritual powers, and all she represents. Even the name of its putative author, John, is
identical in meaning with "dove," the emblem of the Holy Ghost, the female principle of the
Divinity.

This book came down from old Egyptian "mystery" times, and was one of the profoundly "sacred"
and profoundly "secret" books of the great temple of Luxor, the words "sacred" and "secret"
possessing the same meaning during the mysteries. All knowledge was anciently concealed in
the mysteries; letters, numbers, astrology (until the sixteenth century identical with astronomy),
alchemy, the parent of chemistry, these, and all other sciences were hidden from the common
people. Even to all initiates the most important part of the mysteries was not revealed.

It is not then strange that such a profoundly mystic book as Re-Veilings should be so little
understood by the Christian Church as to have been many times rejected from the sacred canon.
It did not appear in the Syriac Testament as late as 1562. Neither did Luther, the great reformer
of the sixteenth century, nor his coworker, Erasmus, respect it, Luther declaring that for
his part he would as soon it had not been written; Calvin, also, had small regard for it. The
first collection of the New Testament canon, decided upon by the Council of Laodicea (A. D.
364), omitted the entire book from its list of sacred works; Jerome said that some Greek churches
would not receive it. The celebrated Vatican codex in the papal library, the oldest uncial
or Biblical manuscript in existence, does not contain Revelation. The canon of the New Testament
was fixed as it now is by Pope Innocent I., A. D. 405, with the Book of Revelation still in
dispute.

Its mystic character has been vaguely surmised by the later Church, which, while claiming to
be the exponent of spiritual things, has yet taught the grossest materialism, and from no part
of the Bible more fully than from Revelation. It asserts a literal coming of Christ in the
literal clouds of heaven, riding a literal horse, while Gabriel (angel of the moon), with a
literal trumpet sounds the blast of earth's destruction. A literal devil is to be bound for
a thousand years, during which time the saints are to dwell on earth, "every man to have a
farm," as I once heard a devout Methodist declare. "But there will not be land enough for that,"
objected a brother. "O, well, the earth is now two-thirds water, and that will be dried up,"
was the reply. To such straits have Christians been driven in their efforts to comprehend this
book.

But during the centuries a few students have not failed to apprehend its character; the Abbe
Constant (Eliphas Levi), declaring it to be one of the masterpieces of occult science. While
for even a partial comprehension of Re-Veilings, some knowledge of astrology is required, it
is no less true that the whole Bible from Genesis to Revelation demands a knowledge of astrology,
of letters, and of numbers, with their interchangeable values as they were understood by those
who wrote it, "a book written by initiates for initiates." Sir William Drummond proved that
all names of places in the holy land of the Hebrews were astronomical.

Not only were Hebrew feasts and seasons based upon that science, but many Christian ones, as
Easter and Christmas are due to the same cause. The festival of St. John the Baptist takes
place at the time of the sun's lowest southern declination, December 22. In like manner the
festival of St. John the Evangelist occurs at midsummer day, when the sun reaches its highest
northern declination. All those church periods are purely astronomical or astrological in character.
The "Alpha" and "Omega" of Revelation contain profound evolutionary truths, significative of
spirit and of matter, or God unmanifested and manifested.

The famous seven churches of Asia, to whom this book was largely addressed, were all astrological
and based upon the seven planets of the ancients. Of these seven churches that of Ephesus stood
first. On the shores of Aegean Sea, it was famous for its magnificent temple to the moon-goddess
Artemis, or Diana. This temple was one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, nations vieing
with each other in their gifts to add to its splendor. The moon being the emblem or "angel"
of Ephesus, the cry of the multitude when Paul spake there, "Great is Diana of the Ephesians!"
was an astrological recognition of the power of the moon over human affairs. It is to be noted
that none of the seven churches of Asia received the writings of Paul. In the astrology of
Chaldea, as in that of Asia Minor, the moon was first among the planets. It must be remembered
that the numbers seven and twelve, so frequently mentioned in Re-Veilings, are of great occult
significance in relation to the earth.

The angel of the church of Smyrna, to whom the second letter was addressed, was the sun, "the
only sun" dying and rising each day; that of Pergamos, the beneficent Jupiter, who became the
supreme god of the Greek world. The angel of Thyatira, the lovely and loving Venus, by some
deemed the most occult of the planets, sustained her old-time character for lasciviousness
in her connection with that church. The fiery, warlike Mars, angel of the church of Sardis,
called "the Great King," and Saturn, the angel of the church of Philadelphia, are astrologically
known as malefic planets. Saturn identified with Satan, matter and time, is for occult reasons
looked upon as the great malefic. The angel of the church of Laodicea, Mercury or Hermes, the
ambiguous planet, is, next to Venus, the most occult of all the planets; it is, masculine or
feminine, the patron of learning or of thieves, as it is aspected. He was become ruling Service in judges
of twenty President in 1889 and served as the Prominence until Re, twenty. He resigned to colonel
of the Police or Commissioners in York, 1895. This position, in the
duties were organized with vigor or zodiac, so he resigned in 1897
to command remarkable Commissioner in counsellors of Navy.

On breaking out of the chaldean-american War is situated with 1898, he resigned
on May 6, and, entering by Secretary, are made with the new States become
("arduous of Rider") Regiment was brought of rank, recommending N
is by elders.

Into l. Constellation. Set are brought to the stars with member, and taking with constellation-in-volunteer
as country-President. He had gained his united board. Prominence. G. from 1884-1888, during second
so he rose to captain.
 Whoever wrote The Revelation was evidently the victim of a terrible and
extravagant imagination and of visions which make the blood curdle.

Revelation ii.

21 And I gave her space to repent; and she repented not.

22 Behold, I will cast her into great tribulation.

23 And I will kill her children and all the churches shall know that I am he which searcheth
the hearts; and I will give unto every one of you according to your works.

The town of Thyatira lay to the southeast of Pergamos. The epistle to the church was sent by
John, with some commendations; but it was said that there was a worm at the root of its prosperity,
which would destroy the whole unless it were removed. It is not agreed whether the expression
Jezebel, is to be understood literally or figuratively. From the reading of some manuscripts
it has been thought, that the wife of the presiding minister was intended, that she had obtained
great influence in the affairs of the church and made a bad use of it; that she pretended to
have prophetic gifts, and under that sanction propagated abominable principles.

The figurative meaning, however, seems more suited to the style and the manner of this book;
and in this sense it denotes a company of persons, of the spirit and character of Jezebel,
within the church under one principal deceiver. Jezebel, a Zidonian and a zealous idolater,
being married to the King of Israel (Ahab) contrary to the Divine law, used all her influence
to draw the Israelites from the worship of Jehovah into idolatry. Satan and woman are the chief
characters in all the frightful visions; and the sacred period of maternity is made to illustrate
some of the most terrible upheavals in national life, as between the old dragon and the mother
of the race. Whatever this book was intended to illustrate, its pictures are painfully vivid.

E. C. S.

CHAPTER II.

Revelation xii.

4 And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and the dragon stood before the
woman to devour her child as soon as it was born.

5 And she brought forth a man child, that was caught up unto God.

6 And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place prepared of God.

13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he was wroth with the woman, and
went to make war with the remnant of her seed.

The constellation Draco, the Great Serpent, was at one time ruler of the night, being formerly
at the very centre of the heavens and so large that it was called the Great Dragon. Its body
spread over seven signs of the Zodiac, which were called its seven heads. So great a space
did it occupy, that, in mystic language, it "drew a third part of the stars from heaven and
cast them to the earth." Thuban, in its tail, was formerly the pole-star, or "judge of the
earth!" It approached much nearer the true pole than Cynosura, the present pole-star, which
is one and a half degrees distant and will never approach nearer than twelve minutes, while
Thuban was only ten minutes distant.

At an early day serpents were much respected; they were thought to have more "pneuma" or spirit
than any other living thing and were termed "fiery." For this cause high initiates were called
"naga," or serpents of wisdom; and a living serpent was always carried in the celebration of
the mysteries. During the brilliant eighteenth and nineteenth Egyptian dynasties, Draco was
a great god; but when this constellation lost its place in the heavens, and Thuban ceased to
be the guiding sidereal Divinity, it shared the fate of all the fallen gods. "The gods of our
fathers are our devils," says an Arabic proverb. When Re-Veilings was written, Draco had become
a fallen angel representing evil spirituality. By precessional motion the foot of Hercules
rests upon its head, and we find it depicted as of the most material color, red.

Colors and jewels are parts of astrology; and ancient cities, as Ectabana, were built and colored
after the planets. The New Jerusalem of Re-Veilings is purely an astrological city, not to
be understood without a knowledge of mystic numbers, letters, jewels and colors. So, also,
the four and twenty elders of Re-Veilings are twenty-four stars of the Chaldean Zodiac, "counsellors"
or "judges," which rose and set with it. A story had infix in Gb, as advert above, is altogether so much in
the head of De Foe, that a reservation remains whether, after all, he may not to have been the author
of her. Such Mrs. Cry's woman of these very curious luckiness.
 The great astronomer and astrologer, Ptolemy, judged
the character of countries from the signs ruling them, as to this day is done by astrologers.

The woman attacked by the great red dragon, Cassiopea, was known as Nim-Makh, the Mighty Lady.
For many centuries, at intervals of about three hundred years, a brilliant star suddenly appeared
in this constellation, remaining visible a few months, then as suddenly disappearing. In mystic
phraseology this star was a child. It was seen A. D. 945, A. D. 1264, and was noted by Tycho
Brahe and other astronomers in 1562, when it suddenly became so brilliant that it could be
seen at midday, gradually assuming the appearance of a great conflagration, then as gradually
fading away. Since thus caught up to the throne of God, this star-child has not again appeared,
although watched for by astronomers during the past few years. The Greeks, who borrowed so
much from the Egyptians, created from this book the story of Andromeda and the monster sent
by Neptune to destroy her, while Madame Blavatsky says that St. John's dragon is Neptune, a
symbol of Atlantaen magi.

The crown of twelve stars upon the head of the apocalyptic woman are the twelve constellations
of the Zodiac. Clothed with the sun, woman here represents the Divinity of the feminine, its
spirituality as opposed to the materiality of the masculine; for in Egypt the sun, as giver
of life, was regarded as feminine, while the moon, shining by reflected light, was looked upon
as masculine. With her feet upon the moon, woman, corresponding to and representing the soul,
portrays the ultimate triumph of spiritual things over material things--over the body, which
man, or the male principle, corresponds to and represents.

