BARCHESTER TOWERS

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I       Who will be the new Bishop?
II      Hiram's Hospital, according to Act of Parliament
III     Dr and Mrs Proudie
IV      The Bishop's Chaplain
V       A Morning Visit
VI      War
VII     The Dean and Chapter take Counsel
VIII    The Ex-Warden rejoices at his probable Return to the Hospital
IX      The Stanhope Family
X       Mrs Proudie's Reception--Commenced
XI      Mrs Proudie's Reception--Concluded
XII     Slope versus Harding
XIII    The Rubbish Cart
XIV     The New Champion
XV      The Widow's Suitors
XVI     Baby Worship
XVII    Who shall be Cock of the Walk?
XVIII   The Widow's Persecution
XIX     Barchester by Moonlight
XX      Mr Arabin
XXI     St Ewold's Parsonage
XXII    The Thornes of Ullathorne
XXIII   Mr Arabin reads himself in at St Ewold's
XXIV    Mr Slope manages matters very well at Puddingdale
XXV     Fourteen Arguments in favour of Mr Quiverful's Claims
XXVI    Mrs Proudie wrestles and gets a Fall
XXVII   A Love Scene
XXVIII  Mrs Bold is entertained by Dr and Mrs Grantly at Plumstead
XXIX    A serious Interview
XXX     Another Love Scene
XXXI    The Bishop's Library
XXXII   A New Candidate for Ecclesiastical Honours
XXXIII  Mrs Proudie Victrix
XXXIV   Oxford--The Master and Tutor of Lazarus
XXXV    Miss Thorne's Fete Champetre
XXXVI   Ullathorne Sports--Act I
XXXVII  The Signora Neroni, the Countess De Courcy, and
        Mrs Proudie meet each other at Ullathorne
XXXVIII The Bishop sits down to Breakfast and the Dean dies
XXXIX   The Lookalofts and the Greenacres
XL      Ullathorne Sports--Act II
XLI     Mrs Bold confides her Sorrow to her Friend Miss Stanhope
XLII    Ullathorne Sports--Act III
XLIII   Mrs and Mrs Quiverful are made happy.
        Mr Slope is encouraged by the Press
XLIV    Mrs Bold at Home
XLV     The Stanhopes at Home
XLVI    Mr Slope's parting Interview with the Signora

XLVII   The Dean Elect
XLVIII  Miss Thorne shows her Talent at Match-making
XLIX    The Belzebub Colt
L       The Archdeacon is satisfied with the State of Affairs
LI      Mr Slope's Farewell to the Palace and its Inhabitants
LII     The new Dean takes Possession of the Deanery,
        and the New Warden of the Hospital
LIII    Conclusion

CHAPTER I

WHO WILL BE THE NEW BISHOP?

In the latter days of July in the year 185-, a most important question was for ten days hourly
asked in the cathedral city of Barchester, and answered every hour in various ways--Who was
to be the new Bishop?

The death of old Dr Grantly, who had for many years filled the chair with meek authority, took
place exactly as the ministry of Lord - was going to give place to that Lord -. The illness
of the good old man was long and lingering, and it became at last a matter of intense interest
to those concerned whether the new appointment should be made by a conservative or liberal
government.

Bishop Grantly died as he had lived, peaceably, slowly, without pain and without excitement.
The breath ebbed from him almost imperceptibly, and for a month before his death, it was a
question whether he was alive or dead.

A trying time was this for the archdeacon, for whom was designed the reversion of his father's
see by those who then had the giving away of episcopal thrones. I would not be understood to
say that the prime minister had in so many words promised the bishopric to Dr Grantly. He was
too discreet a man for that. There is a proverb with reference to the killing of cats, and
those who know anything either of high or low government places, will be well aware that a
promise may be made without positive words, and that an expectant may be put into the highest
state of encouragement, though the great man on whose breath he hangs may have done no more
than whisper that 'Mr So-and-so is certainly a rising man.'

Such a whisper had been made, and was known by those who heard it to signify that the cures
of the diocese of Barchester should not be taken out of the hands of the archdeacon. The then
prime minister was all in all at Oxford, and had lately passed a night at the house of the
master of Lazarus. Now the master of Lazarus--which is, by the bye, in many respects the most
comfortable, as well as the richest college at Oxford,--was the archdeacon's most intimate
friend and most trusted counsellor. On the occasion of the prime minister's visit, Dr Grantly
was of course present, and the meeting was very gracious. On the following morning Dr Gwynne,
the master, told the archdeacon that in his opinion the matter was settled.

At this time the bishop was quite on his last legs; but the ministry was also tottering. Dr
Grantly returned from Oxford happy and elated, to resume his place in the palace, and to continue
to perform for the father the last duties of a son; which, to give him his due, he performed
with more tender care than was to be expected from his usual somewhat worldly manners.

A month since the physicians had named four weeks as the outside period during which breath
could be supported within the body of the dying man. At the end of the month the physicians
wondered, and named another fortnight. The old man lived on wine alone, but at the end of the
fortnight he still lived; and the tidings of the fall of the ministry became more frequent.
Sir Lamda Mewnew and Sir Omicron Pie, the two great London doctors, now came down for the fifth
time, and declared, shaking their learned heads, that another week of life was impossible;
and as they sat down to lunch in the episcopal dining-room, whispered to the archdeacon their
own private knowledge that the ministry must fall within five days. The son returned to his
father's room, and after administering with his own hands the sustaining modicum of madeira,
sat down by the bedside to calculate his chances.

The ministry were to be out within five days: his father was to be dead within--No, he rejected
that view of the subject. The ministry were to be out, and the diocese might probably be vacant
at the same period. There was much doubt as to the names of the men who were to succeed to
power, and a week must elapse before a Cabinet was formed. Would not vacancies be filled by
the out-going men during that week? Dr Grantly had a kind of idea that such would be the case,
but did not know; and then he wondered at his own ignorance of such a question.

He tried to keep his mind away from the subject, but he could not. The race was so very close,
and the stakes were so very high. He then looked at the dying man's impassive, placid face.
There was no sign there of death or disease; it was something thinner than of yore, somewhat
grayer, and the deep lines of age more marked; but, as far as he could judge, life might yet
hang there for weeks to come. Sir Lamda Mewnew and Sir Omicron Pie had thrice been wrong, and
might yet be wrong thrice again. The old bishop slept during twenty of the twenty-four hours,
but during the short periods of his waking moments, he knew both his son and his dear friend
Mr Harding, the archdeacon's father-in-law, and would thank them tenderly for their care and
love. Now he lay sleeping like a baby, resting easily on his back, his mouth just open, and
his few gray hairs straggling from beneath his cap; his breath was perfectly noiseless, and
his thin, wan hand, which lay above the coverlid, never moved. Nothing could be easier than
the old man's passage from this world to the next.

But by no means easy were the emotions of him who sat there watching. He knew it must be now
or never. He was already over fifty, and there was little chance that his friends who were
now leaving office would soon return to it. No probable British prime minister but he who was
now in, he who was so soon to be out, would think of making a bishop of Dr Grantly. Thus he
thought long and sadly, in deep silence, and then gazed at that still living face, and then
at last dared to ask himself whether he really longed for his father's death.

The effort was a salutary one, and the question was answered in a moment. The proud, wishful,
worldly man, sank on his knees by the bedside, and taking the bishop's hand within his own,
prayed eagerly that his sins might be forgiven him.

His face was still buried in the clothes when the door of the bed-room opened noiselessly,
and Mr Harding entered with a velvet step. Mr Harding's attendance at that bedside had been
nearly as constant as that of the archdeacon, and his ingress and egress was as much a matter
of course as that of his son-in-law. He was standing close beside the archdeacon before he
was perceived, and would have also knelt in prayer had he not feared that his doing so might
have caused some sudden start, and have disturbed the dying man. Dr Grantly, however, instantly
perceived him, and rose from his knees. As he did so Mr Harding took both his hands, and pressed
them warmly. There was more fellowship between them at that moment than there had ever been
before, and it so happened that after circumstances greatly preserved the feeling. As they
stood there pressing each other's hands, the tears rolled freely down their cheeks.

'God bless you, my dears,'--said the bishop with feeble voice as he woke--'God bless you--may
God bless you both, my dear children:' and so he died.

There was no loud rattle in the throat, no dreadful struggle, no palpable sign of death; but
the lower jaw fell a little from its place, and the eyes, which had been so constantly closed
in sleep, now remained fixed and open. Neither Mr Harding nor Dr Grantly knew that life was
gone, though both suspected it.

'I believe it's all over,' said Mr Harding, still pressing the other's hands. 'I think--nay,
I hope it is.'

'I will ring the bell,' said the other, speaking all but in a whisper. 'Mrs Phillips should
be here.'

Mrs Phillips, the nurse, was soon in the room, and immediately, with practised hand, closed
those staring eyes.

'It's all over, Mrs Phillips?' asked Mr Harding.

'My lord's no more,' said Mrs Phillips, turning round and curtseying with a solemn face; 'His
lordship's gone more like a sleeping baby than any that I ever saw.'

'It's a great relief, archdeacon,' said Mr Harding, 'A great relief--dear good, excellent old
man. Oh that our last moments may be as innocent and peaceful as his!'

'Surely,' said Mrs Phillips. 'The Lord be praised for all his mercies; but, for a meek, mild,
gentle-spoken Christian, his lordship was--' and Mrs Phillips, with unaffected but easy grief,
put up her white apron to her flowing eyes.

'You cannot but rejoice that it is over,' said Mr Harding, still counselling his friend. The
archdeacon's mind, however, had already travelled from the death chamber to the closet of the
prime minister. He had brought himself to pray for his father's life, but now that that life
was done, to dally with the fact of the bishop's death--useless to lose perhaps everything
for the pretence of a foolish sentiment.

But how was he to act while his father-in-law stood there holding his hand? How, without appearing
unfeeling, was he to forget his father in the bishop--to overlook what he had lost, and think
only of what he might possibly gain?

'No; I suppose not,' said he, at last, in answer to Mr Harding. 'We have all expected it for
so long.'

Mr Harding took him by the arm and led him from the room. 'We will see him again to-morrow
morning,' said he; 'We had better leave the room now to the woman.' And so they went downstairs.

It was already evening and nearly dark. It was most important that the prime minister should
know that night that the diocese was vacant. Everything might depend on it; and so, in answer
to Mr Harding's further consolation, the archdeacon suggested that a telegraph message should
be immediately sent off to London. Mr Harding who had really been somewhat surprised to find
Dr Grantly, as he thought, so much affected, was rather taken aback; but he made no objection.
He knew that the archdeacon had some hope of succeeding to his father's place, though he by
no means knew how highly raised that hope had been.

'Yes,' said Dr Grantly, collecting himself and shaking off his weakness, 'We must send a message
at once; we don't know what might be the consequences of delay. Will you do it?'

'I! Oh yes; certainly: I'll do it, only I don't know exactly what it is you want.'

Dr Grantly sat down before a writing table, and taking pen and ink, wrote on a slip of paper
as follows:-

                  By Electric Telegraph,
     For the Earl of -, Downing Street, or elsewhere.
            'The Bishop of Barchester is dead.'
        Message sent by the Rev. Septimus Harding.

'There,' said he. 'Just take that to the telegraph office at the railway station, and give
it as it is; they'll probably make you copy it on to one of their own slips; that's all you'll
have to do: then you'll have to pay them half-a-crown.' And the archdeacon put his hand in
his pocket and pulled out the necessary sum.

Mr Harding felt very much like an errand-boy, and also felt that he was called on to perform
his duties as such at rather an unseemly time; but he said nothing, and took the slip of paper
and the proffered coin.

'But you've put my name into it, archdeacon.'

'Yes,' said the other, 'There should be the name of some clergyman, you know, and what name
so proper as that of so old a friend as yourself? The Earl won't look at the name you may be
sure of that; but my dear Mr Harding, pray don't lose any time.'

Mr Harding got as far as the library door on his way to the station, when he suddenly remembered
the news with which he was fraught when he entered to poor bishop's bedroom. He had found the
moment so inopportune for any mundane tidings, that he had repressed the words which were on
his tongue, and immediately afterwards all recollection of the circumstance was for the time
banished by the scene which had occurred.

'But, archdeacon,' said, he turning back, 'I forgot to tell you--the ministry are out.'

'Out!' ejaculated the archdeacon, in a tone which too plainly showed the anxiety of his dismay,
although under the circumstances of the moment he endeavoured to control himself: 'Out! Who
told you so?'

Mr Harding explained that news to this effect had come down by electric telegraph, and that
the tidings had been left at the palace door by Mr Chadwick.

The archdeacon sat silent for awhile, meditating, and Mr Harding stood looking at him. 'Never
mind,' said the archdeacon at last; 'Send the message all the same. The news must be sent to
some one, and there is at present no one else in a position to receive it. Do it at once, my
dear friend; you know I would not trouble you, were I in a state to do it myself. A few minutes'
time is of the greatest importance.'

Mr Harding went out and sent the message, and it may be as well that we should follow it to
its destination. Within thirty minutes of its leaving Barchester it reached the Earl of - in
his inner library. What elaborate letters, what eloquent appeals, what indignant remonstrances,
he might there have to frame, at such a moment, may be conceived, but not described! How he
was preparing his thunder for successful rivals, standing like a British peer with his back
to the sea-coal fire, and his hands in his breeches pockets,--how his fine eye was lit up with
anger, and his forehead gleamed with patriotism,--how he stamped his foot as he thought of
his heavy associates,--how he all but swore as he remembered how much too clever one of them
had been,--my creative readers may imagine. But was he so engaged? No; history and truth compel
me to deny it. He was sitting easily in a lounging chair, conning over a Newmarket list, and
by his elbow on the table was lying open an uncut French novel on which he was engaged.

He opened the cover in which the message was enclosed, and having read it, he took his pen
and wrote on the back of it--

      'For the Earl of -,
       With the Earl of -'s compliments,'

and sent off again on its journey.

Thus terminated our unfortunate friend's chance of possessing the glories of a bishopric.

The names of many divines were given in the papers as that of the bishop elect. The British
Grandmother declared that Dr Gwynne was to be the man, in compliment to the late ministry.

This was a heavy blow to Dr Grantly, but he was not doomed to see himself superseded by his
friend. The Anglican Devotee put forward confidently the claims of a great London preacher
of austere doctrines; and The Eastern Hemisphere, an evening paper supposed to possess much
official knowledge, declared in favour of an eminent naturalist, a gentleman most completely
versed in the knowledge of rocks and minerals, but supposed by many to hold on religious subjects
no special doctrines whatever. The Jupiter, that daily paper which, as we all know, is the
only true source of infallibly correct information on all subjects, for a while was silent,
but at last spoke out. The merits of all these candidates were discussed and somewhat irreverently
disposed of, and then The Jupiter declared that Dr Proudie was to be the man.

Dr Proudie was the man. Just a month after the demise of the late bishop, Dr Proudie kissed
the Queen's hand as his successor elect.

We must beg to be allowed to draw a curtain over the sorrows of the archdeacon as he sat, sombre
and sad at heart, in the study of his parsonage at Plumstead Episcopi. On the day subsequent
to the dispatch of the message he heard that the Earl of - had consented to undertake the formation
of a ministry, and from that moment he knew that his chance was over. Many will think that
he was wicked to grieve for the loss of episcopal power, wicked to have coveted it, nay, wicked
even to have thought about it, in the way and at the moment he had done so.

With such censures, I cannot profess that I completely agree. The nolo episcopari, though still
in use, is so directly at variance with the tendency of all human aspirations of rising priests
in the Church of England. A lawyer does not sin in seeking to be a judge, or in compassing
his wishes by all honest means. A young diplomat entertains a fair ambition when he looks forward
to be the lord of a first-rate embassy; and a poor novelist when he attempts to rival Dickens
or rise above Fitzjames, commits no fault, though he may be foolish.

Sydney Smith truly said that in these recreant days we cannot expect to find the majesty of
St. Paul beneath the cassock of a curate. If we look to our clergymen to be more than men,
we shall probably teach ourselves to think that they are less, and can hardly hope to raise
the character of the pastor by denying to him the right to entertain the aspirations of a man.

Our archdeacon was worldly--who among us is not so? He was ambitious--who among us is ashamed
to own that 'last infirmity of noble minds!' He was avaricious, my readers will say. No--it
was not for love of lucre that he wished to be bishop of Barchester. He was his father's only
child, and his father had left him great wealth. His preferment brought him in nearly three
thousand a year. The bishopric, as cut down by the Ecclesiastical Commission, was only five.
He would be a richer man as archdeacon, than he could be as a bishop. But he certainly did
desire to play first fiddle; he did desire to sit in full lawn sleeves amongst the peers of
the realm; and he did desire, if the truth must be out, to be called 'My Lord' by the reverend
brethren.

His hopes, however, were they innocent or sinful, were not fated to be realised; and Dr Proudie
was consecrated Bishop of Barchester.

CHAPTER II

HIRAM'S HOSPITAL ACCORDING TO ACT OF PARLIAMENT

It is hardly necessary that I should here give to the public any lengthened biography of Mr
Harding, up to the period of the commencement of this tale. The public cannot have forgotten
how ill that sensitive gentleman bore the attack that was made upon him in the columns of the
Jupiter, with reference to the income which he received as warden of Hiram's Hospital, in the
city of Barchester. Nor can it be forgotten that a law-suit was instituted against him on the
matter of that charity by Mr John Bold, who afterwards married his, Mr Harding's, younger and
then only unmarried daughter. Under the pressure of these attacks, Mr Harding had resigned
his wardenship, though strongly recommended to abstain from doing so, both by his friends and
his lawyers. He did, however, resign it, and betook himself manfully to the duties of the small
parish of St. Cuthbert's, in the city, of which he was vicar, continuing also to perform those
of precentor of the cathedral, a situation of small emoluments which had hitherto been supposed
to be joined, as a matter of course, to the wardenship of the hospital above spoken of.

When he left the hospital from which he had been so ruthlessly driven, and settled himself
down in his own modest manner in the High Street of Barchester, he had not expected that others
would make more fuss about it than he was inclined to do himself; and the extent of his hope
was, that the movement might have been made in time to prevent any further paragraphs in the
Jupiter. His affairs, however, were not allowed to subside thus quietly, and people were quite
as much inclined to talk about the disinterested sacrifice he had made, as they had before
been to upbraid him for his cupidity.

The most remarkable thing that occurred, was the receipt of an autographed letter from the
Archbishop of Canterbury, in which the primate very warmly praised his conduct, and begged
to know what his intentions were for the future. Mr Harding replied that he intended to be
rector of St. Cuthbert's in Barchester; and so that matter dropped. Then the newspapers took
up his case, the Jupiter among the rest, and wafted his name in eulogistic strains through
every reading-room in the nation. It was discovered also, that he was the author of that great
musical work, Harding's Church Music,--and a new edition was spoken of, though, I believe,
never printed. It is, however, certain that the work was introduced into the Royal Chapel at
St James's, and that a long criticism appeared in the Musical Scrutator, declaring that in
no previous work of its kind had so much research been joined with such exalted musical ability,
and asserting that the name of Harding would henceforward be known wherever the Arts were cultivated,
or Religion valued.

This was high praise, and I will not deny that Mr Harding was gratified by such flattery; for
if Mr Harding was vain on any subject, it was on that of music. But here the matter rested.
The second edition, if printed, was never purchased; the copies which had been introduced into
the Royal Chapel disappeared again, and were laid by in peace, with a load of similar literature.
Mr Towers, of the Jupiter, and his brethren occupied themselves with other names, and the underlying
fame promised to our friend was clearly intended to be posthumous.

Mr Harding had spent much of his time with his friend the bishop, much with his daughter Mrs
Bold, now, alas, a widow; and had almost daily visited the wretched remnants of his former
subjects, the few surviving bedesmen now left at Hiram's Hospital. Six of them were still living.
The number, according to old Hiram's will, should always have been twelve. But after the abdication
of their warden, the bishop had appointed no successor to him, and it appeared as though the
hospital at Barchester would fall into abeyance, unless the powers that be should take some
steps towards putting it once more into working order.

During the past five years the powers that be had not overlooked Barchester Hospital, and sundry
political doctors had taken the matter in hand. Shortly after Mr Harding's resignation, the
Jupiter had very clearly shown what ought to be done. In about half a column it had distributed
the income, rebuilt the building, put an end to all bickerings, regenerated kindly feeling,
provided for Mr Harding, and placed the whole thing on a footing which could not but be satisfactory
to the city and Bishop of Barchester, and to the nation at large. The wisdom of this scheme
was testified by the number of letters which "Common Sense", "Veritas", and "One that loves
fair play," sent to the Jupiter, all expressing admiration and amplifying on the details given.
It is singular enough that no adverse letter appeared at all, and, therefore, none of course
was written.

But Cassandra was not believed, and even the wisdom of the Jupiter sometimes falls on deaf
ears. Though other plans did not put themselves forward in the columns of the Jupiter, reformers
of church charities were not slack to make known in various places their different nostrums
for setting Hiram's Hospital on its feet again. A learned bishop took occasion, in the Upper
House, to allude to the matter, intimating that he had communicated on the subject with his
right reverend brother of Barchester. The radical member for Staleybridge had suggested that
the funds should be alienated for the education of the agricultural poor of the country, and
he amused the House by some anecdotes touching the superstition and habits of the agriculturists
in question. A political pamphleteer had produced a few dozen pages, which he called 'Who are
Hiram's heirs?' intending to give an infallible rule for the governance of such establishments;
and, at last, a member of the government promised that in the next session a short bill should
be introduced for regulating the affairs of Barchester, and other kindred concerns.

The next session came, and, contrary to custom, the bill came also. Men's minds were then intent
on other things. The first threatenings of a huge war hung heavily over the nation, and the
question as to Hiram's heirs did not appear to interest very many people either in or out of
the House. The bill, however, was read and reread, and in some undistinguished manner passed
through its eleven stages without appeal or dissent. What would John Hiram have said in the
matter, could he have predicted that some forty-five gentlemen would take on themselves to
make a law altering the whole purport of the will, without in the least knowing at the moment
of their making it, what it was that they were doing? It is however to be hoped that the under
secretary for the Home Office knew, for to him had the matter been confided.

The bill, however, did pass, and at the time at which this history is supposed to commence,
it had been ordained that there should be, as heretofore, twelve old men in Barchester Hospital,
each with 1s 4d a day; that there should also be twelve old women, each with 1s 2d a day; that
there should be a matron with a house and L 70 a year; a steward with L 150 a year, who should
have the spiritual guidance of that appertaining to the male sex. The bishop, dean, and warden,
were, as formerly, to appoint in turn the recipients of the charity, and the bishop was to
appoint the officers. There was nothing said as to the wardenship being held by the precentor
of the cathedral, nor a word as to Mr Harding's right to the situation.

It was not, however, till some months after the death of the old bishop, and almost immediately
consequent on the installation of his successor, that notice was given that the reform was
about to be carried out. The new law and the new bishop were among the earliest works of a
new ministry, or rather of a ministry who, having for a while given place to their opponents,
had then returned to power; and the death of Dr Grantly occurred, as we have seen, exactly
at the period of change.

Poor Eleanor Bold! How well does that widow's cap become her, and the solemn gravity with which
she devotes to her new duties. Poor Eleanor!

Poor Eleanor! I cannot say that with me John Bold was ever a favourite. I never thought him
worthy of the wife he had won. But in her estimation he was most worthy. Hers was one of those
feminine hearts which cling to a husband, not with idolatry, for worship can admit of no defect
in its idol, but with the perfect tenacity of ivy. As the parasite plant will follow even the
defects of the trunk which it embraces, so did Eleanor cling to and love the very faults of
her husband.

She had once declared that whatever her father did should in her eyes be right. She then transferred
her allegiance, and became ever ready to defend the worst failings of her lord and master.

And John Bold was a man to be loved by a woman; he was himself affectionate, he was confiding
and manly; and that arrogance of thought, unsustained by first-rate abilities, that attempt
at being better than his neighbours which jarred so painfully on the feelings of his acquaintances,
did not injure him in the estimation of his wife.

Could she even have admitted that he had a fault, his early death would have blotted out the
memory of it. She wept as for the loss of the most perfect treasure with which mortal woman
had ever been endowed; for weeks after he was gone the idea of future happiness in this world
was hateful to her; consolation, as it is called, was insupportable, and tears and sleep were
her only relief.

But God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb. She knew that she had within her the living source
of other cares. She knew that there was to be created for her another subject of weal or woe,
of unutterable joy or despairing sorrow, as God in his mercy might vouchsafe to her. At first
this did not augment her grief! To be the mother of a poor infant, orphaned before it was born,
brought forth to the sorrows of an ever desolate hearth, nurtured amidst tears and wailing,
and then turned adrift into the world without the aid of a father's care! There was at first
no joy in this.

By degrees, however, her heart became anxious for another object, and, before its birth, the
stranger was expected with all the eagerness of a longing mother. Just eight months after the
father's death a second John Bold was born, and if the worship of one creature can be innocent
in another, let us hope that the adoration offered over the cradle of the fatherless infant
may not be imputed as sin.

It will not be worth our while to define the character of the child, or to point out in how
far the faults of the father were redeemed within that little breast by the virtues of the
mother. The baby, as a baby, was all that was delightful, and I cannot foresee that it will
be necessary for us to inquire into the facts of his after life. Our present business at Barchester
will not occupy us above a year or two at the furthest, and I will leave it to some other pen
to produce, if necessary, the biography of John Bold the Younger.

But, as a baby, this baby was all that could be desired. This fact no one attempted to deny.
'Is he not delightful?' she would say to her father, looking into his face from her knees,
he lustrous eyes overflowing with soft tears, her young face encircled by her close widow's
cap and her hands on each side of the cradle in which her treasure was sleeping. The grandfather
would gladly admit that the treasure was delightful, and the uncle archdeacon himself would
agree, and Mrs Grantly, Eleanor's sister, would re-echo the word with true sisterly energy;
and Mary Bold--but Mary Bold was a second worshipper at the same shrine.

The baby was really delightful; he took his food with a will, struck out his toes merrily whenever
his legs were uncovered, and did not have fits. These are supposed to be the strongest points
of baby perfection, and in all these our baby excelled.

And in this the widow's deep grief was softened, and a sweet balm was poured into the wound
which she had thought nothing but death could heal. How much kinder is God to us than we are
willing to be to ourselves! At the loss of every dear face, at the last going of every well
beloved one, we all doom ourselves to an eternity of sorrow, and look to waste ourselves away
in an ever-running fountain of tears. How seldom does such grief endure! How blessed is the
goodness which forbids it to do so! 'Let me ever remember my living friends, but forget them
as soon as they are dead,' was the prayer of a wise man who understood the mercy of God. Few
perhaps would have the courage to express such a wish, and yet to do so would only be to ask
for that release from sorrow, which a kind Creator almost always extends to us.

I would not, however, have it imagined that Mrs Bold forgot her husband. She really thought
of him with all conjugal love, and enshrined his memory in the innermost centre of her heart.
But yet she was happy in her baby. It was so sweet to press the living toy to her breast, and
feel that a human being existed who did owe, and was to owe everything to her; whose daily
food was drawn from herself; whose little wants could all be satisfied by her; whose infant
tongue would make his first effort in calling her by the sweetest name a woman can hear. And
so Eleanor's bosom became tranquil, and she set about her new duties eagerly and gratefully.

As regards the concerns of the world, John Bold had left his widow in prosperous circumstances.
He had bequeathed to her all that he possessed, and that comprised an income much exceeding
what she or her friends thought necessary for her. It amounted to nearly a thousand a year;
and when she reflected on its extent, her dearest hope was to hand it over, not only unimpaired,
but increased, to her husband's son, to her own darling, to the little man who now lay sleeping
on her knee, happily ignorant of the cares which were to be accumulated in his behalf.

When John Bold died, she earnestly implored her father to come and live with her, but this
Mr Harding declined, though for some weeks he remained with her as a visitor. He could not
be prevailed upon to forego the possession of some small house of his own, and so remained
in the lodgings he had first selected over a chemist's shop in the High Street at Barchester.

CHAPTER III

DR AND MRS PROUDIE

This narrative is supposed to commence immediately after the installation of Dr Proudie. I
will not describe the ceremony, as I do not precisely understand its nature. I am ignorant
whether a bishop be chaired like a member of parliament, or carried in a gilt coach like a
lord mayor, or sworn in like a justice of the peace, or introduced like a peer to the upper
house, or led between two brethren like a knight of the garter; but I do know that every thing
was properly done, and that nothing fit or becoming to a young bishop was omitted on the occasion.

Dr Proudie was not the man to allow anything to be omitted that might be becoming to his new
dignity. He understood well the value of forms, and knew that the due observations of rank
could not be maintained unless the exterior trappings belonging to it were held in proper esteem.
He was a man born to move in high circles; at least so he thought himself and circumstances
had certainly sustained him in this view. He was the nephew of a Irish baron by his mother's
side, and his wife was the niece of a Scottish earl. He had for years held some clerical office
appertaining to courtly matters, which had enabled him to live in London, and to entrust his
parish to his curate. He had been a preacher to the royal beefeaters, curator of theological
manuscripts in the Ecclesiastical Courts, chaplain of the Queen's Yeomanry Guard, and almoner
to his Royal Highness the Prince of Rappe-Blankenburg.

His residence in the metropolis, rendered necessary by the duties entrusted to him, his high
connections, and the peculiar talents and nature of the man, recommended him to persons in
power; and Dr Proudie became known as a useful and rising clergyman.

Some few years since, even within the memory of many who are not yet willing to call themselves
old, a liberal clergyman was a person not frequently to be met. Sydney Smith was such, and
was looked on as a little better than an infidel; a few others also might be named, but they
were 'rarae aves', and were regarded with doubt and distrust by their brethren. No man was
so surely a tory as a country rector--nowhere were the powers that be so cherished as at Oxford.

When, however, Dr Whately was made an archbishop, and Dr Hampden some years afterwards regius
professor, many wise divines saw that a change was taking place in men's minds, and that more
liberal ideas would henceforward be suitable to the priests as well as to the laity. Clergymen
began to be heard of who had ceased to anathematise papists on the one hand, or vilify dissenters
on the other. It appeared clear that high church principles, as they are called, were no longer
to be the surest claims to promotion with at any rate one section of statesmen, and Dr Proudie
was one among those who early in life adapted himself to the views held by the whigs on most
theological and religious subjects. He bore with the idolatry of Rome, tolerated even the infidelity
of Socinianism, and was hand and glove with the Presbyterian Synods of Scotland and Ulster.

Such a man at such a time was found to be useful, and Dr Proudie's name began to appear in
the newspapers. He was made one of a commission who went over to Ireland to arrange matters
preparative to the working of the national board; he became honorary secretary to another commission
nominated to inquire into the revenues of cathedral chapters; and had had something to do with
both the regium donum and the Maynooth Grant.

It must not be on this account be taken as proved that Dr Proudie was a man of great mental
powers, or even of much capacity for business, for such qualities had not been required in
him. In the arrangement of those church reforms with which he was connected, the ideas and
original conception of the work to be done were generally furnished by the liberal statesmen
of the day, and the labour of the details was borne by officials of a lower rank. It was, however,
thought expedient that the name of some clergyman should appear in such matters, and as Dr
Proudie had become known as a tolerating divine, great use of this sort was made of his name.
If he did not do much active good, he never did any harm; he was amenable to those who were
really in authority, and at the sittings of the various boards to which he belonged maintained
a kind of dignity which had its value.

