I am delighted by the intelligence, but regret that I have nothing but a few flower-seeds,
a specimen of Indian workmanship, and a few butterflies to send you--the latter are for Jane.
I hope all will not share the fate of the last I sent. Sarah wrote me word, when they came
to look for the green moth I had enclosed in a little box, nothing of his earthly remains was
visible beyond a little dust and some pink feet. I have, with some difficulty, been able to
procure another and finer specimen; and, for fear it should meet with a similar annihilation,
I will at least preserve the memory of its beauties, and give you a description of it.

It is just five inches from wing to wing; the body the thickness of my little finger, snow-white,
covered with long silken hair; the legs bright red, so are the antennae, which are toothed
like a comb on either side, shorter than those of butterflies and elegantly curled; the wings,
both upper and under, are of the most exquisite pale tint of green, fringed at the edges with
golden colour; each wing has a small shaded crescent of pale blue, deep red, and orange; the
blue forming the centre, like a half-closed eye; the lower wings elongated in deep scollop,
so as to form two long tails, like those of the swallow-tail butterfly, only a full inch in
length and deeply fringed; on the whole this moth is the most exquisite creature I have ever seen.

We have a variety of the peacock butterfly, that is very rich, with innumerable eyes on the
wings. The yellow swallow-tail is also very common, and the black and blue admiral, and the
red, white, and black admiral, with many other beautiful varieties that I cannot describe.
The largest butterfly I have yet seen is a gay vermilion, marked with jet black lines that
form an elegant black lace pattern over its wide wings.

Then for dragon-flies, we have them of every size, shape, and colour. I was particularly charmed
by a pair of superb blue ones that I used to see this summer in my walk to visit my sister.
They were as large as butterflies, with black gauze wings; on each pair was marked a crescent
of the brightest azure blue, shaded with scarlet; the bodies of these beautiful creatures were
also blue. I have seen them scarlet and black, yellow and black, copper-coloured, green, and
brown; the latter are great enemies to the mosquitoes and other small insects, and may be seen
in vast numbers flitting around in all directions of an evening in search of prey.

The fire-flies must not be forgotten, for of all others they are the most remarkable; their
appearance generally precedes rain; they are often seen after dark, on mild damp evenings,
sporting among the cedars at the edge of the wood, and especially near swamps, when the air
is illuminated with their brilliant dancing light. Sometimes they may be seen in groups, glancing
like falling stars in mid-air, or descending so low as to enter your dwelling and flit about
among the draperies of your bed or window curtains; the light they emit is more brilliant than
that of the glowworm; but it is produced in the same manner from the under part of the body.
The glowworm is also frequently seen, even as late as September, on mild, warm, dewy nights.

We have abundance of large and small beetles, some most splendid: green and gold, rose-colour,
red and black, yellow and black; some quite black, formidably large, with wide branching horns.
Wasps are not so troublesome as in England, but I suppose it is because we cannot offer such
temptations as our home gardens hold out to these ravenous insects.

One of our choppers brought me the other day what he called a hornet's nest; it was certainly
too small and delicate a piece of workmanship for so large an insect; and I rather conjecture
that it belonged to the beautiful black and gold insect called the wasp-fly, but of this I
am not certain. The nest was about the size and shape of a turkey's egg, and was composed of
six paper cups inserted one within the other, each lessening till the innermost of all appeared
not larger than a pigeon's egg. On looking carefully within the orifice of the last cup, a
small comb, containing twelve cells, of the most exquisite neatness, might be perceived, if
anything, superior in regularity to the cells in the comb of the domestic bee, one of which
was at least equal to three of these. The substance that composed the cups was of a fine silver
grey silken texture, as fine as the finest India silk paper, and extremely brittle; when slightly
wetted it became glutinous, and adhered a little to the finger; the whole was carefully fixed
to a stick: I have seen one since fastened to a rough rail. I could not but admire the instinctive
care displayed in the formation of this exquisite piece of insect architecture to guard the
embryo animal from injury, either from the voracity of birds or the effect of rain, which could
scarcely find entrance in the interior.

I had carefully, as I thought, preserved my treasure, by putting it in one of my drawers, but
a wicked little thief of a mouse found it out and tore it to pieces for the sake of the drops
of honey contained in one or two of the cells. I was much vexed, as I purposed sending it by
some favourable opportunity to a dear friend living in Gloucester Place, who took great delight
in natural curiosities, and once showed me a nest of similar form to this, that had been found
in a bee-hive; the material was much coarser, and, if I remember right, had but two cases instead
of six.

I have always felt a great desire to see the nest of a humming-bird, but hitherto have been
disappointed. This summer I had some beds of mignionette and other flowers, with some most
splendid major convolvuluses or "morning gloves," as the Americans call them; these lovely
flowers tempted the hummingbirds to visit my garden, and I had the pleasure of seeing a pair
of those beautiful creatures, but their flight is so peculiar that it hardly gives you a perfect
sight of their colours; their motion when on the wing resembles the whirl of a spinning-wheel,
and the sound they make is like the hum of a wheel at work; I shall plant flowers to entice
them to build near us.

I sometimes fear you will grow weary of my long dull letters; my only resources are domestic
details and the natural history of the country, which I give whenever I think the subject has
novelty to recommend it to your attention. Possibly I may sometimes disappoint you by details
that appear to place the state of the emigrant in an unfavourable light; I merely give facts
as I have seen, or heard them stated. I could give you many flourishing accounts of settlers
in this country; I could also reverse the picture, and you would come to the conclusion that
there are many arguments to be used both for and against emigration. Now, the greatest argument,
and that which has the most weight, is NECESSITY, and this will always turn the scale in the
favour of emigration; and that same imperative dame Necessity tells me it is necessary for
me to draw my letter to a conclusion.

Farewell, ever faithfully and affectionately, your attached sister.

November the 28th, 1834.

You will have been surprised, and possibly distressed, by my long silence of several months,
but when I tell you it has been occasioned by sickness, you will cease to wonder that I did
not write.

My dear husband, my servant, the poor babe, and myself, were all at one time confined to our
beds with ague. You know how severe my sufferings always were at home with intermittents, and
need not marvel if they were no less great in a country where lake-fevers and all kinds of
intermittent fevers abound.

Few persons escape the second year without being afflicted with this weakening complaint; the
mode of treatment is repeated doses of calomel, with castor-oil or salts, and is followed up
by quinine. Those persons who do not choose to employ medical advice on the subject, dose themselves
with ginger-tea, strong infusion of hyson, or any other powerful green tea, pepper, and whiskey,
with many other remedies that have the sanction of custom or quackery.

I will not dwell on this uncomfortable period, further than to tell you that we considered
the complaint to have had its origin in a malaria, arising from a cellar below the kitchen.
When the snow melted, this cellar became half full of water, either from the moisture draining
through the spongy earth, or from the rising of a spring beneath the house; be it as it may,
the heat of the cooking and Franklin stoves in the kitchen and parlour, caused a fermentation
to take place in the stagnant fluid before it could be emptied; the effluvia arising from this
mass of putrifying water affected us all. The female servant, who was the most exposed to its
baneful influence, was the first of our household that fell sick, after which, we each in turn
became unable to assist each other. I think I suffer an additional portion of the malady from
seeing the sufferings of my dear husband and my beloved child.

I lost the ague in a fortnight's time,--thanks to calomel and quinine; so did my babe and his
nurse: it has, however, hung on my husband during the whole of the summer, and thrown a damp
upon his exertions and gloom upon his spirits. This is the certain effect of ague, it causes
the same sort of depression on the spirits as a nervous fever. My dear child has not been well
ever since he had the ague, and looks very pale and spiritless.

We should have been in a most miserable condition, being unable to procure a female servant,
a nurse, or any one to attend upon us, and totally unable to help ourselves; but for the prompt
assistance of Mary on one side, and Susannah on the other, I know not what would have become
of us in our sore trouble.

This summer has been excessively hot and dry; the waters in the lakes and rivers being lower
than they had been known for many years; scarcely a drop of rain fell for several weeks. This
extreme drought rendered the potatoe-crop a decided failure. Our Indian-corn was very fine;
so were the pumpkins. We had some fine vegetables in the garden, especially the peas and melons;
the latter were very large and fine. The cultivation of the melon is very simple: you first
draw the surrounding earth together with a broad hoe into a heap; the middle of this heap is
then slightly hollowed out, so as to form a basin, the mould being raised round the edges;
into this hollow you insert several melon-seeds, and leave the rest to the summer heat; if
you water the plants from time to time, it is well for them; the soil should be fine black
mould; and if your hills are inclining to a hollow part of your ground, so as to retain the
moisture, so much the finer will be your fruit. It is the opinion of practical persons who
have bought wisdom by some years' experience of the country, that in laying out and planting
a garden, the beds should not be raised, as is the usual custom; and give us a reason, that
the sun having such great power draws the moisture more readily from the earth where the beds
are elevated above the level, and, in consequence of the dryness of the ground, the plants
wither away.

As there appears some truth in the remark, I am inclined to adopt the plan.

Vegetables are in general fine, and come quickly to maturity, considering the lateness of the
season in which they are usually put into the ground. Peas are always fine, especially the
marrowfats, which are sometimes grown in the fields, on cleared lands that are under the plough.
We have a great variety of beans, all of the French or kidney kind; there is a very prolific
white runner, of which I send you some of the seed: the method of planting them is to raise
a small hillock of mould by drawing the earth up with the hoe; flatten this, or rather hollow
it a little in the middle, and drop in four or five seeds round the edges; as soon as the bean
puts forth its runners insert a pole of five or six feet in the centre of the hill; the plants
will all meet and twine up it, bearing a profusion of pods, which are cut and foiled as the
scarlet-runners, or else, in their dry or ripe state, stewed and eaten with salt meat; this,
I believe, is the more usual way of cooking them. The early bush-bean is a dwarf, with bright
yellow seed.

Lettuces are very fine, and may be cultivated easily, and very early, by transplanting the
seedlings that appear as soon as the ground is free from snow. Cabbages and savoys, and all
sorts of roots, keep during the winter in the cellars or root-houses; but to the vile custom
of keeping green vegetables in the shallow, moist cellars below the kitchens, much of the sickness
that attacks settlers under the various forms of agues, intermittent, remittent, and lake-fevers,
may be traced.

Many, of the lower class especially, are not sufficiently careful in clearing these cellars
from the decaying portions of vegetable matter, which are often suffered to accumulate from
year to year to infect the air of the dwelling. Where the house is small, and the family numerous,
and consequently exposed to its influence by night, the baneful consequences may be readily
imagined. "Do not tell me of lakes and swamps as the cause of fevers and agues; look to your
cellars," was the observation of a blunt but experienced Yankee doctor. I verily believe it
was the cellar that was the cause of sickness in our house all the spring and summer.

A root-house is indispensably necessary for the comfort of a settler's family; if well constructed,
with double log-walls, and the roof secured from the soaking in of the rain or melting snows,
it preserves vegetables, meat, and milk excellently. You will ask if the use be so great, and
the comfort so essential, why does not every settler build one?

Now, dear mamma, this is exactly what every new comer says; but he has to learn the difficulty
there is at first of getting these matters accomplished, unless, indeed, he have (which is
not often the case) the command of plenty of ready money, and can afford to employ extra workmen.
Labour is so expensive, and the working seasons so short, that many useful and convenient buildings
are left to a future time; and a cellar, which one man can excavate in two days, if he work
well, is made to answer the purpose, till the season of leisure arrives, or necessity obliges
the root-house to be made. We are ourselves proof of this very sort of unwilling procrastination;
but the logs are now cut for the root-house, and we shall have one early in the spring. I would,
however, recommend any one that could possibly do so at first, to build a root- house without
delay, and also to have a well dug; the springs lying very few feet below the surface renders
this neither laborious or very expensive. The creeks will often fail in very dry weather, and
the lake and river-waters grow warm and distasteful during the spring and summer. The spring-waters
are generally cold and pure, even in the hottest weather, and delightfully refreshing.

Our winter seems now fairly setting in: the snow has twice fallen, and as often disappeared,
since the middle of October; but now the ground is again hardening into stone; the keen north-west
wind is abroad; and every outward object looks cold and wintry. The dark line of pines that
bound the opposite side of the lake is already hoary and heavy with snow, while the half-frozen
lake has a deep leaden tint, which is only varied in shade by the masses of ice which shoot
out in long points, forming mimic bays and peninsulas. The middle of the stream, where the
current is strongest, is not yet frozen over, but runs darkly along like a river between its
frozen banks. In some parts where the banks are steep and overhung with roots and shrubs, the
fallen snow and water take the most fantastic forms.

I have stood of a bright winter day looking with infinite delight on the beautiful mimic waterfalls
congealed into solid ice along the bank of the river; and by the mill-dam, from contemplating
these petty frolics of Father Frost, I have been led to picture to myself the sublime scenery
of the arctic regions.

In spite of its length and extreme severity, I do like the Canadian winter: it is decidedly
the healthiest season of the year; and it is no small enjoyment to be exempted from the torments
of the insect tribes, that are certainly great drawbacks to your comfort in the warmer months.

We have just received your last packet;--a thousand thanks for the contents. We are all delighted
with your useful presents, especially the warm shawls and merinos. My little James looks extremely
well in his new frock and cloak; they will keep him very warm this cold weather: he kissed
the pretty fur-lined slippers you sent me, and said, "Pussy, pussy." By the way, we have a
fine cat called Nora Crena, the parting gift of our friend ------, who left her as a keepsake
for my boy. Jamie dotes upon her; and I do assure you I regard her almost as a second Whittington's
cat: neither mouse nor chitmunk has dared intrude within our log-walls since she made her appearance;
the very crickets, that used to distract us with their chirping from morning till night, have
forsaken their old haunts. Besides the crickets, which often swarm so as to become intolerable
nuisances, destroying your clothes and woollens, we are pestered by large black ants, that
gallop about, eating up sugar preserves, cakes, anything nice they can gain access to; these
insects are three times the size of the black ants of Britain, and have a most voracious appetite:
when they find no better prey they kill each other, and that with the fierceness and subtilty
of the spider. They appear less sociable in their habits than other ants; though, from the
numbers that invade your dwellings, I should think they formed a community like the rest of
their species.

The first year's residence in a new log-house you are disturbed by a continual creaking sound
which grates upon the ears exceedingly, till you become accustomed to it: this is produced
by an insect commonly called a "sawyer." This is the larvae of some fly that deposits its eggs
in the bark of the pine-trees. The animal in its immature state is of a whitish colour, the
body composed of eleven rings; the head armed with a pair of short, hard pincers: the skin
of this creature is so rough that on passing your finger over it, it reminds you of a rasp,
yet to the eye it is perfectly smooth. You would be surprised at the heap of fine saw- dust
that is to be seen below the hole they have been working in all night. These sawyers form a
fine feast for the woodpeckers, and jointly they assist in promoting the rapid decomposition
of the gigantic forest- trees, that would otherwise encumber the earth from age to age. How
infinite is that Wisdom that rules the natural world! How often do we see great events brought
about by seemingly insignificant agents! Yet are they all servants of the Most High, working
his will, and fulfilling his behests. One great want which has been sensibly felt in this distant
settlement, I mean the want of public worship on the Sabbath-day, promises to be speedily remedied.
A subscription is about to be opened among the settlers of this and part of the adjacent township
for the erection of a small building, which may answer the purpose of church and school-house;
also for the means of paying a minister for stated seasons of attendance.

------ has allowed his parlour to be used as a temporary church, and service has been several
times performed by a highly respectable young Scotch clergyman; and I can assure you we have
a considerable congregation, considering how scattered the inhabitants are, and that the emigrants
consist of catholics and dissenters, as well as episcopalians.

These distinctions, however, are not carried to such lengths in this country as at home; especially
where the want of religious observances has been sensibly felt. The word of God appears to
be listened to with gladness. May a blessing attend those that in spirit and in truth would
restore again to us the public duties of the Sabbath, which, left to our own guidance, we are
but too much inclined to neglect.

Farewell. First, sugar-making on a larger scale than our first attempt was, and since that
we had workmen making considerable addition to our house; we have built a large and convenient
kitchen, taking the former one for a bedroom; the root-house and dairy are nearly completed.
We have a well of excellent water close beside the door, and a fine frame-barn was finished
this week, which includes a good granary and stable, with a place for my poultry, in which
I take great delight.

Besides a fine brood of fowls, the produce of two hens and a cock, or rooster, as the Yankees
term that bird, I have some ducks, and am to have turkeys and geese this summer. I lost several
of my best fowls, not by the hawk but a horrid beast of the same nature as our polecat, called
here a scunck; it is far more destructive in its nature than either fox or the hawk, for he
comes like a thief in the night and invades the perch, leaving headless mementos of his barbarity
and blood-thirsty propensities.

We are having the garden, which hitherto has been nothing but a square enclosure for vegetables,
laid out in a prettier form; two half circular wings sweep off from the entrance to each side
of the house; the fence is a sort of rude basket or hurdle-work, such as you see at home, called
by the country folk wattled fence: this forms a much more picturesque fence than those usually
put up of split timber.

Along this little enclosure I have begun planting a sort of flowery hedge with some of the
native shrubs that abound in our woods and lake- shores.

Among those already introduced are two species of shrubby honeysuckle, white and rose-blossomed:
these are called by the American botanists quilostium.

Then I have the white Spiroeafrutex, which grows profusely on the lake-shore; the Canadian
wild rose; the red flowering raspberry (rubus spectabilis), leather-wood (dircas), called American
mezereon, or moose-wood; this is a very pretty, and at the same time useful shrub, the bark
being used by farmers as a substitute for cord in tying sacks, &c.; the Indians sew their birch-bark
baskets with it occasionally.

Wild gooseberry, red and black currants, apple-trees, with here and there a standard hawthorn,
the native tree bearing nice red fruit I named before, are all I have as yet been able to introduce.

The stoup is up, and I have just planted hops at the base of the pillars. I have got two bearing
shoots of a purple wild grape from the island near us, which I long to see in fruit.

My husband is in good spirits; our darling boy is well, and runs about everywhere. We enjoy
a pleasant and friendly society, which has increased so much within the last two years that
we can hardly regret our absence from the more populous town.

