 You want grasp
and understand everything with your pathetic mind. The mystery, the mystery, the wonder, the magic
that lies in the blood - you sure you lost your mind. So shut up, I of such Things to you.

But it does not help me with my almost one hundred years. Does it what you will, I do what I must.
"

"Well," Graf said Teja yielding, "the blame on your heads.

But if this last Amali then ... "-

"Then the followers of his oath-free."

"Maybe," concluded Witichis, "it is fortunate that your oath saves
us the choice for certainly we do not want a ruler that could not
recognize you.

                             Let us go then, the people to calm and we have this king - as long
as he is to wear.

"

"But not an hour longer," said Teja and went out in anger.

CHAPTER II.

On the same day and still have Theodahad Gothelindis with the old
crown of the Gothic kings crowned.

A rich banquet, attended by all the Roman and Gothic nobles of the court and the city animate
the vast palace of Theodoric and the usually quiet garden that we as the arena of Athalaric and
Camilla's learned about love. Until late into the night lasted the
noisy Banquet.

The new king, no friend of the cup and barbaric pleasures hard, had early withdrawn.

Gothelindis however, basked in the glow of their young like glory, proudly emblazoned them
on their dark purple seat, the golden crown of spikes in the hair.

She seemed very sensitive to the loud cheers that celebrated their names and their husbands.
And yet her heart was here only one pleasure: the idea that this joy must penetrate down to the
royal vault, where Amalaswintha, the hated, defeated enemy, the tombs of her son mourning.

Among
the crowd of those people who are always happy when they sit in full-cups but was also so much
more serious face to be noted that many Romans, on the empty throne
up there the Emperor would have preferred to see: many a Goth, who
in the dangerous position of the Rich as a king Theodahad could not
worship without worry.

The latter was one Witichis, whose ideas are not under the roof pillars
decorated wreath the pump room seemed to dwell. Prejudice was the
golden bowl before him and the loud Hildebad acclamation, who sat
opposite him, he hardly slept. Finally - have long been lit in the
hall the lights in the sky and the stars - he got up and went out
into the dark green of the garden.

He slowly walked through the Taxusgänge
there: his eyes were twinkling of the stars. His Heart was at home
with his wife, with his boys, he not seen for months.                     38

  Bone-writing                                                      57

  "With hand upraised in supplication, yielded to the impulse
  to flee" Also saw another phenomenon we have
now occurred frequently on the heath, which apparently did earlier too, but by no one observed, but
now that many thousands and thousands of views every day went to heaven, they were regarded
as unglueckweissagender Spooky: namely, a forest and mountain range, beyond Located on the heath,
and visible from it was not quite, now often very clearly the sky that saw him not only all,
but that the individual back and top call and was able to show - and when it was called in the
village, it was to see again, so went Everything out, and looked at it and it was sometimes waiting
for hours until it swayed to moved in lengths and width strips are cut in pieces, and disappeared
with one.

The heath lark was silent, but it drowned out the whole day, and warm in the thaulosen Eternal lonely
nights and sharpening the chirping of locusts over the heath, and the cry of anguish the lapwing.
The Nimble little stream was only like a thin silk thread about the gray Total area, and the corn
and barley in the village were pale green and unreal in the air, [95] and told in the same
breath with careless noise their inner emptiness. The Baumfruechte were small and ill-ripe on the
ground, the leaves were dusty and flowers was nothing on the lawn
that stretched himself as rustling paper between the fields.

It was the very time. They pleaded with fervor to the sealed vault of heaven. Well again some clouds
mountain stood for days in the southern sky, and yet never became a Sun loose material thing
like a cloud, viewed by so many eyes, looked at with such longing, than here - but when it was
evening, the clouds glowed purple mountain beautiful [96] melted,
loosens in a loud beautiful roses scattered on the firmament and disappeared
- and the millions of stars occupied the friendly skies.

So the Friday before Pentecost had come, and the soft blue air had
become a bare rock. Most of these were persons who had resided for a time at least not far from the
starting point, but not all were natives of that section, some having emigrated from Indiana,
Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia.

We were outfitted with eight wagons, about thirty yoke of oxen, fifty head of extra steers
and cows, and ten or twelve saddle ponies and mules.

The vehicles were light, well-built farm wagons, arranged and fitted for economy of space and
weight. Most of the wagons were without brakes, seats or springs. The axles were of wood, which,
in case of their breaking, could be repaired en route. Corbulo how did you start it? " Joyful
emotion and tears welled up in her eyes. - "To the bill, torture me all the devils and lemurs,
when I started this. But since Cappadox brings his club foot, the So is not jinxed. Speech,
you Cyclops what happened here? "

The huge Cappadox, a broad-shouldered slave hobbled, to offer ungeschlachtem smile and told after
many questions and interruptions of amazement a mysterious history. Three weeks ago about a
few days after Cappadox was sent to the estate, it's manage master, who was away for some time
in the marble quarries of Luna came from Tifernum forth a noble Roman with a retinue of slaves
and laborers and packed with high- Lorries. He asked if this was the estate, which of the Steinmetz
Corbulo of Perusia purchased for the widow of Boethius. As if that was in the affirmative, he
gave himself the Hortulanus Princeps recognize that as superintendent of the gardens at Ravenna.
An old friend of the Boëthius, the fear of the Gothic tyrants dare not mention his name to hope,
secretly accept the persecuted and had given him the mandate to stay the same to decorate with all
the resources of his art and beautification. The slave should the proposed Surprise and not spoil
half with kindness, partly by force was considered the astonished Cappadox Villa on the set. The
superintendent, however, immediately drew up his plan and his workers were immediately set
to work.

Many neighboring properties were bought at high prices and then raised to a demolition and
Construction, a vegetable and the Graben, a hammering and pounding, a cleaning and painting,
that the Cappadox good hearing and vision passed. Did he ask to talk and bargain, he laughed Workers
in the face. Did he make it, then waved the superintendent and a half-dozen Fists held him.
"And," - concluded the narrator - "so we went up yesterday morning.

Since they were finished and departed.

At first I was uneasy and afraid, as I grow the costly glories from the soil saw. I thought
at the end when master Corbulo to pay for it, then hurt at my Back! And I wanted to log's.
But they would not let me and obenein knew I thee away from home. And as I felt a lot of money
virtually the sense of the director and as the threw the gold pieces to get as children with
pebbles, behold, calm down gradually my mind and I let everything go as it went. Now, O Lord,
I know: you I'll still be set in the block and beat. With the vine, or even by Scorpio. You
can do it. For why? you are the master and the servant Cappadox. But just, Lord, it would be
difficult! all saints and all the gods!

For thou hast set over a Few coal fields and behold, they are a garden become emperor under
my hand. "

Kamilla was long since gone and it hatched before the slave to the end. With joy beating heart she
hurried through the garden, the pavilions, which house as she floated on Wings, you could hardly
follow the nimble Daphnidion. An exclamation of surprise of the joyful Terror drove the others,
as often as they round a corner of the road, a group of trees, turned again and then a picture was
from that garden of Ravenna before their delighted eyes. But when they came into the house and a
small room of the same just painted, equipped, decorated been found as of that room in the Imperial
Palace was where they lost the last days of childhood and dreamed of the first dreams of the girl, the
same images on the bastgeflochtnen curtains, the same vases and delicate citrus box and on the
same Schildpatttischchen their small petite favorite harp with the swan wings, there, overwhelmed
by so many memories and even more of a sense of gratitude to so tender friendship, she fell sobbing
into joyful sorrow on the soft carpet of Lectus together.

As soon as she could Daphnidion . Calm "It still gives noble heart,
nor friends to the house of Boethius," she cried again and again.

And they sent the deepest prayer of thanks to heaven. -

When the mother arrived the next day, she was taken by the scarcely less strange surprise.

She immediately wrote to Rome to Cethegus and asked which friend of
her husband in this well mysterious benefactor to be sought?

She was a quiet hope it to himself to think.

But the prefect shook his head in her post, and wrote her back: he knew no one, to remind him
that the tender-hearted manner. You may sharply each track note, which could lead to solving the puzzle.

It
should be soon enough reveal. -

Kamilla was not tired to roam the garden and always with his new similarities trusted role model
to discover. Often, these programs have taken her to the park and adjoining the Mountain forest.
She used to accompany the merry Daphnidion, the same youth and their faithful attachment quickly
made a confidant.

Repeats of this Patrona had noticed they had to steal after a forest spirit. Because very often
it is heard in the bushes and Knacke rustle in the grass behind or beside them. And yet nowhere
man or animal is seen. But Camilla laughed their superstition and forced her repeatedly into the green
shadows the elms and plane trees beyond.

One day, discovered the girl from the heat deeper and deeper into the cool of the forest fleeing,
a lively source of the abundant and clear dark porphyry rock drips.

But it sets no specific trickle trickled and had to painfully thirsty
individual silver drops catch.

"What a pity," exclaimed Camilla, "to the delicious wet! Since you had the Triton source shall
see in the Pinetum at Ravenna. How graceful the jet spewing from the inflated Jaws of the bronze
sea god and was collected in a large shell of brown marble, What a pity! "And they went on.

After several days, both came back on the job.

Daphnidion who progressed was, suddenly stopped crying loudly and pointed speechless the finger
at the source. The wood source was made up. gushed out of a bronze Triton head the beam in a delicate
shell of brown marble. Daphnidion, now firmly ghostly believing turned readily to escape: she
fled with her hands in front of the eyes, Forest spirits do not see
what was considered highly dangerous, to the house of the lady, according
to calling to follow her.

But Kamilla shot through the thought of the listener, which we recently
followed here, is certainly now in the area, to feast on our astonishment.

Sharp looked around her: a wild rose bush, the flowers of varying
branches fell to the ground.

She quickly walked to the thicket. And lo, it came out of the bushes with hunting bag and Spear against
a young hunter.

"I've discovered," he said in a low, timid voice, graceful in his shame.

But with a cry of terror went back Kamilla "Athalaric" - she faltered
- "the king"!

A whole sea flood of thoughts and emotions surged through her head
and heart, and half fainting they fell on the grass slope beside the
source.

The young king was in terror and delight speechless for a few seconds before the tender form
stretched out: thirsty called his burning Eye the beautiful features,
the noble form: volatile red shot like lightning quivering on his
pale face.

                            "Oh, she - she is my hot death" - he breathed at last on both hands
the throbbing heart oppressive - die "now, - to die with her."

As she moved her arm. This brought him back to his senses. He knelt down beside her and blew up
the cool water of the fountain on her temple. She opened her eyes, "Barbarian - murderer!" she
screamed shrilly, pushing back his hand, jumped up and ran away like
a deer visited happening.

Athalaric did not follow. "Barbarian - murderer," he breathed into the deepest pain to himself.
And he hid the burning forehead in his hands.

CHAPTER VI.

Kamilla was in such high excitement home that's not Daphnidion to take, had the Domna must have seen
the nymphs, or even the ancient forest god Picus itself.

But the girl threw herself in a wild movement in the arms of the terrified mother. The fight confused
feelings dissolved in a stream of hot tears, and she could only late, to give the anxious questions
Rusticianas answers and explanation.

In the deep soul of this child heaved a heavy rings.

It was the the court not to Ravenna maturing girls all noticed that the handsome, often pale
boy with a strange, dreamy look, the dark eyes rested on her that with reverence as he listened
to the tone of her voice. But never was this idea inside Pleasure her intended came to consciousness,
the Prince, shy and reserved, had eyes cast down, when they caught him on such a view and it
impartially questioningly: they were both at that time but almost more children. She did not
name, what was going on in Athalaric - as soon as he knew it himself - and it never had occurred
to her to think, why they lived happy in his presence, like the bold, the type of all other
playmates different flight of his thoughts or fantasies followed, also as silently next to the
silent in the evening light through the quiet gardens transformed, where he often torn from
the midst of his reveries, said, always thoughtful words to her,
whose poetry, the poetry of enthusiastic youth, they so fully understood
and appreciated.

In the delicate weaving of the budding tendency now suggested the disaster of her beloved over
all Father.

And not only gentle mourning for the murdered, passionate hatred for the killers took the soul
the passionate Roman. Boëthius had always been, even in the period of highest Favor at court,
a haughty looking down on the barbarism of the Goths, exhibits, and since his demise, of course,
Camilla was breathing the whole environment, the mother, the two revenge thirsty brothers,
friends of the house only hatred and contempt, not only against the bloody murderers and tyrants
Theodoric, no, against all the Goths and advance against daughter and Grandson of the king,
who seemed to share his guilt for not preventing the same.

So the girls Athalaric had not thought of almost everything. And when it was called or when,
what met her at times, his picture appeared in a dream before the soul, it all culminated ' their
hatred of the barbarians in the highest detestation against him. Perhaps precisely because the
most secret depths of her heart was trembling now a reluctant idea of ​​that tendency, they moved
to the beautiful prince. -

And now - now the miscreant who dared to take her unsuspecting heart with treacherous blow!

She
had, and they saw him walking out of the thicket, and they recognized him instantly detected that
it was he who, like the version of the source, the transformation
of the whole Villa created.

He, the hated enemy, the offspring of the cursed race, in which the blood her father stuck,
the king of the barbarians!

All the joy with which it these days Home and garden screened were burning, now glowing like ore on
her soul.

The mortal enemy their race, their gender, had dared to gift them
to enjoy too happy.

For him she had thanksgiving prayers sent to heaven.

He had dared to, their steps to To follow overhear their words, to
satisfy their slightest wishes - and in the background her soul was
more terrible than all this, the idea of ​​why he did that.

He loved them! The barbarian dared to show it to her. The tyrant of Italy, he dared to do
well hope that the daughter Boëthius -

Oh, it was too much! and painful sobs she buried her head in the pillow of her bed, to dull
sleep of exhaustion, fell down on them. Soon came the hasty summoned Prefect for the helpless women. Rusticiana
had followed her first feelings such as chamomile, immediately to the Villa and the hated around
the king to flee and hide her child beyond the Alps want. But the state Camilla had previously prevented
the uprising and as well as the Prefect entered the house, the flame of excitement seemed ahead
of his cold stare basket. He Rusticianen was alone in the garden: quiet and attentive he heard there,
the Leaning back against a Lorberstamm, his chin resting in his left hand, her passionate Narrative.

"And
now talking about," she concluded, "what should I do? How should I save my poor child? where they
bring? "

Cethegus opened his eyes, which he, as he used to strenuous meditation,
half closed had.

"Where Kamilla bring," he said. "On the court, to Ravenna."

Rusticiana started up: "What now is the toxic joke!"

But Cethegus sat up quickly.

"It is my earnest. Still - I hear.

No gracious gift, the fate that the Barbarians will spoil, can put in our way. You know how completely
I regent dominant.

But you do not know how powerless I am stubborn about those fanatics.

It is puzzling.

The sick boy is all over Gotenvolk the only one of me, see through and if not, but guess. And I do
not know if he fears me more hate or more. That would be pretty indifferent when the rogue I am not
very decisive and very successfully worked against.

His word, of course, weighs heavily on his mother.

Often more difficult than mine. And he is getting older, more mature, more dangerous. His powerful
spirit surpassed his years. He takes seriously Part in the deliberations
of the Regency.

Every time he speaks to me. He often wins.

Only Recently he has prevailed against me that the black bile Teja
command of the Gothic Troops in Rome, received in my Rome!

In short, the young king is most dangerous. And I have not had a
shadow of violence about him.

To his destruction, he loves Camilla. Through them we are trying to control the uncontrollable.
"

"Never," cried Rusticiana. "Never, as long as I breathe.

I go to the court of the tyrant! My child the beloved Athalaric!
of Boethius's daughter!

His bloody shadow would - "

"Will you avenge this shadow? Yes! Do you want to destroy the Goths? Yes! So you have to do, what
leads to it. "-" Never, in my oath, "-" Woman, do not provoke me. Defy me. You know me! By
your oath! How? Did not you swore obedience, blind, unconditional,
I promise you revenge?

Hast thou not sworn on the bones of the saints, up and cursing your
children for perjury?

See you in front of you women. Obey or tremble for your soul. "

"Horrible!
Should I sacrifice all my hate you, your plans? "

"I? When people
talk about me? You cause I lead. Your throat I complete: I have the
Goths nothing done harm. You have roused me from my books. You called
me, Amali this crush. Would not you? Also good! I go back to Horatius
and Stoicism! Good-bye. "

"Stay, stay. But as to Kamilla be the victim?
"

"Madness! Athalaric to be there. You should love him so not only
to rule him. Or, "he added, they sharp viewing, added," you fear for
your heart? "-" Your tongue is paralyzed! My daughter? love him? rather
strangle 'I do with these hands. "

But Cethegus had become thoughtful.

It
is not about the girl, he said to himself what is in it! But if she
loves him - And the Goth is beautiful, witty, enthusiastic .... "Where's
your daughter?" He asked aloud.

"In the women's apartments. Even
though I wish they would agree never, never. "

"We want to try it.
I go to her. "

And they came into the house. Rusticiana wanted with
him in the room. Cethegus but they refused.

"But I must have," he
said, and walked through the curtain. rose at the sight the beautiful
girl of the carpets on which they lay in helpless senses. Accustomed
in the clever, dominant man, a friend of her father, always a consultant
and helper to find, they greeted him as trusting the patient to the
doctor.

You know, Cethegus "-" Everything "-." And you bring me help,
"-." Revenge, I bring you, Camilla! "

This was a new, a powerful
poignant thought! Only escape, escape from this painful Their previous
position had intended it. Not more than an angry rejection of the
royal gifts. But now, revenge! Retribution for the pain of those hours!
Revenge for the disgrace! Vengeance on the murderers of her father!
Their wounds were fresh. And boiled in their veins the hot blood of
the South. Her heart exulted in Cethegus' word!

"Revenge? Who will
avenge me? you? "-" You yourself! This is sweet. "

Her eyes flashed. The next morning
he was invited to tie his cart behind one of our wagons and ride with us. He replied that he
would be pleased to do so, but was anxious to make all possible speed, and felt that he could
not wait on the progress of our train, which was somewhat slower than the pace he maintained.
It was said that he was the first man who made the entire trip on foot and alone, from coast
to coast, as we were afterwards informed he succeeded in doing. 

8.

A philopena

Könnern spent a restless night. Not that Sarno's warning any doubt awakened in his heart or his mind
would have shattered, but the excitement that should decide his fate with the morrow, let him
sleep not, and only in the morning he fell to the tired eyes, just a mass of fun and adventure
Dream images room to give. By sunrise he was already awake and was able to Time is now not expected
to speak where he would see Elise and finally, for today, which had
he was firmly resolved, he had turned away from the old man might
not burn what it is he might.

Ten clock but he could not over, even that seemed still a little early
Hour, but his impatience just endured no longer, and with the stroke
of ten, he jumped up the already finished saddled horse and trotted
funny to the direction of Meier's Chagra.

Just in front of the colony passed him a small cavalcade of riders, the same with him Rode
away, and the young, charming lady, who led the train, he came to the company. It was launched
today morning to some to make a new acquaintance, therefore found
in his horse, saluted and left the pass by on the three, which then
also soon disappeared in the bushes, which ran down to the foot of
the next hill.

As the three riders with the way he pursued one and the same way he did not hurry so much more:
he wanted to avoid like to meet with them again, and let his horse
austraben again only when he approached the Chagra.

There, he led it sideways on a narrow cattle trails in the forest belt, fixed it, and set now from here
on his way to walk away.

And how his heart beat! As if he had committed a crime and every moment of discovery feared,
he slipped on the way there and looked timidly up and down, if no one came, could disturb him.
And with this fear on his mind, he should confront the old man and
ask for the hand of his daughter?

He dared not, and twice he was at the door and raised his arms, and twice he slipped back into
the thick bush, she once again to gather and reflect on what he wanted to Eliza's father said.

The
second time he came near the fence that surrounded the garden, not far from where He listened
to that morning Citherspiel Eliza and her over the last two grouse thrown, and he thought now
that he has been all over the girl long time not once again seen, of course, that he does not
really even a single specific Reason for the state was unable, after which he could safely
conclude that she was doing well, so him all his advertising was
actually like before half-mad, and he was even on the Points to give
them up completely.

What did she know of him? What could she do with him, gave him a right to co-opt to ask? If she now almost
laughed in her face when she told him - - as urged again, the soft tones of the zither out
on his ear, and her voice was she who accompanied her. What they sang or played, he heard no
more, the passion of the first hot love had overwhelmed him, and hardly is the clear that he
himself did, he climbed in the next Moments already at one of the thin, slender palm trees next
to the hedge up, jumped up there, grabbed the overhanging branch of a large tree standing in the
inner garden, which bent under his weight and broke slowly, and stood only a few seconds later
in the garden itself, and barely fifty yards away from the spot where
the Elise with its Instruments in the shade of an almond tree breitästigen
sat.

The young girl had but also the breaking and noise heard in the branches and the Head turned to
it, and jumped up startled when she saw the figure of a stranger So who violently broke into
her sanctuary.

But it was only a moment, soon realized to the intruder, and trembling, she stood next to her little
table, as can quickly she went on and stand a few steps in front of her with respectful salutation remained.

"My
lady," he said, yet always half embarrassed, but now with the firm resolve which now also
begun to carry out bravely - "above all I must apologize a thousand times ask me to have pushed
for such a harsh way to your area, but I - I could beyond help, and I had to talk to, and as I your
father, God knows what reason, stubbornly refused to give access
to you, I finally took refuge in a desperate Medium and - here I am
now.

"

"I do not know," stammered Elise in shy embarrassment, while the purple power down her cheeks
and her neck and was poured her features with a much higher charm - "I do not, in fact, so father
- you have to excuse him - he - is he sickly, and in which - particularly
in recent times have been so ill that he was shy above all, even withdrawn
the dear person has.

"

"I am not angry with him, dear young lady," said Könnern welcome - "what right I had also,
something to ask him what he denied all the other people just as well: the Access to his home -
and yet I'm here "- he added softly, hesitantly, even during his features now a light red colored
- "yet I have broken the spell, lies in the square, and - perhaps wrongly done with it, but I could
not help, Elise, "he continued, passionately -" I had to talk to, I had to tell you that since
this is the first time I saw and talked, only one thought filled me has, day and night - you -
you had to say that I no longer think life can remotely from you,
and bring me the decision of my future destiny of your own lips.

"

Menswear-rounders, "said Elise scared, and every drop of blood left her face at the moment.

"You
are right," said defensive-rounders - "it was a daring step - a step that in this way could hardly
count on success, and only now that I stand before you, where it is too late to do him back,
I feel the impropriety of it in all its severity. But be well assured, Elise, that I had done
it not entirely frivolous, that I previously only become clear if I was concerned myself, take
responsibility was able to guide you from your parents' home. My social position in life is an
honorable, I have enough assets, look to the future peace of mind in the face, even if I do
not have the strength in me felt me ​​get through my art. - But all are qualities that only the
existence itself - do not touch the heart, and I did not realize that you know me yet do not
know that you, too, no can have confidence in me, if I really honest and true to my, how my
words .

Say "

Elise breathed hard. The look she so here in the beginning to him revoked, had already long
sought the floor again, and when their lips a few times divided, as if they wanted to do was reciprocate
something, but not a word aloud.

Also, now silent Both stood mute and the other, opposite in embarrassing pause. Then took that
the word again up and said softly:

"You're right, Elise - the great question needs no answer. Let me go and carry away the only
image in the memory of your dear heart with the vast, bleak world. Only for the one I ask
you, right out because of my deepest soul, you are not angry with me. Remember You know that I
acted recklessly and carelessly, and think that I now only one be
solitary, poor wanderer will that - will continue so as to traverse
the world, as he started because he just - never can find peace.

Farewell, Elise - I will You never connect in the way and annoying - God's richest blessings
on you! "

With these words he took her hand which she gave him free will, expressed an earnest Kiss it,
let it go and turned away quickly to leave the yard again.

"Rounders," Elise cried in a low, trembling voice - "Do not go so!"

"Elise - I can believe that you not be angry with me," asked the young man who is her? by turning
off the sounds quickly.

? "Angry," murmured the young girl, head down to the ground sad -
angry "? repeated it, "is where it is the first friends word I heard
in a long, long years?

Go, Can you go into your world, which I do not know - what shall I never know, but take with the
assurance that you are one unhappy a dear, dear solace do that you have created it for a moment
of happiness to which it, he like so have been short as he wants,
yet for many years will happily consume.

Go, rounders, my Father will never allow me to part from him - he could not live without me,
but also you sometimes think kindly of a poor girl, this ... "

Rounders did not last longer. With frohlockendem heart he had the words of love child listened to
- the obstacles which they threw his way, he did not pay her, he heard they barely, and now rapidly
returning to its calling, he jubilantly:

"Elise - my Elise - you are good to me? You are not angry with the bold stranger who dared to your
heart to pound, you makes me hope that I can win you?

Oh, now all is well Won everything, because the father is and must be connected to me. Oh, if
I tell you now with words could say how heartily I love you, like
all my longings and aspirations, all of my thoughts the whole long
period in which we not seen, spoken, belongs only to you, only your
thought!

Look at me, Elise, oh, let me in your loving trusting eyes of happiness
also read that you me with your warm words, let me see this as a confirmation
that I do not more stand alone found in the world and have a heart
that wants to be in my joy and pain, in sorrow and in happiness.

"

Elise thränengefüllte struck the eye at him and then leaned her head and sighing heavily to his chest.

"It
can not be," she whispered - "I may not be happy -'ll not!"

"You're it - this kiss' I win you the bride, and how I should leave
God in my last hour if I let each of you, so trust me too!

Leg 'your fate safely in my hands, and is also a test before us,
should we have any barriers get in the way, let's not discourage you.

Whatever it is, we will overcome it, and I now own my life you give, so rest assured that your
future happiness in good and faithful hands. "

"And if we separated the father?"

"He can, he must not heart," said talent, kissing her forehead again and again, because she
held her face still recovered fast to his chest - he "is also in the children's happiness one's
found again, get to forget what he had done the world might be suffering; and then only we can
win him back to life, which he now almost completely renounced. Are you scared yet? "

"In your neighborhood do not," whispered the maiden - "here I am well on your breast - o, NOW
LIKE I die. But if I continue to think - if I must believe that we an evil Skill ever again off
- oh, do not go by me, "she begged him passionately embracing - "Do
not let me alone again, because only now, at this moment until I feel
that I spared my life - love! - Love! - Love!

"

A soothing flood of tears made her heart air, trembling, weeping,
she was long in Könnern's poor.

At last she struggled violently away from him, drying her tears and said them with a melancholy
smile so very dear to him, looking up:

"Am I not a child, that I cry against the first chance - and yet -
the Knower up there it looks - I wear it with a heavy heart, bitter
- oh, Bernard, do you want me never forget us when - the fate again
torn apart "?

"Never, never will happen One or the other," cried the young man passionately!
- "And now banish the dark thoughts out of your soul, you sweet love
- he went quietly - or" whispering and smiling away - "I should remind
you that you - found your philopena have?

As it was the last verse, you rascal? "

Elise hid her blushing face again to his breast and said:

"How You scared me then!"

"And you knew who it came from?"

She did not answer, but he felt her gently nodded his head and the experiment stubbornly opposed
to lift her face to his.

"You knew what it meant," he whispered so softly that the words they barely understand, and and
again she nodded and snuggled closer to him - and, oh the bliss of
this hour, in the two hearts were understood and the pure happiness
were held only in the to be one yourself!

What they cared even now the outside world, which cares and dangers of the next Hour? Könnern's
courageous heart was slightly off about it and Elise was himself
to save that to begrudge the moment his right.

Könnern led the mistress now to the little bench under the almond tree, in which her Cithertisch
stood hand in hand, eye to eye, the young people sat and chatted and found salvation in the
love of heaven luck.

As from the house sounded a little horn, and frightened drove up Elise. This was the signal for breakfast,
and she went from the garden.

"The mother calls," she said anxiously - "I can not longer delay, and - great God, it is so
late, and the father now in the Garden - if he sees you ....«

"Are you afraid, Elise?

Are you scared by my side, "said Könnern heartily -" and Have we done something bad that we
had to fear the gaze of the parents?

Will open I come before you - now, like right now, not in secret
to her child I sneak in and steal me the love, like a wrong Well!

No, I've honestly won and wants to keep honest, as my highest and most precious treasure.
"

"But the father ....«

"Sooner or later he would have to know that we belong to each other do for a lifetime; why then
spend some time in fear and anxiety, which should include only the purest happiness? Believe
me, my sweetheart, your father is not nearly as bad as you seem to think. Also, he once signed
with true love to your mother, and remember the time he likes, when I come before him. I'm also
independently in the world, and the Director Sarno, which my family
knows exactly, may prove to him that he is not the future of his daughter
concerned about his needs.

You still afraid that he will refuse me out?

"

"Yes," whispered Eliza, while her face turned pale again - "despite
all that, you know the Father.

"

"And your mother?"

Elise stood irresolute before him, lowered his eyes to the ground. Finally, it proposed the
loyal Eyes up at him and said with a look so very touching, full of confidence and love:

"So go to him, Bernard - talk to him - I trust you completely! How do you like my heart now
only one, I will also be guided by your heart. I feel you have Law, we must not have a secret
from their parents - at least I do not, after all, what they have done work for me. Go to them and
may God the Father draw sense that he Happiness of the child, for
the first time where it placed in his hands, not self-destruct.

But still One, Bernard, "she continued, as he wanted them to move to the house -" whatever
The father decides - as well as his sentence is - and if my own heart break over would have
- I can not and must not be disobedient. "

"Elise!"

"I'll be true," asked the maiden - "never to be in this hand of another man Right place, but
if the father forces me to bid on his side, I shall remain what happen with me. "

"It was," said rounders after a brief, awkward pause - "how easily
I also advance when I knew your love assures the decisive step was
approaching, so hard I am now, I fear you have to lose again, in that
moment when I I thought you forever.

But the first petition can and I will not refuse you - I feel that
I can not force you, if that is not your peace for later should destroy
times.

I want only your happiness - and that I only want you can, I'll now
prove.

"

"Oh, Bernard," the girl said sadly - "find only at your side, 'I did,
and You go from me, it's over - but thank you - I thank you very from
my heart for your love, what you showed me now more than before -
and now to the Father, that we unite our prayers there.

"

Some time ago they had outside the garden and wild Pferdegestampfe votes heard, but, too busy
with itself, no further care was taken.

Just now had repeated that, and they stopped listening.

Könnern thought of his own Horse, whether that could have possibly torn, but it was tied firmly
and securely - Maybe it was drunken colonists here zujagten the town - which took care it
it - side by side can defeat his right arm around the shoulder lover,
they walked slowly down the gravel path by the hedge along which supplies
the house.

Hardly but they reached near the door leading out into the open air and always carefully was
kept locked, but a few violent shocks occurred, however, and a voice outside, which may seem
known to inlet asked.

? "What's that," said Elise, anxiously grasping his arm - "we do not open."

"It is a misfortune happened," called rounders "should we look not?"

"An accident?" Repeated the young girl frightened.

"I think here in a powerless arms cried because Gunther's voice again
-" do you want it to die in the way? can "

"An unconscious? ! Equal, equal, "said Elise, putting aside every other fear -" the yes but we
must not fail our help "- and jumping to the door, they pushed the two great bars back. Könnern
expressed simultaneously on the wide castle that the outside had no handle, and looked surprised
his friend with his burden.

! »Günther," he exclaimed in surprise - "You here with a lady in the arm"?

"I could, I think, pretty much the same question put to you, rounders,"
laughed his friend, "If we now have time for entertainment, but the
arms are already crippled me - my Miss is likely to 'I ask you to
address the poor lady?

"

"Oh, the house is just steps away from here," said Elise, who, with folded Hands in front of the
pale stranger was - "oh, the handsome, unhappy child - come They quickly with me, there is
Anything that can help you get "- and with volatile steps They flew
above them, up the aisle.

Rounders had, however, to help the Friends of the load, the upper body of the unconscious man
taken in his arm, so as to follow quickly the Virgin could, and move him Guenther told a few
words, what happened out there in front of the garden.

Now they had reached the house, and climbed the few steps to the lower garden room up - the
mother had been through a few fleeting words Eliza informed of the accident and went to her
room to fetch salt English - only Elise awaited at the entrance,
and the two friends put the unconscious on the now standing on the
opposite wall Sofa.

Günther had arranged her clothes something and sat up just as the door left open was, and Meier
came in a hurry.

"What's going on here," he cried dismayed - "what happened? That's a noise "- his Günther's
eyes met firmly adhering to him, and astonished look, and talent,
which is just wanted to apologize to him, saw to his astonishment
that the old man shrank, as if he had seen a ghost.

Still, they faced each other so while Elise was busy with the unconscious and its to open the dress
looked as the other door opened, and Eliza's mother with the fetched
Vial entered - only a look but they threw at the group of two men,
and The Flacon her trembling hand was omitted.

"Mother, dear, dearest mother," cried Elise, jumping on this - "it's
nothing - just a Impotence - she opened her eyes again to propose.

"

! "Mr. Sell said Bach," Günther with calm, cold voice - "but I had no idea that we had been so
long already close neighbors, and can not thank enough to chance, of us together out here. "

The
old man stood as if frozen in stone - his lips had shared, but he said not a word, his eyes, before
which he was not wearing the blue spectacles appeared today, from their Caves urge to do,
and the two arms outstretched as he was defensively.

She comes to himself, "said Elise, who lifted the rolled toward her and the Flacon Patients had kept
- "Thank God!

Calm down, dear mother and father "- she turned as she spoke to the father and let out a cry
of anguish, as the State saw in which he faced the stranger.

!

"Father," she said - "Dear, dear father - to the merciful love of God, what happened?" and in
no time she was at his side and embraced him with her arms. Only
the contact seemed to solve the magic of which he was biased. - "Oh,
my God," he moaned - "finally! at last, "and would now fallen to the
ground, it would not have kept the daughter in her arms and sent to
the nearest chair, in which he broke in another collapsed.

"For God's
sake, what's going on here," said talent, friend's arm moving - 'what'
Secret stored between you? "

"This is now no room nor time to explain
it," urged Günther - directed "the lady on and - just does not need
to be made a confidante. Ask the young Lady that she leads the stranger
in her room until she has fully recovered and the house can leave.
We are out there waiting for them to escort them safely home. "

"But
I do not understand!"

"You do as I tell you. Everything else after.
"

"But we can leave the family but not now, not in this state?"

"We
can do her no greater pleasure. Follow me, only this time, you can
- the young girl because if you do not do otherwise! "

Helen's strong
nature, however, had completely shaken off the current weakness. Possible
that they might hit the fall but with his head on a stone and it was
only stunned was, but she sat up and looked surprised at her surroundings.
Günther, who seemed to think at this moment for all, used the opportune
moment, and ewe lamb on it, he offered her his arm.

"I see to my
delight that you have recovered, Countess, permit me to you to conduct
fresh air will do you better than all the medicaments in the world.
"sat quietly He then added: "The old people are upset about your impotence,
for it far more dangerous kept as it was. Show yourself strong, that
we talk to them. "

"I am strong," said the young girl, but I just
do not understand where I am, as I come here. "

"I'll tell the story
of the way," laughed Günther, her arm without further ado pulling
in his.

More than ever rumors of impending trouble were flying from train to train. Some of these were
to the effect that white bandits were in league with Indians in robbing and murdering emigrants.
The well-known treachery of the savages, and the stories we heard of emigrants having been
slaughtered also by whites--the real facts of which we knew little of--were quite enough to
beget fear and suggest the need of plans for the best possible resistance.

Up to this time there was frequent communication between trains, a considerable distance ahead
and behind. As at home, neighbor would visit neighbor, and discuss the topics of the day; so,
from time to time we met persons in other trains who gave out information obtained before leaving
home, or from mountaineers, trappers or explorers, occasionally met while we were yet on the
eastern slope of the Rockies; men who were familiar with Indian dialects and at peace with
the tribes, enabling them to learn much that was of importance to the emigrants.

Dissemination of news among the people of the various trains near us was accomplished not only
during visits by members of one train to those of another, but sometimes by other methods.
One of these, which was frequently employed in communicating generally or in signaling individuals
known to be somewhere in the line behind us, was by a system of "bone-writing."

There were along the line of travel many bare, bleached bones of animals that had died in previous
years, many of them doubtless the animals of earlier emigrants. Some of these, as for example,
the frontal or the jaw-bone, whitened by the elements, and having some plain, smooth surface,
were excellent tablets for pencil writing. An emigrant desiring to communicate with another,
or with a company, to the rear, would write the message on one of these bones and place the
relic on a heap of stones by the roadside, or suspend it in the branches of a sage bush, so
conspicuously displayed that all coming after would see it and read. 

"Where did you get your kid, blacks?" he exclaimed frightened, and jumped on to the goat. You
was very strange, not ate, was always in the same place and are pointed suspicious ears. Moni stood
close beside her and looked up and down. Now he heard a low, whining bleating. That was Maeggerlis
voice, she came up from below, so miserably and imploringly. Moni lay on the floor and leaned forward.
Moved down there something. Now he saw it clearly, far below the Maggerli hanging from a branch,
from the rock came out, and whined for mercy. It must have fallen down.

Luckily the road had stopped there, otherwise it would have to fall into the abyss. But even now
when it could no longer hold on to the road, it had on the Point plummet and break his neck.
In great alarm, he called down: "Hold on, Maggerli, hold firmly to the road! Look, I'm coming and
get you!" But how should he get there? The cliff was so steep here, impossible to come down because
he could, Moni saw a well. But the kid had down there at about the height of the rain rocks
be the overhanging rock, under which one could flee to the rain as well. There brought the boys
to always Geiss their days in bad weather, so called: Rock already from ancient times the
rain rocks. From there, thought Monica, he was able to cross about the rock climbing and so
come back with the kids.

He quickly whistled the herd together and went with her down to the point where the Rain rocks
went inside. Since he left them graze and went to the rock. Here he saw the same, still quite a bit
about yourself, the road to which clung to the little kid. He saw that It is not easy to climb
up there and get on with the Maggerli on his back down. But unlike the little creatures could not
be saved. He also thought of God he would certainly assist, then it might succeed him. He folded
his hands, looked up to heaven and prayed: "Oh dear God, help me, that I can save Maggerli!"
Now he was full confidence that everything will go well, and he hastily climbed up the rock
until He had reached the road above. Here he clung with both feet, raised Then the trembling,
whimpering little animal on his shoulders and climbed now with great care down. But when he
again had a safe grassy ground under the feet and the frightened Saw little kids saved because he
was so happy that he had to thank loud and called up into the sky: "Oh my God, I thank you a thousand
times that you've helped us so Oh how we are both so happy about it! "Then he sat down a little on
the ground and stroked the kid, which is still in all its delicate limbs trembled, and it comforted
about the loan crises Fear.

As a little later time for departure was set Moni the kid again on
his shoulders caring, and said, "Come, you poor Maggerli you tremble
still can today. you not go home, I must carry you.

"And so he carried the little animal, the hold of him pressed down the whole way.

Paula was now on the last hill before the bath house and waited for the goat boy. Also her aunt
had accompanied her.

So when Monica came up with his load on his back, wanted Paula know if the kid was sick, and showed
great participation. Seeing the Moni sat He is right on the floor in front of Paula back and told
her his present experience with the Maggerli.

The young lady was very lively interest in the matter and stroked
the little animal rescued.

Now it was quiet on Monis knees and looked very delicate with his white feet and the beautiful
black Fuzzies over the back. It might be quite happy to stroke a little.

"Now you sing me your song even if you're already here," said Paula. Moni was tuned so happy that
he sang like a full chest and all his songs to sang to the end.

The Paula liked the exceptionally good, and they said he had to sing it to her even more often.
Then drew the whole party together down to the bathhouse. Here, the kid was on his Bearing down,
and Moni took his leave. Paula went back to her room to her aunt here for a long time to tell
of the goat boy, on the merry morning song, they are already once again happy.

3.

Chapter

A visit

Thus several days passed, such a sunny and clear as the others because it was a particularly nice
summer. And the sky was blue and cloudless from morning until evening.

Every

morning at dawn was the goat-boy singing lustily drawn past the bath house, every Evening singing
lustily again turned back.

And all the bathers were so in the happy Singing used to, that no one would have liked to miss.

Above
all, however, Paul was happy to Monis cheerfulness and went to meet him almost every night,
anzuknuepfen a conversation with him.

On a sunny morning was Moni again reached the top in the pulpit and was about to rock just sit on the
floor, as he changed his mind or otherwise. "No, forward! You have indeed The last time the
good little leaves have to leave them all because we help the Maggerli had, now it goes up again,
as you can chew it! "And jumped with joy him to all the goats, because they realized that one
of the beautiful bushes of the dragon stones went up. This time was his small but Moni Maggerli
all the time in the arm firmly, crack him the good little leaves himself off and let it eat from
his hand.

This pleased the little kids Best of all, it rubbed quite pleased from time to time his head on
his shoulder and Monis bleated cheerful. Thus the whole morning passed and Moni noticed it on
his hunger, that it was getting late. He had his food down in the pulpit in the little rock Cave
can cherish, because he wanted to come down again at noon.

"So, now you've already got a lot of good, and I still have nothing," he said to his Goats.
"Now I have to have something down and you can still find enough, come!" Then whistled He pulled
out loud, and the whole crowd and away, the most lively and always forward all pre- the fleet-footed
Swallow, who was to meet today something unexpected happened. They jumped down from stone to stone,
and about some crevice away, but suddenly she could not continue.

Immediately before her all of a sudden there was a mountain goat and gazed curiously into his
face. That was never yet come under the swallow. She stood there, looked inquiringly at the
stranger and waited for her this go out of their way.

Because she wanted to jump on the boulder, the loomed before her. But the chamois did not move
and watched the swallow cheeky face. So both were each other, always stubborn, and even today
they would stand there, if not now the great Sultan would be at hand. He immediately recognized
the situation and climbed gently past the swallow. Suddenly, he joined the chamois so far and so
powerfully on the side that they had to make a bold leap to not have the Rock slide down.

The swallow but moved triumphantly on her way, and the Sultan walked
satisfied and proud after her, for he felt himself as a safe protector
of his flock.

Meanwhile Moni from above and from below, another goat-boy arrived
at a place close and also looked astonished at each other.

But they knew each other, and after the first surprise welcomed them to be friendly. It was the Jorgli
of Küblis, already half the morning long sought in vain to monitor
him and had now met up here, where he no longer suspected.

"I did not think that you would go up so high with the goats," said
the Jorgli.

"Of course I'm going," said Monica, "but not always. Usually I'm at rock pulpit. Why did you come
up there? "

"I'll make a visit," was the reply, "I have to tell you all sorts. Also I have two goats, which
I take the host in the bathroom, he wants to buy one, and there I thought I was still up to
you. "

"Are your goats?" asked Moni.

"Of course, the alien did not guard me, not I'm more goat-boy."

Moni about it had to be very surprised because at the same time with him was the goat-boy Jorgli
Küblis from now, and Monica did not understand that the way and could not stop the Jorgli not once
complained.

Meanwhile, shepherds and goats had arrived at the rock pulpit.

Moni took bread and a Piece of dried meat out and invited the Jorgli
to lunch.

They sat both the pulpit and also took it all in good taste. Because it was very late become, and
they both had an excellent appetite. When eaten everything now and then a little goat milk had been
drunk, the Jorgli put quite comfortable the length according to the ground and rested his head
on his elbows.

Moni was still sitting because he always looked like from above down into the deep valley.

"What are you now, Jorgli, if you are not goat-boy?"

Moni started to now, "something you have to be that. "

"Of course I am a little bit and right," replied Jorgli, "I'm Eierbub. Every day I go with the
eggs in all Wirtshaeuser, so far I get. Here come up to the bathhouse
I also, yesterday I was there.

"

Moni shook his head: "That is not Eierbub I do not want to be, a thousand
times rather I will be goat-boy, which is much nicer.

"

"But why?"

"The eggs are not so vivid, that you can not speak a word.

And you do not run still the goats, who are happy when you are coming from pending and understand
every word that you talk to them. You can not have fun with your eggs as with the goats up
here. "

"Yes, and you," interrupted Jorgli, "what have you been up here for great joy? Now you probably have
to get up six times, while we were eating, just because of the stupid
Little kids, so it does not hinunterfaellt.

Is that a joy? "

"Yes, I do very much.

Not true, Maggerli, come, come!" Monica jumped up and ran the little kids to, because it was very
careless Freudenspruenge. When he sat back, Jorgli said: "There is also another means to keep the
young goats that they do not about to fall down the rocks and they were not always jump in as
you need "

"What kind?" asked Moni.

"They stuck a stick into the ground and ties the goat with one foot
on it.

You then wriggles while terrible, but she can not continue.

"

"You will not believe that I have something do with the kids," said
Moni very indignant.

He pulled the Maggerli to him and held it as he would have to protect
it.

"To the little kid you do not have more to worry long," began Jorgli
again, "comes not up here.

"

"What, what, what do you say Jorgli?" went to Moni.

"Bah, you know's not? The landlord will not raise it, it's him too weak, it will never be a
hefty Geiss.

He wanted to sell my father, but wanted it not. Now it will kill the economy next week, and then
he buys our check there. "

Moni had become quite white with fear.

First he could not say a word, but now lamented he shouted and cried,

"No,
no, you are not allowed to do Maggerli that they must not do.

They may do not you kill that I can not bear. Oh, I would rather like to die with you. No, it
can not be! "

"Do not be so," said Jorgli annoying and pulled the monitor in the altitude that in his Jammer
had thrown with his face to the ground. "Get it on, you know, that the little kid Now once owned
by the landlord and he can do what he wants.

Think no more turn! Come on I know something else: Look! Look, "then held out his Moni Jorgli the one
hand, and with the other he covered the subject of almost, to admire the Moni. It sparkled but
wonderfully out of hand out, because the sun shone just in there.

"What is it?" Moni asked when she was just flashed back, lit by a sunbeam.

"Rat!"

"A ring?"

"No, but something similar."

"Who gave you?"

"Where?" No one, I found it myself. "

"Then it does not belong to you, Jorgli."

"Why not? No one I have read, I almost stepped on the foot, then waer's still broken. I can also
keep well. "

"Where did you find it?"

"Down by the bathhouse last night."

"Then someone from the house down is lost. You must tell the landlord, and if you's do not do
it, I do's tonight. "

"Do No, no, Moni, not that," said Jorgli now asking, "Look, I will show you what it is. And
I want to sell in one of the Wirtshaeusern a Maid, but they must give me four francs, then I'll
give you even one or two, and then white yes no one of them.

"

"I want nothing I want nothing!" Moni interrupted him violently, "and God has everything heard
what you said. "

Jorgli looked at the sky. "Yes, so far away," he said, doubtful. He caught but immediately on
to speak more softly.

"He hears you yet," Moni said confidently.

The Jorgli it was not quite comfortable in his skin. If he only monitor on its side bringing knew,
or was lost. He thought for a long time. "Moni," he said suddenly, "I will promise you something
that pleases you, if you anyone some of the found want to say.

You only need to take anything like this, then you have nothing to do with it. If you want that,
I will see to it that my father still buys Maggerli. Then it is not slaughtered, do you want?
"

Moni was a tough battle. It was wrong when he helped to conceal the
discovery. Jorgli had put up his hand, it was a cross in it, set with
many stones, sparkled in all colors. Moni saw clearly that this was
not a worthless thing, after the no one will ask. If he would remain
silent, he would keep something that belonged not to him. But on the
other side was the little, loving Maggerli, which was a terrible ,
Be killed with a knife, and he was able to prevent this silent if
he wished. Just now the little kid was so confident his side as if
it knew that he had always was to help. No, he could not have happened,
he had to save it.

"Agreed, Jorgli," he said, but without joy.

"So
a shock." Jorgli and held out his hand to Moni, that he promise in,
as only such a promise was irrevocable.

Jorgli was very happy that
now he was sure of his cause. But since Moni become so quiet was and
he had a much broader way home as Moni, so he decided with his two
Goats break. He said goodbye to Monica and whistled the two companions,
had now joined the grazing goats of the monitor. It had a number of
concerns Attacks between the two parties held since the Fideriser
goats did not know that it must be good with a visit. And the Küblis
goats did not know that not just choose the best herb and the other
may push away what you get on a visit. So when a piece of Jorgli the
mountain had gone down, broke Moni with his band on, but he was very
still and sang no sound and did not whistle on the all the way home.

4.
Chapter

Monica can not sing

Moni came the next morning just as quiet
and depressed as the night before the road Therefore, to the bathhouse.
He quietly took out the goats of the host and went up further, but
he sang a note, he sent no yodel up in the air. He let his head hang
and made a face as he was afraid of something. Here and there, he
looked shy around to see if he is not someone offspring and wanted
him to ask you something.

Monica could not even be funny. He knew
only itself does not quite know why? He wanted rejoice that he had
saved Maggerli and sing once, but he brought nothing out. The sky
was now covered with clouds, and Moni was thinking when the sun, would
come he'll turn out fun.

When he reached the top, it started to rain
very hard. He escaped in the rain rocks because it was pouring down
in torrents from the sky soon.

The goats were also approached and
stood here and there among the rocks. Genteel the Blacks had the same
wish to preserve their beautiful shiny coat and was before the Moni
crawled under the rocks. She sat now behind the monitor and looked
out of the comfortable Vergnuegt angle out into the pouring rain.
Maggerli stood before his protector under the projecting rocks and
tenderly rubbed his head against his knee. And then looked It amazed
at him, because Monica did not say a word that was not the kids used
to. Also Brown shuffled his feet and to his pretending that because
he had the whole morning, said nothing to her. Moni sat there thinking.
He had been leaning on his stick, he is always at hand in such weather
was so that he does not slip on steep sites could. Because on rainy
days he put on shoes. Now that monitor for hours under the rain rocks
sat, he had time to think.

Now roofed Moni, what he had promised
the Jorgli. And it never occurred to him now different before, as
if the Jorgli have taken anything and he do the same. Finally, had
Jorgli him but something given for his silence. He had done something
wrong was, and God was now against him, which he felt in his heart.
He was right, that it was dark and raining and it was hidden under
the rocks. By sunset all were sufficiently fatigued to wish for making camp again. It was Monica, a look of love from God to the clear Blue
down to him. And suddenly it was in his heart very clearly what he had, he was the wrong not
to ask around with it. He had to drop it. Now seized Moni the kid that ran around beside him,
took it into his arm and said tenderly: "O Maggerli, poor Maggerli did, I certainly did what
I could, but it is an injustice and we do not do. Oh, if only you will not need to die, I can not
stand it! " And now Moni began to cry so much that he could no longer continue to talk. And the kid
bleated mournfully and crawled deep under his arm as if it wanted to completely hide from him and
to safety.
 It required but a few minutes to put three or four yoke of oxen in working order.

As the result of much repetition, the packing of the camp articles onto the wagons was done
dexterously and quickly. I have to Leaders
of the distant capital, written and reported them to the state of affairs, I have friends
there and some have had loved me, - they will help you, that you do not Hint of trouble sollet
feels, and I'll help as much as is in my power. But you consoles and consoles the village: all
the help of people you will not need; I've learned, the sky and its characters on my walks,
and he shows that it will rain tomorrow .-- God always makes everything, everything good,
and it is also good there be where it sends pain and renunciation. "

"May your word to go in carrying out, son, that we celebrate happy holidays."

"Amen," his son said, "I accompany you to the mother. We want to celebrate happy holidays"

Whit Saturday morning had arrived and the whole sky was full of clouds, but still was not a
drop fell. That is man. Yesterday was any hope of the harvest, and Today, everyone thought
it would be helped with a few drops. The women and maids were In the village square, and had brought
barrels and dishes to see if it was raining, and the Dorfbach fill, but this year as usual, to be
able to make their holiday Cleaners and keep solemn Pentecost.

But it was afternoon, and yet not a drop had fallen, Although the clouds were not thinner - but
it came evening, and not a drop had fallen.

Late night had returned the messenger, sent to Felix in the city to the post office, and brought
a letter for him. It was worth [102] the messenger, came when he was alone in front of the
lamp of his Table, and unsealed the familiar handwriting: "It is such a pain in the That,
heavy with grief that I must refuse your request.

Your position selbstgewaehlte in the world makes it impossible to want to go, my daughter understands
that nothing be can, and has given way. You will spend the summer and winter in Italy, in order
to To recover and send you through me the best regards. Otherwise, her faithful and everlasting
friend. "

The man, as he read, occurred with schneebleichem face, and with quivering lips of the Tables
away - on his eyelashes trembling tears before. He went a few times up and down, finally put
the resulting letter slowly on the table, walked with the light from
a shrine took out a packet of letters, put them together nice, wrapped
it with a fine Envelopes, and sealed them - then put them back into
the shrine.

"It has happened," he said-breathing, and went to the window, his
eyes at the thick dark Night sky dramatically. Below was a withered
garden - the heath slept - and the remote village lay in hopeful dreams.

It
was a long, long silence.

"My selbstgewaehlte position," he said
at last up directing - and in deep, deep Pain it was like a quivering
bliss that it was worth. 

But I know it. A gift he has become, which puts people high, and yet it misunderstood makes among
his brothers - the only gift on this earth that no man can deny. On the heath, it had begun,
had to take back the heath he. Who exactly has returned a goddess is smiling face, more beautiful
than all earthly things, the can do nothing else but her serve in humility.

Back then he was gone, he did not know what he would be - a wealth of knowledge had He sucked in
itself: it is the n ae Next thirst had been, but he was not satisfied, he walked among men,
he sought voelkerweise - he had friends - he sought continued, he hoped, wished and worked for
an unknown destination - even for goods in the world and for possession tried it: Acquired by everything
but - through knowledge, work, people, property was However, as far back some shine as a brilliant
peace, like a gentle solitude had ---- his heart to the heath, the innocent, my childhood heath along? or was
it myself Such a lovely, quiet, gleaming heath ?---- He searched the desert and the deserts of
Orient do not brooding not mourning, but lonely, quiet, serene, seated wearing .-- And so
him this gentle, quiet sea back into solitude, and on the heath of his childhood and ---- now
if he was sitting on the Rednerbuehne how once, when the Sonnenflaeche the heath before him trembled
and was filled with a myriad of forms, as before, and some from him watched with the calm eyes
of history, others blessed with the love, the other large cloak great achievements over the
heath grinding - and if they told of the soul and their happiness, by the death and what had
afterwards, and from other things, what the words do not and if he was so deeply religious at
heart, that he said often than see - can say he passed out in the wilderness God himself, are
a quiet form of silver: it was then it is infinite in his heart he was happy to think that he
could, what he thought - and it was him, [92] that it is as good now as it was.

The junk Grandmother was the first that it had detected.

"There are an infinite number of gifts on this earth were strewn about," she had a Day called
"the stalks of grain, the sunlight and the winds of the mountains - there are People who bring
up the blessing of the plants, and run it in the parts of the earth; there are the draw as
roads, build houses, then others that the gold spread, which grows in the hearts of the people,
the word, and the thoughts can rise to God in souls. He has become like one of the ancient seers
and prophets, and it is one that So I have known ahead of it, and I have made it to the book
because I Koerner in the books thrown him, for he was always soft as wax, and high-minded,
as a the heroes.

"

The Grandmother, it was also, with which he alone employs more than all others with her, he
was the only one who could bring liquid speeches, and the only one
understand their speeches, he often read to her from a book before,
and the century old schoolgirl listened eagerly, and her face was
sun light, as she understood what was read. Perhaps
such a comparison may help to form some faint conception of what the overland pioneers did,
and what they felt, and saw, and were.

There they are as we see them, on a long stretch of sage-brush plateau. The surface of the
plain is only sand and gravel, as far as the eye can reach. The atmosphere is hazy, with dust
and vibrating waves of heat arising from the ground. Far away to the northwest is the outline
of some mountains, just visible in the dim distance. In the opposite direction, whence we have
come, there is nothing above the ground but hot space, and dust. Not a living thing in sight
but ourselves and ours.

The animals appear fatigued, jaded. The people appear--well, as to physical condition, like
the animals: generally all look alike. Yet the people seem hopeful. 

? "Hello," he exclaimed properly alarmed and drove around in his chair - had "because I for but
do swear that someone shouted behind me. Have you heard anything? "

"I told the stranger no matter -" nothing at all. What was it then? "

"Well, this is but yet strange," said the tailor, shaking his head - "I have very clear heard
someone say ... "

"Fool," came the voice again, and the man went down from his table, as if he had been sitting
on red-hot iron.

Now, however, also gave the stranger in front of the Window and no longer struck such a shrill
laughter that is surprised and Justus half irritated looked after
him.

But with the lace, still laughing, talking with both hands to the
Fensterbret was called:

"Calm down only brave comrade - you just
calm down, it is not the spirit of any blended cloth coat, who spoke
to you, but ... "

"I's had it myself," cried again before a little voice from the farthest corner.

"Yes, what the hell bright cursed Justus -" You bastard, you're for a ventriloquist? "

He laughed with the braid still that he tears down the cheeks of the dirty ran, and Justus, sitting
down again on his table, now himself went away laughing:

"Damn man! I really got a decent fright.

But come in, comrade; the old woman is the meal equally have done, and when you may not invited
to the Director are ... "

"A pretty hilarious and clean couple that has to be true," broke in
that moment a voice from the road the running of the two, and when
she then turned her head quickly, Jeremy was just a bunch of young
peach trees on the shoulder, which he made out any Chagra brought,
down the road.

"You probably cares, you burned scoundrel," he called out to the tailor, at the sight of the
his enemy quickly ran through the bile.

"Run, my boy, run ', they come," cried the moment in a voice close behind Jeremiah and this quickly
turned to surprise and the head of the empty spot.

"Run, my boy, run!" They come true, "it urged anew, and Jeremiah, still no one saw, but now it
was scary. He no longer thought of the tailor and his company, but walked out sharply, and now
as even a Voice was heard at his side, crying:

still "Stop, lad, hold still! I have one of your ears, "he began heartily to run, and stood
by the cheering, whinnying laughter of the two, is not based rather still, until he came back into
the real street and between several homes.

Justus nuclear bag was now beside himself with nothing but pure pleasure, his worst enemy -
Because he hated the industrious and thrifty Jeremias like poison - that led and driven to want
to see, and had to go with the lace, he liked it or not, into it with him into the house,
to take part in the meal just applied.

He found, however, not much appetizing as before, because of Justus' "housekeeper" to fit same,
and they did not think, because of such a score and even more circumstances.

The table-cloth - an old cotton rag - he looked as if it were a long
time to Fußteppich served before the door of the house had, and was
covered with grease, the earthen bowl just inside a little wiped out,
and the tin spoons wore the memory of the last meal.

He was with the lace but not too spoiled, and it is even possible
that he felt uncomfortable in front of a clean, white table cloth,
would have a right here.

Now felt He is equally at home unceremoniously wiped his spoon on
the next corner of the Table cloth - although not pure, but dry, and
then bravely arrived in the middle into it on the table standing dish
in which a fairly plentiful meal of small cut potatoes and meat cuts
was applied.

During the meal was not a lot of talk.

"What's your name anyway?" Asked the tailor to his guest.

"Bux said the man chewing.

"Short enough, the name," laughed the landlord - "and the first name"

"Did not."

"Have no first name? But you must still be baptized? "

"Possibly, but even as a boy I was always by my old man just called Bux and so it remained.
To have another 'I never asked, interested me not. "

"And the police did at home in this also?"

"Bah, what they wanted to do," laughed the young man - drove werkt "a while, they push me by
To get around the country to find out where I was at home, and my
documents.

After they found the bargain, and I was called Bux and I stayed. "

The woman carried the food out again, when all were finished, without uttering a syllable - Not
even a good day, she had commanded, as she came into the room.

How it's dirty Scraps from the table and tore it disappeared, "said Bux, pointing behind her:

"Does
not seem special mood today, the fair sex."

Home Dragon, "Justus said laconically," but - what I wanted to ask you, do you know the Lump,
because of the passed? "

"Which I did so pretty on the trot," asked Bux by his short pipe between took the teeth, and stuffed
in the red and green bags.

The tailor nodded, then continued softly:

"This is the worthlessness scoundrel who runs around all over the place, and has this" - he threw
a look back, whether the wife is not in the Room -. "whole bag full of silver buried in the woods"

?
"The" Bux said, was surprised and held to light a fire - "does not
really after this period.

"

"And yet it is true," operated Justus; "the scoundrel is every dodge, making money Hand over
hand gives and not a penny from it. But what he amass infected, he's an old bag and digs somewhere
outside where it can not find the devil himself may. "

"Well," said Bux, adding he blew the thick smoke from his pipe and
it just Justus staring into the face - "that would be a find for an
honest guy, when talking about even a Such a nest stumbled!

"

! »Is Yes, what is" mumbled the tailor - "One of our coming so 'can
not do - get's the Evil, I have no luck again!

"

"Too much luck in love," laughed Bux, Justus and muttered a blasphemous
curse before him in his beard, while the evaporated with the braid on.

Both were also now a While busy with their own thoughts.

Bux finally took the call again.

"Should he really be so stupid to have it out there buried in the
forest?"

"Why stupid?

'If he's better borrow someone? "

"We are both about?" Laughed Bux.

"Lies outside it, that's for sure," continued Justin, without going into the harmless joke 'And
I - have a remote idea where, but is alone with the villain to do anything. He has the strength
of a bear, and I do not want to walk alone in the area in the way.

"

"And he must be there? Now, if even any one out digging for truffles, "asked the other now lying
in wait, for his new friend seemed to know more than he initially thought of himself. Justus was
not yet quite in the clear with himself, for the acquaintance liked him but probably seem too
new, only to justify such a large confidentiality.

The with the braid while it had taken far too soon at his word, and
Justus, whether he really Knew nothing more, or even once such a mature
Compagnongeschäft would consider holding back, and gave evasive answers.

Bux

did not think so, too, to urge him and placed first on the track needed
He may not even be the tailor to his further help - he had other Things
made possible.

"Are you staying in Santa Clara?" Justus asked him now.

"For the present, yes - must first return trip have fresh money to
a little drive around the country; after I let myself down, I buy
a few dozen Ethiopians and will planters.

 "
 
 Thou dost well imagine, "asked the tailor.
 
 see "Do what to do, and if people have money. They're not all in's Forest
 bury? "
 
 "No, hardly," laughed Justin - "I do not at least."
 
 "Well, because adjes, comrade, for now - am just about to listen to a
 bit in places around, like the best thing is to begin.

Who could be the most convenient one for there information ? Give "

"Well," Justus said thoughtfully - "the priest."

"Hahahaha," laughed Bux, "there would come I just to the right smithy -" ne, pal, with the Pastor
is my business or my art if you want to do nothing. "

"Well, do not go out there," muttered Justus offended - "if you want to follow me, however, go You'd
just as a pastor, and for God's sake not a director, because with the nothingness. The Pastor
is a cross fideles house, a pastor, as he stands in the book who
has his fun cooperate, and on occasion even skin over the line.

"

"And you really serious?" Asked the the braid, is still doubtful.

"Certainly I am," said Justus seriously;. "'s Try only once - he does not bite"

! »God punishing 'me, then I go to the priest laughed out loud at Bux -" and if it's just fun
account would be that the draw and I once in a yoke. So goodbye, mate! "This he expressed his
newfound friend's hand, pushed his cap back on and an ear walked slowly back to the city.

2.

The
manioc mill.

About twelve leagues down the coast and a full Legoa into the woods was a large, admirably held
and ordered Chagra or plantation, with wide corn, beans, and especially Cassava [1], which last
a number of Negroes were employed, the large, heavy Dig up roots or where it went to pull
out of the ground and thrown into heaps, while to the woody shrubs
also dragged along in order to burn them.

[Footnote 1: The cassava root is a potato is not dissimilar Tuber, which with beans and pork, the
main food The Brazilian forms.

It grows, as the root of a shrub, but not round but long, just under the ground and often up
to arm thickness, with a thin, brown skin, like the potato. Strange to it is toxic, at least
the same juice, and it must therefore are crushed and pressed, after which the thus obtained
crude Flour dries and used for the food. A similar root as the cassava, and in shrub and bulb
barely distinguishable from her is the planted, especially in Peru
and Ecuador, Yuka, but which no Contains poison and is often eaten
roasted.]

Close to the fields and in a real forest of orange trees
were the houses of the owner grown with the Negro homes, with no claim
for symmetry in all directions and angles.

Anyway, it was a very significant and extensive plantations, but betrayed the apartments all the same,
because a little easier than their design and installation could not be well prepared or think.
The buildings themselves were made of wood and clay, with shingles and reeds covered, and well
provided with window holes, but of course without frame and glass. Even the floor was not gedielt,
not even in the living room of the owner, the Air could freely everywhere in and out, and when
even the morning or evening exceptionally should show fresh, it was
just a big Brazero, a brass brazier with charcoal, placed in the middle
the room, and who was just in it, crouched so forth.

Just as simple as the whole house, the furniture, which alone is simply planed wood existed and
were used instead of the beds on a rack focus tense cowhides that are a couple of blankets and
were stuffed with wild cotton pillows. In each bed stood a pair of slippers for about arriving
stranger, for it seems almost as if a Brazilian could have no existence except in thought
slippers.

He wears the same not only in home but also in his walks, and even on the road, and Brazilians
Slap in slippers to horses are not something so uncommon. This much is certain, as he enters
a steam boat, from the moment he pulls his shoes and his annoying him far more comfortable
slippers on, even if the way to the clean-washed socks often Chop
very serious holes show.

For convenience, therefore, the Brazilian grower has a good sense of comfort or domesticity,
but certainly not, and he used his money to a lot better with heavy
Overloaded silver riding equipment and horse trappings, as to the
place of his family and his the apartment is used, which should therefore
be his home - but he has not even a word for home.

Close to the little houses was a large cultivated, also erected on
piles shed with mud walls, a massive door, through which could enter
a loaded truck quite well, and in the interior with a full grinding
device, but still barely a third of filled the room.

The mill itself was not entirely appropriate in the middle and was in a very simple Wheel mechanisms
that drive with nothing more than a perforated iron plate fitted wheel. The sheet iron was in
the way our ordinary grater, which in any kitchen Found knocked out
only slightly rough, and covered a small box or a kind of Gefach,
in which only scraped cassava roots that were previously inserted.

Just back was a cart full of these tubers drove up into the shed itself and was then tipped
forward, to throw the fruit on the ground. There, crouched instantly fourteen or fifteen negroes,
but few men, women and children, so forth to with knives iron and scrape the tubers, which are then
carried by other slaves to the mill and were showered with a boy. However, was a powerful
bull brought in and blindfolded running perpendicular to the shaft curious to see what turned
the main wheel and Thrown the crushed roots.

The toxicity of the juice still permeated Geschabe was then packed in coarse-woven bags.

On the side of the shed were installed for these bags, pressing, raw, heavy wood screws with holes
to lift trees, as they are on ships at the capstan. Among these were the bags, under each screw
one, and were only a little screwed, that the juice from the tissue ran out, which then began the
bottom of a trough, and ran into a ditch.

Every half hour subjected to special people such as the screw tighter and tighter, until the
bag to the shape of a small firm and Swiss cheese pressed together hard and the last juice
out of the now Flour become Geschabe away.

Back to the wall, on a kind of oven, also was a huge iron skillet over the fire. There came into
the still slightly moist flour, and touched a negro, and moved here continuously until it completely
dried up, measured in sacks and in the storage chamber could be done.

It was a vivid picture of this mill, with the cheerful chattering
groups of girls and Children, with the hustle and bustle of the slaves
who went to her work as regularly as the bull, who made the roll,
with the semi-nude figure of the Negro on the hot Pan, which had the
glow of the already warm place to make even more unbearable.

The mill seemed to be used for an ordinary sitting-room, as close to the group of girls was scraping
a long wooden table with chairs so forth, and a of black women just
came in with the table cloth to cover for the next meal.

Among the women and children were black ancestry to a few white girls
with the same thesis, and an old lady in a black silk dress and black
Mantilla leaned close to it in a large wicker chair, and watched the
work, while two little black children aged two and three years playing
at her feet and her sometimes in her petulance climbed on his lap.

Located
just alone in one corner of the rest, sat a white woman, all in the
Environment did not seem to fit. She was wearing a strange costume
apparently, and the sparse hair stood conspicuously against the raven
hair of other people. Her face could be recognized but not because
she had covered with her handkerchief - she was crying? The Black
girl interrupted sometimes their gaiety, looked timidly at her over
and whispered then with each other. Serious thought but could not
take this light-hearted sex long distracted by his petulance, and
any joke pulled back all sketched out quickly sheer joy out.

to an
old gentleman in a dark, long skirt, but a Panama hat, now entered
the mill. He certainly was a clergyman and the owner of the plantation,
seemed to the woman in have not seen the corner on his entrance, but
went first to the workers, to convince himself that the job was completed
without error, and then went to the chair the old lady next to whom
he also wanted to establish himself as a gesture of the same turned
his attention to the stranger.

Slowly, he turned to her, she looked
good one minutes silence, then walked toward her and laid his hand
lightly on her head. The woman raised her eyes red with weeping to
him and looked at him, and the old man said kindly:

"But my dear
Lady, what you give over and over again these gloomy thoughts go?
The step you did, you have firm conviction and with their own free
will done, the laws of this country as the church itself to protect
it, so why now yet this sadness? Rejoice, you should really, that
you, albeit late, but finally come to the right knowledge are, for
the railway is now open before you, which you can lead to happiness
and peace. "

"Oh, you have surely right, reverend sir," said the
woman in fairly good Portuguese - "I've got it's all done out of free
will - no one has forced me to but now that it has happened, if I
may still sometimes thought, as if I were at the end wrong, as if
I had done wrong. "

"And an action can be bad, the law and religion
on her side has" asked the man The women and children were stowed away on bundles
of baggage and camp stuff in the wagons, some of them asleep perhaps, rocked in their "schooner"
cradles. A few of the men and boys perchance were strolling off the way, in the hope of starting
a sage grouse or rabbit from some sheltering clump of brush. During a specially quiet routine
like this; the cattle lolling behind the wagons, mostly unattended, keeping the snail pace
set by the patient teams; a steer now and again turning aside to appropriate a tuft of bunch-grass;
their white horns rising and falling in the brilliant sunlight, with the swaying motion of
their bodies as they walked, shimmered like waves of a lake at noonday before a gentle breeze:
quickly as a clap of the hands, every loose beast in the band, in the wildest fashion of terror,
started, straight in the course of the moving line--pell-mell, they went, veering for nothing
that they could run over; sweeping on, with a roaring tramp, like muffled thunder, they passed
along both sides of the train. The teams, catching the frenzy, took up the race, as best they
could with their heavy impedimenta; all beyond control of their drivers or the herders, who,
startled from the reverie of the moment, could do no better than dodge to such place of safety
as they found, and stand aghast at the spectacle. Fortunately the draft oxen usually were forced
to stop running before they went far, owing to the weight of the wagons they hauled and their
inability to break the yokes. He loved
to have been the beard sprouted, Gisa, his father's brother's daughter. They lived outside wide
at the far eastern frontier of the empire, to the cold Ister, where it is always in the struggle
with the Gepids and wild predatory Sarmatians and has little time to think of the Church and the
changing requirements which shall establish their councils. Lange was my father's Gisa do not
bring home: he had nothing but helmet and spear, and her mouth was the Walt Malschatz not pay
and prepare a woman no stove.

At last he laughed happiness. In the war against Sarmatenkönig he conquered the solid Treasure tower at the Alutha:
and the rich treasures which the Sarmatians zusammengeplündert for centuries and piled up here,
were his prey. To pay him his deed Theodoric Count appointed and called him to Italy. My father
took his treasures and Gisa, now his wife with him over the Alps and other beautiful goods bought
in Tuscany between Florentia and Luca.

But his luck did not last long.

As soon as I was born, a wretch, a cowardly rogue, my parents sued
incest the Bishop of Florentia.

They were Catholic - not Arians - and siblings: their Marriage was invalid under the laws
of the Church - the church and ordered them to separate.

My father pressed his wife to his breast and laughed at the bid. But the secret prosecutor did
not rest - "

- "Who was the Neiding"?

"Oh, if I knew, I wanted to get it and he was enthroned in all the horrors of Vesuvius! He did not rest.
Incessantly harassed my poor mother and the priest wanted her soul terrify with remorse.

In vain: she held on to her God and her husband, and defied the bishop and his emissaries.
And my father when he met one of the priests in their farms, welcomed him, that he did not
came back.

But who can fight with those who speak in the name of God!

A final deadline was the disobedient plugged in: they had not separated until then, they should fall
into the spell and her Possessions of the church.

Horrified, now my father hurried to the court of the king, the abolition of cruel to award
. Implore But the Statute of the Council spoke clearly and Theodoric, dare not, offending
the right of the Catholic Church. When my father returned from Ravenna with Gisa to flee, he
stared in horror at the place where his house stood: the date was expired, and fulfill the
threat, his house destroyed, disappeared, his wife, his child.

Furious, he stormed through the whole of Italy, looking for us. At last he discovered disguised as
a priest, his Gisa in a monastery to Ticinum: her boy had been snatched
and dragged her to Rome.

My father is preparing to flee with her all: she escaped at midnight
on the wall of the Monastery garden.

But in the morning, the penitent is missing in the Hora: they missed their cell is empty. The monastery
servants follow the footsteps of the horse - they are sought: grim
fencing is my father, my mother returned to her cell.

And so terrible Press the power of the pain and discipline of the monastery on the soul wore down
that they falls into madness and dies.

These are my parents! "

"And you?"

"I found Rome in the old Hildebrand, a friend of my grandfather's
arms and father: - He took from me, with the king's advice, the priests
and left me with his own grandchildren educate Regium.

"

"And your right, your heritage?"

"Fell into the church, which, given half left to Theodahad: he was
my father's neighbor, He is now my king!

                             "

"My poor friend! But how was it for you later? We know only dark talk - you were once caught
in Greece ... - "

Teja got up. "Of this let me be silent, perhaps another time.

I was fool enough to think even once of happiness and a loving God's goodness. I 've atoned for it hard.
I's will never do again.

Farewell, Witichis, and not to scold Teja, if he is not like others. "

He pressed his hand and was quickly in the dark porch disappeared.

Witichis saw long silence before him. Then he looked up to heaven, in the bright stars to find a refutation
of the dark thoughts that aroused in him the friend's words. He longed for its light full of
peace and clarity. But during the conversation was Nebelgewölk risen rapidly from the estuary
and had covered the sky: it was dark all around.

With a sigh, stood up and looked in serious Witichis senses his lonely camp.

Chapter Three.

While below dined in the halls of palatium Italians and Goths and
carousing, they had not that over their heads in the chamber of the
king was plowed a negotiation, the should decide their fate and their
empire.

Unobserved was the King soon followed the Messenger of Byzantium and a long and secret spoke and wrote both
of them together. At last they seemed a bargain and become Petros wanted to lift it again to
read what they jointly decided and recorded. But the king interrupted
him.

"Stop," whispered the little man, who in his long purple cloak threatened
to be lost, "wait - one more thing!"

And he rose from the beautifully curved seat, crept through the room
and lifted the curtain if no one is listening.

He then calmed down and took back the Byzantines at the quiet dress.

The light of the bronze lights flickering in the wind played on the yellow withered cheeks ugly
man, who squinted his little eyes: "Only this. If those beneficial changes should work - can
occur on that, it will be good, even necessary, some of the my barbarian
defiant rendering them harmless.

"-"

By this I have already thought, "nodded Petros. "There's the old halbheidnische Champion, which
coarse Hildebad, the sober Witichis" -

"You know your people well," grinned Theodahad, "you've been looking
hard.

But, "whispered he in his ear, "continued one that you have not mentioned, one must above all."

"He
is?"

"Count Teja, son of Tagila."

"Is the melancholy dreamer so dangerous?"

"The most dangerous of all! And my personal enemy! even from his father's side. "

"How was that?"

"He was my neighbor at Florentia. I had to have his fields - in vain
I urged him.

Ha, "he smiled cunningly," but they were my last. The Holy Church severed its criminal Marriage
took him while his property and let's me - cheap - from.

I had some merit to the Church in the process - your friend, the
Bishop of Florentia you can do it tell you exactly.

"

"I understand," said Petros, "what were the barbarian his fields not in quality! White Teja -? "

Nothing, "he says. But he hates me simply because I have to be genetic - bought. He throws me dark
gaze.

And this black dreamer is the man that his enemy at the feet of God to strangle. "

"Really?" Said Petros, suddenly very thoughtful.

"Well, enough of him: he will not hurt.

Let me read you now again, all the contract point by point, then signing.

First.

King Theodahad waived the rule over Italy and its islands and provinces
of the Goths, namely Croatia, Liburnia, Istria, the second Pannonia,
Savi, Noricum, Rhaetia and the Gothic possessions in Gaul, in favor
of the Emperor Justinian and his successors on the throne of Byzantium.

He promises, Ravenna, Rome, Naples and all strongholds of the empire the emperor to open without
resistance. "

Theodahad nodded.

"Secondly. King Theodahad will contribute by all means then, that the whole army of the Goths
would be disarmed and held in small groups over the Alps. Women and children have to to follow
selection of the imperial commander of the army or go into slavery in Constantinople. The king
will ensure that any resistance of the Goths must not succeed.

Thirdly.

But the king leaves Emperor Justinian and his wife Theodahad the title of king and the royal
honor for life, and, fourth, '-

This section, I will read it with my own eyes, "interrupted Theodahad, after the deed langend. "Fourthly,
the Emperor leaves the king of the Goths, not only all the lands
and resources, this is described as his private property, but also
the whole of the royal treasure Goths, which is estimated at only
gold embossed on four thousand pounds.

He übergiebt Erb and also to own all of Tuscany Pistoria to Caere,
Populonia to Clusium and finally transfers it to Theodahad for life
half of all public revenues through the this contract to its rightful
Lord repurchased Empire. - Sage, Petros, you mean not, I could ask
for three quarters?

"- -

"You can ask them, but I doubt very much that they granted you Justinian. I have already the
limits on the far, exceeded my authority. "

"Let's do but at least ask," said the king, the number changing. "Then must Justinian down market
or give it other advantages. "

Petros to the thin lips played a false smile:

"You're a smart business man, O king. - But here you charge it up, "he said to himself

Then murmured trailing robes approached the marble path and entered the chamber in a long black
Coat and black veil spangled with silver stars by Amalaswintha, pale
face, but in noble attitude, a queen, despite the lost crown: overwhelming
sovereignty of mourning expressed the pale features.

"King of the Goths," she began, 'forgive, if in your rejoicing, a
dark shadow still Once emerging from the world of the dead.

It is the last time. "

Both men were affected by the sight.

"Queen," - stammered Theodahad.

"Queen! O that I's never been. I come, cousin of the coffin of my
noble son, where I have done penance for all of my infatuation, and
all 'repent my fault.

I climb up to you, king of the Goths, to warn you from the same delusion and the same debt.
"

Theodahad restless eyes avoided her serious, searching look.

"It's a bad guest," she continued, "I in the midnight hour as your confidant find with you. There
is no cure for a prince than his people, too late I have it recognized, too late for me, not
too late, I hope, for my people. Do not trust you Byzantium: it is a Shield, which crushed the
one he is shielding. "

"You are unjust," said Petros, "and ungrateful."

»Sun, my royal cousin," she continued, "what this calls from you. Grant do not you know what I refused
him. Should we cede Sicily and three thousand soldiers to the emperor provide for all his wars
- I had the shame of me.

I see, "she said, on the Parchment pointing, "you've already finished with it. Stand back, they'll
always . Deceive "

Theodahad anxiously pulled the instrument itself: he threw a suspicious
glance at Petros.

Came forward against this Amalaswintha: "What do you want here, you queen of yesterday? Want
you defend the ruler of this empire?

Your time and your power is up. "-" Leave us, " Theodahad said, encouraged. "I'll do what I think
fit. You will never succeed me to part with my friends in Byzantium. Look here before your eyes
is our covenant be. And he signed his name on the deed.

"Well," smiled Petros, "you still came just right, as a witness to sign."

"No," said Amalaswintha with a menacing look at the two men, "I was still just in time to thwart
your plans. I'm going directly from here to the army, the People's Assembly, which is meeting
soon with Regeta. I will reveal to all the people in front of your applications, there the Plans
of Byzantium and this weak princes treason. "

"That will not angehn," Petros said quietly, "without you to sue itself."

"I myself will sue me. I will reveal all of my folly, all of my bloody Guilt and suffer like
the death I deserved. But be warned, this will frighten my Self-reproach my people from Etna
to the Alps, a world of weapons to stand against you and save 'I
will by my death my Goths from the danger into which they plunged
my life.

" And in a noble enthusiasm she hurried from the room.

Theodahad looked despondent on the Messenger: long he had no words. »Rate, help - stammered" he
at last.

"Rates? There's only one advice The Frenetic and will destroy us,
they can provide.

It may not fulfill their threat. Make sure you have. "

"I can not like," I cried Theodahad scared?

Where's Gothelindis?

Them, they alone can help.

"

"And the prefect," said Petros - "send them to."

Soon the two were named by the banquets up or refused.

Petros agreed them by the words of the princess, but without the
prefect of the contract as the reason to name a site.

No sooner had he spoken, shouted the Queen:

"Enough, it may not finish it.

One must watch their steps, they may with any Goths Ravenna speak - they must not leave the palace.
That above all! "And she hurried, to send trusted slaves before Amalaswinthens apartments. They
immediately returned. She prays loudly in her room, "she said scornfully.

"Up, Cethegus let us frustrate their prayers."

Cethegus had leaned back against the marble pillars of the entrance, his arms over his Breast crossed
belongs, these incidents with silent and thoughtful. He recognized the need to the threads
of the events they are more gather in his hand and tight to wear. He Byzantium saw more and
more penetrating in the foreground - not the angehn was allowed to continue.

                             Say, Prefect, "warned Gothelindis again," what does now need most
of all?

"

"Clarity," said this himself up. In every league has the purpose of the special purpose each of the
allies to be clear: otherwise they will always be inhibited by suspicions. You have your purposes
- I have mine. Your purposes are in the day: I told you the other day already said Petros
you want, that the Emperor Justinian to the Goths in Italy instead
reign: her Gothelindis and Theodahad want, so even with rich compensation
to revenge, money and honor.

But I - I have my purpose, what it helps to conceal it? My smarter Petros, you would not long
have believed that I only have the ambition to be your tool Senator and one day be in Byzantium. So
I also have my purpose: all 'your three some Cunning he would never
discover, because he is too close to eyes.

I need it yourself betrayed.

The fossilized Cethegus has another love: his Italy. Therefore he wants, like you, the Goths have
continued from that country.

But he does not like you, kick that Emperor Justinian necessarily in their place: he wants not to worse
instead of rain.

Most of all I would like the diehard Republicans - you know, my Petros,
we were that time both at eighteen years at the School of Athens and
I am still, but you need it to the Emperor, your master, not to be
reported, I have even written him a long time - the Barbarians thrown,
without you to make the start.

This is unfortunately not: we can not do without your help. But I want them to the inevitable limit.
No Byzantine army allowed to enter these lands, as to him to receive the last moment of distress
from the hands of the Italians. Italy is one of more the gift as a devout Italian conquest
of Justinian: the blessings of the generals and control computer,
which brings Byzantium to the countries that are free to stay saved
us: We want your protection, not your tyranny. "

About Petros' trains
drew a small smile, the Prefect seemed not to notice, he continued:
"Hear how my condition. I know, Belisarius is close with fleet and
army in Sicily. He can not land. He must go home. I do not need Belisarius
in Italy. At least not till I call him. And you send, Petros, did
not immediately the command, so divorce our ways. I know of Belisarius
and Narses soldiers and their rule and I knows, what a gentle men
this Goths. And I pity Amalaswinthens: she was a mother my people.
Choose ye, therefore, Choose ye between Belisarius and Cethegus. Belisarius
lands, it is Cethegus and Italy to Amalaswintha and the Goths and
then let see if you ask a Soil of this country rescues. Do you choose
Cethegus, he breaks the power of the barbarians and Italy submits
to the emperor as his free wife, not his slave. Choose, Petros. "

"Proud
man," said Gothelindis, "you dare us to put conditions, us, your queen?"
And she raised her hand threateningly.

But with an iron fist Cethegus
took that hand and pulled her calm down. "Let the antics Eintagskönigin.
Here negotiate only Italy and Byzantium. You forget your weakness,
we must you turn up reminder. Enthroned as long as we keep up. "And
stood with such quiet majesty He zornmütigen before the woman that
she was silent. But her eyes sparkled inextinguishable hatred.

"Prefect,"
said Petros now, which is "decided the time being, you're right. Byzantium
can reach for the moment not more than your help, because nothing
without them. If Belisarius reversed, it would be going with us all
and unconditional? "

"Absolutely."

"And Amalaswinthen?"

"I give
price."

"Well," said the Byzantines, "it is."

He wrote on a wax
board in a few words the command to return home and offered to Belisarius
to the Prefect: "You like to order the message itself."

Cethegus
read carefully: "It's good," he said, sticking the board in the chest,
"it is."

"When breaks loose Italy for the Barbarians" asked Petros.

"In
the first days of next month. I am going to Rome. Good-bye. "

"You
going? And we do not help the woman - the daughter of Theodoric spoil
asked the Queen? with bitter reproach. "Have pity her up again?"

She
is addressed, "said Prefect, at the door is just turning around. "The
judge is - the Hangman Office to lift. "And he walked out proud.

As
summarized Theodahad who had speechless with astonishment the Byzantines
see act, with horror his hand: "Petros," he cried, "for God and all
the saints, what have you done? Our Contract and everything rests
on Belisarius and you send him home? "

"And can this proud man to
triumph?" Crunched Gothelindis.

But Petros smiled: the victory of
cunning shone on his face. "Be quiet," said he, "this time it has
been defeated, the conquering Cethegus, vanquished by the despised
Petros." He took Theodahad Gothelindis and on the hands, pulled her
close to himself, looked around, and whispered: 'Before the letter
to Belisarius is a small point: it means all the writing is not serious,
is void. Yes, yes, you learn, you learn the art of writing the court
of Byzantium. "

Chapter Four.

Two days after the nightly meeting
with Theodahad and Petros spent in Amalaswintha a kind of real or
purported captivity. 

As often as she left her apartment every time
she turned into a corridor of the palace, every thought they appear
behind or next to figures glide to disappear, see the equally zealous
seemed to watch all her steps as her looks to itself escape: no to
the grave of her son, she could climb down unguarded.

In vain she
asked Witichis after Teja: they had in the morning after the coronation
leave of the king orders the city. The feeling lonely and umlauert
by evil enemies to be rested, pushing on her soul.

Hung heavy and
dark on the morning of the third day of the autumnal rain clouds on
Ravenna down, when Amalaswintha rose from the sleepless camp. Scary
it touched them, that when she went to the window of Mrs. Glass, a
raven cawing rose from the marble Sims slowly and with a hoarse cry
and heavy wings was flying over the gardens.

The princess already
felt about how her soul was bent through these days of pain, fear
and regret that she could not escape the dark impression which her
early autumn mist, rising from the lagoons of the seaport, brought.
Sighing, she gazed into the gray swamp out.

Her heart was heavy with
remorse and sorrow.

And her only support the idea of ​​free self-accusation
and humiliation, especially full The kingdom to rescue people at the
price of their lives. Because they did not doubt that the Kinsmen
and avenger of the three Duke would fulfill their duty fully. In such
thoughts they walked through the empty halls and corridors of the
palace, this time, as she thought, unobserved, down to the resting
place of her son, in the resolutions of repentance and atonement in
their People attach.

But Mr. Wood was still too indefinite in his identification of the man Tooly--at least in his
statement of it--to clear away all doubt, or even, as yet, to induce the majority of our men
to act on the judgment of some: that we should follow these plainsmen, learn more, and have
it out with them. See, for example, the comrades of our Federal.
From any one can say what reason has led him to do so. The fiery Jugendmut Licinius one: the
wrong track, but an honest sense of right Scaevola: me and the others Priest - the zeal for
the glory of God. "

"Of course," said Cethegus drinking.

"Another of the driving ambition: or the hope for a civil war to its creditors the necks To cut
or the boredom of the parent state of this country in the Goths or an insult by one of the stranger,
the vast majority of the natural aversion to see against the barbarians
and the habit, only in the Lord Emperor of Italy.

With you but suggests none of these motives, and "-

"And that's very uncomfortable, is not it? For dominated by knowledge of their motivations we the people?
Yes, venerable friend of God, I can not help you. I know it really not what is my motivation.
I am so curious that I thank you like to say, me - wanted to dominate, if I could only discover
it. Only the A I feel: these Goths are repugnant to me. I hate those fellows with their full-blooded
wide, flat beards. Obnoxious to me is the happiness of this brutal good humor, this naive youthfulness,
that silly heroism, this unbroken natures. It is an outrage of chance, which rules the world,
this country - after such a story - with men how - how you and I -. to be mastered by this North-bears
"Reluctantly he threw the main back, closed his eyes and sipped a little drink wine. "That the
barbarians away need, "said the other," we also agree. And for me, so everything achieved.
Yes because I just want the liberation of the Church of these heretical barbarians, which
the Deny Christ's divinity and only make a demigod of him. I hope that then the primacy of
the Roman church in the whole area of ​​Christianity that it deserves, no doubt will fall. But as
long as Rome is in the hands of the heretics, while the bishop of Byzantium supported by the
only legitimate and orthodox emperor "-

"As long as the bishop of Rome is not the supreme bishop of Christendom, for as long Master of
Italy: and therefore, the Roman chair, even when a Silverius take
him not what it should be: the highest.

And that is but Silverio. "

Surprised to see the priest.

"Be not disturbed, friend of God. I know that long ago and have kept your secret, even though you're
not familiar to me. . But further, "He poured himself again: -" your Falernian is well seasoned,
but he has too much sweetness. - You can really only hope clear that these Goths the throne of
the Caesars, not that the Byzantines took their place: otherwise, the Bishop of Rome to Byzantium,
his upper back bishops and emperors. You must do so in place of the Goths - not an Emperor - Justinian,
- but - what about " - "Either" - Silverio fell eagerly on - "for a suitable emperor of the Western
Empire -" He, however, " Cethegus completed his sentence, "is only a puppet in the hands of
St. Peter -" - "Or a Roman Republic, a state of the church - "-" In which of the Bishop of Rome,
the Lord, Italy is the main land and the barbarian kings in Gaul,
Germany, Spain, obedient Sons of the Church.

Beautiful, my friend. Just wait until these enemies be destroyed, that Spoils you already distribute.
Therefore, an ancient Roman toast: woe to the Barbarians! "

He got up and drank to the priest. "But the last night watch over and steals my Slaves have to
find me in the morning in my bedroom. Good-bye.

"The result was the cucullus the jacket over his head and went.

The landlord looked after him: "A very important tool," he said to
himself.

"Good, that he only a tool. May it always remain so.

"

Cethegus ago but walked the Via Appia, where the Church of St. Sebastian the input covered in the
catacombs, to the northwest of the Capitol, at the foot of the north end of Via sacra his house
was located northeast of the Roman Forum.

The cool morning air invigorating dash around his head.

He threw back his cloak and stretched the broad, strong, powerful chest. "Yes, a mystery are
you, "he said to himself;" drift conspiracy and night traffic as
a Republican or a lover of twenty years.

And why? - Why, who knows why he's breathing? Because he must. And
so I must do what I do.

But one thing is certain. This priest may be pope: he it must be you.

But one thing he can not. He must not stay long. Else lives well, her thoughts, she scarcely
confessed that you are still dreams and Wolkendünste: maybe but are clustered from a thunderstorm,
the thunder and lightning out and will be my undoing.

                             See, weather it glows in the east.

Good. I accept the omen. "

With that he walked into his house. In the bedroom he found on the Cederntisch his camp one tied
and pressed with the royal seal letter.

He cut the cords with a dagger, struck twice wax tablet apart and read:

"To Cethegus Caesarius, the Princeps Senatus, Marcus Aurelius Cassiodorus Senator.

Our Lord and King is dying. His daughter and heiress Amalaswintha hopes up yet to speak before
his death. You shall take the most important royal charge. Haste immediately after Ravenna. "

Chapter Five.

Atembeklemmend anxious mood was heavy and humid on the royal palace at Ravenna, with its gloomy
grandeur, with its vast spaces inhospitable.

The old castle of the Emperor's had over the centuries for so many
adverse change in style .

Learn And since the place of the emperors of the Gothic king and his courtiers Germanic entered,
she had fully adopted a less harmonious appearance. For many rooms, had served the peculiar
customs of Roman life, stood with the old splendor not used to its
facilities and neglected spider webs covered over the mosaics of the
rich but not long trodden Badgemächer of Honorius, and in the dressing
room of the lizards scurried Placidia on the Marmorgesims the silver
mirror in the walls.

In contrast, the needs of a more warlike royal household had some walls torn down, to the
small rooms of the old house to the other areas of arms rooms, pump rooms, Guard room to expand. And
they had other, by new wall guides adjacent houses connected with the palace, it create a fortress
in the middle of the city.

Happened now in the 'piscina maxima ", the dried-out pond, blond boys in their wild games and
the marble halls of the horses neighing Palaestra the Gothic guards. So had the vast Construction
of the eerie appearance of a barely half erhaltnen ruin, half of an uncompleted Construction:
and the castle of the king appeared as a symbol of his Roman-Gothic Empire his entire political
halbunfertigen, half decaying creation. -

On the day, however, the
Prefect, after years saw happen here first again weighed a cloud of
stress, grief and sombre especially hard on this house, for his royal
Soul should depart from it. -

The big man, long out of here a generation
guided the destinies of Europe, the Occident and Orient in love and
hatred admired the hero of his century, the mighty Dietrich von Bern,
whose name already in his lifetime, the legend takes hold decorate
had to die, the great king Theodoric Amal should.

Thus the doctors had not yet announced if he himself and his advisers immediately it was also
penetrated into the large and populous city. Although it is long since such an outcome the mysterious
disease of the aged prince thought possible, but now fulfilled the News of the impending entry
of the fatal blow all hearts with the highest Excitement.

The Goths faithful mourned and feared: but even in the Roman population
was a dull Voltage, the prevailing sentiment.

Because here in Ravenna, in the immediate vicinity of the King had to admire the Italians, the
gentleness and majesty of this man in general and to learn by special blessings most often had the
opportunity. Also feared after the death of this king, who during his whole reign, with the single
exception of recent fighting with the Emperor and the Senate, in
which Boethius and Symmachus bled, the Italians had protected from
the violence and harshness of his people, under a new to drive Regiment
hardness and pressure from the Goths.

Finally, however, still had an other, higher things: the personality of this hero king was so great,
so majestic was that even those that his demise and his kingdom often had wished for, but at the
moment, because now they should go out sun, lower schadenfreude not give serious concussion and could
not resist.

The city had already been graying morning - as it first from the palace messenger to all the
winds had divided and individual hunt servants had in the homes of the most Goths and Romans,
see - Highly agitated.

In the streets, squares, in the bathrooms, the men stood in pairs or together in groups, asking
and told what they knew were looking for an elegant to get hold of, who came from the palace
and talked about the serious consequences of the forthcoming Event. Women and children huddled
curious about the thresholds of the houses.

With the growing Hours of the day flowed even the population of the nearest villages and towns,
particularly Goths grieving, searching into the gates of Ravenna. The councils of the king,
ahead of praefectus Praetorio Cassiodorus, who in those days to the maintenance of high merit
order acquired, such excitement had anticipated, perhaps worse expected.

Since midnight, all entrances to the palace were closed and filled with Gothic guards. On the
forum of Honorius, in the face of the building, a train rider was set up. On the wide marble
steps that led up to the proud colonnade of the main portal, Gothic infantry troops were strong,
mounted with shield and spear, in picturesque groups.

Here one could, according to Cassiodorus command gain admission to the palace and only the two
Leader of the infantry, the Romans and the Goth Witichis Cyprian,
leave allowed to .

Grant The former was the one who took in Cethegus.

How is this the old familiar way to the chamber the king followed, he found in the halls and corridors
of the castle, the Goths and Italians, which their rank and prestige acquired access, distributed
in unequal groups.

Silent and sad were in the usually noisy pump room, the young leader and one thousand Hundreds
of leaders of the Goths or whispering together some worried questions, while here and as an
older man, a comrade in arms of the dying hero, in an alcove of the bow window refused to hide
his pain are, standing in the middle of the room, weeping aloud, the Head against a pillar
oppressive, a wealthy merchant of Ravenna: the King, the divorced
now should, it was a conspiracy, and forgiven his goods warehouses
from the depredations of the enraged Goths saved.

With a cold stare of contempt Cethegus step in the over all. He went on.

In the next room, the reception of foreign ambassadors to the specific room, he found a number
of to make Goths, dukes, counts and nobles together, holding apparently consulting the change of
rulers and the impending shift of all relationships.

There were the brave Duke of Thulun Province, against the city of Arles, the heroic Franken
defended, Ibba of Liguria, the conqueror of Spain, Pitza of Dalmatia,
the Conqueror of the Bulgarians and Gepids, huge, stubborn men, proud
of their ancient nobility, of the royal family of the Amali yielded
little - because they were out of the sex of the Baltic, had won by
the Visigoths, Alaric the crown - and war on their Merits, the empire
expanded and sheltered.

Also Hildebad Teja and stood by them.

These were the leaders of the party that has long been a harsher treatment of the Italians, whom
they hated and shunned at the same time, sought after and only reluctantly
to the mild sense of King had joined himself.

Wild eyes of hate shot out their center on the noble Roman, wanted to be there witnessed the dying
moments of the great Gotenhelden. Quietly walked to Cethegus them over and picked up the heavy
wool curtain, the farewell to the next room, the hall of the hospital's apartments. Upon entering,
he greeted her with a deep bow of the head of a high royal Woman, dressed in black mourning veil,
serious and silent, but in fixed mounts without tears in front of a marble table stood covered
with certificates: that was Amalaswintha, the widowed daughter of Theodoric.

A woman in the mid-thirties, she was still of extraordinary, even if cold beauty. She wore the rich
dark hair parted in the Greek way and curled. The high forehead, the large, round eyes, the straight
nose, the pride of their manly features and almost the majesty its full form, gave her commanding
dignity and in the Hellenic style all the way folded sackcloth resembled, in fact, a paced down
from her pedestal Hera of Polyclitus.

On her arms hanging, having more than supportive, a boy or young man of about seventeen years, Athalaric,
their son, the Gothic kingdom inheritance. He did not resemble the mother, but had the nature
his unhappy father Eutharich which a debilitating disease of the
heart in bloom had drawn his years in the grave.

With concern, therefore Amalaswintha saw her son in all an image of the father's and it was hardly a
secret at the court of Ravenna, that all traces of the disease showed itself in the boy. Athalaric
was beautiful as all Members of this son of the gods house. Thick black eyebrows, long eyelashes, shaded
a noble, dark eye, but soon melted away as in vague dreams, and sometimes in ghostly Flashed brilliance.
Dark brown hair hung tangled in the pale temple, with vigorous where Excitation, the fine blue
veins twitched convulsively. The noble brow had bodily pain or severe self-denial located deep
gouges in this strange young face. Rapidly alternated marble pallor and red hot transparent
on the cheeks. The lanky, but bent figure seemed mostly like tired to hang in their joints, and
shot only sometimes with frightening rapidity in the air. He saw the incoming Cethegus not,
because he had Leaning on the mother's breast, the wailing Greek cloak wrapped around the young
star, the soon to carry a heavy crown. -

Away from these two at the open bow of the room, the views of the Gothic war by Occupied marble steps
was granted, lost in dreamy senses, a wife - or was it is a virgin? - Of surprising, dazzling,
incredible beauty that was Mataswintha, Athalaric sister. She was like the mother of nobility and
height of the figure, but her sharper Features had a fiery passionate life, which is only slightly
lower than assumed cold barg. Her figure, a charming symmetry of flowering and abundance of fine
slimming warned Artemis to those vanquished in the arms of Endymion in the group of Agesander
which, after the forecast, the Council of Rhodes had to banish from the city because this marble
top Unit virginity beautiful and most beautiful sensuality to the youths of the island had driven madness
and suicide. The magic of the highest beauty of mature girls shaking of this nature. Their rich
flowing hair was dark red with an iridescent metallic sheen and of such extraordinary effect
that he was the princess, even at this through the magnificent had gold hair of his women
famous people, gives the name "Beautiful hair." Her eyebrows however, and the long lashes were glossy
black and lifted the dazzling white forehead, the alabaster cheeks
shining forth.

The delicately curved nose with the delicately cut sometimes softly quivering wings fell to a lush mouth
swelling. But the most striking to this striking beauty was the gray eyes, not so fast by the
rather vague Color, as shown by the beautiful expression that is usually lost in dreamy senses
sometimes could light up in scorching passion. In fact, as it then on the window declined in
the semi-Hellenic, half of her Gothic imagination of invention together elected Dress, the
white, high-arched arm around the dark porphyry pillar wrapped and out of dreaming in the
evening air, resembled those irresistible seductive beauty of their women, or forest Wave girl
whose love allverstrickende violence has always celebrated the Germanic
legend added.

And such was the power of this beauty, that even the burned breast Cethegus the princess had
long known, has been touched by his admission of a new wonder. -

But he was immediately taken up by the last of those present in the chamber, from Cassiodorus,
the learned and faithful ministers of the king, the first representatives
of that benevolent, but hopeless policy of reconciliation that has
been practiced for a generation in the Gothic kingdom.

The old man, whose venerable and mild features of grief for the loss of his royal Friend moved no less
than concern for the future of the kingdom, stood up and walked with tottering steps towards
the newcomer, who bowed respectfully. In Tears of the old man floating in the eye was upon him, he
finally fell with a sigh to the cold Breast of the Prefect, who despised him for that softness.

"What
a day," he complained. - "A fateful day," said Cethegus seriously, "he calls Force and replaced.
"-" Right you know, Patrick, and as a Roman, "- said the princess, disengaging itself from
Athalaric, -. was "greeted" She gave him her hand did not tremble her eye was clear. "The student
of the Stoics proved on this day the wisdom and the Zenos own strength, "said Prefect.

"Say rather, the grace of God strengthens her soul wonderful," Cassiodorus improved. - "Patricius," Amalaswintha
began, "the praefectus praetorio up was suggesting an important Business. His word would suffice,
even if I do not knew long ago. You are the same Cethegus, the first two songs of the Aeneid
has transferred in Greek hexameters, " - »Infandum Renovare Jubes, regina, dolorem. A youthful indiscretion,
queen, smiled Cethegus. "I've bought all the copies and burned on the day that the translation
Tullia appeared "Tullia was the pseudonym Amalaswinthas. Cethegus knew it: but had the Princess
from that to his knowledge no idea. She was flattered at their weakest point and went on: "You
know how it is here. The breath of my father are counted: after the saying of the doctors he can,
although still vigorous and strong, collapse at any moment dead. Athalaric is the heir to
his crown. But I lead in his stead as regent and over it the shaft mouth until he came to his
days. "-" That is the will of the king, and Goths and Romans have long been accepted wisdom
that already, "said Prefect. - Did "So them. But the amount is convertible. The rude men despise
the rule of a woman " - And she moved in with this idea in the face
angry wrinkles.

"It contradicts the least State law of the Goths and the Romans, "Cassiodorus said soothingly,"
it is brand new, that a woman - " - "The ungrateful rebel muttered Cethegus speak for themselves.
- Think "How about like, "continued the princess," it is so.

Nevertheless, I trust the loyalty of the barbarians in the whole, may also bear some of the noble
desire for the crown. Even the Italians here in Ravenna, as in most cities, I fear nothing. But
I fear - Rome .

The Romans "Cethegus listened to high: his whole being was in sudden
excitement: but His face was cold, icy.

"Rome will never get used to the rule of the Goths, it is repugnant to us forever - How could it not,
"she added with a sigh!. It was as if the daughter of Theodoric would have a Roman soul.

"We fear, therefore," - supplemented Cassiodorus, - "that on the news of the execution of the
Throne could erupt at Rome a movement against the monarch, it would be for connection to Byzantium
there are a collection of Emperor of the West.

"

Cethegus suggested as musing, his eyes. -

"Therefore," the princess was a fast, "must, even before those customers arriving in Rome,
done everything be. A resolute, loyal man I have the crew for me - I mean for my son - an oath,
occupy the main gates and courts, intimidated the Senate and aristocracy, the people to win
for myself and raise my steadfast rule, before they even threatened is. And this business has Cassiodorus
- suggested you. Say, will you accept it? "

At these words the golden pen fell from her hand to the ground. Cethegus bent to pick it up. He had only
this one moment for the hundreds of thoughts that at this application was the crossroads in
his head.

Was the plot in the catacombs, perhaps he himself was betrayed? Here was a noose the clever and
domineering woman? Or were the fools really so blind, just him force upon this office? And if that
was so, what should he do? Should he use the moment immediately strike to win Rome? And for whom?
for Byzantium? or for an emperor in the The West? And who should
be? Or were not the things ready? Should he for This time - practice
loyalty - of disloyalty? For all these and many other doubts and questions
He had to ask them and solve only for a moment, as he bent down: its
rapid Mind is no longer needed: he had in bending the innocent trusting
face seen Cassiodorus and decided he spoke, the style of reaching:
"Queen, I do the business." - "That's right," said the princess. Cassiodorus
squeezed his hand. - "If Cassiodorus," went Cethegus gone, me, "suggested
to this office, he has once again his deep knowledge of human proven.
He has seen through my shell to my core. "-" What do you mean asked?
Amalaswintha. - "Queen, appearances deceive him could. I confess that
I am the Barbarians - forgive! - See rule do not like the Goths in
Italy. "-" This frankness and honor you I forgive it the Romans. "-"
is given, that I have been for decades the state, the public Life
turned no longer participate. After many passions I live - with all
the passion - Only one playing muse and easy erudition, untroubled
by the cares of kings, my villa. "-" Beatus ille qui procul negotiis,
"sighed cites the learned woman.

The camp was a small cluster of rough shacks, built of logs, split boards and shakes. As if
dropped there by accident, they were located without regard for any sort of uniformity. These
were the bunk cabins of the miners; some of the diminutive structures being only of size sufficient
to accommodate a cot, a camp-stool and a wash-basin. A larger cabin stood at about the center
of the group, the joint kitchen and dining-room.

As we drove into the "town," the only person within view was a Chinaman, standing at the door.
For most of us this was a first introduction to one of the yellow race. He was evidently the
camp cook.

Major Crewdson approached the Celestial with the salutation: "Hello, John."

"Belly good," was the reply.

Having already heard it said that the invariable result of an untutored Chinaman's effort to
pronounce any word containing an "r" produced the sound of "l" instead, we thought little of
that error in the attempt of this one to say "Very," but believed that his substitution for
the initial letter of that word was inexcusable.

"What is the name of this place?" continued Crewdson.

"'Melican man dig gold."

"Yes, I know that; but, this town, what do you call it?"

"Yu-ba Dam," the Chinaman answered.

This response was intended to be civil. When he found it, and know how you feel about that? "

Moni looked to the ground.

He could not say how it had happened, and how he helped had to conceal the find until it was
no longer able to endure.

But Paula was very good to Moni. She took him to the side, sat down on a log to him and said,
with the greatest kindness, "Come, tell me everything as it went is Moni, I really want to know
everything about you. "

Well summed up the confidence and began to monitor and told the whole thing. He also reported
that he had made the lives of Maggerli concerns and how he lost so all the joy had and could no
longer look up to God. Today, he said he could not longer tolerate.

Now Paula spoke very kindly to him and said he would have just come right and everything want
to display. And it was right that he now said all that so sincere, he should not regret it. Then
she told the Jorgli ten francs he could expect if they the cross was again in hands.

"Ten francs?" Moni repeated in amazement.

For he knew that it had Jorgli want to sell. Now on Moni stood and said he was still down to Küblis
and if he got the cross, bring it first thing tomorrow morning. Now he ran away and was able
to again make some really big jumps, he again had a much lighter heart, the bad Conscience
was no longer contaminated.

At home, he put only his goat in the stable, said the Grandmother,
he still had a job align and immediately ran down to Küblis.

He found the home and said Jorgli him what he had done. The first was very upset, but when he heard
now, that everything well known there, he pulled out the cross and asked, "Is it me something
for it?"

had "Yes, now you can see Jorgli," Moni said indignantly, "in an honest
way you get the same ten francs, and on your Luegenweg but only four.

"

Jorgli was very surprised. Now it repented him that he is not the same with the Cross bath house
left, after he had picked up before the door. Because he had now no good have conscience and
it would have otherwise. But now it was too late.

He handed over the cross the monitor, and this hastened to home, it was now dark outside.

5. Chapter
Monica sings again

Paula had ordered that they should wake up early
this morning. If the goat-boy came, did they even negotiate with him.
In the evening she still had a long conversation with the Host had
and was very satisfied then come out of his room. They had to do something
Rants have identified with him.

When the goat-boy came up in the
morning with his flock, Paula was already standing in front of the
house and shouted, "Moni, because you can not sing it yet?"

He shook
his head: "No, I can not, I have to think now always Maggerli, how
long it takes me. Not to bind you to a fixed, - For
what associations the wrong? - But because I adhere faithfully to old custom, and because better
grows, what happens after the custom of the fathers - follow me.

                             "

CHAPTER II.
With these words he took the torch from the column, and walked across
the interior, the Cella of the Temple, past the ruined altar, past
the pedestals of the long- down fallen idols to the rear of the building,
the Posticum. Since rose before him a living object. There were
two huge, white swans, herstrichen before him a long time, and then no ahead, such as shadows,
again invaded the middle between the foaming breakers. And the goats were more common sense and did not go so easily. He went uphill,
and funny he climbed to all his goats. They were soon in front, sometimes behind him, the little
Maggerli always remained close to him.