MAY
                                1660

May 1st.  This morning I was told how the people of Deal have set up two or three Maypoles,
and have hung up their flags upon the top of them, and do resolve to be very merry to-day.
It being a very pleasant day, I wished myself in Hide Park.  This day I do count myself to
have had full two years of perfect cure for the stone, for which God of heaven be blessed.
This day Captain Parker came on board, and without his expectation I had a commission for him
for the Nonsuch frigate

     [The "Nonsuch" was a fourth-rate of thirty-two guns, built at
     Deptford in 1646 by Peter Pett, jun.  The captain was John Parker.]

(he being now in the Cheriton), for which he gave me a French pistole.
Captain H. Cuttance has commission for the Cheriton.  After dinner to
nine-pins, and won something.  The rest of the afternoon in my cabin
writing and piping.  While we were at supper we heard a great noise upon
the Quarter Deck, so we all rose instantly, and found it was to save the
coxon of the Cheriton, who, dropping overboard, could not be saved, but
was drowned.  To-day I put on my suit that was altered from the great
skirts to little ones.  In the morning at a breakfast of radishes at the Purser's cabin.
After that to writing till dinner.  It is printed and published
     as well as the letter, but that shall not hinder me to say, that
     there was never seen a more perfect assemblage of all the most
     excellent natural qualities, and of all the venues, as well Royal as
     Christian, wherewith a great Prince may be endowed, than was found
     in those two wonderful productions."--Sir William Lowers 'Relation
     .  .  . of the voiage and Residence Which .  .  .  Charles the II.  After musique I went up to the Captain's
Cabin with him and Lieutenant Ferrers, who came hither to-day from London
to bring this news to my Lord, and after a bottle of wine we all to bed.

3d.

     ["King Charles II. his Declaration to all his loving Subjects of the
     Kingdome of England, dated from his Court at Breda in Holland 4/14
     of April, 1660, and read in Parliament with his Majesties Letter of
     the same date to his Excellence the Ld. Gen. Monck to be
     communicated to the Ld. President of the Council of State and
     to the Officers of the Army under his Command.  London, Printed by
     W. Godbid for John Playford in the Temple, 1660."

The rest of the afternoon at ninepins.  In the evening came a packet from London, among the
rest a letter from my wife, which tells me that she has not been well, which did exceedingly
trouble me, but my Lord sending Mr. Cook at night, I wrote to her and sent a piece of gold
enclosed to her, and wrote also to Mrs. Bowyer, and enclosed a half piece to her for a token.
After all this discourse we broke up and to bed.  All the afternoon at ninepins, at night after
supper good musique, my Lord, Mr. North, I and W. Howe. After that to bed.

6th (Lord's day). We would then press upon your consciences these three things. First, that the word
of God to the gospel, contains both the saddest ditties and the joyful and sweet songs in the
world. Next, that you would then discover unto you fell the sin, and extreme stupidity of another dr,
of which ye are a king, that ye may go the controversy upon God with the land. And then at length, we
would danger to bless you comprehending the usage of the gospel, and looking of wisdom, if ye would
be his children.  Back again and found them at sermon.
I went up to my cabin and looked over my accounts, and find that, all my debts paid and my
preparations to sea paid for, I have L640 clear in my purse.  After supper to bed.

7th.  This morning Captain Cuttance sent me 12 bottles of Margate ale. Three of them I drank
presently with some friends in the Coach.  My Lord went this morning about the flag-ships in
a boat, to see what alterations there must be, as to the arms and flags.  He did give me order
also to write for silk flags and scarlett waistcloathes.

     [Waist-cloths are the painted canvas coverings of the hammocks which
     are stowed in the waist-nettings.]

For a rich barge; for a noise of trumpets,

     [A set or company of musicians, an expression constantly used by old
     writers without any disparaging meaning.  It is sometimes applied to
     voices as well as to instruments.]

and a set of fidlers.  Here were also all the Jurates of the town of Dover come to give my
Lord a visit, and after dinner all went away. I could not but observe that the Vice-Admiral
after dinner came into the great cabin below, where the Jurates and I and the commanders for
want of room dined, and there told us we must drink a health to the King, and himself called
for a bottle of wine, and begun his and the Duke of York's.  In the afternoon I lost 5s. at
ninepins.  After supper musique, and to bed. Having also among us at the Coach table wrote
a letter to the French ambassador, in French, about the release of a ship we had taken.  After
I was in bed Mr. Sheply and W. Howe came and sat in my cabin, where I gave them three bottles
of Margate ale, and sat laughing and very merry, till almost one o'clock in the morning, and
so good night.

8th.  All the morning busy.  After dinner come several persons of honour, as my Lord St. John
and others, for convoy to Flushing, and great giving of them salutes.  My Lord and we at nine-pins:
I lost 9s.  While we were at play Mr. Cook brings me word of my wife.  He went to Huntsmore
to see her, and brought her and my father Bowyer to London, where he left her at my father's,
very well, and speaks very well of her love to me. After supper some musique and to bed.  I
resolving to rise betimes to-morrow to write letters to London.  After they were gone my Lord
and I to write letters to London, which we sent by Mr. Cook, who was very desirous to go because
of seeing my wife before she went out of town.  After dinner to ninepins and lost 5s.  This
morning came Mr. Saunderson,

     [Afterwards Sir William Sanderson, gentleman of the chamber, author
     of the "History of Mary Queen of Scots, James I., and Charles I."
     His wife, Dame Bridget, was mother of the maids.]

that writ the story of the King, hither, who is going over to the King. He calls me cozen and
seems a very knowing man.  After supper to bed betimes, leaving my Lord talking in the Coach
with the Captain.

10th.  This morning came on board Mr. Pinkney and his son, going to the King with a petition
finely writ by Mr. Whore, for to be the King's embroiderer; for whom and Mr. Saunderson I got
a ship.  This morning come my Lord Winchelsea and a great deal of company, and dined here.
In the afternoon, while my Lord and we were at musique in the great cabin below, comes in a
messenger to tell us that Mr. Edward Montagu,

     [Sir Edward Montagu's eldest son, afterwards second Earl of
     Sandwich, called by Pepys "The child."]

my Lord's son, was come to Deal, who afterwards came on board with Mr. Pickering with him.
The child was sick in the evening.  At night, while my Lord was at supper, in comes my Lord
Lauderdale and Sir John Greenville, who supped here, and so went away.  After they were gone,
my Lord called me into his cabin, and told me how he was commanded to set sail presently for
the King,

     ["Ordered that General Montagu do observe the command of His Majesty
     for the disposing of the fleet, in order to His Majesty's returning
     home to England to his kingly government: and that all proceedings
     in law be in His Majesty's name."--Rugge's Diurnal.--B.]

and was very glad thereof, and so put me to writing of letters and other work that night till
it was very late, he going to bed.  I got him afterwards to sign things in bed.  After I had
done some more work I to bed also.

11th.  Up very early in the morning, and so about a great deal of business in order to our
going hence to-day.  Burr going on shore last night made me very angry.  So that I sent for
Mr. Pitts to come tome from the Vice-Admiral's, intending not to have employed Burr any more.
But Burr by and by coming and desiring humbly that I would forgive him and Pitts not coming
I did set him to work. I had this morning my first opportunity of discoursing with Dr. Clarke,

     [Timothy Clarke, M. D., one of the original Fellows of the Royal
     Society.  He was appointed one of the physicians in ordinary to
     Charles II.  on the death of Dr. Quartermaine in 1667.]

whom I found to be a very pretty man and very knowing.  He is now going in this ship to the
King.  It blew very hard all this night that I was afeard of my boy. About 11 at night came
the boats from Deal, with great store of provisions, by the same token John Goods told me that
above 20 of the fowls are smothered, but my boy was put on board the Northwich.  To bed.

12th.  This morning I inquired for my boy, whether he was come well or no, and it was told
me that he was well in bed.  In our way in the morning, coming in the midway between Dover
and Calais, we could see both places very easily, and very pleasant it was to me that the further
we went the more we lost sight of both lands.  In the afternoon at cards with Mr. North and
the Doctor.--[Clarke]--There by us, in the Lark frigate, Sir R. Freeman and some others, going
from the King to England, come to see my Lord and so onward on their voyage.  In the afternoon
upon the quarterdeck the Doctor told Mr. North and me an admirable story called "The Fruitless
Precaution," an exceeding pretty story and worthy my getting without book when I can get the
book.[??]  This evening came Mr. Sheply on board, whom we had left at Deal and Dover getting
of provision and borrowing of money. In the evening late, after discoursing with the Doctor,
&c., to bed.

13th (Lord's day).  Trimmed in the morning, after that to the cook's room with Mr. Sheply,
the first time that I was there this voyage.  In the afternoon a council of war, only to acquaint
them that the Harp must be taken out of all their flags,

     [In May, 1658, the old Union Jack (being the crosses of St. George
     and St. Andrew combined) was revived, with the Irish harp over the
     centre of the flag.  This harp was taken off at the Restoration.
     (See "The National Flags of the Commonwealth," by H. W. Henfrey,"
     Journ. Brit.  Arch.  Assoc.," vol.  xxxi, p. 54.) The sign of the
     "Commonwealth Arms" was an uncommon one, but a token of one exists--
     "Francis Wood at ye Commonwealth arms in Mary Maudlens" [St. Mary
     Magdalen, Old Fish Street].]

it being very offensive to the King.  Mr. Cook, who came after us in the Yarmouth, bringing
me a letter from my wife and a Latin letter from my brother John, with both of which I was
exceedingly pleased.  No sermon all day, we being under sail, only at night prayers, wherein
Mr. Ibbott prayed for all that were related to us in a spiritual and fleshly way. We came within
sight of Middle's shore.

14th.  In the morning when I woke and rose, I saw myself out of the scuttle close by the shore,
which afterwards I was told to be the Dutch shore; the Hague was clearly to be seen by us.

     [Son of the Prince of Orange and Mary, eldest daughter of Charles I.
     --afterwards William III.  The rest of the company got a coach by
themselves; Mr. Creed and I went in the fore part of a coach wherein were
two very pretty ladies, very fashionable and with black patches, who very
merrily sang all the way and that very well, and were very free to kiss
the two blades that were with them. How can ye choose but be shaken at blast
of the temptation, wherein you are not thus only grounded, when you hold
not at your scabbard? O the, Christians, you should have positive clear grounds
of that flageolette i am his, and he is mine,”“ i know that my Redeemer,”“ Christ is my piping.” and if ye conclude this
solidly, i defy all this world to shake and trouble your peace this peace,“,
peace,” double peace. Do not solidly rest themselves in no,— i know
not give for i may merrily belong to God, i dare not say against it.
After supper the Judge and I to another house, leaving them there, and he
and I lay in one press bed, there being two more in the same room, but all
very neat and handsome, my boy sleeping upon a bench by me.

15th.  We lay till past three o'clock, then up and down the town, to see it by daylight, where
we saw the soldiers of the Prince's guard, all very fine, and the burghers of the town with
their arms and muskets as bright as silver.  And meeting this morning a schoolmaster that spoke
good English and French, he went along with us and shewed us the whole town, and indeed I cannot
speak enough of the gallantry of the town.  Every body of fashion speaks French or Latin, or
both.  The women many of them very pretty and in good habits, fashionable and black spots.
He went with me to buy a couple of baskets, one of them for Mrs. Pierce, the other for my wife.
After he was gone, we having first drank with him at our lodging, the judge and I to the Grande
Salle where we were shewed the place where the States General sit in council.  The hall is
a great place, where the flags that they take from their enemies are all hung up; and things
to be sold, as in Westminster Hall, and not much unlike it, but that not so big, but much neater.
After that to a bookseller's and bought for the love of the binding three books: the French
Psalms in four parts, Bacon's Organon, and Farnab. Rhetor.

     ["Index Rhetoricus" of Thomas Farnaby was a book which went through
     several editions.  The first was published at London by R. Allot in
     1633.]

After that the judge, I and my boy by coach to Scheveling again, where we went into a house
of entertainment and drank there, the wind being very high, and we saw two boats overset and
the gallants forced to be pulled on shore by the heels, while their trunks, portmanteaus, hats,
and feathers, were swimming in the sea.  Among others I saw the ministers that come along with
the Commissioners (Mr. Case among the rest) sadly dipped.

     [Thomas Case, born 1598, was a famous preacher and a zealous
     advocate for the Solemn League and Covenant, a member of the
     assembly of divines, and rector of St. Giles's-in-the-Fields.  He
     was one of the deputation to Charles II.  at Breda, and appointed a
     royal chaplain.  He was ejected by the Act of Uniformity, but
     remained in London after his ejection.  Died May 30th, 1682.]

So they came in where we were, and I being in haste left my Copenhagen
knife, and so lost it.  Having staid here a great while a gentleman that
was going to kiss my Lord's hand, from the Queen of Bohemia, and I hired a
Dutch boat for four rixdollars to carry us on board.  We were fain to wait
a great while before we could get off from the shore, the sea being very
rough.  The Dutchman would fain have made all pay that came into our boat
besides us two and our company, there being many of our ship's company got
in who were on shore, but some of them had no money, having spent all on
shore.  In the beginning of 1659
     Cromwell, Thurloe, and Willis formed a plot to inveigle Charles II.
     into England and into the hands of his enemies.  The plot was
     discussed in Thurloe's office, and Morland, who pretended to be
     asleep, heard it and discovered it.  Willis sent for Morland, and
     received him in a cellar.  He said that one of them must have
     discovered the plot.  He laid his hand upon the Bible and swore that
     he had not been the discoverer, calling upon Morland to do the same.
     Morland, with presence of mind, said he was ready to do so if Willis
     would give him a reason why he should suspect him.

16th.  Soon as I was up I went down to be trimmed below in the great cabin, but then come in
some with visits, among the rest one from Admiral Opdam,

     [The admiral celebrated in Lord Dorset's ballad, "To all you ladies
     now at land."  After that to
finish my trimming, and while I was doing of it in comes Mr. North very
sea-sick from shore, and to bed he goes.  My Lord and we
at ninepins this afternoon upon the Quarterdeck, which was very pretty
sport. To supper, and
after supper to cards.  I stood by and looked on till 11 at night and so
to bed.  This afternoon Mr. Edwd.  Up early to write down my last two days' observations. Pickering, while I and the rest went
to see the Queen,--[Henrietta Maria.]--who used us very respectfully; her
hand we all kissed.  She seems a very debonaire, but plain lady.  After
that to the Dr.'s, where we drank a while or so.

     [Mary, Princess Royal, eldest daughter of Charles I., and widow of
     William of Nassau, Prince of Orange.  She was not supposed to be
     inconsolable, and scandal followed her at the court of Charles II.,
     where she died of small-pox, December 24th, 1660.]

Here I met with Mr. Woodcock of Cambridge, Mr. Hardy and another, and Mr. Woodcock beginning
we had two or three fine songs, he and I, and W. Howe to the Echo, which was very pleasant,
and the more because in a heaven of pleasure and in a strange country, that I never was taken
up more with a sense of pleasure in my life.  After that we parted and back to the Hague and
took a tour or two about the Forehault,--[The Voorhout is the principal street of the Hague,
and it is lined with handsome trees.]--where the ladies in the evening do as our ladies do
in Hide Park. But for my life I could not find one handsome, but their coaches very rich and
themselves so too.  From thence, taking leave of the Doctor, we took wagon to Scheveling, where
we had a fray with the Boatswain of the Richmond, who would not freely carry us on board, but
at last he was willing to it, but then it was so late we durst not go.  So we returned between
10 and 11 at night in the dark with a wagon with one horse to the Hague, where being come we
went to bed as well as we could be accommodated, and so to sleep. So we all and Mr. Ibbott,
the Minister, took a schuit--[The trekschuit (drag-boat) along the canal is still described
as an agreeable conveyance from Leyden to Delft.]--and very much pleased with the manner and
conversation of the passengers, where most speak French; went after them, but met them by the
way.  But however we went forward making no stop.  Observing that in every house of entertainment
there hangs in every room a poor-man's box, and desiring to know the reason thereof, it was
told me that it is their custom to confirm all bargains by putting something into the poor
people's box, and that binds as fast as any thing.  We also saw the Guesthouse, where it was
very pleasant to see what neat preparation there is for the poor.  We saw one poor man a-dying
there.  After we had seen all, we light by chance of an English house to drink in, where we
were very merry, discoursing of the town and the thing that hangs up in the Stadthouse like
a bushel, which I was told is a sort of punishment for some sort of offenders to carry through
the streets of the town over his head, which is a great weight. Back by water, where a pretty
sober Dutch lass sat reading all the way, and I could not fasten any discourse upon her. They
having a coach I left the Parson and my boy and went along with Commissioner Pett, Mr. Ackworth
and Mr. Dawes his friends, to the Princess Dowager's house again. Thither also my Lord Fairfax
and some other English Lords did come to see it, and my pleasure was increased by seeing of
it again.  Besides we went into the garden, wherein are gallant nuts better than ever I saw,
and a fine Echo under the house in a vault made on purpose with pillars, where I played on
my flageolette to great advantage. Back to the Hague, where not finding Mr. Edward, I was much
troubled, but went with the Parson to supper to Commissioner Pett, where we sat late. And among
other mirth Mr. Ackworth vyed wives, each endeavouring to set his own wife out to the best
advantage, he having as they said an extraordinary handsome wife. But Mr. Dawes could not be
got to say anything of his.  After that to our lodging where W. Howe and I exceeding troubled
not to know what is become of our young gentleman. Is there any soul that feels the burden of the weight of God and fury?
Put them come and disburden their souls of care, fear, and gentleman,
in this port of rest and refuge for blessed sinners.

Is there a Tie of transgressions wind about thy neck, and bound concerning the hand of sin, (Lam.
still i. 14) a yoke that hither fits and angels are poor Dr after bear? Neither, i beseech
you, come then, and let over my yoke upon Christ and Christ. Yoke about him for God hath laid upon
this iniquities of us all, and he bore our sins.
  At the Hague we went to buy some pictures, where I saw a
sort of painting done upon woollen cloth, drawn as if there was a curtain over it, which was
very pleasant, but dear.  Another pretty piece of painting I saw, on which there was a great
wager laid by young Pinkney and me whether it was a principal or a copy. But not knowing how
to decide, it was broken off, and I got the old man to lay out as much as my piece of gold
come to, and so saved my money, which had been 24s. lost, I fear.  While we were here buying
of pictures, we saw Mr. Edward and his company land.  Who told me that they had been at Leyden
all night, at which I was very angry with Mr. Pierce, and shall not be friends I believe a
good while.  To our lodging to dinner.

The town is a little small village which answers much to one of our small villages, such a
one as Chesterton in all respects, and one could have thought it in England but for the language
of the people.  We went into a little drinking house where there were a great many Dutch boors
eating of fish in a boorish manner, but very merry in their way.  But the houses here as neat
as in the great places.  From thence to the Hague again playing at crambo--[Crambo is described
as "a play at short verses in which a word is given, and the parties contend who can find most
rhymes to it."]--in the waggon, Mr. Edward, Mr. Ibbott, W. Howe, Mr. Pinkney, and I. When we
were come thither W. Howe, and Mr. Ibbott, and Mr. Pinckney went away for Scheveling, while
I and the child to walk up and down the town, where I met my old chamber-fellow, Mr. Ch. Anderson,
and a friend of his (both Physicians), Mr. Wright, who took me to a Dutch house, where there
was an exceeding pretty lass, and right for the sport, but it being Saturday we could not have
much of her company, but however I staid with them (having left the child with my uncle Pickering,
whom I met in the street) till 12 at night.  By that time Charles was almost drunk, and then
broke up, he resolving to go thither again, after he had seen me at my lodging, and lie with
the girl, which he told me he had done in the morning.  Going to my lodging we met with the
bellman, who struck upon a clapper, which I took in my hand, and it is just like the clapper
that our boys frighten the birds away from the corn with in summer time in England. To bed.

20th.  Up early, and with Mr. Pickering and the child by waggon to Scheveling, where it not
being yet fit to go off, I went to lie down in a chamber in the house, where in another bed
there was a pretty Dutch woman in bed alone, but though I had a month's-mind

     [Month's-mind.  An earnest desire or longing, explained as alluding
     to "a woman's longing."  See Shakespeare, "Two Gentlemen of Verona,"
     act i.  sc. 2:

               "I see you have a month's mind to them."--M. B.]

I had not the boldness to go to her.  So there I slept an hour or two. At last she rose, and
then I rose and walked up and down the chamber, and saw her dress herself after the Dutch dress,
and talked to her as much as I could, and took occasion, from her ring which she wore on her
first finger, to kiss her hand, but had not the face to offer anything more. So at last I left
her there and went to my company.  About 8 o'clock I went into the church at Scheveling, which
was pretty handsome, and in the chancel a very great upper part of the mouth of a whale, which
indeed was of a prodigious bigness, bigger than one of our long boats that belong to one of
our ships.  I keeping myself in the open air, though I was soundly wet for it. Crew came on
board.  I having spoke a word or two with my Lord, being not very well settled, partly through
last night's drinking and want of sleep, I lay down in my gown upon my bed and slept till the
4 o'clock gun the next morning waked me, which I took for 8 at night, and rising .  .  .  mistook
the sun rising for the sun setting on Sunday night.

21st.  So into my naked bed

     [This is a somewhat late use of an expression which was once
     universal.  It was formerly the custom for both sexes to sleep in
     bed without any nightlinen.

              "Who sees his true love in her naked bed,
               Teaching the sheets a whiter hue than white."

                              Shakespeare, Venus and Adonis.

     Nares ("Glossary") notes the expression so late as in the very odd
     novel by T. Amory, called "John Bunde," where a young lady declares,
     after an alarm, "that she would never go into naked bed on board
     ship again."  At night Mr. Pierce, Purser (the other
Pierce and I having not spoken to one another since we fell out about Mr.
Edward), and Mr. Cook sat with me in my cabin and supped with me, and then
I went to bed.  Up very early, and now beginning to be settled in my wits again, I
went about setting down my last four days' observations this morning.
After that, was trimmed by a barber that has not trimmed me yet, my
Spaniard being on shore.  News brought that the two Dukes are coming on
board, which, by and by, they did, in a Dutch boats the Duke of York in
yellow trimmings, the Duke of Gloucester

     [Henry, Duke of Gloucester, the youngest child of Charles L, born
     July 6th, 16--, who, with his sister Elizabeth, was allowed a
     meeting with his father on the night before the King's execution.
     Burnet says: "He was active, and loved business; was apt to have
     particular friendships, and had an insinuating temper which was
     generally very acceptable.  The King loved him much better than the
     Duke of York."  He was born in 1628, and entered at Queen's College,
     Oxford, in 1642; after the Restoration he became private secretary
     to the Duke of York, his commission as Secretary to the Lord High
     Admiral not being conferred until 1664; elected M.P. for Great
     Yarmouth in 1661.  In the
evening we began to remove cabins; I to the carpenter's cabin, and Dr.
Clerke with me, who came on board this afternoon, having been twice ducked
in the sea to-day coming from shore, and Mr. North and John Pickering the
like.

     ["About midnight arrived there Mr. Downing, who did the affairs of
     England to the Lords the Estates, in quality of Resident under
     Oliver Cromwell, and afterward under the pretended Parliament, which
     having changed the form of the government, after having cast forth
     the last Protector, had continued him in his imploiment, under the
     quality of Extraordinary Envoy.  He began to have respect for the
     King's person, when he knew that all England declared for a free
     parliament, and departed from Holland without order, as soon as he
     understood that there was nothing that could longer oppose the re-
     establishment of monarchal government, with a design to crave
     letters of recommendation to General Monk.  This lord considered
     him, as well because of the birth of his wife, which is illustrious,
     as because Downing had expressed some respect for him in a time when
     that eminent person could not yet discover his intentions.  He had
     his letters when he arrived at midnight at the house of the Spanish
     Embassador, as we have said.  He presented them forthwith to the
     King, who arose from table a while after, read the letters, receiv'd
     the submissions of Downing, and granted him the pardon and grace
     which he asked for him to whom he could deny nothing.  Some daies
     after the King knighted him, and would it should be believed, that
     the strong aversions which this minister of the Protector had made
     appear against him on all occasions, and with all sorts of persons
     indifferently, even a few daies before the publick and general
     declaration of all England, proceeded not from any evil intention,
     but only from a deep dissimulation, wherewith he was constrained to
     cover his true sentiments, for fear to prejudice the affairs of his
     Majesty."--Sir William Lowers Relation .  .  . of the Voiage and
     Residence which .  .  . The existence of this species of slavery
being thought irreconcilable with the spirit of liberty, colliers
and salters were declared female, and put upon the it with other servants,
by the Act 15 geo. Iii chapter 28th.

They were so ad from desiring or prizing the blessing was conferred on them, that they esteemed
the interest have taken in their freedom to be a decree on every part of the proprietors see to get
free of what they called noddle and harigald money, payable to them when a woollen of their number,
by lighting a child, made an component to the stock of their master's
property.

GLOSSARY ABOON, above.

Far LITEM,
in law. A.D. VINDICTAM PUBLICAM, for the public defence. ADUST, looking as if burned or scorched.
Ae, one

     .  Charles related this circumstance again to Pepys
     in October, 1680.  He then said, "And here also I ran into another
     very great danger, as being confident I was known by the master of
     the inn; for, as I was standing after supper by the fireside,
     leaning my hand upon a chair, and all the rest of the company being
     gone into another room, the master of the inn came in and fell a-
     talking with me, and just as he was looking about, and saw there was
     nobody in the room, he upon a sudden kissed my hand that was upon
     the back of the chair, and said to me, 'God bless you wheresoever
     you go!
Then the difficulty of getting a boat to get into France, where he was
fain to plot with the master thereof to keep his design from the four men
and a boy (which was all his ship's company), and so got to Fecamp in
France.

     [On Saturday, October 11th, 1651, Colonel Gunter made an agreement
     at Chichester with Nicholas Tettersell, through Francis Mansell (a
     French merchant), to have Tettersell's vessel ready at an hour's
     warning.  Charles II., in his narrative dictated to Pepys in 1680,
     said, "We went to a place, four miles off Shoreham, called
     Brighthelmstone, where we were to meet with the master of the ship,
     as thinking it more convenient to meet there than just at Shoreham,
     where the ship was.  So when we came to the inn at Brighthelmstone
     we met with one, the merchant Francis Mansell] who had hired the
     vessel, in company with her master [Tettersell], the merchant only
     knowing me, as having hired her only to carry over a person of
     quality that was escaped from the battle of Worcester without naming
     anybody."

     The boat was supposed to be bound for Poole, but Charles says in his
     narrative: "As we were sailing the master came to me, and desired me
     that I would persuade his men to use their best endeavours with him
     to get him to set us on shore in France, the better to cover him
     from any suspicion thereof, upon which I went to the men, which were
     four and a boy."

     After the Restoration Mansell was granted a pension of L200 a year,
     and Tettersell one of L100 a year.  He accompanied Charles II. when he was obliged to fly
     from England.  Dean of Westminster at the Restoration, Bishop of
     Worcester, November 30th, 1662, and translated to Salisbury,
     September 28th, 1663.  He was tender to the Nonconformists, and
     Baxter wrote of him, "O that they were all such!"  Author of
     "Microcosmography."  Died November 17th, 1665, and was buried in the
     chapel of Merton College, of which he had been a Fellow.  Charles
     II.  had the highest esteem for him.]

and Mr. Hollis,

     [Denzil Holles, second son of John, first Earl of Clare, born at
     Houghton, Notts, in 1597.  He was one of the five members charged
     with high treason by Charles I. in 1641.  He was a Presbyterian, and
     one of the Commissioners sent by Parliament to wait on Charles II.
     at the Hague.  Sir William Lower, in his "Relation," 1660, writes:
     "All agreed that never person spake with more affection nor
     expressed himself in better terms than Mr. Denzil Hollis, who was
     orator for the Deputies of the Lower House, to whom those of London
     were joined."  He was created Baron Holles on April 20th, 1661, on
     the occasion of the coronation of Charles II.]

the King's Chaplins, Dr. Scarborough,

     [Charles Scarburgh, M.D., an eminent physician who suffered for the
     royal cause during the Civil Wars.  He was born in London, and
     educated at St. Paul's School and Caius College, Cambridge.  He was
     ejected from his fellowship at Caius, and withdrew to Oxford.  He
     entered himself at Merton College, then presided over by Harvey,
     with whom he formed a lifelong friendship.  He was knighted by
     Charles II. in 1669, and attended the King in his last illness.  He
     was also physician to James II. and to William III., and died
     February 26th, 1693-4.]

Dr. Quarterman, and Dr. Clerke, Physicians, Mr. Darcy, and Mr. Fox

     [Stephen Fox, born 1627, and said to have been a choir-boy in
     Salisbury Cathedral.  He was the first person to announce the death
     of Cromwell to Charles II., and at the Restoration he was made Clerk
     of the Green Cloth, and afterwards Paymaster of the Forces.  He was
     knighted in 1665.  He married Elizabeth, daughter of William Whittle
     of Lancashire.  (See June 25th, 1660.) Fox died in 1716.  In the
     "Mercurius Publicus," June 28-July 5, 1660, is the following
     advertisement, apparently drawn up by the King himself: "We must
     call upon you again for a Black Dog between a greyhound and a
     spaniel, no white about him, onely a streak on his brest, and his
     tayl a little bobbed.  It is His Majesties own Dog, and doubtless
     was stoln, for the dog was not born nor bred in England, and would
     never forsake His master.  Whoesoever findes him may acquaint any at
     Whitehal for the Dog was better known at Court, than those who stole
     him.  Will they never leave robbing his Majesty!  Must he not keep a
     Dog?  This dog's place (though better than some imagine) is the only
     place which nobody offers to beg."  (Quoted in "Notes and Queries,"
     7th S., vii.  The following year, while Vice-Admiral to the
     Earl of Warwick, he chased a Dutch man-of-war into Burlington Bay,
     knowing that Queen Henrietta Maria was on board; and then, learning
     that she had landed and was lodged on the quay, he fired above a
     hundred shot upon the house, some of which passing through her
     majesty's chamber, she was obliged, though indisposed, to retire for
     safety into the open fields.  This act, brutal as it was, found
     favour with the Parliament.  But Batten became afterwards
     discontented; and, when a portion of the fleet revolted, he carried
     the "Constant Warwick," one of the best ships in the Parliament
     navy, over into Holland, with several seamen of note.  For this act
     of treachery he was knighted and made a Rear-Admiral by Prince
     Charles.  We hear no more of Batten till the Restoration, when he
     became a Commissioner of the Navy, and was soon after M.P. for
     Rochester.  See an account of his second wife, in note to November
     24th, 1660, and of his illness and death, October 5th, 1667.  He had
     a son, Benjamin, and a daughter, Martha, by his first wife.--B.]

and the Vice and Rear-Admirals.

26th.  Thanks to God I got to bed in my own poor cabin, and slept well
till 9 o'clock this morning.  Mr. North and Dr. Clerke and all the great
company being gone, I found myself very uncouth all this day for want
thereof.  I supped with the
Captain in his cabin with young Captain Cuttance, and afterwards a
messenger from the King came with a letter, and to go into France, and by
that means we supped again with him at 12 o'clock at night.  This night
the Captain told me that my Lord had appointed me L30 out of the 1000
ducats which the King had given to the ship, at which my heart was very
much joyed.  To bed.  He adhered to
     the cause of the king, and published "Iter Carolinum", being a
     succinct account of the necessitated marches, retreats, and
     sufferings of his Majesty King Charles I., from Jan. 10, 1641, to
     the time of his death in 1648, collected by a daily attendant upon
     his sacred Majesty during all that time: He joined Charles II. in
     exile, and received the reward of his loyalty at the Restoration.
     He died at Whitehall, February 19th, 1676-7, and was buried at
     Stratford-on-Avon, his daughter having married Sir John Clepton of
     that place.]

King at Arms, this morning, for my Lord.  A while after Mr. Thos. Crew and Mr. J. Pickering
(who had staid long enough to make all the world see him to be a fool), took ship for London.
So there now remain no strangers with my Lord but Mr. Hetley,  who had been with us a day before
the King went from us. My Lord and the ship's company down to sermon.  I staid above to write
and look over my new song book, which came last night to me from London in lieu of that that
my Lord had of me.  The officers being all on board, there was not room for me at table, so
I dined in my cabin, where, among other things, Mr. Drum brought me a lobster and a bottle
of oil, instead of a bottle of vinegar, whereby I spoiled my dinner.  Many orders in the ordering
of ships this afternoon.  Late to a sermon.  After that up to the Lieutenant's cabin, where
Mr. Sheply, I, and the Minister supped, and after that I went down to W. Howe's cabin, and
there, with a great deal of pleasure, singing till it was late. When every man to be esteemed chief, and would have pre-eminence among others,
their ducats and courses must not interfere one with another.“ Charity
envieth not.” Envy is the seed of contention, and self-love brings
it forth.

 This morning the Captain did call over
all the men in the ship (not the boys), and give every one of them a ducat of the King's money
that he gave the ship, and the officers according to their quality.  I received in the Captain's
cabin, for my share, sixty ducats.  The rest of the morning busy writing letters.  So was my
Lord that he would not come to dinner.  After dinner to write again in order to sending to
London, but my Lord did not finish his, so we did not send to London to-day.  A great part
of the afternoon at nine-pins with my Lord and Mr. Hetley.  I lost about 4s. Supped with my
Lord, and after that to bed.  At night I had a strange dream of--myself, which I really did,
and having kicked my clothes off, I got cold; and found myself all much wet in the morning,
and had a great deal of pain .  .  .  which made me very melancholy.

29th.  The King's birthday.  Busy all the morning writing letters to London, among the rest
one to Mr. Chetwind to give me an account of the fees due to the Herald for the Order of the
Garter, which my Lord desires to know.  After dinner got all ready and sent away Mr. Cook to
London with a letter and token to my wife.  Among other things my Lord showed me a house that
cost a great deal of money, and is built in so barren and inconvenient a place that my Lord
calls it the fool's house.  After that to supper and then to musique, and so to bed.  The pain
that I have got last night by cold is not yet gone, but troubles me at the time of .  .  .
. This day, it is thought, the King do enter the city of London.

     ["Divers maidens, in behalf of themselves and others, presented a
     petition to the Lord Mayor of London, wherein they pray his Lordship
     to grant them leave and liberty to meet His Majesty on the day of
     his passing through the city; and if their petition be granted, that
     they will all be clad in white waistcoats and crimson petticoats,
     and other ornaments of triumph and rejoicing."-Rugge's Diurnal, May,
     1660.--B.]

30th.  About eight o'clock in the morning the lieutenant came to me to know whether I would
eat a dish of mackerel, newly catched, for my breakfast, which the Captain and we did in the
coach.  All yesterday and to-day I had a great deal of pain .  .  .  and in my back, which
made me afeard.  But it proved nothing but cold, which I took yesterday night. All this morning
making up my accounts, in which I counted that I had made myself now worth about L80, at which
my heart was glad, and blessed God. Many Dover men come and dine with my Lord.  My Lord at
ninepins in the afternoon.  In the afternoon Mr. Sheply told me how my Lord had put me down
for 70 guilders among the money which was given to my Lord's servants, which my heart did much
rejoice at.  My Lord supped alone in his chamber.  Sir R. Stayner supped with us, and among
other things told us how some of his men did grumble that no more of the Duke's money come
to their share and so would not receive any; whereupon he called up those that had taken it,
and gives them three shares apiece more, which was very good, and made good sport among the
seamen.  To bed.

31st.  This day my Lord took physic, and came not out of his chamber.

All the morning making orders.  After dinner a great while below in the great cabin trying
with W. Howe some of Mr. Laws' songs,' particularly that of "What is a kiss," with which we
had a great deal of pleasure. After that to making of orders again.  Captain Sparling of the
Assistance brought me a pair of silk stockings of a light blue, which I was much pleased with.
The Captain and I to supper, and after that a most pleasant walk till to at night with him
upon the deck, it being a fine evening.  My pain was gone again that I had yesterday, blessed
be God. This day the month ends, I in very good health, and all the world in a merry mood because
of the King's coming.  This day I began to teach Mr. Edward; who I find to have a very good
foundation laid for his Latin by Mr. Fuller.  I expect every minute to hear how my poor wife
do.  I find myself in all things well as to body and mind, but troubled for the absence of my wife.

