It was a year after that, there were men of the village of Cappaghtagle sitting by the fire
in a house on the roadside, and Red Hanrahan that was now very thin and worn and his hair very
long and wild, came to the half-door and asked leave to come in and rest himself; and they
bid him welcome because it was Samhain night. He sat down with them, and they gave him a glass
of whiskey out of a quart bottle; and they saw the little inkpot hanging about his neck, and
knew he was a scholar, and asked for stories about the Greeks.

He took the Virgil out of the big pocket of his coat, but the cover was very black and swollen
with the wet, and the page when he opened it was very yellow, but that was no great matter,
for he looked at it like a man that had never learned to read. Some young man that was there
began to laugh at him then, and to ask why did he carry so heavy a book with him when he was
not able to read it.

It vexed Hanrahan to hear that, and he put the Virgil back in his pocket and asked if they
had a pack of cards among them, for cards were better than books. When they brought out the
cards he took them and began to shuffle them, and while he was shuffling them something seemed
to come into his mind, and he put his hand to his face like one that is trying to remember,
and he said: 'Was I ever here before, or where was I on a night like this?' and then of a sudden
he stood up and let the cards fall to the floor, and he said, 'Who was it brought me a message
from Mary Lavelle?'

'We never saw you before now, and we never heard of Mary Lavelle,' said the man of the house.
'And who is she,' he said, 'and what is it you are talking about?'

'It was this night a year ago, I was in a barn, and there were men playing cards, and there
was money on the table, they were pushing it from one to another here and there--and I got
a message, and I was going out of the door to look for my sweetheart that wanted me, Mary Lavelle.'
And then Hanrahan called out very loud: 'Where have I been since then? Where was I for the
whole year?'

'It is hard to say where you might have been in that time,' said the oldest of the men, 'or
what part of the world you may have travelled; and it is like enough you have the dust of many
roads on your feet; for there are many go wandering and forgetting like that,' he said, 'when
once they have been given the touch.'

'That is true,' said another of the men. 'I knew a woman went wandering like that through the
length of seven years; she came back after, and she told her friends she had often been glad
enough to eat the food that was put in the pig's trough. And it is best for you to go to the
priest now,' he said, 'and let him take off you whatever may have been put upon you.'

'It is to my sweetheart I will go, to Mary Lavelle,' said Hanrahan; 'it is too long I have
delayed, how do I know what might have happened her in the length of a year?'

He was going out of the door then, but they all told him it was best for him to stop the night,
and to get strength for the journey; and indeed he wanted that, for he was very weak, and when
they gave him food he eat it like a man that had never seen food before, and one of them said,
'He is eating as if he had trodden on the hungry grass.' It was in the white light of the morning
he set out, and the time seemed long to him till he could get to Mary Lavelle's house. But
when he came to it, he found the door broken, and the thatch dropping from the roof, and no
living person to be seen. And when he asked the neighbours what had happened her, all they
could say was that she had been put out of the house, and had married some labouring man, and
they had gone looking for work to London or Liverpool or some big place. And whether she found
a worse place or a better he never knew, but anyway he never met with her or with news of her
again.

THE TWISTING OF THE ROPE.

Hanrahan was walking the roads one time near Kinvara at the fall of day, and he heard the sound
of a fiddle from a house a little way off the roadside. He turned up the path to it, for he
never had the habit of passing by any place where there was music or dancing or good company,
without going in. The man of the house was standing at the door, and when Hanrahan came near
he knew him and he said: 'A welcome before you, Hanrahan, you have been lost to us this long
time.' But the woman of the house came to the door and she said to her husband: 'I would be
as well pleased for Hanrahan not to come in to-night, for he has no good name now among the
priests, or with women that mind themselves, and I wouldn't wonder from his walk if he has
a drop of drink taken.' But the man said, 'I will never turn away Hanrahan of the poets from
my door,' and with that he bade him enter.

There were a good many neighbours gathered in the house, and some of them remembered Hanrahan;
but some of the little lads that were in the corners had only heard of him, and they stood
up to have a view of him, and one of them said: 'Is not that Hanrahan that had the school,
and that was brought away by Them?' But his mother put her hand over his mouth and bade him
be quiet, and not be saying things like that. 'For Hanrahan is apt to grow wicked,' she said,
'if he hears talk of that story, or if anyone goes questioning him.' One or another called
out then, asking him for a song, but the man of the house said it was no time to ask him for
a song, before he had rested himself; and he gave him whiskey in a glass, and Hanrahan thanked
him and wished him good health and drank it off.

The fiddler was tuning his fiddle for another dance, and the man of the house said to the young
men, they would all know what dancing was like when they saw Hanrahan dance, for the like of
it had never been seen since he was there before. Hanrahan said he would not dance, he had
better use for his feet now, travelling as he was through the five provinces of Ireland. Just
as he said that, there came in at the half-door Oona, the daughter of the house, having a few
bits of bog deal from Connemara in her arms for the fire. She threw them on the hearth and
the flame rose up, and showed her to be very comely and smiling, and two or three of the young
men rose up and asked for a dance. But Hanrahan crossed the floor and brushed the others away,
and said it was with him she must dance, after the long road he had travelled before he came
to her. And it is likely he said some soft word in her ear, for she said nothing against it,
and stood out with him, and there were little blushes in her cheeks. Then other couples stood
up, but when the dance was going to begin, Hanrahan chanced to look down, and he took notice
of his boots that were worn and broken, and the ragged grey socks showing through them; and
he said angrily it was a bad floor, and the music no great things, and he sat down in the dark
place beside the hearth. But if he did, the girl sat down there with him.

The dancing went on, and when that dance was over another was called for, and no one took much
notice of Oona and Red Hanrahan for a while, in the corner where they were. But the mother
grew to be uneasy, and she called to Oona to come and help her to set the table in the inner
room. But Oona that had never refused her before, said she would come soon, but not yet, for
she was listening to whatever he was saying in her ear. The mother grew yet more uneasy then,
and she would come nearer them, and let on to be stirring the fire or sweeping the hearth,
and she would listen for a minute to hear what the poet was saying to her child. And one time
she heard him telling about white-handed Deirdre, and how she brought the sons of Usnach to
their death; and how the blush in her cheeks was not so red as the blood of kings' sons that
was shed for her, and her sorrows had never gone out of mind; and he said it was maybe the
memory of her that made the cry of the plover on the bog as sorrowful in the ear of the poets
as the keening of young men for a comrade. And there would never have been that memory of her,
he said, if it was not for the poets that had put her beauty in their songs. And the next time
she did not well understand what he was saying, but as far as she could hear, it had the sound
of poetry though it was not rhymed, and this is what she heard him say: 'The sun and the moon
are the man and the girl, they are my life and your life, they are travelling and ever travelling
through the skies as if under the one hood. It was God made them for one another. He made your
life and my life before the beginning of the world, he made them that they might go through
the world, up and down, like the two best dancers that go on with the dance up and down the
long floor of the barn, fresh and laughing, when all the rest are tired out and leaning against
the wall.'

The old woman went then to where her husband was playing cards, but he would take no notice
of her, and then she went to a woman of the neighbours and said: 'Is there no way we can get
them from one another?' and without waiting for an answer she said to some young men that were
talking together: 'What good are you when you cannot make the best girl in the house come out
and dance with you? And go now the whole of you,' she said, 'and see can you bring her away
from the poet's talk.' But Oona would not listen to any of them, but only moved her hand as
if to send them away. Then they called to Hanrahan and said he had best dance with the girl
himself, or let her dance with one of them. When Hanrahan heard what they were saying he said:
'That is so, I will dance with her; there is no man in the house must dance with her but myself.'

He stood up with her then, and led her out by the hand, and some of the young men were vexed,
and some began mocking at his ragged coat and his broken boots. But he took no notice, and
Oona took no notice, but they looked at one another as if all the world belonged to themselves
alone. But another couple that had been sitting together like lovers stood out on the floor
at the same time, holding one another's hands and moving their feet to keep time with the music.
But Hanrahan turned his back on them as if angry, and in place of dancing he began to sing,
and as he sang he held her hand, and his voice grew louder, and the mocking of the young men
stopped, and the fiddle stopped, and there was nothing heard but his voice that had in it the
sound of the wind.

And while he was singing it Oona moved nearer to him, and the colour had gone from her cheek,
and her eyes were not blue now, but grey with the tears that were in them, and anyone that
saw her would have thought she was ready to follow him there and then from the west to the
east of the world.

But one of the young men called out: 'Where is that country he is singing about? Mind yourself,
Oona, it is a long way off, you might be a long time on the road before you would reach to
it.' And another said: 'It is not to the Country of the Young you will be going if you go with
him, but to Mayo of the bogs.' Oona looked at him then as if she would question him, but he
raised her hand in his hand, and called out between singing and shouting: 'It is very near
us that country is, it is on every side; it may be on the bare hill behind it is, or it may
be in the heart of the wood.' And he said out very loud and clear: 'In the heart of the wood;
oh, death will never find us in the heart of the wood. And will you come with me there, Oona?'
he said.

