It is to the Critical Faculty that art, poetry, and music appeal, and make their thought-suggestions.
We do not enjoy music because of the noise, but because of the thoughts suggested by it--we
float upon these emotion-thoughts (we may float low, we may float high, and do not know to
where; but it is somewhere where we cannot get without the music), so we say we love the music;
but it is the emotion-thoughts we love. 

Solomon's favorite and had been wearing were named because they deserved it. Pharaoh's daughter,
who was, no doubt, Meneftá II, UOM-anhet called, that is, Smash-hearts. Solomon inspired her first love,
deep and soft. When God communicates
Himself to the soul, she lives in a manner never previously conceived of, reaching an experience
of living in which every perfection is present to her as Being there in such unlimited abundance
that the soul is overwhelmed by it and must fall back to less, because of insupportable excess
of Perfections. This perfection of living is given, and is withdrawn, outside of her own will.
Which is the more sane and reasonable--for the soul to think, I have invented and originated
a new and perfectly satisfying form of living; or for the soul to conclude that she has been
admitted to the re-encounter of perfect- or Celestial-living? In this living are happenings
which cannot be communicated, or even indicated to others, because they reach beyond words,
beyond all or any other experience, beyond any possible previous imagination or expression
of mind, beyond all particularisation; it is these occasions of experience which the Critical
Faculty regards as being encounters with the Supreme Spirit, because they are complete; nothing
is wanting; they afford life at its perfection point--a stupendous Felicity, and that Repose
in bliss for which all souls secretly long. It is the meeting of the Wisher with the Wished,
of Desire with the Desired: and yet, being that which it is--unthinkable Fulfilment--it is
above all, or any, Wishes, and beyond Desire; it can be known, but not named.

By these experiences the knowledge of the soul becomes enlightened two ways: she knows what
bliss is; she knows the full calamity of life away from God--in flesh, in this world: not that
flesh is not a wonderful Idea, not that the world is not greatly to be admired for its beauties,
but the reawakened spirit desires spirit-living, cannot be pleased with earth-living, cannot
be satisfied with less than God Himself. So, then, the logical consequence is that this world
becomes a place we desire to take leave of as soon as may be. Life here becomes a punishment:
not that Perfect Love desires to punish, but that the soul now knows that any form of life
in which she is restricted from continual access to Him is a disaster, a profound grief.

XV

If the soul looks to God to comfort her, asks for His help, and gets it--and since communication
with God is dependent upon some degree of like to like,--it follows that the soul must maintain
a readiness to "give" to fellow-souls: to fail in this is to fail in any sort of resemblance
to God. Hence we see how carefully Christ enjoined upon us to "Give to them that ask": and
in no niggardly way either, but wholeheartedly, for "God loveth the cheerful giver."

If we say that we apprehend God by that which is not Mind, what reason have we for saying that
it is not Reason which receives Him? Because for this living which God's touch causes us to
share with Himself we find that Space, Infinity, and Eternity are required and Reason stands,
and remains, uncomprehending and dumbfounded before all three. It is Spirit, the flash-point
of the soul, which receives and transmits and which lives this living. As we have an heredity
of flesh so we have also an heredity of Spirit which of its own nature comprehends the ways
of God and the mode of God's living. In High Contemplation we find that if Reason attempts
activity, nothing is consummated: she must submerge herself and wait: soon Reason discovers
the wherefore of this--her activity is not the activity of That Other. Only by that which is
like in activity can That Other be received: this "like" is not herself: finally she comes
to know this "like" as a higher part of the soul--Spirit. When Spirit has received and given
it to the soul, then it is afterwards the part of Reason to attack from every side that which
has been received, to digest it, absorb it, and share it, in fact though not in act. According
to the health and strength of Reason so we shall successfully deal with and use that with which
the Spirit presents us. By comparison with the magnificent Spirit-Activity or Spirit-Intelligence
the Reason is limited and frail as a new-born babe: this is no humiliation to Reason, since
she should not be expected to accomplish that which is not her part.

Why do not all men apprehend God? It is very questionable if all men desire to do so, because
in the recesses of each man's soul lies the consciousness that there will be some great price
to pay.

But beyond this there arises the question, Is it desirable, price or no price, that all souls
should come while still in flesh to immediate knowledge of, and contact with, God; and after
long and close thinking the experienced soul will answer No, and Yes. No, in so far as the
apprehension of the Godhead is concerned; Yes, and most vitally Yes, for Christians, in so
far as Communion and Contact with Christ is concerned. Why this distinction? Because the apprehension
of the Godhead is beyond the requirements of salvation and redemption, and the world and flesh
were created for those purposes. Though there is no limit to the heights to which the soul
may aspire, and all souls are invited eventually to behold the Face of God, if so be they shall
be able to prepare themselves to endure Him, there are to a soul still in flesh the most terrible
dangers in knowing the Fullness of God even so far as His Fullness may be Known to Flesh: never
perhaps in all her history is the soul in such danger as she is after coming (in flesh) to
the apprehension of the Godhead: and this danger may extend in an acute degree over a period
of many years and can never be said to cease altogether. The Soul Knows and feels, when in
its acute stage, this horrible danger without comprehending its exact cause and nature, but
it has about it the feeling that a man might have standing balanced on a narrow pinnacle. Unapproachable,
untouchable only so long as he remains upon the summit, the eyes of a thousand enemies watch
for his smallest descent: they watch day and night. 

VI

How to resist the temptation here how much more expensive D. Juan
Fresco is puffed and proud, and what you put plump, well paid and
given the eyebrows have been peeled decoding and reading the inscriptions
and papyri manuscripts from which is taken from this story?

For it is stated that a bermejino, for within bermejino was Mutileder, as was Vescio Villabermeja
then, rivals Solomon comes to making brilliant and extraordinary see the role that reading followeth.

Mutileder
not discouraged to learn that he was in the harem Echeloría Solomon ordered before stay in Jerusalem,
spy opportune moment, and as soon as they submit, grab it by the forelock, the pretty girl
wresting from the hands of the Wise King. Thought why not make slightest damage to Solomon.
Mutileder was too monarchical, and the king, as king and his science
infused and other virtues, he instilled respect.

Solomon also was not to blame nor had any Mutileder offended. He had accepted the gift that
had brought him, and had given proof in good taste to accept and store.

Sometimes conceived Mutileder some flattering hope. I imagined that had to mourn Echeloría he
and Solomon had to say, with all courtesy and finesse, that did not love him because he loved
to another and wisdom was that Solomon, who was kind to women, and so polite and condescending
have consented to the idols of the land of each of them should not
be fierce with Echeloría, but not well knew that his idol was Mutileder,
had to give up their claims.

Mutileder came to descry as likely to make the King look to deliver a the girl, and even that
may be smoothed to be best man.

The strength, perseverance and endurance Echeloría had to move all this and more, generous
spirit of Solomon. What mattered to this great King a woman more or less when had in his harem queens
seven hundred, eight hundred concubines, and infinite number of princesses?

Then He comes.

And when He comes the Reason does not receive Him, but that certain small part, little more
than a point in the soul receives Him.

Apart from the joy of it, what is the true value of ecstasy to him to whom it is granted? It
raises him above Faith into Certitude. The peace and strength given by Certitude are such that
Joy is neither here nor there, the soul can wait for it, because, no matter what may afterwards
happen to such a one, he remembers, and remains once and for all aware, that God Is, and that
He can be Known: he learns also a new knowledge, but cares nothing for this because it is knowledge
or because it is power, but because it brings him nearer to his God.

Having once learnt the knowledge that comes by ecstasy alone, truth to tell, the soul would
be content to receive no further ecstasy in flesh; but, intoxicated with love and worship,
she best enjoys herself doing all the giving, for when He comes and gives He bursts down all
her doors and, under the awful stress of Him, the soul hardly knows how to endure either Himself
or herself.

Life in this world is a life for spiritual weaklings. Our eternal Self is an Intelligence,
a Desire, and a Will, and the life we live with it is no idle, torpid, confined living such
as we have here, but is a living in Liberty, without limit, restriction, fatigue, or satiety;
in it word thoughts and thinking are superseded; by comparison to it even the highest thought-achievements
of men, their noblest aspirations, appear like the sand-castles of children. Ravished at such
further revelations of the Genius of God, the soul at last knows satisfaction. It requires
perfection in order to be permanently operative, because only in perfection is Freedom found,
and because for the living of it nothing can remain but such Essentials of the soul as cannot
be dispersed. It is a measureless Generosity and an ecstasy of Receiving and Giving. To say
that purity and perfection are required for this living is no mere arbitrary dictum, but a
scientific fact: the impure, imperfect soul finds herself unable in perfect liberty and freedom
to expand to interaction with the Divine Activity. When the process of Return is sufficiently
completed and, being still in flesh, we enter for a brief time this living, Reason, Pain and
Evil, Yesterday and To-morrow disappear. Reason is gathered up into, and superseded by, the
spiritual and wordless Intelligence: Pain and Evil, their part and work accomplished, are dispersed
and banished into the mists of darkness.

So the soul may learn even from this world something of the mystery of the Depths of God. She
may enter into the happiness of Union with the Three in One: the One Whom in a state of glory
yet to come she may Behold. But beyond This of Him which He will allow her to Behold, beyond
This of Him in which she may repose in bliss, and beyond this Repose which He wills her to
know of Him, He shows her that yet more of Him Is which He will share--heights of Felicity
beyond all measure, holding the soul till she must pray Him to release her, or she will perish--reeling
depths of rapture in a mystery of light; bliss beyond bliss for that lover who shall venture--all
Eternity unfolding in fulfilment.

And yet remains That of Him which wills no reciprocity, but shares Himself with Himself. So
peace Is. And so, even in not giving, He yet does give that which is most precious, for without
He Himself in His forever hidden depths were Peace, His creatures could neither know nor have
peace.

Looking into herself, what does the soul perceive? Apart from sins and virtues she perceives
two things--caprice and free-will. Neither are of her own creation, but are essentials of her
being. After
Solomon loved madly Anahid, morning star, daughter of the King of Armenia. Refers to, rejected it,
had to return to their homeland, where he was a son of Solomon, from whom Abagaro famous, whom Christ
wrote a letter and sent his effigy. After Solomon loved no less madness Leliti, Night, princess
of Ethiopia. After passionately loved puffs, who brought from India the first-Hebrew Tyrian ships
were there. Angels, though they are a glory of God's heaven, cannot alone satisfy all the needs
of their Creator: they have neither sex nor caprice, nor the mystery which joins hands with
it. So He creates the soul, and He gives her an heredity of Himself in the flash-point of the
soul, and He gives her sex and caprice and free-will to deny herself to Him if she choose;
and in her caprice she goes out and away from Him, and when she would return she cannot, because
in infidelity she has dropped from perfection. Disillusioned by her unfaithful wanderings and
horribly pained, the soul longs for Him, and He longs for her. Oh, how soon all this was changed to bitterness when he heard Mutileder
what was said in Jerusalem public streets and squares!

To find out what they said should take it back and get into some
explanations. And all this suffering to Himself He bears in order to make
good the wilful sinning and the misery of the wayward soul. So He brings home the soul, not
by force but by love--that love by which He is at once the Life of everything and everything
is the life of Him.

Absence from God is Pain, and everlastingly will be Pain in varying degrees. Are there souls
who have never left Him? Undoubtedly, but they know nothing of this world. Are we perhaps distressed
at this multiplicity of worlds and souls? We need not be, for they are a necessity both of
God and of ourselves; for God to Be Himself He must give Himself, and who can receive Him?
Not even the greatest of all the Angels can alone bear to endure Him? Only into a vast multiplicity
of individuals can God pour and expend Himself to the fullness of His desire, the One to the
many. Each individually receives from Him, and each individually and collectively--the many
to the One--returns Him those burning favours which are in Celestial-living.

