NATALIE;

or,

A GEM AMONG THE SEA-WEEDS

By

FERNA VALE.

1859.

To thee, my darling Hattie, I dedicate the Sea-Flower would that this casket contained for
such as thou, a purer gem.

PREFACE.

In writing the following pages the author has spent pleasant hours, which perhaps might have
been less profitably employed: if anything of interest be found among them, it is well,--and,
should any be led to take up their Cross in meekness and humility, searching out the path that
leads the wanderer home, it is indeed well.

NATALIE.

CHAPTER I.

THE SEA-FLOWER.

  "What was it that I loved so well about my childhood's home?
   It was the wide and wave-lashed shore, the black rocks crowned with foam!
   It was the sea-gull's flapping wing, all trackless in its flight,
   Its screaming note, that welcomed on the fierce and stormy night!
   The wild heath had its flowers and moss, the forest had its trees,
   Which, bending to the evening wind, made music in the breeze;
   But earth,--ha! ha! I laugh e'en now,--earth had no charms for me,
   Nor scene half bright enough to win my young heart from the sea.
   No! 't was the ocean, vast and deep, the fathomless, the free,--
   The mighty rushing waters, that were ever dear to me!"

        ELIZA COOK.

  "But the goodly pearl which the merchant bought,
     And for which his all he gave,
   Was a purer pearl than will e'er be brought
     From under the FOAMING wave."

        H. F. GOULD.

"Massa Grobener! Massa Grobener! Please, sar, look here! De good Lord hab left his mitest ob
angels here on de beach; and please, sar, step low or de wee bit will take to its wings and
fly away. De good Lord be praised! but old Bingo hab found many a bright sea-weed in his day,
but dis am de sweetest sea-flower ob de whole."

And as he spoke, the little one stretched out its tiny arms toward the poor old black man and
gave a faint moan. Captain Grosvenor, who had now come up with the negro, was no less surprised
than had been old Vingo, at discovering, among the fresh, bright sea-weed, an infant some eight
months old. The babe was carefully lashed into a large wooden trough or bowl, and a canvas
firmly stretched over the top, permitting only the head and arms to remain exposed, and judging
from the dripping condition of the worthy little sea-craft, it could not have been many moments
since it had come to anchor on the smooth, hard beach; probably the now receding waves had
borne the precious burden to this most welcome harbor--"whereby hangs a tale."

"De good Lord be praised, massa! but dis am de most curous ob all sea-ve'cles that eber trabers
de great waters! I sure it must be a speint from de great scripture ark massa read about in
de good book; or may be it am one ob those old-time chariots, fiery chariots, we sings about;
only it so moist around here, it put de fire all out and leabe de chariot. Or I tink it may
be one ob dose machines Bingo used to see in old slabe-massa's church, hung up ober de minister's
head, to make de good psalms or de prayers go de right way, and I don't remember which; old
Bingo always retained a bery bad memory, eber since before he was a child; but I tink dey used
to call it a sound board, though it was full ob cracks."

Ah! poor fellow, had you seen that heart-rending look of despair, mingled with sweet resignation,
upon the face of that mother! had you seen the glistening tear in the eye of that noble father,
as, but a few hours before, they consigned their idolized child to the mercies of the deep;
had you heard that prayer to God, if it might be his will, to spare their darling from an ocean-grave,
your great heart would have been, if possible, kindled to a greater love for that helpless
little one!

Captain Grosvenor, after having carefully taken the child from the grotesque looking craft,
which had proved so trustworthy a sailor, and wiped the drops of spray from its little face,
wrapped it in a large bandana, and gave it to the faithful Vingo, while he took his glass and
scanned the distant horizon; for well did he know, though even at noon-day, that one more unfortunate
bark had gone down near that dread "Nantucket shoal," upon which so many noble hearts have
found a watery grave. "I see nothing," said the Captain, "nothing, not even a passing sail;
which is quite uncommon at this season, when so many vessels are constantly passing and repassing
our island; not even the light-boat do I see, which is probably owing to a fog coming in from
the sea, as yet imperceptible to us here. Poor fellows! I fear they have gone down without
a soul to help them! It seems hard when there are so many stout hearts and ready arms here,
willing to risk their lives in the attempt to save. Those shoals, Vingo, are the only unkind
thing there is about our cherished island; but the will of God be done. Truly his ways are
unsearchable."

"Den you tinks, massa, dis little sea-flower was left here trough mistake, by de Lord?"

"It most assuredly was left here by the Lord, Vingo, but not by mistake. The fact is, my boy,
there has been a wreck off to the east south-east of the island; probably some vessel has mistaken
her bearings, or, being unacquainted with the coast, has run on to the shoals and gone to pieces;
and this infant was made fast to the first floatable object that could be found, and with a
mother's dying prayer for a rudder, and the hand of Him who guides us all at the helm, she
has come to us here; and with eyes of heaven's own blue, she silently asks for that protection
which shall not be withheld from her so long as it shall be within my power to give. And now,
Vingo, boy, you may turn the horse's head for the town."

"Yes, massa."

And though some fifty years had passed over the old negro's head, he sprang with the agility
of boyhood's days; although, as the poor fellow often remarked, "he had a wonderful constitution
for enduring rest," the thought of his good missus's surprise, when she should learn of their
morning's adventure, gave him new life, and he fairly danced about the beach for joy. Seated
in the spring-cart, Captain Grosvenor took the babe in his arms, that had now fallen into a
quiet sleep, while Vingo, perching himself first on one foot and then the other, to keep his
balance, gathered up the reins, and all started for home.

"I am tinking, massa, dat my missus be quite ober-much-come at de sight of dis little sea-flower."

"Yes, boy; yes, sea-flower indeed. I have travelled the wide world from stem to stern, but
never have I met with such an emblem of innocence before." And though the hardy sea-captain
had spent the greater part of his life among the whales, he stooped down and pressed his lips
to the brow of the unconscious sleeper.

"Luff off there a little, Vingo; keep to the right; these bare commons are not the easiest
grounds to ride over, though with a light spring-cart like this one can navigate with some
degree of comfort. The broad ocean is the place, after all. Give me the old ship Tantalizer,
and I am at home. Take the glass, Vingo, and see if you can make out whether the steamboat
is in sight or not."

"Cannot eben make de staff, massa. Ah! now I sees him; de flag is up, old Massachusetts am
in sight."

"She will be in early to-day. Travels decently fast, considering she is all out of joint. I
hope we shall get a new steamer some day; then we may keep posted with what is going on in
the outer world."

"Yes, massa, people tink we a piece ob de continent den."

An hour's ride brought our worthy captain to his own door, where stood Mrs. Grosvenor, with
her son Harry, their only child, of seven years, awaiting him.

"You have made a long stay at the shore this morning, my husband; but if these little excursions
will deter you from making a longer voyage, I will not complain."

"Yes, wife, yes; but for a peace offering I have brought to you a gem from among the sea-weeds."

"My dear husband, where can you have found this child?" and tears were in the eyes of the lady
as she received the little unknown from his arms.

"Is it for you? to be yours, mother? Mother, may it stay with us here?" asked Harry; and in
his delight he stumbled over old Neptune, who was stretched at full length upon the floor,
and the two went rolling over and over, first one up and then the other, till finally the boy
came off victorious, seated astride the animal's back, who marched up to Mrs. Grosvenor's side,
where they both remained, eyeing the little stranger in silence.

"The child's dress denotes no common birth," remarked the Captain, as his lady disrobed it
of its rich lace dress, saturated with the salt seawater. "And the gold bands; are there no
marks?--nothing, by which we may gain the least clue of its history?"

"I see nothing; and it is well; for my heart already yearns towards the little creature, and
in my selfish human nature, I can't but hope that we may be able to keep her for our own."
And as she spoke she pressed the clasp of the band, and, behold! the miniature likeness of
a lady was brought to view. The foster mother gazed upon those features, as if it were the
face of an angel.

"I cannot have the heart to wish to retain her child! To deprive that mother of anything that
can give her pain to lose. Would I could ask her to forgive my cruel thoughts; forgive the
desire to retain this her gem. But I know she has gone to her home in the skies; she was too
pure for earth. Yes, this must be the mother, the child is so like her."

"The same features, the same expression; and," said the Captain, "I will use every means of
finding out if there is one left of that ill-fated crew to tell the tale. It will probably
be reported in a few days, if there are any missing vessels, either from our coasts or foreign
ports. In the meantime I will take care to have this discovery registered at head-quarters,
and then if we can discover no trace of her parentage we may have her for our own."

"Have her for our own! Nep, do you hear that? We are to have a new sister!" shouted the boy;
and Nep, as if comprehending his young master's words, laid his great honest face on the feet
of the child, and caressed her.

"Please, missus, don't make little Sea-flower too fresh; she be pining for de sea;" remarked
Vingo, as Mrs. Grosvenor proceeded to bathe the child in cool fresh water; and having brought
out the baby-clothes worn by Harry, she was soon, by the aid of a little new milk, made comfortable,
and, creeping down after old Nep, sat with her hands buried in his shaggy coat, crowing with
delight. The lights at Captain Grosvenor's burned long into the night of that eventful day,
of the discovery of the Sea-flower, while he related to his wife how they had found the little
one among the sea-weeds, and in forming plans for her future adoption, should nothing be learned
of her parentage, and no friends come to claim the child.

Soon after the commencement of our story, a fearful storm swept the New England coast. 'Twould
seem as if the rage of the storm-king knew no bounds; and many hearts there were made desolate
in that long-to-be-remembered September gale. Fragments of wrecks came ashore on different
parts of the island, together with casks, chests, rigging, stoven boats, etc., which were picked
up in various places, and by various characters. Some would watch eagerly for these trophies
of destruction, and with grasping hand seize upon them, viewing the storm as sent for their
own particular benefit; increasing their worldly goods, regardless of others' woes. While some
there were, who turned away with a heart sick at the scene of devastation, yet submissively
bowing to His will, "who holds the waters in his hand." Wreck upon wreck was reported. The
total loss of vessels from all parts of the world was very great, which only served to increase
the mystery in regard to the unknown, which went down 'neath a calm noon-day sky. Days and
months passed on, and still no tidings; till finally they came to look upon the loved one as
their own.

The child grew in strength and beauty, and was a source of great amusement to them all. Old
Vingo would delight to make one of his "squantums," as he called it, to the shore; and with
master Harry, who was now taking his first lessons in driving, (a point once attained, boyhood
thinks to gain no higher) and Sea-flower in his arms; with Nep, who is determined to be "head
horse," bounding off in the distance, is happiness enough for the negro, and his white teeth
glisten in the bright sunshine like so many African pearls, as he jabbers away to Sea-flower,
as if she were comprehending the whole. But 'twas enough for Vingo, that she in reply to his
half hour's remarks, would put out her hand toward the blue waters, and with eyes dilated with
wonderment, would say, "Tee! Indo, Tee!"

There on the beach they would have a fine race with the surf, Vingo following with the child
the receding wave, and then, as it came in with a roar from the sea, he would run as if pursued
by a foe, sometimes the spray dashing up all around them, much to the joy of the Sea-flower,
her merry laugh according strangely with the music of the waters. Harry amused himself for
a while, throwing the bits of drift-wood into the water, that he might see old Newfoundland
dash in and combat with the waves, to secure the prize, which he never failed to do; but wearying
of this, he came and took his seat by the side of his sister, and commenced whittling diligently
on an old piece of plank.

"Vingo, do you think my father will ever go to sea again?"

"I don't know, young massa; but why you tink ob dat?"

"O, I have often thought I would like to go with my father away over the great ocean. I long
to see more of the world; and I often think of the time when I shall be a man, and have a ship
of my own. I never hear of a ship arrived at the bar, but it sends a thrill of delight over
me, and I watch the sailors as they come on shore after a three years' voyage, and think how
happy they must be, though they look as if they had met with the rubbers. O, I know I shall
be a sailor boy! there is something noble about the very name."

"Missus be berry sorry to hear you talk so," said Vingo.

"I know my mother would be very sorry to have me go to sea, for I remember how sad she looked
for many days after father went away, though I was but a little boy. And I remember my father
took me in his arms, and told me I must be a good boy, and take care of mother until he came
back. But now you would be here, Vingo, to see that my mother knew no want."

"Yes, de good Lord be praised for sending good massa Grobener to take me away from old slabe
massa. I gets so filled wid liberty sometimes, dat I mistakes myself for white man."

"Well, you are as good as a white man, any day; but tell me, Vingo, if you have ever been much
on the water?"

"Not a great deal; I used to take old massa wid his children out for a sail sometimes, and
den I hab a slight recollection ob being brought from a great way off; but dat must hab been
before I come to be berry great. De pleasantest sail I eber take was when I leabe old Berginny
in de good Tantalizer; and I swings my hat at old slabe massa on de bank, and asks him if he
don't wish he as free as dis individual. Dat was but a few years ago; den you wear little dress
like Sea-flower, and now you talk 'bout going to sea! Well, dat am de way wid you sea-fish here."

As the three sat on the beach, enjoying the morning breeze, Harry observed a gentleman not
far off, who appeared to be taking sketches of the scenery around, and occasionally would give
a glance towards where our little party were sitting, somewhat to the disquietude of Nep, who
came and stood sentinel, as much as to say, "I will protect you;" but finding the stranger
disposed to do them no harm, he composed himself for a nap. The whittling process being now
finished, Harry produced what he termed a "two-master," the which, Vingo declared it would
be no sin to worship, as it was not in the likeness of anything.

"She is not a very polished looking craft, to be sure, but I know she is a sailer, for all
that. At any rate, she shall be of some service;" and he seized old Nep by the ear, and making
fast his dogship to the little ark, he carefully seated the Sea-flower at the helm, and with
Vingo's rainbow bandana flying from the mast-head, they were soon under full headway. Either
Nep being proud of his charge, or the little one mistaking the thoughtful face, lit up with
the glow of enthusiasm, of the stranger, for a beacon light; they came up with him, who called
to Harry to join them.

"What is your name, my son?"

"Harry Grosvenor, sir," answered the boy, drawing himself up to his full height.

"And what have you here?" added he. "I suppose you came along as supercargo; pray tell me with
what are you freighted?"

"The Sea-flower is my only freight, sir."

"And God grant that you may always find as valuable! but tell me, is this angelic child your
sister?"

"Yes, sir, my sister, and we all love her very much; we could not be without her, for we might
forget to thank our Father for his kindness to us, if we had no Sea-flower to remind us of Heaven."

"So young, and can appreciate so rare a gift," mused the gentleman; "childhood, indeed, is
the first to discover purity;" and the eye of the stranger grew moist, and the melancholy smile
which sat upon his countenance gave place to the shadows of grief. "What is the child's name?"
asked he.

"We call her Sea-flower, sir."

"'Tis a peculiar, sweet name; but has she no other?"

"We have always called her by that name. Mother says she came to us from God, and he loves
the little flowers; he smiles upon each one, as it holds up its little head, all shining with
pearly tears wept by the stars. But do you not love my sister? I did not think she could make
you sad."

"Yes, yes, my son; take good care of her, be a true brother to her, ever. Many long years have
passed since my own little Natalie played in my arms, but they are gone;" and the kind gentleman
gathered his sketching instruments to depart.

That night, as Mrs. Grosvenor talked with her children, as was her wont, of the good Father
who loves us all, Harry related the interview with the stranger gentleman; and in the prayer
which followed he was not forgotten. The Sea-flower folded her tiny hands meekly, while from
the windows of her soul went up the love she could not speak. As that faithful mother sat meditating
upon the story of Harry in regard to the stranger, which she had related to her husband, Captain
Grosvenor remarked,--"It is just one year to-day when our dear child came to us, being also
my birthday; but instead of adding a year to my life, it seems to me old Father time has made
a mistake, and made a deduction of a year. Just one year to-day, and she is the Sea-flower
still. Yes, she will ever be the Sea-flower to us; yet I suppose she must have a name more
in keeping with the ideas of the world. What was the name of the lost one the sad gentleman
mused of?"

"He spoke of the long time ago, before his own Natalie had gone."

"Poor man! Each life must have its portion of bitterness. Natalie,--I like the sound; it reminds
me of my home on the waters. With your consent, my wife, the Christian name of the child shall
be Natalie, for she came to us from the sea."

CHAPTER II.

THE ISLAND HOME.

  "Long may this ocean-gem be bright,
     And long may it be fair,
   In Freedom's pure and blessed light,
     And Virtue's hallowed air!
   While still across its ocean bound,
   Shall e'er be borne the truthful sound,
   Our island home! our island home!
     We love our island home!"

        MRS. J. H. HANAFORD.
   God bless the sea-beat island!
     And grant for evermore,
   That Charity and Freedom dwell,
     As now, upon the shore!"

        J. G. WHITTIER.

Gentle reader, pause a little, and let us for a few moments turn our thoughts toward that Island
of the sea, upon which it was the fate of our heroine, through the guidance of a divine providence,
to find a home in the bosoms of those whose hearts' beatings were of love for our unknown.
Yea, love ever encircleth purity.

Properly, this chapter, descriptive of the Island of Nantucket, should have been our first;
but had that been the case, alas, for the simple tale of Natalie! How many would have passed
it by with but one thought, and that thought invariably,--Nantucket! pooh! a fish story, strikingly
embellished with ignorance. And you may indeed discover in the feebleness of my unpretending
pen, much that is food for critics; yet give not a thought of ridicule to Nantucket's favored
ones, for it is not for me to enlist under her banner of superiority of intellect. To the many
questions which I know you have it in your heart to ask, as touching the civilization, etc.,
of these islanders, I do not reply, as I might be tempted under other circumstances to do,
that it would be advisable to procure a passport before landing on those shores, lest one might
stand in danger of being harpooned by the natives; but rather let me, in as correct a light
as I may, set forth to those who have heretofore known but little of those who inhabit that
triangular bit of land in the wide ocean, which, when we were six year olds, we passed over
on our maps with the thought, I wonder if they have Sundays there.

Situated nearly one hundred miles, in a south-easterly course from the city of Boston, and
about thirty miles from the nearest point of main land, Nantucket lifts her proud head from
out the broad Atlantic, whose waters, even when lashed to madness, have been kind to her. And
now, on this oppressive July morning, let us throw aside our cares, and come out from our daily
round of duties, where we have been scaling with our eyes the tall brick barriers which shut
out God's beautiful blue sky and sunshine. Yes, let us off, anywhere, to get one glimpse of
Nature. On board the good steamer "Island Home," a two hours' sail carries us over that distance
which separates Cape Cod from Nantucket. If you have not passed most of your days among the
Connecticut hills, you pay little attention to that "green-eyed monster," who considers it
a part of his duty to prepare the uninitiated for the good time coming. Arrived at the bar,
which stretches itself across the entrance to the harbor, our first impressions take to themselves
the forms of sundry venerable windmills, church spires and towers, representing various orders
of architecture; but that which strikes us most is the scarcity of shipping, not more than
a dozen vessels lying at the wharves. In former times Nantucket numbered as many whaleships
belonging to her port, as did any town on our seaboard. Indeed, she was built up from the produce
of the ocean, and carried the palm for years as being first among the American whale fisheries;
but her number has dwindled away, till not one-fourth of those homeward-bound ships are destined
for the port of Nantucket.

The town, we find, is situated on the northern shore of the island, at the harbor's head. The
houses are compact, and most of them built of wood, with little regard to beauty; though some
few residences there are, of modern style, which do credit to their designers; but the greater
number speak only of antiquity, with their shingled sides; and you will rarely see a house
that has not a "walk" upon its roof, with which they could by no means dispense, as in case
of ship-wreck near the island, the roofs of the whole town will be alive with men, women, and
children, spyglass in hand. Besides the town there are but one or two small villages, "Polpis,"
and the far-famed "Siaconset," or "Sconset," as it is usually termed,--numbering some four
dozen houses. This village is seven and one-half miles from the town, affording a delightful
place of recreation for families from town, who, as the summer holidays come round, harness
up old Dobbin, and prepare for a six weeks' "siesta." If, by reason of the great financial
pressure, you find you have not sufficient pocket-money to take you for a short tour to Europe,
come to "Sconset;" it is a glorious place! take a stroll along that grand old beach, and watch
the moon rise from out the ocean; then go to your comfortable seven-by-nine lodgings, which
seems like a palace, draw the comfortable rug about you, and fall asleep, with old Ocean for
a lullaby, to dream (if your waking hours are fortunately of that bent) of some old deserted
castle, "Salem witchcraft," or a lone "Grace Pool," attendant within the attic's most remote
recesses.

The face of the island is level, so much so that the flat, bare commons resemble somewhat our
western prairies; and with the exception of the cliffs at the north, and Sancoty Head, there
are but few slight elevations. Owing to the peculiar shape of the island, its two arms stretching
far out on either side, it does not appear to be as large as it really is,--being about sixteen
miles long, and four wide, affording sufficient elbow room, however, for its eight thousand
inhabitants. The soil is sandy, but is cultivated to some extent; and though they can boast
of no extensive forests, yet you may occasionally meet with an old friend in the way of a noble
elm, or the pensive weeping willow. The culture of fruit trees, also, is receiving much attention
of later years, and as widely as refinement must be separated from the islanders, to be in
keeping with your views, their love for the sweet spring flowers knows no bounds.

In your walks of curiosity about town, you meet with a great many of the denomination termed
Friends, or Quakers, and as you pass them you cannot refrain from giving them the inside walk,
for their very garb is of humility; and as you look into the placid face of some matron, you
feel like uncovering yourself, for you can see the innocence looking out of her eyes. You are
curious to know whither so many are wending their way, and meeting a sailor-boy, he tells you
it is "fifth day," and if you follow in the wake of the "slick bonnets," they will pilot you
to their nearest light-house; but precious little light you will get unless the spirit move
some of them to pick up the wick. You move on with the rest till you come to their house of
worship, which appears as humble as those who enter its doors. As you contrast the plainness
on all sides with the richly decorated edifice in which you have been accustomed to worship,
you try to smile a smile of contempt at the scene, but cannot, for you feel that the spirit
of Christ is in their midst; and though not a word is spoken during the hour and a half, yet
you feel that the silent worship which went up to Heaven, was heard by Him who answers prayer.
As a signal for dispersing, the elders who occupy the "rising seats," arise and shake hands,
and you go your way with those silent ones, feeling that their worship was acceptable to God. It
soon became evident that it is not always desirable to belong to a parish grouped with others
under a United District School Board. Aldington possessed the largest rateable value with the lowest
population, which was about equal to Wickhamford with the lowest rateable value; and Badsey,
with by far the largest population, came between Aldington and Wickhamford as to rateable value-- the
obvious result being that Aldington was called upon to pay an excessive and unfair share of
the cost of educating Badsey's children.

We did not, however, want a school in our quiet village; it is something to get rid of children
when inclined to be noisy, so we did not grumble at a little extra
expense.

We carried on the school at first in the old building, but very soon the Department began to press
for a larger and better-equipped establishment. Many of their requirements we considered unnecessary
in a country village, and put off the evil day as long as possible, with such phrases as, "The
matter is under consideration," or, "Will shortly be brought to the notice of the Board." Like
"retribution," however, the Education Department, "though leaden-footed, comes iron-handed,"
and when all other methods failed they always put forward as a final inducement to comply
with their demands the threat of withholding the Government grant; so that, in spite of the
shoemaker's encomium, that "Our chairman has plenty of combativeness," we had eventually to give
way.

At the outset it was decided to admit the Press; our meetings were generally expected to afford
some spicy copy for readers of the local papers, but I am pleased to think that both reporters
and readers were disappointed. Some of our neighbours had given us specially lively specimens
of the personalities indulged in at the meetings of their local bodies, Boards of Guardians, and
Councils-- notably, at that time, those of Winchcombe and Stow-on-the-Wold, where these exhibitions
appeared to form a favourite diversion. It is a mistake for such a Board as ours to admit reporters;
the noisy members are apt to monopolize the speaking, to the exclusion of the more useful
and more thoughtful; the former play to the gallery to the extent of visibly addressing themselves
to the reporters instead of to the chairman, as is proper.

The first point we had to consider was the acquisition of a suitable site for the new buildings,
the old site not affording space to enlarge the premises or for the addition of a master's house.
We were lucky to get the offer of an excellent position, allowing not only space for all the
buildings in contemplation, but ample room for future enlargements, which it was evident would be
needed before many more years.

I was requested, with another member, to interview the vendor's solicitors, and we were empowered
to make the best bargain we could arrange for the site.

We concluded the purchase, and congratulated ourselves upon the acquisition of a central and in
every way desirable site, with a long road frontage, for the very moderate sum of, I think,£ 90.
On reporting to the Board at our next meeting, the sum appeared large to some of the more simple
members, and they were inclined to be dissatisfied, until I told
them that I was prepared to appropriate the bargain myself, and they
could find another for the school.

This settled the matter, and, I suppose, at the present time the site would fetch two or three
times what it cost us.

Plans and specifications were now necessary, and from inquiries I had made I was able to suggest
an architect with much experience in school buildings. He appeared before the Board later, and
was subjected to many questions from the members, of which I only remember one that appealed to
me as original: "Do you pose before this Board as an economical architect?" We soon had the work in train,
but, of course, before any active steps were taken, all our proposals were submitted to, and approved
by the Education Department.

The question of religious instruction became urgent, and I was pleased and surprised at carrying a unanimous
resolution through the Board-- although it included some Nonconformists-- that the Vicar (No.
2), who had declined to be nominated as a candidate for election, should be invited to undertake
the religious instruction of the school. The Vicar consented, and the arrangement worked smoothly
for some years. One day, later, a member rose, and inquired if the children were receiving
religious instruction. "Yes," I said. "Are the children taught science?" "Yes," again. "Well,"
said he, "how do you reconcile the fact, when religion and science are not in agreement?" Fortunately,
I had been lately taking a course of Darwin, and I was able to refer him to the concluding lines
of the Origin of Species. We debated the matter with some energy, but having made his protest,
the member was satisfied to let the matter drop.

All went well thereafter until we were settled in the new building,
and Vicar No. 3 was in possession of the living.

 He was young and inexperienced
  in the conduct of a parish, and was imbued
  with ideas of what he considered a
  more ornate and elaborate form of
  worship. Innovations followed-- lighted
  candles over the altar and the
  appointment of a Server at
  the Communion Service. Almost immediately
  I heard objections from the villagers;
  they could not understand the necessity
  for a couple of dim candles in a church
  on a summer day, when the whole
  world outside was ablaze with
  the glory of the sun.
  
  A member arose at a Board meeting,
  and began: "Mr. Chairman, I wish to
  draw the attention of the Board to the
  question of religious instruction in the
  school, for I reckon that our children are
  being taught a lot of Popery."
  I could see that he had been in consultation
  with other members of the Board,
  and that he had a majority behind
  him. I tried hard to smooth matters
  over, but they had made up their minds,
  and he carried his resolution that,
  in future, the new Vicar should be authorized
  to enter the school for the purpose
  of religious instruction only one day
  a week! I think this small indulgence
  was accorded only as a result of my efforts
  in his favour, though I was by no means
  pleased with the innovations myself.

I
  put the matter before the Vicar,
  asking him if he thought his novelties
  were worth while in the face of
  the opposition of the village and
  the loss of his religious influence
  with the children. He would not
  go back from what, he said, he regarded
  as a matter of principle, and could not
  see that he was throwing away a unique opportunity,
  but he agreed to withdraw the unwelcome Server.

  
  
  In spite of the fact that every detail
  of the new school building had been submitted to, and approved by,
the Education Department, trouble began with an officious inspector,
who on his first visit complained of the ventilation.

An elementary school is never exactly a bed of roses, but we had
a lofty building and classrooms, with plenty of windows, which could
be adjusted to admit as much or as little fresh air as was requisite.

We protested without result, and we had eventually to pull the new
walls about and spend£ 20 on what we considered an uncalled-for alteration.

Our inspectors of schools varied greatly: some were quiet with the
children and considerate with the teachers; others vindicated their
authority by unnecessary fault-finding, upsetting the teachers and
alarming the children.

In the days of our voluntary school I have seen a room full of children
in a state of nervous tension, and the mistress and pupil-teachers in
tears, as the result of inconsiderate reprimands and irritable speech.
My sympathies have been strongly aroused on such occasions with a
child's terror of being made an exhibition before the others.

  As a boy at Harrow, in the form of
   the Rev. F. W. Farrar, afterwards Dean
     of Canterbury, I had an unpleasant
   experience, though it was no fault
     of his and quite unintentional. The Russian Government
   had sent a deputation of two learned professors to England, to inquire
into the educational system of the Public Schools, with the view of
sending a member of the Royal family for education in this country.

        Among other schools, they visited Harrow, and Mr. Farrar's form was
one of those selected for inspection.

  It was the evening of a winter's day,
   when, at the four o'clock school, we
   found two very formidable-looking
   old gentlemen in spectacles and many
   furs seated near the master's desk. Great was
   the consternation, but Mr. Farrar was careful not to call upon any boy
who would be likely to exhibit himself as a failure. I was seated
near Mr. Farrar, at one end of a bench. He had a habit, when wanting
to change his position, of moving quite unconsciously across the
intervening space between his desk and this bench, and placing one
foot on the bench close to the nearest boy, he would, with one hand,
play with the boy's hair, while he held his book in the other.

        With horror, I found him approaching, and shortly his hand was on my
head, rubbing my hair round and round, and ruffling it in a fashion
very trying to any boy who was neat and careful of his personal appearance.

I could see the Russians staring through their spectacles at these proceedings; possibly they
thought it a form of punishment unknown in Russia, and my feelings of humiliation can be imagined.
Finally he gave me a smack on the cheek and retired to his desk, leaving my hair in a state of
chaos, though he had not the least idea of having done anything which might appear unusual to
the foreigners. Dear "old Farrar"!-- as we irreverently called him-- it was an education in itself
to be in his form. I had the uncommon privilege of moving upwards in the School at very much
the same rate as he did as a master, though I fear for my school reputation none too quickly.
He first kindled my admiration for the classic giants of English literature, more especially the
poets, taught me to appreciate the rolling periods of Homer, and
even the beauty of the characters of the Greek alphabet.

He was a voluminous student of the best in every form of ancient and modern literature. He always
kept a copy of Milton, his favourite poet I think, on his desk, and, whenever a passage in the Greek
or Latin classics occurred, for which he could produce a parallel, quoted pages without reference
to the book. I recall my delight and pride when I was sent on two occasions to the headmaster,
Dr. Butler, the late Master of Trinity, with copies of original verses;
and the honour I felt it to inscribe them, at Mr. Farrar's request,
in a MS. book he kept for the purpose of collecting approved original
efforts in the author's own writing.

For it was his habit once a week to give us subjects for verses or composition.
A unique effort of the Captain of the School cricket eleven, C. F.
Buller, comes back to me as I write; it did not however appear in
the MS. book.

The School Chapel was the subject, full of interest and stirring to
the imagination, if only for the aisle to the memory of Harrow officers
who fell in the Crimea.

Buller's flight of imagination was as absurd as it was impertinent: "The things in the Chapel
nonsense are, Don't you think so dear Farrar!" Mr. Farrar, however,
never took offence at such sallies.

I remember, when he was denouncing the old "yellow back" novels, murmurs becoming audible,
which were intended to reach him, of "Eric! Eric!"-- the title of
his early school-boy story-- he only smiled in acknowledgment. And on
an April 1st several boys who had plotted beforehand gazed simultaneously
and persistently at a spot on the ceiling, until his eyes followed
theirs unthinkingly in the same direction, when it occurred to him,
as nothing unusual was visible, that it was All Fools'Day.

He was very playful and indulgent; he kept a "squash" racquet ball on his desk, and could throw
it with accurate aim if he noticed a boy dreaming or inattentive. He would never when scoring the
marks enter a 0, even after an abject failure, always saying, "Give
him a charity 1!"

Boys are quick judges of sermons: if interested, they listen without
an effort; if not interested, they cannot listen.

Whenever Mr. Farrar's turn came as preacher in the School Chapel there was a subtle stir and
whisper of appreciation, "It's Farrar to-day." He was a natural orator. I can still hear his
magnificent voice swelling in tones of passionate denunciation decreasing to gentle appeal,
and dying away in tender pathos.

This
was education in the true sense of the word, and though I have wandered
a long way from my immediate subject, I feel that the digression is
not irrelevant in contrast with the mechanical instruction that goes
by the name of education in the Board Schools.

I cannot help recalling too that in the ancient IVth Form Room at Harrow, the roughest of old benches
were, and I believe still are, considered good enough for future bishops,
judges, and statesmen; while in the Board Schools expensive polished
desks and seats have to be provided at the cost of the ratepayers
to be shortly kicked to pieces by hobnailed shoes.

I was present at some amusing incidents in examinations at our village school. A small boy was
commanded by an inspector to read aloud, and began in the usual child's high-keyed, expressionless,
and unpunctuated monotone: "I-have-six-little-pigs-two-of-them-are-white-two-of-them-are-black-an
d-two-of-them-are-spotted." "That's not the way to read," interposed
the inspector.

"Give me the book." He stood up, striking an attitude, head thrown
well back, and reading with great deliberation and emphasis: "I have
six LITTLE PIGS; two of them are white!

Two of them are black! and (confidentially) two of them are spottered!"
I once picked up an elementary reading book in the school, and read
as follows: "Tom said to Jack,'There is a hayrick down in the meadow;
shall we go and set it on fire?'"

And so on, with an account of the conflagration, highly coloured. So much for town ideas of the education
of country children; the suggestion was enough to bring about the catastrophe, given the opportunity
and a box of matches.

Some of the inspectors were very agreeable men; they occasionally came to luncheon at my house,
and I once asked where the best-managed schools were to be found. The reply was, "In parishes
where the voluntary schools still exist, and the feudal system is mildly administered." Our villagers,
reading of the large sums that we were obliged to expend in response to the requirements of the
Education Department, and finding the consequent rates a burden,
began to think of economy and nothing but economy, so that though
I had expected them to be only too anxious to provide the very best
possible education for their own children, it came as a surprise that
this was quite a subordinate aim to that of keeping down the cost.

And this was the more unexpected, as the main cost fell upon the large ratepayers, like myself
and the railway company and the owners of land and cottages rented rate-free. At the next election
several of these economists became candidates, with the result that many of the original members
including myself were not returned, in spite of the fact that our
well-planned and well-built schools were erected at a lower cost per
child than any in the neighbourhood.

I was not sorry to escape from the monotony of listening to interminable debates as to whether
a necessary broom or such-like trifle should be bought at one shilling
or one and threepence. For this was the kind of subject that the Board could understand and liked to enlarge upon, while really
important proposals were carried with little consideration.

As a matter of fact, members of a School Board are no more than
dummies in the hands of an inflexible Department, and are appointed
to carry out orders and regulations without the power of modification,
even when quite unsuitable for a country village school.

There was some little excitement at the election; one of the members
of the old Board had been called "an ignoramus," in the stress of
battle, and being much concerned and mystified asked a neighbour
what the term signified, adding, no doubt thinking of a hippopotamus,
that he believed it was some kind of animal!

His knowledge of zoology was probably as limited as that disclosed
by the following story: A menagerie was on view at Evesham, to the
great joy of many juveniles as well as older people, for such exhibitions
were not very common in the town.

Very early next morning, a farmer, living about two miles from Aldington, was awakened by a
shower of small stones on his bedroom window. Looking out he saw his shepherd in much excitement
and alarm.

"Oh master, master, there's a beast with two tails, one in front and one behind, a-pullin'up the
mangolds, and a-eatin'of'em!"

The farmer hurried to the spot and saw an African elephant which
had escaped during the night; he was wondering how to proceed when two
keepers appeared and the strange beast was led quietly back to the
town.

       As chairman of our School Board I early recognized among the members
discoverers of mare's-nests, who lost no opportunity of exhibiting
their own importance by intruding such matters into the already overflowing
agenda, and my method of dealing with them was so successful, though
I believe not original, that it may be found useful by those called
upon to preside over any of the multitudinous councils now in existence.

Whenever the member produced his cherished discovery-- generally very shadowy as to detail-- I proposed
the appointment of a subcommittee, consisting of him and his sympathizers, to inquire into the matter,
and report at the next Board meeting. In this way I shunted the bother of the investigation of
usually some trifle or unsubstantiated opinion on to his own shoulders, so that, when he realized
the time and trouble involved, he became much less interested, and
we heard very little more of the subject.

I suppose that everybody living in a country parish, who can look
back over the period of fifty years of compulsory education, would agree
that the results are insignificant in comparison with the effort,
and one cannot help wondering whether, after all, they justify the
gigantic cost.

We appear to have tried to build too quickly on an insecure foundation.
Nature produces no permanent work in a hurry, and Art is a blind leader
unless she submits to Nature's laws. The pace has been too great,
and the fabric which we have reared is already showing the defects
in its construction.

How otherwise can we account for the littleness of the men representing "the people," who have
been rushed into the big positions, and for the vulgarity of the present
age?

Vulgarity in public worship; vulgarity in the manners, the speeches, and the ideals of the House
of Commons; vulgarity in "literature," on the stage, in music, in
the studio, and in a section of the Press; vulgarity in building and
the desecration of beautiful places; vulgarity in form and colour
of dress and decoration.

We are far behind the design and construction of the domestic furniture of 150 years ago, and we have
never equalled the architecture of the earliest periods, for stability and stateliness. The skim milk
seems to have come to the top and the cream has gone to the bottom,
as the result of the contravention of the laws of evolution, and the
failure to perceive the analogy between the simplest methods of agriculture,
and the cultivation of mentality.

We have expected fruit and flowers from waste and untilled soil; we
sowed the seed of instruction without even ploughing the land, or
eradicating the prominent weeds, and we are reaping a crop of thistles
where we looked for figs, and thorns where we looked for grapes. The
seed scattered so lavishly by the wayside was devoured by the fowls
of the air; that which was sown upon the stony places, where there
was not much earth, could not withstand the heat of summer; and that
which fell among thorns was choked by the unconquered possessors of
the field.

The educational enthusiasts of 1870 forgot that the material they
had to work upon did not come from inherited refinement and intelligence;
that it was evolved from a parentage content with a vocabulary of
some 500 words; that there was little nobility of home influence to
assist in the process of development; they crammed it with matter
which it could not assimilate, they took it from the open country
air and the sunshine, confined it in close and crowded school-rooms,
and produced what we see everywhere at the present time, at the cost
of physical deterioration-- a diseased and unsettled mentality.

I am aware that there are those who decline to admit any influence of
mental heredity, and argue that environment is the only factor to
be considered.

In a clever and well-reasoned work on the subject I lately read, this proposition was substantiated
by instances observable especially among birds brought up in unnatural
conditions.

The writer, however, entirely forgot the most conclusive piece of evidence in favour of mental
heredity which it is possible to adduce-- namely, that of the brood of ducklings, who, in spite
of the unmistakable manifestations of alarm on the part of a frantic foster-mother hen, take
to the water and enjoy it on the very first opportunity.

CHAPTER X. VILLAGE INSTITUTIONS: CRICKET-- FOOTBALL-- FLOWERSHOW-- BAND--
POSTMAN-- CONCERTS. The Lotus-Eaters. Among village institutions a
cricket club was started soon after I first came, and I was able to lend a
meadow in which the members could play. I held the sinecure office of
President. The members met, discussed ways and means, drew up regulations,
and instituted fines for various delinquencies.

Swearing was expensive at threepence each time, but there was no definition
of what were to be considered "swear words." Locally, a usual expletive
is, "daazz it," or, "I'll be daazzed," and it was not long before a
member making use of this euphemism was accused of swearing.

He protested that it was not recognized by philological authorities as coming under the category,
but he had to pay up. A village cricket match was regarded more as a contest than a pastime; each side
feared the censure of his parish, if conquered, so nothing had to
be given away likely to prove an advantage to an opposing team.

I once saw a member snatch a bat belonging to his own club from one of the other side who was about to
appropriate it for his innings with, "No you don't." How different is the
feeling, and how ready to help, a member of a really sporting team would
have been in similar circumstances!

Referring to help or advice in cricket matters, a story is told of the late Dr. W. G. Grace. The incident
happened in an adjoining county to Worcestershire. The great batsman, crossing Clifton Down, came
upon some boys at cricket. Three sticks represented the wickets,
arranged so wide apart that the ball could pass through without disturbing
them.

Ever ready to help, Dr. Grace pointed out the fault and readjusted the sticks; as he turned away
he heard, "What does'e know about it, I wonder!" Me see my brothers soon; a little while, and Pale-face come to see us.
Great Spirit bless little Pale-face," he feebly said; "she make poor Quady happy."

With that dying blessing his spirit took its flight. He had passed away, the last one of his
kind, he who had lived a life of solitude, apart from the world, looking upon the white man
as having taken from him his home, his lands, and the forests which would have been his if
the white man had not, long years ago, laid them low; yes, he had breathed a blessing, with
his last breath, upon the pale-face. He who had not a brother left to bury him, had thanked
God that the Pale-face had come to close his eyes; yes, it was the voice of childhood which
had made his last moments happy, had pointed out the road which leads the wanderer home.

It was a scene to melt the hardest heart; that little child, scarcely as high as the rude couch,
reaching up to close the eyes of him whom she should see no more. As she sat by his side, and
looked around the room where she had spent so many happy hours, a sense of loneliness crept
over her. There was the pipe which he had smoked, laid away on the little chimney-piece, and
by the bed-side was the pail of broth with which she had thought to please him so much; and
at the remembrance she burst into tears, and her tears fell upon the hand of him who lay sleeping.
Neptune, hearing the sad tones of his mistress, came and looked into her face; and when she
took no notice of him, he crouched at her feet, and howled piteously. And thus they found them,
for the little one could not think of leaving her dear Quady there alone. They buried him,
as he had wished, by the side of his brothers; and when the Sea-flower gazed into that narrow
house, so dark and still, she looked up and said, "Mother, I shall love to look at the stars
oftener now, for he has gone to live among those bright and shining ones." Sadly did the child
miss her visits to the "low home," and when in years to come her thoughts wandered over the
past, her love for the poor lone Indian had not diminished. The stars shone brighter and brighter,
even as her light was "shining unto the perfect day."

"What little missy look up in de sky so much for?" asked Vingo, as he walked by the shore,
with Sea-flower in his arms, as was his custom of a bright moonlit evening.

"O, Vingo, it is so beautiful! I was watching those fleecy clouds, until they seemed to be
little waves in which the stars were sailing upward, up, and as they looked back to us, their
smile seemed to grow purer; and I think I can see Quady among them. Don't you see him, Vingo?"

"Does you mean dose little black specks in de moon, missy?"

"No, Quady is one of the bright ones now; and you will be made white, too, when you go there.
Don't you want to go and be one of those bright ones, Vingo?"

"Does all de white folks go dar?"

"Yes, if they love God when they are here; if they are good he will take them home to be with him."

"Den I don't tink I wants to go dar."

"O, Vingo! that is very wicked! Why don't you want to go?"

"'Cause, missy, dey say old slabe massa am one ob de best men in de whole ob Berginny, and
I's 'fraid he catch Bingo and tie him up again."

At that moment a shadow was seen in the distance, and Harry came bounding over the ground on
the wings of the wind.

"Ah! I thought I should find you here, Sea-flower, making the acquaintance of some of your
sisters, as they hold up their heads in the moonlight. Vingo, what do you think? Father has
received orders to sail in a week!"

"O, go way, massa Harry; what you mean by dat?" said Vingo, letting fall his lower jaw, while
the whites of his eyes looked as if they had some time or other been in contact with a ghost.

"I mean that the Tantalizer will be ready for sea in a week, and Father will go master of her
on a Cape Horn voyage. O, if father would only let me go with him, how delighted I should be!
But he says I am too young, that I am not strong enough; yet I know of boys two or three years
younger than I am, who have been around Cape Horn, and are now making a second voyage. I have
often heard old Captain Wendall tell of the first voyage father made, when he was but ten years
old, and how nimbly he ran up to the mast-head, and was always the first to discover the whale
as she spouted, and would sing out, 'there she blows!' equal to an old tar. I must prevail
on father to let me go with him."

"Dear, dear Harry, do not talk so! Only think how mother will feel to have father go! He has
been at home so long, ever since I was born, and how would she feel to have you both go away,
and no one but Vingo and myself to comfort her."

"No one but you to comfort her? You are worth a dozen like me, darling!" and the little manly
fellow threw his arms around her neck, and felt that he had the very best sister in the world.

"Ah! young massa, I tinks you hab de right sort ob spirit; you's born to be no land-lubber;
but it my 'pinion you had better stay wid good, kind missus and de Sea-flower a while longer;
you not find a better berth, I'm tinkin'."

"No, that I shall not; let me go where I will, I shall not find a mother like her; and as for
Sea-flower, I don't believe there was ever another in the whole ocean like her."

"How funny you talk, Harry; you make me think of little Moses in the bulrushes."

"Ah! there goes a gull, flying over my right shoulder, headed seaward; the sailor's omen of
good luck; perhaps father may change his mind, after all."

"Harry, I want you to promise me you will say nothing about going to sea before mother; will
you promise?"

"I never could refuse you anything, little pussy, but you do not say anything about yourself;
would you not like to get rid of such a graceless fellow?"

The child's sympathies had been so wrapped up in her mother's grief, that it had not occurred
to her mind how much she should miss her dear father; and as she thought of Harry, who had
always played so gently with her, and came every night, after her mother had heard her prayers,
and told such beautiful stories, about the good little fairies, until she fell asleep, and
dreamed they had all come to be her sisters; and was awakened in the morning by the tramping
of so many little feet, (in near proximity to those brown curls, which seemed to have been
awake long before their mistress), and saw fourteen blue eyes looking at her, besides two roguish
black ones, behind the curtain, which she did not see, and would wonder if it might not have
been the kittens, after all, that had whispered in her ear. As she thought of all his kindness
to her, she was silent; and as the negro drew the mantle more closely about her, he wondered
if the little drop which fell upon his hand was of dew.

Preparations for the sailing of the Tantalizer were rapidly going on. She was a stout-built
ship of three hundred tons burthen, the pride of her owners; and why should she not have been?
for many a rich cargo had she brought to them, thousands and thousands of dollars had she added
to their possessions; many a hurricane had she outrode, and as she sat so proudly on the water,
she looked as if she might outlive many more. Captain Grosvenor had sailed master of her upon
six successive voyages, making a "telling" voyage each time, until, his fortune becoming sufficiently
ample, he had thought to spend the rest of his days on shore; but, after a respite of seven
years, he had become so restless, and so longed to try his fortune upon the water again, that,
receiving a flattering offer from those in whose employ he had formerly sailed, he consented,
as he said, "for the last time," to make a voyage in his favorite Tantalizer. Mrs. Grosvenor
had earnestly hoped that her husband would follow the sea no more, knowing that their means
were sufficient to supply all their wants; and since God in his providence had consigned this
little one to their care, she had congratulated herself that there was one more tie to bind
her husband to his home; and, indeed, the child was as dear to him as if she had been his own
flesh and blood; and as those last seven years upon shore stood up before him, now that he
was about to leave all that was dear to him, as having been spent more in keeping with God's
laws than in any previous part of his life, he felt that he was a better man. Naturally of
a noble, generous disposition, he had gained the respect of all who knew him. Pleasant and
gentlemanly in his manners, he was no less firm in his duties on shipboard, and his stern word
of command was received by his men with the same hearty "aye, aye," as when he cracked a joke
with them over the club-room fire. Harry had kept his promise in regard to his wish to go with
his father; and when he looked into his mother's face, and saw how mournful was her smile,
he felt that it would indeed be cruel to think of leaving her. But when he heard the sailors
saying, as he clambered up the rigging, that it was a pity such a sprightly little fellow could
not go along with them, his desire to ship for the voyage knew no bounds, and seeking his father,
in the cabin, he had a long interview with him, gaining the promise that when he should return
he would secure for him a good lay, and that he might then commence the nautical career, which
the captain plainly saw his inclinations had marked out.

The day had arrived when the ship would sail. Every thing had been made ready for a long voyage,
should the captain not meet with his usual good fortune, which was considered unnecessary by
her owners, so sanguine were they of her success; such implicit faith did they place in the
abilities of her captain, that in securing his services, they looked upon the voyage as told.
Ah! who can tell if that proud ship may ever return? Was there not one who looked upon her
thus? Within that happy home, now so desolate, sat the wife of him who had just taken his leave
of her, and the bitterness of that hour who can tell? She only who has tasted the same cup
of sorrow; she who has given to the mercies of the deep him whom she holds most dear on earth.
Such an one can indeed realize what were the feelings of that wife, as she sat at the window,
her eye fixed upon the ship which was bearing away him whom she might never see more. The white
sail is smaller and smaller, until it appears but a speck, and is finally lost in the distance.
And then what a sense of desolation! Oh, might we all seek for strength in time of trouble,
of Him who will not turn a deaf ear to the cries of his children! Who hath said, "As thy day,
so shall thy strength be." Would that all might seek for comfort in the hour of trial, as did
that stricken one,--in prayer! The Sea-flower had, with Harry, accompanied her father in the
ship, as she was towed out by the steamer over the bar. As they were about to cast off, when
the steamer should return, the father sought to bid his children farewell. Turning to his boy,
he bade him be all that a son and brother should be. With one long embrace his eye rested upon
the Sea-flower; his voice failed him.

"Father," said the child, "you will soon come to us again; then you will never leave us;" pointing
to a little cross which she had privately embroidered and set up in his state-room, she said,
"you will be happy, father, so happy, on the water! But sometimes, when the stars look down
upon you, or the great waves break over your ship, you will want to see us; and when you look
at the pretty name which you gave me," (pointing out the word Natalie, which was wrought upon
the foot of the cross), "you may know that I am thinking of you. Our hearts shall be with you."

With a father's blessing upon his children, he suffered them to be taken away; and as the loud
huzza went up from the deck of the steamer, he saw his little one gazing back upon him, from
amidst the waving banners, with a look which sank into his heart; her gentle words were still
sounding in his ear, and it would seem as if that voice of childhood was of riper years. Her
words were never forgotten. Over the spirit of the child there came that which she had never
known before; ah! gentle one, it is but the first drop of bitterness which must be mingled
with the sweets in every life. May the All-Father keep thy feet from hidden thorns, strewing
thy pathway only with the sweet flowers of innocence! He had gone; and the heart of the Sea-flower
echoed,--"he has gone;" the very breeze which wafted him from home sighed "gone." Is there
a heart which never knew the tone?

CHAPTER IV.

WESTWARD HO!

  "Far on the prairies of the West,
     A lovely floweret grows;
   With glowing pen, each traveller oft
     Describes the Prairie Rose.

  "For ages there alone it grew,
     The prairie's gem and pride;
   But now the Rose of Sharon fair
     Is blooming at its side."

        MRS. J.H. HANAFORD.

"Och, sure, mem, and it's meself that's afther a thinking that we shall be raching good ould
Ireland, from the ither side of this great Ameriky, if we kape on."

"Have patience, Biddy, we shall be there to-morrow at this time; there is nothing like keeping
up good courage."

"Cabbage! mem, and it's meself has not seen a hapurth of a cabbage since we stopped the last
time, to get a bit to sustain hunger, sure; I think mem, they must have rolled off, when the
kitchen mirror and gridiron dhraped down," said Biddy, desirous to atone in some way for the
disappearance of sundry heads of cabbage, which she had found means of disposing of, even in
its unprepared state, while buried among washtubs, cheese-presses, and churns.

"Bad luck to the likes of it, indade!" and she caught at a small dining-table just in time
to set it upon its legs again.

"I don't wonder Biddy complains, mother; it's enough to weary the patience of Job, riding so
slowly over these dismal prairies; it would really do my eyes good to get sight of a hill,
or any thing to break this continual sameness. What can father be thinking of, to take us to
such a lonely, out of the way place? Never mind, Biddy, we shall have the pleasure of seeing
where the sun goes to."

Thus spake the occupants of a long, covered wagon, moving westward, drawn by four stout oxen,
with as many horses and cows following in the rear.

"Drive on there, Patrick," called out Mr. Santon, who was riding his own horse by their side;
"drive on, we must get to the settlement by another night."

"Yes, sir, I am afther urging on the bastes for the last piece or two; but the crathurs have
come so far, they don't know, sure, if they be jist laying home, or afther a raching there."

Mr. Santon had formerly been a merchant in the city of Boston; he had been doing a heavy business,
and had accumulated a handsome fortune, but being one of those easy sort of persons, who think
everybody as honest as themselves, he had, in an evil hour, endorsed largely for those who
were worse than swindlers, who had not even as much as thanked him for his name; and he had
lost nearly all in that one act. Many friends he had, who knowing his worth, had kindly offered
their assistance, and would willingly have set him on his feet again, for they disliked to
lose so valuable a citizen from their midst; but he, declining all assistance from those, whom
he knew gave not grudgingly, thanked them with a grateful heart, and taking what little was
left to him after paying his debts, had started with his wife and only child, and two servants
whom he had retained, for the far West, intent upon leading a quiet, unmolested life, in the
bosom of his family. Haying supplied himself with all requisite tools, etc., for tilling the
ground, for which occupation he had always a great desire, they had now, after a fatiguing
journey of fourteen days, arrived at the little log-house, in the western part of the state
of Ohio, which was to be their future home. This was a great change for Mrs. Santon, who had
spent the most of her days in the city, and had always servants to call upon for her least
wish, never being obliged to lift a finger against her desire. She was one of the best of women,
with a kind word for every one, and greatly did the poor, upon whom she had bestowed so many
gifts of charity, lament her departure. In the church, the sewing-society, by the bedside of
the suffering, and in the home of poverty, had she a place; her worth was known to all. Cheerfully
did she resign all to go with her husband, to follow him, wherever it might be; with him would
she be happy in their home, though it might be ever so humble. Their daughter of ten years
was a sprightly, pretty child, with dark hair, and bright, black, tell-tale eyes, which looked
as if they might make sad havoc, when a few more years should have added to their brilliancy.
Resembling her mother in features, her disposition was like her father; free and easy in her
ways, she was happy so long as every thing bent to her wishes; but her mother could not but
notice with regret that her child had acquired a hasty, impatient manner, which the indulgence
of her father in no way served to improve; yet she was a warm-hearted little creature, and
it was with great difficulty that Mrs. Santon could bring herself to censure her. Still the
mother must do her duty toward her child, and many a prayer had been offered, that she might
have strength to act aright.

The long covered wagon stopped at the door of their new home just as the sun was going down.

There was but one house in sight of their little cabin, and that was, if anything, still smaller
than their own; nothing was to be seen on all sides but wide prairie land, and as the little
Winifred cast her eye around, she exclaimed:

"O! mother, what shall we do here? I am sure I shall not like to stay; there is no one here."

"You forget that God is here, my child," said the mother; and she commenced assisting Biddy
in setting up some few articles that would make them comfortable through the night, while her
husband, with Pat, attended to the out-door affairs.

"Och, and sure, mem," said Biddy, as she put her emerald head in at the door of the cabin;
"faith, and it's not yesilf, mem, that's going to rest in the same room with the likes of me."

"Yes, Biddy, I see no other way; we shall have to get used to western life. I think, by partitioning
off one corner, here, with blankets, we shall get along very well; and then it will be right
handy for you in the morning to get the breakfast; you will not have the trouble of coming
down stairs."

"Yes, mem, yese makes everything so asy like! but it's such strange times for yese, mem!" and
Biddy went flying about the room, her face glowing with excitement, pulling at every uneven
log in the house, fully persuaded there must be some other apartment, if no more than a closet;
and as she caught at a loose board, which only separated them from the open air, she looked
through, delighted that she had discovered another room, and that her mistress would not now
be obliged to share the same apartment with herself; for as the remembrance of certain devotional
exercises to be gone through, over each bead in her rosary, came to her, she had her doubts
if the "blissed St. Pathrick," (who, for reasons best known to herself, was her favorite saint),
would condescend to listen to petitions offered from such near proximity to the unbelieving
Protestants; not that she thought her mistress was not a most excellent woman, but she was
a Protestant, and often had she called upon the blissid St. Patrick, to "bring her dear lady
over to the thrue faith." As she bent down to look into the opening, congratulating herself
upon the discovery, a large cat darted through, full into her face, and ran with speed out
at the door.

"Och, murther! and may the good saints presarve us alive! What will become of us at all?" and
in her fright she went headlong into a pile of milk-pans, her unwieldy arms making certain
involuntary revolutions, causing the air to resound with a chorus, which might have done credit
to the first callithumpian in the land.

"Ho! what is all this?" cried Mr. Santon, who had stepped in at the commencement of the prelude;
"what are you looking for under those pans, Biddy?"

"Sure, sir, and it's mesilf that's afther being exterpretated intirely! The varmints! faith,
there was a dozen, sir, came scratching at me;" and she pointed at the aperture, as if in dread
expectation of seeing their ghosts in pursuit; but lo! instead, there was the full, round face
of Pat, who, having been left to take up his night's lodging with the creatures, in the apology
for a barn, had espied the light, and not being able to resist the temptation of getting one
more glimpse at the "swate Biddy," he had ventured to look in, and catching a glimpse of her
woebegone face from among the shining tins, he exclaimed:

"Och, honey dear, and has it come to this? that yese obliged to make yese bed of the likes
of that! And if ye'll wait a bit it's mesilf that'll run and fetch some of the nate, saft sthraw,
that ye can fill the tins, and 'twill do ye betther; indade, and it's none but a hathen that
could endure the likes of that!"

"Ah! Pathrick, is it ye? and was ye pint up in there wid the crathurs?"

"Yes, it's mesilf that will be risting with the bastes, the night," said Pat, thinking she
had alluded to the creatures in the barn; "and I'll be wishing ye swate dhrames, and a plinty'
of thim;" saying which he disappeared, leaving the trembling Biddy in great anxiety of mind
as to what should be his fate.

As the little Winnie peeped out from behind the screen, when they had all retired, and saw
Biddy counting her beads, with her eye still fixed upon the spot where she had last seen the
smiling Patrick, she laughed outright, in spite of the crevices in the roof overhead, and she
laid her down and looked up at the stars which came twinkling in upon her, 'till those great
black eyes gradually diminished in size, and her little brain was busily engaged among the
familiar scenes of the home which she had left so far away.

Cautiously did Biddy, with the first dawn of day, advance toward where she had dreamed her
poor "Pathrick" was in close contact with the veritable bastes, and the family was awakened
from their slumbers by her loud tones, lamenting that "niver a vistage of Pathrick, the cats,
or the ante-room was left," for on looking out, the only object which met her gaze was the
sun, which was just coming up in the east.

"What's the time, Biddy?" asked Mrs. Santon.

"And it's jist about three hours afther sunrise, mem."

"I think you must be mistaken, Biddy; we cannot surely have been sleeping so long after our
usual time for rising."

"Indade, and the sun bes jist coming in sight, and it must have been a powerful time travelling
over, sure. I'm thinking they must be afther dhrying their takettles a long time, back there
in ould Boston."

Time passed on, and our adventurers were becoming more and more accustomed to western life.
Mr. Santon had found his lands to be in a very good state of cultivation, the former owner
having been a Dutchman, who thoroughly understood what a good farm ought to be. Mrs. Santon
had proved herself to be one of the best of housekeepers, and greatly did she pride herself
on her abilities for filling the station of a farmer's wife. As they sat down of an evening,
to their meal of bacon and Indian cakes, and contrasted their present circumstances with what
had been their former situation in life, they could not repress a smile at the change; but
they were happy, contented in their humble home, and the bread which had been earned by the
sweat of the brow was sweeter, the social enjoyments dearer, than when in fashionable life
they had been obliged to live with an eye to the customs of society; even Winnie had found
some attractions in their little western home. The neighbors comprising those who lived for
twenty miles around, the nearest being a mile distant, were pleasant, light-hearted people,
and the civilities which were shown to the new comers were without end.

A small log-house, unlike the others of the settlement in its exterior, inasmuch as it was
honored with an additional door, served as their place of worship; and it was with great joy
that Winnie looked forward to Sunday morning, when, mounted upon her pony, she might ride off
for six miles to the church, accompanied by her father and mother, each riding their respective
horses. Arrived at the church, they dismounted at the great horseblock, leaving their hats
and mantles thereon, as was the custom; and it was a pretty sight to see the ladies walking
into church, their cheeks glowing with exercise, and the fresh, morning air. As Winnie entered,
her long curls composing themselves after a frolic with the breeze, many a sly glance was aimed
at her from the neighboring pews, in spite of the consciences of their owners reminding them
that it was holy day. It was a source of great comfort to Mrs. Santon, that she as able to
come so far to this place of worship. The little society numbered not over forty persons, yet
those words spoken by our Saviour, "where two or three are gathered together in my name, there
will I be in the midst of them," came with renewed freshness to her mind, each time she entered
those doors, and she felt that she had never tasted the bliss of uninterrupted love for Christ,
as now.

The shepherd of this little flock was a man fearing God, just, and upright; his services in
the cause of Christ were offered voluntarily, without money, or price. Coming, as he had, in
his old age, to spend the remainder of his days in the family of a beloved son, he had found
with joy that his declining years might be profitably employed; that he might earn that reward
which is promised to those who make a right use of the talents which God has given them; that
he might merit those blessed words, "well done, good and faithful servant." His labors among
this people had not proved ineffectual; many had been brought to see the great mercies of their
Redeemer, souls had been converted to Christ, and as the song of praise went up from beneath
that humble roof, the glad shouts were borne aloft, and angels joined in the chorus.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a beautiful afternoon, everybody was busy about the farm of Mr. Santon; Winnie was sitting
at the door, intent upon her own thoughts, when she caught sight of their good minister approaching
upon his horse, his silver locks flying in the wind. Biddy, learning they were to have a visit
from the "Protestant praste," turned first pale, then red, and when the old gentleman dismounted
at the door, she let fall the shoulder of bacon, which she was preparing for the supper, and
darted behind the screen, in her haste hitting her foot against the lowest tin, in a pile of
two dozen, which brought the rest down to inquire into the state of affairs.

The presence of the old gentleman served to impart a cheerfulness to all who gazed upon his
happy countenance, and his kind tones, as he inquired for the welfare of the family, penetrated
the screen, reaching the ear of Biddy, who sat wondering what the good father Teely would say,
if he knew she had so far sinned as to remain under the same roof with a "wicked Protestant
praste;" but as she heard him speaking to Pat, who had come in of an errand, with such a pleasant
voice, she ventured a peep out, and the form of her thoughts just at that moment, might have
been a little, a very little, savoring of heresy. Suffice it to say, when the old gentleman
took his departure, there was a peculiar twinkle in Biddy's eye, and she had so far overcome
her aversion to the "imposther" as to have had a few private words with him, which had by no
means decreased her usual flow of good spirits. It was evident that Biddy "had on her high
heels," for the rest of that evening. As Winnie strolled over the farm, enjoying the evening
breeze, reflecting upon her good pastor's words, her attention was suddenly attracted toward
the enclosure where the cows were being milked, by hearing the voice of Biddy, who, as she
"stripped" the patient animal again, for the dozenth time, was very much engaged with Pat,
whose round, smiling face, as he glanced at her from the opposite side of the creature, shone
with delight; and as the white foam rose higher and higher in Biddy's pail, so did the warmth
of her feelings get the better of her, and those tell-tale eyes of Winnie's danced with mischief,
as she overheard the following conversation:

"Ah, Pathrick dear, does ye think there is the laste sin in it? And indade, it's mesilf that's
thinking the blissid St. Pathrick would be afther misthaking him for a good Catholic!"

"And what did he say, honey dear? did he think he could be afther comforting the likes of us?"

"Thrath, and he did; it was himsilf that said niver a word when I was spaking to him about
it, but was afther showering a blissing upon us, the dear sowl!"

"But what will the praste say? Biddy, sure he'll be very angry, intirely."

"Faith, and it's no longer ago than the day afther yesterday, that the misthress was saying
if we confissed our sins with a right spirit, we should be afther being forgiven; and now,
Pathrick, I'm thinking we 'll be afther getting married, and then there will be a plinty of
time for confissing."

"Och, honey, and that's the thruth for ye," said the assenting Pat, and together they walked
towards the cabin.

Winnie, putting that and that together, made up her mind that Patrick and Biddy had become
tired of a life of single blessedness, and were seriously contemplating matrimony, which was,
indeed the case; and Biddy, having made known her desires to her mistress, who saw no just
cause why they should not be bound together in the holy bands of wedlock, the next Wednesday
was set apart when Patrick and Biddy would be made husband and wife.

The day arrived, and Biddy, arrayed in her best snuff-color, with ribbons and laces to match,
stood up with him of her choice, to pronounce those vows which should make them one, even though
the ceremony should be performed by a Protestant.

"Will you take this woman to be your wedded wife?" spake the reverend gentleman, in a clear,
distinct tone.

"Ah! kape on, kape on!" shouted the enraptured Pat; "don't be throublin yesilf with questions;
dear knows it's mesilf that's in it;" and his smiling face was mirrored in numerous brass buttons,
which were hanging around his buff vest.

As soon as the old gentleman could get his voice again, for the boisterous joy of Pat, be turned
to the trembling Biddy.

"Do you take this man to be your lawful husband, and leaving all others, will you cleave unto
him alone?"

"Indade, your Riverence!" exclaimed Biddy, "I'll be afther claving him all the days of me life!
It's not mesilf, sure, that was always born and reared in the great city of Cork, that'll be
doing things by halves!" and in her happiness she caught Pat around the neck, giving him a
smack, which might have been attributed to the opening of the bottle of whiskey with which
Mr. Santon had graced the occasion, had it not been for those great eyes of Winnie, which would
discover the accident, in spite of their mistress's endeavors to direct their attention elsewhere.

And now Patrick and Biddy were husband and wife. Never was there a more devoted couple; the
days glided pleasantly on, Biddy keeping time in her endeavors to please her mistress with
the joys of her heart; everything went on cheerfully, not a note of discontent was heard, except
that the little Winnie would sometimes break into sighing for the pleasures of her early home.
Nothing occurred to disturb the quietude of this home in the West, until early in the ensuing
Fall, when Mrs. Santon was taken with a violent attack of Western fever, which threatening
to undermine her health, Mr. Santon was fearful lest they should be obliged to return East;
but the fever leaving her, she was again able to attend to her duties, with only an occasional
"shake," and the discussion as to their return was for the present discontinued.

CHAPTER V.

THE OUTWARD BOUND.

  "Go in thy glory o'er the ancient sea,
   Take with thee gentle winds thy sails to swell,
   Sunshine and joy upon thy streamers be;
     Fare thee well, bark; farewell!"

        MRS. HEMANS.

 "Farewell; God knows when we shall meet again.
  I have a faint, cold fear thrilling through my veins,
  That almost freezes up the heat of life."

        SHAKESPEARE'S "ROMEO AND JULIET."

As the dews of heaven fall gently, lulling the flowers to rest, so did the low, clear voice
of the Sea-flower soothe the weary spirits of Mrs. Grosvenor, as she read from the evening
paper the following paragraph:

"Spoken by bark Constitution, of New York, in latitude 39° 20', longitude 45°, ship Tantalizer,
of Nant., Capt. I. W. Grosvenor, eighty days from home; had taken seventy barrels of sperm
oil, and was made fast to a forty-barrel right whale: would sail for South Seas in a few days;
all well."

"Hurrah for father!" exclaimed Harry; "he will be at home in less than two years, at that rate,
and then he promised me that I should see what old ocean is made of!"

"My son, you will learn full soon what a life at sea is; your bright visions may indeed some
of them be realized, the many dangers to which you will be exposed, will not serve to mar your
joys, for to such a heart as yours they will pass unheeded; but for all that, my son, you will
meet with many hardships, of which you little know. I would wish you never to follow the sea,
my boy, but if you are still determined upon it, when your father returns I shall have to give
my consent, though with reluctance. You will then be old enough to choose your own pursuits
for life, and whatever they may be, remember, Harry, to lead an honest, upright life, never
losing sight of your early instructions, and the prayers of your mother."

As Mrs. Grosvenor ceased speaking she looked upon her son, and could hardly realize that her
little rosy-cheeked Harry, who had loved to lay his head upon her bosom, and listen while she
told him of his father, who had gone away over the blue water, to get such pretty things for
his boy, had grown to be a tall lad of fifteen years; and well might she have been proud of
her son, for the nobleness of his soul was apparent in every feature. As Vingo expressed himself,
"Young massa Harry am got up ob what neber would get used to de atmosphere ob old Berginny."

"Mother," said Harry, "I shall never forget your teachings. I shall always hold them sacred
in my heart, and wherever I go, in whatever circumstances I am placed, I will be true to you,
my mother;" and he pressed a fervent kiss upon the brow of her who was worthy the name.

As Mrs. Grosvenor returned her son's embrace, she felt that perhaps she had said too much;
that she had been selfish in wishing to have him always near her; and she observed that he
wore an expression of pain, of deep emotion, which he in vain attempted to conceal.

The Sea-flower had rested her head upon her hand, and while her mother had been engaged with
Harry, a silent spectator might have wondered to what unseen object those deep oases of love
were imparting their purity. The words of Harry had fallen upon her ear,--"I shall see what
old Ocean is made of;" shall we follow in the train of her musings? they will lead us not where
the fallen tread. On the banks of the still waters of peace, 'neath the willows, whose tears
are of innocence, frisk the tender lambs, who taste only of the sweets of the green pasture:--"I
shall see what old ocean is made of." Far away in coral dells, where the nymphs of ocean tune
their harps in praise to Nature's God, the Sea-flower loves to ramble, as if she had been a
child in time long past, and the mysteries of ocean were that childhood's home. Ah, loved one,
thou dost not pause to find what 'tis which makes thy heart to beat in unison with the murmuring
of the waters! perchance those restless billows are but the echoings of thy soul's desire to
breathe that upper air, and breathing, gasp for more, 'Tis not for us to tell thee that bright
ones came down, and bore the spirit of her who gave thee life, to that better land, from hence;
nor of the dying prayer, "Lord, keep my child," which was caught up by each listening billow,
and the supplication, e'er since renewed by the voices of the deep.

Why Mrs. Grosvenor had spoken thus, upon this evening to her son, she could not tell; she felt
there was some irresistible power which bade her speak that charge,--"never lose sight of your
early instructions, and the prayers of your mother." As she retired early for the night, feeling
slightly indisposed, she met the gaze of Harry, which was fixed upon her, attributing its uncommon
earnestness to a determination on his part to cherish her words. And he never did forget them
But, ah! fond mother, sleep on, take thy rest, and gain strength for the morrow's rising, for
thou knowest not of the cup of sorrow which is being prepared for thee.

As Harry sat watching the bright flames as they went crackling up the chimney, his sister came
and rested her head upon his shoulder, where they remained, until Sea-flower, reminding him
of the lateness of the hour, was about to retire, when her brother threw his arm about her,
begging her to remain a little, for, said he, "I shall not always have my dear sister to comfort
me."

"To comfort you! Harry, do you, who are always so light-hearted and joyous, need comforting?"

"Ah, pussy, but you can make the happiest heart happier. I was thinking of mother; it is a
comfort to me that she has you, Sea-flower, to cheer her lonely hours."

"I think mother is less sad than she has been, for now she is looking forward to the time when
father shall come home; and I think she flatters herself that she can dissuade you from going
to sea, and then we shall be an unbroken, happy family once more."

Those words! why had they power to make that boy turn pale? Had he not been screened from the
bright glow of the fire-light, the Sea-flower must have noticed his agitation, as she looked
up for the good-night kiss; he clasped her in his arms for a moment, and then the door closed
upon her gentle form.

The old clock in the church tower had struck eleven, and Harry heard the cry of the watch,
"all's well." He still stood where he had parted with his sister; as her last footfall upon
the stairs died away, and the house was hushed for the night, the plans which he had matured
long days ago, for this night's execution, laid fast hold of him. Can it be possible that the
boy is about to forget those last words of his mother? No, they are still sounding in his ear;
and his promise, "I will not forget the prayers of my mother." But does he consider, in the
step which he is about to take, of the arrow which will pierce that mother's heart? He walks
the room with a quick tread; he does reflect, and pities his mother from the bottom of his
heart, praying that the blow may fall gently; but he has shipped for a voyage in the Nautilus,
and this night, at high tide, she will sail.

Noiselessly he ascends to his room, and taking his clothes from the drawer, where they had
been placed with care, makes them into a bundle, not forgetting the little bible, which was
given him by his mother only the day before, as a birthday gift. Pausing in the upper hall,
he listens, if he may get one last faint sound from those he holds so dear; but save the uneasy
slumbers of Vingo, nothing is heard. All is now ready for his departure; stepping into the
parlors, where hang the portraits of the family, he takes a farewell of each. The Sea-flower
and his mother! his eyes fill with tears, and his heart is swelling into his throat; he is
upon the point of retracing his steps, when his eye rests upon the features of his father.
The daring boldness of the expression, which the artist had but too well portrayed, fires him
with fresh courage; every nerve thrills with new life, and kissing the inanimate canvas, as
if it were indeed his dear mother and sister, he tore himself away from home. Walking rapidly
down the deserted street, without venturing a look back, he passes many an endeared object;
the old white church, where he has been accustomed to worship, Sunday after Sunday, for many
years, holds high its head in the bright moonlight, and the hands of the old town clock upon
the tower, seem to beckon him to return. He falters; it would seem as if the very doors of
the church would open and receive him. Throwing down the bundle, he kneels upon the door-stone,
and breathes a prayer to heaven, to bless those who will enter therein when he shall be gone.
Pressing his lips to the cold stone where they have trod, he rises, when lo! standing by his
side, with the package of clothes in his mouth, is the old house dog, Nep; and as the watch
in the tower cries, "past eleven o'clock, and all is well," he looks wistfully into his master's
face, as if he would ask, is all well? What is to be done? in less than half an hour the ship
will be towed out into the stream; there is no time to be lost, but the dog will not think
of leaving his master, for his experience of years tells him it is a new thing for the boy
to be wandering from home at this unseasonable hour. In vain did Harry attempt to drive the
faithful creature from him, for never having been an unwelcome companion before, the dog did
not understand his master's threatening gestures; yet he could understand that something was
amiss, and for that reason kept close upon his master's heels, to shield him from all danger.

Arriving at the wharf, the boy once more attempted to drive the dog from him, when looking
around, he espied a bit of rope, with which he made him fast to a post, and then clambered
up the ship's side. Poor Nep, keeping his eye upon his master, laid him quietly down, until
the lines were cast off, and the ship began to recede from the shore. O, Harry, could you leave
the companion of your infancy thus, made fast to a yard rope, to shiver in the night air? It
was his only alternative, for in taking Neptune with him he well knew would be robbing the
household of one more endearment. No sooner had the ship started from her moorings, and Nep
saw that his master was being borne away, than he gave a piteous howl, and with one bound parted
the line which held him, and plunging into the tide, made vigorous attempts to reach the ship.

"Breakers on the larboard bow!" sung out the captain, who stood laughing to see the labors
of the poor animal, who was becoming exhausted; "let's see who'll have the first harpoon!"
and he hurled a billet at the dog's head as he was going down for the second time. Harry, seeing
the action, cried out, "Save him! who will save my poor Nep?" and fell fainting upon the deck.
Fortunately the hard-hearted man had missed his mark for once, and by the light of the moon,
the poor fellow was seen, just under the bows, struggling feebly, as if about to give up, when
an old tar, who had heard Harry's cry for help, sprang with the rapidity of thought, and seizing
a rope, made it into a slip-noose, throwing it over the dog's head, nearly strangling him as
he drew him out of the water. Together they lay motionless upon the deck, Harry and Nep, when
the captain coming along would have stumbled over them, had he not caught at a halliard near by.

"What in the name of things unheard of, is all this?" exclaimed he, with an oath; "this indeed
is a curious beginning for the little land-lubber! I've the greatest mind to set him ashore,
to come to his senses at his leisure, and if I'm not greatly mistaken, he's but a young runaway
at best; but we might as well keep him now, he'll do for testing the strength of our cats,
and as for that other critter, Mr. Sampson, you may hand him over to the steward, and tell
him I shall want a nice over-all when we get out where the ice makes an inch a minute."

Mr. Sampson, who had shipped as boat-steerer, the same that had rescued old Nep from drowning,
lifted Harry in his arms, and carrying him below, laid him in his own hammock, where he also
brought the dog, who was apparently lifeless, and laid him by his side. It was a long time
before Harry was restored to consciousness, and when he had gained strength sufficient to raise
himself upon one arm, he looked around in the darkness, perfectly bewildered; but as the remembrance
of his situation slowly came to him, he called aloud, in agony of spirit, "Nep! poor drowned
Neptune!" tossing upon his hammock, his arm came in contact with the creature's shaggy coat.
Could it be Nep? rescued from the inhuman treatment of the captain? but he did not move! was
he alive? Harry sprang from his bed, and making his way in the darkness he knew not whither,
finally found himself in the captain's state-room, which was unoccupied, and seizing a candle,
reached his hammock just as Mr. Sampson returned.

"Man alive! where did you get that light?" asked Sampson, apparently much terrified.

"O, sir, I took the first one I could find, for I must see if my poor Neptune is dead!" and
he bent over him, smoothing his head, calling loudly, "Neptune! poor Neptune!" Sampson, recognizing
the silver candlestick as belonging in the captain's state-room, hastened to return it, knowing
well what the consequences would be, if that dignitary discovered that any one had dared to
enter his room without orders; and giving Harry a few friendly hints, as to what his liberties
would be, under their commander, he drew out a mysterious looking bottle from his jacket-sleeve,
and diluting a small quantity of its contents, gave it to Harry to drink, which in his weak
condition did not come amiss. Turning to the dog, the kind old tar commenced rubbing him vigorously,
bathing his cold limbs with the spirit, glancing occasionally at the gangway, to see who might
darken the descent. The dog at last gave signs of life, and to Harry's great joy, he looked
up and recognized his master, Sampson assuring him, in his rough way, that the old fellow would
soon be as good as new.

It was the last watch in the morning, and Harry, hearing loud voices on deck, ventured out.
It was a clear, cold morning, the moon had gone down, and Venus was just rising in the east;
on every side was the blue rolling water. They had left Nantucket miles behind. Sampson, who
was on duty, seeing the boy looking out, as if he had come to the conclusion that the island
had been submerged, shook out a reef in the line which he was making fast, that he might catch
the boy's ear, and pointing to a dim light far down in the distant horizon, he remarked, "Look
well, it's old Sankoty; I'm thinking you'll have seen different days when you make her again."

"Halloo, there, aft!" called out the captain; "has that kitten got to mewing? Bear a hand there,
and square your mizzen topsail," added he, a tone of mockery.

The order had hardly left his lips, when Harry, with a hearty "aye, aye, sir!" sprang into
the cross-trees, and in a twinkling had reached the masthead, calling out in a voice which
brought to the mind of each old tar that he had once a mother,--"square away it is, sir."

The captain could scarce believe his eyes; seeing by the smile upon the face of every man on
deck, that he had been decidedly sold, he hailed him again.

"Mast-head, ahoy!"

"Aye, aye, sir."

"Take your bearings from the fog bank to your leeward, and tell me how she heads."

The boy hesitated; he "saw which way the wind blew," and bethinking himself of a small pocket
compass which he had about him, sung out, "East-south-east by east, sir, two points off." The
man at the wheel responded, "East-south-east by east, two points off."

It would not do; the captain saw that he had mistaken his man, and called all hands to pipe
down. As Mr. Sampson passed him, he doffed his tarpaulin, remarking, "I think, sir, the youngster
will do very well for trying the strength of our cats."

It was evident to Harry, before he had sailed many days under Captain Jostler, that he had
one of the most tyrannical of masters. He had been a perfect stranger to him when he shipped
for the voyage, being a native of Canada, and from the frozen condition of his heart no one
would have doubted it; had he been a Nantucket man, master Harry would have found it more difficult
in getting away so privately; as it was, no inquiries were made of him. How different was Harry's
situation from what it would have been had his father procured for him a berth; as it was,
he was doomed to no common hardships, for the captain, having taken a dislike to him from the
first, seemed to take pleasure in making him as uncomfortable as possible; and had it not been
that he was a favorite with the crew, he would have suffered many times from exposure. Many
a cold, stormy night had he been ordered to take his turn in the watch, upon deck, in spite
of the petitions of the men to fill his place; and he would walk the deck for hours, to keep
from becoming benumbed with the cold; but, as his mother had predicted, the hardships and dangers
to which he was exposed did not serve to dampen his spirits, and for that very reason, did
the captain shower upon him many abuses; for in spite of his cruel treatment toward him, he
never had had the pleasure of seeing him look anything but cheerful. At such times, when the
wind was howling fiercely, and the salt spray came dashing over the deck, freezing upon the
cheek of the youthful mariner, but never penetrating that heart, which was warmed by the remembrance
of other days, the boy would think of home, of his mother, and as he uttered the name of the
Sea-flower aloud, those deep-toned voices of the sea would appear as if the wild reëchoings
of the tone; and the low moanings of the wind through the shrouds were of pity for that lone
one on the deck of the "outward bound." Could the boy have had old Nep for a companion in his
midnight watchings, he would have served to while away the time, but that pleasure was not
allowed him, for Captain Jostler had threatened to throw the dog overboard, if he came in contact
with him in any of his walks; consequently Harry had doomed him to a life in the hold, seldom
venturing to visit him, except to carry the food which he had saved from his own short allowance;
and he often wondered how the poor fellow could keep alive on such short rations, not knowing
of the purloined bits which were bestowed upon him from Sampson's commodious jacket-sleeve.

"There she blows! there she blows!" hailed the look-out from the mast-head, as a school of
whales hove in sight, about three miles astern, one afternoon, when they had been four months
on the whaling grounds. It was the first discovery that had been made, they having been thus
far unsuccessful. All hands were immediately called up; every man was at his post, making ready
for the coming scene of action; not as a man-of-war, in the charging of cannon, the priming
of musketry, and the brandishing of swords, a battle between man and man, but the boats were
lowered, the harpoons were got out, and everything was made ready for an encounter with the
monster of the ocean. Now was the time when the captain would exhibit his skill as a whaler;
all depends on his management as to their success; he must be cool, and collected, working
systematically; for not only does it require great skill and caution in the capturing of the
whale, but there are many dangers attendant upon the encounter.

"There she blows!" No sooner did Captain Jostler hear the report, than it seemed as if he would
go beside himself; every man was ready to do his duty, and had they possessed the right kind
of commander, might have done well; but where there is no head, nothing is accomplished. Everything
was confusion; the captain, springing into the first boat, bade his men follow, leaving, beside
Harry, but two worthless fellows, who hardly knew a skysail from a jib-sheet, in charge of
the ship. Harry kept his eye upon the boats for hours; he perceived they were evidently having
a hard time of it. Running aft to get a glass, as they distanced him, he discovered a fog had
sprang up, and was shutting in heavily on all sides; he returned to mark the boats; they were
nowhere to be seen; he had lost them entirely; nothing was to be seen on all sides but thick
fog banks! What was to be done? where they were, how far from the boats, and in what direction,
they knew not. The boy was aware that they were all ignorant of the management of the ship,
and what was worse, should the least breeze spring up, they would be borne,--they knew not
whither. A couple of hours passed, and the fog did not lift. Night was coming on, and from
the increased darkness, together with a low, rumbling noise of the sea, it was evident a storm
was brewing. Harry anxiously walked the quarter deck; it would be certain destruction if they
remained in that position till night should overtake them. The boy called to the men, asking
what was to be done; but they in terror could do nothing but lament their situation, calling
out against the captain for leaving them in such a state. Harry hesitated; what was done must
be done speedily. To take in sail was his first thought; then, with the assistance of the clumsy
seamen, he rolled out a small cannon-piece, and for one long hour did he keep up an incessant
fire. The coming storm was now plainly discernible; the distant rolling of thunder was heard,
the sea was agitated, and occasionally a flaw would shake the rattlings. They were in momentary
expectation that the storm would burst upon them. Harry had left his firing, and ascending
the hurricane deck, stood with folded arms, as if bracing himself to meet the foe. It is coming
in all its fury! kind heaven! the fog lifts! it rolls itself away as it were a great scroll.
The ink-black heavens are fearfully majestic, seen in the lightning's lurid glare. A speck!
yes, 't is the boats! do they see them? Once more the boy flies to the cannon, not pausing
to see if they are nearing the ship; his heart beats wildly; 'tis their only chance for life!
the hurricane has burst upon them! the enraged deep responds loudly to the deafening roar!
Once again the feeble voice of the cannon is doing its best to be heard, when lo! the flash
mingling with the forked lightnings which play in the rigging, reveals the men, as they come
tumbling over the ship's side! They are saved! saved by that noble boy, who does not know of
their approach, so intent is he upon his exertions, until Sampson clasps him in his arms, and
a "God bless you!" is upon the lips of every man, save the captain, who, having received a
slight wound from a harpoon, and irritated by their bad luck, utters a curse which vies in
blackness with that dreadful night.

"Down your helm!" shouted the captain; "hard down your helm!" The order was hardly given, when
they were thrown on their beam ends; down, down they went, as if never to rise again, completely
engulfed in the dark abyss! The boy, where is he? down in the hold, his arm made fast to the
collar of old Neptune, that they may go down together; he kneels, his mother's gift, the bible,
in his hand, calmly awaiting his time. Nature seems terrified, yet that boy knows no fear.
Crash succeeds crash; ah, who can describe the scene! He alone who has stood upon the frail
plank, which only separates him from death. Again a terrific crash,--their masts have gone
by the board! It would seem that the enraged billows were bent upon their destruction. Still
their stout bark is unwilling to give up, and trembling from stem to stern, she clings to life,
nobly resisting the gigantic attacks of the storm-king, who, having fought with terrific fierceness
through the livelong night, puts on a less demon-like expression as his strength is well nigh
spent, and the gray dawn sees no traces of the despoiler, who perhaps has slain thousands,
save the swelling surges, which angrily gaze as if disappointed of their prey.

At the first dawn of day, Harry went on deck to learn their situation. What a change had been
wrought in a few hours. Their masts had been carried away, the decks had been swept clean;
and he learned that several poor fellows had lost their hold, and were not seen more.

"Well, I'll be d----d if that son of a cannibal hasn't sneaked away into some hole, and kept
his footing," exclaimed the captain, as he saw the boy appear above deck; "I was in hopes he
had found safe quarters in Davy Jones's locker! But there's no getting rid of such scalawags!"

"Captain Jostler," cried Mr. Sampson, raising his hat, "it's none of my business, and you may
knock me down the next minute, if you please, but God knows there's not a man aboard but owes
his life to that boy. I have no mutinous designs, sir, but at such a moment as this I will
speak, sir, come what will, and thank God the boy had sense enough to go below, when he knew
he could be of no use here."

The captain looked daggers; he was about to seize Sampson by the throat, when a voice from
the assembled crew was heard:

"Three cheers and long life to the boy, captain or no captain! Hurrah! HURRAH!! HURRAH!!!"
shouted the grateful tars, making the welkin ring.

If Jostler had had the heart of a brave, noble sea-captain, he would have fought right and
left till the last, ere his men should dare to show such insubordination, setting his authority
at defiance; but he was a coward, and they were whole-hearted seamen, who would not see the
innocent trampled upon, consequently the villain had to swallow his wrath; but he was determined
to have his revenge, and Sampson noticed that he cast an evil eye upon the boy.

Upon examination it was found they had sustained no injuries, besides the loss of the masts,
except that a small leakage had been made near the bows, and that was soon repaired by the
carpenter, who proceeded to rig jury-masts, and it was not long before they were put in a condition
capable of running into the islands for repairs.

About sunrise signals of distress were heard, and by the glass, a dismasted ship was made out,
a long way astern, apparently in a sinking condition. The captain appeared to take little notice
of her, and as the mate ventured to inquire if they should "'bout ship," he answered, "Thunder!
no, we are safe; let them run their own chance."

Harry, hearing his reply, was shocked. Could the man turn a deaf ear to those repeated sounds
of distress, when it was in his power to save them? Ah, boy, it is even so! but he is not a
man. Harry could endure the thought no longer, as fainter and fainter grew the reports, as
they bore away from them; he begged Sampson to implore the captain to return, Sampson telling
him "it was of no use, that it would not do to cross him again."

"Then I will go myself to him; he cannot have the heart to leave them to perish!"

"Rash boy, your life will be the penalty! you must not do it."

"I will do my duty, though I should die for it! there is the least possibility of his hearing
me, and what is one life compared with, it may be, a hundred."

"Stay, mad boy!" cried Sampson; but he had gone.

Reaching the quarter-deck, upon his knees he implored the captain to return. "Think, if it
were your father, brother, or a son, in that hopeless condition, would you not render them
all the assistance in your power?"

"I have three brothers and a father upon the ocean," vociferated the demon; "for aught I know
it may be one of them! but were they all aboard that hulk yonder, I would not return! But who
are you, sirrah, that dares to usurp my power? Now, upstart, you shall know your place!" and
he seized him by the collar, bore him aft, lashed him to a spar, called for the cat, and lifting
it high in air,--it falls, but the cursed invention of man's cruelty falls wide of its mark!
Ere its descent had scarred that fair brow, a rush was heard from the main gangway, and old
Neptune, with a fierce growl, has fastened his teeth in the monster's flesh! Quick as thought
his master called him off, and every man stood trembling, as they observed the captain feeling
for his pistols; but his strength failed him, the dog had met his teeth in the wound received
by the mismanagement of the harpoon, tearing the flesh nearly from off his limb. It really
was a pitiable sight to behold. Faint from the loss of blood, he was carried below, where his
wound was dressed by one of the men, having no regular surgeon aboard, consequently its fatality
was not realized. The groans and writhings of the sufferer were heart-rending; all day long
did he rave, imploring Sampson, who attended him, to "take the fiend away! that he was being
devoured alive!" and thus did he toss upon his bed till toward evening, when a change for the
worse came over him. Sampson saw that the seal of death was stamped upon his features, and
at set of sun, with an imprecation upon his dying lips, he had breathed his last. O, how fearful
to enter that spirit land thus unprepared! to come before our Judge with a soul stained in
the deepest sins, trembling with its burden of guilt. Lord, grant that we be not thus found
when thou shalt call! Give us strength to overcome the world, the flesh, and the devil, so
that at the last, we shall taste those joys which exist "where the wicked cease from troubling,
and the weary are at rest." They buried him in the deep sea. Perhaps his body lay side by side
with those who, through his unfeeling heart, had found a watery grave; but we trust that, unlike
him, they had gone to meet the reward of having lived an holy life,--gone to the "sailor's
home," in the skies.

The stars shone out, one by one, in the firmament, when the king of day had descended. Calmly
the night looked down, and undisturbed were Harry's thoughts, as seated upon the taffrail,
old Neptune by his side, he once again breathed the air of liberty. Not that he rejoiced that
he was thus freed from him who had kept him in perfect slavery, for he alone had dropped a
tear over the uncoffined burial of his persecutor; but his heart was filled with gratitude,
as he looked into the peerless night,--gratitude to Him who has given us a soul, that we may
admire the works of his hands. As Harry sat musing, turning from the heavenly orbs to their
semblance on the bosom of the placid waters, he observed, as it were, a fallen star, mirrored
therein, but rousing his dreamy senses, he found it was a small, shining object, floating near
them. He drew it from the water; it was a block of wood, in the form of an octagon, highly
polished, inlaid with bits of pearl, forming grotesque figures, and thickly studded with some
bright mineral, representing stars, which gave it a very handsome appearance.

"Well, if the youngster isn't picking up moonshine," remarked Sampson, examining the curiosity.
"Some poor fellow designed that for his sweetheart, likely; but I suppose it will make but
little difference with her, if she hears he's among the missing, she can just as well set her
colors for another. These bright-winged butterflies go upon the principle that 'there's as
good fish in the sea as ever was caught.'"

"O, ho, Sampson," cried the jolly faced mate, who had now taken the captain's berth, "you are
inclined to give the fair ones no quarters. I shouldn't wonder if they had given you the slip,
in some of your cruisings."

"Well, sir, nothing of that kind, exactly; I never had much notion for shipping under one captain
for life."

"A little frightened, eh?"

"Well, between you and I, I was a little skeery, for fear I should find my mate at the helm."

"Yes, but you don't mean to say woman is a craft sailing without a compass, do you? that is,
minus a heart?"

"Aye, aye, but it's hard to get in their wake. I never met but one whole-souled woman in my
life, and she has gone--where such as she do go. Ah, that was a hard time! I was the only one
saved of two hundred!"

"How was that, Sampson? come, spin us that yarn."

"Land ho! land ho!" hailed the lookout, and every eye welcomed Manilla, as they ran in for
repairs, after cruising about for months without taking a drop of oil. Harry was delighted
with the prospect before him, and laying the little curiosity, which would remind him of a
sad event in his voyage, away with his bible, he entered upon the duties before him with his
whole heart, realizing the visions of his earlier days, and gaining a thorough knowledge of--the
life of a sailor boy.

CHAPTER VI.

SOME DAYS ARE BORN OF SORROW.

  "The path of sorrow, and that path alone,
   Leads to the land where sorrows are unknown."

        ANONYMOUS.

  "Through sorrow's night, and danger's path,
     Amid the deepening gloom,
   Ye children of a heavenly king
     Are marching to the tomb."

        H. KIRKE WHITE.

It is a destiny, that every life be, to a greater or less degree, fraught with that heart-purifying
element, which we term sorrow. And who would have it otherwise? Who would glide passively along
the bright river of smiles, without one taste of that chiefest of disciplines, sorrow? How
grateful should we be to Him who has permitted us to drink of the same cup with his only Son!
for he was a "man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief." Who is so blind that will not see
the kind designs of our Father, in the disposition of those works of his hands which he pronounced
good. Truly His eye is all-seeing; the overflow of his tender mercies toward the children of
men are unbounded. What cell of goodness is there within the human heart, of which the breath
of sorrow cannot raise the valve? In a word, what countless numbers of souls have been stayed
in their mad career, have been saved from eternal destruction, through the chastening rod of
the Lord.

It was the morning after the sailing of the Nautilus; the Sea-flower had arisen with the sun,
and calling for old Nep, as was her wont, to accompany her on her morning's walk, she tripped
lightly along, humming a farewell to the last altheas, as they nodded their shrivelled heads,
in view of their departure; but their words of adieu were made brief, by a voice as of one
in distress; and coming near, it proved to be the musical Vingo, trilling the wild melodies
of his old Virginia days.

"Good morning, Vingo; you must have been up a long time to have been away down to the shore;
you must take it easier, and get more sleep. Even old Nep dislikes to leave his warm kennel
this cool morning, for he did not come at my call, and so I would not disturb him."

"Ah, missy, de old fellow am getting along in years as well as de rest ob us; and if it wasn't
for de gray hairs, dat will keep at de top ob de heap, in spite ob ebery ting, I should feel
dat old age am coming wid long strides, when I see dat de wee bud ob de Sea-flower am almost
in bloom. But see here, missy," said he, holding up a fresh cod which he had taken, "I'm tinking
dat make massa Harry's eyes sparkle."

It was the hour for family prayers.

"Had you not better go to Harry's room, dear, and see if he is ill this morning? he is unusually
late," said Mrs. Grosvenor.

"I tink de fragrance ob de salt water about dat cod fetch him soon," remarked Vingo, endeavoring
to smooth his face into a proper state of sobriety.

Gently the Sea-flower tapped at her brother's door, but receiving no answer, she ventured in;
the room was in the same order in which she had left it the day before, for she took great
pleasure in arranging the flowers upon his dressing table, and no one could impart such a coziness,
arranging everything to his mind, as could Sea-flower. The bed had not been disturbed, and
the book from which she had read to him, was lying thereon, opened at those beautiful verses
of "The Iris of the Deep," which he loved so well to hear her read. What could it mean? Calmly
her breath came and went; but for that she appeared like a beautiful piece of statuary, her
eyes turned upward, as if seeking for strength to meet the vague sense of desolation which
was creeping into her heart. Upon the table were two notes, one addressed to her mother, the
other to herself, in his hand-writing. With nerveless hand she broke the seal; no emotion was
visible, save the delicate glow upon her cheek, which came and went, and the playing of the
muscles about her compressed lips, as she read the following:

"My Sister--When you read this, I shall be far away, sailing over those glorious billows which
you and I love so well! You will miss me, for I know you love your erring brother, with all
his faults; and even you, who can realize what were my heart's desires, will hardly forgive
the step which brings such deep grief upon our mother; yet you will think of me with kindness,
for I know it cannot be otherwise. There is no spot within your heart of love which is not
occupied. Could I have left home with a mother's blessing, I should be happier; but she will
pray for her boy; the gentle breeze which fills our sail will bear her "God bless you" to the
ear of him who will think of the dear ones at home, until he shall once more fill his place
in that dearest of family circles, and thank God, my mother has such an one as you to lean
upon. Farewell, dear Sea-flower, until we meet again. BROTHER HARRY."

He had gone! Could it be possible? How could she speak those cruel words to her mother? Yet
it must be. With steady step she entered the drawing-room; the mother looked upon her child.
That which she would speak failed to give utterance. Instinctively soul sympathized with soul.

"Mother, we will breathe our morning supplication to Him who ordereth all things;" and the
Sea-flower, at that family altar, prayed that strength might be given them, that they might
be prepared for whatever was to be their portion, and her prayer was heard. Arising, Mrs. Grosvenor
sank into a chair; with an agitated voice she spoke,--

"My child, some dreadful thing has occurred! My son,--tell me, has he gone? for the same mysterious
power which bade me impress upon his mind last night, the value of the instructions, which,
I pray God, I have not been unfaithful in setting before him, tells me I shall not see my boy
again for many long days! Speak, my child, is it not so?"

"You have spoken too truly, mother; may you be able to bear up under this affliction;" and
she put the note into her mother's hand.

"My eyes fail me, my child! If it is not asking of you too much, tell me what were his last
words; they will fall more gently on my heart;" and the tones of the Sea-flower were of comfort
as she read:--

"My dear Mother--In the ship Nautilus, which will sail from this port on the 20th of October,
I have shipped for a Cape Horn voyage. You will hardly believe what you read; nevertheless,
it is true. I was very much disappointed that I could not go with father, and thought I would
wait patiently until his return; but gaining permission from my present captain to accompany
him, I could not resist the temptation. I know I shall do very wrong in going away without
your consent, but forgive me, if you can, mother; 't is the only act in which I have ever given
you sorrow, or by which I ever shall. You shall hear from me as often as I can get an opportunity
of sending home, and it will not be a great while before I shall be with you again. I shall
not forget my prayers night and morning; and I know you will not cease to pray for your son,
though he should fall to the lowest depths of degradation. Tell father, when you write him,
that I have disobeyed his word; but ask him if he cannot forgive me. It is possible that I
may meet with him upon the ocean, and may we both be spared to make you happy, my dear mother.
Farewell, from your affectionate son."

"I do forgive you, my son, in this cruel step which you have taken; indeed, but how could he
do thus? Oh, how could he!" and Mrs. Grosvenor, overcome with her emotion, sank back in her chair.

"De good Lord be praised, missy! but I not tink it eber come to dis. To be sure, massa Wendall
often tell me, eber since dat day, dat I getting too full ob laugh, dat one extreme follow
anoder; but I never tink young massa take hesef clean off!" and, wiping the whites of his eyes,
he went out to hunt up old Nep to share his grief; but he soon returned, and locking the door
after him, proceeded to fasten every window in the house.

Sea-flower, who was bathing her mother's temples, observing what the negro was about, was at
a loss to account for his movements; but knowing he disliked to be questioned upon points touching
his judgment, she humored him by letting him have his own way, till finally, he peered into
his mistress's face, and in a voice scarcely above a whisper, said, "Dar, missy, de rest ob
us am safe! he no cotch any more dis time!"

"What is it? Vingo, what has happened?"

"Ah, little missy, if I wasn't clean gone tuck! 'pears like I never shall get ober it."

"What is the matter, Vingo?"

"Well, missy Sea-flower, I tinks it am de ebil one dat has taken dem away, after all; for dat
dog neber go 'way peaceably wid anyting short ob de debil; he got too much de spirit ob his
massa to be afeard ob anyting dat belong on dis earth!"

"Is Neptune gone, too, Vingo?"

"Yes, missy, dar not eben a shadow left ob him; and, [the negro had a remarkable imagination],
'pears like I see de print ob a cloben tread in de soft ground, by his door; and among de hay
de old fellow hab lef some ob his plunder trough mistake."

Sea-flower hastened to the dog's kennel, and there indeed was a small parcel, folded neatly
in white paper, but no trace of the dog was to be seen; opening the package, there was a small
locket, containing the likeness of her mother and herself, which had been left upon the parlor
table, but how it came in the dog's kennel was a mystery.

"Oh, our faithful Neptune! how much we shall miss him! It must be that he has gone with his
master; but perhaps it is all for the best."

"I tinks eberyting should be ob de best for you, missy; 'pears like if my poor old Phillis
could get used to de tribilations, like you do, it help to make de road easier; but I specks
she neber learn how."

"O, Vingo, it makes my heart bleed to think that your people have no opportunities for learning
that they may cast their burdens on the Lord. I cannot imagine anything more dreadful than
the ignorance in which the slaves are kept."

"Yes, missy, I neber remembers much about it till I leabes old Berginny; some how or oder,
I finds out dat old massa's people hab a God, but I neber 'spect he know anyting 'bout poor
black man."

Days and months passed on, as the lonely days of sorrow do come, and go, and come again; but
as the lengthened shades of the summer solstice had again become less, another cloud had arisen
in the firmament of mingled joys and sorrows, threatening to encompass even the bright rays
of hope within its gloom.

Mrs. Grosvenor had written her husband of the conduct of their truant son, as Harry had wished,
and had in reply received his full forgiveness for the boy. Captain Grosvenor had written that
he much regretted not having taken Harry along with him, "for," said he, "a second thought
would have convinced me that the boy had too much of the spirit of his father to remain contentedly
on shore; he has but followed in my footsteps, for I never shall forget the night I stole away
from my father's house, when I was but ten years old, and went to sea. Yes, tell my boy that
I forgive him, yet it annoys me very much that you and our dear Natalie are left alone, my
wife; but at the rate we have been doing, it will not be long before we shall be homeward bound."

Nearly a twelvemonth had passed since this letter had been received; not a word had been heard
of the Tantalizer for a long time; several ships had returned which had left since she had
sailed, but they had brought no tidings of her. Over a year had passed since she was last reported,
and her owners began to look doubtful in regard to her fate; and there were rumors that the
Tantalizer was counted among the missing vessels, yet no one dared to breathe the thought to
the still hoping family, while there was the least possibility that she might be heard from
again; and who would wish to be the first to pronounce that gentle wife a widow? Darker and
still deeper grew the overshadowing cloud, and the hopes of the trusting ones less. Mrs. Grosvenor
would sit for whole days brooding over her sorrows, clinging to the last ray of hope, with
almost the insanity of hope; but the last spark finally went out, never again to be rekindled.
The untiring wheels of time still went their rounds, and everything moved on, as if there were
no hearts beating in discordant measure to the joyous song of nature. Sympathizing friends
pitied the afflicted, and the world read,--"A noble ship lost at sea! all on board supposed
to have perished! Ship and cargo valued at thirty thousand dollars; no insurance!" and they
exclaim,--"ah, the sailor's life is indeed hard!" But they dwell upon the latter clause of
the paragraph with as much real pity, the words fall upon their ear, conveying as much of real
sadness to their minds, as that many families have been called to mourn the loss of one of
their members. The Sea-flower could hardly become reconciled to the thought that she would
never see her father more, yet for her mother's sake she suppressed her grief, endeavoring
to soothe her weary spirits by those refreshing promises of Him who dries the mourner's tear,--binding
up the wounds of the broken-hearted.

"Dear mother, we are called upon to bear a heavy trial; this is indeed a bitter, bitter draught,
yet we must not forget 'tis our Father holds the cup. You have taught me to smile upon his
chastening rod, but in this dark hour of trial truly the flesh is weak; yet we will rest upon
the strength of His arm, He will not forsake us; and, mother, His ways indeed are higher than
our ways. How tenderly has he dealt with us, inasmuch as he has so ordered that our dear Harry
should be spared to us; for as I look upon the past, I can see nothing but the kindly interference
of his will, that my brother did not share the same grave with his father."

"My darling, your precious words shed light over my weary pathway. I fear that I have sinned
in thus murmuring at God's will, for I would not see his loving kindness in sparing to me my
boy. But it is so very hard,--so dreadful,--that in that hour when his spirit winged its way
to that better land, we might not pause from our worldly pursuits, turning our eyes heavenward;
craving strength to bear our cross; but your words of love, my child, remind me of that Being
who is the fountain-head of loveliness, and I thank God for his gift of you."

"If I am a comfort to you, mother, it is through your influence, for you have taught me to
walk in the paths of virtue."

"True, I have pointed out to you the ways of righteousness, but when you looked upon that bright
river of life, I observed that its waters were no less tranquil, and mirrored upon its bosom
was one more shining star; and it has been increasing in magnitude, till now its radiance illumes
even the bright river itself."

So did the Sea-flower gather together the broken threads of this family, weaving them closer
with that golden thread of tender remembrance of him who had gone to await them for a little
in that happier home above; this family, of which she had never the slightest suspicion but
that they were of her own flesh and blood; and as she sat with her hand clasped within that
of her mother's, reading from that blessed book, "Come unto me all ye that are weary," Mrs.
Grosvenor could not but notice the striking resemblance which she bore to those lovely features
of the miniature, which was found within the golden band. The child was growing to resemble
her unknown mother, and were there any who had ever known the parents, to see their child,
they could not but have discovered her descent. As the thought came to Mrs. Grosvenor's mind,
she shuddered; and she asked herself if it could ever be that her darling should be torn from
her? if another cloud would arise, hiding one more cherished one from her sight? But why should
she tremble at the thought? she well knew there could be nothing, not even the discovery of
relatives, which could lessen her daughter's love for her mother. Not a word had ever been
said to the child in regard to her mysterious parentage. Captain Grosvenor had thought it best
not to reveal the fact until she should have become of a suitable age to fully realize her
situation. Those who had known the circumstances of her discovery, had gradually come to look
upon her as the child of those who treasured her as if she had been their own; and the playmates
of her childhood days had never mistrusted there was a mystery hanging about her "romantic"
name,--Sea-flower. Harry, indeed, had never forgotten his delight at having a new sister; and
as they had grown up together, he had often looked into her dreamy eyes, and thought, "How
unlike she is to any one else; she is too good to be my sister;" and as the reality came to
him, he had banished the remembrance, ere it had taken to itself a form. The original Vingo
had never lost sight of "that commentful" day, as he termed it; not a day passed but he made
some allusion to "dat wee gem among de sea-weeds," and the Sea-flower would open wide her eyes,
as from his wild laugh she caught his broken sentences, and would wonder why the negro's words
should meet with such a response within her own bosom. The child's dress, together with the
ornaments which had been found upon her, had been laid carefully away, reserved until she should
have become familiar with her history. But Mrs. Grosvenor, since the loss of her husband, had
weighed the question in her mind, whether she should still keep the secret from her, for the
child's mind was much beyond her years, and she questioned whether it would be for the best
to permit her to grow to maturer years thus undeceived; but she reflected that such had been
the design of her husband, and, therefore, for the present, the subject was dismissed from
her mind.

It was the close of the third year in which Harry had been from home. Mrs. Grosvenor had received
four letters from him in that time. His last had stated they were doing well, that he was under
one of the kindest of captains, and all that was wanting to make him perfectly happy, was to
see his dear mother, and the rest of the family once more. Poor boy, he little thought that
there was one of its members whom he would never see again, until he had passed over that sea
from which no navigator ever returns! Harry had never written his mother of the brutal treatment
which he had received from his first captain, but he had said that Neptune had been the means
of saving his life, and that the old fellow was getting to be quite a sailor, inasmuch as he
could take a turn on the quarter-deck with as much dignity as the captain himself. It had been
some time since Harry's last letter had been received, and now Mrs. Grosvenor was anxiously
looking for news from him, with a state of mind prepared for receiving almost anything, so
fraught with sad events had been the last few years, when one day Vingo was seen far down the
street, coaxing his time-wearied limbs into a run, and bursting into the room, he stood panting
in the middle of the floor, grinning with delight, and holding at arm's length a letter, which
Mrs. Grosvenor recognized as coming from her son. The Sea-flower read the letter aloud, and
when Vingo learned that massa Harry was homeward bound, he could contain himself no longer;
it seemed as if he would go beside himself at the thought of having his young massa home once
more, for everything had appeared so different since he went away; there had been so many changes,
that the fellow had really had his fears that it might be his turn next to be taken off, and
he had often had visions of his old slave massa in nearer proximity than was at all consistent
with his ideas of liberty.

"De good Lord be praised!" exclaimed the negro, as Sea-flower ceased reading; "dis am too good
news for old black man live me! but I knew de bright sunshine not be contented to stay away
from missy Sea-flower long. I tinks missy get along better widout him, dan he can widout her;
but dar am some poor souls dat neber sees de shine, making dem feel as full ob sing as a camp-meeting!"
and the negro gave a deep sigh at the remembrance of his poor old Phillis, who was, for aught
he knew, still wearing the accursed yoke of slavery.

"Poor things! poor things!" sighed the Sea-flower; "I would willingly share with them my joys,
were it in my power. Theirs would be a lighter burden to those who have learned of that glorious
home, where the resplendent shining of its bright ones is forever! But they, alas, have no
bright future to look forward to, giving them renewed strength to bear their cross; or if they
ever hear of that All-Father who hears the cry of the most wretched of his children, their
masters would have them believe that he is but the white man's God! Oh, Vingo, how could you
have had the heart to believe that God would disown his children?"

"Dunno, missy; but 'pears like de slabe jus' no more chilen dan de oder animals; and I tinks
old massa done teach de hounds about de big bible, sooner dan he niggers."

"What became of your wife, Vingo, when father took you away? Could you not prevail on your
master to let her come with you?"

"O, missy, old Bingo hoe in de cotton field great many long years since he sot eyes on poor,
torn-down Phillis, or the young uns."

"The little ones! and had you some children, Vingo?"

"Ah! if I known how to praise de good Lord in dem days, I specks I shouted for joy, when I
see de wee creters burstin' wid de laugh; and Phillis, she clean tuck ober, to see them fist
each oder wid dar little feet, 'pearing like dey hab inherit all de peruigilinations ob dar
daddy; and den de little creters change dar minds, and burst into de smiles again. O, dem was
happy days! and I and Phillis tink we just de pleasantest creters in de whole ob Berginny;
and we takes de young uns out wid us to de cotton field, and after dey gets use to de hot sun
in dar eyes, dey crawl round on de ground, snatchin' up de bits ob cotton, like dey hab been
use to it all dar days; and we not mind it much if old oberseer did gib us a lash ober de head,
'casionally, when we stops to cotch a bref, long as we habs de young uns to lift us up a bit.
But dem days not stay long, for one day dar come a fierce looking man, from way down in Kentuck,
and as he went ober de plantation, I oberhears him saying to massa, dat he must hab just de
smartest, good-looking niggars dat could be scared up, for dar was one ob de richest men in
Kentuck dat was willing to pay any price for dem; but dey must be made ob de right material,
for he worked his niggars, and cut dem up so, dat he hab to get in a fresh supply ebery now
and den. Dat was death-blow to me, for I knew my Phillis was considered de smartest, best looking
gal on de plantation; for many a time I hear massa say, dat gal worth a dozen common ones,
and he spoke de truth for once, for I knows dar neber was anoder like her. Well, I tells Phillis
dat night what I hears, and I tells her to jus slack off a little, and put on her worst look
when de man come round next day, and perhaps dey oberlook her; but 'pears like we didn't get
much comfort from dat, and all night long we keeps awake, for we couldn't help tinking dat
might be de last time we eber see each oder again; for we neber hear ob de good place den,
where we might meet when slabe massa get trough wid us. De next morning, afore de broke ob
day, massa and de trader comes round to our cabin, and seeing Phillis at de door, putting de
young uns to rights, and clarin' up a little, 'fore we goes out to de field, de fierce man
cracked his whip, and jumping ober de young uns, caught Phillis by de arm, and whirling her
round and round, called out, 'I say, mister, dis ere's de likelist critter I've sot eyes on
dis many a day! I must hab dis one at any price!, Old Killall be good-natured a month, when
he sees dis handsome critter; but if he don't use her up in less dan dat time, he'll do what
he neber done afore! I tell you, sar, it's surprisin' to see how much work he'll get out ob
his niggars; goes ahead ob anyting you eber heard ob; dat's de way he's made such a power ob
money. He says he's tried it faithfully, year in and year out, and he's thoroughly convinced
dat de way to make anyting by dis niggar business, is to get de work; if dey wont work widout
de whip, why, put it on! get dar steam up some way or oder, and when one lot gibs out, get
a fresh stock! I'll tell you what, sir, Killall understands it; he'll sell dar hides for shoe
leather radder dan let his niggars stand idle!' When I hear dat, missy, my bery blood boil,
and 'pears like I couldn't keep my hands off from de villain; but I know dat if I make any
resistance, it fare all de worse wid Phillis, and I get sent to de whippin'-place, into de
bargain; so I only grind my teeth, and look on, like I didn't know any better; but, missy,
didn't I wish I white man den, jus' for de sake ob sabin' my wife and young uns? for I lib
wid Phillis so long I couldn't help feeling 'tached to her. Ole massa, he not 'pear to like
de idea ob parting wid Phillis jus den, for he know right well dat he not get anoder like her
bery soon, and so he tells de trader dat de niggar 'pear bery well, but as for de real work,
he got a dozen dat go ahead ob her, and if de gemman want de real workin' niggar, dey step
round de oder side de plantation; but de trader, he keep his eye on Phillis, like he understand
de business too well to be put off dat way, and he say to massa, tell you what 'tis, mister,
dat gal may not hab de genuine work 'bout her now, but if she get tinder old Killall's lash,
dar be no trouble bout dat, and den when she good for notin' else, after de work all out ob
her, she might keep a little ob her looks, 'nough to make her go for a hundred or so. But massa,
he not like to gib her up, and dey talk a long time togeder, and I hears de trader say,--'de
gal should square off all de old affair, wid five hundred to boot;' till by and by massa gibs
in, and de bargain was closed, bery much to de satisfaction ob both parties. But dey not stop
to ask how we like de idea ob being separated for life! dey not tink dat perhaps de mother
find it hard to leabe her chil'en. De trader 'pear bery much pleased wid his bargain, and he
slipped a cord round Phillis's arm, and tell her to go wid him. O, missy, dat was de awfullest
minute in my life! Poor Phillis look at de chil'en, den at me, and wid one long, piercing shriek,
dat I hear many times since, she clung round my neck, begging me to go wid her, to sabe her
from de dreadful place where dey would take her! But afore I could say one word, the trader,
wid a dreadful curse, seize her by de throat, and in his hurry to get her away, stumbled ober
one ob de young uns wid his great heaby boots, dat was made 'spressly to kick de fractious
niggars, as he called it, and de chile neber breathe again! he had step clean on to its neck,
strangling it in an instant! At de sight ob her chile, all bleedin', and still, poor Phillis
become all quiet, and her eyes were shut, just like good missus, when she find massa Harry
take hesef away. Ole massa he 'pear rather sober like, when he find one ob his niggars killed,
for he sot a heap on de young uns dat was comin' up, 'cause dey be big enough soon to be ob
some 'count; but de trader hand ober fifty dollar bill, to make de accident good, and took
de opportunity to get away, 'fore Phillis come to again; but dey not say any ting to me 'bout
my loss, and 'pears like dey could not cober de great break in my heart, wid all de fifty dollar
bills in Berginny. Dat was de last time I eber sees my Phillis. I specks by dis time dey hab
got de work all out ob her, and I hopes dey hab, missy; for though she neber hear ob dat place
where all are made bright, I know she good enough to find de way; but I hopes she not be too
full ob shine, coz I fraid I not know her from de white folks."

"I hope you will meet her there, indeed, Vingo: for after such a separation here, how great
will be your joy. I feel assured that the poor down-trodden negro will not be in that day forgotten;
the dreadful curse which hangs over your race will then be explained, and I fear there will
be many called to an account for the wrongs which they have done their fellow-men. But what
became of your child, Vingo? Did you not feel grateful that one of your dear ones was spared
to you?"

"Ah, missy, I tinks dar no place for gratitude in de slabe's heart; and sometimes I specks
I neber hab a heart, till missy Sea-flower spare me a part ob hers. Well, after Phillis and
de young un tuck away, 'pears like I neber look up any more; and if it not for de little Phillis
dat was left, I tink I clean gib up. I takes her wid me to de cotton field, and she lay and
look at me all day long, so strange like, as if she want to know why we dar all alone; and
at night I feed her wid de corn-cake, like her poor mammy used to do, and at eb'ry mouthful
she look up in my face, den at de door, to see if its mammy not comin'. After a while I gets
a little used to de ache, which I hab since Phillis tuck away, and all de time I not at work
in de field, I takes care ob de young un, to keep from hearing dat awful shriek, when one mornin'
I wakes up, and de little Phillis nowhar' to be seen, and I's neber seen her since, missy."

"They could not surely have robbed you of your only comfort! O, how dreadful!"

"Yes, missy; I inquires all round if dey see anyting ob my Phillis, but I gets only a laugh
from one, and a curse from anoder; for eben de slabe get so used to de hard treatment ob dar
massa, dat dey sometimes show de same spirit towards dar fellows, specially if dey happens
to be clean tuck down wid the 'blue imps,' as dey calls it. At last I asks a poor, broken-down
ting, dat hab all her young uns sold away from her only a day or two afore, if she know anyting
'bout my young un, and she tells me dar hab been a sale ob a dozen young uns, on de plantation,
and she sees massa, long afore day-broke, pack dem into a wagon, and dey carried off. I knows
den it no use to look for her any longer, and de more I grows to look down, 'pears like de
more dey laughs at me, and dey calls me 'dat moon-hit niggar.' I gets so stupid after a while,
dat massa threatens to sell me way down whar dey works de niggars up; and I gets so, I don't
care how much dey whips me, or anyting else, for I tinks I neber be mysef again, when one day
massa takes me wid him down to de boats, to fotch de cotton, and I hears de captain ask, what
ail dat fellow to look so blue, and massa tells him, I got a notion dat I hab a right to keep
my wife and young uns, like I hab de feelin's ob white folks. Den de captain talk wid massa
'bout buyin' me, and I got to be such a torn-down critter, massa glad to let me go for most
anyting, for de sake ob gettin' rid ob me. When de bargain struck, my new masa Grobener claps
me on de shoulder, and says, 'now, my man, come wid me, and see if we can't gib a better 'plexion
to matters.' Dem was de first kind words I eber hears from de white man, and after dat I springs
right up, like de wilted roses missy brought to life de oder day; and when de Sea-flower come
to us, I tink she sent to smooth ober de rough places, dat hab been gathering trough de long
years ob my life in slabery."

"Yours is a sad history, Vingo, and I am happy if I have helped to make your pathway pleasanter;
but do not look upon your life in slavery as having been unprofitably spent, for the very darkness
through which you have come, serves to make brighter that glorious light which is now shed
o'er your way. Your sad tale has impressed me with renewed gratitude to our Father for his
mercies towards me; and while I thank him for the many blessings which I have received from
his hand, my heart shall also praise him that with these joys have been mingled,--the purifying
light of his chastening love."

CHAPTER VII.

NATALIE.

  "If ever angels walked this weary earth
   In human likeness, thou wert one of them."

        ANONYMOUS.

        MOORE.

"Sampson, Mr. Sampson! just step this way, and bring your eye to bear a little to the nothe-nothe-east,
and tell me what you make."

"Make, boy, make!" exclaimed Sampson, thrusting a huge piece of pigtail into his already overcharged,
capacious mouth, "I suppose you would have me believe that you'd made the light of some sweet-heart's
eyes, outshining even old Sankoty itself."

"Three years ago, do you remember it, Sampson, when I was a mere stripling, you took me aside,
and pointed out a dim light, away down to the water's edge, and told me I would have seen different
days before I made it again? Do you think I can ever forget it? I could tell its light from
among a thousand! As I caught its last rays then, it seemed to me the pensive, forgiving smile
of my mother, for, as you know, I came away from home without my mother's consent; but I long
ago received her forgiveness, and everything will be forgotten in the happiness which we shall
enjoy at meeting once more. And my father, he is at home by this time! How surprised they will
all be to see me grown almost to be a man! I hope the Sea-flower is the same little fairy still.
She will not always be a bud, however; yet the opening flower has greater charms."

"Bless my stars! boy, are you losing your senses?" asked the astonished Sampson, as Harry walked
the deck in raptures, talking as fast as his tongue could fly, as it appeared to the old tar,
in riddles.

"What's got into your head, boy? I have always taken you to be the most sensible person aboard,
but shiver my topsails, if the fellow don't talk as if he expected to find old Vineyard Sound
turned into a flower garden, with a fairy made fast to every other blossom!"

As Sampson delivered himself of this ludicrous remark, Harry burst into a loud fit of laughter,
and handing the tar his glass, he sang out "Sankoty light, ahoy!" which brought all hands on
deck in an instant, rubbing open their eyes, (for it was but the second watch in the morning,)
to catch sight of the first object visible of their homes.

"Three cheers for old Nantucket, and young Grosvenor!" shouted the captain; and the ready huzza
which went up, amid the waving of sundry flannel shirts, old boots, and forsaken tarpaulins,
which had been caught up by the unshorn tars, as the sound of their near proximity to home
aroused them from the dreamy visions thereof to the vivid realities, were borne over the waters
which separated them from thence, deceiving the red-combed heralds of the day into the belief
of an early dawn, judging from the signs of recognition which met their approach, as the first
tinge of red lit up the eastern sky.

Nobly the good ship Nautilus bore down to the bar, setting heavily on the water, and the good
twenty-five hundred with which she was laden, was no less weighty than the handfuls of silver
which danced o'er the minds of the glad sailor boys, as they neared their native shore. None
were more light-hearted at the prospect before them than Harry Grosvenor; not that he had become
weary of the sailor's life, for he loved the ocean with the same free, wild love as when three
years before, it had beckoned his boyish heart to brave its perils; but his joy, as the endeared
objects of his home, one by one, welcomed him in his fancy, was unbounded, and he could not
realize that he should so soon greet the dear ones who had been the subjects of his most precious
thoughts, through the many days which had separated them.

"Well, my boy," said Sampson, as he grasped Harry by the hand, "we've sailed under a clear
sky for the most of the time, and we've held together about as good as the strongest, but there's
no use in shedding fresh water tears over it, for I'm thinking this'll not be your last voyage,
and as for me, there's nothing to hinder my hanging around this little sand-heap a bit longer;
and who knows but we may try it again some day. Who knows? ah, who knows that John Sampson
is not lying at this moment at the bottom of the sea? Who is there that cares to know?"

"This, I know, is not your home, Mr. Sampson; but have you not one friend? is there no spot
in the wide world which is dear to you? is there not one who will welcome you home?"

"All places are the same to me, and I can truly say, there is not a person on the whole earth
that would 'bout ship' to get a look at me. To be sure, I was brought up somehow, till I was
able to take myself up, but by whom, or where, is farther back than the story goes; all I know
is, I found myself, at six years old, on the top of a London dust heap, taking a survey of
the great metropolis. Whether I was left there by the refuse gatherers, to come under the head
of starved dogs, or whether I was accidentally dropped by my lawful owner, it don't make much
difference. Well, I shook the dust out of my eyes, and made for the water, and I've lived on
the water for the most part ever since. But there's one comfort about it, I've never been troubled
with poor relations," added he, jocosely.

"Mr. Sampson, yours is a strange history, and what is stranger still, that you have not, in
all your yarns in the forecastle, spun us this one. But have you never, in all your wanderings,
met with those whom, you can call your friends?"

"A rough old tar like me, I must say, would not be the most inviting craft to interchange signals
with, but, thank God, I have found one, in my long life of wanderings who was worthy the name
of friend! but she, kind, beautiful lady, is gone;" and the rough tar drew his sleeve across
his eyes, and turning toward the island, muttered,--"twelve, yes, fifteen years ago this very
month, and I the only one saved! I worked hard, but it was of no use; it was to be. I'd gladly
have gone down to have saved her."

"Well, Sampson, I think it is you who are losing your senses now," said Harry, as he listened
to his inaudible words; "but you shall not say you have not a friend so long as my craft sails
the ocean, for I never shall forget your kindness to me and my faithful old Nep, while exposed
to the harsh treatment of our former captain; and depend upon it, you will have made other
true friends, when the dear ones at home shall have heard of your generous conduct. I have
one of the best of mothers, Mr. Sampson, and a sister who would make you a better man to look
into her heaven-speaking eyes! A likeness of her was among my valuables when I left home, but
it has been by some means mislaid."

"A better man, eh? well, there's room enough for that! I shall have to lie under a close reef,
and by the help of my glass, I may get sight of her some day."

The crew of the Nautilus, after having made themselves as tidy as a six months' beard, and
a suit of three years' usage would admit, prepared to go ashore. Gabriel was not hurt, but sadly
ruffled inwardly and outwardly, though, next day, he was quite happy and apparently unconscious
of his narrow escape. But alas! some months later Reynard paid another visit, and poor Gabriel was
never seen again. Some years after we bought another pair, not nearly so tame as the first,
and sometimes flying on to the cottage roofs and scraping holes in the thatch in which to bask in
the sun. The villagers complained that the birds sat under their black currant bushes, and
devoured the currants as fast as they ripened! We could not keep them within bounds, and later
sold them to St. John's College, Oxford, where we saw them soon afterwards in good plumage, and exactly
in keeping with their beautiful surroundings.

One of my neighbours appeared to find these birds a special infliction, and complained of the invasion
of his premises by "them paycocks." The word "pea" is always rendered "pay" in Worcestershire,
and, like "tay" for "tea," is probably the old correct pronunciation. I lately saw a notice
on some tumble-down premises near Southampton, "Pay and bane stiks for sale." Another notice,
not too happily composed, is to be seen at a Forest village; after the owner's name, "Carpenter,
builder and undertaker-- repairs neatly executed."

The neighbour referred to was exercised in his mind as to my position in various unwelcome parochial
offices, but I was completely mystified when he told me that he had read in history of a King
Alfred, but had never heard of a King Arthur. I did not grasp the force of his remark, possibly
because King Arthur was a familiar character to me, until I was nearly at my own door, when
it dawned upon me to my intense enjoyment. If the reader fails, like me, to see the point,
let him turn to the title-page of this book, and read the name of
the writer.

The only real objection to peacocks, under ordinary conditions, is the discordance of their cries,
especially in thundery weather, when they scream in answer to every thunder-clap. Cock pheasants,
relatives of the peacock, crow loudly at any unusual noise; and I
have known them expostulate at the report of a gun; they took flight,
after running to a safe distance, and their crow appeared to be in
the nature of a challenge or defiance, just as a barn-door cock will
exult if you give him the idea that he has driven you away.

When the vessel which carried the coffin of Queen Victoria was crossing the Solent, in 1901, some
very heavy salutes were fired from the battleships, and, the day being still and the air clear,
the detonations carried to an immense distance.

They were distinctly heard at Moreton-in-the-Marsh, only fourteen miles from Aldington and
a distance of nearly one hundred miles from the guns, in a direct line. The reports were so
loud at Woodstock, near Oxford, that the pheasants began crowing
in the Blenheim preserves.

At
Alton there were some extensive woods and coppices on the farm, which were favourite breeding-places
for pheasants, being dry and sunny. Some months before October 1, when pheasant shooting begins,
a white pheasant was seen, and although he disappeared for a time,
he fell eventually to the gun of the tenant.

He was a beautiful bird, and was considered worth stuffing as a rarity.

Albinism is not uncommon in the blackbird; I have seen two partial instances lately; one was
constantly visible in my garden and meadows, with head nearly all
white, and the other I saw in the public garden at Bournemouth, with
the peculiarity still more developed.

A white martin, or swallow, came into the house of a friend near Aldington, and was regarded
as an unfavourable omen. Melanism, the opposite of albinism, is rarer, and the only instance
I have seen was that of a black bullfinch at Aldington; it had evidently been mobbed as a stranger
by other birds of its kind, as it was injured and nearly dead when captured. I had the specimen
stuffed as a curiosity, though I am not fond of stuffed birds. It is said that hemp-seed, if given
in undue quantities to cage bullfinches, will produce the black colour, even upon a bird of
quite natural plumage originally, and a case of the kind is mentioned
by Gilbert White.

Aldington, with its quiet apple orchards and the "island" and shrubberies below my garden, was a happy
refuge for birds of all kinds, and the old pollard-willow heads a favourite nesting-place. Worcestershire
people have some very curious names for birds, and some of these are also heard in Hampshire and Dorset.
The green woodpecker is the "stock-eagle," "ekal," or "hickle," both in Worcestershire and Hampshire,
and the word survives too in "Hickle Brook" in the Forest, and in "Hickle Street," a part of
Buckle Street in Worcestershire. As a boy I once marked a green woodpecker into one of the
round holes we see quite newly cut by the bird in an oak; getting a butterfly net I clapped it
over the hole, caught the bird, took it home and placed it in a wicker cage. Then, returning to
the tree with a chisel and mallet, I cut a hole about a foot below the entrance to the nest,
only to find young birds instead of the eggs for which I had hoped. I went home to see how my
captive was getting on; she was gone, and her method of escape was plain, one or two of the wicker
bars being neatly cut through. I had forgotten the power of "stocking" of a "stock-eagle," for
that is the meaning of the prefix in the name.

The laughing cry of the green woodpecker, or "yaffle," as the bird is by onomatopoeia called in
some parts, is regarded as a sign of rain. I doubt whether it should be always so interpreted,
for I know it is sometimes a sign of distress or call for help, having heard it from one in
full flight from a pursuing hawk. Other curious local names of birds in Worcestershire are "Blue
Isaac" for hedge sparrow, "mumruffin" for long-tailed tit, "maggot" for magpie, and the heron
is always called "bittern" (really quite a distinct bird). There are innumerable rhymes as to
the signification of numbers where magpies are concerned, but the most complete I have heard
runs thus: "One's joy, two's grief, Three's marriage, four's death,
Five's heaven, six is hell, Seven's the devil his own sel'."

Other rhymes make "one" an unlucky number, and there are many people in Worcestershire who never
see a solitary magpie without touching their hats to avert the omen,
and convert it to one of good-luck; as a man once said to me, "It
is as well not to lose a chance."

The kingfisher, I suppose the most beautiful of British birds, was,
with all my brooks, a common bird at Aldington. Its steady flight,
following the course of a stream, and its brilliant colouring make
it very conspicuous, its turquoise blue varying to dark green, and
its orange breast flashing in the sun.

I found a nest in a water-rat's old hole, with six very transparent white eggs, deriving a rosy
tint from the yolk, almost visible, within the shell. The hole had an entrance above the bank, descended
vertically, turned at a right angle where the nest, merely a layer of small fish-bones, was placed, and
ended horizontally on the side of the bank. I once saw six young kingfishers sitting side by side
on a dead branch, close together, evidently just out of the nest. And I was fortunate in seeing
a kingfisher dart upon the water, hover for an instant like a hawk-moth over honeysuckle, and,
having caught a small gudgeon, fly away with it in its beak. They,
like the martin, always perch on leafless wood, so that the leaves
shall not impede their flight when pouncing upon a fish, and no doubt
this is the reason they sometimes perch on the top joint of the rod
of a hidden fisherman.

The nuthatch, called here the "mud-dauber," from its habit of narrowing the hole of a starling's
old nest, with mud, for its own use as a nesting-place, is a more common bird in the Forest
than in Worcestershire. It is a provident bird, firmly wedging hazel nuts in the autumn into crevices
of the Scots-fir, for a winter store, Bewick mentions that it uses these crevices as vices, to hold
the nut securely, while it cracks it; but he does not recognize the
fact that they have been stored long previously. I have seen a great
number of nuts so stored and quite sound.

Bewick, by the way, who wrote his History of British Birds in 1797, presents in one of his inimitable
"tailpiece" wood-cuts a prevision of the aeroplane. The picture shows the airman seated in a winged
car, guiding with reins thirteen harnessed herons as the motive power, and mounting upwards, apparently
very near the moon. If he can see the modern interpretation of his dream he must be pleasantly surprised.
Bewick's woodcock is one of the most beautiful portraits in the book: the accurate detail of the feather
markings of the wings and back and the softer tone of the breast
are as nearly perfection as possible.

A woodcock visited Aldington in one of the very severe winters but
managed to elude all pursuers. It has been said, and also contradicted,
that the woodcock when rising from the ground uses its long bill
as a lever to assist its starting, just as an oarsman pushes off from
the bank with a boat-hook or oar; I myself have seen one rising from
a bare and marshy place, and the position of its bill certainly gave
me the impression that the idea was well founded.

The woodcock often breeds in the south of England, but is usually a migrating bird, arriving
during the first moon in November; it is not difficult to shoot when
it first rises, but when steam is really up and it is zig-zagging
between the branches of an oak, it takes a good shot to make sure
of it.

I shall never forget the first woodcock I shot as a boy; it was a thick misty day in November,
I fired, and though I felt certain I had not missed, the smoke hung and the air was too thick to
see, and, after a long search, I left the wood and was going home when our old spaniel, Flush,
turned his head to examine something in a deep cart rut.

Following the direction of his eyes, I saw my woodcock; it must have flown 100 yards or more after
I fired. I was still more pleased with the last shot I fired in our old Surrey covers at a woodcock
going like an express train-- and faster, for they are said to fly at the rate of 150 miles an
hour-- with all his tricks, through thick branches in the adjoining cover, where he fell at least
65 yards from where I stood. A friend of mine had the good-fortune
to see an old woodcock, which had evidently bred in his woods, flying,
followed by five or six young ones; he said it was one of the prettiest
bits of natural history he had ever seen.

"If a woodcock had a partridge's breast He'd be the best bird that ever was dressed; If a partridge
had a woodcock's thigh He'd be the best bird that ever did fly."
is a very old description, and fairly divides the honours between the
two birds.

The hawfinch is very easily recognized by its distinct and beautiful colouring; it is a shy bird,
and though it bred regularly at Aldington, we rarely saw it. It is commoner here, and is sometimes
very destructive, its powerful beak making havoc with the "marrowfats"; but, though I am partial
to green peas of this description, I would sooner suffer some damage
than have the hawfinches shot.

In 1918 the cuckoos were exceedingly numerous here, and round my house they were calling all
day long. Owing to the terrible winter and early spring months of the previous year, so many of
the insectivorous birds had been destroyed, that the caterpillars had escaped, and were more
numerous than ever in the following spring. The oaks in places were
completely stripped of their foliage by the larvae of Tortrix viridana,
almost as soon as the leaves were out.

The cuckoos discovered them, but were not in sufficient numbers to keep them down, and it
was midsummer before the trees recovered. I have referred to the
damage in my plum orchard at Aldington from the attack of the larvae
of the winter-moth; the damage is not confined to the actual year
of its occurrence, the crop suffers the following year owing to the
previous defoliation of the tree, which is weakened and is unable
to mature healthy fruit buds.

At Aldington, in a hot summer, the cuckoos used to call nearly all night, and I have heard them when
it was quite dark. For some years, until 1918, goldfinches were quite
common in Hampshire and Dorsetshire.

I have seen a flock of over forty together.

I had seven nests on my premises here one summer; they go on breeding very late, and I have
found their nests with young birds half-fledged while summer-pruning apple trees in August.
They come into my garden close to the windows in May, after the ripening seeds of the myosotis
(forget-me-not) in the spring-bedding. I never remember seeing a goldfinch at Aldington, which
should show that the thistles were well under control, for the seed
is a great attraction.

One often hears the practice of allowing thistles to run to seed condemned as criminal, for
everybody knows that each thistle-down, carried by the wind, contains a seed, and that the attachment
of a light structure of plumes is one of Nature's methods of ensuring
dissemination.

But, in Worcestershire, it is always asserted that thistle seed will not germinate-- I am referring
to Cnicus arvensis-- and it is said that a prize of£ 50 offered for a seedling thistle remains unclaimed
to this day. I failed, myself, in trying to obtain young plants from seeds sown in a flower-pot,
and I have never seen a seedling in all the thousands of miles I must have walked over young cornfields
when my men were hoeing. I have heard an interesting story about rooks which were causing a farmer much damage
in a field newly sown with peas. He erected a small shelter of hurdles, from which to shoot them, and
for a time the shelter was sufficient to scare them, until they got used to it; but, when he entered
it with his gun, they would not come near.

Thinking to deceive their sentinel, watching from a tree, he took a companion to the shelter,
who remained for a time and then left, but still no rooks came near.

The farmer then took two companions, and presently sent them both away. The arithmetic was
too much for the rooks, and the scheme succeeded. He concluded that
their powers of enumeration were limited to counting "two," and that
"three" was beyond them.

Nightingales are scarce in the Forest; they do not like the solitude of the great woods, apparently
preferring to inhabit roadsides and places where people and traffic are constantly passing. They are
specially abundant at the foot of the Cotswolds, and it is a treat to cycle steadily along the road
between Broadway and Weston Subedge on a summer evening, where you no sooner lose the liquid
notes of one, than you enter the territory of another, so continuous is the song for miles together.
In severe winters wood-pigeons did much damage at Aldington to young clover a few inches high; they
roosted in "the island" adjoining my garden. When they first descended they alighted in the wide-spreading
branches of the leafless black poplars, where they could see all round, and reconnoitre the position;
then, if all was quiet, in about ten minutes they took to the shelter of the fir trees for the night
with much fluttering and beating of wings against the thick branches. They devour the acorns
in the Forest very greedily in the autumn, and I have seen one with
crop so full that on my approach it could only with difficulty fly
away to a short distance.

I found it near a small pond where, apparently, it had been drinking, and the acorns had expanded
to an inconvenient extent. The golden-crested wren was a common bird here before the severe
winter of 1916-1917, but it has since become comparatively rare; it is the smallest of British
birds, and could often be seen in the hedges exploring every twig and crevice for insects, and
it was a great pleasure to watch the nimble movements of such a sweet little fairy. Its first
cousin, the fire-crest, which is almost its exact counterpart, except for the flame-coloured crest,
is much rarer; and I only remember seeing one specimen, to which
with great circumspection I managed to approach quite closely, in
the wood near my house.

One morning, at Aldington, the gardener came in to say there was a hawk in the greenhouse near
the rickyard; we found a pane of glass broken, where it had unintentionally
entered in pursuit of a sparrow; the hawk was uninjured, and flew
away quite unconcernedly on the opening of the door.

Another hawk, here in Burley, was found dead near my drawing-room bow-window. It had dashed itself
against a pane of thick plate-glass while in pursuit of a starling,
I think; seeing the light through the bow, it had not recognized
the glass, and must have collided with it in the act of swooping.

I have several times seen hawks descend like a flash from a tree, and select an unlucky starling
from a flock; one blow on the head settled the victim before I could reach
the spot, but sometimes the hawk had to leave its prize behind it. I
was watching a number of young chicks feeding outside the coops containing
the mother hens, when there suddenly arose a great disturbance, and
a hawk, which had pounced upon a chick, was seen flying away with
it in its talons.

Its flight was impeded by the weight of the chicken, and we gave chase
shouting. Flying very low it carried its prey to the further side of
the meadow, but, seeing that it could not get quickly through the
trees there, it dropped the chicken and escaped; we picked up the
poor frightened infant, which was not injured, and restored it to
a perturbed but joyful mother. The little Winifred, whom
we left making merry over the Erin simplicity of Biddy and Patrick, had grown to be a young
miss of seventeen. Those black eyes of hers, which had attracted the gaze of the tall western
youths for the last time, had in no way lost their brilliancy. Mischief still sat triumphant
therein, and not a day passed but some poor uninitiated was brought to test the merits of that
gift. Miss Winnie looked upon this removal to more enlightened regions, as a change altogether
for the best; for how could such as she, at that age which never comes but once in a lifetime,
be content to feed on air, a la prairie. She had tired of looking at the same half-dozen raw-boned
gallants, and had come to the grand final decision, that her charms should not be wasted thus;
and now that she was surrounded by those urbane solicitors, which do mingle with those of more
enlargement of brain in fashionable life, they, in turn, began to fear lest those charms might
not prove for such as them.

"Mother," asked Winnie, a few days before the arrival of the Sea-flower, "who is this friend
whom you have invited to visit us?--that is, I mean to ask, what is she like? I have often
heard you speak of your early friend, Mrs. Grosvenor, but you have never seen her daughter,
and who knows but she may be,--well, I wont say; but you know Nantucket is but an isolated,
out-of-the-way place, where fishermen live, and the society in which she has moved, will probably
unfit her for enjoying ours. But she will be with us in a day or two, so we shall have to make
the best of it."

"It is many years since I have seen Mrs. Grosvenor; we met when we were both young married
ladies, at the house of a friend of mine, in New York, where she was visiting, and I formed
an attachment for her then, which has never abated. We have kept ourselves informed of each
other's welfare from time to time, and thinking that the daughter might possess the same amiable
disposition as her mother, I thought that her presence in our family might be pleasant to us
all, besides gaining for her, under your teachers of music and the languages, a finished education.
As for society in Nantucket, I have never learned of what grade it is; but judging from the
appearance of the only person I have ever met from there, I do not consider them far behind
the age."

"Well, I hope I shall like her, I am sure; she has a sweet name,--Natalie; perhaps we shall
like her, after all. But Nantucket brought to my mind such visions of unrefined oil, that I
really began to tremble, lest we might come in closer contact therewith than would be at all
agreeable"

"Mrs. Santon received the Sea-flower with a mother's tenderness, but being weary with her journey,
Natalie retired early, to dream of those far, low murmurings of the deep, which she had so
missed, in lulling her to rest."

"I am so disappointed in her, mother! she is such a gentle, delicate creature! I know I shall
love her! And such spiritual eyes! Did you notice when you asked about her mother, what a sweet
expression she wore?"

"She is a beautiful creature, and if I mistake not, she has a heart to match; but she does
not resemble her mother at all, in features; I think Captain Grosvenor must have been a fine-looking
man;" and Mrs. Santon wore a complacent look, as she thought of the favorable effect which
their guest might have upon the mind of her daughter; for owing to frequent ill-health, Mrs.
Santon had not been able to be with her child as much as she would have desired, and she feared
lest those early traits in her character of impatience, and a proneness to censure others,
might grow upon her, under the influence of her father, who was blind to her every fault"

"Ah, ha, miss puss," said Mr. Santon, who had received a most favorable impression of the Sea-flower,
"you will have to look out for that fairy-like creature, or even your bewitching charms will
be cast in the shade!" and as he spoke he proudly surveyed his idolized daughter, who was indeed
to be classed among the first in the brunette style of beauty.

"Oh, never fear for me, father," replied Winnie, taking a satisfied survey of her full-length
figure, reflected in a pier-glass; "if Boston forgets Winnie Santon's black eyes, she will
be perfectly resigned in gazing into the soul-speaking orbs, which shall usurp her power."

Other days than those which had been spent in sweet seclusion on Nantucket's peaceful shores,
now dawned upon the Sea-flower. Although not a day passed in which she did not sigh for one
dear familiar tone from those she loved so well, for her mother's fond embrace, and the free,
glad laugh of brother Harry, yet she was happy, excelling in those pursuits which seemed to
recognize her touch; and her soft voice, as it were of Italian origin, grew to be "the sunshine
of the house." As Biddy often declared, "it was a great saving of canary seed, to have Miss
Natalie about the house."

Time glided on apace with the Sea-flower, as each day brought some new task, calling into activity
some talent which had been lying in a dormant state, awaiting its time for expanding. Her teacher
of music, an Italian by birth, and of great fame in his profession, was in raptures with the
progress of his two pupils, and in the extraordinary talent displayed by the Sea-flower, was
he perfectly amazed; for not only was her voice of that soft, mellow style, peculiar to the
Italian people, but she performed those pieces which had but just been introduced to an American
ear, with all that impassioned tenderness peculiar to that nation.

"I believe you be one of my people!" exclaimed the Signor, after listening in breathless attention
to a new piece which he had brought for her; her echoing tones died away, and rose again with
gentler pathos, softly, and with sweeter tone, to fall again.

Unconsciously her eyes were fixed upon the Signor as he spoke, and her thoughts were carried
back, far away; she knew not whither they would take her, but rousing from her reverie, she
merely replied,--"I love the peculiar air of your nation, it presents such a striking contrast
to our cold, less pathetic style; but do not exclude what Winnie terms 'the productions of
the genii's more sensible moments' from my list of favorites, for, as there are hours which
are divided into sixty distinct parts, so there are divisions within the human heart, which
must live each upon its own native air."

"Natalie, darling, what were you talking with the Signor about? From the few words which I
caught, of the human heart, etc., I did not know but the presence of a third person might be
agreeably dispensed with;" and it was overtaxing the fringed lids of the mischievous Winnie's
eyes, in adding to their duties the office of sentinel.

"Ah, you rogue; have your critic's ears been listening to my feeble endeavors to repay the
Signor for his untiring labors?"

"One can hear your music without listening, for I was deep in thought of the time when I shall
come out from under the tyrannical power of instructors, and can do as I like; for my part,
I am tired to death of this continual,--'Miss Winifred, this piece must be executed with milder
intonations;' or, 'Miss Winifred, that chapter of Spanish must be told with greater fluency.'
I have come to dread the very name of Professor, and I never can look out of the window but
I see some pale-faced gentleman of the profession approaching, with his badge under his arm;
but those edifying ideas all vanished at the first strain of your 'Casta Diva.' If I could
produce such an effect, what would I not give;" and the beauty drew her arm around the Sea-flower,
and spoke in a lower tone.

"Natalie, you know I shall come out on my eighteenth birthday, and that will be in a very short
time; then I can do as I like; but how can I let all of these charming performances of the
celebrated Madam Forresti, whose name is in every mouth, pass without hearing her? I must say,
I was completely nonplussed, when young Montague asked me, this morning, what I thought of
her! and when I told him I had not heard her as yet, he was perfectly astonished, and said
I must hear her this very night!"

"But you did not accept of his invitation, Winnie?"

"How could I resist such a temptation? I have been longing to hear Madam Forresti, and with
Mr. Montague for an escort, I do not see the least impropriety in attending. I need not trouble
mother about it, for she is so nervous to-day she will not leave her room; and I do not think
she can object to my going."

"Oh, Winnie! how could you do so? I know your mother would not wish you to appear in public
with Mr. Montague! Not but that he may be worthy of attention, but he is the same as a stranger
to us, for your father has known him but a little while, and I noticed that your mother appeared
uneasy when he called last, for he has made us frequent visits, on so short an acquaintance."

"You do not surely suppose that my father would introduce any one into his family, who is not
a fit associate for his daughter?" retorted Winnie, her face flushing with excitement.

"No, I do not think so; but you would not go without consulting your mother's wishes?"

"And why not? Mother will never be the wiser for it, and I cannot see that she can reasonably
object; besides, am I always to be a child? I must some time or other act for myself."

"Dear Winnie, do not talk so! You have one of the best of mothers, and she will not deprive
you of any pleasure, unless it is for your own good. But do not be displeased with me for speaking
my thoughts, for I love you as a sister, and cannot bear to have you do anything that would
not be right."

Winnie was about to give way to those passions which an indulged child invariably possesses,
and being naturally of a very sensitive nature, she could not sit easy under those opinions
from others, which were in opposition to her own views, and trembling with rage, she turned
to the Sea-flower,--but the fire of her eye was subdued, her tongue did not give utterance
to the bitter, cruel words, which would have sounded so strangely upon an ear that had never
known such tones! she gave one look at the gentle, submissive face of the Sea-flower, and burst
into tears. Such tears, from the high-spirited Winnie Santon, was a strange sight. Her proud,
rebellious spirit had for once been conquered, and what was not such a lesson worth?

"O, Natalie!" she exclaimed, "how I wish I could be like you! I was just upon the point of
saying what I know I should have repented! I am so glad you have come to be with us!"

Nothing more was said about going to hear Madame Forresti, but when evening came, Winnie, after
leaving a message with Biddy for Mr. Montague, that she must be excused, sought her mother's
room, where she found Sea-flower, who was reading to the invalid, and the rich tones of her
voice conveyed far more happiness to her heart, than would have been hers, had she listened
to the far-famed songstress, with a conscience speaking of undutifulness. Natalie was reading
from the "Christian's Hope," and as she read, ever and anon cast her eye toward Winnie, who
appeared unusually thoughtful. The nervous state, however, of Mrs. Santon would admit of but
little excitement, and as Natalie closed her book, and rose to bid her good-night, she observed
that she looked unusually happy, and taking her dear children by the hand, she thanked them
tenderly for their devoted attention to her, and drawing close to Winnie she whispered in her
ear,--"It is such a comfort to me, dear, that you prefer your mother's sick room to more attractive
society!" Had she known of the struggle which had been going on in her daughter's heart, through
the influence of the gentle one whom she looked upon as a well-loved child, her eye could hardly
have been brighter than it was, as her child pressed a kiss upon her forehead, and said, "I
shall always love best to be with you mother."

That night Winnie retired with a determination to strive to overcome her sinful ways, and as
she heard the voice of the Sea-flower at her evening devotions, (their rooms adjoining,) she
spoke aloud, "I will try to be more like her." With this resolve, she fell asleep; but as the
rising sun peeped in at her window, there were to be found no traces of her evening resolutions!
If any thing, mischief looked out upon the new day with renewed earnestness, and Winnie Santon
was the same gay, reckless creature as ever.

"Ah, ha, miss puss, so your bow is new strung again, is it?" said Mr. Santon to his daughter,
as the door closed upon one of the mustached upper ten, who frequently found their way to the
elegant mansion of Mr. Santon.

"'New strung' with an old string, father; if these exquisites are foolish enough to burn their
fingers a second time, they must suffer the consequences."

Mr. Santon laughed, and merely said,--"Oh, you cruel beauty!" returning to his paper again;
but, seated in the bay-window was one, who could not thus lightly look upon the conduct of
the coquettish Winnie, for it was evident she was a sad coquette. Often had Natalie observed
her, as she received each admirer with the same bewitching smile, impressing him with the belief
that he of all others was the favored one, and he would depart, to return again as early as
the rules of propriety would admit, considering the fair one was not yet out.

"Natalie," asked Winnie, as she seated herself at her embroidery, "why did you not deign to
give Mr. Redfield one of your winning smiles? You are so reserved, and take so little notice
of the gentlemen, that I shall begin to think your charms are doomed to fade beneath the convent
veil."

"I was not aware that I did not receive Mr. Redfield with cordiality."

"Yes, but the absence of that fascinating air, which you know would bring the most unyielding
to your feet, is what I am lamenting. Had Mr. Redfield been my only admirer, I should have
been jealous of the glances which he cast at you; but I don't know as there would be any occasion
for that, for you, whose heart is made for love, seem to be in no danger at present of losing it."

"I certainly respect the gentlemen who visit us, but as for having a preference for one more
than another, I have not; and, Winnie dear, just ask yourself if you ever give one thought
to any one of those who deceive themselves by thinking that they, of all others, are preeminent
in your regards."

"I must acknowledge that I do not give them a thought, after the door once closes upon them;
poor, deluded creatures!"

"But do you think it right to deceive them thus?"

"Natie, darling, if you were not the most romantic creature that ever was, I should call you
Miss Matter-of-fact! But really, I don't know as there is anything very criminal in helping
such people to open their eyes; they find out, sooner or later, that I am of the opinion,--there
are as good fish in the sea as ever was caught."

The Sea-flower said no more, for she feared her words might be worse than useless; but such
are never idle words, and though Winnie appeared to give them little heed, yet many times afterward,
in the midst of her gaiety, did she remember the Sea-flower's question,--"is it right to deceive
thus?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Eighteen years old to-day! Mother, just eighteen to-day!" shouted Winnie, as she came into
the breakfast room, her cheeks vieing with the red of the rose; "how happy I am!" and casting
a look of contempt at the hot rolls and coffee, as if such things were hereafter to be classed
among the necessities of the past, she went bounding away to find her father. Opening the door
of the boudoir, she paused; arranged upon the table were her birthday gifts, and Mr. Santon
had spared no pains to make the collection as rare as possible. In the centre of the table
was a set of diamonds for the hair, and as Winnie clasped them about her dark tresses, she
laughed outright, exclaiming,--"They are so handsome! papa, I cannot wait for night to come!
But what is this?" she asked, drawing from a case a string of pearls, and holding them up to
the light. In the centre of the collection was one curiously wrought pearl, so formed as to
represent a star, and the sparkling of several diamonds from within, produced a very brilliant
effect. Examining it closely, she discovered the initials, "N. G.," wrought upon the setting."

"It is for you, Natalie!" she exclaimed to the Sea-flower, who stood enjoying Winnie's delight.
"I thank you, father, for remembering dear Natalie."

"Is it for me?" asked Natalie, hesitating to receive the gift.

"Yes, take it," said Mr. Santon, putting the treasure into her hand; "keep it as a memento
of our high esteem for you; and," added he, "I, for one, shall petition, after you have finished
your studies, to have you remain with us another season, that we may then have more of your
society."

Natalie expressed her sincere thanks, but the mention of remaining another season brought to
her remembrance her mother's last letter, which spoke of her return, and how delighted they
would all be to have her in their little home once more.

The long wished-for time, when Winnie should appear in public, as the accomplished Miss Santon,
at length arrived. Several hundred cards had been issued for the occasion, and to Winnie's
delight but few regrets had been received; "for," said she, "what is the use of doing things
by the halves?" Mrs. Santon's health had for the last few days been much improved; so much
so, that Winnie had gained from her the promise to fill her station for a part of the evening.
The brilliant lights already streamed from every window in the mansion, and the finishing touch,
(if such a thing can be said of a lady's toilet,) had been made by Winnie's attendant, much
to the satisfaction of all concerned; for although the beauty was willing to submit to all
the tortures of hair-dressing, etc., etc., yet before she was quite converted into a "Parisian
belle," she positively declared she would suffer none of those officials to come into her presence
again for a month. Surveying herself with an air which would have done credit to a queen, she
proceeded to the Sea-flower's apartments, thinking to banter her a little in her endeavors
to make perfection perfect; but instead of finding her still in dishabille, she had long ago
dismissed her attendant, and was quietly engaged in reading her bible, before she engaged in
those scenes of gaiety which had less attractions for her.

"Why, you charming creature!" exclaimed Winnie, "I can't help comparing you to a fairy, preparing
for a camp-meeting!" and her wild laugh was heard reechoing from hall to hall, Natalie smiling
at her ludicrous comparison.

"Why do you look at me with such a bewildered gaze, Winnie? Is my simple dress not to your
fastidious taste?"

"You could not have found anything more becoming, Natie dear; you will eclipse us all!" and
Winnie, taking both her hands in hers, gazed into her face as if spell-bound.

"I have seen some beautiful picture, somewhere," she exclaimed, "which is like you! but where,
I cannot tell; and yet, when I look at you, the association is so fresh in my mind! Yes, you
will be our evening star."

"Venus is morning star now," said Natalie, glancing at the brilliant dress of Winnie; "yet
for all that, she will favor us with her presence this evening."

As the two descended to the boudoir, they were met by Mr. Santon, who, shutting his eyes, exclaimed,--"Bless
me! I have looked upon the glorious morning, in the beauty of its freshness, and the gentle
evening, so pure, but to see them approaching, hand in hand, is too much for any 'live man!'"

Escorting the fair ones to Mrs. Santon's side, he proudly gazed upon their dazzling beauty,--beauty
in its perfection sitting upon each countenance, and yet, such a contrast! Winnie was arrayed
in a rich attire of delicate blue, her boddice wrought about with silver threads, representing
the light of the crescent moon, her skirt interwoven with numerous lesser lights, as it were,
stars of various magnitudes, producing a splendid effect in the flood of gas-light; and the
set of diamonds bound about her dark tresses, which fell in rich profusion about her finely
arched neck, setting off her dark complexion, her cheeks roseate with health, to great advantage;
and as she moved among her guests; her tall, slender form, so full of dignity, she was the
"observed of all observers." Her winning smile, so dangerous to those gallants in attendance
who had never realized the true sense of coquetry, was unusually fascinating, and every one
who had been honored by Miss Winnie's notice, pronounced her decidedly the belle of the season;
but as they turned to the gentle creature at her side, their thoughts gradually assumed a different
cast,--unconsciously the mind wandered to other scenes than are usually of a fashionable evening
entertainment. It were absurd to call her a "belle," for the word seemed void of expression.

The Sea-flower wore a simple dress of white blonde, with no other ornament than the band of
pearls, which had been the gift of her well-loved friends. The little star, which was formed
by the glittering of the diamonds through the delicately-wrought pearl, which being the centre
of the collection was worn upon her forehead, sparkling like tiny drops of dew; and as she
glided with unstudied grace among those who sought to know more of her, she gained the name
of "the gentle star."

It was yet early in the evening. Sauntering along one of the principal streets were two young
men, engaged in conversation. We will listen awhile, for we may be interested.

"Do you go to Santon's to-night, Delwood?" asked the younger of the two, who was far less prepossessing
in appearance than his companion.

"Umph,--yes," replied the other, in a more reserved tone. "Do you make one of the number?"

"You don't know Dick Montague if you think he would miss of such an occasion. Wit and beauty
do not hold forth every night. Old Santon has but one daughter, you know."

Mr. Delwood made no reply to these coarse remarks, for nothing could have been in greater contrast,
than the refined, gentlemanly nature of Mr. Delwood, to that of young Montague, whom we recognize
as the same gentleman (if such young men who wear two faces, putting aside the decorum of intelligent
society, for the rude jests and unrefined manners of other associates, can be called gentlemen,)
who had attracted Mrs. Santon's notice by his frequent visits to her daughter. Before proceeding
farther, we will give our patient reader a little insight to the history of these two personages,
whom we consider of sufficient note in our simple narrative, for inducing us to tear ourselves
away, for a little while, from the attractions at Santon Mansion.

Clarence Delwood belonged to one of the most aristocratic families in Boston. He was an only
son, upon whom had been bestowed all of those advantages which are to be derived from a princely
fortune. At the early age of twenty-two he had graduated at one of the first institutions in
Paris, where he had been placed by his haughty, overbearing father, who looked upon things
American as low and vulgar. The son had not inherited that proud, unyielding spirit of his
father, yet he was like him, inasmuch as he possessed the same dignified, reserved manner,
the which, having called forth the startling declaration from manoeuvering mothers, and languishing
daughters, that "Mr. Clarence Delwood would look farther than Boston for a bride." So they
had folded their gossamer wings with resignation, receiving his polite attentions with pleasure,
yet never being able to penetrate the reserve which hung around him. To say that our hero was
handsome, would be saying but little, for one often meets with such; but with the almost feminine
pensiveness which characterized his manly features, we meet seldom. Tall and commanding in
his appearance, his dark, glossy hair, and finely curved mustache, gave a fine effect to his
noble countenance, the peculiar light of his eye speaking volumes.

Such was the character of our friend Delwood, whom we shall shortly usher into the presence
of Miss Winnie Santon, that we may find what success those penetrating eyes, which grew big
with mischief even in a prairie home, shall have in lifting the veil which concealed in a measure
the true sentiments of a noble heart from the world at large.

We give our readers an insight to the character of Richard Montague at once, when we say that
he was what is commonly termed "a young man about town." By some means, a mystery, even to
himself, he had gained a foothold among the upper classes of society, and by dint of strict
observance of the manners of others, he had been thus far enabled to retain his position. What
his prospects in regard to pecuniary affairs were, no one was able to say; suffice it, that
there had been rumors of an old bachelor uncle, who was much increased in this world's goods,
whose trembling hand held the desired treasure over the young man's head; and as this report
had not been corrected by Montague, he not being over-burdened with many scruples of conscience,
it is not surprising that there should have been those, who looked upon him as a desirable
match for their dowerless daughters; but he, having realized the desolation which empty pockets
can produce, was now living upon the hope that he might build upon his fortune, which never
had foundation, by introducing himself among the fair ones of uppertendom, as a candidate for
matrimony. For some time he had had an eye to the well-filled purse of Winnie Santon, and he
had looked forward to this night, when she should make her debut, with as great interest as
had Winnie herself. Could he once get initiated into her good graces, he had no fears for the
rest; and he had already visions of what he was pleased to term, "Old Santon's chest of gold."
The attentions with which Winnie had received him, on former occasions, had served in no way
to lessen his confidence as to his success, and with this end in view, his steps were bent
towards the scene of gaiety. Reasons best known to himself, forbidding him to pass Mr. Delwood,
whom he overtook on the way.

"Quite an affair to-night! I'm thinking," remarked Montague, as he observed Delwood's cool
indifference, and endeavoring to draw him into conversation, he added, "there's a young protégé
of Santon's, staying with his daughter, who, I hear, hails from down east. Nantucket, I believe,
perhaps we may get a little information on harpooning!"

"Ah?" said Delwood, mechanically.

"Yes, the boys will have some sport I'm thinking; perhaps some of them may be induced to ship
as mate, for a down east voyage! I remember of sailing by Nantucket many years ago, on my return
from Liverpool, (he did not add that he had worked his passage) and though some twenty miles
distant, we fancied that we got a whiff of the hump-backs. Our captain was a jolly sort of
fellow, and would have us land-lubbers believe that his experienced eye could see half across
the ocean, but he found we were too smart for him, when he told us he could see a church-steeple
looming up on the island, for of course we knew that such things were not raised there."

Much to Mr. Delwood's relief, they had now arrived at Mr. Santon's residence. As the name of
Delwood was announced, all eyes were turned toward him, for his presence was considered a great
acquisition to any circle, and many a fair one envied Winnie Santon, as he claimed her hand
for the first dance. The Sea-flower stood by Mrs. Santon's side, that she might attend to her
least wish, when young Montague, disappointed that he had not been the first to secure the
hand of Winnie, in an obsequious manner, solicited the pleasure of Miss Grosvenor's company,
to complete the set, but she politely declining the honor, the young man, by the aid of the
brass which constituted no small portion of his composition, begged leave to remain by her
side, that he might make some few inquiries in regard to her enchanting home, which place he
always had a great desire to visit.

"The islanders I suppose are mostly fishermen, yet," added he, glancing rudely into her face,
"there are some persons of intelligence among them, are there not?"

Natalie looked at him for a moment, as if in doubt whether ignorance or some meaner motive
had prompted the question, when she remarked, "you evidently have never learned of the great
dangers attendant upon a stranger's visit to Nantucket."

"Ah, indeed, I shall be under great obligations for the information," said he, his eyes wide
open with curiosity! "pray, what are those dangers?"

"The islanders, as you have imagined, being so unlike the inhabitants of civilized lands, have
such a natural propensity for wielding the harpoon, that should a person differing from their
kind appear amongst them, they might be liable to capture him, mistaking the object for a new
species of land-shark!"

At this piece of information, delivered in such a calm, pleasant manner, the smiles which had
been visible on the faces of those who listened, grew into a hearty laugh, in which the chagrined
Montague joined, as being the safest way of retreat, and although piqued by the ludicrous position
in which he had been placed, he could not but look with admiration upon the gentle creature,
whose pleasant repartee had been in self-defence.

Natalie followed with her eye the graceful form of Winnie, as she threaded her way through
the dance, occasionally interchanging a witty remark with her handsome partner, and as he lead
her to a seat, Natalie observed to Mrs. Santon, "how beautiful dear Winnie is to-night! I do
not know who can help loving her!" So enthusiastic was she in her praises, that she had not
observed the two contemplating her, and ere she was aware of their approach, the bewitching
Winnie had taken her hand, and presenting Mr. Delwood, she mischievously remarked, "Now, Miss
critic, it is for you to perform a la perfectione, and depend upon it, you shall be dealt with
according to your own measure! for you have not once taken those eyes off from me through the
whole course!"

Before Natalie could say a word in her defence, the music had commenced, and ere she had hardly
realized it she had taken Winnie's place by the side of Mr. Delwood. Other eyes than Natalie's
had looked upon Winnie with admiration, as she had leaned upon the arm of Delwood, but now,
as he led forth "the gentle star," the suppressed murmur of applause must have been apparent
to the fair one herself had she not been engaged with other thoughts. For several successive
figures it so happened that Natalie was the partner of the reserved Mr. Delwood, who never
was known to appear a second time upon the floor, and it also happened, how, or at what moment
was a mystery, that the two had sought to dispel fatigue, by the conservatory's soothing influences,
whither the eye of Winnie wandered ever and anon, as with Mr. Montague she vied with her competitors
in the giddy waltz. Miss Winnie's brain was capable of containing two thoughts at the same
time, and no one would have suspected, absorbed as she appeared to be with the attentions of
Montague, who was playing the agreeable to the best of his knowledge, that her curiosity was
at work, wondering what the subject of the truants, tête-à-tête might be. "They are discussing
the rare exotics, sent to us from the South," she thought within herself, and indeed, what
other could interest the cold-hearted Delwood? who, it was thought had never dreamed of love
this side of the Atlantic; and as for Natalie, many a private lecture had she received from
Winnie, in regard to her indifference toward the gentleman! though those discourses had been
invariably of the same termination, "for all that, Natalie, your heart is made for love."

From the first moment that Clarence Delwood had set his eye upon the Sea-flower, an interest
which he had never known before had been awakened within him. It may be said that it was a
weakness, that he had always looked upon women as mere butterflies, but owing to early circumstances,
he having been bereft of his mother in infancy, never having known the blessings of a sister's
society, he was not to be condemned for the impressions which a gaudily attired attendant had
left upon his mind as he grew up into boyhood. But as he listened to the Sea-flower, as she
told him of her home in the sea, of the music of the glorious billows, companions of her childhood,
filling the very soul with nature's beauty and sublimity, he looked upon her, as if fearful
she might prove an "Undine," and he would not have been taken by surprise had her spiritual
face faded calmly from beneath his gaze, to join her sister nymphs of ocean.

"And you will soon return to your island home?" he asked, as a thought of the warmth with which
she had expressed herself to a stranger, bade her pause in her enthusiasm with downcast eye.

"Yes, I shall soon return," she answered joyously, "and yet I shall remember Boston with feelings
of pleasure, for I have spent happy hours here."

As she said this, their eyes involuntarily met; a silent spectator would have noted the contrast
of the moistened blue, to the deep black of sterner make, but as it was, that contrast was
not discovered, each felt that the other was reading the thought, which had but then sprung
up within the soul. Natalie withdrew her gaze, while Delwood, stooping to pluck a moss rose-bud
from an urn at her feet, placed it within his diamond fastener, and the two retraced their
steps to join their friends again. Montague was still at Winnie's side, and though the unusual
flush upon Natalie's cheek was a sad tell-tale of the state of affairs, yet she observed Winnie
as she listened with a ready ear to Montague's remarks, and an unpleasant feeling rose in her
heart; she could not bear to have her dear friend on such intimate terms with him, whom, as
by a natural instinct she shunned.

All things must have an end; and the cheerful lights, which houseless ones had watched as the
bright beams fell across the pave, one by one had faded. Formal adieus had been said, kind
wishes interchanged, and the last sound of rumbling wheels had died away. Excess of excitement
bade the blooming Winnie seek repose, and quiet reigned triumphant at Santon Mansion; yet there
was one who seemed to have forgotten that the morning follows so close upon the evening. The
Sea-flower had lingered among the last to say adieu, and now, in her own apartment, she had
sunk into a chair, the delicate pearls still encircling her sunny tresses, vieing in purity
with her fair complexion; her eyes were fixed on vacancy, and she was not aware that the morning
was peeping in upon her, till started from her reveries by her own gentle sighs.

And what spell is this that so usurps the calm, usually characteristic of her nature? We have
a vague suspicion as to what it may be, yet she is all innocent of the source from which these
new feelings have sprung; even the last low words of Delwood, which are still sounding in her
ear, do not lead her to mistrust, and we leave her, as the fringed eyelids at last droop in
repose, to take a peep at our hero, who is only distant a few squares from the gentle one,
who, he feels, as he sits by the gas-light, made pallid by the dawn of day, is all the world
to him.

If Delwood possessed the cold heart, of which the world gave him the credit, its fetters had
at last yielded to the genial sunshine. Sleep was most remote from him, and pacing his room
with a quick tread, he uttered, in a sarcastic tone--"Love! Clarence Delwood in love! Love
at first sight! I never would have credited it!" his voice softening, he added--"I feel confident
that she of all others, is the only one who could have wrought this change! No, I cannot look
upon this as weakness! I must see more of her; she is an angel of purity, too good for such
as I. Can she think favorably of me? and what will my father say, if he learns that his only
son will sue for favor in the eyes of--it may be a maiden of low birth! It matters not! Should
he disinherit me, I will seek her society! I must love her even though she look upon me coldly.
I will see her again this very day!" with these resolves he threw himself upon his couch, if
he might get a little rest, before he again went forth into the busy day, with feelings how
changed!

Natalie was awakened from her late slumbers, by a kiss from Winnie, whose merry voice made
the apartment ring. "So, ho! Miss Natalie," she exclaimed, "you have been holding late revels
with the water nymphs by moonlight! and now, when the stronger light of the sun bids us mortals
awake, you have made good your retreat, and are enjoying Morpheus's protecting care! but I
can guess from whence the smiles came, as you slept! never fear, darling, I'll tell nobody
of whom you dreamed!"

"Why, Winnie dear," exclaimed Natalie, endeavoring to free herself from the kisses which that
crazy little body was lavishing upon her, "have I slept so late? and what has turned your head
so early this morning? I do not know what will become of us all before the day is ended, if
you go on thus." Opening her eyes, she looked about her, endeavoring to collect her senses.
Her eye fell upon a bouquet, of the finest, most delicate flowers, in a vase, upon her toilet
table; it had evidently been placed there since she had retired, as she did not remember of
seeing it before. "You are very kind, Winnie, in being so thoughtful of me," she said, "but
where did you get those beautiful varieties? they are not from our conservatory."

"O, you innocent rogue! you think to make me believe you know nothing of them, do you? they
certainly came from some one who was thoughtful of your well-being! but come, make yourself
look as charming as possible, for there is a friend awaiting us in the drawing room, who it
is, I'll not say, for 'haste makes waste,' you know!"

Natalie blushed, for there came at once a rush of thoughts to her mind. She but then remembered
the pleasures of last evening. Winnie giving her a knowing look, left her to her own reflections.
Banishing all other thoughts from her mind, Natalie kneeled at her morning devotions, her low
voice went up in thanks for the many blessings which were hers, not forgetting to ask for greater
favors for her dear mother and brother, whom she expected so soon to meet, in two short weeks,
at the time which had been fixed, when she would return to her home.

A simple morning dress of pink delise, edged with white, set off her light figure to a charm;
her snowy collar fastened with a cross, and taking a lily of the valley from the mysterious
bouquet, she placed it in her hair, and half-hesitating, lest Winnie had been playing off one
of her mischievous tricks, she descended to the drawing-room. The most difficult man to deal with
is the over-confident "know-all"; he is always ready to oppose experience-- often dearly bought-- with
his superior knowledge, he can suggest a quicker or a cheaper way of doing everything, and
in his last place he "never saw" your system followed. He is the penny-wise and pound-foolish individual,
and his methods are "near enough." It has been said that at twenty a man knows everything,
at forty he is not quite so sure, and at sixty he is certain that he knows nothing at all;
but there are exceptions even to this rule, who continue all their lives thinking more and
more of their own opinions, and completely satisfied with their own
methods.

On the other hand, the master will always find, among the more experienced,
men from whom much is to be learnt; they are generally diffident and
not too ready to hazard an opinion, but when consulted they can give
very valuable help.

I willingly acknowledge my indebtedness to my old hands, their well-founded convictions that
were the fruit of long years of practical experience, and their readiness to impart them in times
of doubt and difficulty.

Just as bad-tempered grooms make nervous, bad-tempered horses; rough and noisy cattle-men, fidgety
cows; ill-trained dogs and savage shepherds, sheep wild and difficult to approach; so does
the bad-tempered, impatient, or slovenly master make men with the same bad qualities, when a
smile or a kind word will bring out all that is good in a man and produce the best results in
his work.

I began my farming with four dear old women, working on the land, when wanted for light jobs;
the youngest must have been fifty at least.

They received the time-honoured wage of tenpence a day, and worked, or talked, about eight hours.
They loved to work near the main road, discussing the natural history of the occupants of passing
carts or carriages. They knew something comic, tragic, or compromising about everybody, and expressed
themselves with epigrammatic force. A farmer occupant of a neighbouring farm in long-past days,
was a favourite subject of such recollections. After relating how "he were a random duke," and
recalling his habits, one old lady would conclude the recital with an account of his last days,
adding, as if everything was thereby finally condoned: "But there,'e
was just as nice a carpse as ever I see, and I was a'most minded to
put his paddle [thistle-spud] beside him in his coffin, for he was
always a-diggin'and a-delvin'about with it."

One member of this quartet, when ill, had a dish of minced mutton sent her in the hopes of tempting
her appetite. She eyed the gift with disfavour, and announced with
scorn that "she preferred to chew her meat herself!"

In
due course these old ladies retired from active service and younger women took their places; women
were especially necessary in the hop-yards for the important operation of tying the selected
bines to the poles with rushes and pulling out those which were superfluous.

It was difficult, at first, to accustom them to the fact that the hop always twines the way of the sun,
whilst the kidney bean takes the opposite course. And there was a problem which greatly exercised
their minds: How were they to reach the hops at the tops of the poles-- 14 feet from the ground--
when the time came? It did not occur to them that it was possible
to cut the bine and pull up the pole.

They soon became very quick and expert at the tying, and their well-worn wedding-rings, telling
of a busy life, would flash brightly in the sunshine as they tenderly coaxed the brittle bines round
the base of the poles, securing them with the rush tied in a special slip-knot, so that it easily
expanded as the bine enlarged. Women are splendid at all kinds of light farm work whenever deftness
and gentle touch are required, such as hop-tying and picking, or gathering small fruit like currants,
raspberries, and strawberries; but I do not consider them in the
least capable of taking the place of men in outdoor work which demands
muscular strength and endurance and the ability to withstand severe
heat or bitter cold or wet ground under foot, through all the varying
seasons.

Village
women have, too, their home duties to attend to, and it is most important that their men-folk
should be suitably fed and their houses kept clean and attractive. On the farm of my son-in-law, in Warwickshire,
I have seen something of the work of land girls, to the number of seventy or more, for whom he provided
a well-organized camp with a competent lady Captain; and I know how useful they proved in
the emergency caused by the War, but I still adhere to my former
conclusion as to the more strenuous forms of farm labour, without
in the least detracting from my admiration for the courage and patriotism
that brought them forward.

I know one woman, however, who quite successfully undertakes very strenuous garden work, including
digging, having been inured to it at a very early age.

If she could be spared from her own work to take the position of instructress for young girls determined
to make the land their chief employment, they would be saved a vast amount of unnecessary fatigue and labour
by learning the art of using spades, forks, hoes, and rakes in the way that experience teaches,
relying more upon the weight and designed capabilities of the tool to do the work than upon their
own untrained muscles.

We could always get a supply of excellent maids for house-work from among the village families; they
began very young, coming in for a few hours daily to help the regular staff, and, as these
left or got married, they were ready trained to take their places. These girls were quite free
from the self-importance of the present-day domestic, but I remember one nice village girl about
whom we inquired as a likely maid who, it then appeared, was engaged to marry a thriving small
tradesman. The girl's mother, being over-elated at her daughter's
apparently brilliant prospects of independence, rejected the proposal
with some hauteur, adding that her daughter "would soon be keeping
her own maid."

I fear, however, that she was disappointed, as the course of true love did not run smooth. We preferred
a married man as shepherd, because, when I had only a few cows, he combined his duties with
those of cowman; and, bringing in the milk and doing the churning, he was much about the back premises.
On one occasion, however, I engaged a young bachelor, partly because
he replied, with a knowing smile, to a question as to whether he
was married, that he dared say he could be if he liked-- which I
optimistically took to amount to an announcement of his engagement.

Time went on and he remained a single man, but it was observable
that he lingered on his milky way, and was more in evidence in the dairy
than his duties appeared to warrant. We concluded that he was attracted
by the cook.

One day my wife said to another maid: "I can't think why the shepherd
spends so much time in the house.

I suppose cook is the attraction?" The girl blushed, hesitated, and looked down, but finally courageously
murmured: "Please, mum, it's me, mum!" They were married in due course, and we lost an excellent
servant. Some of the village women and girls filled up spare moments with "gloving"; the large kid-glove
manufacturers in Worcester supplied the material, cut into shape, and a stand, with a kind of vice
divided into spaces the exact size of each stitch, which held the
work firmly while the stitching was done by hand; they grew very quick
at this work, and turned out the gloves with beautifully even stitches,
but I don't think they could earn much at it in a day, and it must
have been rather monotonous.

I was interested to read in Mr. Warde Fowler's Kingham Old and New an account of a peculiar ceremony--
called "Skimmington," by Mr. Hardy, in his Mayor of Casterbridge-- which took place in Kingham
village. I have known of two similar cases, one in Surrey and one at Aldington, under the name
of "rough music." The Kingham case was quite parallel with that at Aldington, being a demonstration
of popular disapproval of the conduct of a woman resident, in matters arising out of matrimonial
differences.

The outraged neighbours collect near the dwelling of the delinquent, having provided themselves
with old trays, pots and pans, and anything by means of which a horrible
din can be raised, and proceed to serenade the offender. To be the
subject of such a demonstration is regarded as a signal disgrace and
a most emphatic mark of popular odium. Mr. Warde Fowler tells me, on
the authority of a German book on marriage, etc., that "the same sort
of din is made at marriage in some parts of Europe to drive evil
spirits away from the newly married pair."

                  Possibly, therefore, the custom
  among our own villagers may have originated with
  the same idea, and they may formerly have taken the charitable view
that evil spirits were responsible for evil deeds, and that their
exorcism was a neighbourly duty.

        The holiday outings I gave my men were a quid pro quo for some hours of
overtime in the hay-making, and included a day's wages, all expenses,
and a supply of food.

  They generally went to a large town where an agricultural
   show was in progress, but I think the sea trips to Ilfracombe
   and Weston-super-Mare were the most popular, offering
   as they did much greater novelty.
   

        I have a vivid recollection of the preparation of the rations on the
previous night: a vast joint of beef nicely roasted and got cold before
operations commenced, my wife and daughter making the sandwiches, while
I cut up the beef in the kitchen, sometimes in my shirt-sleeves on
a hot summer night; mountains of loaves of bread, great slices of
cake, and pounds of cheese, completed the provisions.

The rations were wrapped in separate papers and placed in a hipbath, covered with a cloth, and
finally kept in a cool building, whence each man took his portion at early dawn. For the sea trips
the train took the party to Gloucester and Sharpness, where they embarked upon the steamer. Many and
thrilling were the tales I heard next day; the sea was fairly smooth until they reached the
Bristol Channel, but then, if they met a south-west wind, the vessel began to roll, and jovial
faces looked thoughtful. I must not dwell upon the delightful horrors of the voyage on such
occasions; they were accepted with good-humour and regarded as part
of the show, but it was curious that not one of the narrators himself
suffered the fate that he so graphically described as the portion
of the others.

Arrived at their destination, they inspected the town, watched the people on the piers and parades,
and the children playing on the sands. The latter created the greatest interest, busy with their
spades and buckets, or, as one man expressed it, "little jobs o'draining and summat!" At Christmas
the village children always came in small gangs to sing, or rather
chant, a peculiar and very ancient seasonable greeting: "I wish you
a merry Christmas and a happy New Year, A pocket full of money and
a cellar full of beer, A good fat pig to last you all the year.

May God bless all friends near! A merry, merry Christmas and a happy New Year." CHAPTER VII.
MACHINERY-- VILLAGE POLITICS-- ASPARAGUS. "Last week came one to the county town To preach
our poor little army down."-- Maud. Though machinery has lightened the labour of manual workers
to some extent, it entails much more trouble upon masters and foremen, for breakages are frequent
and always occur at the busiest time. What with mowers, reapers, thrashing machines, chaff-cutters,
root-pulpers, and grain-mills run by steam-power or in connection with horse-gears; hop-washers,
separators, and other delicately adjusted novelties, the master must of necessity be something
of a mechanic himself.

I doubt if machinery is really quite the advantage claimed by theorists and reconstructionists at
the present day. Even the thrashing machine, universally adopted, presents disadvantages in
comparison with the ancient flail, generally regarded as obsolete, though still to be found
in occasional use by the smallholder or allotment occupier. In former times the farmer reserved his
thrashing by hand, for the most part, for winter work during severe frost or wet weather, when nothing
could be done outside. The immense barns, which still exist, were filled almost to the roof
at harvest; thatching was not necessary, and every sheaf was absolutely safe from rain as soon
as it was under cover. Continuous winter work was provided for the men, and a daily supply of fresh
straw for chaff-cutting and bedding, besides fresh chaff and rowens
or cavings for stock throughout the winter.

With the thrashing machine in use for ricks, thatching is a necessity, and is often difficult to
arrange in the stress of harvest; the machine and engine demand a
day's work for two teams of horses to fetch them, and the cartage
and expense of much coal, now so dear.

On a small farm extra hands have to be engaged, the straw has to be stacked or carried to the
barns, and the same applies to the chaff and rowens. If the weather is damp, straw, chaff, and rowens
get stale, mouldy, and unpalatable to the stock, a heavy charge is
made for the hire of the machine and the machine men, and the latter
require food and drink or payment instead.

The machine breaks and bruises many grains of corn, which are thereby
damaged for seed or malting, whereas the less urgent flail leaves
them intact.

The sound of the thrashing machine gives an impression to outsiders
of brisk and remunerative work, but it is cheerful to the farmer only
when high prices are ruling.

Far otherwise was it for many years before the War, when corn-growers
heard only its moaning, despondent note, telling anything but a flattering
tale, only varied by an occasional angry growl, when irregular feeding
choked its satiated appetite.

From the aesthetic standpoint uncouth and noisy machines, such as mowers and reapers, cannot be compared
to a lusty team of men with scythes, in their white shirts, backed by
the flowering meadows; or a sunny field of busy harvesters facing
a golden wall of corn, and leaving behind them the fresh-shorn stubble
dotted with sheaves and nicely balanced shocks.

The rattle of the machines, too, is discordant and out of harmony with the peaceful countryside.
It is related of Ruskin that, hearing the insistent rattle of a mowing machine in a meadow adjoining
his home by the beautiful Coniston Water, and his sense of the fitting being outraged, he interviewed the
owner, and, by an offer to pay the trifling difference between machine and hand labour, induced
him to discontinue the annoyance. As to the relative cost of machine and
hand wheat-cutting, quite early in my farming I obtained the opinion
of a distinguished farmer, then well known on the Council of the Royal Agricultural
Society, Mr. Charles Randell, of Chadbury, near Evesham, on the subject:
"If you can get a good crop," he said, "cut, tied, and stocked by
hand at anything like 15s. an acre, don't use a machine.

If the corn is ripe it knocks out and wastes quite a bushel of wheat per acre" (worth at that time about
5s., now nearer 9s. or 10s.). "I always bring out my machines, and have them oiled and made ready,
but I don't want to use them." In a wet harvest the machine is unworkable on sticky clay soil,
and after a wet summer, when the corn is badly laid and twisted, it makes very poor work, cutting
off the ears and scattering them, and leaving a quantity of uncut
and untidy straw on the ground. In my own case my equanimity was never disturbed
by a reaping machine, with its unwieldy tossing arms, on my land,
for I had to find employment for my full staff of regular hands, specially
required for the much more important hop-picking a little later, and
it pleased me that they should get the extra pay for harvest work
as well.

The cream separator, I admit, is a wonderful invention, and its hum is not unmusical; it provides
fresh skim milk for the calves and pigs morning and night, which, as well as the cream, is thoroughly
cleansed in the process. The aeration of the skim milk leaves it a
most wholesome and nourishing article of diet for the villagers if
they could be made to understand its value, and that the removal of
the cream takes away only the fat (heating material), leaving the
bone and muscle making constituents in the milk.

I could never induce my village folk to accept this rudimentary proposition; they fancied that
all the goodness was gone with the cream, and though I offered the skim milk at the nominal price of
one halfpenny a quart, very few would send their children to fetch
it, though they mostly lived within a hundred yards of the dairy. The
hay or straw elevator is one of the greatest helps, saving much heavy
overhand labour in rick-building.

An old labourer, pointing to one, with great appreciation, on a farm I was visiting, said:
"That's a machine as will be always kept in the dry and took care
on."

He spoke from experience of the arduous work of unloading and the passing of heavy weights, sometimes
from the bed of the waggon to the summit of the rick; for, as my bailiff often said, "Nobody
knows so well where the shoe pinches as the man who has to wear it."
Steam has not done all that was expected of it as an agricultural
slave. The steam plough is not a success on heavy land where the ridges
are high and irregular in width, and even the steam cultivator has
to be used with caution lest the soil should be carried from the ridges
to the furrows, and the "squitch"

(couch) buried to a depth at which it is difficult to eradicate.
The great convenience of steam cultivation is that full advantage
can be taken of a short spell of hot, dry weather for fallowing operations,
and the soil is left so hollow that it soon bakes and kills the weeds.
I fully sympathize with Tennyson's, Northern Farmer, Old Style: "But
summon'ull come ater meä mayhap wi'' is kittle o'steäm Huzzin'an'maäzin'the
blessed feälds wi'the Devil's oän teäm"; for, except on a large farm
with immense fields, the ponderous and ungainly steam, tackle gives
one a sensation of intrusion.

Such a field can be found on a farm between Evesham and Alcester;
it contains 300 acres.

The
occupier, speaking of it, mentioned that it was all wheat that year except one corner. To a question
as to the size of the corner, it transpired that it was 50 acres, and
growing peas. For comparison there is a story of a Devonshire farmer
who said he had been very busy one winter making four fields into one.
"Then you've got a big field," said a friend.

"Yes," was the reply; "it's just four acres." When the farm labourer was
enfranchised in 1885 he became an important member of the electorate.
Candidates and canvassers alike had a much more strenuous time than ever
before, the former were constrained to hold meetings in every village,
and the latter were obliged to visit nearly every cottage. The late
Sir Richard Temple after a distinguished career in India, became
Conservative candidate for our division.

The doctrine of "three acres and a cow," in opposition to every tenet of rural economy, as well
as the division of the land among the labourers, were at the time paraded by theorists and paid
agitators, as bribes to purchase the votes of the new electors, and
as ensuring the salvation of the rural population, which was then
beginning to suffer from unemployment, resulting from the destruction
of corn-growing by foreign competition.

The more credulous of the labourers were excited and unsettled by the alluring prospect of independence
thus held out to them, and it was reported that some went so far as to survey the fields around
their villages and select the plots they proposed to cultivate, and
that others took baskets to the poll in which to bring home the all-powerful
magic of the mysterious vote!

Among the new voters in a neighbouring village, a man of very decided
views found it puzzling to decide by which candidate they were most nearly
represented, and, determined to make no mistake at the poll, he consulted
a fellow-labourer, inquiring: "Which way be the big uns a-going,
because I be agin they?"

The Squire of an adjoining parish met an old villager with whom he had always been on good terms;
after mutual greetings, the man sympathised: "I be sorry for you,
Squire." "Why?" was the rejoinder.

"Yes, I be regular sorry for you, Squire, that I be.." "What's the matter?" asked the Squire. "Ay!
about this here land;'tis to be divided amongst we working men." "Indeed," said the Squire; "but
look here, after a bit, some of you won't want to cultivate it any
longer, and some, with improvident habits, will sell their plots
to others, so that soon it will be all back again into the hands of
a few; what will you do then?"

The man looked puzzled, scratched his head, and cogitated deeply, until a simple solution presented
itself: "Then, Squire," said he, "we shall divide again!" Sir Richard
Temple was undoubtedly an able man, but he was a complete stranger
to the local conditions of the constituency. The villagers of Badsey especially,
as well as of other adjoining parishes, were just beginning to retrieve
their position, threatened by the collapse of corn-growing and consequent
unemployment, by the adoption of market-gardening and fruit-growing.

The land, run down and full of weeds and rubbish, had been cut up into allotments and offered
to them as tenants, their only choice lying between years of hard work in redeeming its condition or
emigration. Many young men chose the latter, and did well in the States of America; but where there was
a wife and young children that course was scarcely possible, and the man became an allotment
tenant. Passing one of these on a plot full of "squitch," which he was
laboriously breaking up with a fork to expose it in big clods to a
baking sun, I asked if he had taken it.

"Well," said he, "I don't know whether I've taken it or it's taken me!" These men, by unceasing
labour and self-denial, were just beginning to turn the corner; they had cleaned the land, ameliorated
its mechanical condition by application of soot and by deep digging with their beloved forks,
and, having discovered how wonderfully asparagus nourished on this deep, rich soil, had planted
large areas, as well as plum-trees and other market-garden crops,
and the well-merited return was coming in increasingly year by year. Sir Richard
Temple did not understand the difference between the small holder,
growing corn and ordinary crops in less favoured parts of the countrymen
the one hand, and market-gardeners in the Vale of Evesham, with its
early climate, splendid soil, and railway connection with huge artisan
populations, delivering the produce with punctuality and despatch,
on the other.

He considered that small holders could not make an economic success
where the farmers had failed, and had made his views well known in
the constituency, but he did not distinguish between the small holder
and the market-gardener.

The men of Badsey felt aggrieved, they knew better, and at a meeting he held in the village they gave
him a rather noisy hearing, with interruptions such as, "Keep off
them steel farks," "Mind them steel farks, Sir Richard," and so on.

Sir Richard came to ask for my support and assistance in our village, and, as I was not at home,
my wife entertained him in my absence, with tea and wedding-cake. She innocently asked if he had
come to canvass me; her straightforward query surprised him, but, after
a moment's hesitation, he replied cautiously: "Well, something of
that sort."

He was eventually returned, and the men of Badsey continued to flourish on asparagus-growing in spite
of his warnings; new houses sprang up in every direction, and available labour grew scarcer and
scarcer. I wonder that you have not been brought up to something
beside killing time!"

"Madam!" vociferated Winnie, her face crimsoned with the insult which she had received, but
she paused, though still trembling with rage, her eye had rested on a gentle form, standing
within the open door--it was the Sea-flower. With one finger upon her lip, her brow calm as
the new day, she gazed upon Winnie, till gaining her eye, unobserved by Mrs. Santon she glided
away. Instead of the rage Winnie would have poured forth, she merely said, "I will send you
the keys," and left the room. Despatching a servant with the keys, which she had intended to
have put into her hands at the earliest opportunity, thereby acknowledging her superior claim
at once, she sought Natalie, whom she found seated in the conservatory, enjoying the Indian
summer breeze, which stole softly in among the fragrant plants, which were the particular objects
of her care. Each knew what was uppermost in the other's mind, but Winnie's heart was too full
to speak.

"I have been thinking, Winnie," said the Sea-flower, "how thankful we should be, that we have
so many friends to love us. I think I have never realized it until now, and," she spoke in
a lower tone, "dear Winnie, should you ever receive other than the kindly treatment to which
you have always been accustomed, let it serve to increase your gratitude that you have so many
with whom you can trust your affections."

"Yes, Natalie, I will strive to do aright. I will try to do as I think you would have done,
but I fear I shall not have your strength. O, it is so hard! if I only had a mother to love
me, I could endure anything else!" and her excitable nature getting the better of her, she
burst into tears. Natalie threw her arm about her neck, and, her own voice tremulous with the
pity which she felt for her, she tried to soothe her spirits; "you shall have a mother! My
mother shall be your mother! for are you not to be my sister? and she will love you as did
your own gentle mother! but Mrs. Santon will yet become reconciled to you, for when she finds
what a good heart you have, she cannot but treat you with kindness."

At this juncture the door opened, and Mrs. Santon brushed rudely in; "welladay! is this your
usual morning's occupation? Miss Grosvenor, I think you should have more wisdom than to be
petting a spoiled child! I imagine that I shall have as much as I shall care to undertake,
to undo the mischief which is already too apparent. It has been as much as I could do for the
last two hours, to get things a little in order; but I suppose I need not look for assistance
here," she scornfully said, and turned to leave the room. Winnie had it upon her tongue's end
to reply, "My father employs his servants to keep his house in order, and they have never failed
to give satisfaction," but biting her lip, the thought died away. Natalie arrested Mrs. Santon's
steps, saying, "Winnie and myself will consider it a pleasure to assist you, and whatever we
can do at any time for your enjoyment, we shall be most happy to do it." The hard-hearted woman
quailed a little, at the Sea-flower's proffered assistance, and Natalie accompanied her to
the upper drawing-room, wondering much what could have given offence to her ideas of a well-regulated
house; for under the housekeeper's scrupulous care, everything was kept in the nicest order.
Desiring Natalie to assist her in the disposal of some articles, she directed Winnie to find
some out-of-the-way place, and to stow away the rubbish which she would find in the next apartment,
pointing to the room which had been her mother's, and which Winnie had not permitted any one
to disturb, since her death. Everything had been left just as she had left it, even some withered
flowers had not been removed, and the book from which she had read, had been left opened at
the place her eye had last looked upon. This room had been kept as a place sacred to Winnie's
heart, and indeed the very servants passed it by with a blessing on their departed mistress;
and it was now with trembling steps that Winnie, hardly realizing what had been said to her,
followed in the direction which the cruel woman had pointed. She opened the door, and sank
fainting into a chair! In the middle of the floor were the very clothes which her mother had
worn, with other articles thrown together in a pile! her mother's portrait had been removed,
and the room was otherwise in disorder. Natalie ran to Winnie's assistance, bathing her temples,
and smoothing back her long tresses with tenderness. Just at that moment Mr. Santon entered
the room; he looked at his daughter! at the disordered apartment of his buried wife, which
he had never held more sacred, and he looked at Mrs. Santon! Without speaking a word he left
the room. Poor Winnie! this is indeed life's lesson! but thou art learning to "suffer and be
strong."

Had the character of the mother-in-law been in accordance with her exterior, Santon Mansion
might still have resounded with joy, for hers was a face by no means forbidding. On the contrary,
a stranger would have pronounced her to be decidedly good-looking, considering that she was
a woman of nearly fifty years, and those good looks were the secret of Mr. Santon's unfortunate
connection with her. From the first, the woman had taken a dislike to Natalie; it seemed as
if she was determined to spite her in every way possible. Why she should have felt thus toward
her, was certainly unaccountable, as there was no trait more unlovable than innocency, about
her character; but this very gentleness of nature, in contrast with the iciness, seldom found
in woman's heart, would, as an unavoidable result, serve to widen the two extremes.

The Sea-flower would, as time advanced, have sought refuge in her own home, from this mist
of unrest, which had by degrees spread itself around, but when she had spoken of the thing
to Mr. Santon, he had grasped her by the hand, as a drowning man would catch at a straw, saying,
if she would not entirely sever the golden thread which was once bound around their home circle,
she would defer her departure, for at least, a little time; and she had seen the tear, which
was as molten lead, welling up from the strong man's heart. Then she said, "It is my duty!
I will remain with you! I feel there is something which bids me stay; some mysterious power
controlling my destiny."

"May you have your reward!" was Mr. Santon's reply; and we heartily respond, "May she have
her reward!"

Never a word did Mrs. Santon receive from the Sea-flower, in return for her ungenerous treatment
of her, other than tones of kindness; and Natalie was happy under this new dispensation, for
she said within herself,--"I am but bearing a part of the burden which would crush dear Winnie's
heart;" and so she sang and played with her usual glad spirit, gliding about the house with
simple dignity, with a cheering word for every one, and, as Biddy said,--"she was an escaped
ray of light, too bright for the darkness to hide."

As we may foresee, this very light-heartedness of the Sea-flower only served to incite the
ire of Mrs. Santon, who saw that every new indignity which she had cast upon her, was returned
with more meekness of spirit. If Natalie had resented such conduct, giving "measure for measure,"
the stern woman could have borne it better; but as it was, it enraged her, that she could not
come within her sphere; and, if the truth were known, her senses were not so steeped in the
waters of insensibility, but that in her very heart she felt her great superiority over herself.

"I will put her down, yet!" she said to herself, after another return, through the Sea-flower,
of "good for evil." "She shall yet feel my power! and why Mr. Santon will persist in her staying
with us, is more than I can tell. But that is the way with these men! they will get strange
notions into their heads, which nobody can account for; even a wife's wishes are looked upon
as of little consequence, in comparison with their lordly commands. I should not be surprised
at any time if Santon should withhold a favor from me to lavish upon her! But I'm thinking
that he will before long find out what I am made of, if he thwarts my wishes. To be sure, his
daughter has become attached to her, but what of that? She must learn that she cannot have
every whim gratified; she is a spoiled child at best, and will not be likely to improve under
her skim-milk discipline. Leave me alone for managing affairs. I've got the staff in my own
hands, and all they can do wont make me anything but the Honorable Mr. Santon's lady! though
I'm greatly mistaken if he don't look with evil eyes on the day that made me his bride; but
that's not of the slightest consequence, as I used to tell my first husband. Poor fellow! I
suppose I was rather hard upon him once in a while; but I knew he was waiting patiently for
the day which should separate us. He little thought he would go first," and the woman laughed
aloud, as she thought how she had crept into the good graces of her present husband. "Leave
me alone for playing my part," she said, as seated in her own apartment, she listened to the
voice of Delwood in the drawing-room. "It is evident that her very life is wrapt up in Mr.
Delwood, and it is really quite a pity that so fine a fellow should be deceived; and lest she
should follow my illustrious example, I might as well interfere in their arrangements; and
if I can see aright, she has talked the enviable heiress into the belief that her brother is
a very paragon of perfection, for she knows right well that a good bag of money would be no
serious objection to his fishermanship. How they ever raised two such likely looking specimens
of humanity down there in the land of whales, is a mystery; but they'll find they cannot take
the precedence with Boston gentry. If I can avail anything, my particular friend Montague shall
try his luck in securing that portion of the heiress's estate which I shall be pleased to leave
her."

With these plans matured, she ushered herself into Delwood's presence, and in her blandest
manner made him welcome, initiating herself as far as possible into his good opinion, which
was no difficult task, inasmuch as he had been accustomed to look upon a character so spotless,
that he was not prepared for the detestable machinations of one who was not worthy the name
of woman. It had been far from the Sea-flower to breathe a suspicion that there was aught amiss
in the character of the flattering mistress of Santon Mansion. Her high esteem for Mr. Santon
had not permitted her to speak of the sad change, even to her mother.

"My dear," said Mrs. Santon, turning to Natalie, "in the pleasure which we must ever find in
Mr. Delwood's society, you have forgotten your engagement with the destitute family, which
you have taken under your especial charge, and poor Mrs. Brown's child is so ill, I fear a
few hours' delay in taking the necessary restoratives recommended by our physician, may cause
the poor thing to suffer; I would despatch an attendant, but I fear there may be some mistake
made, and I know your very presence will impart comfort to the poor woman."

"Oh, no, I had not forgotten them," replied Natalie; "but the physician said any time this
afternoon would do, as the little sufferer's disease is about turning, and we must await the
result."

"Yes, but I have such an anxiety about them, for in their ignorance they may act contrary to
orders, and so be the means of the little fellow's death. It will be a great relief to my mind
if you will just step around and look in upon them, as it is but a step, and I know Mr. Delwood
will excuse you for a few moments, and I will promise to do my best to supply your absence."

Natalie prepared to depart on this errand of mercy, and Delwood would have taken his hat to
accompany her, but Mrs. Santon held him fast by commencing a brisk conversation, from which
he could not with politeness take himself away.

"Miss Grosvenor excels in her performance of the latest style, which the Signor has introduced,"
remarked Mrs. Santon, endeavoring to draw him out, when the Sea-flower had departed.

"I am perfectly amazed at her original rendering of the Italian," replied Delwood, "and I think
I can safely say, that among all my sojournings among their people, I have never met with one
whose style is more pure than that of Miss Grosvenor's. I should certainly say that she is
of Italian birth, though she tells me that she has never crossed the Atlantic."

"She is evidently captivated with their people, or perhaps I may more properly say, with the
only person she has ever met of that nation," said Mrs. Santon, with a mysterious manner.

"To what or whom do you refer?" asked Delwood, in an altered tone of voice.

"Mr. Delwood, I feel that it is my duty to inform you of a matter, which has been a source
of no little uneasiness, not only to myself, but to every member of my family; and as you have
shown a manifest interest in Miss Grosvenor, it is not well that you should remain in ignorance
of what so deeply concerns your welfare."

"Speak! what can it be?" asked Delwood, pale with emotion.

"Do not allow yourself to be thus moved, I pray you; but what I have to say is, that three
months ago, we gave the Signor notice that we should require his services no longer, as we
had reason to believe his visits were becoming something more than mere professional calls,
and to our great consternation, we found that Miss Grosvenor was not entirely indifferent to
his marked attentions. I was the last to believe that Miss Grosvenor could so lose her self-respect
and standing, as to look upon a poor professor, who gains his bread by his own exertions, as
a favored competitor for her hand, and, it was not until I saw with my own eyes, that I could
credit what I had heard. I was satisfied in time, that his rapt admiration as he gazed upon
her, was something more than enthusiasm that she had excelled even his most ardent expectations;
and the expression of her beautiful face, as she concluded, might have been the envy of a greater
than the Signor. We dismissed the Signor, but he still continued his visits, under the plea
that it was his custom to give a few additional lessons at the close of a course, and if he
might be allowed, he should consider it a valuable acquisition to his own musical powers, to
continue for a time his exercises under Miss Grosvenor's superior talent."

As Mrs. Santon paused, Delwood, in a state of frenzy, exclaimed,--

"It cannot be! I will never believe that she is false to me, even though she should declare
to me with her own lips, that another's claims upon her affections were paramount to my own!
Excuse me, madam, but I think there must be some dreadful misunderstanding in regard to the
facts which you have stated. No! I would scorn myself if I had a doubt of her innocence! and
if such a thing might be possible, I would die rather than be forced to believe it! I will
tell her this very day what I have heard, but I will not degrade myself, or forfeit her trust,
by asking her if it can be so!"

"Be calm, my dear friend," said Mrs. Santon; "compose yourself, I pray you, and take my advice
in the matter. Say nothing of what you have heard to any one, but come here to-morrow morning
at ten, when the Signor will make his appearance, and from a private window, opening from the
conservatory, you may, unknown to any one, witness for yourself the truth of what I have said."

"I will follow your advice, inasmuch as I will reveal to no one what I have heard, until I
become like myself," said Delwood, endeavoring to compose himself as he heard the light step
of the Sea-flower in the hall; and as she entered, he arose to depart, pleading a slight indisposition
as an apology for his abruptness.

The calm, spiritual eyes of Natalie looked out upon him, as he walked rapidly down the street,
for she could not but notice an estrangement in his manners; but she did not mistrust that
an arrow, poisoned by sin in its vilest form, had been aimed at his heart.

The starry heavens of that night told that another day had gone to be with the past, and innocence
laid her head upon her pillow and slept, unmindful of plots of guilt, engendered of sin, which
might prove for her a draught of bitterness.

At an early hour the following morning, Clarence Delwood bent his steps towards the residence
of Mr. Santon. "Come here to-morrow, and you shall see for yourself,"--those words still sounded
in his ears, and, as he drew nearer the house, it seemed as if they grew louder and louder,
till his brain was nearly distracted. But would he privately watch her ways, whom of all others
in the "wide, wide world," he had looked upon as nearest perfection? No, he would not thus
debase himself.

It was at a much earlier hour than that which Mrs. Santon had named, that Delwood presented
himself, and handsomely feeing the porter who answered his summons, he asked to see Miss Santon;
"and, James," said he, "you need mention my presence to no other member of the family, as my
business is strictly private, for Miss Santon's ear alone."

"Yes, sir," replied James, twisting his face info a most knowing wink, as he smiled upon the
yellow ore, "I've been there before."

Winnie soon made her appearance with no little astonishment pictured in her countenance, that
Mr. Delwood should have honored them with what she termed "a sunrise call;" and that he should
have asked for her in particular, was a matter more mysterious. His manners, so unlike himself,
served to check at once her flow of spirits, which, in spite of the weight of oppression which
had marked the last year, would find vent, if not in a witty remark, in the expression of her
speaking countenance was it visible; but she was not slow to discern that some serious subject
was upon his mind, and became serious also.

In a few words he informed her of what he had learned from Mrs. Santon the day previous, but
what was his astonishment to find her totally ignorant of the circumstances, not hesitating
to declare the whole a base falsehood.

"I had not a doubt of the falsity of the report," said Delwood; "but what can have given rise
to such a statement? Surely, your mother would not wish to injure my feelings, by repeating
what may have originated, without foundation, among the servants, and which she could not have
herself credited!"

Winnie saw the truth at once, knowing as she did the character of her, whom, if she had ever
looked upon as a mother, must from this moment forfeit every claim upon her feelings, unless
it were that of utter contempt.

"Mr. Delwood," said she, raising herself to her full height, her slender fingers clenched together,
every nerve 'roused to action,--"if you would not insult me, never again call the woman who
has had the heart to cast such a slur upon the character of her whom we know is innocent, my
mother! It is not to injure your feelings that she has invented such a vile scheme, but it
is by injuring Natalie's character in your eyes, she may banish from her heart all future happiness.
Nay, do not start at such a strange declaration from my lips; you are the only person, out
of my father's household, who has a suspicion that our happiness is not what it once was; but
since it has come to this, I will, at the risk of disclosing to the world what it were wisdom
to conceal, establish the innocent; and rest assured that what I say is true,--this originated
not among the servants, for there is not one but would kneel and kiss the very ground upon
which our dear Sea-flower treads."

Delwood was thunderstruck.

"Indeed, I never could have mistrusted Mrs. Santon's character was so vile!" said he; "but
I can sooner believe this than that darkness is born of light. And has Miss Grosvenor suffered
the ill-will of this cruel, cruel woman, and never lisped a word but should lead others to
respect her? Noble girl that she is! thrice noble have these very evil designings proved her!
'Tis useless for intrigue to cope with purity."

"And she bade you come and see for yourself. What meaning is there in that?" asked Winnie;
for surely such an act would go to prove her innocence."

"If Mrs. Santon can stoop to the deed, which fortunately has been disclosed in time to prevent
the affair from coming to Miss Grosvenor's knowledge, she would not hesitate to do a meaner
thing, favorable to the furtherance of her plans; and it is my opinion there is more to be
learned in regard to this matter. I will foil her by following her own advice, and at the appointed
hour will station myself as desired, not as a spy upon her ways, but that I may sift this affair
to the bottom."

Accordingly, at the hour which Mrs. Santon had mentioned, Mr. Delwood's summons were answered
by the mistress of the mansion in person, who smilingly drew him to the conservatory, which
overlooked the drawing-room, where he could, unobserved by any one, notice every movement of
her whose very being was dearer than his own. Natalie was performing his favorite air, and
as he listened, he gradually lost sight of the object of his visit,--engulfed in the ocean
of bliss which her impassioned tones had spread before him, when he was recalled to a sense
of outward circumstances by the voice of the Signor, who, as the bird-like trill of her voice
died away, sprang to his feet, and in a voice hoarse with passion, exclaimed,--"Never!" and
was about to leave the house, when Delwood intercepted him in the hall, and taking him by the
collar, demanded to know the cause of his strange conduct. The Signor, in his peculiar dialect,
replied, "Do not detain me, sir! it were far better that none should ever know of the temptation
which well-nigh made me a villain!"

"You do not leave this house, sir, until you disclose to me what may concern my welfare! And
do not, I pray you, sir, force me to treat you as other than a gentleman, for if I mistake
not, you are yet worthy of respect."

"You do me proud, sir; but I would much prefer to keep my own tongue; for should it come to
the ear of madam that her secret is a secret no longer, I fear it may prove an injury to my
professional duties."

"Remember that I have said, sir, you do not leave this house until you have given me an account
of your strange conduct; but in doing thus, if I find you undeserving of censure, it shall
be no sacrifice to your reputation. I will pledge myself that you lose nothing."

"Since you are determined, sir, I will make a clean breast of it," said the Signor, dashing
several pieces of gold upon the floor,--"there, sir, is indeed the root of all evil! that gold
was placed in my hands by a woman, who would make me a tool for the carrying out of designs,
which I have not the heart to perform."

"Well."

"Madam, for some cause, has an under current of thought, which does not appear to be in keeping
with the more open sentiments of this family; for that amount of gold she connived with me
to express such sentiments toward Miss Grosvenor, as should fire you with a belief of her inconstancy,
and an attachment for myself. It was some time before I could be bought with gold, but she,
doubling the amount, I at last yielded to what, thank God, I have not had strength to perform.
Had it been other than Miss Grosvenor whom I was to injure, I tremble for my weakness in resisting
so great a temptation; but she reminds me too strongly of the tear which I have seen in my
mother's eye, when she prayed for her baby boy. No, sir, thrice that paltry amount should not
tempt me now to such degradation!"

"You have done well, sir," said Delwood, calmly, as he placed double the amount of Mrs. Santon's
bribe in the Signor's hand; "you have done well, sir; and mark my words,--gold can never relieve
a guilty conscience! Go, sir, and see that you lisp not a syllable of this to any one."

Mr. Delwood was about to take his leave, when he was met by Winnie, who tripped lightly in,
fresh from a morning walk. He grasped her hand and pressed it to his lips, saying,--"You have
helped to do away with the sinful impressions which did their best to fasten themselves upon
me. You will never be forgotten by me, and I know you will do your best to protect her from
the wiles of this hard-hearted woman, of whose deeds the world shall through me be none the wiser."

"I should be iron-hearted, did I not strive to make her happy; for it is in pity for my father
and his motherless child, that she consents to be separated from her own loved family."

Mrs. Santon had never the impudence to inquire in what way this matter terminated, but she
could see that her machinations had been foiled, as day after day brought Mr. Delwood a welcome
visitor to the house; yet this defeat did not subdue her bitter feelings towards the Sea-flower;
they only slumbered, to break out afresh on the first occasion that might present. Natalie
had observed the Signor's abrupt departure; she knew that something must be amiss, and questioning
Winnie in the matter, she disclosed to her what never came to the ear of Mr. Santon:

"I forgive her," said the Sea-flower, "and I can pity her; for perhaps she has never had dear
friends who might teach her how to love."

CHAPTER X.

THE MADONNA AND CHILD.

  "Pure and undimmed, thy angel smile
     Is mirrored on my dreams,
   Like evening's sunset girded isle,
     Upon her shadowed streams;
   And o'er my thoughts thy vision floats,
   Like melody of spring-bird notes,
   When the blue halcyon gently laves
   His plumage in the flashing waves."

        PARK BENJAMIN.

"Please, miss, a letter for you," said the post-boy, handing Natalie a letter, which she was
not long in discovering, was from her dear mother.

"I thank you, most heartily," said she, in her low, musical voice, which caused the youthful
sprig of Uncle Sam's department to leave incomplete the angle of forty-five degrees, which
he had been in the habit of considering as of no little importance in the perfecting of his
duties, as he went his daily rounds.

"Zounds!" said he to himself, as he went whistling up the street, "if I don't hope they'll
send down another document to her soon!" and his eyes wandered up to the little patch of blue
sky which was to be seen between the tops of brick walls.

The Sea-flower perused the letter, and sat, apparently buried in deep thought.

"Why, Natie, darling," exclaimed Winnie, as she came bounding into the room, "what has given
you such a wise look this morning? A letter, eh? good news, I trust; far be the day which shall
bring to you aught but happiness."

"Thank you, thank you, Winnie, for your good wishes; but I cannot well conceive of any other
than pleasure coming from my gentle mother's pen."

Winnie ran her fingers lightly over the keys of the piano, and Natalie did not suspect, as
she listened to her sprightly air, that there was a bright tear glistening in her eye at the
holy name of--mother.

"But you are unusually thoughtful to-day, Natalie," said Winnie, running her taper fingers
through the sunny tresses of her friend, "did I not know it were an impossibility, I should
say you had lost your best friend;" and putting her dimpled mouth close to her ear, she whispered
some mysterious words so softly,--so very softly, that were we disposed to turn listener, we
could only have distinguished that one word,--"Delwood;" but we might have seen the delicate
tinge of pink, which, tell-tale like, overspread the face and neck of the Sea-flower. Be that
as it may, there was a thoughtful look lingering about those expressive features, which could
even be traced, when at night-fall, a well-known step was heard, echoing with no unpleasant
sound along the corridor, and a hand, which, though of feminine delicacy, could have been fired
with sufficient nerve to have wielded a giant's weapon, at the invader who should come between
him and the gentle being, whose hand was not withdrawn as he held it reverently within his own.

"Ah, Miss Sea-flower," said Delwood, as he gazed deep into her eyes, "you are far away among
the invisible sprites of ocean to-night, are you? not one thought for us poor unfortunates,
who are so ungenial to those translucent ones, as never to have been initiated to their fairy
haunts. Really; I must get up a little smile at your expense, for you could not better please
an artist, in the composing of your features, if you were sitting for your picture. By the
way, have you seen the famous Madonna, whose great beauty is the theme of all conversation?
I am told it is a master-piece, by some gentleman who appears not anxious that his brilliant
artistical powers shall be published, as his name never accompanies his works, and the piece
in question was but by accident, brought to public view. It hangs, among others, in his fine
gallery of paintings, and is hung with a heavy drapery of black, which was by chance removed
by a gentleman, a friend of mine, who offered a handsome fortune at once for the prize; but
his rich offer was declined by the owner, who, to the gentleman's earnest desire that he might
become its possessor, replied,--'sir, that bit of inanimate canvas is all upon which my weary
life feeds! were you to offer me the wealth of the world, I would not part with that one small
picture! neither can I be wrought upon to produce a copy of the same, without violating feelings
which are sacred.' Whether this is a fancy piece, or if it bears the semblance of some one
of his kindred, my friend did not inform me, as he said his very tongue clave to the roof of
his mouth, as the sad artist spoke those few deep-toned words. I have not myself seen this
wonder, and whether I might be thus warm in my praises is a question, as you know I am insensible
to female beauty, if I may judge by remarks which from time to time have come to my ear, in
past years, from estimable mothers, whose beautiful daughters ought to have called forth my
glowing sentiments; 'but that which is wanting cannot be numbered,'" said he, stealing an arch
glance at Natalie.

"I have not seen this painting," replied Natalie, her countenance lighting up with a new thought,
"but I have several times visited the artist's rooms, though I have never been so fortunate
as to get sight of the mysterious connoisseur. Those who have met him, describe him as being
a middle-aged gentleman, of foreign birth, very marked in his polite, graceful manners; yet
there appears to be a great mystery hanging about him, and some have ventured to remark that
his is no common history, that he is not merely what he pretends,--an obscure artist! there
is that about his bearing which denotes high birth. I have admired his talent displayed, and
must see this remarkable production; for you know I am a great admirer of female beauty."

That night, Natalie mused over the events of the day,--the contents of the letter which she
had received, were first in her mind. Her mother had expressed an earnest desire to see her
child once more; among other things, she had briefly made mention of a matter in regard to
their pecuniary affairs,--quite a little sum of the comfortable fortune which Capt. Grosvenor
had, by dint of the many perils at sea, accumulated, had been lost in a recent bank failure;--a
failure, as Mrs. Grosvenor stated, which had proved a source of poverty to many a family, upon
their little island; many a widow had been obliged to part with the last dollar, which had
been earned by the seafaring husband, who had never returned to share the benefit of his labors;
Their whole community had been more or less affected by this failure. As to Mrs. Grosvenor's
own loss, she had said it was not heavy, or, at least, she had spoken of it as not resting
heavily upon her spirits; why then should the Sea-flower's thoughts dwell thus upon the matter?--she
still mused--"I fear this may have been a heavier loss, than the gentle words, so characteristic
of my mother's tenderness for me, may imply! she would not, if it were in her power to prevent,
have me feel that I must curtail my expenses in the least, and I know that my necessary expenses
here, must be a great tax upon her income; to be sure Harry has often said, that our dear mother
shall never know what it is to want; but for all that, I feel that I might do something to
repay my mother for all that she has done for me. Yes! it is my duty! and it certainly would
be a duty of pleasure, if I could do anything to assist her." This it was, which had caused
the thoughtful expression of the Sea-flower; this which had called forth the ever ready wit
of Miss Winnie--had detained Delwood's gaze! But what would be the sentiment of uppertendom,
when it should be rumored that the beautiful young creature, of the proud Clarence Delwood's
choice, had stooped so low, as to maintain herself by her own hands? How would Mr. Delwood
himself receive such an announcement? such thoughts did not occur to the mind of the noble
hearted girl; her every thought and act were of good, and she did not for once think, that
there were those, who could sneer at good motives. Ah! Natalie, this is a cold, unfeeling world,
at best! as experience of long years doth confirm. Thy little day hath not yet taught thee,
that the world is born of sin, for thou only lookest on the human face as divine. How Natalie
was to render assistance to her mother, by relieving her of any incumbrance, of which she,
herself, might be the cause, had not yet been matured, until Delwood had spoken of the popular
picture-gallery, of the unknown artist; when as we have said, her face was lit up with a new
thought. "I will seek this gentleman, and it may be that he can be induced to bring out the
dormant powers, which I am persuaded are in existence; for my love for his department of the
fine arts, knows no bounds! To-morrow I will visit him. This veil of mystery would seem a barrier,
yet perhaps it is of sadness, and I can conceive that such are of the tender hearted,--alive
to another's wants."

"Want!" she repeated aloud; it sounded strangely upon her ear; and indeed, we cannot couple
the thought with such as she! Can such fair ones of earth, meet with the chilling breath of
adversity? Yes, we may meet with them in our wanderings! Let us deal with them tenderly; for
it may be one of heaven's sensitive flowers. Stranger still would that word have sounded to
Mrs. Grosvenor and her son, in connection with their Sea-flower, yet it was remotest from their
minds, that such thoughts would find their way to her heart. Mrs. Grosvenor's circumstances
were indeed more embarrassed than she had expressed to Natalie, yet she had sufficient left,
wherewith they might by retrenching a little, live very comfortably. Accordingly, that Natalie
might not feel this change, she had dismissed her only servant (if we may do honor to old Vingo,
by dubbing him with a more elevated appellation), making some other restrictions in her domestic
affairs, for the sake of the child, whom she knew was not her own by kindred, doing away with
what she persuaded herself were but unnecessary indulgences. Faithful mother! thou wilt have
thy reward.

Natalie arose the next morning, refreshed by the sweet repose which innocence only knows, and
although the day was ushered in with clouds, and an occasional rain-drop, she proceeded to
put into execution the plans of yesterday; she had made no one a confidant of her designs,
not even Winnie; and when that little lady met her in the hall, all armed and equipped as the
weather directed, she exclaimed,--"where now? Miss Snow-wreath! are you going to temper your
indissolvable charms to an April shower? or is it to hunt up some poor little refugee; who
is so unfortunate as to be minus an umbrella, that you are so bereft of your senses, as to
venture out, afoot and alone, this disagreeable morning?"

"Neither the one, nor yet the other, my fair sister," joyously replied the Sea-flower, and
she tripped down the steps, smiling upon the little frightened rain-drops, which fell lightly
upon her, from the skies, not offering to treat them with such indecorum, as the spreading
of her umbrella, and, when Winnie called to her to come back, or if she would venture forth,
to take the carriage, she was far out of hearing. Arrived at her point of destination, Natalie
was so lost in admiration of the noble illustrations of the infinite mind of man, that she
had lost sight of her object, in visiting the unknown artist, until she was awakened from her
revery, by a voice near her, and looking 'round, she discovered a poor, dejected looking old
negro woman, kneeling with her hands clasped together, and her eyes fixed upon--Natalie followed
in the direction--it must be the beautiful Madonna! of which she had heard. Involuntarily she
assumed the position of the negress! What visions filled her soul! flitting to and fro. The
past, the present, and the future rushed in mingled indistinctness through her mind! and over
the chaos there floated a calm, which gradually took the form of recollections which now caused
her heart to beat loudly with the uncertainty, fraught with reality. That night! came fresh
again to her memory, when she had overheard her brother's words,--"she is not my sister by
birth!" The same holy passions filled her soul, and she gazed upon that face, the semblance
of which, she had many a time, ere now, looked upon in dreams! might they not have been waking
dreams?

"God grant dat such as she, neber know what it am to be torn from her childer!" groaned the
black woman, with a deep-drawn sigh.

"Ah, my poor woman," said Natalie, her eyes still fixed upon that spiritual face, "I trust
such has never been your lot."

"Bress you! missy, dem is de only kind words I hear dis many a day, since dey take me way from
my poor ole man, and de young uns! but I's not sure now but you's de spirit ob dat pure cretur,
(pointing to the Madonna) dat's speakin a few words, jus to cheer me like."

"And where are your children now? and your poor old man?"

"O! missy," said the woman, drawing a parcel from her bosom, carefully unfolding it, and holding
a large red handkerchief up to view,--"if I tinks I eber find de mate to dat, I'specks I die
wid de joy! but it am a long story, missy, it begins way back, a long fore your sweet eyes
see de light ob dis wicked world."

"Do not call it a wicked world; it is a beautiful world, which God has given us to live in!"

"Ah, missy, if oder white folks like you, I 'specks it be jus no world at all; it be all one
great heaben!"

"But what is this mark upon the handkerchief?" asked Natalie, for she had seen a fac-simile
of the little device, upon old Vingo's bandanna, which he used to lend her when she was a child,
and she had handled it so carefully, because he had told her that it was the most valuable
thing he owned in the world, beside his Bible, and she had looked up into his face, with her
great blue eyes, and asked him what the two little crooked marks were made to represent; and
he had told her they were to represent himself and his poor Phillis, for they were bent with
the sorrows of the world; and now, here were the same crooked marks, wrought upon the corner
of this black woman's handkerchief, which she seemed to treasure so much! What could it mean?
Natalie looked upon it in astonishment.

"Where did you get this?" she asked.

"My poor ole man gabe it to me, de last time I sees him, and he takes anoder like it, and say,
'Phillis, we will keep dem; dey's not quite as 'spressive as de garultypes ob missus's, but
when you sees dat, you may know dat old Bingo am tinking ob you."

"And do you ever think to meet him again?" asked Natalie, without betraying her emotion at
such a discovery.

"Oh, missy, if he know anyting about heaven, I might 'speck to meet him dar; but we not know
anyting 'bout dat good place den, and I 'specks he am clean used up by dis time; clean gone,
widout eber hearin' ob de good Lor'!"

"And your children,--you have never forgotten them?"

"No, missy, I neber forgets dem, and though dey brack as dar mammy, I lub dem as much as dat
pure creter dar; and I takes dem in my arms, and press dem to my heart de same, but I rudder
be called to part wid dem, dan dat such as she hab to gib up her chilen, for 'pears like I
can bear it better, cause I's brack."

"My good woman, you have a forgiving spirit for your oppressors, and, thank God, I have it
in my power to make two of my fellow mortals happy. What should you say, if I were to tell
you where you may find your husband?"

The woman looked at her, without speaking a word.

"Your husband is alive and well; and faithful old Vingo is at this moment in my mother's family,
where his wants, spiritual and temporal, are cared for; and he has often told me, if he could
but once again see his wife, Phillis, he should die happy."

The woman gave one long, piercing cry, and sank upon the floor. At this instant the artist
issued from an adjoining apartment, and stood gazing upon the scene.

"My God! what do I see?" exclaimed the gentleman, in a voice which instantly riveted the Sea-flower's
attention upon him.

"Tell me! in mercy tell me who thou art!" and he leaned against a column for support.

Had Natalie been heir to that weakness which is somewhat characteristic of the gentler sex,
she might have been terrified at such deep, impassioned language from a perfect stranger, trembling
with the certainty that she stood face to face with a lunatic; but no such fear was hers. Advancing,
she bowed low, in honor to his superior age, saying, "pardon me, if I am an intruder here;
yet, sir, an apology is needless, for who can resist the grace and beauty which is here displayed?
My presence, sir, has evidently disturbed you, and if you will permit me to ask one question,
I will retire;--the Madonna, that face of an angel, is she the pure production of your own
soul, or can it be that such as she has indeed been amongst us?"

"She has been, and has passed away!--has passed away," he repeated to himself; "I never thought
to meet her again until the dark river had been crossed! but what do I see?" and he passed
his hand over his eyes, as if to assure himself that he were not dreaming.

No, it was no dream; a gentle, living form stood before him who had sorrowed for his only child
nearly twenty long years, and was devoutly regarding those inanimate features to which his
soul had clung, as if it were of life; and his eye now wandered from the animate to the inanimate,--the
beauteous countenance of the Madonna. It was not unlike that of the Sea-flower; the features
were the same. Regaining his composure, the artist proceeded, in a peculiarly mellow tone of
voice--

"Dear lady, you will pardon my seemingly ill-mannered reception of you, I know, when you have
heard what has never yet passed my lips to any mortal! Near twenty years have expired since
I left my cherished home, on the other side of the Atlantic, and came to America. I met with
sorrow at an early age; the young wife of my choice was taken from me, and I should have been
overwhelmed with grief, had not the precious boon left to me by her, claimed my heart-felt
love; the beautiful babe smiled upon me, and I felt rebuked in spirit that I should thus murmur
at God's will, when in his loving kindness he had spared to me this, her very likeness, and
I came to smile again. I could then smile upon his chastening rod, but,"--and a deep shudder
thrilled his frame, "I have since been led to ask myself if there is a God! O! can a good God
thus afflict his children?"

"Pause, sir, I beseech you, ere you give utterance to such dreadful thoughts! Think of the
countless mercies which you have received at his hand,--weigh them well in a balance with your
sorrows, whatever they may have been, and you will find the measure of your blessings tenfold."

"Your words are as balm to my calloused heart; yet listen to me, and judge if my cruel fate
would not engender a dark distrust in a purer heart than mine. My child grew in strength and
beauty,--grew to be like her who had left us; she was the pride of my luxuriant home, the main
spring of my life! Yes, I could realize it then, while I could yet gaze upon her face and dream
of heaven; but other days drew near. It was in her twentieth year when my Natalie knelt before
the altar--a bride. She had given her hand to a noble-hearted American gentleman, upon whom
I looked as being worthy of my darling's choice; and as she placed one hand within his, she
took the hand of her father with the other, and whispered,--'you now give your daughter to
another, yet it shall only serve to bind me still closer to my father.' I was happy then; and
when two years later, I pressed my daughter to my heart, and bade her adieu, for the first
time, without a thought that it might be the last, I was happy; and when I pressed a kiss on
the cheek of her infant child, and grasped the hand of my noble son, her husband, I was happy;
for so full was my cup of joy, that I had forgotten the drop of bitterness which I had tasted
therefrom. But, alas! it was not so full to overflowing that there was not room for the draught
that was to be my portion. They sailed for America, to visit his home, when, after the settlement
of his estate in this Western world, they would return to make glad their father's home; that
day has not yet come! A year elapsed, and I had no tidings of them, yet I would not permit
the thought to dwell with me that I should never hear from them more, and another year passed
on before the despair entered my soul, which has been to me a burning flame ever since. I gave
my possessions to the keeping of another, and left my native Italy, to cross the deep, if I
might learn of the fate of my children. I went to the place he had told me was his home, but
I met with only strangers there. I inquired for the noble vessel in which my child had sailed;
she had not belonged on this coast, and thus were my earnest inquiries repulsed, day after
day, with a heartless--'we can give you no information.' I travelled from place to place, in
hopes to get some clue to the mystery which hung around my lost ones; but, alas, that was not
to be! I sought in vain. It was then a change came over me; I hardly knew myself. I concealed
my name, and lived a recluse, never disclosing to any one the history of my sorrows. But I
could not live thus, and I endeavored to divert my mind from this state of frenzy, by making
use of the talent, for which, in my heart of stone, I would not thank my God for bestowing
upon me! And so I have lived, as you find me,--'the unknown artist.' It is needless to add,
the beautiful Madonna, which was never designed for the rude gaze of public curiosity, is the
likeness of my child; and though I had no other than the impress of her features upon my heart,
to guide my trembling hand, yet I have got a soul upon that canvas! Sometimes I have fancied
that some good angel had not forgotten me, and had breathed her soul into those pure eyes!"

"And the child?" asked Natalie, in a suppressed breath, scarcely above a whisper.

"Her child was but a tiny babe; her features were not sufficiently developed to leave its memory
on my mind; yet they told me the little creature was like her mother. This, the Madonna's child,
is from life. In my wanderings I visited the island of Nantucket. I spent some little time
there, as I found the great hearts of those people more congenial to my weary spirits, than
the chilling air of avarice, which, in a measure, marks this western world. One morning, as
I strolled along the shore, looking out upon the sea, depressed in spirits, I observed a pretty
sight not far from me; an old negro sat upon the beach, and by his side an infant, some eighteen
months old, with her arms clasped about the neck of a large Newfoundland dog, while her eyes,
which were of the blue of heaven, were fixed upon the waves which rolled and broke in harmless
ripples at her feet. She was a beauteous child. I have never seen another upon whom I could
look, as the little angel that had gone. I traced her beautiful features, as I was so fortunate
as to have pencil and paper by me, and was about to pass on, when I observed the brother of
the child approaching; he was a noble little fellow, with the air of a young prince, and I
never shall forget his proud answer, when I asked him of his sister,--'We call her Sea-flower,
sir, for she came to us from God, and he smiles upon each little flower, as it lifts up its
head, all trembling with dew.' I breathed a blessing upon them both, for they had drawn a tear
from my heart of stone."

"Sir," said Natalie, as he paused, "Nantucket is my home; often have I listened to my dear
brother, as he has told me the pretty story of the sad gentleman whom he met, when I was but
an infant, and how he spoke to me so tenderly, and sighed for his own Natalie. I had no other
name then but Sea-flower, and I have been called by that name ever since; yet after that day,
my Christian name was Natalie."

The artist gazed upon her, and pointing to the Madonna, exclaimed,--"Thou art the child! you
are like the Madonna! Can it be that I have unconsciously restored to the mother her child?
None other than her own could thus resemble her!"

"In my innermost heart there has ever dwelt a mystery, which I can find no language to describe!
In my dreams I have had sweet visions of a beauteous being, who has smiled upon me, and made
me happy. The Madonna awakens all those pure feelings, and I cannot but look upon her as in
some way connected with my being; yet my own mother lives, and my affection for her is as for
no other being upon the earth."

"She is in heaven," mused the artist.

At this moment the door opened, and who should enter but Clarence Delwood, who was much surprised
to find Natalie thus unattended, in earnest conversation with the mysterious artist. She arose
as he entered, and presented him to the gentleman, but she had not yet learned his name. The
artist presented his card to Delwood, assuming the same frigid manner which had become his
nature. Delwood gave one glance at the Madonna.

"How is this, sir," asked he, in an excited manner, "that you have made use of this lady's
face to attract the notice of a vulgar public to your works? Who gave you authority for such
assurance as this, sir?"

"Calm yourself, Clarence," said the Sea-flower, mildly, "the gentleman had never seen me, to
his knowledge, until this morning. It rather becomes us to apologize for this intrusion upon
the sacred memory of his child."

Mr. Delwood listened with astonishment to the information which we have just learned, and his
eyes wandered from the beautiful Madonna to the no less beautiful being, whom he hoped, at
no distant day, to call his own, while a thought filled his soul with delight, and he said
to himself,--"I knew that she was infinitely above me, though outward circumstances would make
her of no particular distinction."

"Yes, there is a meaning in this, a mystery to be solved. Who is she?--this pure being. And
your mother still lives," mused the artist; "do you resemble her?"

"I am unlike any one of my family, so much so that strangers have noted it."

"And your father?"

"Is in heaven."

"Truly," mused the gentleman, "and your sainted mother likewise."

"Permit me to ask your address, gentle lady," said the artist, as his visitors prepared to retire.

"And in return you will allow me to come every day, and look upon this dear face?"

"You are the only person whom I have bade a welcome to my presence for years;" and bidding
them a "good morning," the artist retired to brood over other than his sorrows.

It was then that Natalie remembered the poor black woman, though not a thought of the object
of her own visit thither, crossed her mind. The woman was silently contemplating the Sea-flower,
as if she were an angel of mercy.

"Where do you live, my good woman?" inquired Natalie.

"One spot am not my home more dan anoder, missy; de wide earth am my home. But tell me, missy,
did ole Phillis hear you straight, or am she so warped troughout, dat she hot get de right
comprehensions?"

"What I have told you, you may rely upon; come here in a day or two again, and you shall hear
farther."

"Bress de Lor'! bress de good Lor', for sending de bright angel!" shouted the woman, as she
ran out of the house, throwing about her long arms, (now freed from slavery's chains,) and
making sundry other uncouth manifestations of her joy, so characteristic of her race, which
caused a policeman to realize the dignity of his station, by actually opening one eye, and
puffing diligently at the cloud of tobacco smoke which encircled the other.

A week later, and Natalie received a letter from her mother, in reply to her account of her
visit to the mysterious artist. It ran thus:--

"MY DEAR DAUGHTER,--It was with joy, mingled with a shade of sadness, that I perused your last.
Not that you, my innocent child, could impart other than pleasure to the meanest of weak mortals,
yet it brought afresh to my mind a subject, which, though it marks one of the happiest moments
of my life, owing to peculiar circumstances,--the memory of my dear husband being closely associated
therewith,--brings to my heart, also, a shadow of grief. That which I would say has to do with
yourself, my daughter, yet I cannot commission my pen to the revealing of this long-buried
secret. I would tell you with my own lips, of the mystery which hangs around your birth, for
I would seal the tale with a mother's kiss, looking upon my foster-child for an assurance of
love undiminished. You must now come home to us. I can bear this separation no longer. The
time has come when our dear little Sea-flower, for so many years the sunshine of our home,
shall test the strength of her affection for those who will ever regard her--a blessing from
that heavenly shore. Say to the author of the Madonna and child, that I would earnestly wish
that he may accompany you home, as he may be informed of that which so nearly concerns his
happiness. Adieu, my daughter, until I shall see you once more. From your affectionate mother."

Natalie folded the letter, and repeating aloud, "can I ever love my mother less?" she leaned
her head upon her hand, and wept.

The day drew near when the Sea-flower, accompanied by Mr. Alboni, (for such was the name of
the gentlemanly artist,) and Clarence Delwood, should seek her island home. This was anything
but a pleasant anticipation for Winnie, for since her mother's death she had learned to lean
upon Natalie, though younger than herself, and had received from her in times of trial, such
sweet counsel as would sink into her heart, giving her new strength, making her a wiser and
a better being. In the time which Natalie had been in the Santon family, there had been a perceptible
change in the character of the beautiful coquettish heiress. Those blemishes which the faithful
mother had discovered, upspringing in her daughter's youthful heart, marring her otherwise
lovable character, had been erased; not that she had lost in any degree that gay, cheery openness
of heart which we love so well to meet,--she was yet the Winnie Santon of days which had known
no lowering skies, the singing bird of a June morning,--save that an occasional plaintive note,
breathed out upon youth's freshness of life's realities.

It was the last night in which these maidens, Winnie and Natalie, might pour out to each other
the fulness of their hearts. The last, did we say, the last? distance would separate them ere
another sunset, and ocean would intervene; yet we have said,--the last. Folded in each other's
arms, they sat in the pale moonlight, each reading within the other's soul, an appreciation
of this holy hour. Holy hours are they indeed, which lead our thoughts far up beyond this mortal
sphere, pointing us to other than earth's vanities. Beautiful, yet so unlike, they were; and
ah, what is more beautiful than maiden purity? Woman,--she fell, yet her name will ever stand
foremost in the ranks of all that is exalting.

"And who will there be to love me, when you are gone? Who will talk with me so gently, and
keep my feet from the dangerous paths which surround me?" asked Winnie, as the discordant tones
of Mrs. Santon's voice stole in upon their quietude, from an adjoining apartment.

"If there is anything in this beautiful world of ours which can make me sad, it is the parting
from those whom I love; yet I know it is but for a little while. Dear Winnie, can you realize
how kind our Father is, that he has given us the promise of a home where there will be no more
parting,--never a farewell? and he will guide your footsteps; make him your friend, and though
all others should forsake you, you will be happy. He will be a better friend to you than ever
I have been, and remember, Winnie dear, when I am gone, should sorrow come to you, or bitter
trials mark your way, go to our Father for counsel, and he will give you sweet rest."

Thus did the Sea-flower endeavor to leave upon Winnie's heart that which should prepare her
for meeting the trials which she but too plainly foresaw would be her lot, from the unmotherly
spirit evinced by Mrs. Santon. Blessings on thee, noble girl! would there were more like thee
to be found in this sinful world below! But what is a blessing craved by the lips of frail
mortal, compared with the seraph blessings showered upon thy gentle head, from her who is looking
down upon her child, as thy voice is raised in prayer to the God of this motherless one, that
she may find refuge beneath the shadow of his wing.

The last farewell was spoken by poor Winnie, with an aching heart, Mr. Santon had pressed the
Sea-flower's hand, with a tear in his eye, as if reluctant to let her go, lest the severing
of one of the last ties which bound him to happy days, should be too much for his sorrowing
heart,--and she had gone, leaving her impress upon the hearts of all who had met and loved
her. Her spirit was the spirit of love, forgiving as she hoped to be forgiven,--her sins, which,
had it not been said of man, "not one is perfect," we should have looked upon as of no deeper
stains than are of the newly washen lambs, gambolling in fresh pastures of innocence. Even
to Mrs. Santon's unpardonable slight, in not giving her a parting salutation, pleading one
of her timely headaches as an excuse for her non-appearance at the hour of separation,--the
Sea-flower had left for her a kind farewell.

After an absence of nearly three years, Natalie stood once again upon the shores of her island
home. Everything was as when she had left, for the bustle and change of the outer world does
not disturb the quiet of this sea-girt isle. Her mother received her with tears of joy, that
fulness of joy which only the mother can feel, who, after a long separation from the child
whose beauty of character sheds a halo of honor around the household name, holds her to her
heart again, where she knows her to be safest from the world's contumely. Harry welcomed his
sister home, with the wild delight of his boyish days, regardless of the presence of strangers
in their family circle; while old Vingo, who had been beside himself for a week past, with
the prospect of at last actually beholding his missy face to face, capered about the room,
as if he were not so near his second childhood. The Sea-flower pressed his bony, black hand
to her lips.

"Ah! I know dat you neber change, missy; I know you always be de same! I tells mysef dat, dese
long years past, and bress de Lord, poor old Bingo hab one friend as long as he hab a hope
ob libin'!"

"Yes, my good Vingo," said the Sea-flower, "you may truly rely upon one friend,--that best
of friends, he will never forsake you; but," and she spread out the veritable handkerchief,
so precious to the poor black woman, before his wondering eyes, "you are deserving of the rich
blessings of earthly friends; for had I been tried, as it has been the will of an overruling
providence that you should be, I doubt if I had borne my cross with the submissive spirit which
you have manifested. Tell me," added she, pointing out the crooked marks in the corner of the
handkerchief, "do you recognize that?"

Vingo drew forth the bandanna, which always accompanied him in his wanderings, and laid it
by the side of the other. They were just alike; there were the two crooked marks upon each,
speaking as accurately as the most highly finished ambrotype of the day.

"Praise de Lord foreber!" shouted the negro; "I neber 'speck to see dat sight, while I not'ing
but ole brack Bingo! I can lib to de end ob my days wid joy at de sight ob dat! it am next
to finding poor Phillis hersef. Pray, missy, did you find dat in some accidental cotton bag?
or am Bosting only the Christian name for wicked old Kintuck? I shouldn't tink dat angels could
lib in dat cannibal hemisphere!"

It was with difficulty that those who witnessed the fellow's ludicrous movements, could refrain
from a smile; but when, at a summons from Natalie, the door opened, and the black woman, so
nearly allied to the human family as to have manifested an appreciation of the beautiful, stood
before them, there was not a dry eye in the room. It was an affecting sight, to witness the
meeting of this man and wife, who had been separated for so many long years, and under such
trying circumstances. To be sure, they were poor ignorant negroes, who are looked upon by a
large portion of the world, as only fit to be ranked with dogs and other dumb animals: yet
they have souls, hearts which had been given to Christ, and the meek and lowly Jesus, were
he now upon the earth, would not be ashamed to take this down-trodden race by the hand and
lift them up. God looks down from his throne above with pitying eye; he pities his children;
we grow strong in the assurance of his tender mercies; but let us remember,--he will avenge
with a powerful arm, the wrongs inflicted upon his feebler ones; for he hath said,--"My children,
love ye one another, even as your heavenly Father loveth you."

This meeting of old Vingo and Phillis, was enough to have softened the heart of the vilest
"Legree;" but probably, had one of those gentlemen, whose highly respectable occupation it
is to deal in the traffic of buying and selling--man, been present, they might have been led
to remark, "The silly creatures seem to imagine they have some feeling."

The evening shades descended. The night was wild, and the voices of the breakers rose loud,
as if responding to the angry aspect of nature; yet peace sat beneath the roof of Mrs. Grosvenor's
dwelling. The evening lamps were lit, and as Mrs. Grosvenor produced a small casket and laid
it on the centre-table, she thought within herself,--it was much such a storm only a few days
after our dear one came to us. Mr. Alboni sat with bowed head, as the mother proceeded to bring
forth evidences which should identify her darling child as being of the descent and lineage
of another line of ancestors than hers; while the Sea-flower, her hand clasped within that
of him who had found favor in the mother's eyes, prepared herself to receive any information
in regard to her destiny, which it should be the will of a just God to decree. The tiny lace
dress, which the infant had worn, when she was first placed in her foster-mother's arms, was
held up to view. It was of a costly fabric, embroidered heavily with needle-work, evidently
the production of the industry of some lone sister of convent life. The casket, the contents
of which had been so long treasured as things sacred was opened and the bands of gold placed
in Mr. Alboni's hands. He examined them closely; there were no initials, not the least mark
whereby he might learn of that which was of such vast interest to him, when lo! he pressed
the spring which had before yielded to Mrs. Grosvenor's touch, and behold!--the same features
which he had looked upon day by day, for twenty years, were revealed to him,--the features
of his Madonna--his child!

"My God!" exclaimed he, "I thank thee that thou hast brought me from darkness to light, not
only that I may acknowledge thy supremacy, but to bless thee during the brief remainder of
my days; if I may atone for my deep sin in living so long without thee, even doubting thy existence!
This is truly a convincing proof that thou art all in all. I here vow, that should the gracious
Lord see fit to chasten his servant, by taking away this, my last support, it shall only serve
to increase my faith in the love of my most precious Redeemer!" and with tearful eyes the old
gentleman held his grand-daughter to his heart.

"And is it really thus?" asked Natalie; "can it be that my mother has been looking down upon
me, from her home in the skies?"

"Your sainted mother is in heaven," spake Mr. Alboni.

The Sea-flower glanced towards her from whom she had ever received a mother's tenderness; there
was a smile upon her countenance, yet Natalie observed, though she would fain be happy that
her loved one was restored to her kindred, undoubtedly an advantageous discovery in every point
of view, it was like an arrow to her heart; for was she not her child? Natalie arose, and giving
one hand to her mother, the other to him whom she would henceforth look upon as a father, she
said,--"Yes, my own mother has gone to her home; she is an angel there, where I shall meet
her at the last; but you, my mother, can never be less dear to me; I must always look upon
you as my mother!" and throwing her arms about Mrs. Grosvenor's neck, she exclaimed, "though
others shall claim me by the ties of kindred, they never shall part me from you; your child
will never forsake you!"

It was enough; the widowed mother was not "written childless." Then it was that Mrs. Grosvenor
related every minute particular in regard to the child's discovery, and how she had been a
blessing to them all, repaying them doubly for their care. It was a long and interesting story,
to which this little circle listened, regardless of the raging elements without, with the exception
of the Sea-flower, who drank in every note of nature's mighty chorus, scarcely thinking of
the perils to which those who were riding at the mercy of the waves, might be exposed; for
her young heart shrank not from ocean's awe; she had always looked upon an ocean grave as a
hallowed place of burial.

"And your daughter's name was Natalie," remarked Mr. Delwood; "it is a singular coincidence
that the child should be named for the mother."

"It is all a miracle," said Harry, "and sometimes I have thought old Vingo not far out of the
way, when he declared 'Missy Sea-flower to have been left upon the beach by no other than the
Lord.'"

Gradually Mr. Alboni came to be like himself again. He was a remarkably handsome man, his countenance
denoting his generosity of heart. His delight in the society of the Sea-flower, as she pointed
out to him each day, some new attraction about her island home, knew no bounds. It was now
that Mr. Alboni directed his attention to his unsettled affairs in Italy. Had he lived out
his days as the unknown artist, without discovering an heiress to his vast estates, he would
probably never have given the subject a thought, and strangers, or some public institution,
would have realized a handsome legacy; but his every nerve thrilled now with new life for her;
every advantage which wealth could procure would be hers. But it was not only to look after
his pecuniary affairs that he laid the question before Mrs. Grosvenor, if her child should
accompany him to the land of her birth, but that she might become acquainted with the position
in life which she was every way capable of filling. And so it was arranged that Natalie, with
her grandfather, should make the tour of the eastern world, whither Mr. Delwood should accompany
them. After disposing of Mr. Alboni's estates, and visiting the lions of the East, they would
return, to make America their home; and it being left for Natalie to decide what spot should
be chosen as their future home, she said, stealing a glance towards Clarence Delwood,--"we
will return to my mother's peaceful island home, for we can be happy here."

Accordingly the day was fixed when they should depart, but the very evening before they would
sail, brought news to Mr. Delwood of the dangerous, and probably fatal illness of his father.
It was with a sad heart that he looked upon such a separation from his betrothed, for he would
necessarily resign the pleasure which he had anticipated, in escorting her to countries which
he had visited, and which had become dear to him. It was a great disappointment also to Natalie;
yet she sought to persuade him it was for the best; "she would soon return, and the separation
would bring a thrice joyful meeting."

It was a glorious evening; the soft moonlight kissed the white sea-caps, as each strove to
lift its head above its fellows, as if to gaze upon night's purity,--or, mayhap, they would
beckon that gentle one, who smiled upon their wild joy, as she reclined upon her lover's breast,
to join them, in their revellings. Upon the broad bank of the old South Shore they sat,--a
favorite resort of the youth and maidens of this little island of a mid-summer's eve,--old
Sankoty to the eastward, lifting high his head, imparting a flood of radiance in pity to thousands,
who watch with an intensity, to make the well-known light, rejoicing no less when they have
left it far behind, for well do they realize that they have passed one of the most dangerous
shoals to be found on the American coast. Behind them, distance about three miles, is the town;
there is no din and bustle borne on the night air to their ears,--naught is heard but the moaning
voice of the night wind, mingled with the ceaseless roar of the ocean. Here, far from the world's
contumely, no eye to see, no ear to hear, save that of Him who is omnipresent, were those vows
of love renewed, and registered above. Many a fair maiden has here since plighted her faith,
here given her hand to the loved one of her choice, (heaven bless the union of Nantucket's
fair ones!) yet the night has never since looked down upon two of more perfect oneness of heart,
than those of whom this serene night bore witness.

"And will you still retain your foster-name?" asked Delwood, "or will you travel under your
grandfather's Italian name? By the way, I have not heard the name of your father."

"Paul Sunderland was my father's name."

"Sunderland! the Lady Sunderland! I have seen your mother, Natalie!" exclaimed he. "It was
none other than she, the kind, beautiful lady who sang to me when I was but a child, in Italy;
she whom I begged to take me to that beautiful place again! Ah, it comes to me now, in no dream,
but a reality; I have always thought, since I first beheld you, that I had somewhere, at some
unknown time, seen a picture which was like you; but, strange, it was none other than the mother
of my own dear Sea-flower!"

"And your eyes have looked upon my mother, Clarence," said she, gazing into his very soul,--"and
she has smiled upon you? Oh, I shall love you with a holier love for this!" and the young girl
paused, and trembled, as he held her to his heart, for the thought came rushing into her soul,--"Oh,
what a fearful thing is this,--this depth of fervent love!"

The morrow came; came to all of our friends who were gathered around the hearthstone of the
widow Grosvenor, with joy, for genial rays, other than of a May morning's sun, were in their
hearts; yet those indescribable tones, which under any circumstances hang around the word--farewell,
were gradually, unawares, jarring, jarring those gentler notes of peace, even before spoken.

"Farewell!"--the mother strained her child to her heart again, and again put her from her,
to embrace her more closely. Farewell, came welling up from that proud brother's heart, with
the same breath, thanking God for giving him a sister. Broken sobs measured the bitterness
of the parting of those down-trodden ones, who, "by an angel of mercy," had been lifted up,
to taste one drop of that bliss upon earth, which the white man holds within his power to give
or withhold. Farewell!--was it not that one word, which marked the parting of those two, whose
hearts had been united above? "Adieu to my island home," said the Sea-flower, and the wild
waves whispered,--"we are lonely."

CHAPTER XI.

WE ARE GOING HOME.

  "The sounds that fall on mortal ear
     As dew-drops pure at even,
   That soothe the breast, or start the tear,
     Are Mother, Home, and Heaven.

  "A home, that paradise below,
     Of sunshine and of flowers,
   Where hallowed joys perennial flow,
     By calm celestial bowers."

        ANONYMOUS.

Time wore heavily on with Winnie Santon, after Natalie had left them. Left as she was, much
in her unnatural mother's society, who seemed to be never more pleased than when she might
thwart her designs, or, in some manner act so as to make those about her uncomfortable, it
was not to be wondered at, if she did sigh for other days, and a confidant, to whom she might
unburden her heart. Her father spent but a small portion of his time at home; on the contrary,
he rather sought to avoid the fireside, which had once been so dear to him. His feelings, whatever
they might have been, were kept locked up within his own breast, yet Winnie could read the
look of sympathy which he bent upon her, as he grasped her by the hand, ere he hurried away
to banish painful recollections by duties "on change." When difficulties, which Natalie had
foreseen, caused Winnie's heart to ache, she would school herself to meet the injustice as
she knew she would have done; and the timely advice of the Sea-flower proved to the lone girl
a valuable legacy. She had heard from Natalie, through the correspondence which for some time
she had kept up with our friend Harry Grosvenor, the which letters were anticipated and perused
with no common interest; indeed, her happiness, scarcely realized by herself, was closely allied
therewith. Mrs. Santon looked upon these ever punctual letters, which appeared so frequently
among the post-boy's morning deposits, with an evil eye, yet they did not serve to banish the
schemes of her invention in regard to Mr. Montague, as a favored competitor for the hand of
the heiress; and it was his unwelcome visits, which were not unfrequent, that counted among
the numerous trials which weighed more and more heavily upon her spirits. Poor Winnie! each
life is made of joys and sorrows.

The death of Mr. Delwood was a deep affliction to his son, for although he was an austere man,
forbidding in his manners, he had always manifested a spirit of tenderness for his only remaining
relative, and Clarence now sought to dispel the loneliness which was creeping over him, by
directing his attention to his father's unsettled estates, which was no light task, as Mr.
Delwood had been a gentleman of great property. The life-like specimens of artistical skill,
executed by Mr. Alboni, known only to Boston lovers of the fine arts as "the unknown artist,"
were disposed of by Clarence Delwood, in accordance with the wishes of Mr. Alboni, who, in
entrusting the Madonna to his keeping until his return, placed not only the likeness of the
mother before him, but it possessed him of a correct likeness of his betrothed.

The noble steamer Atlantic, after a most favorable passage of twelve days, carried our friends
safely to the desired port of Liverpool. As Natalie stood once again upon terra firma, she
could hardly credit that over three thousand miles of ocean separated her from her home,--that
the same waves which washed the shores of her cherished island, broke upon the shores of this
Eastern world.

Mr. Alboni was in the happiest frame of mind as they made the tour of England and Scotland,
for from thence they would repair to his own loved Italy. Over the mind of the tourist, visiting
the Old World for the first time,--countries where have transpired thrilling events recorded
in history, what an immensity of thought and feeling sweeps! It was thus with Natalie; she
could not realize that she was treading in the footsteps of royalty, who living in long past
days, had held sway over this land, had looked upon this land of "merrie England" as their
home. London, like a mighty Babel, rose before them, her gigantic towers telling of man's greatness,
while the resplendent shining of the sun, reflected from a million turrets, proclaimed that
there was one above all. St. Paul's, with its dome of grandeur, reflecting not only honor upon
her world-renowned architect, Sir Christopher Wren, but standing a living memento that Christ
hath built his church upon earth.

Westminster must be visited by every stranger. As Natalie roamed over this vast structure,
in itself a world of curiosity, like so many small churches roofed in by one great canopy,
she lingered in the south transept, in what is called the Poet's Corner. Here are the tombs
of many of the most famous poets of England. Chaucer, Edmund Spencer, Francis Beaumont, and
others, have tablets here erected to their memory, while in other chapels are monuments erected
in memory of sovereigns, who have long since gone to render an account of their deeds done
here, to the one great Sovereign of the universe. As the eye of Natalie rested upon the tomb
of the gentle Mary, Queen of Scots, the history of whose brief life, and the many cruel indignities
which were heaped upon her, rushing to her memory, she stood as if riveted to the spot, when
a voice near her attracted her attention, and a rough-looking old sailor, tarpaulin in hand,
threw himself at her feet, exclaiming,--"Bless the memory of old England! She is more sensible
than I ever thought for. They couldn't have done a nobler thing than to have placed her likeness
here!" and thus the jolly fellow's tongue flew, as if he would re-spin all the forecastle yarns
of his lifetime, much to the discomfiture of the eagle-eyed guide, who bade the intruder begone;
but our nautical friend, deigning to give this polite invitation to depart no further notice
than he would have given to the juvenile whales, as they were taking first lessons in spouting
of their maternal protector, the guide seized him by the shoulder, and was about to show honest
Jack what virtue there was in "force of arms," when Mr. Alboni interfered, saying,--let us
at least hear what the honest fellow would say for himself."

"Your honor,", exclaimed Jack, whose very countenance spoke as plainly as a nose which appeared
as if it had been imitating the feathered tribes, in their efforts to satisfy thirst, for so
long, that its tendency had become upward in sympathy, and eyes which it were difficult to
follow in the direction of both at the same time, could speak, that he who had been accustomed
to guiding his bark by stars of the first magnitude, all his days, would not now, at this age
of life, be guided by this "star" of diminutive light. "Your honor," said the astonished tar,
as he discovered the beautiful form before him to be actually possessed of life and breath,
and was no senseless piece of statuary, "shiver my topsails, but if I didn't take the lady
to be her representation, my name's not John Sampson!"

"Sampson!" exclaimed Natalie, actually taking him by the hand, "Are you John Sampson?"

"I'm Sampson the world over, my lady," replied the tar, "and why shouldn't I be? I've come
all the way from Yankee America, to visit my native dust-heap, which never produced, beside
its daily growth of what might be known the other side of the water, as nature's own pie-plant
and sausage-improver, but one Sampson; but," added he, in a subdued voice, "may I ask who can
take enough interest in a poor fellow, who never belonged to nothing, as to speak his name?
If I had not seen her go down with my own eyes, I should say that the noblest lady that ever
lived was standing before me; but she's gone where only her kind do go;" and the rough man
drew the sleeve of his jacket across his eyes.

"I am the sister of a little sailor-boy, whom you once rescued from imminent peril,--perhaps
death; and I rejoice that fortune has favored me with a sight of your honest face, that I may
repay in part, at least, the debt of gratitude which we owe to you,--Harry Grosvenor, do you
remember him?" asked she, placing her well-filled purse in his hand.

"Ah, that noble little specimen of young America! a young hero!--could have jumped over two
Johnny Bulls, although my dust-heap happened to be this side of the water. Well do I remember
him! and you are the sister that he used to talk about, till I really thought the fellow had
got into a lunatic's overall?"

"Yes, I am his sister," said the Sea-flower, and she might have added,--your name has never
been forgotten in my prayers; but this was no place for the illiterate, though good-hearted
sailor's ludicrous expressions, and having doubly feed the guide, who did not witness a scene
like this often, within these walls, which were looked upon as sacred by other than his eagle
eye, our friends sought the Adelphi, whither, at Mr. Alboni's request, Sampson joined them;
for there was something in the words which he had uttered, that struck upon that gentleman's
ear; and yet, what it was, was not clear to his mind.

"You have spoken of some noble lady," remarked Mr. Alboni; "pray tell me if you have never
met with but one whom you could distinguish by that title, in all your travels?"

"And for a very sensible reason; there never was but one like her; or, that is, I have always
thought so until to-day," replied the tar, glancing toward Natalie; "for my old eyes have seen
pretty much everything they have got in this little world. Ha! I should like to see the inch
of land or water that my foot hasn't measured."

"Let us hear a little of your history, my good fellow: begin with the beautiful lady," said
Mr. Alboni, proudly contemplating his grand-daughter.

"It's a yarn, your honor, that hasn't been spun to every jack tar that's sailed the seas, for
I've a sort of feeling about me, that her memory shouldn't be used to gratify common curiosity;
and, sir, it's only through the lady's sweet face, so much like her, that I am induced to tell
the story, word for word. Ye see, it was about twenty years ago, come September, and I shipped
for a voyage to America in the De--De--, well, never mind the name; those Frenchmen always
spile their crafts with a jaw-breaker of a name. Well, we had a fair time of it, till we got
pretty well on to the American shores; and as for me, I never expect to enjoy myself again,
as I did the first part of that voyage. We had quite a crowd of passengers, and among them
was a gentleman, with his lady and child; if that wasn't the handsomest couple that I ever
sot eyes on, then I've missed my reckonings! The lady,--why, your honor, it fairly dazzled
my eyes to look at her! She always had a kind word for everybody; even us old tars she would
talk with, as if she wasn't the best lady in the world; there wasn't one of us but would have
gone to the mast-head feet first, to do her a favor; and as for gold, she wasted a young fortune
on our ugly selves. We were within a couple o' days sail of New York, when one of those moist
fogs came up, such as will make a fellow lose a whisk of his patience, if he happens to have
any. Well, we kept on, as we thought, in the same course, for about twelve hours, when, like
a clap of thunder, we struck fast upon a rock! It was as calm as any day I ever saw, but our
sails were all set, and that with the run of the sea, gave us no small shock; but our captain
hoped we might not have received any serious damages, and set the carpenters to work to find
what our situation was. Well, your honor, it wasn't ten minutes after we struck, afore we began
to settle down. I knew I'd sailed the ocean longer than our captain, and when I found that
we were going down, I ran below, and found the gentleman and his lady, and told them just how
matters stood with us, and offered to stand by them till the last; for we had but two boats
aboard, and I knew there'd be a scene. When the lady heard this, she turned to her husband,
and said,--'I am prepared, to share whatever is to be your fate, Paul; but God in mercy save
our child!" We went aloft to the hurricane deck, and such a sight I have never seen since!
every man, woman, and child that we met there, was looking for something, if no more than a
straw, to save themselves. We had now settled down even with the water, when I, 'spying a large
trough floating near, made for it, and the gentleman taking the babe from its mother's arms,
spread a few clothes in it, and lashed the little thing into this curious looking craft; both
gave it one last kiss, and it was launched on the wide ocean. At this instant the lady drew
from her pocket a roll of parchment, and handing it to me, said,--"You may be saved; if you
ever hear from my child again, put this into safe hands for her; but if you should never hear
of her, keep it for yourself, and may God be with us all." At that moment we were carried down,
and as I rose again, I caught at a spar which was floating near, and looking after my friends,
I saw them rise far to leeward; they were still clasped in each other's arms. I would willingly
have gone down if she might have been saved; but that could not be, and I was borne far out
to sea. The fog lifted, but I was not able to make my whereabouts, and in this condition I
was left for two days, when I was picked up by a vessel bound to Liverpool direct. I told the
captain my story, and found that we had missed our bearings, that our vessel had been wrecked
upon the Nantucket shoals. Our voyage proved to be a long and stormy one, for the September
gales took us on to the coast of Africa; and when a year after I shipped for New York, I heard
nothing of the child, and have always supposed her little bark took her to a better land."

"And so it did!" exclaimed the weeping Natalie, holding the great rough hand of the tar within
her own; "the little bark bore her in safety to a peaceful shore, where she was received with
open arms by those who have filled the place of her natural parents. You see before you, my
honest friend, no other than the child of that gentle mother, whose parting from her babe you
witnessed."

Sampson gazed upon her with astonishment, and clapping both hands to his head, as if to assure
himself that his exterior was yet in a healthful condition, whatever transmogrification the
interior might have undergone, he exclaimed,--"I'm not so sure, after all, that my name's Sampson!
I really begin to think that I must have gone down, with the rest; and yet, I could swear to
it that I'm a portion of that dust-heap! If my topsails aren't shivered this time; clean gone
by the board!" and as if to verify his words, he sank deeper into his chair, and broke into
such a train of musing, as caused the little son of Africa in attendance, to jingle his glasses
right merrily, that the wild bursts of his uncontrollable mirth might sound the less.

Mr. Alboni could scarce credit what he had heard. "And the parchment," inquired he, "what was
the purport of that?"

The tar sat as one in a trance, but by certain gesticulations, it appeared that his skysails
were not so shattered that he did not comprehend the drift of the question, and after much
tugging and pulling at an old waistcoat, which was worn beneath the round-about, he produced
a roll, which, from twenty years' wear, it having been his constant companion during that time,
by sea and by land, had become in appearance of an uncertain nature, and handing it to the
gentleman, he said, after examining the miniature which Natalie put into his hand, of her mother,
"The document belongs to her, and if I'd a happened to have met her on the sea, I might have
known it, even If I hadn't seen the picture of the noble lady, for she's the exact imitation;
but I never can get the land fog out of my eyes when I'm ashore. That's a sorry looking bit
of paper, your honor, but it's what'll buy more than one twist of pig-tail."

Mr. Alboni perused the document. He was astounded!--not so much at the contents of that soiled
bit of parchment, which was the instrument by which Natalie, or the holder, could come into
possession of a handsome fortune; but it was at the honesty of this whole-souled sailor. Was
it possible that this poor fellow, who gained his bread by dint of hard labor, having a fortune
within his grasp, which he conscientiously could have called his own, had not disturbed a farthing
thereof?--choosing rather to reap the fruits of his own industry, treasuring this rich legacy,
as sacred to the memory of a friend.

Is there indeed such honor to be found in the breast of fallen man? Aye, 't is the heart of
the noble sailor that beats with a heroism like this! To him who goeth down to the great waters
in ships, such honor is due!

"And you have had this in your possession for more than twenty years," said Mr. Alboni, "and
yet have never helped yourself to a cent of that which was rightly your own? Pray tell me,
how would you have disposed of this wealth at last, had you never heard of an heiress to the
estate?"

"D' ye see, sir, I haven't travelled this world over so many times, without making a beacon
light occasionally. Now there's a difference in light-houses, yer honor. There's the revolving
light, and many other kinds of light, but the brightest of all is that steady light which shines
into the darkness of the poor sailor's soul. I first made that light, sir, at the Seamen's
Home, in New York, and it was there I made up my mind that I would lend this money to the Lord,
for I was convinced that that would be the most profitable investment; and I've been thinking
of it more and more, for these last few days, if I hadn't better settle this on the Home, for
you know these iron frames will give out after a while; men don't live to see nine hundred
years nowadays, though I'm named after the strongest fellow that ever handled a harpoon."

Mr. Alboni read the document to his grand-daughter, the effect of which was, that certain sums
of specie, deposited in the bank of ----, by the Honorable Paul Sunderland, could by the bearer
of this instrument, be withdrawn at sight.

Sampson's tongue was still flying with rapidity, as if his auditors had not been void of a
number, while Mr. Alboni and Natalie were holding a consultation aside.

"You are right, my child; you will never miss this from the wealth, which I thank God I have
it in my power to place in your hands. Let it be as you say,--divide this sum between your
protectors."

"I thank you, my dear, generous father," said Natalie, imprinting a kiss upon the cheek of
her relative; "you have made me happy. I will send this most acceptable gift to my dear mother,
not paining her feelings with the thought that I would seek to repay her love for her child
with gold, but as an expression of her daughter's filial affection; and not only will I reward
this honest man with the half of this sum, but he shall have the pleasure of presenting with
his own hand this offering to my mother."

To this latter proposition Sampson acquiesced with pleasure; he was delighted with the prospect
of once more seeing his young shipmate, whose mysterious allusions to the Sea-flower he could
now comprehend; but as to himself receiving so liberal a legacy, he was not prepared to look
upon the proposition as favorably. 

I shouted to him to get out of the trench. It took a second or two to get clear, as the trench
was deep, and he was not a tall man, so he was scarcely out when
the tree fell with a crash on the exact spot where he had been at
work.

They parted,--the honest tar to take his way to Columbia's happy land, while Mr. Alboni and
the Sea-flower would prolong their visit for a little here, then depart to feast their eyes
upon Italian skies. Sampson looked long after the gentle form of the Sea-flower, as he left
them, for when might he see so fair a sight again?

       *       *       *       *       *

"And this was the home of my mother," mused Natalie, as arrived in Florence, our tourists entered
the arched gateway, which led to the broad domains of the long absent master, just as the sun
was sinking to rest, his soft lingering rays kissing the fleecy clouds, o'er which a blush
came and went, now deepening as the rose carmine, giving place to the most delicate tinge that
e'er sat upon a maiden's cheek,--born of pure modesty. The scent of the delicate jasmine perfumed
the air, while the pensive strains of some fair one, soft and clear as the tones of a wind-harp,
was borne on the stillness of evening to the ear of the lovely Sea-flower, who, reclining upon
the bosom of her father, her sunny tresses mingling with the silvery locks, which told that
he had seen many winters, whispered in words low and musical,--"My angel mother,--I can feel
her presence near; she has breathed this blissful air; can it be more heavenly there?" With
her eyes still upturned, as if their mildness might pierce the veil of azure, her lips moved,
as they had ofttimes done before, in praise and thanksgiving for the wondrous beauty which
our Father, in his boundless love, hath set before his children. As Mr. Alboni gazed upon each
familiar object, surrounding his beautiful villa, he was greatly surprised to find everything
in the same state of preservation as when he had last beheld his home, once so dear; instead
of an air of desolation, everything falling to decay, as would be a natural consequence attendant
upon the long absence of the family, the scrupulous care and attention of some interested one,
was apparent on all sides. Even the little ivied bower, which Mr. Sunderland had arranged with
his own hands, when he first smiled upon his beautiful bride, was still in existence; and here
did Natalie dream away many a happy hour, during her stay in dear Florence.

The old man and his frugal wife, to whose keeping the premises had been entrusted, and who
occupied a small tenement upon the grounds, could not have been more surprised if one had appeared
to them from the dead, than were they when Mr. Alboni stood in the door of their cottage.

"I told you his honor would come again!" said the woman, turning to her husband; "but I was
really afeared it mightn't be in our time; and as we've no one to leave in our shoes, I'm of
the 'pinion that the place would've dropped off to some stranger."

"Ha, yes," replied the husband, "my old woman's never far out o' the way, though she does sometimes
talk as if she expected to become extinguished; but for all that, she's equal to two common
ones. But I'm particularly glad you've come home, on a good many 'counts, for if the place
must go into any other hands than an Alboni, I'm not over anxious to witness the change in
the coat of arms."

Mr. Alboni received this compliment as it was intended, and as one motive in visiting his native
land again was to dispose of this estate, he now directed his attention to the future comfort
of this most worthy couple; for the domestics who had served in the family of Alboni, must
not suffer from want. Accordingly a comfortable cottage, adjoining these lands, was obtained
for their use, and an annual income, sufficient to supply their wants, settled upon them for
life; and so with the estate of the Albonis, whose last representative of the name would soon
depart, for a memorial of days past, this aged couple hoped to spend in contentment the residue
of their days.

Amid all the splendor and gayety of fashionable life in Italy, the Sea-flower was never so
happy as when seated in the ivy bower, which looked out upon a little lake, the same which
had been her mother's favorite place of retreat, where she might watch the ever-changing face
of the mellow skies, or roaming through those ancient halls, she might feast her eyes on the
many antique surroundings; but most of all, she loved to linger in the great reception hall,
whose walls were hung with the portraits of her mother's family, for many past generations.
Some of those countenances denoted men of much strength of character, amounting almost to a
fierceness, but in nearly every female face Natalie discerned that same gentleness of spirit,
which, unknown to herself, was the expression of her own spiritual countenance. Beneath the
portrait of the last Mrs. Alboni was a place reserved for that of her child,--the Lady Sunderland;
but by some circumstance it had never been placed there. During the period of our heroine's
stay in Italy, she spent much of her time in the home of her ancestors, to which she became
greatly attached; but once having been introduced to an admiring Italian assembly, it was no
easy matter to remain in seclusion. This new star, so mild, yet brilliant, was the theme of
present conversation. Some years later, the eminent arboricultural author, John Loudon, writing
on the subject of the relative ages and sizes of trees, wrote to the Duke for permission to
view his Waterloo beeches. The Duke had never heard of Loudon, and his writing being somewhat
illegible he deciphered the signature "J. Loudon" as "J. London"

(the Bishop of London), and the word "beeches" as "breeches." "For what on earth can the Bishop
want to see the breeches I wore at Waterloo?" said the Duke; but
taking a charitable view of the matter he decided that the poor old
Bishop must be getting irresponsible and replied that he was giving
his valet instructions to show the Bishop the garments in question,
whenever it suited him to inspect them.

The Bishop was equally amazed, but took exactly the same view about the Duke as the latter had
decided upon concerning the Bishop. No doubt the mystery was eventually cleared up, and Bishop
and Duke must have both enjoyed the joke.

The shade of the beech is so dense that grass will not grow beneath it; it gradually kills
even holly, which is comparatively flourishing under the oak. The beech woods in the Forest are
thus quite free from undergrowth, and the noble trees with their smooth ash-coloured stems can
be seen in perfection, giving a cathedral aisle effect, which is
erroneously said to have suggested the massive columns and groined
roofs of Gothic architecture.

Her eye was fixed upon the lake,--its glassy ripples a striking contrast to the giant waves
upon which she had ever looked with delight. Ah, who may divine her thoughts, as she muses
thus? A faint smile plays with the dimples around her mouth, and but for the words she whispers,
one might indeed think her intent upon the ripples which kiss the shore at her feet; but no,
she is transported to where the breaker's roar is heard, and a proud, noble form she sees,--his
piercing eye bent upon the sea. Full well she knows for whom his heart thus wildly beats; "dear,
good Clarence," she whispers, and starting from her revery, she kneels in prayer. "My Father,
God, thou art merciful unto the weakest of thy frail ones, keep thou my heart to thee alone;
may I have no other gods before thee; cast out all idols, if any there be, and breathe thy
spirit within my soul; and may thy will be done."

"Amen," was the response of bright ones, of upper spheres, and may we receive strength to say,--"Thy
will be done."

"Adieu, dear home of my childhood," spake Mr. Alboni, as the dim outlines of the land of his
nativity at last faded in the distance; and burying his face in his hands, he gave himself
up to his own reflections, from which Natalie would not recall him.

Arrived in Liverpool, the steamer in which they were to have embarked had sailed; consequently
a few more days were added to their sojourn there; but when at length their proud steamer left
her pier, accompanied by many heartfelt good wishes that she might be attended with all success,
that her voyage might prove most favorable, the Sea-flower wept tears of delight, that she
might once more listen to those voices of the deep; and calmly gazing upon the countenance
of Mr. Alboni, she said,--

"Father, we are going home."

Her words fell upon the ear of an officer of the ship, a gentleman of that nobleness of soul
which alone constitutes a true man; one whose kind and gentlemanly consideration of the comfort
and pleasure of those who have, from time to time, crossed that three thousand miles of ocean
which separates Liverpool from New York, have before been publicly mentioned, and will long
be remembered by those who have before come under his guidance. "We are going home,"--the officer
raised his hat as he passed the Sea-flower, involuntarily repeating her words,--words which
many times have been idly spoken, but how full of meaning.

As that gallant steamship made her way over the rolling billows, like "a thing of life," as
if indeed she recognized the course o'er which she had so many times borne aloft her proud
head, in seasons of tempest as well as of sunshine, there was not one who walked her decks,
but looked upon her gigantic form as an ark of safety, rather than the frail plank which only
separated not far from three hundred immortal beings from an ocean grave. Several days' sail
left "merrie England" far behind, and as they drew nearer the American shores, many an eye
was deluded with the belief that it had been the successful one, in being the first to make
the outline of the nearest shore of this land of the free. There was the eye of youth, lit
up with the light of innocence, which when riper years should have left their impress, might
have given place to more of guile; while hand in hand, along her peaceful decks, roamed old
age and infancy, alike joyous in the air of cheerfulness which reigned with all around.

It was near the hour of mid-day, weather favorable, with the exception of a fog which had suddenly
sprung up. Occasionally the signal bell sounded, that if any vessel were in their neighborhood,
she might know of their whereabouts. The fog as suddenly lifted as it had shut in upon them,
but to close down again heavier than before. Natalie had not, as most of the ladies, gone below,
but stood, intent upon those new thoughts which the veil of fog, which had shut out all sight
and sound, save an occasional tone of the bell, had inspired, when,--a crash, which shook their
vessel from stem to stern, caused every one to look upon the countenance of his fellow, there
to read the words which he had no power to utter. A propeller was at that instant seen moving
athwart their bows, and from the severity of the shock, it was thought that the smaller vessel
must have sustained serious damage. Accordingly a boat was lowered from the steamer, under
command of the first officer, to render the unfortunates such assistance as was in their power,
believing their own damages to be but slight; but the boat had not been long gone, when word
was passed to their captain that they were in a sinking condition. Upon examination it was
found that a large breakage had been made, directly under their bows, and the sea was rushing
in terrifically.

All was now a scene of confusion; some applied themselves diligently to the pumps, and others
sought to diminish the leak by stretching a sail across the gap, while the passengers hurried,
some one way, and some another, as if in a state of frenzy. To seek assistance from the propeller,
even if she might not be in as disastrous a condition as themselves, was out of the question;
for both vessels being under full headway at the moment of the collision, she was now again
enveloped in fog. Oh, God! must it be thus? no escape for these three hundred beings? What
an awful moment of suspense! Still the steamer settles down; what is done must be done speedily.
The captain is without his first officer, with whom he might consult, his absence necessarily
detracting from the number of boats; but had the boats been suffered to remain unmolested,
for the benefit of the passengers, it were doubtful if they could have contained so large a
number. Where now are those gladsome little children, those aged men and women, who, listening
to those voices of childhood, would fain have believed themselves young again? Ah! where are
they? Wringing their hands in wild despair! clambering over the sides of the ship, endeavoring
to save themselves on rafts, spars, or articles affording inferior protection.

The Sea-flower,--where is she? where is her aged protector? Upon the deck of that ill-fated
steamer the Sea-flower kneels, with eyes meekly turned heavenward. She asks that peace may
be shed upon the hearts of that agonized throng; that they may fitly receive this will of divine
dispensation. Never was her countenance more serene. Just then a voice was heard at her side,--"we
are going home;" it was the voice of the noble officer, who had before noted her words.

"I was happy," replied Natalie, "when I said we are going home, but I did not realize we would
so soon meet the loved ones in that celestial home, where we shall part no more forever; and
I am happy now; yet this terrible cry of anguish incites my deep, deep sympathies."

"Thank God for this presence of an angel, to shed light over my last hour!" said the officer;
"I now go down through that dark valley of death, unattended by that gloom which had seized
upon my soul. My God, in mercy wilt thou sustain my wife and children, when they shall look
for my coming, and I shall never return to them more! and may they soon meet me there." (He
knew not that the youngling of his flock would so soon join him in singing the songs of the
redeemed.)

He said no more; they were going down; a life-preserver was in his hands, which he would have
secured about the Sea-flower, but she waved her hand to him, saying,--"Take it to yourself.
Farewell."

Supported by her grand-parent's arm, she gazed upon the waters; they were not angry. Peacefully
sighing, they met her touch, as if they would welcome her home.

The blue waves rolled on, in their untiring way, and the sun went calmly down upon this day,--the
twenty-seventh of September, eighteen hundred and fifty-four,--a day long to be remembered,
both in the Eastern and Western world, for in it was the sundering of many mortal ties. Many
a family circle wept as they looked upon the familiar places, which would know their lost ones
no more; but ah, chide me not, kind reader, in thus leading you adown to the coldness of death,
in setting before you that which causes your tender heart to shudder. Mourn not for these departed;
for would we not wish to meet them there, when, ere long, this mortal shall have put on immortality?
Grieve not because that gentle one has passed away! say not that she met with an untimely end,
when in her summer of life all was pleasantness before her. Think of her not as one gone far
away, never to be on earth more; cast her not from your heart, where, during her little day
here, in innocence she entwined herself within its recesses. Oh, no, for she is nearer to us
now; she is not dead, but has passed from death to life; and may her memory remain with us,
in freshness as the ivy green, which loves best the churchyard's place of holy quietude,--and
by her influence may we in spirit come to be more Christ-like.

CHAPTER XII.

ALONE. 

  Shappen is evidently, therefore, derived from ceap
     (and possibly pund) as a place in which bargains
   were struck, and the name testifies to
     the extreme antiquity of the New Forest pony and cattle fair formerly
held there.

        

There are several notable horse fairs still held near Evesham. Besides the one at Pershore,
already mentioned, the most important fairs are held at Stow-on-the-Wold and Shipston-on-Stour,
both very out-of-the-way places; and many stories of the wiles of horse-copers were related
in connection therewith. I remember the following told as occurring at Stow-on-the-Wold. A man
approached a simple-looking young farmer, and getting into conversation with him, pointed out
a horse not far off, telling him that he had quarrelled with the owner who refused in consequence
to sell him the horse which he wished to buy. He promised the farmer£ 2 if he would undertake
the negotiation, and could buy the horse for£ 10. The farmer agreed, and after some apparent difficulty
succeeded in effecting the purchase at the sum named, paid the money and returned with the horse
to the place where he had left his acquaintance.

The latter, however, had disappeared, and after searching the fair from one end to the other,
the farmer took back the horse, to repudiate the bargain. The owner had also vanished, and the
farmer found himself with an ancient screw, which eventually he was glad to get rid of at a pound
a leg, losing£ 6 on the deal.

There are small pig-dealers, in almost every village, on the lookout for bargains, and very cute
men they generally are. One of these well-known at Aldington, though nearly blind, could tell
the points and value of any pig in a marvellous way almost by intuition; it was said of him
that, "though blind, he was a better judge of a pig than most folks
with their eyes open."

At
farm and other auction sales there are always anxious buyers who make a practice of trying to
depreciate ("crabbing," as it is called) any article or property
they particularly wish to purchase, by making damaging statements
or insinuations to anybody whom, they fear, is also a probable buyer.
At a sale of cottage property adjoining a public-house, in a village
not far from Aldington, a keen purchaser remarked that there was no
water on the premises. He would fain go to her, as she smiles upon him, as was ever her wont, but
a voice he hears, saying, "not yet," and the bright one recedes from his view.

Reader, you may visit Nantucket's sea-girt isle, you may walk those peaceful shores where she
loved to roam; you may meet there that lone man on the shore; you will approach him with feelings
of deep regard, not unlike reverence; but do not hesitate to inquire of him for the grave of
the Sea-flower. With eyes fixed upon the ocean's blue, pointing with his finger heavenward,
he will direct you to a grassy mound, at whose head is a weeping willow, upon the broad trunk
of which is wrought in letters of pearl,--"The Sea-flower awaits for thee." With a tear you
turn away, with the resolve in your heart that you will henceforth so live, as that when this
mortal life is ended, you may "attain everlasting joy and felicity, through Jesus Christ, our
Lord."

You will seek the fireside of the widow Grosvenor, where from a mother's lips, you will be
assured of the blessings which accompany a dutiful child. That fireside is not desolate, for
the members of the household have been led to say,--"Thy will, O Lord, not mine, be done." Wherever
possible, I suppose, most houses are built to face the south, and the breakfast-room would
be generally on that side, so that by 9 o'clock, old time, the sun had warmed the room, but
at 9 o'clock, new time, the sun has scarcely looked in at the window; a fire is probably lighted
and to save trouble kept up all day. If the new arrangement is continued, and I understand that
it was tried more than 100 years ago and abandoned as a mistake, it would be much better to
begin it at least a month later. Do you not mistrust? who other than Miss Winnie Santon?
she who having tired of the gallants of the wild West, or rather of their numbers, came to
the wise conclusion that a city life was designed for such as she; she the coquettish heiress,
who once stood very much in doubt as to the state of civilization among these "poor fishermen."

Yes, it is our Winnie, and she is now the wife of Capt. Harry Grosvenor. And is she happy in
this her choice? Ask her if she would exchange her brave husband for one of those superfine
niceties, who suing for favor at her feet, had at the same time lined their vows of love and
constancy with the yellow dust, which had they known the strong chest to have been at their
backs, while in this humble posture, it were uncertain to which might have been made an apology,--the
fair lady or her dowry.

But what is the cause of that little commotion among sundry flowered blankets, juvenile counterpanes,
etc., etc., which you have but this moment discovered in a neighboring niche? Is it old Nep
who has ensconced himself in this dainty little nest? No, for you left him sleeping under the
shade of the weeping willow. Surely, those seven kits, with fourteen blue eyes, have not lived
to this green old age! Ah, the mystery is solved, by the presence of a tiny hand, which elevates
itself above the little heap of whiteness, and a smiling baby face has contrived to work its
way into the no less smiling sunlight, the which baby must not partake of too freely; consequently
the owner of said property appears, to alleviate the difficulty, which is done by giving miss
baby a toss into mid-air, and with a ringing laugh, not unlike those wild bursts of merriment
which were wont to be heard reverberating through the halls of Santon Mansion.

Yes, it is Winnie's child; and she tells you, while a more thoughtful look sits upon her countenance,
that the name of the little one is "Natalie;" although she adds, "as earnestly as I love my
child, I know there can never be another like her"--and pointing to a portrait, draped in white,
she presses her child more closely to her heart.

You look long and earnestly upon that countenance of the Madonna,--the one face representing
mother and child. The portrait is the property of Clarence Delwood, he who is now known as
'the lone man of the shore;' and while you are yet gazing upon it, he enters, and pressing
his lips to the canvas, he takes a bible from the case and reads. You accidentally observe
the fly-leaf, upon which is written,--"To the Sea-flower, from her mother, on her second birthday;"
and as he reads a smile lights up his countenance, for it is there written,--"thou shalt labor
unto the Lord," and a more cheerful expression is his; for it is through his ready pen that
the alms chest of the poor receives its liberal supplies.

Ere you depart, you inquire as to the fate of Mr. Sampson, learning that through his agency
the widow Grosvenor has come in possession of a handsome fortune,--the daughter's gift to her
mother,--so that now she is enabled to make comfortable many a cheerless fireside, where poverty,
through the loss of a husband and father, as he went down to do business on the great deep,
had reigned. Honest Mr. Sampson, after so many years spent upon the ocean, has concluded to
live the remainder of his days on shore; and in the darkest night, when the hurricane roars,
and the waves break high, the brilliant light entrusted to his care, may be seen for many miles
around, by the voyager who may be sailing in the neighborhood of old Nantucket. Just look at
this holly-leafed baby vine, with every point cut like a prickle, yet much too tender and good
to prick me. It follows every motion of my hand; it crisps its little veinings up whenever
I come near it; and it feels in every fibre that I am looking at
it.'"

But there is one, who is no unimportant member of this happy family, for whom you have forgotten
to inquire, so intent are you, as you pass out from them into the silent night, upon what you
have seen and heard; but you are minded of this negligence by a voice near, and a negro, tottering
from beneath the weight of years, whom you recognize at once as old Vingo, stands before you.
His mind is much impaired, for he has attained his second childhood; yet from his disconnected
remarks, it is evident that he still retains a pleasant remembrance of the past.

"Old Bingo neber want noting more," he replies to your question of what you can do for him;
"nobody neber can do noting more for Bingo; for Missy Sea-flower hab gib Bingo, Phillis, and
gib him Heaben, and what more does he want?"

"And where is your mistress's home?" you ask.

"Dar," said the negro, pointing to the skies, "dar is Heaben, dar am my missus's home; and
dat is whar she tell me dat she wait for me if she go home first. If it hadn't been missy dat
tole me, I couldn't beliebe dat such an ole brack fellow like me, go to dat white place; but
I beliebes it now, for since missy gone home I's seen a new star up dar; and I knows it am
her, for didn't she say she look down to me, jus' like ole Massa Grobener and dat poor brack
Injin look down upon her! Yes, I know dat I shall meet her dar, and what am better, Phillis
am going dar too! only sometimes she get skeered like, when she remember what her ole cotton
massa tell her; for he tells her dat de hounds go to dat bright place, afore good for notin'
niggar like her get dar; and she's afeared dey remember dar ole habits and hunt her up, for
she run away from her ole massa, and gets sabed in dese free states, whar de folks don't mistake
poor niggar for someting else dan a man."

"Farewell, faithful Vingo, and may the remainder of your days shed peace along your way. When
the work was complete the farmer expressed the great satisfaction of his wife and himself with the
addition, and the landlord was anxious to see the new room. Every time he suggested a day, the
farmer objected that it would be inconvenient to his wife, or that he himself would be away from
home. Time went on, and the landlord, finding it impossible to arrange a day that was not objected
to, made a surprise visit, when shooting over the farm.

The blue waves have not yet tired of their unceasing sports; they still chase each other in
mad glee from far over the sea, each striving to outdo his fellows, as they come tumbling in
with deep-toned voices. In 1917 some nettles here were black with the larvæ of this species, but I think
they must have been nearly all visited by the ichneumons, which pierce the skin, laying their
eggs in the living body of the larva, as the butterflies were not
specially common later.
I have found a gem among the sea-weeds."

Gentle reader, you are weary, and I will here seek to bid you adieu, with many thanks for your
kind attention; and great is my joy, if haply any have been impressed in spirit with that meek
and holy submission which shall lead them to say,--"Thy will, O Lord, not mine, be done;" and
when loved ones shall be borne away from us, may we take up our cross with renewed love for
Him who gave, and hath taken away,--and say, "blessed be the name of the Lord," forever.

