The moment had at last arrived which Richelieu had long waited for with impatience.  Nothing,
he was aware, but the impossibility of saving themselves by any other means, could induce the
Protestant States in Germany to support the pretensions of France upon Alsace.  This extreme
necessity had now arrived; the assistance of that power was indispensable, and she was resolved
to be well paid for the active part which she was about to take in the German war.  Full of
lustre and dignity, it now came upon the political stage.  Oxenstiern, who felt little reluctance
in bestowing the rights and possessions of the empire, had already ceded the fortress of Philipsburg,
and the other long coveted places.  The Protestants of Upper Germany now, in their own names,
sent a special embassy to Richelieu, requesting him to take Alsace, the fortress of Breyssach,
which was still to be recovered from the enemy, and all the places upon the Upper Rhine, which
were the keys of Germany, under the protection of France.  What was implied by French protection
had been seen in the conduct of France towards the bishoprics of Metz, Toul, and Verdun, which
it had held for centuries against the rightful owners.  Treves was already in the possession
of French garrisons; Lorraine was in a manner conquered, as it might at any time be overrun
by an army, and could not, alone, and with its own strength, withstand its formidable neighbour.
France now entertained the hope of adding Alsace to its large and numerous possessions, and,--since
a treaty was soon to be concluded with the Dutch for the partition of the Spanish Netherlands--the
prospect of making the Rhine its natural boundary towards Germany.  Thus shamefully were the
rights of Germany sacrificed by the German States to this treacherous and grasping power, which,
under the mask of a disinterested friendship, aimed only at its own aggrandizement; and while
it boldly claimed the honourable title of a Protectress, was solely occupied with promoting
its own schemes, and advancing its own interests amid the general confusion.

In return for these important cessions, France engaged to effect a diversion in favour of the
Swedes, by commencing hostilities against the Spaniards; and if this should lead to an open
breach with the Emperor, to maintain an army upon the German side of the Rhine, which was to
act in conjunction with the Swedes and Germans against Austria.  For a war with Spain, the
Spaniards themselves soon afforded the desired pretext. Making an inroad from the Netherlands,
upon the city of Treves, they cut in pieces the French garrison; and, in open violation of
the law of nations, made prisoner the Elector, who had placed himself under the protection
of France, and carried him into Flanders.  When the Cardinal Infante, as Viceroy of the Spanish
Netherlands, refused satisfaction for these injuries, and delayed to restore the prince to
liberty, Richelieu, after the old custom, formally proclaimed war at Brussels by a herald,
and the war was at once opened by three different armies in Milan, in the Valteline, and in
Flanders.  The French minister was less anxious to commence hostilities with the Emperor, which
promised fewer advantages, and threatened greater difficulties.  A fourth army, however, was
detached across the Rhine into Germany, under the command of Cardinal Lavalette, which was
to act in conjunction with Duke Bernard, against the Emperor, without a previous declaration
of war.

A heavier blow for the Swedes, than even the defeat of Nordlingen, was the reconciliation of
the Elector of Saxony with the Emperor.  After many fruitless attempts both to bring about
and to prevent it, it was at last effected in 1634, at Pirna, and, the following year, reduced
into a formal treaty of peace, at Prague.  The Elector of Saxony had always viewed with jealousy
the pretensions of the Swedes in Germany; and his aversion to this foreign power, which now
gave laws within the Empire, had grown with every fresh requisition that Oxenstiern was obliged
to make upon the German states.  This ill feeling was kept alive by the Spanish court, who
laboured earnestly to effect a peace between Saxony and the Emperor.  Wearied with the calamities
of a long and destructive contest, which had selected Saxony above all others for its theatre;
grieved by the miseries which both friend and foe inflicted upon his subjects, and seduced
by the tempting propositions of the House of Austria, the Elector at last abandoned the common
cause, and, caring little for the fate of his confederates, or the liberties of Germany, thought
only of securing his own advantages, even at the expense of the whole body.

In fact, the misery of Germany had risen to such a height, that all clamorously vociferated
for peace; and even the most disadvantageous pacification would have been hailed as a blessing
from heaven.  The plains, which formerly had been thronged with a happy and industrious population,
where nature had lavished her choicest gifts, and plenty and prosperity had reigned, were now
a wild and desolate wilderness.  The fields, abandoned by the industrious husbandman, lay waste
and uncultivated; and no sooner had the young crops given the promise of a smiling harvest,
than a single march destroyed the labours of a year, and blasted the last hope of an afflicted
peasantry.  Burnt castles, wasted fields, villages in ashes, were to be seen extending far
and wide on all sides, while the ruined peasantry had no resource left but to swell the horde
of incendiaries, and fearfully to retaliate upon their fellows, who had hitherto been spared
the miseries which they themselves had suffered.  The only safeguard against oppression was
to become an oppressor.  The towns groaned under the licentiousness of undisciplined and plundering
garrisons, who seized and wasted the property of the citizens, and, under the license of their
position, committed the most remorseless devastation and cruelty.  If the march of an army
converted whole provinces into deserts, if others were impoverished by winter quarters, or
exhausted by contributions, these still were but passing evils, and the industry of a year
might efface the miseries of a few months.  But there was no relief for those who had a garrison
within their walls, or in the neighbourhood; even the change of fortune could not improve their
unfortunate fate, since the victor trod in the steps of the vanquished, and friends were not
more merciful than enemies.  The neglected farms, the destruction of the crops, and the numerous
armies which overran the exhausted country, were inevitably followed by scarcity and the high
price of provisions, which in the later years was still further increased by a general failure
in the crops.  The crowding together of men in camps and quarters--want upon one side, and
excess on the other, occasioned contagious distempers, which were more fatal than even the
sword.  In this long and general confusion, all the bonds of social life were broken up;--respect
for the rights of their fellow men, the fear of the laws, purity of morals, honour, and religion,
were laid aside, where might ruled supreme with iron sceptre.  Under the shelter of anarchy
and impunity, every vice flourished, and men became as wild as the country.  No station was
too dignified for outrage, no property too holy for rapine and avarice.  In a word, the soldier
reigned supreme; and that most brutal of despots often made his own officer feel his power.
The leader of an army was a far more important person within any country where he appeared,
than its lawful governor, who was frequently obliged to fly before him into his own castles
for safety.  Germany swarmed with these petty tyrants, and the country suffered equally from
its enemies and its protectors.  These wounds rankled the deeper, when the unhappy victims
recollected that Germany was sacrificed to the ambition of foreign powers, who, for their own
ends, prolonged the miseries of war.  Germany bled under the scourge, to extend the conquests
and influence of Sweden; and the torch of discord was kept alive within the Empire, that the
services of Richelieu might be rendered indispensable in France.

But, in truth, it was not merely interested voices which opposed a peace; and if both Sweden
and the German states were anxious, from corrupt motives, to prolong the conflict, they were
seconded in their views by sound policy.  After the defeat of Nordlingen, an equitable peace
was not to be expected from the Emperor; and, this being the case, was it not too great a sacrifice,
after seventeen years of war, with all its miseries, to abandon the contest, not only without
advantage, but even with loss?  What would avail so much bloodshed, if all was to remain as
it had been; if their rights and pretensions were neither larger nor safer; if all that had
been won with so much difficulty was to be surrendered for a peace at any cost? Would it not
be better to endure, for two or three years more, the burdens they had borne so long, and to
reap at last some recompense for twenty years of suffering? Neither was it doubtful, that peace
might at last be obtained on favourable terms, if only the Swedes and the German Protestants
should continue united in the cabinet and in the field, and pursued their common interests
with a reciprocal sympathy and zeal.  Their divisions alone, had rendered the enemy formidable,
and protracted the acquisition of a lasting and general peace.  And this great evil the Elector
of Saxony had brought upon the Protestant cause by concluding a separate treaty with Austria.

He, indeed, had commenced his negociations with the Emperor, even before the battle of Nordlingen;
and the unfortunate issue of that battle only accelerated their conclusion.  By it, all his
confidence in the Swedes was lost; and it was even doubted whether they would ever recover
from the blow.  The jealousies among their generals, the insubordination of the army, and the
exhaustion of the Swedish kingdom, shut out any reasonable prospect of effective assistance
on their part.  The Elector hastened, therefore, to profit by the Emperor's magnanimity, who,
even after the battle of Nordlingen, did not recall the conditions previously offered.  While
Oxenstiern, who had assembled the estates in Frankfort, made further demands upon them and
him, the Emperor, on the contrary, made concessions; and therefore it required no long consideration
to decide between them.

In the mean time, however, he was anxious to escape the charge of sacrificing the common cause
and attending only to his own interests. All the German states, and even the Swedes, were publicly
invited to become parties to this peace, although Saxony and the Emperor were the only powers
who deliberated upon it, and who assumed the right to give law to Germany.  By this self-appointed
tribunal, the grievances of the Protestants were discussed, their rights and privileges decided,
and even the fate of religions determined, without the presence of those who were most deeply
interested in it.  Between them, a general peace was resolved on, and it was to be enforced
by an imperial army of execution, as a formal decree of the Empire.  Whoever opposed it, was
to be treated as a public enemy; and thus, contrary to their rights, the states were to be
compelled to acknowledge a law, in the passing of which they had no share.  Thus, even in form,
the pacification at Prague was an arbitrary measure; nor was it less so in its contents.  The
Edict of Restitution had been the chief cause of dispute between the Elector and the Emperor;
and therefore it was first considered in their deliberations.  Without formally annulling it,
it was determined by the treaty of Prague, that all the ecclesiastical domains holding immediately
of the Empire, and, among the mediate ones, those which had been seized by the Protestants
subsequently to the treaty at Passau, should, for forty years, remain in the same position
as they had been in before the Edict of Restitution, but without any formal decision of the
diet to that effect.  Before the expiration of this term a commission, composed of equal numbers
of both religions, should proceed to settle the matter peaceably and according to law; and
if this commission should be unable to come to a decision, each party should remain in possession
of the rights which it had exercised before the Edict of Restitution. This arrangement, therefore,
far from removing the grounds of dissension, only suspended the dispute for a time; and this
article of the treaty of Prague only covered the embers of a future war.

The archbishopric of Magdeburg remained in possession of Prince Augustus of Saxony, and Halberstadt
in that of the Archduke Leopold William. Four estates were taken from the territory of Magdeburg,
and given to Saxony, for which the Administrator of Magdeburg, Christian William of Brandenburg,
was otherwise to be indemnified.  The Dukes of Mecklenburg, upon acceding to this treaty, were
to be acknowledged as rightful possessors of their territories, in which the magnanimity of
Gustavus Adolphus had long ago reinstated them.  Donauwerth recovered its liberties.  The important
claims of the heirs of the Palatine, however important it might be for the Protestant cause
not to lose this electorate vote in the diet, were passed over in consequence of the animosity
subsisting between the Lutherans and the Calvinists.  All the conquests which, in the course
of the war, had been made by the German states, or by the League and the Emperor, were to be
mutually restored; all which had been appropriated by the foreign powers of France and Sweden,
was to be forcibly wrested from them by the united powers.  The troops of the contracting parties
were to be formed into one imperial army, which, supported and paid by the Empire, was, by
force of arms, to carry into execution the covenants of the treaty.

As the peace of Prague was intended to serve as a general law of the Empire, those points,
which did not immediately affect the latter, formed the subject of a separate treaty.  By it,
Lusatia was ceded to the Elector of Saxony as a fief of Bohemia, and special articles guaranteed
the freedom of religion of this country and of Silesia.

