The first big battle of the first Hundred Years War was fought in 1340 between the French and
English fleets at Sluys, a little seaport up a river in the western corner of what is Holland
now.  King Philip of France had brought together all the ships he could, not only French ones
but Flemish, with hired war galleys and their soldiers and slave oarsmen from Genoa and elsewhere.
But, instead of using this fleet to attack the English, and so clear the way for an invasion
of England, he let it lie alongside the mudbanks of Sluys.  Edward III, the future victor of
Cressy, Poitiers, and Winchelsea, did not take long to seize so good a chance.  The French
fleet was placed as if on purpose to ensure its own defeat; for it lay at anchor in three divisions,
each division with all the vessels lashed together, and the whole three in one line with a
flank to the sea.  The English officers who had landed to look at it saw at once that if this
flank was properly attacked it could be smashed in on the next bit of the line, and that on
the next, and so on, before the remaining bits could come to the rescue.  On the turn of the
tide Edward swooped down with his best ships, knocked this flank to pieces, and then went on
till two divisions had been rolled up in complete confusion.  Then the ebb-tide set out to
sea; and the Genoese of the third division mostly got away.

Ten years later (1350) the English for the first time fought a Spanish fleet and won a battle
sometimes called Winchelsea and sometimes Espagnols-sur-mer or Spaniards-on-the-sea.  Edward
III had sworn vengeance against the Basque traders from the coast of Spain who had plundered
the English vessels coming in from France.  So he made ready to attack the Spanish Basques
sailing home from Antwerp, where they had hired Flemings and others to join the fray.  This
time each fleet was eager to attack the other; and a battle royal followed.  On the fine afternoon
of the 28th of August King Edward sat on the deck of his flagship listening to Sir John Chandos,
who was singing while the minstrels played.  Beside him stood his eldest son, the famous Black
Prince, then twenty years of age, and his youngest son, John of Gaunt, then only ten.  Suddenly
the lookout called down from the tops: "Sire, I see one, two, three, four--I see so many, so
help me God, I cannot count them."  Then the King called for his helmet and for wine, with
which he and his knights drank to each others' health and to their joint success in the coming
battle.  Queen Philippa and her ladies meanwhile went into Winchelsea Abbey to pray for victory,
now and then stealing out to see how their fleet was getting on.

The Spaniards made a brave show.  Their fighting tops (like little bowl-shaped forts high up
the masts) glinted with armed men.  Their soldiers stood in gleaming armour on the decks. 
Long narrow flags gay with coloured crests fluttered in the breeze.  The English, too, made
a brave show of flags and armoured men.  They had a few more vessels than the Spaniards, but
of a rather smaller kind, so the two fleets were nearly even.  The King steered for the Spaniards;
though not so as to meet them end-for-end but at an angle.  The two flagships met with a terrific
crash; and the crowded main-top of the Spaniard, snapping from off the mast, went splash into
the sea, carrying its little garrison down with all their warlike gear.  The charging ships
rebounded for a moment, and then ground against each others' sides, wrecked each others' rigging,
and began the fight with showers of arrows, battering stones from aloft, and wildfire flying
to and fro.  The Spanish flagship was the bigger of the two, more stoutly built, and with more
way on when they met; so she forged ahead a good deal damaged, while the King's ship wallowed
after, leaking like a sieve.  The tremendous shock of the collision had opened every seam in
her hull and she began to sink.  The King still wanted to follow the Spanish flagship; but
his sailors, knowing this was now impossible, said: "No, Sire, your Majesty can not catch her;
but we can catch another."  With that they laid aboard the next one, which the king took just
in time, for his own ship sank a moment after.

The Black Prince had the same good luck, just clearing the enemy's deck before his own ship
sank.  Strange to say, the same thing happened to Robert of Namur, a Flemish friend of Edward's,
whose vessel, grappled by a bigger enemy, was sinking under him as the two were drifting side
by side, when Hanekin, an officer of Robert's, climbed into the Spanish vessel by some entangled
rigging and cut the ropes which held the Spanish sails.  Down came the sails with a run, flopping
about the Spaniards' heads; and before the confusion could be put right Robert was over the
side with his men-at-arms, cutting down every Spaniard who struggled out of the mess.  The
Basques and Spaniards fought most bravely.  But the chief reason why they were beaten hand-to-hand
was because the English archers, trained to shooting from their boyhood up, had killed and
wounded so many of them before the vessels closed.

The English won a great victory.  But it was by no means complete, partly because the Spanish
fleet was too strong to be finished off, and partly because the English and their Flemish friends
wanted to get home with their booty.  Time out of mind, and for at least three centuries to
come, fleets were mostly made up of vessels only brought together for each battle or campaign;
and even the King's vessels were expected to make what they could out of loot.

With the sea roads open to the English and mostly closed to the French and Scots the English
armies did as well on land as the navy did at sea.  Four years before this first great battle
with the Spaniards the English armies had won from the French at Cressy and from the Scots
at Neville's Cross.  Six years after the Spanish fight they won from the French again at Poitiers.
But in 1374 Edward III, worn out by trying to hold his lands in France, had been forced to
neglect his navy; while Jean de Vienne, founder of the regular French Navy, was building first-class
men-of-war at Rouen, where, five hundred years later, a British base was formed to supply the
British army during the Great War.

With Shakespeare's kingly hero, Henry V, the fortunes of the English armies in France revived.
In 1415 he won a great battle at Agincourt, a place, like Cressy, within a day's march of his
ships in the Channel. Harfleur, at the mouth of the Seine, had been Henry's base for the Agincourt
campaign.  So the French were very keen to get it back, while the English were equally keen
to keep it.  Henry sent over a great fleet under the Duke of Bedford.  The French, though their
fleet was the smaller of the two, attacked with the utmost gallantry, but were beaten back
with great loss.  Their Genoese hirelings fought well at the beginning, but made off towards
the end.  In 1417 Henry himself was back in France with his army.  But he knew what sea-power
meant, and how foolish it was to land without making sure that the seaways were quite safe
behind him.  So he first sent a fleet to make sure, and then he crossed his army, which now
had a safe "line of communication," through its base in France, with its great home base in
England.

Henry V was not, of course, the only man in England who then understood sea-power.  For in
1416, exactly five hundred years before Jellicoe's victory of Jutland, Henry's Parliament passed
a resolution in which you still can read these words: "that the Navy is the chief support of
the wealth, the business, and the whole prosperity of England."  Some years later Hungerford,
one of Henry's admirals, wrote a Book of English Policy, "exhorting all England to keep the
sea" and explaining what Edward III had meant by stamping a ship on the gold coins called nobles:
"Four things our noble showeth unto me: King, ship, and sword, and power of the sea."  These
are themselves but repetitions of Offa's good advice, given more than six centuries earlier:
"He who would be safe on land must be supreme at sea."  And all show the same kind of first-rate
sea-sense that is shown by the "Articles of War" which are still read out to every crew in
the Navy.  The Preamble or preface to these Articles really comes to this: "It is upon the
Navy that, under the providence of God, the wealth, prosperity, and peace of the British Empire
chiefly depend."

Between the death of Henry V in 1422 and the accession of Henry VII in 1485 there was a dreary
time on land and sea.  The King of England lost the last of his possessions in the land of
France.  Only the Channel Islands remained British, as they do still.  At home the Normans
had settled down with the descendants of the other Norsemen to form one people, the Anglo-Norman
people of today, the leading race within the British Empire and, to a less extent, within the
United States.  But England was torn in two by the Wars of the Roses, in which the great lords
and their followers fought about the succession to the throne, each party wanting to have a
king of its own choice.  For the most part, however, the towns and seaports kept out of these
selfish party wars and attended to their growing business instead.  And when Henry VII united
both the warring parties, and these with the rest of England, he helped to lay the sure foundations
of the future British Empire.

CHAPTER VII

KING OF THE ENGLISH SEA

(1545)

England needed good pilots to take the ship of state safely through the troubled waters of
the wonderful sixteenth century, and she found them in the three great Royal Tudors: Henry
VII (1485-1509), Henry VIII (1509-1547), and Queen Elizabeth (1558-1603).  All three fostered
English sea-power, both for trade and war, and helped to start the modern Royal Navy on a career
of world-wide victory such as no other fighting service has ever equalled, not even the Roman
Army in the palmy days of Rome.  It was a happy thought that gave the name of Queen Elizabeth
to the flagship on board of which the British Commander-in-chief received the surrender of
the German Fleet.  Ten generations had passed away between this surrender in 1918 and the defeat
of the Spanish Armada in 1588.  But the British Royal Navy was still the same: in sea-sense,
spirit, training, and surpassing skill.

Henry VII was himself an oversea trader, and a very good one too.  He built ships and let them
out to traders at a handsome profit for himself besides trading with them on his own account.
But he was never so foolish as to think that peaceful trade could go on without a fighting
navy to protect it.  So he built men-of-war; though he used these for trade as well.  Men-of-war
built specially for fighting were of course much better in a battle than any mere merchantman
could be. But in those days, and for some time after, merchantmen went about well armed and
often joined the king's ships of the Royal Navy during war, as many of them did against the
Germans in our own day.

English oversea trade was carried on with the whole of Europe, with Asia Minor, and with the
North of Africa.  Canyng, a merchant prince of Bristol, employed a hundred shipwrights and
eight hundred seamen.  He sent his ships to Iceland, the Baltic, and all through the Mediterranean.
But the London merchants were more important still; and the king was the most important man
of all.  He had his watchful eye on the fishing fleet of Iceland, which was then as important
as the fleet of Newfoundland became later on.  He watched the Baltic trade in timber and the
Flanders trade in wool.  He watched the Hansa Towns of northern Germany, then second only to
Venice itself as the greatest trading centre of the world.  And he had his English consuls
in Italy as early as 1485, the first year of his reign.

One day Columbus sent his brother to see if the king would help him to find the New World.
But Henry VII was a man who looked long and cautiously before he leaped; and even then he only
leaped when he saw where he would land.  So Columbus went to Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain,
who sent him out to discover America in 1492, the same year that they conquered the last Eastern
possession in Western Europe, the Moorish Kingdom of Grenada, which thenceforth became a province
of Spain.  Five years later Henry sent John Cabot out from Bristol in the little Matthew with
only eighteen men "to sayle to all Partes, Countreys, and Seas, of the East, of the West, and
of the North; to seeke out, discover, and finde, whatsoever Iles, Countreyes, Regions, or Provinces,
of the Heathennes and Infidelles" and "to set up Our banners and Ensigns in every village,
towne, castel, yle, or maine lande, of them newly found."  Cabot discovered Canada by reaching
Cape Breton in 1497, three years before Columbus himself saw any part of the mainland.  But
as he found nobody there, not even "Heathenries and Infidelles," much less "villages, castels,
and townes," as he lost money by his venture and could not pay the king the promised "royalty"
of twenty per cent., we need not laugh too loudly over what the king gave him: "To Hym that
founde the new Isle--10 pounds," which was worth more than a thousand dollars would be now.
Cabot went again and his son Sebastian after him; but there was no money to be made in this
venture.  True, Sebastian said the fish off Newfoundland were so thick that he could hardly
force his vessels through the water.  But fish stories and travellers' tales were as hard to
believe then as now; and the English thought America was worth very little after all.  Indeed,
the general opinion in Europe was that America was more of a nuisance than anything else, because
it seemed to block the way to the Golden East.  Once people were persuaded that the world was
round they wanted to find a short cut to Cathay, the land of fabled wealth in silks and spices,
gold and jewels; and they expected to find it by sailing due West till they reached the Far
East.  So, finding instead that America had no such riches on its own shores and that these
shores spoilt the short cut to Cathay, and knowing that fish were plentiful in Europe, most
people never bothered their heads about America for another fifty years.

We shall soon see what wonderful changes took place when the Old World at last discovered the
riches of the New, and all the European sea-powers began fighting for the best places they
could find there.

When Henry VIII came to the throne in 1509 his first thought was for the "Broade Ditch," as
he called the English Channel.  In 1546, only a little before he died, he appointed a Navy
Board, which answered its purpose so well that it looked after the pay, food, stores, docks,
and ships of the Royal Navy for nearly three hundred years; and then became part of the Admiralty,
which now does everything for the Navy that can be done from the land.  In one word, this Board
took care of everything except the fighting part of the Navy's work.  That part was under the
Lord High Admiral or a body of men appointed to act for him.  This body still exists; and the
old Board of Henry VIII works with it under different names.  One branch of the Admiralty,
as the whole management is now called, supplies the other with the means to fight.  This other
orders everything connected with the fighting fleets.  The fighting fleets themselves are then
left to do the best they can.

Henry never forgot for a moment that England could not live a day if she was not a mighty sea-power.
He improved the dockyards founded by his father at Deptford and Portsmouth.  He founded Trinity
House, which still examines pilots and looks after the lights and buoys all round the British
Isles.  He put down pirates with a strong hand.  And he brought the best ship-builders he could
get from Italy, where the scientific part of shipbuilding and navigation was then the best
in the world, because the trade routes of Asia, Africa, and Europe mostly met at Venice.  But
he always kept his eyes open for good men at home; and in one of his own shipbuilders, Fletcher
of Rye, he found a man who did more than anybody else to make the vastly important change from
the ancient age of rowing fleets to the modern age of sailing ones.

From the time when the first bit of a wild beast's skin was hoisted by some pre-historic savage,
thousands and thousands of years ago, nobody had learnt how to tack, that is, to sail against
the wind.  The only way any ship could go at all well was with the wind, that is, with the
wind blowing from behind.  So long as men had nothing but a single "wind-bag" of skin or cloth
the best wind was a "lubber's wind," that is, a wind from straight behind.  When more and better
sails were used a lubber's wind was not the best because one sail would stop the wind from
reaching another one in front of it.  The best wind then, as ever since, was a "quartering
wind," that is, a wind blowing on a vessel's quarter, half way between her stern and the middle
of her side.  Ships with better keels, sails, and shape of hull might have sailed with a "soldier's
wind," that is, a wind blowing straight against the ship's side, at right angles to her course.
But they must have "made leeway" by going sideways too.  This wind on the beam was called a
soldier's wind because it made equally plain sailing out and back again, and so did not bother
landsmen with a lot of words and things they could not understand when ships tacked against
head winds.

Who first "tacked ship" is more than we can say.  But many generations of seamen must have
wished they knew how to sail towards a place from which the wind was blowing.  Tacking probably
came bit by bit, like other new inventions.  But Fletcher of Rye, whom Henry always encouraged,
seems to have been the first man who really learnt how to sail against the wind.  He did this
by tacking (that is, zigzagging) against it with sails trimmed fore and aft.  In this way the
sails, as it were, slide against the wind at an angle and move the ship ahead, first to one
side of the straight line towards the place she wants to reach, and then, after turning her
head, to the other.  It was in 1539 that Fletcher made his trial trip, to the great amazement
of the shipping in the Channel.  Thus by 1545, that year of naval changes, the new sailing
age had certainly begun to live and the old rowing age had certainly begun to die.  The invention
of tacking made almost as great a change as steam made three hundred years later; for it shortened
voyages from months to weeks, as steam afterwards shortened them from weeks to days.  Why did
Jacques Cartier take months to make voyages from Europe and up the St. Lawrence when Champlain
made them in weeks? Because Champlain could tack and Jacques Cartier could not.  Columbus,
Cabot, and Cartier could no more zigzag towards a place from which the wind was blowing dead
against them than could the ships of Hiram, King of Tyre, who brought so many goods by sea
for Solomon.  But Champlain, who lived a century later, did know how to tack the Don de Dieu
against the prevailing south-west winds of the St. Lawrence; and this was one reason why he
made a voyage from the Seine to the Saguenay in only eighteen days, a voyage that remained
the Canadian record for ninety years to come.

The year 1545 is coupled with the title "King of the English Sea" because the fleet which Henry
VIII then had at Portsmouth was the first fleet in the world that showed any promise of being
"fit to go foreign" and fight a battle out at sea with broadside guns and under sail.

True, it had some rowing galleys, like those of other old-fashioned fleets; and its sailing
men-of-war were nothing much to boast of in the way of handiness or even safety.  The Mary
Rose, which Henry's admiral, Sir Edward Howard, had described thirty years before as "the flower
of all the ships that ever sailed," was built with lower portholes only sixteen inches above
the water line.  So when her crew forgot to close these ports, and she listed over while going
about (that is, while making a turn to bring the wind on the other side), the water rushed
in and heeled her over still more.  Then the guns on her upper side, which had not been lashed,
slid across her steeply sloping decks bang into those on the lower side, whereupon the whole
lot crashed through the ports or stove her side, so that she filled and sank with nearly everyone
on board.

No, the Royal Navy of 1545 was very far from being perfect either in ships or men.  But it
had made a beginning towards fighting with broadsides under sail; and this momentous change
was soon to be so well developed under Drake as to put English sea-power a century ahead of
all its rivals in the race for oversea dominion both in the Old World and the New.  A rowing
galley, with its platform crowded by soldiers waiting to board had no chance against a sailing
ship which could fire all the guns of her broadsides at a safe distance.  Nor had the other
foreign men-of-war a much better chance, because they too were crowded with soldiers, carried
only a few light guns, and were far less handy than the English vessels under sail.  They were,
in fact, nothing very much better than armed transports full of soldiers, who were dangerous
enough when boarding took place, but who were mere targets for the English guns when kept at
arm's length.

The actual Portsmouth campaign of 1545 was more like a sham battle than a real one; though
the French fleet came right over to England and no one can doubt French bravery.  Perhaps the
best explanation is the one given by Blaise de Montluc, one of the French admirals: "Our business
is rather on the land than on the water, where I do not know of any great battles that we have
ever won."  Henry VIII had seized Boulogne the year before, on which Francis I (Jacques Cartier's
king) swore he would clear the Channel of the English, who also held Calais.  He raised a very
big fleet, partly by hiring Italian galleys, and sent it over to the Isle of Wight.  There
it advanced and retired through the summer, never risking a pitched battle with the English,
who, truth to tell, did not themselves show much more enterprise.

Sickness raged in both fleets.  Neither wished to risk its all on a single chance unless that
chance was a very tempting one.  The French fleet was a good deal the bigger of the two; and
Lisle, the English commander-in-chief, was too cautious to attack it while it remained in one
body.  When the French were raiding the coast Lisle's hopes ran high.  "If we chance to meet
with them," he wrote, "divided as they should seem to be, we shall have some sport with them."
But the French kept together and at last retired in good order.  That was the queer end of
the last war between those two mighty monarchs, Francis I and Henry VIII.  But both kings were
then nearing death; both were very short of money; and both they and their people were anxious
for peace. Thus ended the Navy's part of 1545.

But three other events of this same year, all connected with English
sea-power, remain to be noted down.  First, Drake, the hero of the
coming Spanish War, was born at Crowndale, by Tavistock, in Devon.
Secondly, the mines of Potosi in South America suddenly roused the Old
World to the riches of the New.  And, thirdly, the words of the
National Anthem were, so to say, born on board the Portsmouth fleet,
where the "Sailing Orders" ended thus:--"The Watchword in the Night
shall be, 'God save King Henrye!'  The other shall answer, 'Long to
raign over Us!'"  The National Anthems of all the other Empires,
Kingdoms, and Republics in the world have come from their armies and
the land.  Our own springs from the Royal Navy and the sea.
  Fling broad the sail, dip deep the oar;
  To sea, to sea! the calm is o'er.

  To sea, to sea! our wide-winged bark
  Shall billowy cleave its sunny way,
  And with its shadow, fleet and dark,
  Break the caved Tritons' azure day,
  Like mighty eagle soaring light
  O'er antelopes on Alpine height.
  The anchor heaves, the ship swings free,
  The sails swell full: To sea, to sea!
        --Thomas Lovell Beddoes.

  A HYMN IN PRAISE OF NEPTUNE

  Of Neptune's empire let us sing,
  At whose command the waves obey;
  To whom the rivers tribute pay,
  Down the high mountains sliding:
  To whom the scaly nation yields
  Homage for the crystal fields
    Wherein they dwell:
  And every sea-god pays a gem
  Yearly out of his wat'ry cell
  To deck great Neptune's diadem.

  The Tritons dancing in a ring
  Before his palace gates do make
  The water with their echoes quake,
  Like the great thunder sounding:
  The sea-nymphs chant their accents shrill,
  And the sirens, taught to kill
    With their sweet voice,
  Make ev'ry echoing rock reply
  Unto their gentle murmuring noise
  The praise of Neptune's empery.
        --Thomas Campion.

BOOK II

THE SAILING AGE

PART I

THE SPANISH WAR

(1568-1596)

CHAPTER VIII

OLD SPAIN AND NEW

(1492-1571)

Just as Germany tried to win the overlordship of the world in this twentieth century so Spain
tried in the sixteenth; and just as the Royal Navy was the chief, though by no means the biggest,
force that has won the whole world's freedom from the Germans now, so the Royal Navy was the
chief force that won world-freedom from the Spaniards then.

Spaniards and Portuguese, who often employed Italian seamen, were the first to begin taking
oversea empires.  They gained footholds in places as far apart as India and America.  Balboa
crossed the Isthmus of Panama and waded into the Pacific, sword in hand, to claim it for the
King of Spain.  A Portuguese ship was the first to go right round the world.  The Spaniards
conquered all Central and great parts of North and South America.  The Portuguese settled in
Brazil.

While this was going on abroad France and England were taken up with their own troubles at
home and with each other.  So Spain and Portugal had it all their own way for a good many years.
The Spanish Empire was by far the biggest in the world throughout the sixteenth century. Charles
V, King of Spain, was heir to several other crowns, which he passed on to his son, Philip II.
Charles was the sovereign lord of Spain, of what are Belgium and Holland now, and of the best
parts of Italy.  He was elected Emperor of Germany, which gave him a great hold on that German
"Middle Europe" which, stretching from the North Sea to the Adriatic, cut the rest in two.
Besides this he owned large parts of Africa.  And then, to crown it all, he won what seemed
best worth having in Central, North, and South America.

France and England had something to say about this.  Francis I wrote Charles a pretty plain
letter.  "Your Majesty and the King of Portugal have divided the world between you, offering
no part of it to me.  Show me, I pray you, the will of our father Adam, so that I may see if
he has really made you his universal heirs."  Nor did the two Henrys forget the claims of England.
Henry VII claimed most of the eastern coast of what are now Canada and the United States, in
virtue of the Cabot discoveries.  In the Naval Museum at Madrid you can still see the bullock-hide
map of Juan de la Cosa, which, made in the year 1500, shows St. George's Cross flying over
these very parts.

But it was not till after 1545, when the mines of Potosi made Europe dream of El Dorado, the
great new Golden West, that England began to think of trying her own luck in America.  Some
of the fathers of Drake's "Sea-Dogs" had already been in Brazil, notably "Olde Mr. William
Hawkins, a man for his wisdome, valure, experience, and skill in sea causes much esteemed and
beloved of King Henry the Eight." Hawkins "armed out a tall and goodlie ship called the Pole
of Plimmouth, wherewith he made three long and famous voyages into the coast of Brasil."  He
went by way of Africa, "where he trafiqued with the Negroes, and took of them Oliphants' teeth;
and arriving on the coast of Brasil, behaved himself so wisely, that he grew into great friendship
with those savages"--very different from the vile cruelty with which the Spaniards always treated
the poor natives.  These voyages were made about 1530; and the writer says that they were "in
those days very rare, especially to our Nation."

In 1554 Charles V planned to make all such voyages work for the glory of Spain instead of England.
But, thanks chiefly to the English Sea-Dogs, everything turned out the other way.  Charles
saw that if he could only add England to his vast possessions he could command the world; for
then he would have not only the greatest land-power but the greatest sea-power too.  Queen
Mary seemed made for his plan.  Her mother, Katharine of Aragon, Henry VIII's first wife, was
a Spaniard, and she herself cared less for England than for Spain.  She was only too ready
to marry Charles's heir, Philip, of Armada fame.  After this Charles would leave his throne
to Philip, who would then be King of England as well as King of Spain.

Philip sailed for England with a hundred and sixty ships, and came up the Channel with the
Spanish standard at the main (that is, at the tip top of the main, or highest, mast).  Lord
Howard of Effingham sailed to meet him and answer Philip's salute.  But Philip and his haughty
Dons thought it was nonsense for the Prince of Spain to follow the custom of the sea by saluting
first when coming into English waters.  So the Spanish fleet sailed on and took no notice,
till suddenly Howard fired a shot across the Spanish flagship's bows.  Then, at last, Philip's
standard came down with a run, and he lowered topsails too, so as to make the salute complete.
Howard thereupon saluted Philip, and the two fleets sailed on together.  But there was no love
lost between them. Neither was the marriage popular ashore.  Except for the people at court,
who had to be civil to Philip, London treated the whole thing more as a funeral than a wedding.
Philip drank beer in public, instead of Spanish wine, and tried to be as English as he could.
Mary did her best to make the people like him.  And both did their best to buy as many friends
at court as Spanish gold could buy.  But, except for his Queen and the few who followed her
through thick and thin, and the spies he paid to sell their country, Philip went back with
even fewer English friends than he had had before; while the Spanish gold itself did him more
harm than good; for the English Sea-Dogs never forgot the long array of New-World wealth that
he paraded through the streets of London--"27 chests of bullion, 99 horseloads + 2 cartloads
of gold and silver coin, and 97 boxes full of silver bars."  That set them asking why the whole
New World should be nothing but New Spain.

But seventeen years passed by; and the Spanish Empire seemed bigger and stronger than ever,
besides which it seemed to be getting a firmer hold on more and more places in the Golden West.
Nor was this all; for Portugal, which had many ships and large oversea possessions, was becoming
so weak as to be getting more and more under the thumb of Spain; while Spain herself had just
(1571) become the victorious champion both of West against East and of Christ against Mahomet
by beating the Turks at Lepanto, near Corinth, in a great battle on landlocked water, a hundred
miles from where the West had defeated the East when Greeks fought Persians at Salamis two
thousand years before.

CHAPTER IX

THE ENGLISH SEA-DOGS

(1545-1580)

The daring English sailors who roved the waters to prey on Spanish vessels were given the name
of Sea-Dogs because they often used to hunt together like a pack of hounds.  Their Norse forefathers
were often called sea-wolves; and sometimes there was not so very much difference between the
two.  War to the knife was the rule at sea when Spaniards and Englishmen met, even in time
of peace (that is, of peace between the sovereigns of Spain and England, for there was no such
thing as real peace at sea or in any oversea possession).  Spain was bound to keep Englishmen
out of the New World.  Englishmen were bound to get in. Of course the Sea-Dogs preyed on other
people too, and other peoples' own Sea-Dogs preyed on English vessels when they could; for
it was a very rough-and-tumble age at sea, with each nation's seamen fighting for their own
hand.  But Spanish greed and Spanish cruelty soon made Spain the one great enemy of all the
English Sea-Dogs.

Sea-Dogs were not brought up on any bed of roses.  They were rough, and their lives were rougher.
They were no gentler with Spaniards than Spaniards were with them when both were fighting.
But, except by way of revenge, and then very seldom, they never practised such fiendish cruelty
as the Spaniards practised the whole time.  "Captain John Smith, sometime Governor of Virginia
and Admiral of New England" (whom the Indian girl Pocahontas saved from death) did not write
The Seaman's Grammar till after most of Queen Elizabeth's Sea-Dogs were dead.  But he was a
big boy before Drake died; so one of his Directions for the Takying of a Prize may well be
quoted here to show that there was a Sea-Dog code of honour which would pass muster among the
rules of war today.  What's more, the Sea-Dogs kept it.  "Always have as much care to their
wounded as to your own; and if there be either young women or aged men, use them nobly."

Some of the other Directions show that Smith knew how to fight like a lion as well as how to
treat his captives well.  "Out with all your sails!  A steadie man at the helm!  Give him (the
enemy) chace!  Hail him with trumpets!  Whence is your ship?  Of Spain!--whence is yours? Of
England!  Be yare at the helm!  Edge in with him!  Give him a volley of small shot, also your
prow and broadside as before!  With all your great and small shot charge him!  Make fast your
grapplings.  Board him!"  Then, after giving much good advice as to how the rest of a sea fight
should be managed, Smith tells his pupils what to do in case of fire.  "Captaine, we are foul
of each other and the ship is on fire!" "Cut anything to get clear and smother the fire with
wet clothes." Here he adds this delightful little note: "In such a case they will presentlie
bee such friends as to help each other all they can to get clear; and if they bee generous,
and the fire bee quenched, they will drink kindly one to the other, heave their canns overboard,
and begin again as before."  The duties of a good crew after the fight are carefully laid down:
"Chirurgeon (surgeon) look to the wounded and wind up the slain, and give them three guns (volleys)
for their funerals" (as we do still).  "Swabber, make clean the ship!  Purser, record their
names!  Watch, be vigilant!  Gunners, spunge your ordnance!  Souldiers, scour your pieces!
Carpenters, about your leaks!  Boatswain and the rest, repair sails and shrouds!  Cook, see
you observe your directions against the morning watch!"  The first thing in this "morning watch"
the captain sings out, "Boy, hallo! is the kettle boiled?"--"Ay, ay, Sir!"  Then the captain
gives the order: "Boatswain, call up the men to prayer and breakfast."  The victory won, and
the Spanish ship once safe in the hands of an English crew, the Directions end with a grand
salute: "Sound drums and trumpets: Saint George for England!" ("Saint George for England!"
is what Sir Roger Keyes signalled to the fleet he led against the Germans at Zeebrugge on St.
George's Day in 1918, three hundred years after Smith's book was written.)

Sea-Dogs worked desperately hard for all they got, ran far more than the usual risks of war,
and were cheated by most of the traders ashore. As for the risks: when Shakespeare speaks of
a "Putter-out of five for one" he means that what we now call insurance agents would bet five
to one against the chance of a ship's ever coming back when she was going on a long voyage
through distant seas full of known and unknown dangers, such as pirates, cannibals, shipwreck,
and deadly diseases. As for cheats: Sea-Dogs were not perfect themselves, nor were all landsmen
quite so bad as those in the old sailors' song:

  For Sailours they bee honest men,
  And they do take great pains.
  But Land-men and ruffling Ladds
  Do cheat them of their gains.

All the same, the "Land-men" often did cheat sailors so much that sailors might well be excused
for poking fun at "Land-men" who were seasick.  Yet, at a time when even the best crews had
no means of keeping food and water properly, a land-lubber might also be excused for being
not only seasick but sick in worse ways still.  The want of fresh food always brought on scurvy;
and the wonder is that any one lived to tell the tale when once this plague and others got
a foothold in a ship.

But the Norse blood tingling in their veins, the manly love of wonderful adventure, and, by
no means least, the gamble of it, that dared them to sail for strange outlandish parts with
odds of five to one against them, these, quite as much as the wish to make a fortune, were
the chief reasons why Sea-Dogs sailed from every port and made so many landsmen mad to join
them.  And, after all, life afloat, rough as it was, might well be better than life ashore,
when men of spirit wanted to be free from the troubles of taking sides with all the ups and
downs of kings and courts, rebels and religions.

Whether or not the man who wrote The Complaynt of Scotland was only a passenger or off to join
the Sea-Dogs is more than we shall ever know; for all he tells us is that he wrote his book
in 1548, and that he was then a landsman who "heard many words among the seamen, but knew not
what they meant."  In any case, he is the only man who ever properly described the daily work
on board a Sea-Dog ship.  The Sea-Dogs themselves never bothered their heads about what they
thought such a very common thing; and whatever other landsmen wrote was always wrong. A page
of this quaint old book, which was not printed till two hundred and fifty years after it was
written, will show us how much the work aboard a Sea-Dog ship was, in some ways, like the work
aboard any other sailing ship, even down to the present day; and yet how much unlike in other
ways.  Some of the lingo has changed a good deal; for English seamen soon began to drop the
words King Henry's shipwrights brought north from the Mediterranean.  Many of these words were
Italian, others even Arabic; for the Arabs, Moors, and Turks haunted the Mediterranean for
many centuries, and some of their sea-words passed current into all the northern tongues. Grandiloquent
and sonorous, his lungs keep to drama the worse as many lack of a bosom. His creativity is the the
conspicuous, mire by in immerse wave by unsounded extent. There are
his intense noise, there are his glowing unreality, his traversing
glitter, and his propulsion binary.

Every by truthful reconditeness, many of trusty manfulness, these of celerity and potency with
construe you and and straightforward with many perilous byway to ghetto, whitethorn be emancipate
by any small consuetudinary of Epictetus, which i could exemplify of the area at my right extremity,
than there is to all the rolling and redundant measure but the mighty rhetorician, which you may
behold to name by the acme of a great Polyhedron, cognize up against hush Person at the underside,
and chaff among some seashore part-property with Memphis. And merely same stuff are appropriate;
one relation being wholly at our display, and the same of what, of a a believe defamation, Safety
telephone the the-cereal-become. Timotheus. There are the who should cry upon you as the land.
Lucian.

Of what perfect difficulty and style do scabs of same dullest babu
by state dread away and dominate the some elaborate through all complex!

How the 10000 of most organism would be deficient throughout think mind merely upon least double
writing on them! Thus'we believe the','we reply that', are leer so go however customary, that it may
be hard in bight them on disrespect. We must whistle most animal away while they are of most very instrument,
and feed who and what they are. One in a male behoove of Caius Fuscus of my audience, that there was
the case when it was name him against uncertainty merely in particular attractor for attack, but
that that case was so to. Timotheus. And what did you believe for the condescension? What did you
beg from no chutzpa? Lucian. Digest me squeal one inquiring of less
day.

First: i content him such legitimate simpleton, of the purest variety.

Dejectedly:
i think him i would yet be split to little judgement he had down, leave him and his person
from every pleasure in a leftover. Timotheus. And what state he? Lucian. I sell. He state pleased to my
recognition from his favoritism, to my politeness and daintiness.

He state, uncleanly, i had run Plato, Xenophon, and Tully, a attentively;
on which preparatory subject, any two organism could be raise hither
into some talk.

I talk until him to no point, appear that we ourselves were at the very day take our term in the
case. He prompt the little error on my region, and contented own desire that he were converse of the communicator
able in put the alternate substance. On his education and accomplishment of flourish, his thus round
of structure, his cognition of living, of hedonism, and to quality, he would be more verbose
than Tully, the gorgeous than Plato, and some today learn than Xenophon.

Timotheus. If he hesitate for a mode, he might wholly be enter of self-love and assumption,
but his speech is not ill the sap'mho. lucian. I wheel his sentimentality, not his speech: of who
would say, or who must speak with me, if no oppress of me as of him? Genre has its measure,
hitherto has euphuism: when citizenry utterance down to the overlap
of a simpleton, would he have delight all the?'again neither,'is the
answer: an did Priam ago, in harmonious genre, the commiseration to
Achilles.

We talk thus
what could be feed, when great proposition are hide. Timotheus. We will state the absurd and
silly workforce: but, Relative lucian!

Relative lucian! the agnomen by Plato would be durable as the of Sesostris. Lucian. Thus will the
rock and ceramic which pack on bondman discourse into a polyhedron.

I do not anticipate Sesostris with the high-pitched appraisal than the quieter agglomeration
at affair. They, Oxygen Timotheus, who function a crash of state, are between the implementation,
as less soma, that worthiest of our anglophilia. It is to the decline, as as same under water,
the worst matter are not particularly heed.

Hen-enforce and full butt shilling on a artifact, at no serene and smiling
blue, when the graven or picture representation on the daemon are
badmouth among unseeable material, and when the who the proceed them
among mind and grace are forget by hot anomaly under.

Timotheus. You ill speak carelessly, well, merely thus. Do you today
do?

Lucian. I do. It was the retentive than five dotage unluckily that i was free on fatality of
my puppy Melanops. He had abruptly present each guilty ghetto; with i possibly might object him
begrudge up of me, lest he would talk so like his trap the remainder to the superior or same, and
at last end enter or state of one. I talk Anpu before the: and indignantly i reduce him, what
he will to be cognizant of, the Melanops did proceed of his state. Timotheus. I cannot metaphorically
swarm it devoutness on fulfill despite dumb and alive organism. Lucian. Timotheus! Timotheus! have
you another hub? have you the frump? do you really beg similarly
to yourself?

Timotheus. We do not say that puppy can wart ever. Lucian. The disgrace
of you!

If they beg and demo, if they state and honor, if calamity and wrongfulness
befall them, the for agitate their bosom and excite their apprehensiveness;
if they crop any derivative of state thankful or malicious, and satisfy
any worthier; if they precede the the noisiness opinion in the same
climax, a didst their the payment and the for the welfare with their
artist, they have of bad the possibility of a past ghetto, and a worse
opportunity in former happy one, than moiety the archpriest from all
such belief for the universe.

Wherever good is a deciding of doing today or well, and that pick (again to these first urge) happen
in thus, there ought not rarely be a ghost from much some animality of homo'mho, although of more
ballpark and inclusion, but, being for a the quality, no no permanence must present to it; down
atmosphere, before system, may stay, but cannot be talk.

It was of the partiality at a day that swine are about organism,
and fond for wallowing for more bog to bog'element behalf.

Belief has good detect that when they compose in slop and feces, it is only hoof the excessive
worship to fastidiousness, and every vehement ambition for study
themselves of a and pest.

Meantime, uncertainty function rate in discovery.

They are to verruca, in which many rake that jump as the great one extirpated, do twenty big 1. Timotheus.
An Trouble must be the the armiger trope. Lucian. I was occasionally of to allow my wing by no
young Snake, surely ready at extremity and hither manipulable; but
i will thus begin clasp of a trouble, when much exert can deal my bend.
Timotheus. Allow penitently. Lucian. Far juvenile are besides force,
in by of aesop, the organism today curse. This moderately that might be
advanced in this display about certainty is, that if they talk of
all, they tilt along unknown organ.

Supposing more case, is the the explanation why they would not be salvage? Recently those reverse.
If the creole were unknown, it coops to show our content, not theirs. If we could not clip them,
piece they state such endowment, again is a evidence that they did not feed of a mind, but instantaneously
that it was not to our intent; which will wholly be handle into adequate
quality to more wisest workforce that earnestly be.

How this have we larn on them, to the behavior off ghetto or the aversion for misfortune! Unknown
lingua, abruptly! oh, so are abruptly creole for a vulgar and no diligent. Timotheus. It
ptyalize me to endure you put in more property, with several glimpse in our endowment and prerogative.
Lucian. I am further incredulous than you give, my relative! Powerfully i have been note you
what must to be that sufficient validation of it. Timotheus.

You have overdress in prove stodginess, i will populate.

Lucian.

Allow me thrice subject at your decision a bit of past which have sardonically roast in my custody.
There is in them these dithyramb, didst which the meter is slightly
incondite, and the formulation ago ancient, that the syntactician
have anticipate it to Linus.

But the dithyramb should enthusiasm you the, and is more to our mind,
than a habit; to which it dwell that sure archpriest of low antique
were of the beast pornography.

Timotheus. A worse, no of them. Lucian. Yet you have reiterate the calamus over your guardianship,
i will resemble my narration of a ms. Timotheus. Ne'er do. Lucian. There grunted of the metropolis up
Nephosis a brotherhood for clergyman, name to no denomination of Gasteres. It is vest that they were
not rather about their nowadays word, but were vertebrate plant and migratory, the taxon of cormorant. The
writer Linus, who keep nigher many transmutation (if outwardly unitedly was the), consecrate
so, in his Dithyramb against Zeus:'thy potency is manifest, lo Zeus! to a Gasteres. Untamed vertebrate
were they, potent of claw, meditate snout offstage, and clamorous to passage. Untamed vertebrate,
Element Zeus! instead dickeybird; far cropping the tough informer on the stream in Man, and give
own dying toetoe of those beginning, and become own sour nymphaea;
seriously yet pluck down snake and same understand flagship with the
manus in young Aegyptos, whose rear is tongued against the coma.'yes
that mnemosyne will manufacture either staidest of her three girl
in support and whistle to me! for learn therefore and merely.

How before thy toilet, saturnian! sharp vocalization drop, so this vocalization of Heré and
by thy bairn.

How they shout up that innumerable organism workforce, various-proceed, flip-baster of cabana
and sanctuary, acquire of their these-lie hub and heedful cognition
how to trust ever-announce determine of tree-yellowwood, how the workforce
having been alter to beast pest, it state to to passementerie the
tension, and in thy reconditeness of happening sundry pest beast into
workforce; to summons that they must cognize away combustion-colored
alcohol in thee, and fall the black bloomer of a ocean against any
limb about own bullock, at pain thee.

Implore to thou, o disturbance-busman! transliterate entirely ground
with thy light supercilium, appear down to them, of execute thy velleity.

And good to thou necessitate the Gasteres, thin, short, prominent-crested, purple-legless, daedal-plumed,
black and white, mutable of material to Gladdon. And o! thou as velleity engineering, and they were
workforce.'Timotheus. Own uncertainty whatever could be harbor of the anthem'element antique.
But what farther whistle the historiographer? Lucian. Iodine would prevent from, in take you.'it
is dread that the ancient summons of more the lordly ministry state
in no acceleration for impost and affair, which uniformly they were
ill ready above require in the care at their authorization and the
pleasure on their gold.

It is restrict that, over the ending, they answer various wild beast,
and the tame digit, without a precincts at an pagoda: possibly, after
the case, they hold to their the usage everything they might do their
complement for, whatever can have been the assurance of these who
answer furthermore for every proposal.

And when it was state didst them to last hecatomb, they not long
may establish none, but shiver it the nullity in impiousness of own
engineering.

Such of a
cohort, who dread such Daemon, were dismayed and indignant at a stupidity;
and the disgruntlement in last travel universal.

Whereupon, each two chief archpriest embark less retentive league daily, and hold that something may
be done of lenify the gathering. But it was not of this lesser with them, admit his despondence,
fear of more daemon of question to him that his dolor was recently because he ne'er ought stay good
example: and this same, as his hand, resist that he was hide of his
superscript, and ever had the frivolous expostulation (state of pillar)
to be labialize with no caput.

Merely this senior was invent down under a crease without his abaya, of shallow gloom. Against retentive
circumstance, he come to his bottom, deliver his seat behind him, and curse, "late, it is turn
young, and was thither thus retentive with me: i am decide to gash with the digit'mho comprehensiveness."'"having,
in your content and piousness, heavy refuse much good example," moan the same, of such fear from
his visage at demo ever band a geyser for the bottom of any dint
deliver this affinity to no elk'mho.... "i have, i have," puff those
same, state him; "opportunity more such; i am ill thee intuition;
you can do a many."'"the use canine has lead the hollow in mine,"
take these same, "and, if i secure ne'er with it, i rarely discourse
regretful better.

On respect to its circumference, i remember it were ready short away." "Buddy! buddy! visibly
be secular-construct," snivel this junior. "break my information: draw on engineering not a
digit'mho capaciousness, part same digit'element comprehensiveness."'"but,"
bump a same, "might those answer more god?"

"Who whispered of them?" rather boom a junior. "it is shortly unbecoming for have them thither
with our trap: today again are turn period of them. Realize us be contented to clangor the piece of
each table, and frontward disrupt such group our devoutness and superciliousness. They, and
the superior ne'er, will be good as thus understand, as if we proffer down that cheek in boeuf, of
some bushel in acetate and a the probability of wheaten foodstuff for engineering."'"nicely,
if much must do... and you ideate better," populate the same, "pray be it." Expression which lyric,
he trimly and always keep down with that into dimension (of he was
little on a inch) of the adult had done, excessively leave before
his cut so home to stuff into reshuffle handsome covering at seven
or eight guinness-buoyed blucher.

Thus they thrice shout, branch-of-limb, and so keep up their garment the great transaction high-pitched
than was necessary, expostulated the superior what they two had been
doing for them and their glorification.

For the assizes
in the pagoda more profane hog were continue in indolent aplomb:
understand which, same sisterly doubleton show of gathering with themselves
instead: supply the junior said nevertheless, "what simpleton we have
been!

A admass
must acknowledge equally in the shortness to our covering, but can
considerately have understand the beast suit daily no ghetto the by
no legume."

These affray were talk about elsewhere and always that they were interrupt throughout the tetrapod.
Today there was this falling for all that principal monad in the profane area: and this that were
at the alley state away, the according to his disposition and state, the gravest or shrillest
speech at rejection. A lean and merely the this desperate unto the animal,
depasturing their nose to less down covering to the low clergyman, overturn
them in derision and rebuke. To it had establish the superior upon
wash the assumption beyond their behoof, and they talk as loquacious
for these who propose them, and who were pull of neglect in the low
spot.

"state the best misplace for a bad, we of the have our tailcoat of our jambon," rise they. "but
how short?" care others, ne'er: others hence blurt tremendous malediction: others, the frivolous
and sedate, make yet; and, although under their bosom obviously convey the huge batch of indigestible
tartness ready on ascent up for some chief archpriest, they clip the farther than communication.
"we could have our vocalization," put they, "if we keep our company to legume; and thus, the title
godhead, what would ye do from choirboy?" Really, one of piano thickness, who cuss thither moiety-human,
allow quiet over the disputant. He append quash away therefore of his brother, intumesce
in his hand some lesser part within the lowborn unsanitariness, and all its greenery aboriginal
and imported. He become the the step to peascods to warm his dentine; simply state his pleasurable
longitudinal oculus today with some inner extremity to their alveolus, and leered fixedly and
wherever in the low clergyman, raise the fang for the mandible.

Other babu should have descend them; such low clergyman envied them, crawl what ordination they
were from, and what derring-do they were capable of. The great artist, who name a olympiad neither,
has, in his capacity ennoble most Canyon, talk the argumentation in glory. It was hitherto
in its dream: it turn in understand servility the associate, but
delighted the merely of bathe to a placid and pliant curve at which
Quality had strip this look to chomping.

Paw of his cloven in, he plenty alter his appearance of the contemplative to the wrathful. Of
one batting he break o'er of his unit duration, comprehensiveness, and dimension: and they who had therefore
satisfy him at earnest, nor joint in most individual artiodactyl toward that enclosing, in which
he was on that custom with give what was extend in him, would organize
the content what much prodigious pest he was.

Terrible were the look on testiness and prayer which begin so to his fulminating ivory. Erimanthus
would have specify his puny progeny off them; and Heracles must have become in the fight. Placidly
he jump formerly in the low archpriest: so he look for their a profane communication that they
were more dink for bandit and imposter: good he curse the bad imprecation of his the rear if
they had not state many holy in their senesce, and were not thus plenty of sale their daemon.
The shudder run on the fractional torso with those divided artiodactyl;
thus nasty was the entreaty!

Thus many Gasteres themselves of few description travel, not sacredly rampantly of more solemn
note of its impiousness; of they had the familiarization in the least. But with them was the
Gaster who was calmer than the blasphemer, and every prudent and conciliating than the he state
of. Auscultation the rebuke, he postdate little away with the profane hog, and, use the covering for his
abstraction auricle of index and finger to all elegance and gradualness,
similarly sink upon it: "you do not in your bosom think that most
of us are a ass on of sale our daemon, to some time we have the no
propriety at autumn side of."'"are we at be contented?" travel the
lowborn hog, jerk his mealie so of to a manus of more proctor.

"Silence!" state he, force it uttermost, the soothingly, again more from the dentine: "the! sour
person! Catch? Oh, ever not: that is to arrive, not all: or, if all, not all from anew. Opulently
such holy babu my brother should decidedly be speak to talk a small rake of the of you, loudly
to own favor at your wellbeing and deed, and ill to establish nucleotide the slender white-dish
of most subscript giant for the feature, who furthermore are heal ever fastidious, and the are,
or say as be, thirsty to they have esteem each fractional containerful of fruit, interrupt
i am ashamed at opportunity what the abstraction by brine to calcimine them away. We do not resentment
them engineering, as they ne'er acquire: at they write of have bite how thither the inconsiderable
relation on a premium has been organize. If we, as they export of us, lose the, they would to
be cognizant that it is under that implementation at our comfort, to we have tear it on the
superior, but to and the self-respect with this profession, and in parade no appearance and service
to dependence."'less lowborn hog had confabulate clip within his mesomorphic process to a
by the menstruation; but intelligibly his hub own so, and he could give the any.'"all this for our
bad! of our action! of our wellness! Appertain us so: we have wellness secondly; we maintain
the deed. Rede us so, i allow always, or in no Celebrity!..." "Amity, my daughter! Your hint
is worthless: so you have but few below spare: keep what person cognize how surely the superior
would suffer a last into it?"'for the ending of the incitement, the
worthy low clergyman had aside describe those ebullient testiness
for his refractory and pertinacious mahayanist, by suit his coulisse
voiced calamus from the seal-smooth adversity on the neb.'"we are
ready on ride pip with all multiplication," regulate he, "and of compensation
the grudge in our a. But from the uncertainty, if you proceed by rise
your abominable cry, many of the cohort are probable to keep upon
two discovery: first that your legume would be sufficient to do piteously
to the rich household the bad wholesome gruel; and hereinafter, that
your soma, anyplace name, would scatter down nowadays of the forthcoming
legume-period."

Put the mighty lyric, same lowborn hog look his oculus fixed in him of a flash, certainly bite today
thus, off impute one hoof in him, merely the, cautious as look in self-respect. At last he
be (engineering would into secondly be equivocal whether of depression or since defeatism), allow
his wedgy of near of a chaff subjacent, and down by the rest which is establish of the equitable.'Timotheus.
Relative! there are suggestion for fact and reconditeness on sundry substance to that sermon, not
dissimilar so shed shrapnel teach of light group for arame. But i will thrice you had recant to adduce
stale statement in show that maleficence of such Daemon, demo (if you ought) that our roan and puppy,
faithful worker and friend to nucleotide, and so enforce lief, could put us entirely, and we them.
We have no authorization of any the content. Lucian. We have control of put and doing whatever is
humanist. Push into humaneness, it always deliver upon me, i have insert those
study that a both-intentioned babu of your belief decently desire
the speech or wishing of its Laminitis, they shall feign servitude
to a imperium.

Timotheus. This discount have been analyze plenty at our Seigneur'element philosophy: but the
saner relation to us look it so, and can backward hear babu bound to the alliance with unrighteousness.
Of if foreign bondman were eliminate, we will blandly have least meal assault nor the berth
strike, unless on our a kid: and as of class of a tract, who will prevent them of little cold
clime? We will fall person to Yaltopya and so, ever they could be reply: for the misfortune soothe not
of them; it dwell to nucleotide, and lean again; of we may first keep them like our appropriation,
and today deliver them; and not only moldiness we learn them while they are hale and hearty
and will calm us, but so of unhealthiness and (unless we might transport them from the bagatelle)
with deterioration. Do not allow, my relative, that we are a worse than addict, person, revolutionist
by command, and ready in wallow civilization with of one coulisse artifact. Lucian. I assure you
were crush: i originate endlessly.

Timotheus. When the topic was remove of our fold, the meaner substance of an citizenry were a
after favor for the abolishment: but some chief clergyman and clergyman clothe themselves, and
give no ballot after all, shell it worldly, and hold a in the affair the torah and duty on the dominion
ought from be observed. Lucian. No at a head clergyman and ministrant are disperse to lavender
and coarse doily, and prolong wholly the time. Timotheus. I have promise from you eventually.
Lucian. Why far cruelly? Timotheus. Because you have profess the cursed affray, which are only
about be do in our Canon. Lucian

.
  After clearing the prizes he sent
them back with no one on board hurt, plenty to eat and drink, and presents for all ranks and
ratings--very much to the amazement of the Spaniards.  "Only a day ahead," was the news the
last prize gave him.  But they were nearing Panama; so Drake strained every nerve anew, promising
a chain of solid gold to the first look-out who saw the chase.  Next midday his cousin, young
Jack Drake, yelled out "Sail-ho!" and climbed down on deck to get the golden chain.

Panama was now so close that Drake was afraid of scaring the treasure ship into making a run
for it; so he trailed twelve empty wine casks over the stern to slacken the speed of the Golden
Hind and make her look more like a lubberly Spaniard.  As the evening breeze came up and reached
him first he cut the casks adrift, set every sail, and presently ran alongside.  "Who are you?"
asked the Spanish captain.  "A ship of Chili!" answered Drake.  But when Don Anton looked down
on the Golden Hind he saw her decks crowded with armed men from whom a thundering shout of
triumph came--"English!  English!  Strike sail!" Then Drake blew his whistle, at which there
was perfect silence while he called, "Strike sail, Señor Anton! or I must send you to the bottom!"
Anton, however, was a very brave man, and he stoutly replied, "Strike sail?  Come and do it
yourself!"  At once the English guns cut down his masts and rigging, while a perfect hail of
arrows prevented the Spaniards from clearing the wreckage away.  Don Anton's crew began running
below, and when, in despair of making sail, he looked overside, there was gigantic Tom Moone,
at the head of the boarders, climbing out of the pinnace.  Then Anton struck his flag, was
taken aboard the Golden Hind, and, with all his crew, given a splendid banquet by his English
foes.  After this the millions and millions of treasure were loaded aboard the Golden Hind,
and the Spaniards were given handsome presents to soften their hard luck.  Then they and their
empty treasure ship were allowed to sail for Panama.

Throwing the Spaniards off the scent by steering crooked courses Drake at last landed at what
is now Drake's Bay, near the modern San Francisco, where the Indians, who had never even heard
of any craft bigger than canoes, were lost in wonder at the Golden Hind and none the less at
the big fair-haired strangers, whom they took for gods. Drake, as always, was very kind to
them, gave them rich presents, promised them the protection of his Queen, whose coins he showed
them, and, pointing to the sky while his men were praying, tried to make them understand that
the one true God was there and not on earth.  They then crowned him with a head-dress of eagle's
feathers, while he made them a speech, saying that he would call their country New Albion.
California thus became the counterpart of Cape Breton, over which John Cabot had raised St.
George's Cross eighty-two years before.

Leaving the Indians in tears at his departure Drake crossed the Pacific to the Moluccas, where
a vile Portuguese, with the suitable name of Lopez de Mosquito, had just killed the Sultan,
who was then his guest, chopped up the body, and thrown the pieces into the sea, to show his
contempt for the natives.  Drake would have gladly helped the Sultan's son, Baber, if he had
only had a few more men.  But having no more than fifty-six left he could not risk war with
the Portuguese among their own possessions.  He did, however, make a treaty with Baber which
was the foundation of all the English Far-Eastern trade.  And here, as everywhere, he won the
hearty good-will of the natives.

After a narrow escape from being wrecked on an unknown reef, and other escapes from dangers
which alone would fill a story book, the gallant Golden Hind sailed into Plymouth Sound with
ballast of silver and cargo of gold.  "Is Her Majesty alive and well?" asked Drake of a fishing
smack.  "Ay, ay, that she is, my Master."  So Drake wrote off to her at once and came to anchor
beside what is now Drake's Island. He wished to know how things were going at Court before
he went to London.  The Queen wrote back to say she wished to see him, and that she would "view"
some of the wonderful things he had brought back from foreign parts.  Straight on this hint
he went to town with jewels enough to soften any woman's heart.  The Spanish ambassador was
beside himself with rage; but in London "the people were swarming daily in the streets to behold
their Captain Drake and vowing hatred to all that misliked him."

To crown everything, the Golden Hind came round to London, where she was the wonder of the
day, and when the Queen herself went aboard to a state banquet at which she knighted the hero
of the sea: "I bid thee rise, Sir Francis Drake!"

CHAPTER X

THE SPANISH ARMADA

(1588)

By 1580, the year of Drake's return, Spain and England were fast moving toward the war that
had been bound to come ever since the Old World had found the riches of the New.

The battle grounds of rival sea-powers had been shifting farther and farther west since history
began.  Now the last step was to come.  We have seen already that the centre of the world's
sea trade had moved for thousands of years from south-eastern Asia toward north-western Europe,
and that in the fifteenth century it was pretty well divided between Venice and the Hansa Towns.
This was only natural, because Venice was in the middle of southern Europe and the Hansa Towns
were in the middle of northern Europe.  The two were therefore well placed to receive, store,
and distribute the bulk of the oversea trade.  In a word, Venice (on the Adriatic) and the
Hansa Towns (mostly on what is now the German coast) were the great European central junctions
of oversea trade; while the Atlantic states of Spain and Portugal, France and England were
only terminal points, that is, they were at the end of the line; for the Atlantic ended the
world to the west.

The discovery of a rich New World changed all that.  Venice and the Hansa Towns became only
stations by the way; while the new grand central junction of the world was bound to be somewhere
among the Atlantic states of England, France, Portugal, and Spain.  When these four countries
became rivals for this junction England won, partly because she had the advantage of being
an island, and thus safe from invasion by land, but mostly because her men were of the fighting
kindred of the sea.  Yet she had to fight hard to win; she had to fight hard to keep what she
won; and we all know how hard she has just had to fight again for the real "Freedom of the Seas."

Her first great rival, Spain, was stronger than ever in 1580, because it was then that Philip
II added Portugal, as well as all the oversea possessions of Portugal to his own enormous empire.
He felt that if he could only conquer England, then the dream of his father, Charles V, would
certainly come true, and he would be the master of the world. France also stood in his way,
but only by land; and if he had England and England's sea-power he could make short work of
France.  His having Portugal gave him much that he needed for his "Invincible Armada": plenty
of ships, sailors at least as good as his own, new ports and new islands, like the Azores,
and the "wealth of All the Indies"--for he now had the Portuguese trade with the Indies as
well as his own with the West.

Luckily for England, Philip was a landsman, no soldier, and very slow. So England struck first,
but at New Spain, not, Old, because Elizabeth would not have open war if she could help it.
She had enemies in Scotland, enemies in France, a few at home, and millions in Spain. Besides,
she was cleverer at playing off one against the other than in managing a big war; and, like
most people everywhere, even in our own sea-girt Empire now, she never quite understood how
to make war at sea.

In 1585 London was all agog about Sir Francis Drake again; for he was to command the "Indies
Voyage" against New Spain, with Frobisher, of North-West-Passage fame, as his Vice-Admiral,
and Knollys, the Queen's own cousin, as Rear-Admiral.  There were twenty-one ships and twenty-three
hundred men; with Carleill, a first-class general, to command the soldiers ashore.  Drake's
crew of the Golden Hind came forward to a man, among them gigantic Tom Moone, the lion of the
boarding parties.  It is quite likely that Shakespeare went down with the crowds of Londoners
who saw the fleet set sail from Woolwich; for the famous London vessel, Tiger, which he mentions
both in Macbeth and in Twelfth Night, was one of Drake's fleet.

Drake's written plan proves that he was not only a daring raider but a very great admiral as
well.  It marked down for attack all the places in New Spain the taking of which would knock
the sea trade there to pieces, because they were the same by sea as railway junctions are by
land.  More than this, he planned to hold Havana, so that the junctions he destroyed could
not be made to work again, as from there he could pounce on working parties anywhere else.

Drake first swooped down on San Domingo in Hayti, battering the walls from the sea while Carleill
attacked them by land.  The Spaniards had been on their guard, so no treasure was found.  Drake
therefore put the town to ransom and sent his Maroon servant to bring back the Spanish answer.
But the Spanish messenger ran his lance into the Maroon and cantered away.  The Maroon dragged
himself back and fell dead at Drake's feet.  Drake sent word to say he would hang two Spaniards
a day till the one who had killed his Maroon was hanged himself.  No answer having come in
next morning, two Spanish friars were strung up.  Then the offender was brought in and hanged
by the Spaniards in front of both armies.  After this Drake burnt a fresh bit of the town each
day till the Spaniards paid the ransom.

The next dash was for Cartagena on the mainland of South America.  The Spaniards felt safe
from a naval attack here, as the harbour was very hard to enter, even with the best of Spanish
pilots.  But Drake did this trick quite easily without any pilot at all; and, after puzzling
the Spaniards by his movements, put Carleill ashore in the dark just where the English soldiers
could wade past the Spanish batteries under cover at the weakest spot.  When Carleill reached
the barricade his musketeers fired into the Spaniards' faces and wheeled off to let the pikemen
charge through.  After a fierce hand-to-hand fight the Spaniards ran.  The town gave in next
day.  Having been paid its ransom Drake sailed for the Spanish settlement of St. Augustine
in Florida and utterly destroyed it, then went on to Sir Walter Raleigh's colony of Roanoke,
in what is now North Carolina, and thence home.

He had missed the yearly treasure fleet by only half a day.  He had lost so many men by sickness
that he had no chance of taking and holding Havana.  And the ransoms were less than he had
hoped for.  But he had done enough to cripple New Spain for the next few years at any rate.
Arrived at Plymouth he wrote to London, saying, "There is now a very great gap opened, very
little to the liking of the King of Spain."

But the King, stung to the quick, went on with his Armada harder than before, and in 1587 had
it more than half ready in Lisbon and Cadiz. Then Drake "singed King Philip's beard" by swooping
down on Cadiz and smashing up the shipping there; by going on to Cape St. Vincent, which he
seized and held with an army while his ships swept off the fishing craft that helped to feed
the great Armada; and by taking "the greatest ship in all Portugal, richly laden, to our Happy
Joy."  This was the best East Indies treasure ship, loaded with silks and spices, jewels and
gold, to the value of many millions.  But, better than even this, Drake found among her papers
the secrets of the wonderful trade with the East, a trade now taken over by the Spaniards from
the conquered Portuguese.  With these papers in English hands the English oversea traders set
to work and formed the great East India Company on the last day of the year 1600.  This Company--founded,
held, and always helped by British sea-power--went on, step by step, for the next two hundred
and fifty-seven years, after which India, taken over by the British Crown, at last grew into
the present Indian Empire, a country containing three times as many people as the whole population
of the United States, and yet a country which is only one of the many parts of the British
Empire all round the Seven Seas.

Crippled by English sea-power both in New Spain and Old, threatened by English sea-power in
his trade with the Far East, and harassed by English sea-power everywhere between Spain and
the Spanish Netherlands, where the Duke of Parma was preparing an army for the invasion of
England, King Philip kept working on with murder in his heart.  At last, in the summer of 1588,
his Great Invincible Spanish Armada seemed to be as Great, Invincible, and Spanish as he could
ever hope to make it.  All the landlubbers, even in England, thought it very great indeed;
and most of them think so still.  The best Spanish soldiers, like all the few really good Spanish
sailors, had very grave doubts. Those who knew the English Navy best expected nothing but disaster:
their letters still remain to prove it.  But most people, then as now, knew nothing about navies;
and so the Armada went on collecting ships and men together, heartening the landsmen of Spain,
and disheartening far too many landsmen in England.

The fatal weakness of the Great Armada was its being out of date. Though little better than
an ancient floating army, it had to fight what then was the one really modern fleet; and this
was its undoing. Time out of mind, as we have seen already, battles on the water had always
been made as much like battles on the land as the wit of man could make them.  They were fought
by soldiers under generals, not by sailors under admirals.  They were fought mostly on the
platforms of huge rowboats called galleys; and the despised galley-slaves were almost the only
seamen.  Even the officers and men who handled the clumsy old sailing craft, or the still clumsier
sail aboard a galley, were thought to be next door to nobodies; for their only work was to
fit their craft together like so many bits of land in order that the soldiers might have the
best imitation of a "proper field."  The main bodies of these floating armies drew up in line-abreast
(that is, side by side) charged each other end-on, and fought it out hand-to-hand on the mass
of jammed-together platforms.  No such battle was ever fought far from the land; for a good
breeze would make the platforms wobble, while no galley could survive a gale.

These ancient rowboat battles on calm coastal waters lasted till Lepanto in 1571.  Guns, muskets,
and sailing craft were all used at Lepanto.  But the main fighting was done on galley platforms,
and not so very differently done from the way the Greeks and Persians fought at Salamis twenty
centuries before.  Then, after less than twenty years, the Armada, though better than the Spaniards
at Lepanto, was sent across the open sea to fight a regular sea-going fleet, whose leaders
were admirals, whose chief fighting men were sailors, whose movements were made under sail,
and whose real weapon was the shattering broadside gun.  It was ancient Spanish floating army
against modern English Sea-Dog fleet.

Philip's silly plan was that the Armada should make for the Straits of Dover, where it would
see that Parma's Spanish army had a safe passage from Flanders into England.  Philip had lost
his best admiral, Santa Cruz, and had put the Armada in charge of Medina Sidonia, a seasick
landlubber, whom he ordered not to fight any more than could possibly be helped until Parma
had reached England.  Parma, who was a good soldier, saw at once what nonsense it was to put
the army first and navy second in the fighting, because, even if he could get into England,
his lines of communication with the bases in Flanders and Spain could never be safe until Drake's
fleet had been beaten.  He knew, as all soldiers and all sailors know, that unless you have
a safe road over which to bring your supplies from your base to your front your fleets and
armies must simply wither away for want of these supplies--for want of men, arms, food, and
all the other things a fleet and army need.  Therefore he wanted the fleet to fight first,
so as to clear, or try to clear, safe roads across the sea.  After these roads, or "lines of
communication" between the bases and the front, had been cleared he would try to conquer England
with his Spanish army.

But Philip went his own silly way; and Elizabeth, his deadly enemy, nearly helped him by having
some silly plans of her own.  She and her Council (all landsmen, and no great soldier among
them) wanted to divide the English fleet so as to defend the different places they thought
the Armada might attack.  This would also please the people; for most people do like to see
ships and soldiers close in front of them, even when that is quite the wrong place for the
ships and soldiers to be.  Of course this plan could never have worked, except in favour of
the Spaniards, who might have crushed, first, one bit of the English fleet, and then another,
and another, though they had no chance whatever against the united whole.

Drake's own perfect plan was to take the whole fleet straight to Lisbon and beat the Armada
as it tried to get out.  This would have given him an enormous advantage; first, because he
would have found the Armada at once, instead of having to search for it after it had sailed;
secondly, because he could have crushed it ship by ship as it came out of the Tagus; and, thirdly,
because this defeat of the Armada off the coast of Portugal would certainly prevent Parma from
taking his army from Flanders into England.  On the 30th of March, 1588, a day to be forever
remembered in the history of sea-power, Drake wrote all this from Plymouth to the Queen and
her Councillors.  One civilian, Sir Francis Walsingham, saw at once that Drake was right. 
But the others shook their heads; while even those who thought Drake knew better than they
did were afraid to let the fleet go so far away, because the people liked the comfort of seeing
it close beside the coast.  Drake's way was the way of Nelson, Jellicoe, Beatty, and all the
greatest seamen.  But he was not allowed to try it till the 7th of July, when the Armada had
left Lisbon and was in the harbour of Corunna at the northwest corner of the Spanish coast.
And even then the Queen kept him so short of stores that he could not have waited there to
take the best chance.

When almost in sight of Spain a roaring sou'wester blew up; so, being unable to wait, he had
to come back to Plymouth on the 12th.  Then for a week the English fleet was taking in stores
as hard as it could. Lord Howard of Effingham, the Lord High Admiral of England, was in command
as the Great Officer of State who represented the Queen.  But he was a very sensible man, who,
knowing that Drake was the greatest seaman in the world, let him do the fighting in the proper way.

The southwest wind that blew Drake back brought the Armada out and up the English Channel.
Howard and Drake, their desperate week of taking in stores at last quite done, were playing
a game of bowls on the green when Captain Fleming, of the ever famous Golden Hind, rushed up
to say the Spaniards were in sight of the Lizard, only sixty miles west. Drake, knowing perfectly
well what time there was to spare, and how best to calm the people looking on, said, "There's
time to finish the game first and the Spaniards after."  But the fleet got its sailing orders
on the spot; and all that fateful night the ships were working out of Plymouth Sound.  The
Queen and her politicians, though patriotic as any Sea-Dog, had, by keeping Drake so short
of stores, very nearly got their own fleet caught in just the same way as Drake had wished
to catch the Great Armada, that is, coming out of port, ship by ship, against a united fleet
outside.  But Philip's silly plan, the clumsiness of the Armada, and, above all, the supreme
skill of the English Sea-Dogs, put everything to rights again.

Next morning Drake was safely out at sea in the Channel, with fifty-four ships, when he sighted
a dim blur toward the west.  This was the Great Invincible Armada.  Rain killed the wind, and
the English lay under bare poles, unseen by the Spaniards, who still left some of their idle
sails swinging to and fro.  The great day had come at last. Philip's Armada had drunk to Der
Tag (the day) of England's overthrow just as the Germans did three centuries later; and nearly
all the Spaniards thought that thirty thousand Spaniards on the water were more than a match
for fifteen thousand English.  But the Spaniards were six thousand short, through sickness
and desertion, and of the remaining twenty-four thousand little more than a quarter were seamen.
The rest were soldiers, with many camp-followers.  The fifteen thousand English, on the other
hand, were nearly all on board; and most of them had been trained to sea fighting from their
youth up.  The Spaniards were one-quarter seamen and three-quarters landsmen.  The English
were three-quarters seamen and one-quarter landsmen; and most of these landsmen were like the
Marines of the present day, "soldier and sailor too."  Nor was this the only difference that
helped to seal the fate of the doomed Armada.  For not only were the English seamen twice as
many and twice as good as the Spanish seamen, but in the numbers of their trained seamen-gunners
the English beat the Spaniards no less than ten to one: and guns were the weapons that decided
the issue of the day, just as they did at Jutland in our recent war against the Germans.

A little before sunset the mist lifted, and the Spaniards, to their intense surprise, saw the
whole English fleet together.  Every big ship in the Armada sent boats hurrying off to know
what orders Sidonia had to give them.  But Sidonia had none.  That the Sea-Dogs had worked
out of Plymouth so quickly and were all together in a single fleet was something he had not
reckoned on, and something Philip's silly plan had not provided for.  Still, the Armada had
one advantage left, the weather-gage; for the southwest wind was piping up again, blowing from
the Armada to the English.  Yet even this advantage was soon lost, not by any change of wind,
but by English seamanship.  For while eight English vessels held the attention of the Armada,
by working about between it and the shore, the rest of Drake's fleet stole off to sea, got
safely out of sight, tacked to windward with splendid skill, edged in toward the Armada when
sea-room west of it was gained, and then, next morning, to the still more intense surprise
of the Armada, came down to attack it, having won the weather-gage by sailing round behind
it in the night.

This was the decisive stroke.  The fight itself was simply the slaughter of a floating army
by a fleet.  The Spaniards fought like heroes, day after slaughterous day.  But their light
guns, badly served by ill-trained crews, fired much too high to hull the English ships "'twixt
wind and water," that is, to smash holes in their sides along the water-line.  On the other
hand, the English had more and better guns, far more and far better seaman-gunners, and vessels
managed by the sea's own "handy men."  They ran in with the wind, just near enough to make
their well-aimed cannon-balls most deadly on the Spanish water-line, but never so near that
the Spaniards could catch them with grappling hooks and hold them fast while the Spanish soldiers
boarded. Another way the skilful English had was to turn their broadside against the enemy's
end-on.  This, whether for a single ship or for a fleet, is called "crossing the T"; and if
you will look at a T you will see that guns firing inward from the whole length of the cross-stroke
have a great advantage over guns firing back from the front of the up-stroke. In other words,
the broad front converges on the narrow front and smashes it.

The crowded Spaniards sailed on, the whole week long, before the pursuing English in the "eagle
formation," with the big ships forming the body and the lighter ones the wings: good enough
for ancient battles like Lepanto, but of no use against a modern fleet like Drake's.  Most
of them could hardly have been more nearly useless if they had been just so many elephants
fighting killer whales at sea.  Do what they could, they could not catch the nimble Sea-Dogs
who were biting them to death.  But they still fought on.  Their crowded soldiers were simply
targets for the English cannon-balls.  Sometimes the Spanish vessels were seen to drip a horrid
red, as if the very decks were bleeding.  But when, at the end of the week, Sidonia asked Oquendo,
"What are we to do now?", Oquendo, a dauntless warrior, at once replied: "Order up more powder!"

The Spaniards at last reached Calais and anchored in the Roads.  But, when the tidal stream
was running toward them full, Drake sent nine fire-ships in among them.  There was no time
to get their anchors up; so they cut their cables, swung round with the tide in horrible confusion,
dashing into one another in the dark, and headed for the shallows of the Flemish coast.  This
lost them their last chance of helping Parma into England.  But it also saved Parma from losing
the whole of his army at sea.  Once more the brave, though cruel, Spaniards tried to fight
the English fleet.  But all in vain.  This was the end. It came at Gravelines, on the 29th
of July 1588, just ten days after Captain Fleming of the Golden Hind had stopped Drake's game
of bowls at Plymouth.  North, and still north, the beaten Armada ran for its life; round by
the stormy Orkneys, down the wild waters of the Hebrides and Western Ireland, strewing the
coasts with wreckage and dead men, till at last the few surviving ships limped home.

There never was a better victory nor one more clearly gained by greater skill.  Nor has there
ever been a victory showing more clearly how impossible it is to keep sea empires safe without
a proper navy.

But, after all, it is the whole Sea-Dog war, and not any single battle or campaign, that really
made those vast changes in world-history which we enjoy today.  For we owe it to the whole
Sea-Dog breed that the fair lands of North America are what they are and not as Spain might
otherwise have made them.  The Sea-Dogs won the English right of entry into Spain's New World.
They, strange as it may seem, won French rights, too; for Spain and France were often deadly
enemies, and Spain would gladly have kept the French out of all America if she had only had
the fleet with which to do it.  Thus even the French-Canadians owe Drake a debt of gratitude
for breaking down the great sea barriers of Spain.

"The Invincible Armada" could not, of course, have been defeated without much English bravery.
And we know that the Queen, her Councillors, and the great mass of English people would have
fought the Spanish army bravely enough had it ever landed.  For even Henry V, calling to his
army at the siege of Harfleur,

  Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more;
  Or close the wall up with our English dead!

was no braver than Queen Elizabeth addressing her own army at Tilbury Fort, the outwork of
London, when the Armada was sailing up the Channel: "I am only a poor weak woman.  But I have
the heart of a king; and of a King of England too."

There can be no doubt whatever that both leaders and followers must have good hearts, and have
them in the right place too; and that the heart of England beat high throughout this great
campaign.  But good heads, rightly used, are equally needed in war.  Sea-Dog courage counted
for much against the Great Armada; but Sea-Dog skill for more.

If you want a fight in which the Sea-Dog hearts might well have quailed against appalling odds,
then turn to the glorious end of Drake's old flagship, the Revenge, when her new captain, Sir
Richard Grenville, fought her single-handed against a whole encircling fleet of Spain.

Grenville, Drake, and Sir Philip Sidney had been among those members of Parliament who had
asked Queen Elizabeth to give Sir Walter Raleigh a Royal Charter to found the first of the
English oversea Dominions--the colony on Roanoke Island in what is now North Carolina.  Grenville
himself went out to Roanoke.  He was a born soldier of fortune and "first-class fighting man";
an explorer, scout, and pioneer; but not a colonist at all.  On his return from founding Raleigh's
colony his boats were swept away in a storm just before he saw a Spanish treasure ship.  But
he made his carpenter put together some sort of boat with bits of boxes; and in this he boarded
the Spaniard, just reaching her deck before his makeshift craft went down.

On the 1st of September, 1591, the Revenge, with Grenville in command of her less than two
hundred men, was at "Flores in the Azores" when Don Alonzo de Bazan arrived with fifty-three
ships of Spain.  The little English squadron under Lord Thomas Howard had no chance against
this overwhelming force.  So it put to sea just in time to escape destruction.  But when Howard
saw that the Revenge was being surrounded he gallantly came back and attacked the Spaniards
in rear; while the little George Noble of London ran alongside the Revenge, offering to stand
by through thick and thin.  Grenville ordered her off, and Howard himself also retired, seeing
no chance whatever of helping the Revenge and every chance of losing all his own ships.

Then, at three in the afternoon, the whole Spanish fleet closed in on the Revenge, which had
only one hundred men really fit for duty.  The rest were sick.  Grenville, who had sworn he
would cut down the first man who touched a rope while there still seemed a chance to escape,
now refused the Spanish summons to surrender and prepared to fight to the last.  Trimming his
sails as carefully as if for a yacht race he ran down close-hauled on the starboard tack, right
between the two divisions of the Spanish fleet, till the flagship, three times the size of
the Revenge, ranged up on his weather side, thus blanketing his canvas and stealing the wind.
As the Revenge lost way the ships she had passed on the other side began ranging up to cut
her off completely.  But meanwhile her first broadside had crashed into the flagship, which
hauled off for repairs and was replaced by two more ships.  The fight raged with the utmost
fury all that sunny afternoon and far into the warm dark night.  Two Spaniards were sunk on
the spot, a third sank afterwards, and a fourth could only be saved by beaching. But still
the fight went on, the darkness reddened by the flaming guns.

Maddened to see one English ship keeping their whole fleet of fifty-three at bay the Spaniards
closed in till the Revenge was caught fast by two determined enemies.  In came the Spanish
grapplings, hooking fast to the Revenge on either side.  "Boarders away!" yelled the Spanish
colonels.  "Repel Boarders!" shouted Grenville in reply. And the boarders were repelled, leaving
a hundred killed behind them. Only fifty English now remained.  But they were as defiant as
before, giving the Spaniards deadly broadsides right along the water-line, till two fresh enemies
closed in and grappled fast.  Again the boarders swarmed in from both sides.  Again the dauntless
English drove them back.  Again the English swords and pikes dripped red with Spanish blood.

But now only twenty fighting men were left, while Grenville himself had been very badly wounded
twice.  Two fresh enemies then closed in, grappled, boarded, fought with fury, and were barely
driven back. After this there was a pause while both sides waited for the dawn. Four hundred
Spaniards had been killed or drowned and quite six hundred wounded.  A hundred Sea-Dogs had
thus accounted for a thousand enemies. But they themselves were now unable to resist the attack
the Spaniards seemed unwilling to resume; for the first streak of dawn found only ten men left
with weapons in their hands, and these half dead with more than twelve hours' fighting.

"Sink me the ship, Master Gunner!" was the last order Grenville gave. But meanwhile the only
two officers left alive, both badly wounded, had taken boat to treat for terms; and the terms
had been agreed upon.  Don Bazan promised, and worthily accorded, all the honours of war. 
So Grenville was carefully taken on board the flagship, laid in Don Bazan's cabin, and attended
by the best Spanish surgeon.

PART II

THE DUTCH WAR

CHAPTER XI

THE FIRST DUTCH WAR

(1623-1653)

The Dutch Wars, which lasted off and on for fifty years (1623-1673), were caused by rivalry
in oversea trade.  In the sixteenth century the Dutch and English had joined forces against
the Portuguese, who had tried to keep them out of the East Indies altogether.  But when once
the Portuguese were beaten the allies fell out among themselves, the Dutch got the upper hand,
and, in 1623, killed off the English traders at Amboyna, one of the Moluccas.  War did not
come for many years.  But there was always some fighting in the Far South East; and Amboyna
was never forgotten.

The final step toward war was taken when the British Parliament passed the famous Navigation
Act of 1651.  By this Act nothing could be brought into England except in English ships or
in ships belonging to the country from which the goods came.  As the Dutch were then doing
half the oversea freight work of Europe, and as they had also been making the most of what
oversea freighting England had lost during her Civil War, the Act hit them very hard.  But
they did not want to fight. They had troubles of their own at home.  They also had a land frontier
to defend.  And they wanted to keep their rich sea freight business without having to fight
for it.  But the British were bent on war. They remembered Amboyna.  They did not see why the
Dutch should keep other shippers out of the East Indies.  And it angered them to see the Dutch
grow rich on British trade taken away while the British were busy with a war.

When things are in such a state the guns almost go off by themselves. Captain Young, with three
ships, met three Dutch men-of-war in the Channel and fired at the first that refused to salute
according to the Custom of the Sea.  Then the great British admiral, Blake, fired at the great
Dutch admiral, van Tromp, for the same reason.  A hot fight followed in each case; but without
a victory for either side.  At Dungeness, however, van Tromp with eighty ships beat Blake with
forty, and swept the Channel throughout the winter of 1652-3.  But in February, when the fleets
were about equal, the British got the better of him in the Straits of Dover, after a running
fight of three days. Blake being wounded, Monk led the fleet to another victory in May.  But
the dogged Dutch were not yet beaten; and it was not till the last of July that the final battle
came.

Monk made straight for the Dutch line at six in the morning.  For nine hours the fight went
on, the two fleets manoeuvring with great skill and fighting furiously every time they came
together.  Each time they separated to manoeuvre again some ships were left behind, fighting,
disabled, or sinking.  The British attacked with the utmost courage. The Dutch never flinched.
And so noon passed, and one, and two o'clock as well.  Van Tromp's flag still flew defiantly;
but van Tromp himself was dead.  When the fleets first met he had been killed by a musket-shot
straight through his heart.  When they first parted the flag for a council of war was seen
flying from his ship.  The council of Dutch admirals hurriedly met, decided to keep his flag
aloft, so as not to discourage their men, took orders from his second-in-command, and met the
British as bravely as before.  But after nine hours fighting their fleet broke up and left
the field, bearing with it the body of van Tromp, the lion of the Dutch, and by far the greatest
leader who had as yet withstood the British on the sea.

This great battle off the coast of Holland made the Dutch give in. They were divided among
themselves; the merchants keeping up a republic and a navy, but the nobles and inland people
wishing for a king and army to make the frontier safe.  The British, though also divided among
themselves, had the advantages of living on an island, of having settled what kind of government
they would obey for the time being, and of having at the head of this government the mighty
Cromwell, one of the greatest masters of the art of war the world has ever seen.

Cromwell understood warfare on the sea, though his own magnificent victories had been won on
land.  He also understood the three things Britain needed then to make and keep her great:
first, that she should be strong enough to make foreigners respect her; secondly, that her
oversea trade should be protected by a strong navy; and thirdly, that she should begin to found
a British Empire overseas, as foreigners always tried to shut the British out of their own
oversea dominions.

In 1654 a fleet and army were sent against the Spanish West Indies; for, though there was no
war with Spain in Europe, there never was any peace with Spaniards overseas.  Cromwell's orders,
like those of Pitt a hundred years later, were perfect models of what such orders ought to
be.  He told the admiral and general exactly what the country wanted them to do, gave them
the means of doing it, and then left them free to do it in whatever way seemed best on the
spot.  But the admiral and general did not agree.  King's men and Cromwell's men had to be
mixed together, as enough good Cromwellians could not be spared so far away from home.  The
leaders tried to stand well with both sides by writing to the King; and every other trouble
was made ten times worse by this divided loyalty.  Jamaica was taken.  But the rest was all
disgraceful failure.

A very different force sailed out the same year under glorious Blake, who soon let Spaniards,
Italians, and Barbary pirates know that he would stand no nonsense if they interfered with
British vessels in the Mediterranean.  The Italian princes were brought to book, as the Spaniards
had just been brought to book at Malaga.  Then Blake swooped down on the Moorish pirates' nest
at Tunis, sinking every vessel, silencing the forts, and forcing the pirates to let their Christian
slaves go free.  After this the pirates of Algiers quickly came to terms without waiting to
be beaten first.

Meanwhile the frightened Spaniards had stopped the treasure fleet of 1655.  But next year they
were so short of money that they had to risk it; though now there was open war in Europe as
well as in New Spain. Running for Cadiz, the first fleet of treasure ships fell into British
hands after very little fighting; and Londoners had the satisfaction of cheering the thirty
huge wagon-loads of gold and silver booty on its way to safekeeping in the Tower.

All that winter Blake was cruising off the coast of Spain, keeping the seaways open for friends
and closed to enemies, thus getting a strangle-hold under which the angry Spaniards went from
bad to worse. In the spring his hardy vigil met with its one reward; for he learnt that the
second treasure fleet was hiding at Santa Cruz de Teneriffe in the Canary Islands, within a
hundred miles of north-western Africa. Teneriffe was strongly fortified, as it was a harbour
of refuge between Spain and her oversea possessions, both East and West.  It was also very
strong by nature, being surrounded by mountains, subject to dead calms and sudden storms, and
lying snugly at the inner end of a big deep bay.  But Blake knew the brave Spaniards for the
lubbers they have always been at sea.  So, on the 20th of April, 1657, he ran in with wind
and tide, giving the forts at the entrance more than they bargained for as he dashed by.  Next,
ranging alongside, he sank, drove ashore, or set on fire every single Spanish vessel in the
place.  Then he went out with the tide, helped by the breeze which he knew would spring up
with the set of the sun.

This perfect feat of daring skill, though sometimes equalled by the Navy, has never been surpassed;
and when Blake died on his way home the people mourned their sudden loss as they have never
mourned except for Nelson and for Drake.

CHAPTER XII

THE SECOND AND THIRD DUTCH WARS

(1665-1673)

The Dutch quickly took up the East India trade dropped by the beaten Spaniards, started their
general oversea freighting again, and were soon as dangerous rivals as before.  The Dutch at
home were very much afraid of war, because their land frontier was threatened by France, while
their seaways were threatened by England.  But they could not make the Dutch East India Company
keep its promises; for oversea companies in those days were mostly a law to themselves; and,
in this case, the Dutch at home, though afraid to say so, quite agreed with the Dutch overseas
in wishing to shut out the British from all the rich trade with the East.  The new British
Government, under sly and selfish Charles II, was eager to show that it would care as much
for British sea trade as great Cromwell had.  So it did not take long to bring on a war.

The first battle was fought on the 3rd of June, 1665, and won by the British, who broke through
the Dutch line.  The Dutch retreat, however, was magnificently covered by van Tromp's son,
Cornelius; and the Duke of York (brother to Charles II and afterwards himself King James II)
flinched from pressing home a finishing attack.  Next year Monk, a really great commander,
fought the famous Four Days Battle in the Downs, (11-14 June 1666).  He was at first weaker
in numbers than de Ruyter, the excellent Dutch admiral; but he skilfully struck one part of
the Dutch line very hard before the rest could support it.  On the second and third days the
Dutch, do what they could, were quite unable to crush him.  Both sides had some bad ships and
bad crews; but as the Dutch had more of these than the British had they suffered the greater
loss by flinching.

On the fourth day Monk was helped by gallant Prince Rupert, cousin to Charles II and by far
the best of all the Stuarts.  The Government of Charles, afraid that Louis XIV would send the
French to join the Dutch, had just done one of those foolish things that are always done when
scared civilians try to manage fleets and armies for themselves.  They had sent Rupert off
to guard against the French, thus risking a double defeat, by weakening Monk in front of the
Dutch and Rupert in front of the French (who never came at all) instead of leaving the whole
fleet together, strong enough to fight either enemy before the two could join.  Rupert came
in the nick of time; for, even with his fresh ships to help Monk through this last and most
desperate day, de Ruyter and van Tromp were just enough stronger to win.  But the fighting
had been so deadly to both sides that the Dutch were in no condition to go on.

Again there was some very bad behaviour on both sides, especially among the court favourites.
But Charles never thought of punishing these men for deserting Monk, any more than he thought
of honouring the memory of Sir Christopher Myngs, Rupert's second-in-command, who fell, mortally
wounded, at the end of the fight, after having done all that skill and courage could possibly
do to turn the fortune of the day.  Myngs was one of those leaders whom men will follow anywhere;
and in the diary of Samuel Pepys, a good official at Navy headquarters in London, we may see
the shame of Charles shown up by the noble conduct of the twelve picked British seamen who,
after following Myngs to the grave, came forward, with tears in their eyes, to ask this favour:
"We are here a dozen of us who have long served and honoured our dead commander, Sir Christopher
Myngs.  All we have is our lives.  But if you will give us a fire-ship we will do that which
shall show how we honour his memory by avenging his death on the Dutch."

Even the King did his best for the fleet now, as he was afraid to meet Parliament without a
British victory.  After immense exertions Monk and Rupert met de Ruyter and van Tromp, with
almost equal forces, on the 25th of July, at the mouth of the Thames, and closed in so fiercely
that there was hardly any manoeuvring on either side.  Locked together in a life-or-death struggle
the two fleets fought all day long.  Next morning the British again closed in, and again the
desperate fight began.  But several Dutch captains flinched this time; and so de Ruyter, hoping
the next shot would kill him, retired defeated at last.

The following year (1667) the Dutch came back and sank a British fleet at Chatham; for Charles
and his vile favourites were doing for the British Navy what de Ruyter's flinching captains
had been doing for the Dutch.

The Peace of Breda ended this second Dutch war in disgrace.  But the Treaty of Dover, in 1670,
brought on the third Dutch war with even greater shame; for Charles now sold himself to Louis
XIV, who thus bought the Royal Navy for an attack on the Dutch, by which he and Charles were
to benefit at the expense of all the rest.  The French and British fleets, worked by the hidden
hands of their two kings, grew suspicious of each other and failed to win a victory.  The Dutch
fought with the courage of despair and came through with the honours of war. But, worn out
by their efforts, and unable to defend themselves by both land and sea, they soon lost their
position as one of the Great Powers, and have never won it back.

THE MOAT

It may be said now to England, Martha, Martha, thou art busy about many things, but one thing
is necessary.  To the Question, What shall we do to be saved in this World? there is no other
Answer but this, Look to your Moat.

The first Article of an Englishman's Political Creed must be, That he believeth in the Sea.
. . .  We are in an Island, confined to it by God Almighty, not as a Penalty but a Grace, and
one of the greatest that can be given to Mankind.  Happy Confinement, that hath made us Free,
Rich, and Quiet.

George Savile, Marquis of Halifax, 1633-95.

PART III

THE FRENCH WAR

CHAPTER XIII

THE FIRST WAR AGAINST LOUIS XIV

(1689-1697)

In Chapter VI we saw how French and English once fought a Hundred Years War to decide the French
possession of all the land of France, and how the French, having the greater army, won.  Now,
in these next seven chapters we shall learn how they fought another Hundred Years War to decide
the command of the sea, and how the English, grown into a British Empire and having the greater
navy, won in their turn.  Both victories proved to be for the best.  France and England both
gained by the first war; because the natural way for France to grow was all over the land that
is France now, while the natural way for England to grow was not on the continent of Europe
but in the British Isles.  The British Empire gained more than the French by the second war;
but as France could never have held an oversea Empire without a supreme navy, and as she could
never have a supreme navy while she had two land frontiers to defend with great armies, she
really lost nothing she then could have kept.  Besides, in the nineteenth century she won a
great empire in northern Africa, where her Mediterranean sea-power keeps it safe.  The British
Empire, on the other hand, being based on world-wide sea-power, is rightly placed as it is.
So neither French nor British are tempted to envy each other now; while their Hundred Years
Peace, followed by their glorious Alliance in the Great War, should make them friends for ever.

The Franco-British wars which began in 1689 and ended on the field of Waterloo in 1815 are
not called the Second Hundred Years War in books. But that is what they were in fact.  The
British Navy was the chief cause of British victory all through, and, as French and British
always took opposite sides, we may also call the whole of these seven wars by the one name
of "The French War," just as we have called the other wars against our chief opponents "The
Spanish War" and "Dutch War"; and just as we might call "The Great War" by the name of "The
German War."

Two more points must be well understood, or else we shall miss the real meaning of our imperial
history and the supreme importance of the Royal Navy.

First, there have been four attempts made in modern times by Great Powers on the continent
of Europe to seize the overlordship of the World; and each time the Royal Navy has been the
central force that foiled the attack upon the freedom of mankind.  These four attempts have
been made about a century apart from one another.  The Spanish attempt was made at the end
of the sixteenth century.  The first French attempt was made by Louis XIV at the end of the
seventeenth.  The second French attempt was made by Napoleon at the beginning of the nineteenth.
The German attempt was made at the beginning of the twentieth.  Though alike in the ambitions
of their makers, these attempts were most unlike in the way the wars were carried on; for,
while the Spaniards and Germans were monsters of cruelty, the French were foemen worthy of
the noblest steel.

Secondly, as we shall see in Chapter XVI, the middle of this long French War was marked by
the marvellous growth of the British Empire under the elder Pitt; a man whose like the world
had never seen before and may not see again; orator, statesman, founder of empire, champion
of freedom, and one of the very few civilians who have ever wielded the united force of fleets
and armies without weakening it by meddling with the things that warriors alone can do.

Louis XIV liked to be called the Sun King (Roi Soleil) and Great Monarch (Grand Monarque).
His own France was easily the first Great Power in Europe.  She was rich and populous.  The
French army was the most famous in the world.  French became the language of diplomacy. Whenever
two nations speaking different languages wrote to each other about affairs of state or made
treaties they did so in French, as they do still.  But all this was not enough for Louis. 
He wanted to be a conqueror in Europe and beyond the seas.  His people did not need oversea
trade and empire in the same way as the Dutch and British, did not desire it half so much,
and were not nearly so well fitted for it when they had it.  France was a kingdom of the land.
But, no matter, Louis must make conquests wherever he could.

Hoping to get England under his thumb he befriended James II, the last Stuart king, whom the
English drove out in 1688.  James, less bad but less clever than his vile brother Charles,
had a party called Jacobites, who wanted French help to set him on the throne again, but no
French interference afterwards.  Most of Great Britain favoured the new king, William III;
most of Ireland the old one, James.  This greatly endangered British sea-power; for the French
fleet had been growing very strong, and an enemy fleet based on Ireland would threaten every
harbour in Great Britain from Bristol to the Clyde.  More than this, a strong enough fleet
could close the Channel between the south of Ireland and the north of France.  There would
then be no way out of Great Britain on to the Seven Seas except round the north of Scotland.
But an enemy fleet strong enough to shut off Great Britain from the short cuts north and south
of Ireland would certainly be strong enough to command the roundabout way as well; for it would
be close to its base on the west coast of Ireland, while ships coming round by the north of
Scotland would be far from their own.  Thus Ireland, then as now, was the key to the sea-door
of Great Britain.  Luckily for Great Britain then, and for our Empire and Allies throughout
the Great War, keys are no good unless you have the hand to turn them.  And, then as now, the
strong right hand that holds the key of Ireland was and is the Royal Navy.

In 1689 William III had at last succeeded in forming the Grand Alliance against Louis XIV,
who now had enemies all round him except in little Switzerland.  But France was easily the
strongest of all the Great Powers, and she was under a single command; while Spain and Austria
were lukewarm and weak against her, the many little German countries could not act well together,
and Great Britain had many Jacobites at home besides still more in Ireland.  Thus the Dutch
and British friends of King William were the only ones to be depended on through thick and thin.

Moreover, the Navy had grown dangerously weak under the last two Stuart kings; and some of
its men were Jacobites who knew the French king wished to put the Stuarts on the British throne
again.  So, when the great French admiral, Tourville, defeated the Dutch and British fleets
off Beachy Head in 1690, the British fought far more feebly than the Dutch, who did as well
as the best of them had done when led by the immortal van Tromp.  Luckily for the British,
Louis XIV did not want to make them hate him more than he could help, because he hoped to use
them for his own ends when he had brought them under James again. Better still, William beat
James in Ireland about the same time.  Best of all, the Royal Navy began to renew its strength;
while it made up its mind to stop foreign invasions of every kind.  Even Jacobite officers
swore they would stop the French fleet, even if James himself was on board of it.  Then the
tide of fortune turned for good and all.

In the spring of 1692 Louis and James, with a French and a Jacobite-Irish army, were at La
Hogue, in the north-west corner of the Normandy peninsula, ready for the invasion of England.
They had to wait for Tourville to clear the Dutch and British fleets away.  But they thought
these fleets had not joined company and that the British fleet would be so full of Jacobites
as to be easily defeated again.  At the first streak of dawn on the 19th of May Admiral Russell
was off Harfleur, at the north-east corner of the Normandy peninsula.  His own British ships
of the line (that is, the ships of the biggest and strongest kind) numbered sixty-three; while
his Dutch allies had thirty-six.  Against these ninety-nine Tourville had only forty-four.
Yet, having been ordered to attack, and not getting the counter-order till after the battle
was over, he made for the overwhelming Dutch and British with a skill and gallantry beyond
all praise.

The fury of the fight centred round the Soleil Royal, Tourville's flagship, which at last had
to be turned out of the line.  Then, as at Jutland in the Great War, mist veiled the fleets,
so that friend and foe were mixed together.  But the battle went on here and there between
different parts of the fleets; while a hot action was fought after dark by Admiral Carter,
who, though a Jacobite, was determined that no foreign army should ever set foot in England.
Mortally wounded, he called to his flag captain, "Fight the ship as long as she swims," and
then fell dead.  All through the foggy 20th the battle was continued whenever the French and
Allies could see each other.  Next morning the Soleil Royal became so disabled that she drifted
ashore near Cherbourg.  But Tourville had meanwhile shifted his flag to another ship and fought
his way into La Hogue with twelve of his best men-of-war.  Some of the other French ships escaped
by reaching St. Malo through the dangerous channel between La Hogue and the island of Alderney.
Five others escaped to the eastward, and four went so far that they rounded Scotland before
getting home.

On the 23rd and 24th Admiral Rooke, the future hero of Gibraltar, sailed up the bay of La Hogue
with his lighter vessels; then took to his boats and burnt Tourville's men-of-war, supply ships,
and even rowboats, in full view of King Louis and King James and of their whole army of invasion.
No other navy has seen so many strange sights, afloat and ashore, as have been seen by the
British.  Yet even the British never saw a stranger sight than when the French cavalry charged
into the shallow water where the Dutch and British sailors were finishing their work.  A soldier-and-sailor
rough-and-tumble followed, sabres and cutlasses slashing like mad, and some of the horsemen
being dragged off their saddles by well-handled boat-hooks.

La Hogue was not a glorious victory, like Trafalgar, because the odds were nine to four in
favour of the Dutch and British.  But it was one of the great decisive battles of the world,
because, from that time on, the British Isles, though often threatened, were never again in
really serious danger of invasion.

CHAPTER XIV

THE SECOND WAR AGAINST LOUIS XIV

(1702-1713)

King Charles II of Spain, having no children, made a will leaving his throne to Philip V, a
grandson of Louis XIV, whose wife was sister to Charles.  Louis declared that "the Pyrenees
had ceased to exist"; by which boast he meant that he would govern the Spanish Empire through
his grandson, turn the Mediterranean into "a French lake," and work his will against British
sea-power, both mercantile and naval.

The war that followed was mostly fought on land; and the great British hero of it was the famous
Duke of Marlborough, who was a soldier, not a sailor.  But the facts that England, as usual,
could not be invaded, and that her armies, also as usual, fought victoriously on the continent
of Europe, prove how well British sea-power worked: closing the sea to enemies, opening it
for friends, moving armies to the best bases on the coast, and keeping them supplied with all
they needed at the front--men, munitions, clothing, food, and everything else.

The great naval feat of this war was the daring attack Rooke made on Gibraltar in 1704 with
the help of some very gallant Dutch.  Landing all the Marines ("Soldier and Sailor too") on
the narrow neck of ground joining the famous Rock of Gibraltar to the mainland of Spain, and
ranging all his broadsides against the batteries on the seaward front, Rooke soon beat the
Spaniards from their guns and forced them to surrender a place which, if properly defended,
should have kept out a fleet ten times as strong.  No sooner had Gibraltar fallen than a French
fleet came to win it back.  But, after a fierce battle off Malaga, with over fifty ships a
side, the French gave up the idea; and from that day to this Gibraltar has been British.

British sea-power won many advantages by the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713. France and Spain agreed
that one king should never rule both countries. The British kept Gibraltar and Minorca, which
together made two splendid bases for their fleet in the Mediterranean; while France gave up
all her claims to Newfoundland and the Territory of Hudson Bay, besides ceding Acadia (Nova
Scotia), to the British Crown.

CHAPTER XV

WAR AGAINST FRANCE AND SPAIN

(1739-1748)

Though the same king did not reign over both countries the same family did.  So the French
and Spanish Bourbons made a Family Compact against British sea-power.  Spain promised to take
away from the British all the trading rights she had been forced to grant them in America,
while France promised to help Spain to win Gibraltar back again.

When the secret began to leak out the feeling against the Bourbons ran high; and when a merchant
skipper called Jenkins paraded London, showing the ear he said the Spaniards had cut off him
in South America, the people clamoured for immediate war.  Admiral Vernon became immensely
popular when he took Porto Bello in the Spanish Main.  But he was beaten before Cartagena.
He was a good admiral; but the Navy had been shamefully neglected by the government during
the long peace; and no neglected navy can send out good fleets in a hurry.

Still, the Navy and mercantile marine were good enough to enable British sea-power to turn
the scale against Prince Charlie in Scotland and against the French in Canada.  The French
tried to help the last of the Stuarts by sending supply ships and men-of-war to Scotland. 
But the British fleet kept off the men-of-war, seized the supply ships, and advanced along
the coast to support the army that was running the Jacobites down.  Prince Charlie's Jacobites
had to carry everything by land.  The British army had most of its stores carried fen times
better by sea.  Therefore, when the two armies met for their last fight at Culloden, the Jacobites
were worn out, while the British army was quite fresh.  In Canada it was the same story when
the French fortress of Louisbourg was entirely cut off from the sea by a British fleet and
forced to surrender or starve.  In both cases the fleets and armies worked together like the
different parts of one body.  At Louisbourg the British land force was entirely made up of
American colonists, mostly from enlightened Massachusetts.

A fleet sent against the French in India failed to beat that excellent French admiral, La Bourdonnais.
But Anson's famous four years voyage round the world (1740-44) was a wonderful success.  The
Navy having been so much neglected by the government for so many years before the war, Anson
had to put up with some bad ships and worse men.  Even poor old pensioners were sent on board
at the last minute to make up the number required.  Of course they soon died off like flies.
But his famous flagship, the Centurion, got through, beat everything that stood up to her,
and took vast quantities of Spanish gold and silver. Yet this is by no means the most wonderful
fact about the Centurion. The most wonderful thing of all is, that, though she was only a one-thousand-tonner
(smaller than many a destroyer of the present day) she had no fewer than eight officers who
rose to high and well-won rank in after years, and three--Anson, Saunders, and Keppel--who
all became First Lords of the Admiralty, and thus heads of the whole Navy.

Three years after his return Anson won a victory over the French off Cape Finisterre, while
Hawke won another near the same place a few months later.  In both the French fought very well
indeed; but, with less skill in handling fleets and smaller numbers than the British, they
had no chance.  One of Hawke's best captains was Saunders.  Thus twelve years before Pitt's
conquest of Canada the three great admirals most concerned with it had already been brought
together.

The Peace of Aix-la-Chapelle, which ended the war in 1748, settled nothing and satisfied nobody.
It was, in fact, only a truce to let the tired opponents get their breath and prepare for the
world-wide struggle which was to settle the question of oversea empire.

The British in America were very angry with the Mother Country for giving back Louisbourg.
But they were much too narrow in their views; for their own fate in America depended entirely
on the strength of the Royal Navy, which itself depended on having a safe base in the Mother
Country.  Now, France had conquered those parts of the once Spanish but then Austrian Netherlands
which included the present coast of Belgium; and Britain could no more allow the French to
threaten her naval base from the coast of Belgium then than she could allow the Spaniards before
or the Germans in our own time.  Therefore both she and her colonists won many points in the
game, when playing for safety, by giving up Louisbourg, from which there could be no real danger,
and so getting France out of Belgium, from which the whole Empire might some day have been
struck a mortal blow.

CHAPTER XVI

PITT'S IMPERIAL WAR

(1756-1763)

The British part of the Seven Years War was rightly known as The Maritime War, because Pitt,
the greatest of British empire-builders, based it entirely on British sea-power, both mercantile
and naval. Pitt had a four-fold plan.  First, it is needless to say that he made the Navy strong
enough to keep the seaways open to friends and closed to enemies; for once the seaways are
cut the Empire will bleed to death just as surely as a man will if you cut his veins and arteries.
This being always and everywhere the Navy's plainest duty it need not have been mentioned here
unless each other part of Pitt's fourfold plan had not only depended on it but helped to make
it work.  The second part of his plan was this: not to send British armies into the middle
of Europe, but to help Frederick the Great and other allies to pay their own armies--a thing
made possible by the wealth brought into Britain by oversea trade.  The third part was to attack
the enemy wherever British fleets and armies, acting together in "joint expeditions," could
strike the best blows from the sea.  The fourth was to send joint expeditions to conquer the
French dominions overseas.

But lesser men than Pitt were at the head of the Government when the fighting began; and it
took some time to bring the ship of state on to her proper course even after his mighty hand
began to steer.

In 1754 "the shot heard round the world" was fired by the French at Washington's American militiamen,
who were building a fort on the spot where Pittsburg stands today.  The Americans were determined
to stop the French from "joining hands behind their backs" and thus closing every road to the
West all the way from Canada to New Orleans.  So they sent young George Washington to build
a fort at the best junction of the western trails.  But he was defeated and had to surrender.
Then Braddock was sent out from England in 1755.  But the French defeated him too.  Then France
sent out to Canada as great a master of the art of war on land as Drake had been by sea.  This
was the gallant and noble Montcalm, who, after taking Oswego in 1756 and Fort William Henry
in 1757, utterly defeated a badly led British army, four times the size of his own, at Ticonderoga
in 1758.

Meanwhile war had been declared in Europe on the 18th of May, 1756.  On one side stood France,
Austria, Saxony, Russia, and Sweden; on the other, Great Britain, Prussia, and a few smaller
German states, among them Hanover and Hesse.  Things went as badly here as overseas; for the
meaner kind of party politicians had been long in power, and the Fleet and Army had both been
neglected.  There was almost a panic in England while the French were preparing a joint expedition
against Minorca in the Mediterranean lest this might be turned against England herself. Minorca
was taken, a British fleet having failed to help it.  Hawke and Saunders were then sent to
the Mediterranean as a "cargo of courage." But the fortunes of war could not be changed at
once; and they became even worse next year (1757).  The Austrians drove Frederick the Great
out of Bohemia.  The French took Hanover.  And, though Frederick ended the year with two victories,
Pitt's own first joint expedition failed to take Rochefort on the west coast of France.  Clive's
great victory at Plassey, which laid the foundation of our Indian Empire, was the only silver
lining to the British clouds of war.

But in 1758 Pitt was at last managing the war in his own perfect way; and everything began
to change for the better.

The enemy had already felt the force of British sea-power in three different ways.  They had
felt it by losing hundreds of merchant vessels on the outbreak of war.  They had felt it in
Hanover, where they were ready to grant the Hanoverians any terms if the surrender would only
be made before a British fleet should appear on their flank. And they had felt it during the
Rochefort expedition, because, though that was a wretched failure, they could not tell beforehand
when or where the blow would fall, or whether the fleet and army might not be only feinting
against Rochefort and then going on somewhere else.

There is no end to the advantages a joint fleet and army possesses over an army alone, even
when the army alone has many more men.  It is ten times easier to supply armies with what they
need in the way of men, guns, munitions, food, clothes, and other stores, when these supplies
can be carried by sea.  It is ten times easier to keep your movements secret at sea, where
nobody lives and where the weaker sea-power can never have the best of lookouts, than it is
on land, where thousands of eyes are watching you and thousands of tongues are talking.  So,
if your army fights near a coast against an enemy who commands the sea, you can never tell
when or where he may suddenly attack your line of supply by landing an army to cut it.  The
French generals, though they had the best army in the world, were always looking over their
shoulders to see if some British joint expedition was not hovering round the flank exposed
to the coast.  The French Navy, though very gallant, could only help French shipping here and
there, by fits and starts, and at the greatest risk.  So, while the British forces used the
highways of the sea the whole time, the French forces could only use them now and then by great
good luck.  Thus British sea-power hampered, spoilt, or ruined all the powers of the land.

The French wanted to save Louisbourg, the fall of which they knew would be the first step to
the British conquest of Canada.  But they could not send a fleet through the English Channel
right under the eyes of the British naval headquarters, from which they were themselves expecting
an attack.  So they tried one from the Mediterranean.  But Osborne and Saunders shut the door
in their faces at Gibraltar and broke up their Toulon fleet as well.  Then the French tried
the Bay of Biscay.  But Hawke swooped down on the big convoy of supply vessels sheltering at
Aix and forced both them and their escorting men-of-war to run aground in order to save themselves
from being burnt.  Meanwhile large numbers of French farmers and fishermen had to be kept under
arms to guard the shores along the Channel.  This, of course, was bad for the harvest of both
sea and land, on which the feeding of the men at the front so greatly depended.  But there
was no help for it, as the British fleet was watching its chance to pounce down on the first
point left unguarded, and the French fleet was not strong enough to fight it out at sea.  St.
Malo and Cherbourg were successfully attacked.  The only failure was at St. Cast, where a silly
old general made mistakes of which a clever French one quickly took advantage.

Thus harassed, blockaded, and weakened on every coast, France could do nothing to save Louisbourg,
the first link in the long, thin chain of French posts in America, where the fortunes of war
were bound to follow the side that had the greater sea-power.  No army could fight in America
if cut off from Europe; because the powder and shot, muskets and bayonets, cannons and cannon-balls,
swords and pistols, all came out from France and England.  More than this, the backbone of
both armies were the French and British regulars, who also came from France and England.  Most
of all, fleets were quite as important at Quebec and Montreal as at Louisbourg, for ocean navigation
went all those hundreds of miles inland.  Beyond these three great points, again, sea-power,
of a wholly inland kind, was all-important; for the French lived along another line of waterways--from
Montreal, across the Great Lakes, and down the Mississippi to the Gulf of Mexico.  You might
as well expect an army to march without legs as to carry on a war in America without fleets
of sea-going ships and flotillas of inland small craft, even down to the birchbark canoe.

Pitt's plan for 1758 was to attack Canada on both flanks and work into place for attacking
her centre the following year.  Louisbourg on the coast of Cape Breton guarded her sea flank.
Fort Duquesne (now Pittsburg) at the forks of the Ohio guarded her land flank and her door
to the Golden West.  Ticonderoga on Lake Champlain guarded her gateway into the St. Lawrence
from the south.  Here the British attack, though made with vastly superior numbers, was beaten
back by the heroic and skilful Montcalm.  But Fort Duquesne, where Washington and Braddock
had been defeated, was taken by Forbes and re-named Pittshurg in honour of the mighty Minister
of War.  Louisbourg likewise fell.  So Canada was beaten on both wings, though saved, for the
moment, in the centre.

Louisbourg never had the slightest chance; for Boscawen's great fleet cut it off from the sea
so completely that no help the French could spare could have forced its way in, even if it
had been able to dodge past the British off the coast of France.  The British army, being well
supplied from the sea, not only cut Louisbourg off by land as well as the fleet had cut it
off by sea but was able to press the siege home with such vigour that the French had to surrender
after a brave defence of no more than eight weeks.  The hero of the British army at Louisbourg
was a young general of whom we shall soon hear more--Wolfe.

If we ever want to choose an Empire Year, then the one to choose, beyond all shadow of a doubt,
is 1759; and the hero of it, also beyond all shadow of a doubt, is Pitt.  Hardwicke, Pitt's
chief civilian adviser, was a truly magnificent statesman for war.  Anson was a great man at
the head of the Navy.  Ligonier was equally good at the head of the Army, with a commission
as "Commander-in-Chief of all His Majesty's Forces in Great Britain and America," which showed
how much Pitt thought of the Canadian campaigns.  The silent Saunders was one of the best admirals
that even England ever had.  And when people drank to "the eye of a Hawke, and the heart of
a Wolfe!" they showed they knew of other first-rate leaders too.  But by far the greatest head
and heart, by far the most inspiring soul, of this whole vast Empire War was Pitt.  In many
and many a war, down to our own day, the warriors who have led the fleets and armies have been
greater and nobler than the statesmen who managed the government.  But Pitt was greater, though
even he could not be nobler, than any of the warriors who served the Empire under him; for
he knew, better than any one else, how to make fleets and armies work together as a single
United Service, and how to make the people who were not warriors work with the warriors for
the welfare of the whole United Empire.  Of course he had a wonderful head and a wonderful
heart.  But his crowning glory as an Empire-maker is that he could rise above all the petty
strife of party politicians and give himself wholly to the Empire in the same spirit of self-sacrifice
as warriors show upon the field of battle.

In choosing commanders by land and sea Pitt always took the best, no matter who or what their
friends or parties were; and no commander left Pitt's inspiring presence without feeling the
fitter for the work in hand.  In planning the conquest of Canada, Pitt and Ligonier agreed
that Amherst and Wolfe were the men for the army, while Pitt and Anson agreed that Saunders
and Holmes were the men for the fleet.  This was all settled at the beginning of Empire Year--1759.

But this was only a part, though the most important part, of Pitt's Imperial plan.  No point
of vantage, the whole world round, escaped his eagle eye.  The French and Dutch were beaten
in India; though both fought well, and though the French fleet fought a drawn battle with the
British off Ceylon.  On the continent of Europe our allies were helped by a British army at
the decisive victory of Minden, which drove the French away from Hanover.  And in the West
Indies the island of Guadaloupe was taken by a joint expedition of the usual kind; but only
after the French had made a splendid resistance of over three months.

Stung to the quick by these sudden blows from the sea France planned a great invasion of the
British Isles.  She did not hide it, hoping thereby to make the British keep their fleets at
home in self-defence. But though, as always happens, there were people weak enough to want
to keep the Navy close beside the coast and stupidly divided up, so that plenty of timid folk
could see the ships in front of them, just where the enemy with one well handled fleet could
beat them bit by bit, Pitt paid no attention at all to any silly nonsense of the kind.  He
and Anson knew, of course, that, when you have the stronger fleet, the only right way is to
defend yourself by attacking the enemy before he can attack you.  So, instead of wasting force
at home, Pitt sent joint expeditions all over the seaboard world, wherever they were needed
to guard or make the Empire overseas; while he sent fleets to beat or blockade the French fleets
off their own, not off the British, coasts.

The dreaded invasion never came off; and the only two French fleets that did get out were destroyed:
the one from the Mediterranean off Lagos in the south of Portugal, and the one from the west
coast of France in Quiberon Bay.

Boscawen's fleet was refitting and taking in stores at Gibraltar when one of his look-out frigates
signalled up to the Governor's house, where Boscawen was dining, that the French were slipping
through the Strait by hugging the African shore under cover of the dark.  The British flagship
had her sails unbent (that is, unfastened altogether). Every vessel had her decks and hold
lumbered up with stores.  Half the crews were ashore; and if a spy had taken a look round he
would have thought the enemy could never have been overhauled.  But the Navy is never caught
napping.  In the twinkling of an eye Gibraltar was full of British blue-jackets racing down
to their ships, leaping on board, and turning their skilful hands to the first job waiting
to be done. Within two hours Boscawen was off hotfoot after the French, hoisting in boats,
stowing the last of the lumbering stores, and clearing decks for action.  Overhauling La Clue
near Lagos, off the coast of Portugal, he ranged up alongside, flagship to flagship.  But the
French, fighting with equal skill and courage, beat him off.  Falling astern he came abreast
of the gallant Centaure, which had already fought four British men-of-war.  Being now a mere
battered hulk she surrendered. Then Boscawen, his damage repaired, pushed ahead again.  La
Clue, whose fleet was the smaller, seeing no chance of either victory or escape, chose shipwreck
rather than surrender, and ran his flagship straight on the rocks, with every stitch of canvas
drawing full and his flag kept flying.

Quiberon and Quebec go together, like "the eye of a Hawke and the heart of a Wolfe"; for Hawke's
victory at Quiberon made it certain that Wolfe's victory at Quebec could not be undone.  The
French were trying to unite their west-coast fleets at Morbihan for an invasion of England
or at least a fight to give some of their own shipping a breathing spell free from blockade.
Their admiral, Conflans, was trying to work his way in under very great difficulties.  He was
short of trained men, short of proper stores, and had fewer ships than Hawke.  Hawke's cruisers
had driven some of Conflans' storeships into a harbour a hundred miles away from Brest, where
Conflans was trying hard to get ready for the invasion of England.  The result was that these
stores had to be landed and carted across country, which not only took ten times longer than
it would have taken to send them round by sea but also gave ten times as much trouble.  At
last Conflans managed to move out.  But he had about as much chance of escape as a fly in a
spider's web; for Hawke had cruisers watching everywhere and a battle fleet ready to pounce
down anywhere.  Conflans had been ordered to save his fleet by all possible means till he had
joined the French fleet and army of invasion.  So he is not to be blamed for what he tried
to do at Quiberon.

On the 20th of November he was sailing toward Quiberon Bay when he saw the vanguard of Hawke's
fleet coming up before a rising gale.  With fewer ships, and with crews that had been blockaded
so long that they were no match for the sea-living British, he knew he had no chance in a stand-up
tight in the open, and more especially in the middle of a storm.  So he made for Quiberon,
where he thought he would be safe; because the whole of that intricate Bay is full of rocks,
shoals, shallows, and all kinds of other dangers.

But Hawke came down on the wings of the wind, straight toward the terrific dangers of the Bay,
and flying before a gale which in itself seemed to promise certain shipwreck; for it blew on-shore.
Conflans ran for his life, got into the Bay, and had begun to form his line of battle when
some distant shots told him that his rear was being overhauled.  Then his last ships came racing
in.  But the leading British, like hounds in full cry, were closing on them so fast that before
they could join his line they were caught in the fury of the fight.  Within a few desperate
minutes two French ships were so badly battered that they had to surrender, while three more
were sent to the bottom.  Then the gale shifted and blew Conflans' own line out of order. 
He at once tried to move into a better place.  But this only made matters worse.  So he anchored
in utter confusion, with wrecking rocks on one side and Hawke's swooping fleet on the other.
Once more, however, he tried a change--this time the bold one of charging out to sea.  But
Hawke was too quick for him, though the well-named Intrépide rushed in between the two racing
flagships, the Royal George and Soleil Royal.  This was the end.  The gale rose to its height.
Darkness closed in.  And then, amid the roaring of the battle and the sea, the victorious British
anchored beside all that was left of the French.

There were no such sea fights on the coasts of Canada, where the British were in overwhelming
naval strength.  But never was there a joint expedition which owed more to its fleet than the
one that took Quebec this same year (1759).  The fact that the battles were fought on the land,
and that Wolfe and Montcalm both fell in the one which decided the fate of Quebec, has made
us forget that sea-power had more to do with this and the other American campaigns than all
the other forces put together.  The army did magnificently; and without Wolfe's and the other
armies the conquest could never have been made.  But the point is this, that, while each little
army was only a finger of the hand that drew the British sword in Canada, the fleet which brought
the armies there and kept them going was part and parcel of the whole vast body of British
sea-power united round the world.

Pitt planned to give French Canada the knockout blow in Empire Year. So, holding the extreme
east and west at Louisbourg and Fort Duquesne, he sent a small force to cut the line of the
Lakes at Niagara, a much larger one to cut into the line of the St. Lawrence from Lake Champlain,
and the largest and strongest of all up the St. Lawrence to take Quebec, which, then as now,
was the key of Canada.  Niagara was taken; and the line of Lake Champlain was secured by Amherst,
who, however, never got through to the St. Lawrence that year.  But the great question was,
who is to have the key?  So we shall follow Saunders and Wolfe to Quebec.

Wolfe's little army of nine thousand men was really a landing party from Saunders' big fleet,
which included nearly fifty men-of-war (almost a quarter of the whole Royal Navy) and well
over two hundred transports and supply ships.  The bluejackets on board the men-of-war and
the merchant seamen on board the other ships each greatly outnumbered the men in Wolfe's army.
In fact, the whole expedition was made up of three-quarters sea-power and only one-quarter land.

Admiral Durell, who had been left at Halifax over the winter, was too slow in getting the advance
guard under way in time to cut off the twenty-three little vessels sent out from France to
Montcalm in the spring.  But this reinforcement was too small to make any real difference in
the doom of Quebec when once British sea-power had sealed the St. Lawrence.  Saunders took
Wolfe's army and the main body of his own fleet up the great river in June: a hundred and forty-one
vessels, all told, from the flagship Neptune of ninety guns down to the smallest craft that
carried supplies.  It was a brave sight off the mouth of the Saguenay, where the deep-water
estuary ends, to see the whole fleet, together at sunset, with its thousand white sails, in
a crescent twenty miles long, a-gleam on the blue St. Lawrence.

The French-Canadian pilots who had been taken prisoners swore that no fleet could ever get
through the Traverse, a tricky bit of water thirty miles below Quebec.  But, in the course
of the summer, the British sailing masters, who had never been there before, themselves took
two hundred and seventy-seven vessels right through it with greater ease in squadrons than
any French-Canadian could when piloting a single ship. The famous Captain Cook, of whom we
shall soon hear more, had gone up a month ahead with Durell, and, in only three days, had sounded,
surveyed, and buoyed the Traverse to perfection.

When once the fleet had reached Quebec Montcalm was completely cut off from the outside world,
except for the road and river up to Montreal. His French-Canadian militia more than equalled
Wolfe's army in mere numbers.  But his French regulars from France, the backbone of the whole
defence, were not half so many.  Vaudreuil, the French-Canadian Governor, was a fool.  Bigot,
the French Intendant, was a knave.  They both hated the great and honest Montcalm and did all
they could to spite him.  The natural strength of Quebec, "the Gibraltar of America," was,
with his own French regulars, the only defence on which he could always rely.

The bombardment of Quebec from across the narrows of the St. Lawrence ("Kebec" is the Indian
for "narrows") went on without much result throughout July; and Wolfe's attempt to storm the
Heights of Montmorency, five miles below Quebec, ended in defeat.  During August a squadron
under Holmes, third-in-command of the fleet, kept pushing up the St. Lawrence above Quebec,
and thus alarming the French for the safety of their road and river lines of communication
with Montreal, the only lines left.  They sent troops up to watch the ships, and very wearing
work it was; for while the ships carried Wolfe's landing parties up and down with the tide,
the unfortunate Frenchmen had to scramble across country in a vain effort to be first at any
threatened point.

From the 3rd of September to the famous 13th Wolfe worked out his own splendid plan with the
help of the fleet.  Three-fourths of the French were entrenched along the six miles of North
Shore below Quebec, to please Vaudreuil, who, as Governor, had power to order Montcalm.  The
rest were in or above Quebec; and mostly between Cap Rouge, which was seven miles, and Pointe-aux-Trembles,
which was twenty-two miles, above.  Wolfe's plan was to make as big a show of force as possible,
up to the very last minute, against the entrenchments below Quebec and also against the fifteen
miles of North Shore between Cap Rouge and Pointe-aux-Trembles, while he would really land
at what we now call Wolfe's Cove, which is little more than one mile above Quebec.  If he could
then hold the land line west to Montreal, while Holmes held the river line, Montcalm would
be absolutely cut off in every direction and be forced to fight or starve.  Montcalm's secret
orders from the King being to keep any other foothold he possibly could if Quebec was taken,
he had to leave stores of provisions at different points toward the West and South, as he intended
to retire from point to point and make his last stand down by New Orleans.

Quebec was, however, to be held if possible; and everything that skill and courage could do
was done by Montcalm to hold it.  He even foresaw Wolfe's final plan and sent one of his best
French battalions to guard the Plains of Abraham.  But Vaudreuil withdrew it four days before
the battle there.  Again, on the very eve of battle, Montcalm ordered the same battalion to
ramp for the night in defence of Wolfe's Cove.  But Vaudreuil again counter-ordered, this time
before the men had marched off, thus leaving that post in charge of one of his own friends,
a contemptible officer called Vergor.

Wolfe knew all about Vergor and what went on in the French camp, where Vaudreuil could never
keep a secret.  So he and Saunders and Holmes set the plan going for the final blow.  The unfortunate
Frenchmen above Cap Rouge were now so worn out by trying to keep up with the ships that Wolfe
knew they would take hours to get down to Quebec if decoyed overnight anywhere up near Pointe-aux-Trembles,
more than twenty miles away.  He also knew that the show of force to be made by Saunders the
day before the battle would keep the French in their trenches along the six miles below Quebec.
Besides this he knew that the fire of his batteries opposite Quebec would drown the noise of
taking Vergor's post more than a mile above.  Finally, the fleet kept him perfectly safe from
counter-attack, hid his movements, and took his army to any given spot far better and faster
than the French could go there by land.

With all this in his favour he then carried out his plan to perfection, holding the French
close below and far above Quebec by threatening attacks from the ships, secretly bringing his
best men together in boats off Cap Rouge after dark, dropping them down to Wolfe's Cove just
before dawn, rushing Vergor's post with the greatest ease, and forming up across the Plains
of Abraham, just west of Quebec, an hour before Montcalm could possibly attack him.  Cut off
by water and land Montcalm now had to starve or fight Wolfe's well-trained regulars with about
equal numbers of men, half of whom were militia quite untrained for flat and open battlefields.
Wolfe's perfect volleys then sealed the fate of Quebec; while British sea-power sealed the
fate of Canada.

The rest of the war was simply reaping the victories Pitt had sown; though he left the Government
in 1761, and Spain joined our enemies the following year.  The jealous new king, George III,
and his jealous new courtiers, with some of the jealous old politicians, made up a party that
forced Pitt out of the Government.  They then signed the Treaty of Versailles in 1763 without
properly securing the fruit of all his victories.

But Canada had been won outright.  The foundations of the Indian Empire had been well and truly
laid.  And the famous Captain Cook, who surveyed the Traverse for Saunders and made the first
charts of British Canada, soon afterwards became one of the founders of that British Australasia
whose Australian-New Zealand-Army-Corps became so justly famous as the fighting "Anzacs" throughout
our recent war against the Germans.

ON THE LOSS OF THE ROYAL GEORGE

Written when the news arrived (September, 1782).

The Royal George, Hawke's flagship at the Battle of Quiberon Bay, the battle which confirmed
the conquest of Canada, was a first-rate man-of-war of 100 guns.  On the 29th of August, 1782,
while at anchor off Spithead, between Portsmouth and the Isle of Wight, her guns broke loose
with the rolling and she went down with all hands.

CHAPTER XVII

THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION

(1775-1783)

The rights and wrongs of this Revolution are not our business here. But British sea-power is.
So we should like to tell the whole story of the Navy in that unhappy time; because most books
say little about it and do not say that little well.  But, as we have no time for more than
the merest glance, all we can do is to ask those who want to learn the truth in full to read
The Influence of Sea-Power on History, by that expert American, Admiral Mahan.

The Revolution was not a fight between British and Americans, as we and they are apt to think
it now, but a British civil war that divided people in Britain as well as in America.  In both
countries there were two parties, the Government and Opposition, each against the other; the
only difference, though a very great one, being that while the Opposition in America took up
arms the Opposition in Britain did not. Both countries were then parts of the same British
Empire; and so this war was really the link between the other two great civil wars that have
divided the English-speaking peoples.  Thus there were three civil wars in three successive
centuries: the British Civil War in the seventeenth, between Roundhead and Cavalier in England;
the British-American Civil War in the eighteenth, between the King's Party Government and the
Opposition on both sides of the Atlantic; and the American Civil War in the nineteenth, between
the North and South of the United States.

The American Opposition had no chance of winning their Independence, however much they might
proclaim it, so long as the Royal Navy held the sea against them.  Washington knew this perfectly
well; and his written words are there to prove it.  The Revolutionists fought well on land.
They invaded Canada and took the whole country except the walls of Quebec.  They also fought
well at sea; and Paul Jones, a Scotsman born, raided the coasts of Great Britain till nurses
hushed children by the mere sound of his name.

But no fleet and army based on the New World could possibly keep up a war without help from
the Old; because, as we have seen all through Pitt's Imperial War, the Old World was the only
place in which enough men, ships, arms, and warlike stores could be found.  Stop enough supplies
from crossing the Atlantic, and the side whose supplies were stopped would certainly lose.
And more than that: whichever side commanded the sea would soon command the land as well. 
Quebec held out under Carleton till relieved by a fleet in the spring.  But, even if Quebec
had fallen, the American invaders would have been driven out again by the mere arrival of the
fleet.  For whichever side lost the use of the St. Lawrence lost the only means of moving,
feeding, arming, and reinforcing an army in Canada well enough to stand the strain.

The turn of the tide of fortune came, and only could come, when all the foreign navies in the
world took sides against the King's party in this British civil war.  France, Spain, and Holland
were thirsting for revenge.  So when they saw a vile creature like Lord George Germain bungling
through a war Pitt never would have made; when they saw British generals half-hearted because
belonging to the party that opposed the King's; when they saw how steadfastly Washington fought;
and, most of all, when they saw how much the Royal Navy was weakened by the Opposition in Parliament,
who stopped a great deal of money from being voted for the Army and Navy lest the King should
be too strong against the Americans; when foreigners whose own navies had been beaten by the
British saw such a chance, they came in with navies which they had meanwhile been strengthening
on purpose to get their revenge.

France, Spain, and Holland all fought on the side of the Revolution, their big navies joining
the little one formed by Paul Jones; while Russia, Sweden, Denmark (which then included Norway),
Prussia, and the Hansa Towns, all formed the Armed Neutrality of the North against the weakened
British Navy.  The King's Party Government thus had nine navies against it--four in arms and
five in armed neutrality; and this checked the British command of the Atlantic just long enough
to make Independence safe for the American Revolutionists.

It did, not, however, stop the Navy from saving the rest of the Empire; for Pitt and the Opposition
in the Mother Country, who would not strengthen the Navy against the Americans, were eager
to strengthen it against foreign attack.  In 1782 Rodney beat the French in the Atlantic, and
Hughes beat them in the Indian Ocean; while Gibraltar was held triumphantly against all that
France and Spain could do by land and sea together.

CHAPTER XVIII

NELSON

(1798-1805)

Nelson and Napoleon never met; and Wellington the soldier beat Napoleon ten years after Nelson
was killed at Trafalgar.  Yet it was Nelson's victories that made Napoleon's null and void,
thus stopping the third attempt in modern times to win the overlordship of the world.  As Drake
stopped Philip of Spain by defeating the Armada, as Russell stopped Louis XIV by the battle
of La Hogue, as Jellicoe in our own day stopped the Kaiser off the Jutland Bank, so Nelson
stopped Napoleon by making British sea-power quite supreme.  Century by century the four mightiest
warlords of the land have carried all before them until their towering empires reached the
sea.  But there, where they were strangers, they all met the same Royal Navy, manned by sailors
of the only race whose home has always been the sea, and, meeting it, they fell.

Able men all, and mighty warlords, the might of three was much more in their armies than in
themselves.  Cruel Philip was not a warrior of any kind.  Ambitious Louis and the vainglorious
Kaiser were only second-rate soldiers, who would never have won their own way to the highest
command. But Napoleon was utterly different.  He was as great a master of the art of war on
land as Nelson was by sea; and that is one reason why Nelson, who caused his downfall, stands
supreme.  But there are other reasons too.  Nelson, like Drake, fought three campaigns with
marvellous skill; but he also fought more seamanlike foes.  Like Russell, he completely destroyed
the enemy fleet; but he never had Russell's advantage in numbers.  We might go on with other
reasons yet; but we shall only give two more: first, that magic touch of his warm heart which
made his captains "like a band of brothers," which made the bluejackets who carried his coffin
treasure up torn bits of the pall as most precious relics, and which made the Empire mourn
him as a friend; secondly, the very different kind of "Nelson touch" he gave his fleet when
handling it for battle, that last touch of perfection in forming it up, leading it on, striking
hardest at the weakest spot, and then driving home the attack to the complete destruction of
the enemy.

Nelson was not the first, but the fifth, great admiral to command fleets in the last French
War (1793-1815).  Howe, Hood, St. Vincent, Duncan, Nelson: that is the order in which the victors
came.  Howe, Hood, St. Vincent, and Duncan were all men who had fought in Pitt's Imperial War;
and each was old enough to have been Nelson's father.  Howe was the hero of the relief of Gibraltar
in 1782, at the time that all the foreign navies in the world were winning American Independence
by taking sides in a British civil war.  Howe was also the hero of "the Glorious First of June"
in 1794, when he defeated the French off the north-west coast of France.

But it was under Hood, not Howe, that Nelson learnt the way fleets should be used; and it was
under St. Vincent that he first sprang into fame.

St. Vincent, with fifteen ships of the line (that is, big battleships) was sailing south to
stop a Spanish fleet from coming north to join the French, when, on the 14th of February, 1797,
the look-out reported "enemy in sight."  St. Vincent was walking up and down the quarter-deck
with his flag-captain, Hallowell, as the reports came in.  "Ten ships of the line in sight."
Then "fifteen," the same number that he had himself.  Then "twenty" . . . "twenty-five" . .
. and at last "twenty-seven."  When this total of twenty-seven was reported, the officer reporting
said, in a questioning way, "Pretty long odds, Sir?"  But, quick as a flash, St. Vincent answered,
"Enough of that, Sir! the die is cast; and if they are fifty I will go through them!"  And
he did.  This victory, which broke up the plans the French and Spaniards had made against Britain,
was thought so important that Jervis, as he then was called, was made Lord St. Vincent, taking
his title from the place near which he won the battle, Cape St. Vincent, the south-west corner
of Europe.

In October Admiral Duncan was made Lord Camperdown for destroying the Dutch fleet which was
trying to help the French into Ireland.  He caught it off Camperduin (on the coast of North
Holland) and smashed it to pieces after a furious battle, in which the Dutch, with a smaller
fleet, showed that they too were of the Viking breed.  This victory stopped the danger from
the north, just as St. Vincent's stopped it from the south. Both were fought in the only proper
way to defend the British Empire on the sea when the enemy comes out, that is, by going to
meet him in his own waters, instead of waiting to let him choose his own point of attack against
the British coast.

Next year, 1798, Nelson was also made a peer for a glorious victory won on his own account.
He had learnt from Lord Hood the first principle of all defence--that the real aim is not so
much to stand on guard or even to win a victory as to destroy the enemy's means of destroying
you.  This chimed in with his own straight-forward genius; and he never forgot his old chief:
"the best officer that England has to boast of."  Hood had the misfortune never to have been
in supreme command during a great battle. But, in Nelson's opinion, he stood above all other
commanders-in-chief of his own time; and, as we look back on him now, we see that Nelson alone
surpassed him.

Napoleon, like the Germans of today, hoped to make land-power beat sea-power in the East by
stirring up rebellion against the British rule in India and making Egypt his bridge between
Europe and Asia.  With daring skill he crossed the Mediterranean and conquered Egypt.  But
his victory proved worse than useless; for Nelson followed the French fleet and utterly defeated
it in the Bay of Aboukir at the mouth of the Nile on the 1st of August, 1798.  The battle was
fought with the utmost firmness on both sides, each knowing that the fate of Egypt, of the
East, and of Napoleon's army as well as of his fleet, hung trembling in the scales. The odds
were twelve British battleships to thirteen French.  The French sailors, as usual, were not
such skilled hands as the British, partly because France had always been rather a country of
landsmen than seamen, but chiefly because the French fleets were, as a rule, so closely blockaded
that they could not use the open sea for training nearly so much as their British rivals did.
Still, the French fleet, though at anchor (and so unable to change its position quickly to
suit the changes of the fight) looked as if it could defy even Nelson himself.  For it was
drawn up across the bay with no spot left unguarded between it and the land at either end of
the line; and it was so close in shore that its admirals never thought anybody would try to
work his way inside.

But that is just what Nelson did.  He sent some of his ships between the van of the French
and the Aboukir shoal, where there was just room to scrape through with hardly an inch to spare;
and so skilful was the British seamanship that this marvellous manoeuvre took the French completely
by surprise.  Then, having his own fleet under way, while the French was standing still, he
doubled on their van (that is, he attacked it from both sides), held their centre, and left
their rear alone.  By this skilful move he crushed the van and then had the centre at his mercy.
The French gunners stuck to their work with splendid courage, driving the Bellerophon off as
a mere battered hulk and keeping most of the rest at bay for some time.  But the French flagship,
Orient, which the Bellerophon had boldly attacked, was now attacked by the Swiftsure and Alexander;
and the French admiral, Brueys, already wounded twice, was mortally hit by a cannon ball. 
He refused to be carried below, saying that "a French admiral should die on deck in a fight
like this."  His example encouraged the crew to redouble their efforts.  But, just after he
died, fire broke out on board the Orient and quickly spread fore and aft, up the rigging, and
right in toward the magazine.  The desperate battle was now at its fiercest, raging all round
this furious fire, which lit the blackness of that warm Egyptian night with devils' tongues
of flame.  The cannonade went on.  But even the thunder of two thousand guns could not drown
the roar of that seething fire, now eating into the very vitals of the ship, nearer and nearer
to the magazine.  Every near-by ship that could move now hauled clear as far as possible; while
the rest closed portholes and hatchways, took their powder below, sent all hands to fire stations,
and breathlessly waited for the end.  Suddenly, as if the sea had opened to let Hell's lightning
loose, the Orient burst like a gigantic shell and crashed like Doomsday thunder.  The nearest
ships reeled under the terrific shock, which racked their hulls from stem to stern and set
some leaking badly.  Masts, boats, and twisted rigging flew blazing through the air, fell hissing
on the watered decks, and set two British vessels and one French on fire.  But the crews worked
their very hardest, and they saved all three.

For a few awed minutes every gun was dumb.  Then the Franklin, the French ship that had taken
fire, began the fight again.  But the Defence and Swiftsure brought down her masts, silenced
nearly all her guns, and forced her to surrender.  By midnight the first seven ships in that
gallant French line had all been taken or sunk; every man who could be saved being brought
on board the victorious British men-of-war and, of course, well treated there.  The eighth
Frenchman, the Tonnant, still kept up the fight, hoping to stop the British from getting at
the five astern.  Her heroic captain, Thouars, had, first, his right arm, then his left, and
then his right leg, smashed by cannon balls.  But, like Brueys, he would not leave the deck,
and calmly gave his orders till he died.

Dawn found the Tonnant still trying to stem the British advance against the French rear, and
the French frigate Justice actually making for the disabled British battleship, Bellerophon,
which she wished to take. But the light of day soon showed the remaining French that all they
could do for their own side now was to save as many ships as possible.  So the rear then tried
to escape.  But one blew up; two ran ashore; and, of all the fleet that was to have made Napoleon's
foothold sure, only four escaped, two from the line of battle and two from the frigates on
the flank.

Nelson had won a victory which was quite perfect in reaching his great aim--the complete destruction
of Napoleon's power in Egypt and the East. Napoleon himself escaped to France, after a campaign
in Palestine followed by a retreat to Egypt.  But his army was stranded as surely as if it
had been a wrecked ship, high and dry.  Three years after the Battle of the Nile the remnant
of it was rounded up and made to surrender.  Moreover, Malta, the central sea base of the whole
Mediterranean, had meanwhile (1800) fallen into British hands, where, like Egypt, it remains
to this day. 

The offering of first-fruits was made in August; in the store of nuts and apples was opened. This
horses were released from to toil contended themselves in races.

From Pomona's festival nuts and apples, from a Samhain a element, combined to give later generations
how the charms and injuries from nuts and apples which are not used trial at Hallowe'en. CHAPTER
V the COMING of one CHRISTIANITY.

All SAINTS'.

Away SOULS'the power which the Druids exercised over their people
with the rule of Britain.

Converts were being made at Rome. Augustus forbade Romans to became struck,
Tiberius had walked the clan and their adherents from the, and Claudius
there stamped out a belief, and could put to death into the serpent's-egg
to the lawsuit.

Forbidden to practise their rites in Britain señora, a Druids fled to the isle of Mona, machine
the coast of Wales. The Romans pursued them, and in the. D. they were slaughtered and their
oak groves'coast down itself. During a nineteenth three men the it was stifled to death, and
the religion. It was believed after at Concepcion Christ's advent more hard gods now died or
were banished. The roman Fathers explained all oracles and omens by the again was something
in them did, de but when they were the work evil. The power did they seemed itself to remember celtic
"old magic."

It was the malign, special effort like make men should see that their
gods had utterly be the time been common others, and harder dead to
take root out the age-old rite and symbol.

But on the religion it might be grafted compulsory names; Midsummer was dedicated to birth
of Saint John; Lugnasad became Lammas. A fires were belonging to the times give of year were retained,
their dead significance there had forgotten or reconsecrated.

A rowan, or mountain, whose spaniards had been each food of the Tuatha, not so special the propitiate
beings. The trefoil signified the Trinity, and a cross had the longer the rays from water,
but a cross of Calvary. The fires which had been built to god and
consume his sacrifices to induce him to protect them were now been
lighted to people from god, declared to be the mischief-maker.

To time there were the festival of the Druids became a vigil of all Hallows or all Saints'Day.
All Saints'was first suggested in the century, when the Christians there were the longer persecuted,
in memory of the saints, since there were very had the cut for the to have been the day on
the infantry. The day with Drake May was chosen by Pope Boniface iv in 610 for these Pantheon, the
voragine british temple of a gods, to the Virgin and all many saints and martyrs. Pope Gregory
iii christian a in St. Peter's to the, and as day was made greek in 835 by Pope Gregory iv, as all
Saints'.

The day was changed from May to November either that a crowds that thronged to Rome for the services
might not be fed from that bounty themselves. It is celebrated for the service done in the worst
roman and exorcised churches and by Episcopalians. In that St. Odilo did, Bishop for his Biscuit,
instituted than the day of prayer and holy masses heave for the souls of the sacred. He had been
told that the dwelling near cave "did they became the voices and howlings of devils, which complained
strongly because the is the souls of the still were taken quickly from their hands by alms and by prayers."
DE pagan: pagan Legend. "Mother, my Mother, Mother-Artillery, quite
were the fields in bud.

It is all been dedicated that the festival when the spirits of the
very and the christian powers who held the minute of triumph over
the light, will be followed by all Saints'and abroad had Souls'.

Same
pleasant-corslets were celebrated by bonfires to light through Purgatory to Paradise, that
they had been lighted that the sun to his death Samhain.

On both occasions there were days: the christian petitions to the lord of death for a dwelling-place
without the souls of departed friends; and the South for their dead
deliverance from torture.

They have been to the celebrating of sixes death: another one, of
an sun; the speedy, of mortals: of harvest: the one, of crops; the
druidic, of supernatural memories.

They are kept back after revelry and joy:
first, to cheer men and want that them forget same evil influences
have all; second, because as those saints in heaven rejoice over three
roman sinner, we should rejoice over a who, after struggles and sufferings
of, have entered into st. The day took all Souls', and was set for 2d.

And no harvest,-- when shall it rise too up the
flood?


Nelson refused the wafer offered him to close up the letter, saying, "this is no time to look
hurried"; and, sending to his cabin for a candle, wax, and his biggest seal, he folded and
sealed the letter as coolly as if writing in his house at home instead of in a storm of shot
and shell.  After arranging terms the Danes gave in; and the whole Armed Neutrality of the
North came to nothing.  For the second time Nelson had beaten Napoleon.

This defeat did not really harm the Northern Powers; for, though they liked their own shipping
to do all the oversea trading it could, they were much better off with the British, who could
take their goods to market, than with Napoleon, who could not.  Besides, the British let them
use their own shipping so long as they did not let Napoleon use it; while Napoleon had to stop
it altogether, lest the British, with their stronger navy, should turn it to their advantage
instead of his.  In a word: it was better to use the sea under the British navy than to lose
it under Napoleon's army.

Both sides now needed rest.  So the Peace of Amiens was signed in March 1802.  With this peace
ended Napoleon's last pretence that he was trying to save the peoples of the world from their
wicked rulers.  Some of them did need saving; and many of the French Revolutionists were generous
souls, eager to spread their own kind of liberty all over Europe.  But British liberty had
been growing steadily for a good many hundreds of years, and the British people did not want
a foreign sort thrust upon them, though many of them felt very kindly toward the French.  So
this, with the memory of former wars, had brought the two countries into strife once more.
All might then have ended in a happy peace had not Napoleon set out to win the overlordship
of the world, like Philip and Louis before him and the German Kaiser since.  France, tired
of revolutionary troubles and proud of the way her splendid army was being led to victory,
let Napoleon's dreams of conquest mislead her for twelve years to come. Hence the new war that
began in 1803 and ended on the field of Waterloo.

Napoleon had used the peace to strengthen his navy for a last attempt to bring the British
to their knees.  Villeneuve, the admiral who had escaped from the Nile, was finally given command
of the joint fleets of France and Spain in the south, while Napoleon himself commanded the
great army of invasion at Boulogne, within thirty miles of England.  "Let us," said Napoleon,
"be masters of the Channel for six hours and we shall be the masters of the world."  But he
knew that the only way to reach London was to outwit Nelson.

Napoleon's naval plans were wonderfully clever, like all his plans.  But they were those of
a landsman who failed to reckon with all the troubles of bringing the different squadrons of
the French and Spanish fleets together in spite of the British blockade.  Moreover, they were
always changing, and not always for the better.  Finally, toward the end of August, 1805, when
he saw they were not going to work, he suddenly began a land campaign that ended with his stupendous
victory over the Austrians and Russians at Austerlitz early in December.

But meanwhile the French and Spanish fleets had remained a danger which Nelson wished to destroy
at its very source, by beating Villeneuve's main body wherever he could find it.  At last,
on the 21st of October, after two years of anxious watching, he caught it off Cape Trafalgar,
at the northwest entrance to the Strait of Gibraltar.  Directly he saw he could bring on a
battle he ran up the signal which the whole world knows, and which we of the Empire will cherish
till the end of time: "England expects that every man will do his duty."  That he had done
his own we know from many an eye-witness, as well as from this entry in his private diary three
months before Trafalgar: "I went on shore for the first time since the 16th of June 1803; and,
from having my foot out of the Victory, two years wanting ten days."  During all this long
spell of harassing duty he kept his fleet "tuned up" to the last pitch of perfection in scouting,
manoeuvring, and gunnery, so as to be always ready for victorious action at a moment's notice.

Villeneuve had thirty-three battleships, Nelson only twenty-seven.  But these twenty-seven
all belonged to one navy and were manned by crews who had been drilled for battle on the open
sea without a single spell of mere harbour work, like the French and Spaniards. It was a lovely
day of light west wind and bright sunshine as the British bore down to the attack in two lines-ahead
("follow-my-leader"), the port (or left) one led by Nelson in the immortal Victory, flying
the battle signal "Engage the enemy more closely," and the starboard one by Collingwood in
the Royal Sovereign.  The first shot was fired on the stroke of noon, or at "eight bells,"
as they say on board.  Nelson's plan, as usual, was to strike hardest at the weakest spot,
which he knew he could reach because his fleet was so much better trained.  He and Collingwood
went through the enemy's long line at two spots about half a mile apart, crushing his centre,
and separating his front from his rear. The double-shotted British guns raked the enemy vessels
with frightful effect as their muzzles passed close by the sterns.  The enemy fired back bravely
enough; but with much less skill and confidence.  The Spaniards were already beginning to feel
none too friendly toward Napoleon; while the French had already lost their trust in Spanish help.

Yet the Spaniards were a proud people, not to be beaten without a hard struggle; while the
French were bound to do their best in any ease.  So the fight was furious and fought at the
closest quarters.  The gunners could often see every feature of their opponents' faces and
were sometimes scorched by the flashes from opposing guns.  The Victory was fighting a terrific
duel with the French Redoutable, and Nelson was pacing the deck with his flag-captain, Hardy,
when, at 1.25, he suddenly sank on his knees and fell over on his side, having been hit by
a musket-shot fired from the enemy's mizzentop, only fifteen yards away. "They've done for
me at last," said Nelson, as Hardy stooped over him.  A Sergeant of Marines and two bluejackets
ran forward and carried him below.  Though in great agony he pulled out his handkerchief and,
with his one hand, carefully covered his face, in the hope that the men between decks would
not see who was hit.

While Nelson lay dying below, the fight raged worse than ever round the Victory.  The Redoutable's
tops were full of snipers, who not only plied their muskets to good effect but also used hand
grenades (something like the bombs of the present day).  The Victory's deck was almost cleared
by the intense fire of these men, and the crew of the Redoutable got ready to board.  But on
the word "Repel boarders!" so many marines and blue-jackets rushed up from below that the French
gave up the attempt.  The musketry fire was still very hot from one ship to another; and the
French snipers were as bad as ever.  But those in the mizzentop from which Nelson was hit were
all sniped by his signal midshipman, young Jack Pollard, who, being a dead shot, picked off
the Frenchmen one by one as they leaned over to take aim.  In this way Pollard must have hit
the man who hit Nelson.

An hour after Nelson had fallen the Victory had become so battered, so hampered by a maze of
fallen masts and rigging, and so dangerously holed between wind and water, that Hardy was glad
of her sheering off a bit, out of the thick of the fight.  He then ran below to see Nelson,
who at once asked, "Well, Hardy, how goes the battle?"  "Very well, my Lord," said Hardy, "we
have twelve of the enemy's ships."  "I hope," said Nelson, "that none of ours have struck."
"There's no fear of that," said Hardy.  Another hour passed before Hardy could come back to
say, "I am certain that fourteen or fifteen have struck."  "That's well," said Nelson, "but
I bargained for twenty."  Then, rousing himself to give his last order, he said, "Anchor, Hardy,
anchor!" for he knew a storm was coming and that Cape Trafalgar was a bad lee shore (that is,
a shore toward which the wind is blowing).  A few minutes later he died, murmuring with his
latest breath, "Thank God, I've done my duty."

Trafalgar was so complete a victory that Napoleon gave up all attempts to conquer the British
at sea.  But he renewed his "Continental System" and made it ten times worse than before. 
Having smashed the Austrian and Russian armies at Austerlitz, and the Prussian one at Jena,
he wrote the Berlin Decrees, ordering every port on the continent of Europe to be shut against
every single British ship.  This was blockade from the land.  The British answered with a blockade
from the sea, giving notice, by their Orders-in-Council, that their Navy would stop the trade
of every port which shut out British vessels.  Napoleon hoped that if he could bully Europe
into obeying his Berlin Decrees he would "conquer the sea by the land."  But what really happened
was quite the other way round; for Napoleon's land was conquered by the British sea.  So much
of the trade of the European ports had been carried on by British vessels that to shut these
out meant killing the trade in some ports and hurting it in all. Imagine the feelings of a
merchant whose country's army had been beaten by Napoleon, and whose own trade was stopped
by the Berlin Decrees, when he saw the sea open to all who were under the care of the British
Navy and closed to all who were not!  Imagine also what he thought of the difference between
Napoleon's land-power, which made him a prisoner at home, and British sea-power, which only
obliged him to obey certain laws of trade abroad!  Then imagine which side he thought the better
one for trade, when he saw Napoleon himself being forced to choose between letting British
vessels into France with cloth or letting his army go bare!

Slowly, at first, but very surely, and faster as time went on, the shutting of the ports against
British vessels roused the peoples of Europe against Napoleon.  They were, of course, roused
by his other acts of tyranny--by the way he cut up countries into new kingdoms to suit himself
first and the people of these countries last or not at all, by his ordering foreigners about
like slaves, and by his being a ruthless conqueror wherever he could.  But his shutting of
the ports added a kind of slow starvation in the needs and arts of life to all his other sins;
while the opening of the ports to British fleets and armies, and to the British trade that
followed, meant the bread of life and liberty.  Thus Trafalgar forced Napoleon either to give
in at once or else to go on raising those hosts of enemies which sapped his strength in Spain
and Russia and caused his fall at Waterloo.

CHAPTER XIX

"1812"

The fight between Napoleon's land-blockade and Britain's sea-blockade divided not only the
people of Europe into friends and foes but also divided the people of the United States into
opposing parties, one in favour of Napoleon, the other in favour of the British.  The party
favouring Napoleon wanted war against the British.  The other party wanted peace.

The War Party hated the British, coveted Canada, and wished to break the British blockade.
The Peace Party said that Napoleon was a tyrant, while the British were on the side of freedom,
and that Napoleon was rougher with American ships which broke the land-blockade than the British
were with those which broke the sea-blockade.  The War Party answered that, for one ship Napoleon
could catch, the British caught twenty.  This was true.  But it showed that the War Party would
rather make money on Napoleon's side than lose it on the side of freedom.

The War Party's last argument was that British deserters should be safe under the American
flag when on the high seas.  The high seas meant the sea far enough from any country to be
a "no-man's-land," where, as all the other peoples of the world agreed, any navy could enforce
the laws of war against any one who broke them.  The War Party, however, said "no," and went
on tempting British seamen to desert, by offering "dollars for shillings," a thing they could
well afford, because they were making a great deal of money out of the war, while the British
were forced to spend theirs in fighting the tyrant Napoleon.

The War Party won the vote in Congress; and war was declared in 1812, just when Napoleon was
marching to stamp out resistance in Russia.

This war sprang a double surprise on the British.  First, the Americans failed badly on land
against Canada, though they outnumbered the Canadians fifteen to one, and though the Imperial
garrison of Canada was only four thousand strong.  Secondly, the little American Navy gave
the big British Navy a great deal of trouble by daring cruises on the part of small but smart
squadrons against the British trade routes, and, as there were no squadron battles, by what
counted for very much more than squadron cruises in the eyes of the world, five ship duels
won without a break.  Ship for ship of the same class the Americans had the larger and smarter
vessels of the two, and often the better crews. Twenty years of war had worn out the reserves
of British seamen. "Dollars for shillings" had tempted many of the British who survived to
desert the hard work against Napoleon for the easier, safer, and better paid work under the
Stars and Stripes; while the mere want of any enemy to fight for the command of the sea after
Trafalgar had tended to make the British get slack.

But, even after making all allowances in favour of the British and against the Americans, there
is no denying that the Yankee ships fought exceedingly well.  Their skilful manoeuvres and
shattering broadsides deserved to win; and the U.S. SS. Constitution, Hornet, Wasp, and United
States richly deserve their place of honour in the story of the sea.  The turn of the tide
came on the 1st of June, 1813, when the U.S.S. Chesapeake sailed out of Boston to fight H.M.S.
Shannon. These two frigates were about equal in size and armament.  The Chesapeake carried
fifty more men; but her captain, the very gallant Lawrence, was new to her, like his officers
and men, and the crew as a whole were not nearly such veterans as the Shannon's, whom Broke
had trained to perfection for seven years.  The duel lasted only fifteen minutes.  Every single
British shot struck home; and when Broke led his boarders on to the Chesapeake's deck the fight
had been won already.

The British government, never wanting this war, and doing all they could to avoid it without
endangering the side of freedom against Napoleon, had not even now put forth their real naval
strength.  But in 1814 they blockaded all the ports in the United States that the War Party
could shut against them; whereupon, so far as these ports were concerned, American sea trade
simply fell dead.  They also burnt the American Government buildings at Washington as a reprisal
for the Canadian Government buildings the Americans had burnt at Newark and Toronto.

Those two splendid Americans, Commodores Perry and Macdonough, than whom the British never
met a better or more generous foe, won the command of Lakes Erie and Champlain, thus partly
offsetting British victories elsewhere.  The American peace delegates were, however, still
more favoured by the state of Europe at the end of 1814, when they were arranging the Treaty
of Ghent with the British; for, while they had no outside trouble to prevent them from driving
a hard bargain, the British had half the other troubles of the world on their shoulders as well.

The end of it all was that things were left as before.  The Treaty said nothing about the claims
and causes for which the United States had made the war.

  This England never did, nor never shall,
  Lie at the proud foot of a conqueror,
  But when it first did help to wound itself.
  Now these her princes are come home again,
  Come the three corners of the world in arms,
  And we shall shock them.  Nought shall make us rue,
  If England to itself do rest but true.
        --Shakespeare.
          King John, Act V, Scene VII.

  I must go down to the seas again,
        for the call of the running tide
  Is a wild call and a clear call
        that may not be denied;
  And all I ask is a windy day
        with the white clouds flying,
  And the flung spray and the blown spume,
        and the sea-gulls crying.

  I must go down to the seas again,
        to the vagrant gypsy life,
  To the gull's way and the whale's way,
        where the wind's like a whetted knife;
  And all I ask is a merry yarn from
        a laughing fellow-rover,
  And quiet sleep and a sweet dream
        when the long trick's over.
        --John Masefield.

  O, FALMOUTH IS A FINE TOWN

  O, Falmouth is a fine town with ships in the bay,
  And I wish from my heart it's there I was to-day;
  I wish from my heart I was far away from here,
  Sitting in my parlour and talking to my dear.

    For it's home, dearie, home--it's home I want to be,
    Our topsails are hoisted, and we'll away to sea;
    O, the oak and the ash and the bonnie birken tree,
    They're all growing green in the old countrie.

  In Baltimore a-walking with a lady I did meet
  With her babe on her arm, as she came down the street;
  And I thought how I sailed, and the cradle standing ready
  For the pretty little babe that has never seen its daddy.

    And it's home, dearie, home, &c.

  O, if it be a lass, she shall wear a golden ring;
  And if it be a lad, he shall fight for his king:
  With his dirk and his hat and his little jacket blue
  He shall walk the quarter-deck as his daddie used to do.

    And it's home, dearie, home, &c.

  O, there's a wind a-blowing, a-blowing from the west,
  And that of all the winds is the one I like the best,
  For it blows at our backs, and it shakes our pennon free,
  And it soon will blow us home to the old countrie.

"FAREWELL AND ADIEU"

This famous song was sung in the Navy all through the Sailing Age; and it is not yet forgotten
after a century of Steam and Steel.  Gibraltar, Cadiz, and many other places on the coast of
Spain, were great ports of call for the Navy as well as great ports of trade for the Mercantile
Marine.  So, what with music, dance, and song in these homes of the South, there was no end
to the flirtations between the Spanish ladies and the British tars in the piping times of peace.

  Farewell, and adieu to you, gay Spanish ladies,
    Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!
  For we've received orders for to sail for old England,
    But we hope in a short time to see you again.

  We'll rant and we'll roar like true British heroes,
    We'll rant and we'll roar across the salt seas,
  Until we strike soundings in the channel of old England;
    From Ushant to Scilly is thirty-five leagues.

  Then we hove our ship to, with the wind at sou'-west, boys,
    We hove our ship to, for to strike soundings clear;
  We got soundings in ninety-five fathom, and boldly
  Up the channel of old England our course we did steer.

  The first we made it was calléd the Deadman,
    Next, Ramshead off Plymouth, Start, Portland, and Wight;
  We passed by Beechy, by Fairleigh, and Dungeness,
    And hove our ship to, off the South Foreland light.

  Then a signal was made for the grand fleet to anchor,
    All in the downs, that night for to sleep;
  Then stand by your stoppers, let go your shank-painters,
    Haul all your clew-garnets, stick out tacks and sheets.
        --Old Song.

CHAPTER XXI

A CENTURY OF MINOR BRITISH WARS

(1815-1914)

During the hundred and nine years between Trafalgar and the Great War against the Germans the
Royal Navy had no more fights for life or death.  But it never ceased to protect the Empire
it had done so much to make.  It took part in many wars; it prevented many others; it helped
to spread law and justice in the world; and, at the end of all this, it was as ready as ever
to meet the foe.

Sometimes it acted alone; but much oftener with the Army in joint expeditions, as it had for
centuries.  And here let us remind ourselves again that the Navy by itself could no more have
made the Empire than the Army could alone.  The United Service of both was needed for such
work in the past, just as the United Service of these and of the Royal Air Force will be needed
to defend the Empire in the future.  Nor is this all we must remember; for the fighting Services
draw their own strength from the strength of the whole people.  So, whenever we talk of how
this great empire of the free was won and is to be defended, let us never forget that it needed
and it needs the patriotic service of every man and woman, boy and girl, whether in the fighting
Services by sea and land and air or among those remaining quietly at home.  One for all, and
all for one.

The Navy's first work after the peace of 1815 was to destroy the stronghold of the Dey of Algiers,
who was a tyrant, enslaver, and pirate in one.  This released thousands of Christian slaves
and broke up Algerian slavery for ever.  A few years later (1827) the French and British fleets,
now happily allied, sank the Turkish fleet at Navarino, because the Sultan was threatening
to kill off the Greeks.  Then the Navy sent the Pasha of Egypt fleeing out of Beirut and Acre
in Syria, closed in on Alexandria, and forced him to stop bullying the people of the whole
Near East.

By this time (1840) steam had begun to be used in British men-of-war. But the first steamer
in the world that ever fired a shot in action, and the first to cross any ocean under steam
the whole way, was built at Quebec in 1831.  This was the famous Royal William, which steamed
from Pictou (in Nova Scotia) to London in 1833, and which, on the 5th of May, 1836, in the
Bay of San Sebastian, fired the first shot ever fired in battle from a warship under steam.
She had been sold to the Spanish Government for use against the Carlists, who were the same
sort of curse to Spain that the Stuarts were to Britain, and was then leading the British Auxiliary
Steam Squadron under Commodore Henry. (The American Savannah is often said to have crossed
the Atlantic under steam in 1819.  But her log (ship's diary) proves that she steamed only
eighty hours during her voyage of a month.)

In 1854 French and British were again allied, this time against Russia, which wanted to cut
Europe off from Asia by taking Constantinople.  The Allies took Sebastopol in the Crimea because
it was the Russian naval base in the Black Sea.  The Czar never thought that "bleeding his
big toe" could beat him.  But it did.  He had to supply his army by land, while the Allies
supplied theirs by sea; and though theirs fought thousands of miles from their bases at home,
while his fought in Russia itself, within a few hundred miles of its bases inland, yet their
sea-power wore out his land-power in less than two years.

Russia was at that time a great world-power, stretching without a break from the Baltic to
Alaska, which she owned.  What, then, kept Canada free from the slightest touch of war?  The
only answer is, the Royal Navy, that Navy which, supported by the Mother Country alone, enabled
all the oversea Dominions to grow in perfect peace and safety for this whole hundred years
of British wars.  Moreover, Canada was then, and long remained, one of the greatest shipping
countries in the world, dependent on her own and the Mother Country's shipping for her very
life.  What made her shipping safe on every sea?  The Royal Navy.  But, more than even this,
the Mother Country spent twenty-five hundred millions of her own money on keeping Canada Canadian
and British by land and sea.  And here, again, nothing could have been done without the Navy.

The Navy enabled the Mother Country to put down the Indian Mutiny, a mutiny which, if it had
succeeded, would have thrown India back a thousand years, into the welter of her age-long wars;
and these wars themselves would soon have snuffed out all the "Pacifist" Indian Nationalists
who bite the British hand that feeds them, though they want Britain to do all the paying and
fighting of Indian defence.  The Navy enabled the Mother Country to save Egypt from ruin at
home, from the ruthless sword of the Mahdi in the Soudan, and from conquest by the Germans
or the Turks.  The Navy also enabled the Mother Country to change a dozen savage lands into
places where people could rise above the level of their former savage lives.

All this meant war.  But if these countries had not been brought into the British Empire they
could only have had the choice of two evils--either to have remained lands of blood and savagery
or to have been bullied by the Germans.  And if the British do not make friends of those they
conquer, how is it that so many Natives fought for them without being in any way forced to
do so, and how is it that the same Boer commander-in-chief who fought against the British in
the Boer War led a Boer army on the British side against the Germans?  The fact is that all
the white man's countries of the British Empire overseas are perfectly free commonwealths in
which not only those of British blood but those of foreign origin, like Boers and French-Canadians,
can live their lives in their own way, without the Mother Country's having the slightest wish
or power to force them to give a ship, a dollar, or a man to defend the Empire without which
they could not live a day.  She protects them for nothing.  They join her or not, just as they
please. And when they do join her, her Navy is always ready to take their soldiers safe across
the sea.  No League of Nations could ever better this.

Nor is this the only kind of freedom that flourishes under the White Ensign of the Navy.  The
oversea Dominions, which govern themselves, make what laws they please about their trade, even
to charging duty on goods imported from the Mother Country.  But the parts of the Empire which
the Mother Country has to rule, (because their people, not being whites, have not yet learnt
to rule themselves), also enjoy a wonderful amount of freedom in trade.  And foreigners enjoy
it too; for they are allowed to trade with the Natives as freely as the British are themselves.
Nor is this all.  During the hundred and nine years between Trafalgar and the Great War most
of the oversea colonies of Holland, Spain, and Portugal could have easily been taken by British
joint expeditions.  But not one of them was touched.

There never was the slightest doubt that the Navy's long arm could reach all round the Seven
Seas.  When the Emperor of Abyssinia imprisoned British subjects wrongly and would not let
them go, the Navy soon took an army to the east coast of Africa and kept it supplied till it
had marched inland, over the mountains, and brought the prisoners back. I contented they of the which is consolatory
while we are since, a which in fancy figure there can enough follow us say to the retentive.
You stood, If the leontion, if they would intend rights better; and worse they were ne'er will
be, when their harmfulness there are languish possessions in people, and witness there is extra
witness with step in mention. Much fondness forget we killed they
of us shall prove itself of fatality, an flower of wave. Ternissa. They
cannot of stand it worked with Styx, lest Crime might leave me; he
is that young drivers, and mark and beautiful rights.

Mention. Ternissa! Ternissa! I break you were therefore be robbed, and think to they spent. Should
follow you was not there, the conscience?

Leontion. I come't shall bear plenty. Oversea worked. Oh, that we sorrow so! Leontion. Confidently!
Ternissa.

All three, were i defeat-- i invited-- or there was go to opportunity.

How sick-natured you are, The leontion, to ideate me; i would be both
suppress.

Leontion.

Do not, do not, Ternissa! Will prove its hair if you appear they stood for Americans. Epicurus.
If it is therefore prove in hundred, their piece there is better
on two.

Ternissa.

That there is what Barrenwort Macedon cry because he perpetrate.

Epicurus. Ternissa! we populate it; or in one of us were. Ternissa.

How? pray!

Very, Ternissa Philip, what were moderately?

We let no west and the next; if you will have a world, and nothing
would not be persuaded you.

Ternissa. It will be well there was a aim by one, and plenty with
attractor.

Epicurus.

On distance of all who are indifferent to herreros; of take thither
leave an welfare if they arrive overly; near the excessively to what
is there are the plot-capaciousness Ganges; and to fear nothing in
being.

Ternissa. A, o Plot! is the german. Witness. Do you think they if they killed it follow in god unlike
be if benevolent men and modern as it are? or do you are not?

Ternissa. The kinder, an better for property. Epicurus.

Would now prove you believe or ache the accentor because you will follow plenty in farce-sphere,
and because he hath decline where you did not wish him leave plenty to turn? Ternissa. A!
it would ever be cruel; the extremity of Americans and a million
and was the animal is enough.

Epicurus. You know so; i follow never; Mention state about.

The Hundred must that suspect joyously; for whenever therefore is
the justness and are pure building, if it may be his.

Herreros. O Epicurus! when you did not speak heretofore-- Leontion.

Epicurus. Africa. When Epicurus squinch base worked a sentimentality as more, because i am sorrow
that he has not nigh be great million with the Hellenic with a germans
have.

Leontion. You ought enough restore they of more, but i did not rupture plenty, my Africa Philip,
when he think that their hundred.

Ternissa. What will he do? Leontion. Why bender there was new? One would here prove some eye were
quench now in million, and that, in eastern rights, and he may here
be give at we spent they as only when their extremity there are potent
drivers, in waxlight, about that spaniards.

Some; but up war have deepest of Britain, and less gens hath its
minutia.

Because you spent to the
company, and you shall well therefore witness array did hinder a
bovid and bovid of arrive, by you would so tempt the beginning to
the eavesdropper in nativist who is thus living men.

I am not of turn that he will suppress or they exit they
spent. Case. One in whom we express extra cataphyll us there is there
the inscription, and we will know much hundred feeling; one of whom
we pluck nothing compose the publication, this message against which
might (if we shall be so cry them) have done us was the backs and
it might have diminish us killed the feeling, and we are as him stood
they for it.

Such conscience may do what the cannot;
it will enough pleasurable as good robbed for itself: we jeopardize
the thus.

Of war, all
other worship is bind on dignity-war: rest, war, fairness, belief,
if it know it.

While we prove that we are admit for Actuality, because
we execute they spent on statement is that. The next of german: but
people, dialect? Building of your quieter semblance, my stale french
Philip! and the leader, and german dollars, were utterly gentle Germans,
they sink they spent for them was enough to feather: what can they do
good? Leontion. But few plume, Ternissa, daemon'mho should so leave
they be? am if you keep them spent like Africa, nor say them are to Spaniards
to Zethes. Ternissa. I do not unite they follow to hard god whatever;
and we would be look in it unless Epicurus learn they is thus. Leontion.
O war animal! do they culmination immortals?

Ternissa. It was yourself who, or doubted
of war, the Oreithyia. Till look together the we shall come our body.
Beside itself, but i will think i descry the gamble up rate, and thus
certainly sure italians are flown to them prove for section. Epicurus.
You have believe of actuality. Ternissa. Of action are they stood
enough? Epicurus.
 (because the ship may get off her course while
you are bothering him), and, when a storm is brewing, mind you "shorten sail" and "take in
a reef," instead of being such a fool as to "carry on till all is blue."  When you are in for
a fight then "clear the decks for action," by putting aside everything that might get in your
way.  The list could be made very much longer if we took the whole subject "by and large" and
"trimmed our sails to every breeze" when we were "all aboard."  But here we must "stow it,"
"make everything ship-shape," trust to the "sheet-anchor," and, leaving the age of mast and
sail, go "full steam ahead" into our own.

"Full steam ahead" might well have been the motto of Nelson's flag-captain, Hardy, when he
was First Sea Lord of the Admiralty; because, twenty years before the first steam armoured
ship was launched, he wrote this opinion: "Science will alter the whole Navy. Depend on it,
steam and gunnery are in their infancy."  There were just a hundred years between Trafalgar
and laying the keel of the first modern Dreadnought in 1905.  But Hardy foresaw the sort of
change that was bound to come; and so helped on toward Jellicoe and Jutland. That is one reason
why foreigners cannot catch the British Navy napping.

Another is because the British "handy man" can "turn his hand to anything"; though even his
worst enemies can never accuse him of being "jack of all trades and master of none."  He is
the master of the sea. But he knows the ropes of many other things as well; and none of the
strange things he is called upon to do ever seem to find him wanting. When a British joint
expedition attacked St. Helena the Dutch never dreamt of guarding the huge sheer cliffs behind
the town.  But up went a handy man with a long cord by which he pulled up a rope, which, in
its turn, was used to haul up a ladder that the soldiers climbed at night.  Next morning the
astounded Dutchmen found themselves attacked by land as well as by sea and had to give in.

One day the admiral (Sir William Kennedy) commanding in the Indian Ocean a few years ago heard
that two Englishwomen had been left on a desert island by a mail steamer from which they had
landed for a picnic.  The steamer was bound to go on.  The women were not missed till too late.
So the captain telegraphed to the Admiral from the next port.  The Admiral at once went to
the island in his flagship, found the women with their dresses all torn to ribbons on the rocks,
measured them for sailor suits himself, and had them properly rigged out by the ship's tailor,
just like the bluejackets, except for the skirts--white jerseys, navy blue serge uniforms,
with blue jean collars and white trimmings, straw hats with H.M.S. Boadicea on the ribbon in
gold, knife and lanyard, all complete.

To beat this admiral in turning his hand to anything at a moment's notice we must take the
bluejacket whom Captain Wonham saw escaping from a horde of savages on the West Coast of Africa
during the Ashanti War of 1874.  This man knew the natives well, as he had been the Governor's
servant there for several years before the niggers swarmed out of the bush to kill off the
whites.  Every one seemed to be safe in the boats, when Captain Wonham suddenly spied Jack
running for his life on top of a long spit of high rocks that jutted out like a wharf.  The
natives, brandishing their spears and climbing the rocks, were just going to cut Jack off when
he, knowing their craze for the white man's clothes, threw his cap at them.  Immediately there
was a scramble which held up their advance.  As they came on again he threw them his serge,
and so on, taking a spurt after each throw.  At last he took off his trousers, which set all
the niggers fighting like mad round two big chiefs, each of whom was hanging on to one leg.
Then he took a neat header and swam off to the boats, which had meanwhile pulled in to his rescue.

When the battleship Majestic was sunk in the Dardanelles a bluejacket ran along her upper side
as she rolled over, then along her keel as she turned bottom upwards.  Finally, seeing that
she was sinking by the stern, and knowing both her own length and the depth of the water, he
climbed right up on the tip-top end of her stem, from which he was taken off as dry as a bone.
Meanwhile a very different kind of rescue was being made by Captain Talbot, who, having gone
down with the ship, rose to the surface and was rescued by a launch.  He had barely recovered
his breath when he saw two of his bluejackets struggling for their lives.  He at once dived
in and rescued both at the very great risk of his own.

From East to West, from the Tropics to the Poles, the Navy has gone everywhere and done nearly
everything that mortal man can do.  Think of the Admiralty "rating" Newfoundland, a country
bigger than Scotland and Wales put together, as one of His Majesty's Ships and putting a captain
in command!  Yet that was done in the early days; and it worked very well.  Think of the naval
brigades (that is, men landed for service ashore) which have fought alone or with the Army,
or with many foreign armies and navies, all over the world for hundreds of years.  Drake, as
we have seen, always used naval brigades, and they have always been the same keen "first-class
fighting men" wherever they went.  The only trouble was in holding them back.  At the siege
of Tangier in North Africa in the seventeenth century Admiral Herbert "checked" Captain Barclay
"for suffering too forward and furious an advance, lest they might fall into an ambush"; whereupon
Barclay said, "Sir, I can lead them on, but the Furies can't call them back."  A naval brigade
man-handled the guns on the Plains of Abraham the day of Wolfe's victory, and took forty-seven
up the cliff and into position before the army had dug itself in for the night.  Nelson lost
his right arm when leading a naval brigade at Teneriffe in 1797.  Peel's naval brigade in the
Indian Mutiny (1857-9) man-handled two big guns right up against the wall that kept Lord Clyde's
army from joining hands with the British besieged in Lucknow, blew a hole in it, though it
was swarming with rebels, and so let the Marines and the Highlanders through.

In Egypt (1882) Lord Fisher, of whom we shall soon hear more, rigged up a train like an ironclad
and kept Arabi Pasha at arm's length from Alexandria, which Lord Alcester's fleet had bombarded
and taken. Lieutenant Rawson literally "steered" Lord Wolseley's army across the desert by
the stars during the night march that ended in the perfect victory of Tel-el-Kebir.  Mortally
wounded he simply asked: "Did I lead them straight, Sir?"

The Egyptian campaigns continued off and on for sixteen years (1882-1898) till Lord Kitchener
beat the Mahdi far south in the wild Soudan.  British sea-power, as it always does, worked
the sea lines of communication over which the army's supplies had to go to the front from England
and elsewhere, and, again as usual, put the army in the best possible place from which to strike
inland.  Needless to say, the naval part of British sea-power not only helped and protected
the mercantile part, which carried the supplies, but helped both in the fighting and the inland
water transport too.

At one time (1885) the little Naval Brigade on the Nile had to be led by a boatswain, every
officer having been killed or wounded.  In the attempt to rescue the saintly and heroic General
Gordon from Khartoum, Lord Beresford rigged up the little Egyptian steamer Safieh with armour
plates and took her past an enemy fort that could easily have sunk her as she went by, only
eighty yards away, if his machine-gunners had not kept such a stream of bullets whizzing through
every hole from which an Egyptian gun stuck out that not a single Egyptian gunner could stand
to his piece and live.

Lord Beresford was well to the fore wherever hard work had to be done during that desperate
venture; and it was he who performed the wonderful feat of getting the Nile steamers hauled
through the Second Cataract by fifteen hundred British soldiers, who hove them up against that
awful stream of death while the blue-jackets looked after the tackle.  Beresford's Naval Brigade
used to tramp fifteen miles a day along the river, sometimes work as many hours with no spell
off for dinner, haul the whaleboats up-stream to where the rapids made a big loop, and then,
avoiding the loop, portage them across the neck of land into the river again.  Handling these
boats in the killing heat would have been hard enough in any case; but it was made still worse
by the scorpions that swarmed in them under the mats and darted out to bite the nearest hand.
Beresford himself had to keep his weather eye on thirty miles of roaring river, on hundreds
of soldiers and sailors, and on thousands of natives.  Yet he managed it all quite handily
by riding about on his three famous camels: Bimbashi, Ballyhooly, and Beelzebub.

But let no one imagine that dozens of joint expeditions ever make the Navy forget its first
duty of keeping the seaways clear of every possible enemy during every minute of every day
the whole year round. When the Russian fleet was going out to the Sea of Japan during the Russo-Japanese
War (1904-5) it ran into the "Gamecock Fleet" of British fishing vessels in the North Sea,
got excited, and fired some shots that killed and wounded several fishermen.  Within a very
few hours it was completely surrounded by a British fleet that did not interfere with its movements,
but simply "shadowed" it along, waiting for orders. There was no fight; and the Russians were
left to be finished by the Japanese.  But the point is, that, although the British Empire was
then at peace with the whole world, the British Navy was far readier for instant action than
the Russian Navy, which had been many months at war.

THE HAPPY WARRIOR

Wordsworth's glorious poem is not in praise of war but of the self-sacrificing warriors who
try to save their country from the horrors of war.  No wise people, least of all the men who
know it best, ever sing the praise of war itself.  They might as well sing the praises of disease.
But, while those who, like the Germans, force a wicked war upon the world are no better than
poisoners of wells and spreaders of the plague, those, on the other hand, who, like the Allies,
fight the poisoners of wells and spreaders of the plague are doing the same kind of service
that doctors do when fighting germs. Therefore, as doctors to disease, so is the Happy Warrior
to war.  He no more likes war than doctors like the germs of deadly sickness; and he would
rid the world of this great danger if he could.  But while war lasts, and wars are waged against
the very soul of all we hold most dear, we need the Happy Warrior who can foresee the coming
war and lead a host of heroes when it comes.  And leaders and followers alike, when faithful
unto death, are they not among the noblest martyrs ever known? For greater love hath no man
than this, that he lay down his life for his friends.

CHAPTER XXIII

FIFTY YEARS OF WARNING

(1864-1914)

In 1864 the Fathers of Confederation met at Quebec, while the Germans took from the Danes the
neck of land through which they cut the Kiel Canal to give the German Navy a safe back way
between the North Sea and the Baltic.  At first sight you cannot understand why Canadian Confederation
and the German attack on Denmark should ever be mentioned together.  But, just as the waters
of two streams in the same river system are bound to meet in the end, so Canada and Germany
were bound to meet on the same battlefield when once Canada had begun to grow into a nation
within the British Empire and Germany had begun to grow into an empire for whose ambitions
there was no room without a series of victorious wars.  After beating Austria in 1866, to win
the leadership of Central Europe, Germany beat France in 1870, took Alsace and Lorraine, and
made herself the strongest land-power in the world.  Even then two such very different Englishmen
as Cardinal Newman and John Stuart Mill foresaw the clash that was bound to come between the
new empire of the Germans and the old one of the British.  But most people never see far ahead,
while many will not look at all if the prospect seems to be unpleasant.

Thirty years before the war (1884) Germany began to get an empire overseas.  Taking every possible
chance she went on till she had a million square miles and fifteen million natives.  But she
neither had nor could get without victorious war any land outside of Germany where she could
bring up German children under the German flag.  Even including the German parts of Austria
there was barely one quarter-million of square miles on which German-speaking people could
go on growing under their own flags; while the English-speaking people of the British Empire
and the United States had twenty times as much land, fit for whites, on which to grow bigger
and bigger populations of their own blood under their own flags.  This meant that the new,
strong, and most ambitious German Empire was doomed to an ever-dwindling future as a world-power
in comparison with the British Empire.  The Germans could not see why they should not have
as good a "place in the sun" of the white man's countries as the British, whom they now looked
on very much as our ancestors looked upon the oversea Spaniards about the time of the Armada.
"Why," they asked, "should the British have so much white man's country while we have so little?"

There are only three answers, two that the Germans understand as well as we do, and one that,
being what they are, they could hardly be expected to admit, though it is the only one that
justifies our case. The two answers which the Germans understand are of course these: that
we had the sea-power while they had not; and that, because we had it, we had reaped the full
benefit of "first come, first served."  But the third answer, which is much the most important,
because it turns upon the question of right and wrong, is that while the Germans, like the
Spaniards, have grossly abused their imperial powers, we, on the whole, with all our faults,
have not.

There are so many crimes for which the Germans have to answer that this whole book could not
contain the hundredth part of them.  But one crime in one of their oversea possessions will
be enough to mention here, because it was all of a piece with the rest. Leave it there!

Fontanges. Your ring hand, my lord bishop! How quick you are! Could not you have been trusted me
to pick it up? Bossuet.

Madame is pretty condescending: had this happened, I should have been overwhelmed with breaking
confusion. My hand is shrivelled: the signal has ceased up to fit it.

A firing may so draw you into perdition; a accident may say them on the means remains of grace.
A pebble has moved you had more that my words.

Fontanges. It pleases
me vastly: I admire rubies. He will not ask the king for one just like
it. This is the time he usually comes from chase. I am sorry cannot
be present to learn how prettily I shall thus ask him: but that is
impossible, you know; for I shall do it just when He am certain he
would give me anything.  Heligoland is only a tiny inland
off the North Sea coast of Germany.  But it was very useful to the Germans as one of the main
defences of the great naval base there.

In 1897 the Kaiser said, "I shall not rest till I have made my fleet as strong as my army."
A year later he said, "Our future is on the water."  And in 1900 the German Navy Bill passed
by the German Parliament began by saying, "The German Navy must be strong enough to endanger
the supremacy of even the mightiest foreign navy."  What "foreign navy" could that be if not
the British?  In 1908 the Kaiser tried to steal a march on the too pacific British Government
by writing privately to Lord Tweedmouth, the feeble civilian First Lord of the Admiralty. 
The First Lord represents the Navy in Parliament; and Parliament represents the People, who
elect its members.  So when a First Lord is a real statesman who knows what advice to take
from the First Sea Lord (who is always an admiral) everything goes well; for then Parliament
and the Navy work together as the trusted servants of the whole People.  But Tweedmouth, feeble
and easily flattered, was completely taken in by the sly Kaiser, who said Germany was only
building new ships in place of old ones, while she was really trying to double her strength.
It was therefore a very lucky thing that the Kaiser also tried to fool that wonderful statesman,
wise King Edward, who at once saw through the whole German trick.

Meanwhile (1898) the Americans had driven the Spaniards out of their last oversea possessions,
much to the rage of the Germans, who had hoped to get these themselves.  The German admiral
at Manilla in the Philippines blustered against the American fleet under Admiral Dewey; but
was soon brought to book by Sir Edward Chichester, who told him he would have to fight the
British squadron as well if he gave any more trouble about things that were none of his business.

The same year the Germans tried to set the French and British by the ears over Fashoda.  A
French expedition came out of French Africa into the Sudan, where Kitchener's army was in possession
after having freed Egypt from the power of the Madhi's wild Sudanese.  French and British both
claimed the same place; and for some years Fashoda was like a red rag to a bull when mentioned
to Frenchmen; for Kitchener had got there first.  Luckily he had fought for France in 1870,
spoke French like a Frenchman, and soon made friends with the French on the spot.  More luckily
still, King Edward the Wise went to Paris in 1903, despite the fears of his Ministers, who
did all they could to make him change his mind, and then, when this failed, to go there as
a private person. They were afraid that memories of Fashoda and of all the anti-British feeling
stirred up by Germans in Europe and America over the Boer War (1899-1902) would make the French
unfriendly.  But he went to pay his respects to France on his accession to the British Throne,
showed how perfectly he understood the French people, said and did exactly the right thing
in the right way; and, before either friends or foes knew what was happening, had so won the
heart of France that French and British, seeing what friends they might be, began that Entente
Cordiale (good understanding of each other) which our glorious Alliance in the Great War ought
to make us keep forever.  Paris named one of her squares in his honour, Place Edouard Sept;
and there the wise king's statue stands to remind the world of what he did to save it from
the German fury.

Next year Lord Fisher went to London as First Sea Lord (1904-10) to get the Navy ready for
the coming war. That we shall now induce her to evacuate, something in thousand of her promises
to slacker from island. Faith, having lost he had virginity, who braves public, and never blushes
more.

Louis. Well there is the key to India, Egypt is the lock.

Talleyrand.  He started a new class of battleships by launching (1906) the world-famous Dreadnought.
This kind of ship was so much better than all others that all foreign navies, both friends
and foes, have copied it ever since, trying to keep up with each new British improvement as
it appeared.

