We never touched our tunnel or our shaft again.  Why?  Because we judged that we had learned
the real secret of success in silver mining--which was, not to mine the silver ourselves by
the sweat of our brows and the labor of our hands, but to sell the ledges to the dull slaves
of toil and let them do the mining!

Before leaving Carson, the Secretary and I had purchased "feet" from various Esmeralda stragglers.
We had expected immediate returns of bullion, but were only afflicted with regular and constant
"assessments" instead--demands for money wherewith to develop the said mines.  These assessments
had grown so oppressive that it seemed necessary to look into the matter personally.  Therefore
I projected a pilgrimage to Carson and thence to Esmeralda.  I bought a horse and started,
in company with Mr. Ballou and a gentleman named Ollendorff, a Prussian--not the party who
has inflicted so much suffering on the world with his wretched foreign grammars, with their
interminable repetitions of questions which never have occurred and are never likely to occur
in any conversation among human beings.  We rode through a snow-storm for two or three days,
and arrived at "Honey Lake Smith's," a sort of isolated inn on the Carson river.  It was a
two-story log house situated on a small knoll in the midst of the vast basin or desert through
which the sickly Carson winds its melancholy way.  Close to the house were the Overland stage
stables, built of sun-dried bricks.  There was not another building within several leagues
of the place.  Towards sunset about twenty hay-wagons arrived and camped around the house and
all the teamsters came in to supper--a very, very rough set.  There were one or two Overland
stage drivers there, also, and half a dozen vagabonds and stragglers; consequently the house
was well crowded.

We walked out, after supper, and visited a small Indian camp in the vicinity.  The Indians
were in a great hurry about something, and were packing up and getting away as fast as they
could.  In their broken English they said, "By'm-by, heap water!" and by the help of signs
made us understand that in their opinion a flood was coming.  The weather was perfectly clear,
and this was not the rainy season.  There was about a foot of water in the insignificant river--or
maybe two feet; the stream was not wider than a back alley in a village, and its banks were
scarcely higher than a man's head.

So, where was the flood to come from?  We canvassed the subject awhile and then concluded it
was a ruse, and that the Indians had some better reason for leaving in a hurry than fears of
a flood in such an exceedingly dry time.

At seven in the evening we went to bed in the second story--with our clothes on, as usual,
and all three in the same bed, for every available space on the floors, chairs, etc., was in
request, and even then there was barely room for the housing of the inn's guests.  An hour
later we were awakened by a great turmoil, and springing out of bed we picked our way nimbly
among the ranks of snoring teamsters on the floor and got to the front windows of the long
room.  A glance revealed a strange spectacle, under the moonlight.  The crooked Carson was
full to the brim, and its waters were raging and foaming in the wildest way--sweeping around
the sharp bends at a furious speed, and bearing on their surface a chaos of logs, brush and
all sorts of rubbish.  A depression, where its bed had once been, in other times, was already
filling, and in one or two places the water was beginning to wash over the main bank.  Men
were flying hither and thither, bringing cattle and wagons close up to the house, for the spot
of high ground on which it stood extended only some thirty feet in front and about a hundred
in the rear.