D.W.]

RECOLLECTIONS OF THE PRIVATE LIFE OF NAPOLEON, V12

By CONSTANT

PREMIER VALET DE CHAMBRE

TRANSLATED BY WALTER CLARK

1895

CHAPTER XXIV.

After the brilliant successes obtained by the Emperor in such a short time, and with forces
so exceedingly inferior to the great masses of the enemy, his Majesty, realizing the necessity
of allowing his troops to take a rest of some days at Troyes, entered into negotiations for
an armistice with the Prince von Schwarzenberg.

At this juncture it was announced to the Emperor that General Blucher, who had been wounded
at Mery, was descending along both banks of the Maine, at the head of an army of fresh troops,
estimated at not less than one hundred thousand men, and that he was marching on Meaux.  The
Prince von Schwarzenberg, having been informed of this movement of Blucher's, immediately cut
short the negotiations, and assumed the offensive at Bar- sur-Seine.  The Emperor, whose genius
followed by a single glance all the marches and, operations of the enemy, though he could not
be everywhere at once, resolved to confront Blucher in person, while by means of a stratagem
he made it appear that he was present opposite Schwarzenberg; and two army corps, commanded,
one by Marshal Oudinot, the other by Marshal Macdonald, were then sent to meet the Austrians.
As soon as the troops approached the enemy's camp they made the air resound with the shouts
of confidence and cheers with which they usually announced the presence of his Majesty, though
at this very moment he was repairing in all haste to meet General Blucher.

We halted at the little village of Herbisse, where we passed the night in the manse; and the
curate, seeing the Emperor arrive with his marshals, aides-de-camp, ordnance officers, service
of honor, and the other services, almost lost his wits.  His Majesty on alighting said to him,
"Monsieur le Cure, we come to ask your hospitality for a night.  Do not be frightened by this
visit; we shall disturb you as little as possible." The Emperor, conducted by the good curate,
beside himself with eagerness and embarrassment, established himself in the only apartment
the house contained, which served at the same time as kitchen, diningroom, bedroom, cabinet,
and reception-room.  In an instant his Majesty had his maps and papers spread out before him,
and prepared himself for work with as much ease as in his cabinet at the Tuileries.  But the
persons of his suite needed somewhat more time to install themselves, for it was no easy thing
for so many persons to find a place in a bakehouse which, with the room occupied by his Majesty,
composed the entire manse of Herbisse; but these gentlemen, although there were among them
more than one dignitary and prince of the Empire, were uncomplaining, and readily disposed
to accommodate themselves to circumstances.  The gay good humor of these gallant soldiers,
in spite of all the combats they had to sustain each day, while events every instant took a
more alarming turn, was most noteworthy, and depicts well the French character.

