With instinctive perception of his need, she was ever turning his thoughts upon his literary
career. Of course she and all the household seemed in a conspiracy to flatter and encourage
the vanity of authorship. Was not all the village talking about the reputation he had conferred
on it? Was it not proud of him? Indeed, it did imagine that the world outside of Rivervale
was very much interested in him, and that he was already an author of distinction. The county
Gazette had announced, as an important piece of news, that the author of The Puritan Nun was
on a visit to his relatives, the Maitlands. This paragraph seemed to stand out in the paper
as an almost immodest exposure of family life, read furtively at first, and not talked of,
and yet every member of the family was conscious of an increase in the family importance. Aunt
Patience discovered, from her outlook on the road, that summer visitors had a habit of driving
or walking past the house and then turning back to look at it again.

So Philip was not only distinguished, but he had the power of conferring distinction. No one
can envy a young author this first taste of fame, this home recognition. Whatever he may do
hereafter, how much more substantial rewards he may attain, this first sweetness of incense
to his ambition will never come to him again.

When Philip returned to town, the city was still a social desert, and he plunged into the work
piled up on his desk, the never-ceasing accumulation of manuscripts, most of them shells which
the workers have dredged up from the mud of the literary ocean, in which the eager publisher
is always expecting to find pearls. Even Celia was still in the country, and Philip's hours
spared from drudgery were given to the new story. His days, therefore, passed without incident,
but not without pleasure. For whatever annoyances the great city may have usually, it is in
the dull season--that is, the season of its summer out-of-doors animation--a most attractive
and, even stimulating place for the man who has an absorbing pursuit, say a work in creative
fiction. Undisturbed by social claims or public interests, the very noise and whirl of the
gay metropolis seem to hem him in and protect the world of his own imagination.

The first disturbing event in this serenity was the report of the Mavick ball, already referred
to, and the interpretation put upon it by the newspapers. In this light his plans seemed the
merest moonshine. What became of his fallacious hope of waiting when events were driving on
at this rate? What chance had he in such a social current? Would Evelyn be strong enough to
stem it and to wait also? And to wait for what? For the indefinite and improbable event of
a poor author, hardly yet recognized as an author, coming into position, into an income (for
that was the weak point in his aspirations) that would not be laughed at by the millionaire.
When he coolly considered it, was it reasonable to expect that Mr. and Mrs. Mavick would ever
permit Evelyn to throw away the brilliant opportunity for their daughter which was to be the
crowning end of their social ambition? The mere statement of the proposition was enough to
overwhelm him.

That this would be the opinion of the world he could not doubt. He felt very much alone. It
was not, however, in any resolve to make a confidante of Celia, but in an absolute need of
companionship, that he went to see if she had returned. That he had any personal interest in
this ball he did not intend to let Celia know, but talk with somebody he must. Of his deep
affection for this friend of his boyhood, there was no doubt, nor of his knowledge of her devotion
to his interests. Why, then, was he reserved with her upon the absorbing interest of his life?

Celia had returned, before the opening of the medical college, full of a new idea. This was
nothing new in her restless nature; but if Philip had not been blinded by the common selfishness
of his sex, he might have seen in the gladness of her welcome of him something more than mere
sisterly affection.

"Are you real glad to see me, Phil? I thought you might be lonesome by this time in the deserted
city."

"I was, horribly." He was still holding her hand. "Without a chance to talk with you or Alice,
I am quite an orphan."

"Ah! You or Alice!" A shade of disappointment came over her face as she dropped his hand. But
she rallied in a moment.

"Poor boy! You ought to have a guardian. What heroine of romance are you running after now?"

"In my new story?"

"Of course."

"She isn't very well defined in my mind yet. But a lovely girl, without anything peculiar,
no education to speak of, or career, fascinating in her womanhood, such as might walk out of
the Bible. Don't you think that would be a novelty? But it is the most difficult to do."

"Negative. That sort has gone out. Philip, why don't you take the heroine of the Mavick ball?
There is a theme." She was watching him shrewdly, and saw the flush in his face as he hurriedly
asked,

"Did you ever see her?"

"Only at a distance. But you must know her well enough for a literary purpose. The reports
of the ball give you the setting of the drama."

"Did you read them?"

"I should say I did. Most amusing."

"Celia, don't you think it would be an ungentlemanly thing to take a social event like that?"

"Why, you must take life as it is. Of course you would change the details. You could lay the
scene in Philadelphia. Nobody would suspect you then."

Philip shook his head. The conversation was not taking the turn that was congenial to him.
The ball seemed to him a kind of maelstrom in which all his hopes were likely to be wrecked.
And here was his old friend, the keenest-sighted woman he knew, looking upon it simply as literary
material--a ridiculous social event. He had better change the subject.

"So the college is not open yet?"

"No, I came back because I had a new idea, and wanted time to look around. We haven't got quite
the right idea in our city missions. They have another side. We need country missions."

"Aren't they that now?"

"No, I mean for the country. I've been about a good deal all this vacation, and my ideas are
confirmed. The country towns and villages are full of young hoodlums and toughs, and all sorts
of wickedness. They could be improved by sending city boys up there--yes, and girls of tender
age. I don't mean the worst ones, not altogether. The young of a certain low class growing
up in the country are even worse than the same class in the city, and they lack a civility
of manner which is pretty sure to exist in a city-bred person."

"If the country is so bad, why send any more unregenerates into it?"

"How do you know that anybody is always to be unregenerate? But I wouldn't send thieves and
imbeciles. I would select children of some capacity, whose circumstances are against them where
they are, and I am sure they would make better material than a good deal of the young generation
in country villages now. This is what I mean by a mission for the country. We have been bending
all our efforts to the reformation of the cities. What we need to go at now is the reforming
of the country."

"You have taken a big contract," said Philip, smiling at her enthusiasm. "Don't you intend
to go on with medicine?"

"Certainly. At least far enough to be of some use in breaking up people's ignorance about their
own bodies. Half the physical as well as moral misery comes from ignorance. Didn't I always
tell you that I want to know? A good many of my associates pretend to be agnostics, neither
believe or disbelieve in anything. The further I go the more I am convinced that there is a
positive basis for things. They talk about the religion of humanity. I tell you, Philip, that
humanity is pretty poor stuff to build a religion on."

The talk was wandering far away from what was in Philip's mind, and presently Celia perceived
his want of interest.

"There, that is enough about myself. I want to know all about you, your visit to Rivervale,
how the publishing house suits you, how the story is growing."

And Philip talked about himself, and the rumors in Wall Street, and Mr. Ault and his offer,
and at last about the Mavicks--he could not help that--until he felt that Celia was what she
had always been to him, and when he went away he held her hand and said what a dear, sweet
friend she was.

And when he had gone, Celia sat a long time by the window, not seeing much of the hot street
into which she looked, until there were tears in her eyes.

XXIV

There was one man in New York who thoroughly enjoyed the summer. Murad Ault was, as we say
of a man who is free to indulge his natural powers, in his element. There are ingenious people
who think that if the ordering of nature had been left to them, they could maintain moral conditions,
or at least restore a disturbed equilibrium, without violence, without calling in the aid of
cyclones and of uncontrollable electric displays, in order to clear the air. There are people
also who hold that the moral atmosphere of the world does not require the occasional intervention
of Murad Ault.

The conceit is flattering to human nature, but it is not borne out by the performance of human
nature in what is called the business world, which is in such intimate alliance with the social
world in such great centres of conflict as London, New York, or Chicago. Mr. Ault is everywhere
an integral and necessary part of the prevailing system--that is, the system by which the moral
law is applied to business. The system, perhaps, cannot be defended, but it cannot be explained
without Mr. Ault. We may argue that such a man is a disturber of trade, of legitimate operations,
of the fairest speculations, but when we see how uniform he is as a phenomenon, we begin to
be convinced that he is somehow indispensable to the system itself. We cannot exactly understand
why a cyclone should pick up a peaceful village in Nebraska and deposit it in Kansas, where
there, is already enough of that sort, but we cannot conceive of Wall Street continuing to
be Wall Street unless it were now and then visited by a powerful adjuster like Mr. Ault.

The advent, then, of Murad Ault in New York was not a novelty, but a continuation of like phenomena
in the Street, ever since the day when ingenious men discovered that the ability to guess correctly
which of two sparrows, sold for a farthing, lighting on the spire of Trinity Church, will fly
first, is an element in a successful and distinguished career. There was nothing peculiar in
kind in his career, only in the force exhibited which lifted him among the few whose destructive
energy the world condones and admires as Napoleonic. He may have been an instrument of Providence.
When we do not know exactly what to do with an exceptional man who is disagreeable, we call
him an Instrument of Providence.

It is not, then, in anything exceptional that we are interested in the operations of Murad
Ault, but simply on account of his fortuitous connection with a great fortune which had its
origin in very much the same cyclonic conditions that Mr. Ault reveled in. Those who know Wall
Street best, by reason of sad experience, say that the presiding deity there is not the Chinese
god, Luck, but the awful pagan deity, Nemesis. Alas! how many innocent persons suffer in order
to get justice done in this world.

Those who have unimpaired memories may recollect the fortune amassed, many years previous to
this history, by one Rodney Henderson, gathered and enlarged by means not indictable, but which
illustrate the wide divergence between the criminal code and the moral law. This fortune, upon
the sudden death of its creator, had been largely diverted from its charitable destination
by fraud, by a crime that would have fallen within the code if it had been known. This fortune
had been enjoyed by those who seized it for many years of great social success, rising into
acknowledged respectability and distinction; and had become the basis of the chance of social
elevation, which is dear to the hearts of so many excellent people, who are compelled to wander
about in a chaotic society that has no hereditary titles. It was this fortune, the stake in
such an ambition, or perhaps destined in a new possessor to a nobler one, that came in the
way of Mr. Ault's extensive schemes.

It is not necessary to infer that Mr. Ault was originally actuated by any greed as to this
special accumulation of property, or that he had any malevolence towards Mr. Mavick; but the
eagerness of his personal pursuit led him into collisions. There were certain possessions of
Mr. Mavick that were desirable for the rounding-out of his plans--these graspings were many
of them understood by the public as necessary to the "development of a system"--and in this
collision of interests and fierce strength a vindictive feeling was engendered, a feeling born,
as has been hinted, by Mr. Mavick's attempt to trick his temporary ally in a certain operation,
so that Mr. Ault's main purpose was to "down Mavick." This was no doubt an exaggeration concerning
a man with so many domestic virtues as Mr. Ault, meaning by domestic virtues indulgence of
his family; but a fight for place or property in politics or in the Street is pretty certain
to take on a personal character.

We can understand now why Mr. Ault read the accounts of the Mavick ball with a grim smile.
In speaking of it he used the vulgar term "splurge," a word especially offensive to the refined
society in which the Mavicks had gained a foothold. And yet the word was on the lips of a great
many men on the Street. The shifting application of sympathy is a very queer thing in this
world. Mr. Ault was not a snob. Whatever else he was, he made few pretensions. In his first
advent he had been resisted as an intruder and shunned as a vulgarian; but in time respect
for his force and luck mingled with fear of his reckless talent, and in the course of events
it began to be admitted that the rough diamond was being polished into one of the corner-stones
of the great business edifice. At the time of this writing he did not altogether lack the sympathy
of the Street, and an increasing number of people were not sorry to see Mr. Mavick get the
worst of it in repeated trials of strength. And in each of these trials it became increasingly
difficult for Mr. Mavick to obtain the assistance and the credit which are often indispensable
to the strongest men in a panic.

The truth was that there were many men in the Street who were not sorry to see Mr. Mavick worried.
They remembered perfectly well the omniscient snobbishness of Thomas Mavick when he held a
position in the State Department at Washington and was at the same time a secret agent of Rodney
Henderson. They did not change their opinion of him when, by his alliance with Mrs. Henderson,
he stepped into control of Mr. Henderson's property and obtained the mission to Rome; but later
on he had been accepted as one of the powers in the financial world. There were a few of the
old stagers who never trusted him. Uncle Jerry Hollowell, for instance, used to say, "Mavick
is smart, smart as lightnin'; I guess he'll make ducks and drakes of the Henderson property."
They are very superficial observers of Wall Street who think that character does not tell there.
Mr. Mavick may have realized that when in his straits he looked around for assistance.

The history of this panic summer in New York would not be worthy the reader's attention were
not the fortunes of some of his acquaintances involved in it. It was not more intense than
the usual panics, but it lasted longer on account of the complications with uncertain government
policy, and it produced stagnation in social as well as business circles. So quiet a place
as Rivervale felt it in the diminution of city visitors, and the great resorts showed it in
increased civility to the small number of guests.

The summer at Newport, which had not been distinguished by many great events, was drawing to
a close--that is, it was in the period when those who really loved the charming promenade which
is so loved of the sea began to enjoy themselves, and those who indulge in the pleasures of
hope, based upon a comfortable matrimonial establishment, are reckoning up the results of the
campaign.

Mrs. Mavick, according to her own assertion, was one of those who enjoy nature. "Nature and
a few friends, not too many, only those whom one trusts and who are companionable," she had
said to Lord Montague.

This young gentleman had found the pursuit of courtship in America attended by a good many
incidental social luxuries. It had been a wise policy to impress him with the charm of a society
which has unlimited millions to make it attractive. Even to an impecunious noble there is a
charm in this, although the society itself has some of the lingering conditions of its money
origin. But since the great display of the ball, and the legitimate inferences drawn from it
by the press and the fashionable world, Mrs. Mavick had endeavored to surround her intended
son-in-law with the toils of domestic peace.

He must be made to feel at home. And this she did. Mrs. Mavick was as admirable in the role
of a domestic woman as of a woman of the world. The simple pleasures, the confidences, the
intimacies of home life surrounded him. His own mother, the aged duchess, could not have looked
upon him with more affection, and possibly not have pampered him with so many luxuries. There
was only one thing wanting to make this home complete. In conventional Europe the contracting
parties are not the signers of the marriage contract. In the United States the parties most
interested take the initiative in making the contract.

Here lay the difficulty of the situation, a situation that puzzled Lord Montague and enraged
Mrs. Mavick. Evelyn maintained as much indifference to the domestic as to the worldly situation.
Her mother thought her lifeless and insensible; she even went so far as to call her unwomanly
in her indifference to what any other woman would regard as an opportunity for a brilliant career.

Lifeless indeed she was, poor child; physically languid and scarcely able to drag herself through
the daily demands upon her strength. Her mother made it a reproach that she was so pale and
unresponsive. Apparently she did not resist, she did everything she was told to do. She passed,
indeed, hours with Lord Montague, occasions contrived when she was left alone in the house
with him, and she made heroic efforts to be interested, to find something in his mind that
was in sympathy with her own thoughts. With a woman's ready instinct she avoided committing
herself to his renewed proposals, sometimes covert, sometimes direct, but the struggle tired
her. At the end of all such interviews she had to meet her mother, who, with a smile of hope
and encouragement, always said, "Well, I suppose you and Lord Montague have made it up," and
then to encounter the contempt expressed for her as a "goose."

She was helpless in such toils. At times she felt actually abandoned of any human aid, and
in moods of despondency almost resolved to give up the struggle. In the eyes of the world it
was a good match, it would make her mother happy, no doubt her father also; and was it not
her duty to put aside her repugnance, and go with the current of the social and family forces
that seemed irresistible?

Few people can resist doing what is universally expected of them. This invisible pressure is
more difficult to stand against than individual tyranny. There are no tragedies in our modern
life so pathetic as the ossification of women's hearts when love is crushed under the compulsion
of social and caste requirements. Everybody expected that Evelyn would accept Lord Montague.
It could be said that for her own reputation the situation required this consummation of the
intimacy of the season. And the mother did not hesitate to put this interpretation upon the
events which were her own creation.

But with such a character as Evelyn, who was a constant puzzle to her mother, this argument
had very little weight compared with her own sense of duty to her parents. Her somewhat ideal
education made worldly advantages of little force in her mind, and love the one priceless possession
of a woman's heart which could not be bartered. And yet might there not be an element of selfishness
in this--might not its sacrifice be a family duty? Mrs. Mavick having found this weak spot
in her daughter's armor, played upon it with all her sweet persuasive skill and show of tenderness.

"Of course, dear," she said, "you know what would make me happy. But I do not want you to yield
to my selfishness or even to your father's ambition to see his only child in an exalted position
in life. I can bear the disappointment. I have had to bear many. But it is your own happiness
I am thinking of. And I think also of the cruel blow your refusal will inflict upon a man whose
heart is bound up in you."

"But I don't love him." The girl was very pale, and she spoke with an air of weariness, but
still with a sort of dogged persistence.

"You will in time. A young girl never knows her own heart, any more than she knows the world."

"Mother, that isn't all. It would be a sin to him to pretend to give him a heart that was not
his. I can't; I can't."

"My dear child, that is his affair. He is willing to trust you, and to win your love. When
we act from a sense of duty the way is apt to open to us. I have never told you of my own earlier
experience. I was not so young as you are when I married Mr. Henderson, but I had not been
without the fancies and experiences of a young girl. I might have yielded to one of them but
for family reasons. My father had lost his fortune and had died, disappointed and broken down.
My mother, a lovely woman, was not strong, was not capable of fighting the world alone, and
she depended upon me, for in those days I had plenty of courage and spirit. Mr. Henderson was
a widower whom we had known as a friend before the death of his accomplished wife. In his lonesomeness
he turned to me. In our friendlessness I turned to him. Did I love him? I esteemed him, I respected
him, I trusted him, that was all. He did not ask more than that. And what a happy life we had!
I shared in all his great plans. And when in the midst of his career, with such large ideas
of public service and philanthropy, he was stricken down, he left to me, in the confidence
of his love, all that fortune which is some day to be yours." Mrs. Mavick put her handkerchief
to her eyes. "Ah, well, our destiny is not in our hands. Heaven raised up for me another protector,
another friend. Perhaps some of my youthful illusions have vanished, but should I have been
happier if I had indulged them? I know your dear father does not think so."

"Mother," cried Evelyn, deeply moved by this unprecedented confidence, "I cannot bear to see
you suffer on my account. But must not every one decide for herself what is right before God?"

At this inopportune appeal to a higher power Mrs. Mavick had some difficulty in restraining
her surprise and indignation at what she considered her child's stubbornness. But she conquered
the inclination, and simply looked sad and appealing when she said:

"Yes, yes, you must decide for yourself. You must not consider your mother as I did mine."

This cruel remark cut the girl to the heart. The world seemed to whirl around her, right and
wrong and duty in a confused maze. Was she, then, such a monster of ingratitude? She half rose
to throw herself at her mother's feet, upon her mother's mercy. And at the moment it was not
her reason but her heart that saved her. In the moral confusion rose the image of Philip. Suppose
she should gain the whole world and lose him! And it was love, simple, trusting love, that
put courage into her sinking heart.

"Mother, it is very hard. I love you; I could die for you. I am so forlorn. But I cannot, I
dare not, do such a thing, such a dreadful thing!"

She spoke brokenly, excitedly, she shuddered as she said the last words, and her eyes were
full of tears as she bent down and kissed her mother.

When she had gone, Mrs. Mavick sat long in her chair, motionless between bewilderment and rage.
In her heart she was saying, "The obstinate, foolish girl must be brought to reason!"

A servant entered with a telegram. Mrs. Mavick took it, and held it listlessly while the servant
waited. "You can sign." After the door closed--she was still thinking of Evelyn--she waited
a moment before she tore the envelope, and with no eagerness unfolded the official yellow paper.
And then she read:

     "I have made an assignment. T. M."

A half-hour afterwards when a maid entered the room she found Mrs. Mavick still seated in the
armchair, her hands powerless at her side, her eyes staring into space, her face haggard and old.

XXV

The action of Thomas Mavick in giving up the fight was as unexpected in New York as it was
in Newport. It was a shock even to those familiar with the Street. It was known that he was
in trouble, but he had been in trouble before. It was known that there had been sacrifices,
efforts at extension, efforts at compromise, but the general public fancied that the Mavick
fortune had a core too solid to be washed away by any storm. Only a very few people knew--such
old hands as Uncle Jerry Hollowell, and such inquisitive bandits as Murad Ault--that the house
of Mavick was a house of cards, and that it might go down when the belief was destroyed that
it was of granite.

The failure was not an ordinary sensation, and, according to the excellent practices and differing
humors of the daily newspapers, it was made the most of, until the time came for the heavy
weeklies to handle it in its moral aspects as an illustration of modern civilization. On the
first morning there was substantial unanimity in assuming the totality of the disaster, and
the most ingenious artists in headlines vied with each other in startling effects: "Crash in
Wall Street." "Mavick Runs Up the White Flag." "King of Wall Street Called Down." "Ault Takes
the Pot." "Dangerous to Dukes." "Mavick Bankrupt." "The House of Mavick a Ruin." "Dukes and
Drakes." "The Sea Goes Over Him."

This, however, was only the beginning. The sensation must be prolonged. The next day there
were attenuating circumstances.

It might be only a temporary embarrassment. The assets were vastly greater than the liabilities.
There was talk in financial circles of an adjustment. With time the house could go on. The
next day it was made a reproach to the house that such deceptive hopes were put upon the public.
Journalistic enterprise had discovered that the extent of the liabilities had been concealed.
This attempt to deceive the public, these defenders of the public interest would expose. The
next day the wind blew from another direction. The alarmists were rebuked. The creditors were
disposed to be lenient. Doubtful securities were likely to realize more than was expected.
The assignees were sharply scored for not taking the newspapers into their confidence.

And so for ten days the failure went on in the newspapers, backward and forward, now hopeless,
now relieved, now sunk in endless complications, and fallen into the hands of the lawyers who
could be trusted with the most equitable distribution of the property involved, until the reading
public were glad to turn, with the same eager zest, to the case of the actress who was found
dead in a hotel in Jersey City. She was attended only by her pet poodle, in whose collar was
embedded a jewel of great price. This jewel was traced to a New York establishment, whence
it had disappeared under circumstances that pointed to the criminality of a scion of a well-known
family--an exposure which would shake society to its foundations.

Meantime affairs took their usual course. The downfall of Mavick is too well known in the Street
to need explanation here. For a time it was hoped that sacrifices of great interests would
leave a modest little fortune, but under the pressure of liquidation these hopes melted away.
If anything could be saved it would be only comparatively valueless securities and embarrassed
bits of property that usually are only a delusion and a source of infinite worry to a bankrupt.
It seemed incredible that such a vast fortune should so disappear; but there were wise men
who, so they declared, had always predicted this disaster. For some years after Henderson's
death the fortune had appeared to expand marvelously. It was, however, expanded, and not solidified.
It had been risked in many gigantic speculations (such as the Argentine), and it had been liable
to collapse at any time if its central credit was doubted. Mavick's combinations were splendidly
conceived, but he lacked the power of coordination. And great as were his admitted abilities,
he had never inspired confidence.

"And, besides," said Uncle Jerry, philosophizing about it in his homely way, "there's that
little devil of a Carmen, the most fascinating woman I ever knew--it would take the Bank of
England to run her. Why, when I see that Golden House going up, I said I'd give 'em five years
to balloon in it. I was mistaken. They've floated it about eighteen. Some folks are lucky--up
to a certain point."

Grave history gives but a paragraph to a personal celebrity of this sort. When a ship goes
down in a tempest off the New England coast, there is a brief period of public shock and sympathy,
and then the world passes on to other accidents and pleasures; but for months relics of the
great vessel float ashore on lonely headlands or are cast up on sandy beaches, and for years,
in many a home made forlorn by the shipwreck, are aching hearts and an ever-present calamity.

The disaster of the house of Mavick was not accepted without a struggle, lasting long after
the public interest in the spectacle had abated--a struggle to save the ship and then to pick
up some debris from the great wreck. The most pathetic sight in the business world is that
of a bankrupt, old and broken, pursuing with always deluded expectations the remnants of his
fortune, striving to make new combinations, involved in lawsuits, alternately despairing, alternately
hopeful in the chaos of his affairs. This was the fate of Thomas Mavick.

The news was all over Newport in a few hours after it had stricken down Mrs. Mavick. The newspaper
details the morning after were read with that eager interest that the misfortunes of neighbors
always excite. After her first stupor, Mrs. Mavick refused to believe it. It could not be,
and her spirit of resistance rose with the frantic messages she sent to her husband. Alas,
the cold fact of the assignment remained. Still her courage was not quite beaten down. The
suspension could only be temporary. She would not have it otherwise. Two days she showed herself
as usual in Newport, and carried herself bravely. The sympathy looked or expressed was wormwood
to her, but she met it with a reassuring smile. To be sure it was very hard to bear such a
blow, the result of a stock intrigue, but it would soon pass over--it was a temporary embarrassment--that
she said everywhere.

She had not, however, told the news to Evelyn with any such smiling confidence. There was still
rage in her heart against her daughter, as if her obstinacy had some connection with this blow
of fate, and she did not soften the announcement. She expected to sting her, and she did astonish
and she did grieve her, for the breaking-up of her world could not do otherwise; but it was
for her mother and not for herself that Evelyn showed emotion. If their fortune was gone, then
the obstacle was removed that separated her from Philip. The world well lost! This flashed
through her mind before she had fairly grasped the extent of the fatality, and it blunted her
appreciation of it as an unmixed ruin.

"Poor mamma!" was what she said.

"Poor me!" cried Mrs. Mavick, looking with amazement at her daughter, "don't you understand
that our life is all ruined?"

"Yes, that part of it, but we are left. It might have been so much worse."

"Worse? You have no more feeling than a chip. You are a beggar! That is all. What do you mean
by worse?"

"If father had done anything dishonorable!" suggested the girl, timidly, a little scared by
her mother's outburst.

"Evelyn, you are a fool!"

And perhaps she was, with such preposterous notions of what is really valuable in life. There
could be no doubt of it from Mrs. Mavick's point of view.

If Evelyn's conduct exasperated her, the non-appearance of Lord Montague after the publication
of the news seriously alarmed her. No doubt he was shocked, but she could explain it to him,
and perhaps he was too much interested in Evelyn to be thrown off by this misfortune. The third
day she wrote him a note, a familiar, almost affectionate note, chiding him for deserting them
in their trouble. She assured him that the news was greatly exaggerated, the embarrassment
was only temporary, such things were always happening in the Street. "You know," she said,
playfully, "it is our American way to be up in a minute when we seem to be down." She asked
him to call, for she had something that was important to tell him, and, besides, she needed
his counsel as a friend of the house. The note was despatched by a messenger.

In an hour it was returned, unopened, with a verbal message from his host, saying that Lord
Montague had received important news from London, and that he had left town the day before.

"Coward!" muttered the enraged woman, with closed teeth. "Men are all cowards, put them to
the test."

The energetic woman judged from a too narrow basis. Because Mavick was weak--and she had always
secretly despised him for yielding to her--weak as compared with her own indomitable spirit,
she generalized wildly. Her opinion of men would have been modified if she had come in contact
with Murad Ault.

To one man in New York besides Mr. Ault the failure did not seem a personal calamity. When
Philip saw in the steamer departures the name of Lord Montague, his spirits rose in spite of
the thought that the heiress was no longer an heiress. The sky lifted, there was a promise
of fair weather, the storm, for him, had indeed cleared the air.

"Dear Philip," wrote Miss McDonald, "it is really dreadful news, but I cannot be so very downhearted.
It is the least of calamities that could happen to my dear child. Didn't I tell you that it
is always darkest just before the dawn?"

And Philip needed the hope of the dawn. Trial is good for any one, but hopeless suffering for
none. Philip had not been without hope, but it was a visionary indulgence, against all evidence.
It was the hope of youth, not of reason. He stuck to his business doggedly, he stuck to his
writing doggedly, but over all his mind was a cloud, an oppression not favorable to creative
effort--that is, creative effort sweet and not cynical, sunny and not morbid.

And yet, who shall say that this very experience, this oppression of circumstance, was not
the thing needed for the development of the best that was in him? Thrown back upon himself
and denied an airy soaring in the heights of a prosperous fancy, he had come to know himself
and his limitations. And in the year he had learned a great deal about his art. For one thing
he had come to the ground. He was looking more at life as it is. His experience at the publishers
had taught him one important truth, and that is that a big subject does not make a big writer,
that all that any mind can contribute to the general thought of the world in literature is
what is in itself, and if there is nothing in himself it is vain for the writer to go far afield
for a theme. He had seen the young artists, fretting for want of subjects, wandering the world
over in search of an object fitted to their genius, setting up their easels in front of the
marvels of nature and of art, in the expectation that genius would descend upon them.

If they could find something big enough to paint! And he had seen, in exhibition after exhibition,
that the artist who cannot paint a rail-fence cannot paint a pyramid. A man does not become
a good rider by mounting an elephant; ten to one a donkey would suit him better. Philip had
begun to see that the life around him had elements enough of the comic and the tragic to give
full play to all his powers.

He began to observe human beings as he had never done before. There were only two questions,
and they are at the bottom of all creative literature--could he see them, could he make others
see them?

This was all as true before the Mavick failure as after; but, before, what was the use of effort?
Now there was every inducement to effort. Ambition to succeed had taken on him the hold of
necessity. And with a free mind as to the obstacles that lay between him and the realization
of the great dream of his life, the winning of the one woman who could make his life complete,
Philip set to work with an earnestness and a clearness of vision that had never been given
him before.

In the wreck of the Mavick estate, in its distribution, there are one or two things of interest
to the general reader. One of these was the fate of the Golden House, as it was called. Mrs.
Mavick had hurried back to her town house, determined to save it at all hazard. The impossibility
of this was, however, soon apparent even to her intrepid spirit. She would either sacrifice
all else to save it, or--dark thoughts of ending it in a conflagration entered her mind. This
was only her first temper. But to keep the house without a vast fortune to sustain it was an
impossibility, and, as it was the most conspicuous of Mavick's visible possessions, perhaps
the surrender of it, which she could not prevent, would save certain odds and ends here and
there. Whether she liked it or not, the woman learned for once that her will had little to
do with the course of events.

Its destination was gall and wormwood both to Carmen and her husband. For it fell into the
hands of Murad Ault. He coveted it as the most striking symbol of the position he had conquered
in the metropolis. Its semi-barbaric splendor appealed also to his passion for display. And
it was notable that the taste of the rude lad of poverty--this uncultivated offspring of a
wandering gypsy and herb--collector--perhaps she had ancient and noble blood in her veins--should
be the same for material ostentation and luxury as that of the cultivated, fastidious Mavick
and his worldly-minded wife. So persistent is the instinct of barbarism in our modern civilization.

When Ault told his wife what he had done, that sweet, domestic, and sensible woman was very
far from being elated.

"I am almost sorry," she said.

"Sorry for what?" asked Mr. Ault, gently, but greatly surprised.

"For the Mavicks. I don't mean for Mrs. Mavick--I hear she is a worldly and revengeful woman--but
for the girl. It must be dreadful to turn her out of all the surroundings of her happy life.
And I hear she is as good as she is lovely. Think what it would be for our own girls."

"But it can't be helped," said Ault, persuasively. "The house had to be sold, and it makes
no difference who has it, so far as the girl is concerned."

"And don't you fear a little for our own girls, launching out that way?"

"You are afraid they will get lost in that big house?" And Mr. Ault laughed. "It isn't a bit
too big or too good for them. At any rate, my dear, in they go, and you must get ready to move.
The house will be empty in a week."

"Murad," and Mrs. Ault spoke as if she were not thinking of the change for herself, "there
is one thing I wish you would do for me, dear."

"What is that?"

"Go to Mr. Mavick, or to Mrs. Mavick, or the assignees or whoever, and have the daughter--yes,
and her mother--free to take away anything they want, anything dear to them by long association.
Will you?"

"I don't see how. Mavick wouldn't do it for us, and I guess he is too proud to accept anything
from me. I don't owe him anything. And then the property is in the assignment. Whatever is
there I bought with the house."

"I should be so much happier if you could do something about it."

"Well, it don't matter much. I guess the assignees can make Mrs. Mavick believe easy enough
that certain things belong to her. But I would not do it for any other living being but you."

"By-the-way," he added, "there is another bit of property that I didn't take, the Newport palace."

"I should have dreaded that more than the other."

"So I thought. And I have another plan. It's long been in my mind, and we will carry it out
next summer. There is a little plateau on the side of the East Mountain in Rivervale, where
there used to stand a shack of a cabin, with a wild sort of garden-patch about it, a tumble-down
root fence, all in the midst of brush and briers. Lord, what a habitation it was! But such
a view--rivers, mountains, meadows, and orchards in the distance! That is where I lived with
my mother. What a life! I hated everything, everybody but her."

Mr. Ault paused, his strong, dark face working with passion, as the memory of his outlawed
boyhood revived. Is it possible that this pirate of the Street had a bit of sentiment at the
bottom of his heart? After a moment he continued:

"That was the spot to which my mother took me when I was knee-high. I've bought it, bought
the whole hillside. Next summer we will put up a house there, not a very big house, just a
long, low sort of a Moorish pavilion, the architect calls it. I wish she could see it."

Mrs. Ault rose, with tears in her gentle eyes, stood by her husband's chair a moment, ran her
fingers through his heavy black locks, bent down and kissed him, and went away without a word.

There was another bit of property that was not included in the wreck. It belonged to Mrs. Mavick.
This was a little house in Irving Place, in which Carmen Eschelle lived with her mother, in
the days before the death of Henderson's first wife, not very happy days for that wife. Carmen
had a fancy for keeping it after her marriage. Not from any sentiment, she told Mr. Mavick
on the occasion of her second marriage, oh, no, but somehow it seemed to her, in all her vast
possessions left to her by Henderson, the only real estate she had. It was the only thing that
had not passed into the absolute possession and control of Mavick. The great town house, with
all the rest, stood in Mavick's name. What secret influence had he over her that made her submit
to such a foolish surrender?

It was in this little house that the reduced family stowed itself after the downfall. The little
house, had it been sentient, would have been astonished at the entrance into it of the furniture
and the remnants of luxurious living that Mrs. Mavick was persuaded belonged to her personally.
These reminders of former days were, after all, a mockery in the narrow quarters and the pinched
economy of the bankrupt. Yet they were, for a time useful in preserving to Mrs. Mavick a measure
of self-respect, her self-respect having always been based upon what she had and not what she
was. In truth, the change of lot was harder for Mrs. Mavick than for Evelyn, since the world
in which the latter lived had not been destroyed. She still had her books, she still had a
great love in her heart, and hope, almost now a sure hope, that her love would blossom into
a great happiness.

But where was Philip? In all this time why did he make no sign? At moments a great fear came
over her. She was so ignorant of life. Could he know what misery she was in, the daily witness
of her father's broken condition, of her mother's uncertain temper?

XXVI

Is justice done in this world only by a succession of injustices? Is there any law that a wrong
must right a wrong? Did it rebuke the means by which the vast fortune of Henderson was accumulated,
that it was defeated of any good use by the fraud of his wife? Was her action punished by the
same unscrupulous tactics of the Street that originally made the fortune? And Ault? Would a
stronger pirate arise in time to despoil him, and so act as the Nemesis of all violation of
the law of honest relations between men?

The comfort is, in all this struggle of the evil powers, masked as justice, that the Almighty
Ruler of the world does not forget his own, and shows them a smiling face in the midst of disaster.
There is no mystery in this. For the noble part in man cannot be touched in its integrity by
such vulgar disasters as we are considering. In those days when Evelyn saw dissolving about
her the material splendors of her old life, while the Golden House was being dismantled, and
she was taking sad leave of the scenes of her girlhood, so vivid with memory of affection and
of intellectual activity, they seemed only the shell, the casting-off of which gave her freedom.
The sun never shone brighter, there was never such singing in her heart, as on the morning
when she was free to go to Mrs. Van Cortlandt's and throw herself into the arms of her dear
governess and talk of Philip.

Why not? Perhaps she had not that kind of maidenly shyness, sometimes called conventional propriety,
sometimes described as 'mauvaise honte' which a woman of the world would have shown. The impulses
of her heart followed as direct lines as the reasoning of her brain. Was it due to her peculiar
education, education only in the noblest ideas of the race, that she should be a sort of reversion,
in our complicated life, to the type of woman in the old societies (we like to believe there
was such a type as the poets love, the Nausicaas), who were single-minded, as frank to avow
affection as opinion?

"Have you seen him?" she asked.

"No, but he has written."

"And you think he--" the girl had her arms around her friend's neck again, and concealed her
blushing face, "don't make me say it, McDonald."

"Yes, dear, I am sure--I know he does."

There was a little quiver in her form, but it was not of agony; then she put her hands on the
shoulders of her governess, and, looking in her eyes, said:

"When you did see him, how did he look--how did he look?--pretty sad?"

"How could he help it?"

"The dear! But was he well?"

"Splendidly, so he said. Like his old self."

"Tell me," said the girl.

And Miss McDonald went into delightful details, how he looked, how he walked, how his voice
sounded, how he talked, how melancholy he was, and how full of determination he was, his eyes
were so kindly, and his smile was never so sweet as now when there was sadness in it.

"It is very long since," drearily murmured the girl. And then she continued, partly to herself,
partly to Miss McDonald: "He will come now, can't he? Not to that house. Never would I wish
him to set foot in it. But he is not forbidden to come to the place where we are going. Soon,
you think? Perhaps you might hint--oh no, not from me--just your idea. Wouldn't it be natural,
after our misfortune? Perhaps mamma would feel differently after what has happened. Oh, that
Montague! that horrid little man! I think--I think I shall receive him coolly at first, just
to see."

But it was not immediately that the chance for a guileless woman to show her coolness to her
lover was to occur. This postponement was not due to the coolness or to the good sense of Philip.
When the catastrophe came, his first impulse was that of a fireman who plunges into a burning
building to rescue the imperiled inmates. He pictured in his mind a certain nobility of action
in going forward to the unfortunate family with his sympathy, and appearing to them in the
heroic attitude of a man whose love has no alloy of self-interest. They should speedily understand
that it was not the heiress, but the woman, with whom he was in love.

But Miss McDonald understood human nature better than that, at least the nature of Mrs. Mavick.
People of her temperament, humiliated and enraged, are best left alone. The fierceness with
which she would have turned upon any of her society friends who should have presumed to offer
her condolence, however sweetly the condescension were concealed, would have been vented without
mercy upon the man whose presence would have reminded her of her foolish rudeness to him, and
of the bitter failure of her schemes for her daughter. "Wait, wait," said the good counselor,
"until the turmoil has subsided, and the hard pressure of circumstances compels her to look
at things in their natural relations. She is too sore now in--the wreck of all her hopes."

But, indeed, her hopes were not all surrendered in a moment. She had more spirit than her husband
in their calamity. She was, in fact, a born gambler; she had the qualities of her temperament,
and would not believe that courage and luck could not retrieve, at least partially, their fortune.
It seemed incredible in the Street that the widow of Henderson should have given over her property
so completely to her second husband, and it was a surprise to find that there was very little
of value that the assignment of Mavick did not carry with it. The Street did not know the guilty
secret between Mavick and his wife that made them cowards to each other. Nor did it understand
that Carmen was the more venturesome gambler of the two, and that gradually, for the success
of promising schemes, she had thrown one thing after another into the common speculation, until
practically all the property stood in Mavick's name. Was she a fool in this, as so many women
are about their separate property, or was she cheated?

The palace on Fifth Avenue was not even in her name. When she realized that, there was a scene--but
this is not a history of the quarrels of Carmen and her husband after the break-down.

The reader would not be interested--the public of the time were not--in the adjustment of Mavick
and his wife to their new conditions. The broken-down, defeated bankrupt is no novelty in Wall
Street, the man struggling to keep his foothold in the business of the Street, and descending
lower and lower in the scale. The shrewd curbstone broker may climb to a seat in the Stock
Exchange; quite as often a lord of the Board, a commander of millions, may be reduced to the
seedy watcher of the bulletin-board in a bucket-shop.

At first, in the excitement and the confusion, amid the debris of so much possible wealth,
Mavick kept a sort of position, and did not immediately feel the pinch of vulgar poverty. But
the day came when all illusion vanished, and it was a question of providing from day to day
for the small requirements of the house in Irving Place.

It was not a cheerful household; reproaches are hard to bear when physical energy is wanting
to resist them. Mavick had visibly aged during the year. It was only in his office that he
maintained anything of the spruce appearance and 'sang froid' which had distinguished the diplomatist
and the young adventurer. At home he had fallen into the slovenliness that marks a disappointed
old age. Was Mrs. Mavick peevish and unreasonable? Very likely. And had she not reason to be?
Was she, as a woman, any more likely to be reconciled to her fate when her mirror told her,
with pitiless reflection, that she was an old woman?

Philip waited. Under the circumstances would not both Philip and Evelyn have been justified
in disregarding the prohibition that forbade their meeting or even writing to each other? It
may be a nice question, but it did not seem so to these two, who did not juggle with their
consciences. Philip had given his word. Evelyn would tolerate no concealments; she was just
that simple-minded in her filial notions.

The girl, however, had one comfort, and that was the knowledge of Philip through Miss McDonald,
whom she saw frequently, and to whom even Mrs. Mavick was in a manner reconciled. She was often
in the little house in Irving Place. There was nothing in her manner to remind Mrs. Mavick
that she had done her a great wrong, and her cheerfulness and good sense made her presence
and talk a relief from the monotony of the defeated woman's life.

It came about, therefore, that one day Philip made his way down into the city to seek an interview
with Mr. Mavick. He found him, after some inquiry, in a barren little office, occupying one
of the rented desks with three or four habitues of the Street, one of them an old man like
himself, the others mere lads who did not intend to remain long in such cramped quarters.

Mr. Mavick arose when his visitor stood at his desk, buttoned up his frock-coat, and extended
his hand with a show of business cordiality, and motioned him to a chair. Philip was greatly
shocked at the change in Mr. Mavick's appearance.

"I beg your pardon," he said, "for disturbing you in business hours."

"No disturbance," he answered, with something of the old cynical smile on his lips.

"Long ago I called to see you on the errand I have now, but you were not in town. It was, Mr.
Mavick," and Philip hesitated and looked down, "in regard to your daughter."

"Ah, I did not hear of it."

"No? Well, Mr. Mavick, I was pretty presumptuous, for I had no foothold in the city, except
a law clerkship."

"I remember--Hunt, Sharp & Tweedle; why didn't you keep it?"

"I wasn't fitted for the law."

"Oh, literature? Does literature pay?"

"Not in itself, not for many," and Philip forced a laugh. "But it led to a situation in a first-rate
publishing house--an apprenticeship that has now given me a position that seems to be permanent,
with prospects beyond, and a very fair salary. It would not seem much to you, Mr. Mavick,"
and Philip tried to laugh again.

"I don't know," replied Mr. Mavick. "If a fellow has any sort of salary these times, I should
advise him to hold on to it. By-the-way, Mr. Burnett, Hunt's a Republican, isn't he?"

"He was," replied Philip, "the last I knew."

"Do you happen to know whether he knows Bilbrick, the present Collector?"

"Mr. Bilbrick used to be a client of his."

"Just so. I think I'll see Hunt. A salary isn't a bad thing for a--for a man who has retired
pretty much from business. But you were saying, Mr. Burnett?"

"I was going to say, Mr. Mavick, that there was a little something more than my salary that
I can count on pretty regularly now from the magazines, and I have had another story, a novel,
accepted, and--you won't think me vain--the publisher says it will go; if it doesn't have a
big sale he will--"

"Make it up to you?"

"Not exactly," and Philip laughed; "he will be greatly mistaken."

"I suppose it is a kind of lottery, like most things. The publishers have to take risks. The
only harm I wish them is that they were compelled to read all the stuff they try to make us
read. Ah, well. Mr. Burnett, I hope you have made a hit. It is pretty much the same thing in
our business. The publisher bulls his own book and bears the other fellow's. Is it a New York
story?"

"Partly; things come to a focus here, you know."

"I could give you points. It's a devil of a place. I guess the novelists are too near to see
the romance of it. When I was in Rome I amused myself by diving into the mediaeval records.
Steel and poison were the weapons then. We have a different method now, but it comes to the
same thing, and we say we are more civilized. I think our way is more devilishly dramatic than
the old brute fashion. Yes, I could give you points."

"I should be greatly obliged," said Philip, seeing the way to bring the conversation back to
its starting point; "your wide experience of life--if you had leisure at home some time."

"Oh," replied Mavick, with more good-humor in his laugh than he had shown before, "you needn't
beat about the bush. Have you seen Evelyn?"

"No, not since that dinner at the Van Cortlandts'."

"Huh! for myself, I should be pleased to see you any time, Mr. Burnett. Mrs. Mavick hasn't
felt like seeing anybody lately. But I'll see, I'll see."

The two men rose and shook hands, as men shake hands when they have an understanding.

"I'm glad you are doing well," Mr. Mavick added; "your life is before you, mine is behind me;
that makes a heap of difference."

Within a few days Philip received a note from Mrs. Mavick--not an effusive note, not an explanatory
note, not an apologetic note, simply a note as if nothing unusual had happened--if Mr. Burnett
had leisure, would he drop in at five o'clock in Irving Place for a cup of tea?

Not one minute by his watch after the hour named, Philip rang the bell and was shown into a
little parlor at the front. There was only one person in the room, a lady in exquisite toilet,
who rose rather languidly to meet him, exactly as if the visitor were accustomed to drop in
to tea at that hour.

Philip hesitated a moment near the door, embarrassed by a mortifying recollection of his last
interview with Mrs. Mavick, and in that moment he saw her face. Heavens, what a change! And
yet it was a smiling face.

There is a portrait of Carmen by a foreign artist, who was years ago the temporary fashion
in New York, painted the year after her second marriage and her return from Rome, which excited
much comment at the time. Philip had seen it in more than one portrait exhibition.

Its technical excellence was considerable. The artist had evidently intended to represent a
woman piquant and fascinating, if not strictly beautiful. Many persons said it was lovely.
Other critics said that, whether the artist intended it or not, he had revealed the real character
of the subject. There was something sinister in its beauty. One artist, who was out of fashion
as an idealist, said, of course privately, that the more he looked at it the more hideous it
became to him--like one of Blake's objective portraits of a "soul"--the naked soul of an evil
woman showing through the mask of all her feminine fascinations--the possible hell, so he put
it, under a woman's charm.

It was this in the portrait that Philip saw in the face smiling a welcome--like an old, sweetly
smiling Lalage--from which had passed away youth and the sustaining consciousness of wealth
and of a place in the great world. The smile was no longer sweet, though the words from the
lips were honeyed.

"It is very good of you to drop in in this way, Mr. Burnett," she said, as she gave him her
hand. "It is very quiet down here."

"It is to me the pleasantest part of the city."

"You think so now. I thought so once," and there was a note of sadness in her voice. "But it
isn't New York. It is a place for the people who are left."

"But it has associations."

"Yes, I know. We pretend that it is more aristocratic. That means the rents are lower. It is
a place for youth to begin and for age to end. We seem to go round in a circle. Mr. Mavick
began in the service of the government, now he has entered it again--ah, you did not know?--a
place in the Custom-House. He says it is easier to collect other people's revenues than your
own. Do you know, Mr. Burnett, I do not see much use in collecting revenues anyway--so far
as New York is concerned the people get little good of them. Look out there at that cloud of
dust in the street."

Mrs. Mavick rambled on in the whimsical, cynical fashion of old ladies when they cease to have
any active responsibility in life and become spectators of it. Their remaining enjoyment is
the indulgence of frank speech.

"But I thought," Philip interrupted, "that this part of the town was specially New York."

"New York!" cried Carmen, with animation. "The New York of the newspapers, of the country imagination;
the New York as it is known in Paris is in Wall Street and in the palaces up-town. Who are
the kings of Wall Street, and who build the palaces up-town? They say that there are no Athenians
in Athens, and no Romans in Rome. How many New-Yorkers are there in New York? Do New-Yorkers
control the capital, rule the politics, build the palaces, direct the newspapers, furnish the
entertainment, manufacture the literature, set the pace in society? Even the socialists and
mobocrats are not native. Successive invaders, as in Rome, overrun and occupy the town.

"No, Mr. Burnett, I have left the existing New York. How queer it is to think about it. My
first husband was from New Hampshire. My second husband was from Illinois. And there is your
Murad Ault. The Lord knows where he came from.

"Talk about the barbarians occupying Rome! Look at that Ault in a palace! Who was that emperor--Caligula?--I
am like the young lady from a finishing-school who said she never could remember which came
first in history, Greece or Rome--who stabled his horses with stalls and mangers of gold? The
Aults stable themselves that way. Ah, me! Let me give you a cup of tea. Even that is English."

"It's an innocent pastime," she continued, as Philip stirred his tea, in perplexity as to how
he should begin to say what he had to say--"you won't object if I light a cigarette? One ought
to retain at least one bad habit to keep from spiritual pride. Tea is an excuse for this. I
don't think it a bad habit, though some people say that civilization is only exchanging one
bad habit for another. Everything changes."

"I don't think I have changed, Mrs. Mavick," said Philip, with earnestness.

"No? But you will. I have known lots of people who said they never would change. They all did.
No, you need not protest. I believe in you now, or I should not be drinking tea with you. But
you must be tired of an old woman's gossip. Evelyn has gone out for a walk; she didn't know.
I expect her any minute. Ah, I think that is her ring. I will let her in. There is nothing
so hateful as a surprise."

She turned and gave Philip her hand, and perhaps she was sincere--she had a habit of being
so when it suited her interests--when she said, "There are no bygones, my friend."

Philip waited, his heart beating a hundred to the minute. He heard greetings and whisperings
in the passage-way, and then--time seemed to stand still--the door opened and Evelyn stood
on the threshold, radiant from her walk, her face flushed, the dainty little figure poised
in timid expectation, in maidenly hesitation, and then she stepped forward to meet his advance,
with welcome in her great eyes, and gave him her hand in the old-fashioned frankness.

"I am so glad to see you."

Philip murmured something in reply and they were seated.

That was all. It was so different from the meeting as Philip had a hundred times imagined it.

"It has been very long," said Philip, who was devouring the girl with his eyes, "very long to me."

"I thought you had been very busy," she replied, demurely. Her composure was very irritating.

"If you thought about it at all, Miss Mavick."

"That is not like you, Mr. Burnett," Evelyn replied, looking up suddenly with troubled eyes.

"I didn't mean that," said Philip, moving uneasily in his chair, "I--so many things have happened.
You know a person can be busy and not happy."

"I know that. I was not always happy," said the girl, with the air of making a confession.
"But I liked to hear from time to time of the success of my friends," she added, ingenuously.
And then, quite inconsequently, "I suppose you have news from Rivervale?"

Yes, Philip heard often from Alice, and he told the news as well as he could, and the talk
drifted along--how strange it seemed!--about things in which neither of them felt any interest
at the moment. Was there no way to break the barrier that the little brown girl had thrown
around herself? Were all women, then, alike in parrying and fencing? The talk went on, friendly
enough at last, about a thousand things. It might have been any afternoon call on a dear friend.
And at length Philip rose to go.

"I hope I may see you again, soon."

"Of course," said Evelyn, cheerfully. "I am sure father will be delighted to see you. He enjoys
so little now."

He had taken both her hands to say good-by, and was looking hungrily into her eyes.

"I can't go so. Evelyn, you know, you must know, I love you."

And before the girl comprehended him he had drawn her to him and pressed his lips upon hers.

The girl started back as if stung, and looked at him with flashing eyes.

"What have you done, what have you done to me?"

Her eyes were clouded, and she put her hands to her face, trembling, and then with a cry, as
of a soul born into the world, threw herself upon him, her arms around his neck--"Philip, Philip,
my Philip!"

XXVII

Perhaps Philip's announcement of his good-fortune to Alice and to Celia was not very coherent,
but his meaning was plain. Perhaps he was conscious that the tidings would not increase the
cheerfulness of Celia's single-handed struggle for the ideal life; at least, he would rather
write than tell her face to face.

However he put the matter to her, with what protestations of affectionate friendship and trust
he wrapped up the statement that he made as matter of fact as possible, he could not conceal
the ecstatic state of his mind.

Nothing like it certainly had happened to anybody in the world before. All the dream of his
boyhood, romantic and rose-colored, all the aspirations of his manhood, for recognition, honor,
a place in the life of his time, were mere illusions compared to this wonderful crown of life--a
woman's love. Where did it come from into this miserable world, this heavenly ray, this pure
gift out of the divine beneficence, this spotless flower in a humanity so astray, this sure
prophecy of the final redemption of the world? The immeasurable love of a good woman! And to
him! Philip felt humble in his exaltation, charitable in his selfish appropriation. He wanted
to write to Celia--but he did not--that he loved her more than ever. But to Alice he could
pour out his wealth of affection, quickened to all the world by this great love, for he knew
that her happiness would be in his happiness.

The response from Alice was what he expected, tender, sweet, domestic, and it was full of praise
of Evelyn, of love for her. "Perhaps, dear Phil," she wrote, "I shall love her more than I
do you. I almost think--did I not remember what a bad boy you could be sometimes--that each
one of you is too good for the other. But, Phil, if you should ever come to think that she
is not too good for you, you will not be good enough for her. I can't think she is perfect,
any more than you are perfect--you will find that she is just a woman--but there is nothing
in all life so precious as such a heart as hers. You will come here, of course, and at once,
whenever it is. You know that big, square, old-fashioned corner chamber, with the high-poster.
That is yours. Evelyn never saw it. The morning and the evening sun shoot across it, and the
front windows look on the great green crown of Mount Peak. You know it. There is not such a
place in the world to hear the low and peaceful murmur of the river, all night long, rushing,
tumbling, crooning, I used to think when I was a little girl and dreamed of things unseen,
and still going on when the birds begin to sing in the dawn. And with Evelyn! Dear Phil!"

It was in another strain, but not less full of real affection, that Celia wrote:

"I am not going to congratulate you. You are long past the need of that. But you know that
I am happy in having you happy. You thought I never saw anything? I wonder if men are as blind
as they seem to be? And I had fears. Do you know a man ought to build his own monument. If
he goes into a monument built for him, that is the end of him. Now you can work, and you will.
I am so glad she isn't an heiress any more. I guess there was a curse on that fortune. But
she has eluded it. I believe all you tell me about her. Perhaps there are more such women in
the world than you think. Some day I shall know her, and soon. I do long to see her. Love her
I feel sure I shall.

"You ask about myself. I am the same, but things change. When I get my medical diploma I shall
decide what to do. My little property just suffices, with economy, and I enjoy economy. I doubt
if I do any general practice for pay. There are so many young doctors that need the money for
practice more than I do. And perhaps taking it up as a living would make me sort of hard and
perfunctory. And there is so much to do in this great New York among the unfortunate that a
woman who knows medicine can do better than any one else.

"Ah, me, I am happy in a way, or I expect to be. Everybody--it isn't because I am a woman I
say this--needs something to lean on now and then. There isn't much to lean on in the college,
nor in many of my zealous and ambitious companions there. There is more faith in the poor people
down in the wards where I go. They are kind to each other, and most of them, not all, believe
in something. They, have that, at any rate, in all their trials and poverty. Philip, don't
despise the invisible. I have got into the habit of going into a Catholic church down there,
when I am tired and discouraged, and getting the peace of it. It is a sort of open door! You
need not jump to the conclusion that I am 'going over.' Maybe I am going back. I don't know.
I have always you know, been looking for something.

"I like to sit there in that dim quiet and think of things I can't think of elsewhere. Do you
think I am queer? Philip, all women are queer. They haven't yet been explained. That is the
reason why the novelists find it next to impossible, with all the materials at hand, to make
a good woman--that is a woman. Do you know what it is to want what you don't want? Longing
is one thing and reason another.

"Perhaps I have depended too much on my reason. If you long to go to a place where you will
have peace, why should you let what you call your reason stand in the way? Perhaps your reason
is foolishness. You will laugh a little at this, and say that I am tired. No. Only I am not
so sure of things as I used to be. Do you remember when we children used to sit under that
tree by the Deerfield, how confident I was that I understood all about life, and my airs of
superiority?

"Well, I don't know as much now. But there is one thing that has survived and grown with the
years, and that, Philip, is your dear friendship."

What was it in this unassuming, but no doubt sufficiently conceited and ambitious, young fellow
that he should have the affection, the love, of three such women?

Is affection as whimsically, as blindly distributed as wealth? It is the experience of life
that it is rare to keep either to the end, but as a man is judged not so much by his ability
to make money as to keep it, so it is fair to estimate his qualities by his power to retain
friendship. New York is full of failures, bankrupts in fortune and bankrupts in affection,
but this melancholy aspect of the town is on the surface, and is not to be considered in comparison
with the great body of moderately contented, moderately successful, and on the whole happy
households. In this it is a microcosm of the world.

To Evelyn and Philip, judging the world a good deal by each other, in those months before their
marriage, when surprising perfection and new tenderness were daily developed, the gay and busy
city seemed a sort of paradise.

Mysterious things were going on in the weeks immediately preceding the wedding. There was a
conspiracy between Miss McDonald and Philip in the furnishing and setting in order a tiny apartment
on the Heights, overlooking the city, the lordly Hudson, and its romantic hills. And when,
after the ceremony, on a radiant afternoon in early June, the wedded lovers went to their new
home, it was the housekeeper, the old governess, who opened the door and took into her arms
the child she had loved and lost awhile.

This fragment of history leaves Philip Burnett on the threshold of his career. Those who know
him only by his books may have been interested in his experiences, in the merciful interposition
of disaster, before he came into the great fortune of the love of Evelyn Mavick.