"You here, Miss Munro, and at this hour of the night!" was the wondering inquiry, as he lifted
her from the floor, her limbs, trembling with agitation, scarcely able to support even her
slender form.

"Forgive me, sir, forgive me. Think not ill of me, I pray you. I come to save you,--indeed,
Mr. Colleton, I do--and nothing, believe me, would have brought me here but the knowledge of
your immediate danger."

She felt the delicacy of her situation, and recognising her motive readily, we will do him
the justice to say, Ralph felt it too in the assurance of her lips. A respectful delicacy pervaded
his manner as he inquired earnestly:--

"What is this danger, Miss Munro? I believe you fear for me, but may you not have exaggerated
the cause of alarm to yourself? What have I to fear--from what would you save me?"

"Nay, ask me not, sir, but fly. There is but little time for explanation, believe me. I know
and do not imagine the danger. I can not tell you all, nor can you with safety bestow the time
to hear. Your murderers are awake--they are in this very house, and nothing but instant flight
can save you from their hands."

"But from whom, Miss Munro, am I to fear all this? What has given you this alarm, which, until
you can give me some clue to this mystery, I must regard as unadvised and without foundation.
I feel the kindness and interest of your solicitude--deeply feel, and greatly respect it; but,
unless you can give me some reasonable ground for your fears, I must be stubborn in resisting
a connection which would have me fly like a midnight felon, without having seen the face of
my foe."

"Oh, heed not these false scruples. There is no shame in such a flight, and believe me, sir,
I speak not unadvisedly. Nothing, but the most urgent and immediate danger would have prompted
me, at this hour, to come here. If you would survive this night, take advantage of the warning
and fly. This moment you must determine--I know not, indeed, if it be not too late even now
for your extrication. The murderers, by this time, may be on the way to your chamber, and they
will not heed your prayers, and they will scorn any defence which you might offer."

"But who are they of whom you speak, Miss Munro? If I must fly, let me at least know from what
and whom. What are my offences, and whom have I offended?"

"That is soon told, though I fear, sir, we waste the time in doing so. You have offended Rivers,
and you know but little of him if you think it possible for him to forget or forgive where
once injured, however slightly. The miners generally have been taught to regard you as one
whose destruction alone can insure their safety from punishment for their late aggressions.
My uncle too, I grieve to say it, is too much under the influence of Rivers, and does indeed
just what his suggestions prescribe. They have plotted your death, and will not scruple at
its performance. They are even now below meditating its execution. By the merest good fortune
I overheard their design, from which I feel persuaded nothing now can make them recede. Rely
not on their fear of human punishment. They care perhaps just as little for the laws of man
as of God, both of which they violate hourly with impunity, and from both of which they have
always hitherto contrived to secure themselves. Let me entreat, therefore, that you will take
no heed of that manful courage which would be honorable and proper with a fair enemy. Do not
think that I am a victim to unmeasured and womanly fears. I have seen too much of the doings
of these men, not to feel that no fancies of mine can do them injustice. They would murder
you in your bed, and walk from the scene of their crime with confidence into the very courts
of justice."

"I believe you, Miss Munro, and nothing doubt the correctness of your opinion with regard to
the character of these men. Indeed, I have reason to know that what you say of Rivers, I have
already realized in my own person. This attempt, if he makes it, will be the second in which
he has put my life in hazard, and I believe him, therefore, not too good for any attempt of
this evil nature. But why may I not defend myself from the assassins? I can make these logs
tenable till daylight from all their assaults, and then I should receive succor from the villagers
without question. You see, too, I have arms which may prove troublesome to an enemy."

"Trust not these chances; let me entreat that you rely not upon them. Were you able, as you
say, to sustain yourself for the rest of the night in this apartment, there would be no relief
in the morning, for how would you make your situation understood? Many of the villagers will
have flown before to-morrow into the nation, until the pursuit is well over, which will most
certainly be commenced before long. Some of them have already gone, having heard of the approach
of the residue of the Georgia guard, to which the survivors at the late affair bore the particulars.
Those who venture to remain will not come nigh this house, dreading to be involved in the difficulties
which now threaten its occupants. Their caution would only be the more increased on hearing
of any commotion. Wait not, therefore, I implore you, for the dawning of the day: it could
never dawn to you. Rivers I know too well; he would overreach you by some subtlety or other;
and how easy, even while we speak, to shoot you down through these uneven logs. Trust not,
trust not, I entreat you; there is a sure way of escape, and you still have time, if at once
you avail yourself of it."

The maid spoke with earnestness and warmth, for the terrors of her mind had given animation
to her anxiety, while she sought to persuade the somewhat stubborn youth into the proposed
and certainly judicious flight she contemplated for him. Her trepidation had made her part
with much of that retreating timidity which had usually distinguished her manner; and perfectly
assured herself of the causes of her present apprehension, she did not scruple to exhibit--indeed
she did not seem altogether conscious of--the deep interest which she took in the fate and
fortunes of him who stood beside her.

Flattered as he must have been by the marked feeling, which she could neither disguise nor
he mistake, the youth did not, how ever, for a moment seek to abuse it; but with a habit at
once gentle and respectful, combated the various arguments and suggestions which, with a single
eye to his safety, she urged for his departure. In so doing, he obtained from her all the particulars
of her discovery, and was at length convinced that her apprehensions were by no means groundless.
She had accidentally come upon the conspirators at an interesting moment in their deliberations,
which at once revealed their object and its aim; and he at length saw that, except in flight,
according to her proposition, the chances were against his escape at all. While they thus deliberated,
the distant sound of a chair falling below, occurring at an hour so unusual, gave an added
force to her suggestions, and while it prompted anew her entreaties, greatly diminished his
reluctance to the flight.

"I will do just as you advise. I know not, Miss Munro, why my fate and fortune should have
provoked in you such an interest, unless it be that yours being a less selfish sex than ours,
you are not apt to enter into calculations as to the loss of quiet or of personal risk, which,
in so doing, you may incur. Whatever be the motive, however, I am grateful for its effects,
and shall not readily forget the gentleness of that spirit which has done so much for the solace
and the safety of one so sad in its aspect and so much a stranger in all respects."

The youth spoke with a tone and manner the most tender yet respectful, which necessarily relieved
from all perplexity that feeling of propriety and maiden delicacy which otherwise must have
made her situation an awkward one. Ralph was not so dull, however, as not to perceive that
to a livelier emotion he might in justice attribute the conduct of his companion; but, with
a highly-honorable fastidiousness, he himself suggested a motive for her proceeding which her
own delicacy rendered improper for her utterance. Still the youth was not marble exactly: and,
as he spoke, his arm gently encircled her waist; and her form, as if incapable of its own support,
hung for a moment, with apathetic lifelessness, upon his bosom; while her head, with an impulse
not difficult to define, drooped like a bending and dewy lily upon his arm. But the passive
emotion, if we may so style it, was soon over; and, with an effort, in which firmness and feebleness
strongly encountered, she freed herself from his hold with an erect pride of manner, which
gave a sweet finish to the momentary display which she had made of womanly weakness. Her voice,
as she called upon him to follow her into the passage, was again firm in a moment, and pervaded
by a cold ease which seemed to him artificial:--

"There is but little time left you now, sir, for escape: it were criminal not to use it. Follow
me boldly, but cautiously--I will lead the way--the house is familiar to me, in night and day,
and there must be no waste of time."

He would have resisted this conduct, and himself taken the lead in the advance; but, placing
her small and trembling hand upon his arm, she insisted upon the course she had prescribed,
and in a manner which he did not venture to resist. Their steps were slow into the open space
which, seeming as an introduction to, at the same time separated the various chambers of the
dwelling, and terminated in the large and cumbrous stairway which conducted to the lower story,
and to which their course was now directed. The passage was of some length, but with cautious
tread they proceeded in safety and without noise to the head of the stairway, when the maiden,
who still preserved the lead, motioned him back, retreating herself, as she did so, into the
cover of a small recess, formed by the stairs, which it partially overhung, and presenting
a doubtful apology for a closet. Its door hung upon a broken and single hinge, unclosed--leaving,
however, so small an aperture, that it might be difficult to account for their entrance.

There, amid the dust and mystery of time-worn household trumpery, old saddles, broken bridles,
and more than one dismembered harness, they came to a pause, and were enabled now to perceive
the realization in part of her apprehensions. A small lantern, the rays of light from which
feebly made their way through a single square in front, disclosed to the sight the dim forms
of the two assassins, moving upward to the contemplated deed of blood.

The terrors of Lucy, as she surveyed their approach, were great; but, with a mind and spirit
beyond those commonly in the possession of her sex, she was enabled to conquer and rise above
them; and, though her heart beat with a thick and hurried apprehension, her soul grew calmer
the more closely approached the danger. Her alarm, to the mind of Ralph, was now sufficiently
justified, as, looking through a crevice in the narrow apartment in which he stood, he beheld
the malignant and hell-branded visage of Rivers, peering like a dim and baleful light in advance
of his companion, in whose face a partial glimmer of the lamp revealed a something of reluctance,
which rendered it doubtful how far Munro had in reality gone willingly on the task.

It was, under all the circumstances, a curious survey for the youth. He was a man of high passions,
sudden of action, impetuous and unhesitating. In a fair field, he would not have been at a
loss for a single moment; but here, the situation was so new, that he was more and more undetermined
in his spirit. He saw them commissioned with his murder--treading, one by one, the several
steps below him--approaching momently higher and higher--and his heart beat audibly with conflicting
emotions; while with one hand he grasped convulsively and desperately the handle of his dirk,
the other being fully employed in sustaining the almost fainting form of his high-souled but
delicate companion. He felt that, if discovered, he could do little in his defence and against
assault; and though without a thought but that of fierce struggle to the last, his reason taught
him to perceive with how little hope of success.

As the assassins continued to advance, he could distinctly trace every change of expression
in their several countenances. In that of Rivers, linked with the hideousness that his wound
conferred upon it, he noted the more wicked workings of a spirit, the fell character of whose
features received no moderate exaggeration from the dim and flickering glare of the lamp which
his hand unsteadily carried. The whole face had in it something awfully fearful. He seemed,
in its expression, already striking the blow at the breast of his victim, or rioting with a
fiendish revenge in his groaned agonies. A brief dialogue between his companion and himself
more fully describes the character of the monster.

"Stay--you hurry too much in this matter," said Munro, putting his hand on that of Rivers,
and restraining his steps for a moment as he paused, seemingly to listen. He continued--

"Your hand trembles, Rivers, and you let your lamp dance about too much to find it useful.
Your footstep is unsteady, and but now the stairs creaked heavily beneath you. You must proceed
with more caution, or we shall be overheard. These are sleepless times, and this youth, who
appears to trouble you more than man ever troubled you before, may be just as much awake as
ourselves. If you are determined in this thing, be not imprudent."

Rivers, who, on reaching the head of the flight, had been about to move forward precipitately,
now paused, though with much reluctance; and to the speech of his companion, with a fearful
expression of the lips, which, as they parted, disclosed the teeth white and closely clinched
beneath them, replied, though without directly referring to its import--

"If I am determined--do you say!--But is not that the chamber where he sleeps?"

"No; old Barton sleeps there--he sleeps at the end of the gallery. Be calm--why do you work
your fingers in that manner?"

"See you not my knife is in them? I thought at that moment that it was between his ribs, and
working about in his heart. It was a sweet fancy, and, though I could not hear his groans as
I stooped over him to listen, I almost thought I felt them."

The hand of the maiden grasped that of Ralph convulsively as these muttered words came to their
ears, and her respiration grew more difficult and painful. He shuddered at the vindictive spirit
which the wretch exhibited, while his own, putting on a feller and a fiercer temper, could
scarcely resist the impulse which would have prompted him at once to rush forth and stab him
where he stood. But the counsels of prudence had their influence, and he remained quiet and
firm. The companion of the ruffian felt no less than his other hearers the savage nature of
his mood, as thus, in his own way, he partially rebuked it:

"These are horrid fancies, Rivers--more like those which we should look to find in a panther
than in a man; and you delight in them quite too much. Can you not kill your enemy without
drinking his blood?"

"And where then would be the pleasure of revenge?"--he muttered, between his closed teeth.
"The soldier who in battle slays his opponent, hates him not--he has no personal animosity
to indulge. The man has never crossed his path in love or in ambition--yet he shoots him down,
ruthlessly and relentlessly. Shall he do no more who hates, who fears, who sickens at the sight
of the man who has crossed his path in love and in ambition? I tell you, Munro, I hate this
boy--this beardless, this overweening and insolent boy. He has overthrown, he has mortified
me, where I alone should have stood supreme and supereminent. He has wronged me--it may be
without intention; but, what care I for that qualification. Shall it be less an evil because
he by whom it is perpetrated has neither the soul nor the sense to be conscious of his error.
The child who trifles with the powder-match is lessoned by the explosion which destroys him.
It must be so with him. I never yet forgave a wrong, however slight and unimportant--I never
will. It is not in my nature to do so; and as long as this boy can sleep at night, I can not.
I will not seek to sleep until he is laid to rest for ever!"

The whole of this brief dialogue, which had passed directly beside the recess in which the
maiden and youth had taken shelter, was distinctly audible to them both. The blood of Ralph
boiled within him at this latter speech of the ruffian, in which he avowed a spirit of such
dire malignity, as, in its utter disproportionateness to the supposed offence of the youth,
could only have been sanctioned by the nature which he had declared to have always been his
prompter; and, at its close, the arm of the youth, grasping his weapon, was involuntarily stretched
forth, and an instant more would have found it buried in the bosom of the wretch--but the action
did not escape the quick eye of his companion, who, though trembling with undiminished terror,
was yet mistress of all her senses, and perceived the ill-advised nature of his design. With
a motion equally involuntary and sudden with his own, her taper fingers grasped his wrist,
and her eyes bright with dewy lustres, were directed upward, sweetly and appealingly to those
which now bent themselves down upon her. In that moment of excitement and impending terror,
a consciousness of her situation and a sense of shame which more than ever agitated her, rushed
through her mind, and she leaned against the side of the closet for that support for which
her now revived and awakened scruples forbade any reference to him from whom she had so recently
received it. Still, there was nothing abrupt or unkind in her manner, and the youth did not
hesitate again to place his arm around and in support of the form which, in reality, needed
his strength. In doing so, however, a slight noise was the consequence, which the quick sense
of Rivers readily discerned.

"Hark!--heard you nothing, Munro--no sound? Hear you no breathing?--It seems at hand--in that
closet."

"Thou hast a quick ear to-night, Guy, as well as a quick step. I heard, and hear nothing, save
the snorings of old Barton, whose chamber is just beside you to the left. He has always had
a reputation for the wild music which his nose contrives, during his sleep, to keep up in his
neighborhood."

"It came from the opposite quarter, Munro, and was not unlike the suppressed respiration of
one who listens."

"Pshaw! that can not be. There is no chamber there. That is but the old closet in which we
store away lumber. You are quite too regardful of your senses. They will keep us here all night,
and the fact is, I wish the business well over."

"Where does Lucy sleep?"

"In the off shed-room below. What of her?"

"Of her--oh nothing!" and Rivers paused musingly in the utterance of this reply, which fell
syllable by syllable from his lips. The landlord proceeded:--

"Pass on, Rivers; pass on: or have you determined better about this matter? Shall the youngster
live? Indeed, I see not that his evidence, even if he gives it, which I very much doubt, can
do us much harm, seeing that a few days more will put us out of the reach of judge and jury alike."

"You would have made a prime counsellor and subtle disputant, Munro, worthy of the Philadelphia
lawyers," returned the other, in a sneer. "You think only of one part of this subject, and
have no passions, no emotions: you can talk all day long on matters of feeling, without showing
any. Did I not say but now, that while that boy slept I could not?"

"Are you sure that when he ceases to sleep the case will be any better?"

The answer to this inquiry was unheard, as the pair passed on to the tenantless chamber. Watching
their progress, and under the guidance of the young maiden, who seemed endued with a courage
and conduct worthy of more experience and a stronger sex, the youth emerged from his place
of precarious and uncomfortable concealment, and descended to the lower floor. A few moments
sufficed to throw the saddle upon his steed, without arousing the sable groom; and having brought
him under the shadow of a tree at some little distance from the house, he found no further
obstruction in the way of his safe and sudden flight. He had fastened the door of his chamber
on leaving it, with much more caution than upon retiring for the night; and having withdrawn
the key, which he now hurled into the woods, he felt assured that, unless the assassins had
other than the common modes of entry, he should gain a little time from the delay they would
experience from this interruption; and this interval, returning to the doorway, he employed
in acknowledgments which were well due to the young and trembling woman who stood beside him.

"Take this little token, sweet Lucy," said he, throwing about her neck the chain and casket
which he had unbound from his own--"take this little token of Ralph Colleton's gratitude for
this night's good service. I shall redeem it, if I live, at a more pleasant season, but you
must keep it for me now. I will not soon forget the devotedness with which, on this occasion,
you have perilled so much for a stranger. Should we never again meet, I pray you to remember
me in your prayers, and I shall always remember you in mine."

He little knew, while he thus spoke in a manner so humbly of himself, of the deep interest
which his uniform gentleness of manner and respectful deference, so different from what she
had been accustomed to encounter, had inspired in her bosom; and so small at this period was
his vanity, that he did not trust himself for a moment to regard the conjecture--which ever
and anon thrust itself upon him--that the fearless devotion of the maiden in his behalf and
for his safety, had in reality a far more selfish origin than the mere general humanity of
her sex and spirit. We will not say that she would not have done the same by any other member
of the human family in like circumstances; but it is not uncharitable to believe that she would
have been less anxiously interested, less warm in her interest, and less pained in the event
of an unfortunate result.

Clasping the gorgeous chain about her neck, his arm again gently encircled her waist, her head
drooped upon her bosom--she did not speak--she appeared scarcely to feel. For a moment, life
and all its pulses seemed resolutely at a stand; and with some apprehensions, the youth drew
her to his bosom, and spoke with words full of tenderness. She made no answer to his immediate
speech; but her hands, as if unconsciously, struck the spring which locked the casket that
hung upon the chain, and the miniature lay open before her, the dim light of the moon shining
down upon it. She reclosed it suddenly, and undoing it from the chain, placed it with a trembling
hand in his own; and with an effort of calm and quiet playfulness, reminded him of the unintended
gift. He received it, but only to place it again in her hand, reuniting it to the chain.

"Keep it," said he, "Miss Munro--keep it until I return to reclaim it. It will be as safe in
your hands--much safer, indeed, than in mine. She whose features it describes will not chide,
that, at a moment of peril, I place it in the care of one as gentle as herself."

Her eyes were downcast, as, again receiving it, she inquired with a girlish curiosity, "Is
her name Edith, Mr. Colleton, of whom these features are the likeness!"

The youth, surprised by the question, met the inquiry with another.

"How know you?--wherefore do you ask?"

She saw his astonishment, and with a calm which had not, during the whole scene between them,
marked her voice or demeanor, she replied instantly:--

"No matter--no matter, sir. I know not well why I put the question--certainly with no object,
and am now more than answered."

The youth pondered over the affair in silence for a few moments, but desirous of satisfying
the curiosity of the maiden, though on a subject and in relation to one of whom he had sworn
himself to silence--wondering, at the same time, not less at the inquiry than the knowledge
which it conveyed, of that which he had locked up, as he thought, in the recesses of his own
bosom--was about to reply, when a hurried step, and sudden noise from the upper apartment of
the house, warned them of the dangers of further delay. The maiden interrupted with rapid tones
the speech he was about to commence:--

"Fly, sir--fly. There is no time to be lost. You have lingered too long already. Do not hesitate
longer--you have heard the determination of Rivers--this disappointment will only make him
more furious. Fly, then, and speak not. Take the left road at the fork: it leads to the river.
It is the dullest, and if they pursue, they will be most likely to fall into the other."

"Farewell, then, my good, my protecting angel--I shall not forget you--have no apprehensions
for me--I have now but few for myself. Yet, ere I go--" and he bent down, and before she was
conscious of his design, his lips were pressed warmly to her pale and beautiful forehead. "Be
not vexed--chide me not," he murmured--"regard me as a brother--if I live I shall certainly
become one. Farewell!"

Leaping with a single bound to his saddle, he stood erect for a moment, then vigorously applying
his spurs, he had vanished in an instant from the sight. She paused in the doorway until the
sounds of his hurrying progress had ceased to fall upon her ears; then, with a mournful spirit
and heavy step, slowly re-entered the apartment.

CHAPTER XX.

THE OUTLAW AND HIS VICTIM.

Lucy Munro re-entered the dwelling at a moment most inopportune. It was not less her obvious
policy than desire--prompted as well by the necessity of escaping the notice and consequent
suspicions of those whom she had defrauded of their prey, as by a due sense of that delicate
propriety which belonged to her sex, and which her education, as the reader will have conjectured,
had taught her properly to estimate--that made her now seek to avoid scrutiny or observation
at the moment of her return. Though the niece, and now under the sole direction and authority
of Munro, she was the child of one as little like that personage in spirit and pursuit as may
well be imagined. It is not necessary that we should dwell more particularly upon this difference.
It happened with the two brothers, as many of us have discovered in other cases, that their
mental and moral make, though seemingly under the same tutorship, was widely dissimilar. The
elder Munro, at an early period in life, broke through all restraints--defied all responsibilities--scorned
all human consequences--took no pride or pleasure in any of its domestic associations--and
was only known as a vicious profligate, with whom nothing might be done in the way of restraint
or reformation. When grown to manhood, he suddenly left his parental home, and went, for a
time, no one could say whither. When heard of, it appeared from all accounts that his licentiousness
of habit had not deserted him: still, however, it had not, as had been anticipated, led to
any fearful or very pernicious results. Years passed on, the parents died, and the brothers
grew more than ever separate; when, in different and remote communities, they each took wives
to themselves.

The younger, Edgar Munro, the father of Lucy, grew prosperous in business--for a season at
least--and, until borne down by a rush of unfavorable circumstances, he spared neither pains
nor expense in the culture of the young mind of that daughter whose fortunes are now somewhat
before us. Nothing which might tend in the slightest to her personal improvement had been withheld;
and the due feminine grace and accomplishment which followed these cares fitted the maiden
for the most refined intellectual converse, and for every gentle association. She was familiar
with books; had acquired a large taste for letters; and a vein of romantic enthusiasm, not
uncommon to the southern temperament, and which she possessed in a considerable degree, was
not a little sharpened and exaggerated by the works which fell into her hands.

Tenderly loved and gently nurtured by her parents, it was at that period in her life in which
their presence and guardianship were most seriously needed, that she became an orphan; and
her future charge necessarily devolved upon an uncle, between whom and her father, since their
early manhood, but little association of any kind had taken place. The one looked upon the
other as too licentious, if not criminally so, in his habits and pursuits; he did not know
their extent, or dream of their character, or he had never doubted for an instant; while he,
in turn, so estimated, did not fail to consider and to style his more sedate brother an inveterate
and tedious proser; a dull sermonizer on feelings which he knew nothing about, and could never
understand--one who prosed on to the end of the chapter, without charm or change, worrying
all about him with exhortations to which they yielded no regard.

The parties were fairly quits, and there was no love lost between them. They saw each other
but seldom, and, when the surviving brother took up his abode in the new purchase, as the Indian
acquisitions of modern times have been usually styled, he was lost sight of, for a time, entirely,
by his more staid and worthy kinsman.

Still, Edgar Munro did not look upon his brother as utterly bad. A wild indifference to social
forms, and those staid customs which in the estimation of society become virtues, was, in his
idea, the most serious error of which Walter had been guilty. In this thought he persisted
to the last, and did not so much feel the privations to which his death must subject his child,
in the belief and hope that his brother would not only be able but willing to supply the loss.

In one respect he was not mistaken. The afflictions which threw the niece of Walter a dependant
upon his bounty, and a charge upon his attention, revived in some measure his almost smothered
and in part forgotten regards of kindred; and with a tolerably good grace he came forward to
the duty, and took the orphan to the asylum, such as it was, to which his brother's death-bed
prayer had recommended her. At first, there was something to her young mind savoring of the
romance to which she had rather given herself up, in the notion of a woodland cottage, and
rural sports, and wild vines gadding fantastically around secluded bowers; but the reality--the
sad reality of such a home and its associations--pressed too soon and heavily upon her to permit
her much longer to entertain or encourage the dream of that glad fancy in which she originally
set out.

The sphere to which she was transferred, it was soon evident, was neither grateful to the heart
nor suited to the mind whose education had been such as hers; and the spirit of the young maiden,
at all times given rather to a dreamy melancholy than to any very animated impulses, put on,
in its new abiding-place, a garb of increased severity, which at certain moments indicated
more of deep and settled misanthropy than any mere constitutionality of habit.

Munro was not at all times rude of speech and manner; and, when he pleased, knew well how so
to direct himself as to sooth such a disposition. He saw, and in a little while well understood,
the temper of his niece; and, with a consideration under all circumstances rather creditable,
he would most usually defer, with a ready accommodation of his own, to her peculiarities. He
was pleased and proud of her accomplishments; and from being thus proud, so far as such an
emotion could consistently comport with a life and a licentiousness such as his, he had learned,
in reality, to love the object who could thus awaken a sentiment so much beyond those inculcated
by all his other habits. To her he exhibited none of the harsh manner which marked his intercourse
with all other persons; and in his heart sincerely regretted, and sought to avoid the necessity
which, as we have elsewhere seen, had made him pledge her hand to Rivers--a disposition of
it which he knew was no less galling and painful to her than it was irksome yet unavoidable
to himself.

Unhappily, however, for these sentiments, he was too much under the control and at the mercy
of his colleague to resist or refuse his application for her person; and though for a long
time baffling, under various pretences, the pursuit of that ferocious ruffian, he felt that
the time was at hand, unless some providential interference willed it otherwise, when the sacrifice
would be insisted on and must be made; or probably her safety, as well as his own, might necessarily
be compromised. He knew too well the character of Rivers, and was too much in his power, to
risk much in opposition to his will and desires: and, as we have already heard him declare,
from having been at one time, and in some respects, the tutor, he had now become, from the
operation of circumstances, the mere creature and instrument of that unprincipled wretch.

Whatever may have been the crimes of Munro beyond those already developed--known to and in
the possession of Rivers--and whatever the nature of those ties, as well of league as of mutual
risk, which bound the parties together in such close affinity, it is not necessary that we
should state, nor, indeed, might it be altogether within our compass or capacity to do so.
Their connection had, we doubt not, many ramifications; and was strengthened, there is little
question, by a thousand mutual necessities, resulting from their joint and frequently-repeated
violations of the laws of the land. They were both members of an irregular club, known by its
constituents in Georgia as the most atrocious criminal that ever offended society or defied
its punishments; and the almost masonic mysteries and bond which distinguished the members
provided them with a pledge of security which gave an added impetus to their already reckless
vindictiveness against man and humanity. In a country, the population of which, few and far
between, is spread over a wide, wild, and little-cultivated territory, the chances of punishment
for crime, rarely realized, scarcely occasioned a thought among offenders; and invited, by
the impunity which marked their atrocities, their reiterated commission. We have digressed,
however, somewhat from our narrative, but thus much was necessary to the proper understanding
of the portions immediately before us, and to the consideration of which we now return.

The moment was inopportune, as we have already remarked, at which Lucy Munro endeavored to
effect her return to her own apartment. She was compelled, for the attainment of this object,
to cross directly over the great hall, from the room adjoining and back of which the little
shed-room projected in which she lodged. This hall was immediately entered upon from the passage-way,
leading into the court in front, and but a few steps were necessary for its attainment. The
hall had but a single outlet besides that through which she now entered, and this led at once
into the adjoining apartment, through which only could she make her way to her own. Unhappily,
this passage also contained the stairway flight which led into the upper story of the building;
and, in her haste to accomplish her return, she had penetrated too far to effect her retreat,
when a sudden change of direction in the light which Rivers carried sufficed to develop the
form of that person, at the foot of the stairs, followed by Munro, just returning from the
attempt which she had rendered fruitless, and now approaching directly toward her.

Conscious of the awkwardness of her situation, and with a degree of apprehension which now
for the first time seemed to paralyze her faculties, she endeavored, but with some uncertainty
and hesitation of manner, to gain the shelter of the wall which stretched dimly beside her;
a hope not entirely vain, had she pursued it decisively, since the lamp which Rivers carried
gave forth but a feeble ray, barely adequate to the task of guiding the footsteps of those
who employed it. But the glance of the outlaw, rendered, it would seem, more malignantly penetrating
from his recent disappointment, detected the movement; and though, from the imperfectness of
the light, uncertain of the object, with a ready activity, the result of a conviction that
the long-sought-for victim was now before him, he sprang forward, flinging aside the lamp as
he did so, and grasping with one hand and with rigid gripe the almost-fainting girl: the other,
brandishing a bared knife, was uplifted to strike, when her shrieks arrested the blow.

Disappointed in not finding the object he sought, the fury of the outlaw was rather heightened
than diminished when he discovered that his arm only encircled a young and terrified female;
and his teeth were gnashed in token of the bitter wrath in his bosom, and angry curses came
from his lips in the undisguised vexation of his spirit. In the meantime, Munro advanced, and
the lamp having been dashed out in the onset of Rivers, they were still ignorant of the character
of their prisoner, until, having somewhat recovered from her first alarm, and struggling for
deliverance from the painful gripe which secured her arm, she exclaimed--

"Unhand me, sir--unhand me, on the instant. What mean you by this violence?"

"Ha! it is you then, fair mistress, that have done this work. It is you that have meddled in
the concerns of men, prying into their plans, and arresting their execution. By my soul, I
had not thought you so ready or so apt; but how do you reconcile it to your notions of propriety
to be abroad at an hour which is something late for a coy damsel? Munro, you must look to these
rare doings, or they will work you some difficulty in time to come."

Munro advanced and addressed her with some sternness--"Why are you abroad, Lucy, and at this
hour? why this disquietude, and what has alarmed you?--why have you left your chamber?"

The uncle did not obtain, nor indeed did he appear to expect, any answer to his inquiries.
In the meanwhile, Rivers held possession of her arm, and she continued fruitlessly struggling
for some moments in his grasp, referring at length to the speaker for that interference which
he now appeared slow to manifest.

"Oh, sir! will you suffer me to be treated thus--will you not make this man undo his hold,
and let me retire to my chamber?"

"You should have been there long before this, Lucy," was the reply, in a grave, stern accent.
"You must not complain, if, found thus, at midnight, in a part of the building remote from
your chamber, you should be liable to suspicions of meddling with things which should not concern
you."

"Come, mistress--pray answer to this. Where have you been to-night--what doing--why abroad?
Have you been eavesdropping--telling tales--hatching plots?"

The natural ferocity of Rivers's manner was rather heightened by the tone which he assumed.
The maiden, struggling still for the release for which her spirit would not suffer her to implore,
exclaimed:--

"Insolent! By what right do you ask me these or any questions? Unhand me, coward--unhand me.
You are strong and brave only where the feeble are your opponents."

But he maintained his grasp with even more rigidity than before; and she turned towards the
spot at which stood her uncle, but he had left the apartment for a light.

"Your speech is bold, fair mistress, and ill suits my temper. You must be more chary of your
language, or you will provoke me beyond my own strength of restraint. You are my property--my
slave, if I so please it, and all your appeals to your uncle will be of no effect. Hark you!
you have done that to-night for which I am almost tempted to put this dagger into your heart,
woman as you are! You have come between me and my victim--between me and my enemy. I had summed
up all my wrongs, intending their settlement to-night. You have thwarted all my hopes--you
have defrauded me of all my anticipations. What is it prevents me from putting you to death
on the spot? Nothing. I have no fears, no loves, to hold and keep me back. I live but for revenge,
and that which stays and would prevent me from its enjoyment, must also become its victim."

At this moment, Munro returned with a lamp. The affrighted girl again appealed to him, but
he heeded her not. He soon left the passage, and the outlaw proceeded:--

"You love this youth--nay, shrink not back; let not your head droop in shame; he is worthy
of your love, and for this, among other things, I hate him. He is worthy of the love of others,
and for this, too, I hate him. Fool that you are, he cares not for you. 'Spite of all your
aid to-night, he will not remember you to-morrow--he has no thought of you--his hope is built
upon--he is wedded to another.

"Hear me, then! your life is in my hands, and at my mercy. There are none present who could
interfere and arrest the blow. My dagger is even now upon your bosom--do you not feel it? At
a word--a single suggestion of my thought--it performs its office, and for this night's defeat
I am half revenged. You may arrest my arm--you may procure your release--even more--you may
escape from the bondage of that union with me for which your uncle stands pledged, if you please."

"Speak--say--how!" was the eager exclamation of the maiden when this last suggestion met her ears.

"Put me on the scent--say on what route have you sent this boy, that I may realize the revenge
I so often dream of."

"Never, never, as I hope to live. I would rather you should strike me dead on the spot."

"Why, so I will," he exclaimed furiously, and his arm rose and the weapon descended, but he
arrested the stroke as it approached her.

"No! not yet. There will be time enough for this, and you will perhaps be more ready and resigned
when I have got rid of this youth in whom you are so much interested. I need not disguise my
purpose to you--you must have known it, when conspiring for its defeat; and now, Lucy, be assured,
I shall not slumber in pursuit of him. I may be delayed, my revenge may be protracted, but
I shall close with him at last. With holding the clue which you may unfold, can not serve him
very greatly; and having it in your hands, you may serve yourself and me. Take my offer--put
me on his route, so that he shall not escape me, and be free henceforward from pursuit, or,
as you phrase it, from persecution of mine."

"You offer highly, very highly, Guy Rivers, and I should be tempted to anything, save this.
But I have not taken this step to undo it. I shall give you no clue, no assistance which may
lead to crime and to the murder of the innocent. Release my hand, sir, and suffer me to retire."

"You have the means of safety and release in your own hands--a single condition complied with,
and, so far as I am concerned, they are yours. Where is he gone--where secreted! What is the
route which you have advised him to take? Speak, and to the point, Lucy Munro, for I may not
longer be trifled with."

"He is safe, and by this time, I hope, beyond your reach. I tell you thus much, because I feel
that it can not yield you more satisfaction than it yields to me."

"It is in vain, woman, that you would trifle with and delay me; he can not escape me in the
end. All these woods are familiar to me, in night as in day, as the apartment in which we stand;
and towards this boy I entertain a feeling which will endue me with an activity and energy
as unshrinking in the pursuit as the appetite for revenge is keen which gives them birth and
impulse. I hate him with a sleepless, an unforgiving hate, that can not be quieted. He has
dishonored me in the presence of these men--he has been the instrument through which I bear
this badge, this brand-stamp on my cheek--he has come between my passion and its object--nay,
droop not--I have no reference now to you, though you, too, have been won by his insidious
attractions, while he gives you no thought in return--he has done more than this, occasioned
more than this, and wonder not that I had it in my heart at one moment to-night to put my dagger
into your bosom, since through you it had been defrauded of its object. But why tremble--do
you not tell me he is safe?"

"I do! and for this reason I tremble. I tremble with joy, not fear. I rejoice that through
my poor help he is safe. I did it all. I sought him--hear me, Guy Rivers, for in his safety
I feel strong to speak--I sought him even in his chamber, and felt no shame--I led the way--I
guided him through all the avenues of the house--when you ascended the stairs we stood over
it in the closet which is at its head. We beheld your progress--saw, and counted every step
you took; heard every word you uttered; and more than once, when your fiend soul spoke through
your lips, in horrible threatenings, my hand arrested the weapon with which the youth whom
you now seek would have sent you to your long account, with all your sins upon your head. I
saved you from his blow; not because you deserved to live, but because, at that moment, you
were too little prepared to die."

It would be difficult to imagine--certainly impossible to describe, the rage of Rivers, as,
with an excited spirit, the young girl, still trembling, as she expressed it, from joy, not
fear, avowed all the particulars of Colleton's escape. She proceeded with much of the fervor
and manner of one roused into all the inspiration of a holy defiance of danger:--

"Wonder not, therefore, that I tremble--my soul is full of joy at his escape. I heed not the
sneer and the sarcasm which is upon your lips and in your eyes. I went boldly and confidently
even into the chamber of the youth--I aroused him from his slumbers--I defied, at that moment
of peril, what were far worse to me than your suspicions--I defied such as might have been
his. I was conscious of no sin--no improper thought--and I called upon God to protect and to
sanction me in what I had undertaken. He has done so, and I bless him for the sanction."

She sunk upon her knees as she spoke, and her lips murmured and parted as if in prayer, while
the tears--tears of gladness--streamed warmly and abundantly from her eyes. The rage of the
outlaw grew momently darker and less governable. The white foam collected about his mouth--while
his hands, though still retaining their gripe upon hers, trembled almost as much as her own.
He spoke in broken and bitter words.

"And may God curse you for it! You have dared much, Lucy Munro, this hour. You have bearded
a worse fury than the tiger thirsting after blood. What madness prompts you to this folly?
You have heard me avow my utter, uncontrollable hatred of this man--my determination, if possible,
to destroy him, and yet you interpose. You dare to save him in my defiance. You teach him our
designs, and labor to thwart them yourself. Hear me, girl! you know me well--you know I never
threaten without execution. I can understand how it is that a spirit, feeling at this moment
as does your own, should defy death. But, bethink you--is there nothing in your thought which
is worse than death, from the terrors of which, the pure mind, however fortified by heroic
resolution, must still shrink and tremble? Beware, then, how you chafe me. Say where the youth
has gone, and in this way retrieve, if you can, the error which taught you to connive at his
escape."

"I know not what you mean, and have no fears of anything you can do. On this point I feel secure,
and bid you defiance. To think now, that, having chiefly effected the escape of the youth,
I would place him again within your power, argues a degree of stupidity in me that is wantonly
insulting. I tell you he has fled, by this time, beyond your reach. I say no more. It is enough
that he is in safety; before a word of mine puts him in danger, I'll perish by your hands,
or any hands."

"Then shall you perish, fool!" cried the ruffian; and his hand, hurried by the ferocious impulse
of his rage, was again uplifted, when, in her struggles at freedom, a new object met his sight
in the chain and portrait which Ralph had flung about her neck, and which, now falling from
her bosom, arrested his attention, and seemed to awaken some recognition in his mind. His hold
relaxed upon her arm, and with eager haste he seized the portrait, tearing it away with a single
wrench from the rich chain to which it was appended, and which now in broken fragments was
strewed upon the floor.

Lucy sprang towards him convulsively, and vainly endeavored at its recovery. Rivers broke the
spring, and his eyes gazed with serpent-like fixedness upon the exquisitely beautiful features
which it developed. His whole appearance underwent a change. The sternness had departed from
his face which now put on an air of abstraction and wandering, not usually a habit with it.
He gazed long and fixedly upon the portrait, unheeding the efforts of the girl to obtain it,
and muttering at frequent intervals detached sentences, having little dependence upon one another:--

"Ay--it is she," he exclaimed--"true to the life--bright, beautiful, young, innocent--and I--But
let me not think!"--

Then turning to the maid--

"Fond fool--see you the object of adoration with him whom you so unprofitably adore. He loves
her, girl--she, whom I--but why should I tell it you? is it not enough that we have both loved
and loved in vain; and, in my revenge, you too shall enjoy yours."

"I have nothing to revenge, Guy Rivers--nothing for you, above all others, to revenge. Give
me the miniature; I have it in trust, and it must not go out of my possession."

She clung to him as she spoke, fruitlessly endeavoring at the recovery of that which he studiously
kept from her reach. He parried her efforts for a while with something of forbearance; but
ere long his original temper returned, and he exclaimed, with all the air of the demon:--

"Why will you tempt me, and why longer should I trifle? You cannot have the picture--it belongs,
or should belong, as well as its original, to me. My concern is now with the robber from whom
you obtained it. Will you not say upon what route he went? Will you not guide me--and, remember
well--there are some terrors greater to your mind than any threat of death. Declare, for the
last time--what road he took."

The maiden was still, and showed no sign of reply. Her eye wandered--her spirit was in prayer.
She was alone with a ruffian, irresponsible and reckless, and she had many fears.

"Will you not speak?" he cried--"then you must hear. Disclose the fact, Lucy--say, what is
the road, or what the course you have directed for this youth's escape, or--mark me! I have
you in my power--my fullest power--with nothing to restrain my passion or my power, and--"

She struggled desperately to release herself from his grasp, but he renewed it with all his
sinewy strength, enforcing, with a vicelike gripe, the consciousness, in her mind, of the futility
of all her physical efforts.

"Do you not hear!" he said. "Do you comprehend me."

"Do your worst!" she cried. "Kill me! I defy your power and your malice!"

"Ha! but do you defy my passions. Hark ye, if ye fear not death, there is something worse than
death to so romantic a damsel, which shall teach ye fear. Obey me, girl--report the route taken
by this fugitive, or by all that is black in hell or bright in heaven, I--"

And with a whisper, he hissed the concluding and cruel threat in the ears of the shuddering
and shrinking girl. With a husky horror in her voice, she cried out:--

"You dare not! monster as you are, you dare not!" then shrieking, at the full height of her
voice--"Save me, uncle! save me! save me!"

"Save you! It is he that dooms you! He has given you up to any fate that I shall decree!"

"Liar! away! I defy you. You dare not, ruffian! Your foul threat is but meant to frighten me."

The creeping terrors of her voice, as she spoke, contradicted the tenor of her speech. Her
fears--quite as extreme as he sought to make them--were fully evinced in her trembling accents.

"Frighten you!" answered the ruffian. "Frighten you! why, not so difficult a matter either!
But it is as easy to do, as to threaten--to make you feel as to make you fear--and why not?
why should you not become the thing at once for which you have been long destined? Once certainly
mine, Lucy Munro, you will abandon the silly notion that you can be anything to Ralph Colleton!
Come!--"

Her shrieks answered him. He clapped his handkerchief upon her mouth.

"Uncle! uncle! save me!"

She was half stifled--she felt breath and strength failing. Her brutal assailant was hauling
her away, with a force to which she could no longer oppose resistance; and with a single half-ejaculated
prayer--"Oh, God! be merciful!" she sunk senselessly at his feet, even as a falling corse.

CHAPTER XXI.

"THOU SHALT DO NO MURDER!"

Even at this moment, Munro entered the apartment. He came not a moment too soon. Rivers had
abused his opportunity thus far; and it is not to be doubted that he would have forborne none
of the advantages which his brute strength afforded him over the feeble innocent, were it not
for the interposition of the uncle. He had lied, when he had asserted to the girl the sanction
of the uncle for his threatened crime. Munro was willing that his niece should become the wife
of the outlaw, and barely willing to consent even to this; but for anything less than this--base
as he was--he would sooner have braved every issue with the ruffian, and perished himself in
defence of the girl's virtue. He had his pride of family, strange to say, though nursed and
nestled in a bosom which could boast no other virtue.

The moment he saw the condition of Lucy, with the grasp of Rivers still upon her, he tore her
away with the strength of a giant.

"What have you been doing, Guy?"

His keen and suspicious glance of eye conveyed the question more significantly.

"Nothing! she is a fool only!"

"And you have been a brute! Beware! I tell you, Guy Rivers, if you but ruffle the hair of this
child in violence, I will knife you, as soon as I would my worst enemy."

"Pshaw! I only threatened her to make her confess where she had sent Colleton or hidden him."

"Ay, but there are some threats, Guy, that call for throat-cutting. Look to it. We know each
other; and you know that, though I'm willing you should marry Lucy, I'll not stand by and see
you harm her; and, with my permission you lay no hands on her, until you are married."

"Very well!" answered the ruffian sullenly, and turning away, "see that you get the priest
soon ready. I'll wait upon neither man nor woman over long! You sha'n't trifle with me much
longer."

To this speech Munro made no answer. He devoted himself to his still insensible niece, whom
he raised carefully from the floor, and laid her upon a rude settee that stood in the apartment.
She meanwhile remained unconscious of his care, which was limited to fanning her face and sprinkling
water upon it.

"Why not carry her to her chamber--put her in bed, and let us be off?" said Rivers.

"Wait awhile!" was the answer.

The girl had evidently received a severe shock. Munro shook his head, and looked at Rivers angrily.

"See to it, Guy, if any harm comes to her."

"Pshaw!" said the other, "she is recovering now."

He was right. The eyes of the sufferer unclosed, but they were vacant--they lacked all intelligence.
Munro pulled a flask of spirits from his pocket, and poured some into her lips. They were livid,
and her cheeks of ashy paleness.

"She recovers--see!"

The teeth opened and shut together again with a sudden spasmodic energy. The eyes began to
receive light. Her breathing increased.

"She will do now," muttered Munro. "She will recover directly. Get yourself ready, Guy, and
prepare to mount, while I see that she is put to bed. It's now a necessity that we should push
this stranger to the wall, and silence him altogether. I don't oppose you now, seeing that
we've got to do it."

"Ay," quoth Rivers, somewhat abstractedly--for he was a person of changing and capricious moods--"ay!
ay! it has to be done! Well! we will do it!--as for her!"

Here he drew nigh and grasped the hand of the only half-conscious damsel, and stared earnestly
in her face. Her eyes opened largely and wildly upon him, then closed again; a shudder passed
over her form, and her hand was convulsively withdrawn from his grasp.

"Come, come, let her alone, and be off," said Munro. "As long as you are here, she'll be in
a fit! See to the horses. There's no use to wait. You little know Lucy Munro if you reckon
to get anything out of her. You may strike till doomsday at her bosom, but, where she's fixed
in principle, she'll perish before she yields. Nothing can move her when she's resolved. In
that she's the very likeness of her father, who was like a rock when he had sworn a thing."

"Ha! but the rock may be split, and the woman's will must be made to yield to a superior. I
could soon--"

He took her hand once more in his iron grasp.

"Let her go, Guy!" said Munro sternly. "She shall have no rough usage while I'm standing by.
Remember that! It's true, she's meddled in matters that didn't concern her, but there is an
excuse. It was womanlike to do so, and I can't blame her. She's a true woman, Guy--all heart
and soul--as noble a young thing as ever broke the world's bread--too noble to live with such
as we, Guy; and I only wish I had so much man's strength as to be worthy of living with such
as she."

"A plague on her nobility! It will cut all our throats, or halter us; and your methodistical
jargon only encourages her. Noble or not, she has been cunning enough to listen to our private
conversation; has found out all our designs; has blabbed everything to this young fellow, and
made him master of our lives. Yes! would you believe it of her nobleness and delicacy, that
she has this night visited him in his very chamber?"

"What!"

"Yes! indeed! and she avows it boldly."

"Ah! if she avows it, there's no harm!"

"What! no harm?"

"I mean to her. She's had no bad purpose in going to his chamber. I see it all!"

"Well, and is it not quite enough to drive a man mad, to think that the best designs of a man
are to be thwarted, and his neck put in danger, by the meddling of a thing like this? She has
blabbed all our secrets--nay, made him listen to them--for, even while we ascended the stairs
to his chamber, they were concealed in the closet above the stairway, watched all our movements,
and heard every word we had to say."

"And you would be talking," retorted the landlord. The other glared at him ferociously, but
proceeded:--

"I heard the sound--their breathing--I told you at the time that I heard something stirring
in the closet. But you had your answer. For an experienced man, Munro, you are duller than
an owl by daylight."

"I'm afraid so," answered the other coolly. "But it's too late now for talk. We must be off
and active, if we would be doing anything. I've been out to the stable, and find that the young
fellow has taken off his horse. He has been cool enough about it, for saddle and bridle are
both gone. He's had time enough to gear up in proper style, while you were so eloquent along
the stairs. I reckon there was something to scare him off at last, however, for here's his
dirk--I suppose it's his--which I found at the stable-door. He must have dropped it when about
to mount."

"'Tis his!" said Rivers, seizing and examining it. "It is the weapon he drew on me at the diggings."

"He has the start of us--"

"But knows nothing of the woods. It is not too late. Let us be off. Lucy is recovering, and
you can now leave her in safety. She will find the way to her chamber--or to some chamber.
It seems that she has no scruples in going to any."

"Stop that, Guy! Don't slander the girl."

"Pooh! are you going to set up for a sentimentalist?"

"No: but if you can't learn to stop talking, I shall set you down as a fool! For a man of action,
you use more of an unnecessary tongue than any living man I ever met. For God's sake, sink
the lawyer when you're out of court! It will be high time to brush up for a speech when you
are in the dock, and pleading with the halter dangling in your eyes. Oh, don't glare upon me!
He who flings about his arrows by the handful mustn't be angry if some of them are flung back."

"Are you ready?"

"Ay, ready!--She's opening her eyes. We can leave her now.--What's the course?"

"We can determine in the open air. He will probably go west, and will take one or other of
the two traces at the fork, and his hoofs will soon tell us which. Our horses are refreshed
by this, and are in readiness. You have pistols: see to the flints and priming. There must
be no scruples now. The matter has gone quite too far for quiet, and though the affair was
all mine at first, it is now as perfectly yours."

As Rivers spoke, Munro drew forth his pistols and looked carefully at the priming. The sharp
click of the springing steel, as the pan was thrown open, now fully aroused Lucy to that consciousness
which had been only partial in the greater part of this dialogue. Springing to her feet with
an eagerness and energy that was quite astonishing after her late prostration, she rushed forward
to her uncle, and looked appealingly into his face, though she did not speak, while her hand
grasped tenaciously his arm.

"What means the girl?" exclaimed Munro, now apprehensive of some mental derangement. She spoke,
with a deep emphasis, but a single sentence:--

"It is written--thou shalt do no murder!"

The solemn tone--the sudden, the almost fierce action--the peculiar abruptness of the apostrophe--the
whitely-robed, the almost spiritual elevation of figure--all so dramatic--combined necessarily
to startle and surprise; and, for a few moments, no answer was returned to the unlooked-for
speech. But the effect could not be permanent upon minds made familiar with the thousand forms
of human and strong energies. Munro, after a brief pause, replied--

"Who speaks of murder, girl? Why this wild, this uncalled-for exhortation?"

"Not wild, not uncalled-for, uncle, but most necessary. Wherefore would you pursue the youth,
arms in your hands, hatred in your heart, and horrible threatenings upon your lips? Why put
yourself into the hands of this fierce monster, as the sharp instrument to do his vengeance
and gratify his savage malignity against the young and the gentle? If you would do no murder,
not so he. He will do it--he will make you do it, but he will have it done. Approach me not--approach
me not--let me perish, rather! O God--my uncle, let him come not near me, if you would not
see me die upon the spot!" she exclaimed, in the most terrified manner, and with a shuddering
horror, as Rivers, toward the conclusion of her speech, had approached her with the, view to
an answer. To her uncle she again addressed herself, with an energy which gave additional emphasis
to her language:--

"Uncle--you are my father now--you will not forget the dying prayer of a brother! My prayer
is his. Keep that man from me--let me not see him--let him come not near me with his polluted
and polluting breath! You know not what he is--you know him but as a stabber--as a hater--as
a thief! But were my knowledge yours--could I utter in your ears the foul language, the fiend-threatenings
which his accursed lips uttered in mine!--but no--save me from him is all I ask--protect the
poor orphan--the feeble, the trampled child of your brother! Keep me from the presence of that
bad man!"

As she spoke, she sank at the feet of the person she addressed, her hands were clasped about
his knees, and she lay there shuddering and shrinking, until he lifted her up in his arms.
Somewhat softened by his kindness of manner, the pressure upon her brain of that agony was
immediately relieved, and a succession of tears and sobs marked the diminished influence of
her terrors. But, as Rivers attempted something in reply, she started--

"Let me go--let me not hear him speak! His breath is pollution--his words are full of foul
threats and dreadful thoughts. If you knew all that I know--if you feared what I fear, uncle--you
would nigh slay him on the spot."

This mental suffering of his niece was not without its influence upon her uncle, who, as we
have said before, had a certain kind and degree of pride--pride of character we may almost
call it--not inconsistent with pursuits and a condition of life wild and wicked even as his.
His eye sternly settled upon that of his companion, as, without a word, he bore the almost
lifeless girl into the chamber of his wife, who, aroused by the clamor, had now and then looked
forth upon the scene, but was too much the creature of timidity to venture entirely amid the
disputants. Placing her under the charge of the old lady, Munro uttered a few consolatory words
in Lucy's ear, but she heard him not. Her thoughts evidently wandered to other than selfish
considerations at that moment, and, as he left the chamber, she raised her finger impressively:--

"Do no murder, uncle! let him not persuade you into crime; break off from a league which compels
you to brook a foul insult to those you are bound in duty to protect."

"Would I could!" was his muttered sentence as he left the chamber. He felt the justice of the
counsel, but wore the bewildered expression of countenance of one conscious of what is right,
but wanting courage for its adoption.

"She has told you no foolish story of me?" was the somewhat anxious speech of Rivers upon the
reappearance of the landlord.

"She has said nothing in plain words, Guy Rivers--but yet quite enough to make me doubt whether
you, and not this boy we pursue, should not have my weapon in your throat. But beware! The
honor of that child of Edgar Munro is to me what would have been my own; and let me find that
you have gone a tittle beyond the permitted point, in speech or action, and we cut asunder.
I shall then make as little bones of putting a bullet through your ribs as into those of the
wild bullock of the hills. I am what I am: my hope is that she may always be the pure creature
which she now is, if it were only that she might pray for me."

"She has mistaken me, Munro--"

"Say no more, Guy. She has not much mistaken you, or I have. Let us speak no more on this subject;
you know my mind, and will be advised.--Let us now be off. The horses are in readiness, and
waiting, and a good spur will bring us up with the game. The youth, you say, has money about
him, a gold watch, and--"

The more savage ruffian grinned as he listened to these words. They betrayed the meaner motives
of action in the case of the companion, who could acknowledge the argument of cupidity, while
insensible to that of revenge.

"Ay! enough to pay you for your share in the performance Do your part well, and you shall have
all that he carries--gold, watch, trinkets, horse, everything. I shall be quite content to
take--his life! Are you satisfied? Are there any scruples now?"

"No! none! I have no scruples! But to cut a throat, or blow out a man's liver with a brace
of bullets, is a work that should be well paid for. The performance is by no means so agreeable
that one should seek to do it for nothing."

Guy Rivers fancied himself a nobler animal than his companion, as he felt that he needed not
the mercenary motive for the performance of the murderous action.

They were mounted, the horses being ready for them in the rear of the building.

"Round the hollow. We'll skirt the village, and not go through it," said Munro. "We may gain
something on the route to the fork of the roads by taking the blind track by the red hill."

"As you will. Go ahead!"

A few more words sufficed to arrange the route, and regulate their pursuit, and a few moments
sufficed to send them off in full speed over the stony road, both with a common and desperate
purpose, but each moved by arguments and a passion of his own.

In her lonely chamber, Lucy Munro, now recovered to acutest consciousness, heard the tread
of their departing hoofs; and, clasping her hands, she sank upon her knees, yielding up her
whole soul to silent prayer. The poor girl never slept that night.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE BLOODY DEED.

Let us leave the outlaws to their progress for a brief space, while we gather up and pursue
for awhile some other clues of our story.

We have witnessed the separation of Mark Forrester from his sweetheart, at the place of trysting.
The poor fellow had recovered some of his confidence in himself and fortune, and was now prepared
to go forth with a new sentiment of hope within his bosom. The sting was in a degree taken
from his conscience--his elastic and sanguine temperament contributed to this--and with renewed
impulses to adventure, and with new anticipations of the happiness that we all dream to find
in life; the erring, but really honest fellow, rode fearlessly through the dim forests, without
needing more auspicious lights than those of the kindling moon and stars. The favor of old
Allen, the continued love of Kate, the encouragements of young Colleton, his own feeling of
the absence of any malice in his heart, even while committing his crime, and the farther fact
that he was well-mounted, and speeding from the region where punishment threatened--all these
were influences which conspired to lessen, in his mind, the griefs of his present privation,
and the lonely emotions which naturally promised to accompany him in his solitary progress.

His course lay for the great Southwest--the unopened forests, and mighty waters of the Mississippi
valley. Here, he was to begin a new life. Unknown, he would shake off the fears which his crime
necessarily inspired. Respited from death and danger, he would atone for it by penitence and
honest works. Kate Allen should be his solace, and there would be young and lovely children
smiling around his board. Such were the natural dreams of the young and sanguine exile.

"But who shall ride from his destiny?" saith the proverb. The wing of the bird is no security
against the shaft of the fowler, and the helmet and the shield keep not away the draught that
is poisoned. He who wears the greaves, the gorget, and the coat-of-mail, holds defiance to
the storm of battle; but he drinks and dies in the hall of banqueting. What matters it, too,
though the eagle soars and screams among the clouds, halfway up to heaven--flaunting his proud
pinions, and glaring with audacious glance in the very eye of the sun--death waits for him
in the quiet of his own eyry, nestling with his brood. These are the goodly texts of the Arabian
sage, in whose garden-tree, so much was he the beloved of heaven, the birds came and nightly
sang for him those solemn truths--those lessons of a perfect wisdom--which none but the favored
of the Deity are ever permitted to hear. They will find a sufficient commentary in the fortune
of the rider whom we have just beheld setting out from his parting with his mistress, on his
way of new adventure--his heart comparatively light, and his spirit made buoyant with the throng
of pleasant fancies which continually gathered in his thought.

The interview between Forrester and his mistress had been somewhat protracted, and his route
from her residence to the road in which we find him, being somewhat circuitous, the night had
waned considerably ere he had made much progress. He now rode carelessly, as one who mused--his
horse, not urged by its rider, became somewhat careful of his vigor, and his gait was moderated
much from that which had marked his outset. He had entered upon the trace through a thick wood,
when the sound of other hoofs came down upon the wind; not to his ears, for, swallowed up in
his own meditations, his senses had lost much of their wonted acuteness. He had not been long
gone from the point of the road in which we found him, when his place upon the same route was
supplied by the pursuing party, Rivers and Munro. They were both admirably mounted, and seemed
little to regard, in their manner of using them, the value of the good beasts which they bestrode--driving
them as they did, resolutely over fallen trees and jutting rocks, their sides already dashed
with foam, and the flanks bloody with the repeated application of the rowel. It was soon evident
that farther pursuit at such a rate would be impossible: and Munro, as well for the protection
of the horses, as with a knowledge of this necessity, insisted upon a more moderated and measured
pace.

Much against his own will, Rivers assented, though his impatience frequent found utterance
in words querulously sarcastic. The love of gain was a besetting sin of the landlord, and it
was by this passion that his accomplice found it easy, on most occasions, to defeat the suggestions
of his better judgment. The tauntings of the former, therefore, were particularly bestowed
upon this feature in his character, as he found himself compelled to yield to the requisition
of the latter, with whom the value of the horses was no small consideration.

"Well, well," said Rivers, "if you say so, it must be so; though I am sure, if we push briskly
ahead, we shall find our bargain in it. You too will find the horse of the youth, upon which
you had long since set your eyes and heart, a full equivalent, even if we entirely ruin the
miserable beasts we ride."

"The horse you ride is no miserable beast," retorted the landlord, who had some of the pride
of a southron in this particular, and seemed solicitous for the honor of his stud--"you have
jaded him by your furious gait, and seem entirely insensible to the fact that our progress
for the last half hour, continued much longer, would knock up any animal. I'm not so sure,
too, Guy, that we shall find the youngster, or that we shall be able to get our own bargain
out of him when found. He's a tough colt, I take it, and will show fight unless you surprise him."

"Stay--hear you nothing now, as the wind sets up from below? Was not that the tramping of a horse?"

They drew up cautiously as the inquiry was put by Rivers, and pausing for a few minutes, listened
attentively. Munro dismounted, and laying his ear to the ground, endeavored to detect and distinguish
the distant sounds, which, in that way, may be heard with far greater readiness; but he arose
without being satisfied.

"You hear nothing?"

"Not a sound but that which we make ourselves. Your ears to-night are marvellous quick, but
they catch nothing. This is the third time to-night you have fancied sounds, and heard what
I could not; and I claim to have senses in quite as high perfection as your own."

"And without doubt you have; but, know you not, Munro, that wherever the passions are concerned,
the senses become so much more acute; and, indeed, are so many sentinels and spies--scouring
about perpetually, and with this advantage over all other sentinels, that they then never slumber.
So, whether one hate or love, the ear and the eye take heed of all that is going on--they minister
to the prevailing passion, and seem, in their own exercise, to acquire some of the motive and
impulse which belong to it."

"I believe this in most respects to be the case. I have observed it on more than one occasion
myself, and in my own person. But, Guy, in all that you have said, and all that I have seen,
I do not yet understand why it is that you entertain such a mortal antipathy to this young
man, more than to many others who have at times crossed your path. I now understand the necessity
for putting him out of the way; but this is another matter. Before we thought it possible that
he could injure us, you had the same violent hatred, and would have destroyed him at the first
glance. There is more in this, Guy, than you have been willing to let out; and I look upon
it as strange, to say nothing more, that I should be kept so much in the dark upon the subject."

Rivers smiled grimly at the inquiry, and replied at once, though with evident insincerity,--

"Perhaps my desire to get rid of him, then, arose from a presentiment that we should have to
do it in the end. You know I have a gift of foreseeing and foretelling."

"This won't do for me, Guy; I know you too well to regard you as one likely to be influenced
by notions of this nature--you must put me on some other scent."

"Why, so I would, Wat, if I were assured that I myself knew the precise impulse which sets
me on this work. But the fact is, my hate to the boy springs from certain influences which
may not be defined by name--which grow out of those moral mysteries of our nature, for which
we can scarcely account to ourselves; and, by the operation of which, we are led to the performance
of things seemingly without any adequate cause or necessity. A few reflections might give you
the full force of this. Why do some men shrink from a cat? There is an instance now in John
Bremer; a fellow, you know, who would make no more ado about exchanging rifle-shots with his
enemy at twenty paces, than at taking dinner; yet a black cat throws him into fits, from which
for two days he never perfectly recovers. Again--there are some persons to whom the perfume
of flowers brings sickness, and the song of a bird sadness. How are we to account for all these
things, unless we do so by a reference to the peculiar make of the man? In this way you may
understand why it is that I hate this boy, and would destroy him. He is my black cat, and his
presence for ever throws me into fits."

"I have heard of the things of which you speak, and have known some of them myself; but I never
could believe that the nature of the person had been the occasion. I was always inclined to
think that circumstances in childhood, of which the recollection is forgotten--such as great
and sudden fright to the infant, or a blow which affected the brain, were the operating influences.
All these things, however, only affect the fancies--they beget fears and notions--never deep
and abiding hatred--unquiet passion, and long-treasured malignity, such as I find in you on
this occasion."

"Upon this point, Munro, you may be correct. I do not mean to say that hatred and a desire
to destroy are consequent to antipathies such as you describe; but still, something may be
said in favor of such a notion. It appears to me but natural to seek the destruction of that
which is odious or irksome to any of our senses. Why do you crush the crawling spider with
your heel? You fear not its venom; inspect it, and the mechanism of its make, the architecture
of its own fabrication, are, to the full, as wonderful as anything within your comprehension;
but yet, without knowing why, with an impulse given you, as it would seem, from infancy, you
seek its destruction with a persevering industry, which might lead one to suppose you had in
view your direst enemy."

"This is all very true; and from infancy up we do this thing, but the cause can not be in any
loathsomeness which its presence occasions in the mind, for we perceive the same boy destroying
with measured torture the gaudiest butterfly which his hat can encompass."

"Non sequitur," said Rivers.

"What's that? some of your d----d law gibberish, I suppose. If you want me to talk with you
at all, Guy, you must speak in a language I understand."

"Why, so I will, Wat. I only meant to say, in a phrase common to the law, and which your friend
Pippin makes use of a dozen times a day, that it did not follow from what you said, that the
causes which led to the death of the spider and the butterfly were the same. This we may know
by the manner in which they are respectively destroyed. The boy, with much precaution and an
aversion he does not seek to disguise in his attempts on the spider, employs his shoe or a
stick for the purpose of slaughter. But, with the butterfly, the case is altogether different.
He first catches, and does not fear to hold it in his hand. He inspects it closely, and proceeds
to analyze that which his young thought has already taught him is a beautiful creation of the
insect world. He strips it, wing by wing of its gaudy covering; and then, with a feeling of
ineffable scorn, that so wealthy a noble should go unarmed and unprotected, he dashes him to
the ground, and terminates his sufferings without further scruple. The spider, having a sting,
he is compelled to fear, and consequently taught to respect. The feelings are all perfectly
natural, however, which prompt his proceedings. The curiosity is common and innate which impels
him to the inspection of the insect; and that feeling is equally a natural impulse which prompts
him to the death of the spider without hesitation. So with me--it is enough that I hate this
boy, though possessed of numberless attractions of mind and person. Shall I do him the kindness
to inquire whether there be reason for the mood which prompts me to destroy him?"

"You were always too much for me, Guy, at this sort of argument, and you talk the matter over
ingeniously enough, I grant; but still I am not satisfied, that a mere antipathy, without show
of reason, originally induced your dislike to this young man. When you first sought to do him
up, you were conscious of this, and gave, as a reason for the desire, the cut upon your face,
which so much disfigured your loveliness."

Rivers did not appear very much to relish or regard this speech, which had something of satire
in it; but he was wise enough to restrain his feelings, as, reverting back to their original
topic, he spoke in the following manner:--

"You are unusually earnest after reasons and motives for action, to-night: is it not strange,
Munro, that it has never occasioned surprise in your mind, that one like myself, so far superior
in numerous respects to the men I have consented to lead and herd with, should have made such
my profession?"

"Not at all," was the immediate and ready response of his companion. "Not at all. This was
no mystery to me, for I very well knew that you had no choice, no alternative. What else could
you have done? Outlawed and under sentence, I knew that you could never return, in any safety
or security, whatever might be your disguise, to the society which had driven you out--and
I'm sure that your chance would be but a bad one were you to seek a return to the old practice
at Gwinnett courthouse. Any attempt there to argue a fellow out of the halter would be only
to argue yourself into it."

"Pshaw, Munro, that is the case now--that is the necessity and difficulty of to-day. But where,
and what was the necessity, think you, when, in the midst of good practice at Gwinnett bar,
where I ruled without competitor, riding roughshod over bench, bar, and jury, dreaded alike
by all, I threw myself into the ranks of these men, and put on their habits? I speak not now
in praise of myself, more than the facts, as you yourself know them, will sufficiently warrant.
I am now above those idle vanities which would make me deceive myself as to my own mental merits;
but, that such was my standing there and then, I hold indisputable."

"It is true. I sometimes look back and laugh at the manner in which you used to bully the old
judge, and the gaping jury, and your own brother lawyers, while the foam would run through
your clenched teeth and from your lips in very passion; and then I wondered, when you were
doing so well, that you ever gave up there, to undertake a business, the very first job in
which put your neck in danger."

"You may well wonder, Munro. I could not well explain the mystery to myself, were I to try;
and it is this which made the question and doubt which we set out to explain. To those who
knew me well from the first, it is not matter of surprise that I should be for ever in excitements
of one kind or another. From my childhood up, my temper was of a restless and unquiet character--I
was always a peevish, a fretful and discontented person. I looked with scorn and contempt upon
the humdrum ways of those about me, and longed for perpetual change, and wild and stirring
incidents. My passions, always fretful and excitable, were never satisfied except when I was
employed in some way which enabled me to feed and keep alive the irritation which was their
and my very breath of life. With such a spirit, how could I be what men style and consider
a good man? What folly to expect it. Virtue is but a sleepy, in-door, domestic quality--inconsistent
with enterprise or great activity. There are no drones so perfect in the world as the truly
orthodox. Hence the usual superiority of a dissenting, over an established church. It is for
this reason, too, and from this cause, that a great man is seldom, if ever, a good one. It
is inconsistent with the very nature of things to expect it, unless it be from a co-operation
of singular circumstances, whose return is with the comets. Vice, on the contrary, is endowed
with strong passions--a feverish thirst after forbidden fruits and waters--a bird-nesting propensity,
that carries it away from the haunts of the crowded city, into strange wilds and interminable
forests. It lives upon adventure--it counts its years by incidents, and has no other mode of
computing time or of enjoying life. This fact--and it is undeniable with respect to both the
parties--will furnish a sufficient reason why the best heroes of the best poets are always
great criminals. Were this not the case, from what would the interest be drawn?--where would
be the incident, if all men, pursuing the quiet paths of non-interference with the rights,
the lives, or the liberties of one another, spilt no blood, invaded no territory, robbed no
lord of his lady, enslaved and made no captives in war? A virtuous hero would be a useless
personage both in play and poem--and the spectator or reader would fall asleep over the utterance
of stale apothegms. What writer of sense, for instance, would dream of bringing up George Washington
to figure in either of these forms before the world--and how, if he did so, would he prevent
reader or auditor from getting excessively tired, and perhaps disgusted, with one, whom all
men are now agreed to regard as the hero of civilization? Nor do I utter sentiments which are
subjects either of doubt or disputation. I could put the question in such a form as would bring
the million to agree with me. Look, for instance, at the execution of a criminal. See the thousands
that will assemble, day after day, after travelling miles for that single object, to gape and
gaze upon the last agonizing pangs and paroxsyms of a fellow-creature--not regarding for an
instant the fatigue of their position, the press of the crowd, or the loss of a dinner--totally
insusceptible, it would seem, of the several influences of heat and cold, wind and rain, which
at any other time would drive them to their beds or firesides. The same motive which provokes
this desire in the spectator, is the parent, to a certain extent, of the very crime which has
led to the exhibition. It is the morbid appetite, which sometimes grows to madness--the creature
of unregulated passions, ill-judged direction, and sometimes, even of the laws and usages of
society itself, which is so much interested in the promotion of characteristics the very reverse.
It may be that I have more of this perilous stuff about me than the generality of mankind;
but I am satisfied there are few of them, taught as I have been, and the prey of like influences,
whose temper had been very different from mine. The early and operating circumstances under
which I grew up, all tended to the rank growth and encouragement of the more violent and vexing
passions. I was the victim of a tyranny, which, in the end, made me too a tyrant. To feel,
myself, and exercise the temper thus taught me, I had to acquire power in order to secure victims;
and all my aims in life, all my desires, tended to this one pursuit. Indifferent to me, alike,
the spider who could sting, or the harmless butterfly whose only offensiveness is in the folly
of his wearing a glitter which he can not take care of. I was a merciless enemy, giving no
quarter; and with an Ishmaelitish spirit, lifting my hand against all the tribes that were
buzzing around me."

"I believe you have spoken the truth, Guy, so far as your particular qualities of temper are
concerned; for, had I undertaken to have spoken for you in relation to this subject, I should
probably have said, though not to the same degree, the same thing; but the wonder with me is,
how, with such feelings, you should have so long remained in quiet, and in some respects, perfectly
harmless."

"There is as little mystery in the one as in the other. You may judge that my sphere of action--speaking
of action in a literal sense--was rather circumscribed at Gwinnett courthouse: but, the fact
is, I was then but acquiring my education. I was, for the first time, studying rogues, and
the study of rogues is not unaptly fitted to make one take up the business. I, at least, found
it to have that effect. But, even at Gwinnett courthouse, learning as I did, and what I did,
there was one passion, or perhaps a modified form of the ruling passion, which might have swallowed
up all the rest had time been allowed it. I was young, and not free from vanity; particularly
as, for the first time, my ears had been won with praise and gentle flatteries. The possession
of early, and afterward undisputed talents, acquired for me deference and respect; and I was
soon tempted to desire the applauses of the swinish multitude, and to feel a thirsting after
public distinction. In short, I grew ambitious. I soon became sick and tired of the applauses,
the fame, of my own ten-mile horizon; its origin seemed equivocal, its worth and quality questionable,
at the best. My spirit grew troubled with a wholesale discontent, and roved in search of a
wider field, a more elevated and extensive empire. But how could I, the petty lawyer of a county
court, in the midst of a wilderness, appropriate time, find means and opportunities even for
travel? I was poor, and profits are few to a small lawyer, whose best cases are paid for by
a bale of cotton or a negro, when both of them are down in the market. In vain, and repeatedly,
did I struggle with circumstances that for ever foiled me in my desires; until, in a rash and
accursed hour, when chance, and you, and the devil, threw the opportunity for crime in my path!
It did not escape me, and--but you know the rest."

"I do, but would rather hear you tell it. When you speak thus, you put me in mind of some of
the stump-speeches you used to make when you ran for the legislature."

"Ay, that was another, and not the least of the many reverses which my ambition was doomed
to meet with. You knew the man who opposed me; you know that a more shallow and insignificant
fop and fool never yet dared to thrust his head into a deliberative assembly. But, he was rich,
and I poor. He a potato, the growth of the soil; I, though generally admitted a plant of more
promise and pretension--I was an exotic! He was a patrician--one of the small nobility--a growth,
sui generis, of the place--"

"Damn your law-phrases! stop with that, if you please."

"Well, well! he was one of the great men; I was a poor plebeian, whose chief misfortune, at
that time, consisted in my not having a father or a great-grandfather a better man than myself!
His money did the work, and I was bought and beat out of my election, which I considered certain.
I then acquired knowledge of two things. I learned duly to estimate the value of the democratic
principle, when I beheld the vile slaves, whose votes his money had commanded, laughing in
scorn at the miserable creature they had themselves put over them. They felt not--not they--the
double shame of their doings. They felt that he was King Log, but never felt how despicable
they were as his subjects. This taught me, too, the value of money--its wonderful magic and
mystery. In the mood occasioned by all these things, you found me, for the first time, and
in a ready temper for any villany. You attempted to console me for my defeats, but I heard
you not until you spoke of revenge. I was not then to learn how to be vindictive: I had always
been so. I knew, by instinct, how to lap blood; you only taught me how to scent it! My first
great crime proved my nature. Performed under your direction, though without your aid, it was
wantonly cruel in its execution, since the prize desired might readily have been obtained without
the life of its possessor. You, more merciful than myself, would have held me back, and arrested
my stroke; but that would have been taking from the repast its finish: the pleasure, for it
was such to me in my condition of mind, would have been lost entirely. It may sound strangely
even in your ears when I say so, but I could no more have kept my knife from that man's throat
than I could have taken wing for the heavens. He was a poor coward; made no struggle, and begged
most piteously for his life; had the audacity to talk of his great possessions, his rank in
society, his wife and children. These were enjoyments all withheld from me; these were the
very things the want of which had made me what I was--what I am--and furiously I struck my
weapon into his mouth, silencing his insulting speech. Should such a mean spirit as his have
joys which were denied to me? I spurned his quivering carcass with my foot. At that moment
I felt myself; I had something to live for. I knew my appetite, and felt that it was native.
I had acquired a knowledge of a new luxury, and ceased to wonder at the crimes of a Nero and
a Caligula. Think you, Munro, that the thousands who assemble at the execution of a criminal
trouble themselves to inquire into the merits of his case--into the justice of his death and
punishment? Ask they whether he is the victim of justice or of tyranny? No! they go to see
a show--they love blood, and in this way have the enjoyment furnished to their hands, without
the risk which must follow the shedding of it for themselves."

"There is one thing, Guy, upon which I never thought to ask you. What became of that beautiful
young girl from Carolina, on a visit to the village, when you lost your election? You were
then cavorting about her in great style, and I could see that you were well nigh as much mad
after her as upon the loss of the seat."

Rivers started at the inquiry in astonishment. He had never fancied that, in such matters,
Munro had been so observant, and for a few moments gave no reply. He evidently winced beneath
the inquiry; but he soon recovered himself, however--for, though at times exhibiting the passions
of a demoniac, he was too much of a proficient not to be able, in the end, to command the coolness
of the villain.

"I had thought to have said nothing on this subject, Munro, but there are few things which
escape your observation. In replying to you on this point, you will now have all the mystery
explained of my rancorous pursuit of this boy. That girl--then a mere girl--refused me, as
perhaps you know; and when, heated with wine and irritated with rejection, I pressed the point
rather too warmly, she treated me with contempt and withdrew from the apartment. This youth
is the favored, the successful rival. Look upon this picture, Walter--now, while the moon streams
through the branches upon it--and wonder not that it maddened, and still maddens me, to think
that, for his smooth face and aristocratic airs of superiority, I was to be sacrificed and
despised. She was probably a year younger than himself; but I saw at the time, though both
of them appeared unconscious of the fact, that she loved him then. What with her rejection
and scorn, coming at the same time with my election defeat, I am what I am. These defeats were
wormwood to my soul; and, if I am criminal, the parties concerned in them have been the cause
of the crime."

"A very consoling argument, if you could only prove it!"

"Very likely--you are not alone. The million would say with yourself. But hear the case as
I put it, and not as it is put by the majority. Providence endowed me with a certain superiority
of mind over my fellows. I had capacities which they had not--talents to which they did not
aspire, and the possession of which they readily conceded to me. These talents fitted me for
certain stations in society, to which, as I had the talents pre-eminently for such stations,
the inference is fair that Providence intended me for some such stations. But I was denied
my place. Society, guilty of favoritism and prejudice, gave to others, not so well fitted as
myself for its purposes or necessities, the station in all particulars designed for me. I was
denied my birthright, and rebelled. Can society complain, when prostituting herself and depriving
me of my rights, that I resisted her usurpation and denied her authority? Shall she, doing
wrong herself in the first instance, undertake to punish? Surely not. My rights were admitted--my
superior capacity: but the people were rotten to the core; they had not even the virtue of
truth to themselves. They made their own governors of the vilest and the worst. They willingly
became slaves, and are punished in more ways than one. They first create the tyrants--for tyrants
are the creatures of the people they sway, and never make themselves; they next drive into
banishment their more legitimate rulers; and the consequence, in the third place, is, that
they make enemies of those whom they exile. Such is the case with me, and such--but hark! That
surely is the tread of a horse. Do you hear it? there is no mistake now--" and as he spoke,
the measured trampings were heard resounding at some distance, seemingly in advance of them.

"We must now use the spur, Munro; your horses have had indulgence enough for the last hour,
and we may tax them a little now."

"Well, push on as you please; but do you know anything of this route, and what course will
you pursue in doing him up?"

"Leave all that to me. As for the route, it is an old acquaintance; and the blaze on this tree
reminds me that we can here have a short cut which will carry us at a good sweep round this
hill, bringing us upon the main trace about two miles farther down. We must take this course,
and spur on, that we may get ahead of him, and be quietly stationed when he comes. We shall
gain it, I am confident, before our man, who seems to be taking it easily. He will have three
miles at the least to go, and over a road that will keep him in a walk half the way. We shall
be there in time."

They reached the point proposed in due season. Their victim had not yet made his appearance,
and they had sufficient time for all their arrangements. The place was one well calculated
for the successful accomplishment of a deed of darkness. The road at the foot of the hill narrowed
into a path scarcely wide enough for the passage of a single horseman. The shrubbery and copse
on either side overhung it, and in many places were so thickly interwoven, that when, as at
intervals of the night, the moon shone out among the thick and broken clouds which hung upon
and mostly obscured her course, her scattered rays scarcely penetrated the dense enclosure.

At length the horseman approached, and in silence. Descending the hill, his motion was slow
and tedious. He entered the fatal avenue; and, when in the midst of it, Rivers started from
the side of his comrade, and, advancing under the shelter of a tree, awaited his progress.
He came--no word was spoken--a single stroke was given, and the horseman, throwing up his hands,
grasped the limb which projected over, while his horse passed from under him. He held on for
a moment to the branch, while a groan of deepest agony broke from his lips, when he fell supine
to the ground. At that moment, the moon shone forth unimpeded and unobscured by a single cloud.
The person of the wounded man was fully apparent to the sight. He struggled, but spoke not;
and the hand of Rivers was again uplifted, when Munro rushed forward.

"Stay--away, Guy!--we are mistaken--this is not our man!"

The victim heard the words, and, with something like an effort at a laugh, though seemingly
in great agony, exclaimed--

"Ah, Munro, is that you?--I am so glad! but I'm afraid you come too late. This is a cruel blow;
and--for what? What have I done to you, that--oh!--"

The tones of the voice--the person of the suffering man--were now readily distinguishable.

"Good God! Rivers, what is to be the end of all this blundering?"

"Who would have thought to find him here?" was the ferocious answer; the disappointed malice
of the speaker prompting him to the bitterest feelings against the unintended victim--"why
was he in the way? he is always in the way!"

"I am afraid you've done for him."

"We must be sure of it."

"Great God! would you kill him?"

"Why not? It must be done now."

The wounded man beheld the action of the speaker, and heard the discussion. He gasped out a
prayer for life:--

"Spare me, Guy! Save me, Wat, if you have a man's heart in your bosom. Save me! spare me! I
would live! I--oh, spare me!"

And the dying man threw up his hands feebly, in order to avert the blow; but it was in vain.
Munro would have interposed, but, this time, the murderer was too quick for him, if not too
strong. With a sudden rush he flung his associate aside, stooped down, and smote--smote fatally.

"Kate!--ah!--O God, have mercy!"

The wretched and unsuspecting victim fell back upon the earth with these last words--dead--sent
to his dread account, with all his sins upon his head! And what a dream of simple happiness
in two fond, feeble hearts, was thus cruelly and terribly dispersed for ever!

CHAPTER XXIII.

WHAT FOLLOWED THE MURDER.

There was a dreadful pause, after the commission of the deed, in which no word was spoken by
either of the parties. The murderer, meanwhile, with the utmost composure wiped his bloody
knife in the coat of the man whom he had slain. Boldly and coolly then, he broke the silence
which was certainly a painful one to Munro if not to himself.

"We shall hear no more of his insolence. I owed him a debt. It is paid. If fools will be in
the way of danger, they must take the consequences."

The landlord only groaned.

The murderer laughed.

"It is your luck," he said, "always to groan with devout feeling, when you have done the work
of the devil! You may spare your groans, if they are designed for repentance. They are always
too late!"

"It is a sad truth, though the devil said it."

"Well, rouse up, and let's be moving. So far, our ride has been for nothing. We must leave
this carrion to the vultures. What next? Will it be of any use to pursue this boy again to-night?
What say you? We must pursue and silence him of course; but we have pushed the brutes already
sufficiently to-night. They would be of little service to-night, in a longer chase."

The person addressed did not immediately reply, and when he spoke, did not answer to the speech
of his companion. His reply, at length, was framed in obedience to the gloomy and remorseful
course of his thought.

"It will be no wonder, Guy, if the whole country turn out upon us. You are too wanton in your
doings. Wherefore when I told you of your error, did you strike the poor wretch again."

The landlord, it will be seen, spoke simply with reference to policy and expediency, and deserved
as little credit for humanity as the individual he rebuked. In this particular lay the difference
between them. Both were equally ruffianly, but the one had less of passion, less of feeling,
and more of profession in the matter. With the other, the trade of crime was adopted strictly
in subservience to the dictates of ill-regulated desires and emotions, suffering defeat in
their hope of indulgence, and stimulating to a morbid action which became a disease. The references
of Munro were always addressed to the petty gains; and the miserly nature, thus perpetually
exhibiting itself, at the expense of all other emotions, was, in fact, the true influence which
subjected him almost to the sole dictation of his accomplice, in whom a somewhat lofty distaste
for such a peculiarity had occasioned a manner and habit of mind, the superiority of which
was readily felt by the other. Still, we must do the landlord the justice to say that he had
no such passion for bloodshed as characterized his companion.

"Why strike again!" was the response of Rivers. "You talk like a child. Would you have had
him live to blab? Saw you not that he knew us both? Are you so green as to think, if suffered
to escape, his tongue or hands would have been idle? You should know better. But the fact is,
he could not have lived. The first blow was fatal; and, if I had deliberated for an instant,
I should have followed the suggestions of your humanity--I should have withheld the second,
which merely terminated his agony."

"It was a rash and bloody deed, and I would we had made sure of your man before blindly rushing
into these unnecessary risks. It is owing to your insane love of blood, that you so frequently
blunder in your object"

"Your scruples and complainings, Wat, remind me of that farmyard philosopher, who always locked
the door of his stable after the steed had been stolen. You have your sermon ready in time
for the funeral, but not during the life for whose benefit you make it. But whose fault was
it that we followed the wrong game? Did you not make certain of the fresh track at the fork,
so that there was no doubting you?"

"I did--there was a fresh track, and our coming upon Forrester proves it. There may have been
another on the other prong of the fork, and doubtless the youth we pursue has taken that; but
you were in such an infernal hurry that I had scarce time to find out what I did."

"Well, you will preach no more on the subject. We have failed, and accounting for won't mend
the failure. As for this bull-headed fellow, he deserves his fate for his old insolence. He
was for ever putting himself in my way, and may not complain that I have at last put him out
of it. But come, we have no further need to remain here, though just as little to pursue further
in the present condition of our horses."

"What shall we do with the body? we can not leave it here."

"Why not?--What should we do with it, I pray? The wolves may want a dinner to-morrow, and I
would be charitable. Yet stay--where is the dirk which you found at the stable? Give it me."

"What would you do?"

"You shall see. Forrester's horse is off--fairly frightened, and will take the route back to
the old range. He will doubtless go to old Allen's clearing, and carry the first news. There
will be a search, and when they find the body, they will not overlook the weapon, which I shall
place beside it. There will then be other pursuers than me; and if it bring the boy to the
gallows, I shall not regret our mistake to night."

As he spoke, he took the dagger, the sheath of which he threw at some distance in advance upon
the road, then smeared the blade with the blood of the murdered man, and thrust the weapon
into his garments, near the wound.

"You are well taught in the profession, Guy, and, if you would let me, I would leave it off,
if for no other reason than the very shame of being so much outdone in it. But we may as well
strip him. If his gold is in his pouch, it will be a spoil worth the taking, for he has been
melting and running for several days past at Murkey's furnace."

Rivers turned away, and the feeling which his countenance exhibited might have been that of
disdainful contempt as he replied,

"Take it, if you please--I am in no want of his money. My object was not his robbery."

The scorn was seemingly understood; for, without proceeding to do as he proposed, Munro retained
his position for a few moments, appearing to busy himself with the bridle of his horse, having
adjusted which he returned to his companion.

"Well, are you ready for a start? We have a good piece to ride, and should be in motion. We
have both of us much to do in the next three days, or rather nights; and need not hesitate
what to take hold of first. The court will sit on Monday, and if you are determined to stand
and see it out--a plan which I don't altogether like--why, we must prepare to get rid of such
witnesses as we may think likely to become troublesome."

"That matter will be seen to. I have ordered Dillon to have ten men in readiness, if need be
for so many, to carry off Pippin, and a few others, till the adjournment. It will be a dear
jest to the lawyer, and one not less novel than terrifying to him, to miss a court under such
circumstances. I take it, he has never been absent from a session for twenty years; for, if
sick before, he is certain to get well in time for business, spite of his physician."

The grim smile which disfigured still more the visage of Rivers at the ludicrous association
which the proposed abduction of the lawyer awakened in his mind, was reflected fully back from
that of his companion, whose habit of face, however, in this respect, was more notorious for
gravity than any other less stable expression. He carried out, in words, the fancied occurrence;
described the lawyer as raving over his undocketed and unargued cases, and the numberless embryos
lying composedly in his pigeonholes, awaiting, with praiseworthy patience, the moment when
they should take upon them a local habitation and a name; while he, upon whom they so much
depended, was fretting with unassuaged fury in the constraints of his prison, and the absence
from that scene of his repeated triumphs which before had never been at a loss for his presence.

"But come--let us mount," said the landlord, who did not feel disposed to lose much time for
a jest. "There is more than this to be done yet in the village; and, I take it, you feel in
no disposition to waste more time to-night. Let us be off"

"So say I, but I go not back with you, Wat. I strike across the woods into the other road,
where I have much to see to; besides going down the branch to Dixon's Ford, and Wolf's Neck,
where I must look up our men and have them ready. I shall not be in the village, therefore,
until late to-morrow night--if then."

"What--you are for the crossroads, again," said Munro. "I tell you what, Guy, you must have
done with that girl before Lucy shall be yours. It's bad enough--bad enough that she should
be compelled to look to you for love. It were a sad thing if the little she might expect to
find were to be divided between two or more."

"Pshaw--you are growing Puritan because of the dark. I tell you I have done with her. I can
not altogether forget what she was, nor what I have made her; and just at this time she is
in need of my assistance. Good-night! I shall see Dillon and the rest of them by morning, and
prepare for the difficulty. My disguise shall be complete, and if you are wise you will see
to your own. I would not think of flight, for much may be made out of the country, and I know
of none better for our purposes. Good-night!"

Thus saying, the outlaw struck into the forest, and Munro, lingering until he was fairly out
of sight, proceeded to rifle the person of Forrester--an act which the disdainful manner and
language of his companion had made him hitherto forbear. The speech of Rivers on this subject
had been felt; and, taken in connection with the air of authority which the mental superiority
of the latter had necessarily imparted to his address, there was much in it highly offensive
to the less adventurous ruffian. A few moments sufficed to effect the lightening of the woodman's
purse of the earnings which had been so essential a feature in his dreams of cottage happiness;
and while engaged in this transfer, the discontent of the landlord with his colleague in crime,
occasionally broke out into words--

"He carries himself highly, indeed; and I must stand reproved whenever it pleases his humor.
Well, I am in for it now, and there is no chance of my getting safely out of the scrape just
at this moment; but the day will come, and, by G-d! I will have a settlement that'll go near
draining his heart of all the blood in it."

As he spoke in bitterness he approached his horse, and flinging the bridle over his neck, was
in a little while a good distance on his way from the scene of blood; over which Silence now
folded her wings, brooding undisturbed, as if nothing had taken place below; so little is the
sympathy which the transient and inanimate nature appears, at any time, to exhibit, with that
to the enjoyment of which it yields the bloom and odor of leaf and flower, soft zephyrs and
refreshing waters.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE FATES FAVOR THE FUGITIVE.

Let us now return to our young traveller, whose escape we have already narrated.

Utterly unconscious of the melancholy circumstance which had diverted his enemies from the
pursuit of himself, he had followed studiously the parting directions of the young maiden,
to whose noble feeling and fearless courage he was indebted for his present safety; and taken
the almost blind path which she had hastily described to him. On this route he had for some
time gone, with a motion not extravagantly free, but sufficiently so, having the start, and
with the several delays to which his pursuers had been subjected, to have escaped the danger--while
the vigor of his steed lasted--even had they fallen on the proper route. He had proceeded in
this way for several miles, when, at length, he came upon a place whence several roads diverged
into opposite sections of the country. Ignorant of the localities, he reined in his horse,
and deliberated with himself for a few moments as to the path he should pursue. While thus
engaged, a broad glare of flame suddenly illumined the woods on his left hand, followed with
the shrieks, equally sudden, seemingly of a woman.

There was no hesitation in the action of the youth. With unscrupulous and fearless precipitation,
he gave his horse the necessary direction, and with a smart application of the rowel, plunged
down the narrow path toward the spot from whence the alarm had arisen. As he approached, the
light grew more intense, and he at length discovered a little cottage-like dwelling, completely
embowered in thick foliage, through the crevices of which the flame proceeded, revealing the
cause of terror, and illuminating for some distance the dense woods around. The shrieks still
continued; and throwing himself from his horse, Ralph darted forward, and with a single and
sudden application of his foot, struck the door from its hinges, and entered the dwelling just
in time to save its inmates from the worst of all kinds of death.

The apartment was in a light blaze--the drapery of a couch which stood in one corner partially
consumed, and, at the first glance, the whole prospect afforded but little hope of a successful
struggle with the conflagration. There was no time to be lost, yet the scene was enough to
have paralyzed the nerves of the most heroic action.

On the couch thus circumstanced lay an elderly lady, seemingly in the very last stages of disease.
She seemed only at intervals conscious of the fire. At her side, in a situation almost as helpless
as her own, was the young female whose screams had first awakened the attention of the traveller.
She lay moaning beside the couch, shrieking at intervals, and though in momentary danger from
the flames, which continued to increase, taking no steps for their arrest. Her only efforts
were taken to raise the old woman from the couch, and to this, the strength of the young one
was wholly unequal. Ralph went manfully to work, and had the satisfaction of finding success
in his efforts. With a fearless hand he tore down the burning drapery which curtained the windows
and couch; and which, made of light cotton stuffs, presented a ready auxiliar to the progress
of the destructive element. Striking down the burning shutter with a single blow, he admitted
the fresh air, without which suffocation must soon have followed, and throwing from the apartment
such of the furniture as had been seized upon by the flames, he succeeded in arresting their
farther advance.

All this was the work of a few moments. There had been no word of intercourse between the parties,
and the youth now surveyed them with looks of curious inquiry, for the first time. The invalid,
as we have said, was apparently struggling with the last stages of natural decay. Her companion
was evidently youthful, in spite of those marks which even the unstudied eye might have discerned
in her features, of a temper and a spirit subdued and put to rest by the world's strife and
trial, and by afflictions which are not often found to crowd and to make up the history and
being of the young. Their position was peculiarly insulated, and Ralph wondered much at the
singularity of a scene to which his own experience could furnish no parallel. Here were two
lone women--living on the borders of a savage nation, and forming the frontier of a class of
whites little less savage, without any protection, and, to his mind, without any motive for
making such their abiding-place. His wonder might possibly have taken the shape of inquiry,
but that there was something of oppressive reserve and shrinking timidity in the air of the
young woman, who alone could have replied to his inquiries. At this time an old female negro
entered, now for the first time alarmed by the outcry, who assisted in removing such traces
of the fire as still remained about the room. She seemed to occupy a neighboring outhouse;
to which, having done what seemed absolutely necessary, she immediately retired.

Colleton, with a sentiment of the deepest commiseration, proceeded to reinstate things as they
might have been before the conflagration, and having done so, and having soothed, as far as
he well might, the excited apprehensions of the young girl, who made her acknowledgments in
a not unbecoming style, he ventured to ask a few questions as to the condition of the old lady
and of herself; but, finding from the answers that the subject was not an agreeable one, and
having no pretence for further delay, he prepared to depart. He inquired, however, his proper
route to the Chestatee river, and thus obtained a solution of the difficulty which beset him
in the choice of roads at the fork.

While thus employed, however, and just at the conclusion of his labors, there came another
personage upon the scene, to whom it is necessary that we should direct our attention.

It will be remembered that Rivers and Munro, after the murder of Forrester, had separated--the
latter on his return to the village--the other in a direction which seemed to occasion some
little dissatisfaction in the mind of his companion. After thus separating, Rivers, to whom
the whole country was familiar, taking a shorter route across the forest, by which the sinuosities
of the main road were generally avoided, entered, after the progress of a few miles, into the
very path pursued by Colleton, and which, had it been chosen by his pursuers in the first instance,
might have entirely changed the result of the pursuit. In taking this course it was not the
thought of the outlaw to overtake the individual whose blood he so much desired; but, with
an object which will have its development as we continue, he came to the cottage at the very
time when, having succeeded in overcoming the flames, Ralph was employed in a task almost as
difficult--that of reassuring the affrighted inmates, and soothing them against the apprehension
of farther danger.

With a caution which old custom had made almost natural in such cases, Rivers, as he approached
the cross-roads, concealed his horse in the cover of the woods, advanced noiselessly, and with
not a little surprise, to the cottage, whose externals had undergone no little alteration from
the loss of the shutter, the blackened marks, visible enough in the moonlight, around the window-frame,
and the general look of confusion which hung about it. A second glance made out the steed of
our traveller, which he approached and examined. The survey awakened all those emotions which
operated upon his spirit when referring to his successful rival; and, approaching the cottage
with extreme caution, he took post for a while at one of the windows, the shutter of which,
partially unclosed, enabled him to take in at a glance the entire apartment.

He saw, at once, the occasion which had induced the presence, in this situation, of his most
hateful enemy; and the thoughts were strangely discordant which thronged and possessed his
bosom. At one moment he had drawn his pistol to his eye--his finger rested upon the trigger,
and the doubt which interposed between the youth and eternity, though it sufficed for his safety
then, was of the most slight and shadowy description. A second time did the mood of murder
savagely possess his soul, and the weapon's muzzle fell pointblank upon the devoted bosom of
Ralph; when the slight figure of the young woman passing between, again arrested the design
of the outlaw, who, with muttered curses, uncocking, returned the weapon to his belt.

Whatever might have been the relationship between himself and these females, there was an evident
reluctance on the part of Rivers to exhibit his ferocious hatred of the youth before those
to whom he had just rendered a great and unquestioned service; and, though untroubled by any
feeling of gratitude on their behalf, or on his own, he was yet unwilling, believing, as he
did, that his victim was now perfectly secure, that they should undergo any further shock,
at a moment too of such severe suffering and trial as must follow in the case of the younger,
from those fatal pangs which were destroying the other.

Ralph now prepared to depart; and taking leave of the young woman, who alone seemed conscious
of his services, and warmly acknowledged them, he proceeded to the door. Rivers, who had watched
his motions attentively, and heard the directions given him by the girl for his progress, at
the same moment left the window, and placed himself under the shelter of a huge tree, at a
little distance on the path which his enemy was directed to pursue. Here he waited like the
tiger, ready to take the fatal leap, and plunge his fangs into the bosom of his victim. Nor
did he wait long.

Ralph was soon upon his steed, and on the road; but the Providence that watches over and protects
the innocent was with him, and it happened, most fortunately, that just before he reached the
point at which his enemy stood in watch, the badness of the road had compelled those who travelled
it to diverge aside for a few paces into a little by-path, which, at a little distance beyond,
and when the bad places had been rounded, brought the traveller again into the proper path.
Into this by-path, the horse of Colleton took his way; the rider neither saw the embarrassments
of the common path, nor that his steed had turned aside from them. It was simply providential
that the instincts of the horse were more heedful than the eyes of the horseman.

It was just a few paces ahead, and on the edge of a boggy hollow that Guy Rivers had planted
himself in waiting. The tread of the young traveller's steed, diverging from the route which
he watched, taught the outlaw the change which it was required that he should also make in
his position.

"Curse him!" he muttered. "Shall there be always something in the way of my revenge?"

Such was his temper, that everything which baffled him in his object heightened his ferocity
to a sort of madness. But this did not prevent his prompt exertion to retrieve the lost ground.
The "turn-out" did not continue fifty yards, before it again wound into the common road, and
remembering this, the outlaw hurried across the little copse which separated the two routes
for a space. The slow gait at which Colleton now rode, unsuspicious of danger, enabled his
enemy to gain the position which he sought, close crouching on the edge of the thicket, just
where the roads again united. Here he waited--not many seconds.

The pace of our traveller, we have said, was slow. We may add that his mood was also inattentive.
He was not only unapprehensive of present danger, but his thoughts were naturally yielded to
the condition of the two poor women, in that lonely abode of forest, whom he had just rescued,
in all probability, from a fearful death. Happy with the pleasant consciousness of a good action
well performed, and with spirits naturally rising into animation, freed as they were from a
late heavy sense of danger--he was as completely at the mercy of the outlaw who awaited him,
pistol in hand, as if he lay, as his poor friend, Forrester, so recently had done, directly
beneath his knife.

And so thought Rivers, who heard the approaching footsteps, and now caught a glimpse of his
approaching shadow.

The outlaw deliberately lifted his pistol. It was already cocked. His form was sheltered by
a huge tree, and as man and horse gradually drew nigh, the breathing of the assassin seemed
almost suspended in his ferocious anxiety for blood.

The dark shadow moved slowly along the path. The head of the horse is beside the outlaw. In
a moment the rider will occupy the same spot--and then! The finger of the outlaw is upon the
trigger--the deadly aim is taken!--what arrests the deed? Ah! surely there is a Providence--a
special arm to save--to interpose between the criminal and his victim--to stay the wilful hands
of the murderer, when the deed seems already done, as it has been already determined upon.

Even in that moment, when but a touch is necessary to destroy the unconscious traveller--a
sudden rush is heard above the robber. Great wings sweep away, with sudden clatter, and the
dismal hootings of an owl, scared from his perch on a low shrub-tree, startles the cold-blooded
murderer from his propriety. With the nervous excitement of his mind, and his whole nature
keenly interested in the deed, to break suddenly the awful silence, the brooding hush of the
forest, with unexpected sounds, and those so near, and so startling--for once the outlaw ceased
to be the master of his own powers!

The noise of the bird scared the steed. He dashed headlong forward, and saved the life of his
rider!

Yet Ralph Colleton never dreamed of his danger--never once conjectured how special was his
obligations to the interposing hand of Providence! And so, daily, with the best of us--and
the least fortunate. How few of us ever dream of the narrow escapes we make, at moments when
a breath might kill us, when the pressure of a "bare bodkin" is all that is necessary to send
us to sudden judgment!

And the outlaw was again defeated. He had not, perhaps, been scared. He had only been surprised--been
confounded. In the first cry of the bird, the first rush of his wings, flapping through the
trees, it seemed as if they had swept across his eyes. He lowered the pistol involuntarily--he
forgot to pull the trigger, and when he recovered himself, steed and rider had gone beyond
his reach.

"Is there a devil," he involuntarily murmured, "that stands between me and my victim? am I
to be baffled always? Is there, indeed, a God?"

He paused in stupor and vexation. He could hear the distant tramp of the horse, sinking faintly
out of hearing.

"That I, who have lived in the woods all my life, should have been startled by an owl, and
at such a moment!"

Cursing the youth's good fortune, not less than his own weakness, the fierce disappointment
of Guy Rivers was such that he fairly gnashed his teeth with vexation. At first, he thought
to dash after his victim, but his own steed had been fastened near the cottage, several hundred
yards distant, and he was winded too much for a further pursuit that night.

Colleton was, meanwhile, a mile ahead, going forward swimmingly, never once dreaming of danger.
He was thus far safe. So frequently and completely had his enemy been baffled in the brief
progress of a single night, that he was almost led to believe--for, like most criminals, he
was not without his superstition--that his foe was under some special guardianship. With ill-concealed
anger, and a stern impatience, he turned.

CHAPTER XXV.

SUBDUED AGONIES.

The entrance of Guy Rivers awakened no emotion among the inmates of the dwelling; indeed, at
the moment, it was almost unperceived. The young woman happened to be in close attendance upon
her parent, for such the invalid was, and did not observe his approach, while he stood at some
little distance from the couch, surveying the scene. The old lady was endeavoring, though with
a feebleness that grew more apparent with every breath, to articulate something, to which she
seemed to attach much importance, in the ears of the kneeling girl, who, with breathless attention,
seemed desirous of making it out, but in vain; and, signifying by her countenance the disappointment
which she felt, the speaker, with something like anger, shook her skinny finger feebly in her
face, and the broken and incoherent words, with rapid effort but like success, endeavored to
find their way through the half-closed aperture between her teeth. The tears fell fast and
full from the eyes of the kneeling girl, who neither sobbed nor spoke, but, with continued
and yet despairing attention, endeavored earnestly to catch the few words of one who was on
the eve of departure, and the words of whom, at such a moment, almost invariably acquire a
value never attached to them before: as the sounds of a harp, when the chords are breaking,
are said to articulate a sweet sorrow, as if in mourning for their own fate.

The outlaw, all this while, stood apart and in silence. Although perhaps but little impressed
with the native solemnity of the scene before him, he was not so ignorant of what was due to
humanity, and not so unfeeling in reference to the parties here interested, as to seek to disturb
its progress or propriety with tone, look, or gesture, which might make either of them regret
his presence. Becoming impatient, however, of a colloquy which, as he saw that it had not its
use, and was only productive of mortification to one of the parties, he thought only prudent
to terminate, he advanced toward them; and his tread, for the first time, warned them of his
presence.

With an effort which seemed supernatural, the dying woman raised herself with a sudden start
in the bed, and her eyes glared upon him with a threatening horror, and her lips parting, disclosed
the broken and decayed teeth beneath, ineffectually gnashing, while her long, skinny fingers
warned him away. All this time she appeared to speak, but the words were unarticulated, though,
from the expression of every feature, it was evident that indignation and reproach made up
the entire amount of everything she had to express. The outlaw was not easily influenced by
anger so impotent as this; and, from his manner of receiving it, it appeared that he had been
for some time accustomed to a reception of a like kind from the same person. He approached
the young girl, who had now risen from her knees, and spoke to her in words of comparative
kindness:--

"Well, Ellen, you have had an alarm, but I am glad to see you have suffered no injury. How
happened the fire?"

The young woman explained the cause of the conflagration, and narrated in brief the assistance
which had been received from the stranger.

"But I was so terrified, Guy," she added, "that I had not presence of mind enough to thank him."

"And what should be the value of your spoken thanks, Ellen? The stranger, if he have sense,
must feel that he has them, and the utterance of such things had better be let alone. But,
how is the old lady now? I see she loves me no better than formerly."

"She is sinking fast, Guy, and is now incapable of speech. Before you came, she seemed desirous
of saying something to me, but she tried in vain to speak, and now I scarcely think her conscious."

"Believe it not, Ellen: she is conscious of all that is going on, though her voice may fail
her. Her eye is even now fixed upon me, and with the old expression. She would tear me if she
could."

"Oh, think not thus of the dying, Guy--of her who has never harmed, and would never harm you,
if she had the power. And yet, Heaven knows, and we both know, she has had reason enough to
hate, and, if she could, to destroy you. But she has no such feeling now."

"You mistake, Ellen, or would keep the truth from me. You know she has always hated me; and,
indeed, as you say, she has had cause enough to hate and destroy me. Had another done to me
as I have done to her, I should not have slept till my hand was in his heart."

"She forgives you all, Guy, I know she does, and God knows I forgive you--I, who, above all
others, have most reason to curse you for ever. Think not that she can hate upon the brink
of the grave. Her mind wanders, and no wonder that the wrongs of earth press upon her memory,
her reason being gone. She knows not herself of the mood which her features express. Look not
upon her, Guy, I pray you, or let me turn away my eyes."

"Your spirit, Ellen, is more gentle and shrinking than hers. Had you felt like her, I verily
believe that many a night, when I have been at rest within your arms, you would have driven
a knife into my heart."

"Horrible, Guy! how can you imagine such a thing? Base and worthless as you have made me, I
am too much in your power, I fear--I love you still too much; and, though like a poison or
a firebrand you have clung to my bosom, I could not have felt for you a single thought of resentment.
You say well when you call me shrinking. I am a creature of a thousand fears; I am all weakness
and worthlessness."

"Well, well--let us not talk further of this. When was the doctor here last?"

"In the evening he came, and left some directions, but told us plainly what we had to expect.
He said she could not survive longer than the night; and she looks like it, for within the
last few hours she has sunk surprisingly. But have you brought the medicine?"

"I have, and some drops which are said to stimulate and strengthen."

"I fear they are now of little use, and may only serve to keep up life in misery. But they
may enable her to speak, and I should like to hear what she seems so desirous to impart."

Ellen took the cordial, and hastily preparing a portion in a wine-glass, according to the directions,
proceeded to administer it to the gasping patient; but, while the glass was at her lips, the
last paroxysm of death came on, and with it something more of that consciousness now fleeting
for ever. Dashing aside the nostrum with one hand, with the other she drew the shrinking and
half-fainting girl to her side, and, pressing her down beside her, appeared to give utterance
to that which, from the action, and the few and audible words she made out to articulate, would
seem to have been a benediction.

Rivers, seeing the motion, and remarking the almost supernatural strength with which the last
spasms had endued her, would have taken the girl from her embrace; but his design was anticipated
by the dying woman, whose eyes glared upon him with an expression rather demoniac than human,
while her paralytic hand, shaking with ineffectual effort, waved him off. A broken word escaped
her lips here and there, and--"sin"--"forgiveness"--was all that reached the ears of her grandchild,
when her head sank back upon the pillow, and she expired without a groan.

A dead silence followed this event. The girl had no uttered anguish--she spoke not her sorrows
aloud; yet there was that in the wobegone countenance, and the dumb grief, that left no doubt
of the deep though suppressed and half-subdued agony of soul within. She seemed one to whom
the worst of life had been long since familiar, and who would not find it difficult herself
to die. She had certainly outlived pride and hope, if not love; and if the latter feeling had
its place in her bosom, as without doubt it had, then was it a hopeless lingerer, long after
the sunshine and zephyr had gone which first awakened it into bloom and flower. She knelt beside
the inanimate form of her old parent, shedding no tear, and uttering no sigh. Tears would have
poorly expressed the wo which at that moment she felt; and the outlaw, growing impatient of
the dumb spectacle, now ventured to approach and interrupt her. She rose, meekly and without
reluctance, as he spoke; with a manner which said as plainly as words could have, said--'Command,
and I obey. Bid me go even now, at midnight, on a perilous journey, over and into foreign lands,
and I go without murmur or repining.' She was a heart-stricken, a heart-broken, and abused
woman--and yet she loved still, and loved her destroyer.

"Ellen," said he, taking her hand, "your mother was a Christian--a strict worshipper--one who,
for the last few years of her life, seldom put the Bible out of her hands; and yet she cursed
me in her very soul as she went out of the world."

"Guy, Guy, speak not so, I pray you. Spare me this cruelty, and say not for the departed spirit
what it surely never would have said of itself."

"But it did so say, Ellen, and of this I am satisfied. Hear me, girl. I know something of mankind,
and womankind too, and I am not often mistaken in the expression of human faces, and certainly
was not mistaken in hers. When, in the last paroxysm, you knelt beside her with your head down
upon her hand and in her grasp, and as I approached her, her eyes, which feebly threw up the
film then rapidly closing over them, shot out a most angry glare of hatred and reproof; while
her lips parted--I could see, though she could articulate no word--with involutions which indicated
the curse that she could not speak."

"Think not so, I pray you. She had much cause to curse, and often would she have done so, but
for my sake she did not. She would call me a poor fool, that so loved the one who had brought
misery and shame to all of us; but her malediction was arrested, and she said it not. Oh, no!
she forgave you--I know she did--heard you not the words which she uttered at the last?"

"Yes, yes--but no matter. We must now talk of other things, Ellen; and first of all, you must
know, then, I am about to be married."

Had a bolt from the crossbow at that moment penetrated into her heart, the person he addressed
could not have been more transfixed than at this speech. She started--an inquiring and tearful
doubt rose into her eyes, as they settled piercingly upon his own; but the information they
met with there needed no further word of assurance from his lips. He was a stern tyrant--one,
however, who did not trifle.

"I feared as much, Guy--I have had thoughts which as good as told me this long before. The
silent form before me has said to me, over and over again, you would never wed her whom you
have dishonored. Oh, fool that I was!--spite of her forebodings and my own, I thought--I still
think, and oh, Guy, let me not think in vain--that there would be a time when you would take
away the reproach from my name and the sin from my soul, by making me your wife, as you have
so often promised."

"You have indeed thought like a child, Ellen, if you suppose that, situated as I am, I could
ever marry simply because I loved."

"And will you not love her whom you are now about to wed?"

"Not as much as I have loved you--not half so much as I love you now--if it be that I have
such a feeling at this moment in my bosom."

"And wherefore then would you wed, Guy, with one whom you do not, whom you can not love? In
what have I offended--have I ever reproached or looked unkindly on you, Guy, even when you
came to me, stern and full of reproaches, chafed with all things and with everybody?"

"There are motives, Ellen, governing my actions into which you must not inquire--"

"What, not inquire, when on these actions depend all my hope--all my life! Now indeed you are
the tyrant which my old mother said, and all people say, you are."

The girl for a moment forgot her submissiveness, and her words were tremulous, less with sorrow
than the somewhat strange spirit which her wrongs had impressed upon her. But sue soon felt
the sinking of the momentary inspiration, and quickly sought to remove the angry scowl which
she perceived coming over the brow of her companion.

"Nay, nay--forgive me, Guy--let me not reproach--let me not accuse you. I have not done so
before: I would not do so now. Do with me as you please; and yet, if you are bent to wed with
another, and forget and overlook your wrongs to me, there is one kindness which would become
your hands, and which I would joy to receive from them. Will you do for me this kindness, Guy?
Nay, now be not harsh, but say that you will do it."

She seized his hand appealingly as she spoke, and her moist but untearful eyes were fixed pleadingly
upon his own. The outlaw hesitated for a moment before he replied.

"I propose, Ellen, to do for you all that may be necessary--to provide you with additional
comforts, and carry you to a place of additional security, where you shall live to yourself,
and have good attendance."

"This is kind--this is much, Guy; but not much more than you have been accustomed to do for
me. That which I seek from you now is something more than this; promise me that it shall be
as I say."

"If it breaks not into my arrangements--if it makes me not go aside from my path, I will certainly
do it, Ellen. Speak, therefore; what is it I can do for you?"

"It will interfere with none of your arrangements, Guy, I am sure; it can not take you from
your path, for you could not have provided for that of which you knew not. I have your pledge,
therefore--have I not?"

"You have," was the reply, while the manner of Rivers was tinctured with something like curiosity.

"That is kind--that is as you ought to be. Hear me now, then," and her voice sunk into a whisper,
as if she feared the utterance of her own words; "take your knife, Guy--pause not, do it quickly,
lest I fear and tremble--strike it deep into the bosom of the poor Ellen, and lay her beside
the cold parent, whose counsels she despised, and all of whose predictions are now come true.
Strike--strike quickly, Guy Rivers; I have your promise--you can not recede; if you have honor,
if you have truth, you must do as I ask. Give me death--give me peace."

"Foolish girl, would you trifle with me--would you have me spurn and hate you? Beware!"

The outlaw well knew the yielding and sensitive material out of which his victim had been made.
His stern rebuke was well calculated to effect in her bosom that revulsion of feeling which
he knew would follow any threat of a withdrawal, even of the lingering and frail fibres of
that affection, few and feeble as they were, which he might have once persuaded her to believe
had bound him to her. The consequence was immediate, and her subdued tone and resigned action
evinced the now entire supremacy of her natural temperament.

"Oh, forgive me, Guy, I know not what I ask or what I do. I am so worn and weary, and my head
is so heavy, that I think it were far better if I were in my grave with the cold frame whom
we shall soon put there. Heed not what I say--I am sad and sick, and have not the spirit of
reason, or a healthy will to direct me. Do with me as you will--I will obey you--go anywhere,
and, worst of all, behold you wed another; ay, stand by, if you desire it, and look on the
ceremony, and try to forget that you once promised me that I should be yours, and yours only."

"You speak more wisely, Ellen; and you will think more calmly upon it when the present grief
of your grandmother's death passes off."

"Oh, that is no grief, now, Guy," was the rather hasty reply. "That is no grief now: should
I regret that she has escaped these tidings--should I regret that she has ceased to feel trouble,
and to see and shed tears--should I mourn, Guy, that she who loved me to the last, in spite
of my follies and vices, has ceased now to mourn over them? Oh, no! this is no grief, now;
it was grief but a little while ago, but now you have made it matter of rejoicing."

"Think not of it,--speak no more in this strain, Ellen, lest you anger me."

"I will not--chide me not--I have no farther reproaches. Yet, Guy, is she, the lady you are
about to wed--is she beautiful, is she young--has she long raven tresses, as I had once, when
your fingers used to play in them?" and with a sickly smile, which had in it something of an
old vanity, she unbound the string which confined her own hair, and let it roll down upon her
back in thick and beautiful volumes, still black, glossy and delicately soft as silk.

The outlaw was moved. For a moment his iron muscles relaxed--a gentler expression overspread
his countenance, and he took her in his arms. That single, half-reluctant embrace was a boon
not much bestowed in the latter days of his victim, and it awakened a thousand tender recollections
in her heart, and unsealed a warm spring of gushing waters. An infantile smile was in her eyes,
while the tears were flowing down her cheeks.

But, shrinking or yielding, at least to any great extent, made up very little of the character
of the dark man on whom she depended; and the more than feminine weakness of the young girl
who hung upon his bosom like a dying flower, received its rebuke, after a few moments of unwonted
tenderness, when, coldly resuming his stern habit, he put her from his arms, and announced
to her his intention of immediately taking his departure.

"What," she asked, "will you not stay with me through the night, and situated as I am?"

"It is impossible; even now I am waited for, and should have been some hours on my way to an
appointment which I must not break. It is not with me as with you; I have obligations to others
who depend on me, and who might suffer injury were I to deceive them."

"But this night, Guy--there is little of it left, and I am sure you will not be expected before
the daylight. I feel a new terror when I think I shall be left by all, and here, too, alone
with the dead."

"You will not be alone, and if you were, Ellen, you have been thus lonely for many months past,
and should be now accustomed to it."

"Why, so I should, for it has been a fearful and a weary time, and I went not to my bed one
night without dreading that I should never behold another day."

"Why, what had you to alarm you? you suffered no affright--no injury? I had taken care that
throughout the forest your cottage should be respected."

"So I had your assurance, and when I thought, I believed it. I knew you had the power to do
as you assured me you would, but still there were moments when our own desolation came across
my mind; and what with my sorrows and my fears, I was sometimes persuaded, in my madness, to
pray that I might be relieved of them, were it even by the hands of death."

"You were ever thus foolish, Ellen, and you have as little reason now to apprehend as then.
Besides, it is only for the one night, and in the morning I shall send those to you who will
attend to your own removal to another spot, and to the interment of the body."

"And where am I to go?"

"What matters it where, Ellen? You have my assurance that it shall be a place of security and
good attendance to which I shall send you."

"True, what matters it where I go--whether among the savage or the civilized? They are to me
all alike, since I may not look them in the face, or take them by the hand, or hold communion
with them, either at the house of God or at the family fireside."

The gloomy despondence of her spirit was uppermost; and she went on, in a series of bitter
musings, denouncing herself as an outcast, a worthless something, and, in the language of the
sacred text, calling on the rocks and mountains to cover her. The outlaw, who had none of those
fine feelings which permitted of even momentary sympathy with that desolation of heart, the
sublime agonies of which are so well calculated to enlist and awaken it, cut short the strain
of sorrow and complaint by a fierce exclamation, which seemed to stun every sense of her spirit.

"Will you never have done?" he demanded. "Am I for ever to listen to this weakness--this unavailing
reproach of yourself and everything around you? Do I not know that all your complaints and
reproaches, though you address them in so many words to yourself, are intended only for my
use and ear? Can I not see through the poor hypocrisy of such a lamentation? Know I not that
when you curse and deplore the sin you only withhold the malediction from him who tempted and
partook of it, in the hope that his own spirit will apply it all to himself? Away, girl; I
thought you had a nobler spirit--I thought you felt the love that I now find existed only in
expression."

"I do feel that love; I would, Guy that I felt it not--that it did exist only in my words.
I were then far happier than I am now, since stern look or language from you would then utterly
fail to vex and wound as it does now. I can not bear your reproaches; look not thus upon me,
and speak not in those harsh sentences--not now--not now, at least, and in this melancholy
presence."

Her looks turned upon the dead body of her parent as she spoke, and with convulsive effort
she rushed toward and clasped it round. She threw herself beside the corpse and remained inanimate,
while the outlaw, leaving the house for an instant, called the negro servant and commanded
her attendance. He now approached the girl, and taking up her hand, which lay supine upon the
bosom of the dead body, would have soothed her grief; but though she did not repulse, she yet
did not regard him.

"Be calm, Ellen," he said, "recover and be firm. In the morning you shall have early and good
attention, and with this object, in part, am I disposed to hurry now. Think not, girl, that
I forget you. Whatever may be my fortune, I shall always have an eye to yours. I leave you
now, but shall see you before long, when I shall settle you permanently and comfortably. Farewell."

He left her in seeming unconsciousness of the words whispered in her ears, yet she heard them
all, and duly estimated their value. To her, to whom he had once pledged himself entirely,
the cold boon of his attention and sometime care was painfully mortifying. She exhibited nothing,
however, beyond what we have already seen, of the effect of this consolation upon her heart.
There is a period in human emotions, when feeling itself becomes imperceptible--when the heart
(as it were) receives the coup de grace, and days, and months, and years, before the body expires,
shows nothing of the fire which is consuming it.

We would not have it understood to be altogether the case with the young destitute before us;
but, at least, if she still continued to feel these still-occurring influences, there was little
or no outward indication of their power upon the hidden spirit. She said nothing to him on
his departure, but with a half-wandering sense, that may perhaps have described something of
the ruling passion of an earlier day, she rose shortly after he had left the house, and placing
herself before the small mirror which surmounted the toilet in the apartment, rearranged with
studious care, and with an eye to its most attractive appearance, the long and flowing tresses
of that hair, which, as we have already remarked, was of the most silky and raven-like description.
Every ringlet was adjusted to its place, as if nothing of sorrow was about her--none of the
badges and evidences of death and decay in her thought. She next proceeded to the readjustment
of the dress she wore, taking care that a string of pearl, probably the gift of her now indifferent
lover, should leave its place in the little cabinet, where, with other trinkets of the kind,
it had been locked up carefully for a long season, and once more adorned with it the neck which
it failed utterly to surpass in delicacy or in whiteness. Having done this, she again took
her place on the couch, along with the corpse; and with a manner which did not appear to indicate
a doubt of the still lingering spirit, she raised the lifeless head, with the gentlest effort
placing her arm beneath, then laid her own quietly on the pillow beside it.

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE CAMP.

Ignorant, as we have already said, of his late most providential escape from the weapon of
his implacable enemy, Ralph Colleton was borne forward by his affrighted steed with a degree
of rapidity which entirely prevented his rider from remarking any of the objects around him,
or, indeed, as the moon began to wane amid a clustering body of clouds, of determining positively
whether he were still in the road or not. The trace (as public roads are called in that region)
had been rudely cut out by some of the earlier travellers through the Indian country, merely
traced out--and hence, perhaps, the term--by a blaze, or white spot, made upon the trees by
hewing from them the bark; which badge, repeated in succession upon those growing immediately
upon the line chosen for the destined road, indicated its route to the wayfarer. It had never
been much travelled, and from the free use at the present time of other and more direct courses,
it was left almost totally unemployed, save by those living immediately in its neighborhood.
It had, therefore, become, at the time of which we speak, what, in backwood phrase, is known
as a blind-path.

Such being the case, it is not difficult to imagine that, when able to restrain his horse,
Ralph, as he feared, found himself entirely out of its guidance--wandering without direction
among the old trees of the forest. Still, as for the night, now nearly over, he could have
no distinct point in view, and saw just as little reason to go back as forward, he gave himself
but little time for scruple or hesitation. Resolutely, though with a cautious motion, he pricked
his steed forward through the woods, accommodating his philosophy, as well as he could, to
the various interruptions which the future, as if to rival the past, seemed to have treasured
up in store for him.

He had not proceeded far in this manner when he caught the dim rays of a distant fire, flickering
and ascending among the trees to the left of the direction he was taking. The blaze had something
in it excessively cheering, and, changing his course, he went forward under its guidance. In
this effort, he stumbled upon something like a path, which, pursuing, brought him at length
to a small and turbid creek, into which he plunged fearlessly, and soon found himself in swimming
water. The ford had been little used, and the banks were steep, so that he got out with difficulty
upon the opposite side. Having done so, his eye was enabled to take a full view of the friendly
fire which had just attracted his regard, and which he soon made out to proceed from the encampment
of a wagoner, such as may be seen every day, or every night, in the wild woods of the southern
country.

He was emigrating, with all his goods and gods, to that wonderfully winning region, in the
estimation of this people, the valley of the Mississippi. The emigrant was a stout, burly,
bluff old fellow, with full round cheeks, a quick, twinkling eye, and limbs rather Herculean
than human. He might have been fifty-five years or so; and his two sons, one of them a man
grown, the other a tall and goodly youth of eighteen, promised well to be just such vigorous
and healthy-looking personages as their father. The old woman, by whom we mean--in the manner
of speech common to the same class and region--to indicate the spouse of the wayfarer, and
mother of the two youths, was busied about the fire, boiling a pot of coffee, and preparing
the family repast for the night. A somewhat late hour for supper and such employment, thought
our wanderer; but the difficulty soon explained itself in the condition of their wagon, and
the conversation which ensued among the travellers. There was yet another personage in the
assembly, who must be left to introduce himself to the reader.

The force of the traveller--for such is the term by which the number of his slaves are understood--was
small, consisting of some six workers, and three or four little negro children asleep under
the wagon. The workers were occupied at a little distance, in replacing boxes, beds, and some
household trumpery, which had been taken out of the wagon, to enable them to effect its release
from the slough in which it had cast one of its wheels, and broken its axle, and the restoration
of which had made their supper so late in the night. The heavier difficulties of their labor
had been got over, and with limbs warmed and chafed by the extra exercise they had undergone,
the whites had thrown themselves under a tree, at a little distance from the fire at which
the supper was in preparation, while a few pine torches, thrown together, gave them sufficient
light to read and remark the several countenances of their group.

"Well, by dogs, we've had a tough 'bout of it, boys; and, hark'ye, strannger, gi' us your hand.
I don't know what we should have done without you, for I never seed man handle a little poleaxe
as you did that same affair of your'n. You must have spent, I reckon, a pretty smart time at
the use of it, now, didn't ye?"

To this speech of the farmer, a ready reply was given by the stranger, in the identical voice
and language of our old acquaintance, the pedler, Jared Bunce, of whom, and of whose stock
in trade, the reader will probably have some recollection.

"Well, now, I guess, friend, you an't far wide of your reckoning. I've been a matter of some
fifteen or twenty years knocking about, off and on, in one way or another, with this same instrument,
and pretty's the service now, I tell ye, that it's done me in that bit of time."

"No doubt, no doubt; but what's your trade, if I may be so bold, that made you larn the use
of it so nicely?"

"Oh, what--my trade? Why, to say the truth, I never was brought up to any trade in particular,
but I am a pretty slick hand, now, I tell you, at all of them. I've been in my time a little
of a farmer, a little of a merchant, a little of a sailor, and, somehow or other, a little
of everything, and all sort of things. My father was jest like myself, and swore, before I
was born, that I should be born jest like him--and so I was. Never were two black peas more
alike. He was a 'cute old fellow, and swore he'd make me so too--and so he did. You know how
he did that?--now, I'll go a York shilling against a Louisiana bit, that you can't tell to
save you."

"Why, no, I can't--let's hear," was the response of the wagoner, somewhat astounded by the
volubility of his new acquaintance.

"Well, then, I'll tell you. He sent me away, to make my fortin, and git my edication, 'mongst
them who was 'cute themselves, and maybe that an't the best school for larning a simple boy
ever went to. It was sharp edge agin sharp edge. It was the very making of me, so far as I
was made."

"Well, now, that is a smart way, I should reckon, to get one's edication. And in this way I
suppose you larned how to chop with your little poleaxe. Dogs! but you've made me as smart
a looking axle as I ever tacked to my team."

"I tell you, friend, there's nothing like sich an edication. It does everything for a man,
and he larns to make everything out of nothing. I could make my bread where these same Indians
wouldn't find the skin of a hoe-cake; and in these woods, or in the middle of the sea, t'ant
anything for me to say I can always fish up some notion that will sell in the market."

"Well, now, that's wonderful, strannger, and I should like to see how you would do it."

"You can't do nothing, no how, friend, unless you begin at the beginning. You'll have to begin
when you're jest a mere boy, and set about getting your edication as I got mine. There's no
two ways about it. It won't come to you; you must go to it. When you're put out into the wide
world, and have no company and no acquaintance, why, what are you to do? Suppose, now, when
your wagon mired down, I had not come to your help, and cut out your wood, and put in the spoke,
wouldn't you have had to do it yourself?"

"Yes--to be sure; but then I couldn't have done it in a day. I an't handy at these things."

"Well, that was jest the way with me when I was a boy. I had nobody to help me out of the mud--nobody
to splice my spokes, or assist me any how, and so I larned to do it myself. And now, would
you think it, I'm sometimes glad of a little turn-over, or an accident, jest that I may keep
my hand in and not forget to be able to help myself or my neighbors."

"Well, you're a cur'ous person, and I'd like to hear something more about you. But it's high
time we should wet our whistles, and it's but dry talking without something to wash a clear
way for the slack. So, boys, be up, and fish up the jemmi-john--I hope it hain't been thumped
to bits in the rut. If it has, I shall be in a tearing passion."

"Well, now, that won't be reasonable, seeing that it's no use, and jest wasting good breath
that might bring a fair price in the market."

"What, not get in a passion if all the whiskey's gone? That won't do, strannger, and though
you have helped me out of the ditch, by, dogs, no man shall prevent me from getting in a passion
if I choose it."

"Oh, to be sure, friend--you an't up to my idee. I didn't know that it was for the good it
did you that you got in a passion. I am clear that when a man feels himself better from a passion,
he oughtn't to be shy in getting into it. Though that wasn't a part of my edication, yet I
guess, if such a thing would make me feel more comfortable, I'd get in a passion fifty times
a day."

"Well, now, strannger, you talk like a man of sense. 'Drot the man, says I, who hain't the
courage to get in a passion! None but a miserable, shadow-skinning Yankee would refuse to get
in a passion when his jug of whiskey was left in the road!"

"A-hem--" coughed the dealer in small wares--the speech of the old wagoner grating harshly
upon his senses; for if the Yankee be proud of anything, it is of his country--its enterprise,
its institutions; and of these, perhaps, he has more true and unqualified reason to be pleased
and proud than any other one people on the face of the globe. He did not relish well the sitting
quietly under the harsh censure of his companion, who seemed to regard the existence of a genuine
emotion among the people down east as a manifest absurdity; and was thinking to come out with
a defence, in detail, of the pretensions of New England, when, prudence having first taken
a survey of the huge limbs of the wagoner, and calling to mind the fierce prejudices of the
uneducated southrons generally against all his tribe, suggested the convenient propriety of
an evasive reply.

"A-hem--" repeated the Yankee, the argumentum ad hominem still prominent in his eyes--"well,
now, I take it, friend, there's no love to spare for the people you speak of down in these
parts. They don't seem to smell at all pleasant in this country."

"No, I guess not, strannger, as how should they--a mean, tricky, catchpenny, skulking set--that
makes money out of everybody, and hain't the spirit to spend it! I do hate them, now, worse
than a polecat!"

"Well, now, friend, that's strange. If you were to travel for a spell, down about Boston or
Salem in Massachusetts, or at Meriden in Connecticut, you'd hear tell of the Yankees quite
different. If you believe what the people say thereabouts, you'd think there was no sich people
on the face of the airth."

"That's jist because they don't know anything about them; and it's not because they can't know
them neither, for a Yankee is a varmint you can nose anywhere. It must be that none ever travels
in those parts--selling their tin-kettles, and their wooden clocks, and all their notions."

"Oh, yes, they do. They make 'em in those parts. I know it by this same reason, that I bought
a lot myself from a house in Connecticut, a town called Meriden, where they make almost nothing
else but clocks--where they make 'em by steam, and horse-power, and machinery, and will turn
you out a hundred or two to a minute."

The pedler had somewhat "overleaped his shoulders," as they phrase it in the West, when his
companion drew himself back over the blazing embers, with a look of ill-concealed aversion,
exclaiming, as he did so--

"Why, you ain't a Yankee, air you?"

The pedler was a special pleader in one sense of the word, and knew the value of a technical
distinction as well as his friend, Lawyer Pippin. His reply was prompt and professional:--

"Why, no, I ain't a Yankee according to your idee. It's true, I was born among them; but that,
you know, don't make a man one on them?"

"No, to be sure not. Every man that's a freeman has a right to choose what country he shall
belong to. My dad was born in Ireland, yet he always counted himself a full-blooded American."

The old man found a parallel in his father's nativity, which satisfied himself of the legitimacy
of the ground taken by the pedler, and helped the latter out of his difficulty.

"But here's the whiskey standing by us all the time, waiting patiently to be drunk. Here, Nick
Snell, boy, take your hands out of your breeches-pocket, and run down with the calabash to
the branch. The water is pretty good thar, I reckon; and, strannger, after we've taken a sup,
we'll eat a bite, and then lie down. It's high time, I reckon, that we do so."

It was in his progress to the branch that Ralph Colleton came upon this member of the family.

Nick Snell was no genius, and did not readily reply to the passing inquiry which was put to
him by the youth, who advanced upon the main party while the dialogue between the pedler and
the wagoner was in full gust. They started, as if by common consent, to their feet, as his
horse's tread smote upon their ears; but, satisfied with the appearance of a single man, and
witnessing the jaded condition of his steed, they were content to invite him to partake with
them of the rude cheer which the good-woman was now busied in setting before him.

The hoe-cakes and bacon were smoking finely, and the fatigue of the youth engaged his senses,
with no unwillingness on their part, to detect a most savory attraction in the assault which
they made upon his sight and nostrils alike. He waited not for a second invitation, but in
a few moments--having first stripped his horse, and put the saddle, by direction of the emigrant,
into his wagon--he threw himself beside them upon the ground, and joined readily and heartily
in the consumption of the goodly edibles which were spread out before them.

They had not been long at this game, when a couple of fine watch-dogs which were in the camp,
guarding the baggage, gave the alarm, and the whole party was on the alert, with sharp eye
and cocked rifle. They commenced a survey, and at some distance could hear the tread of horsemen,
seemingly on the approach. The banditti, of which we have already spoken, were well known to
the emigrant, and he had already to complain of divers injuries at their hands. It is not,
therefore, matter of surprise, that he should place his sentinels, and prepare even for the
most audacious attack.

He had scarcely made this disposition of his forces, which exhibited them to the best advantage,
when the strangers made their appearance. They rode cautiously around, without approaching
the defences sufficiently nigh to occasion strife, but evidently having for their object originally
an attack upon the wayfarer. At length, one of the party, which consisted of six persons, now
came forward, and, with a friendly tone of voice, bade them good-evening in a manner which
seemed to indicate a desire to be upon a footing of the most amiable sort with them. The old
man answered dryly, with some show of sarcastic indifference in his speech--

"Ay, good evening enough, if the moon had not gone down, and if the stars were out, that we
might pick out the honest men from the rogues."

"What, are there rogues in these parts, then, old gentleman?" asked the new-comer.

"Why do you ask me?" was the sturdy reply. "You ought to be able to say, without going farther
than your own pockets."

"Why, you are tough to-night, my old buck," was the somewhat crabbed speech of the visiter.

"You'll find me troublesome, too, Mr. Nightwalker: so take good counsel, and be off while you've
whole bones, or I'll tumble you now in half a minute from your crittur, and give you a sharp
supper of pine-knots."

"Well, that wouldn't be altogether kind on your part, old fellow, and I mightn't be willing
to let you; but, as you seem not disposed to be civil, I suppose the best thing I can do is
to be off."

"Ay, ay, be off. You get nothing out of us; and we've no shot that we want to throw away. Leave
you alone, and Jack Ketch will save us shot."

"Ha, ha!" exclaimed the outlier, in concert, and from the deeper emphasis which he gave it,
in chorus to the laughter which followed, among the party, the dry expression of the old man's
humor--

"Ha, ha! old boy--you have the swing of it to-night," continued the visiter, as he rode off
to his companions; "but, if you don't mind, we shall smoke you before you get into Alabam!"

The robber rejoined his companions, and a sort of council for deliberation was determined upon
among them.

"How now, Lambert! you have been at dead fault," was his sudden address, as he returned, to
one of the party. "You assured me that old Snell and his two sons were the whole force that
he carried, while I find two stout, able-bodied men besides, all well armed, and ready for
the attack. The old woman, too, standing with the gridiron in her fists, is equal of herself
to any two men, hand to hand."

Lambert, a short, sly, dogged little personage, endeavored to account for the error, if such
it was--"but he was sure, that at starting, there were but three--they must have have had company
join them since. Did the lieutenant make out the appearance of the others?"

"I did," said the officer in command, "and, to say truth, they do not seem to be of the old
fellow's party. They must have come upon him since the night. But how came you, Lambert, to
neglect sawing the axle? You had time enough when it stood in the farmyard last night, and
you were about it a full hour. The wagon stands as stoutly on its all-fours as the first day
it was built."

"I did that, sir, and did it, I thought, to the very mark. I calculated to leave enough solid
to bear them to the night, when in our circuit we should come among them just in time to finish
the business. The wood is stronger, perhaps, than I took it to be, but it won't hold out longer
than to-morrow, I'm certain, when, if we watch, we can take our way with them."

"Well, I hope so, and we must watch them, for it won't do to let the old fellow escape. He
has, I know, a matter of three or four hundred hard dollars in his possession, to buy lands
in Mississippi, and it's a pity to let so much good money go out of the state."

"But why may we not set upon them now?" inquired one of the youngest of the party.

"For a very good reason, Briggs--they are armed, ready, and nearly equal in number to ourselves;
and though I doubt not we should be able to ride over them, yet I am not willing to leave one
or more of us behind. Besides, if we keep the look-out to-morrow, as we shall, we can settle
the business without any such risk."

This being the determination, the robbers, thus disappointed of their game, were nevertheless
in better humor than might have been well expected; but such men are philosophers, and their
very recklessness of human life is in some respects the result of a due estimate of its vicissitudes.
They rode on their way laughing at the sturdy bluntness of the old wagoner, which their leader,
of whom we have already heard under the name of Dillon, related to them at large. With a whoop
and halloo, they cheered the travellers as they rode by, but at some distance from, the encampment.
The tenants of the encampment, thus strangely but fortunately thrown together, having first
seen that everything was quiet, took their severally assigned places, and laid themselves down
for repose. The pedler contenting himself with guessing that "them 'ere chaps did not make
no great deal by that speculation."

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE OUTLAWS.

It was in the wildest and least-trodden recesses of the rock and forest, that the band of outlaws,
of which Rivers was the great head and leader, had fixed their place of abode and assemblage.
A natural cavity, formed by the juxtaposition of two huge rocks, overhung by a third, with
some few artificial additions, formed for them a cavern, in which--so admirably was it overgrown
by the surrounding forest, and so finely situated among hills and abrupt ridges yielding few
inducements for travel--they found the most perfect security.

It is true such a shelter could not long have availed them as such, were the adjacent country
in the possession of a civilized people; but the near neighborhood of the Cherokees, by keeping
back civilization, was, perhaps, quite as much as the position they had chosen, its protection
from the scrutiny of many, who had already, prompted by their excesses, endeavored, on more
than one occasion, to find them out. The place was distant from the village of Chestatee about
ten miles, or perhaps more. No highway--no thoroughfare or public road passed in its neighborhood,
and it had been the policy of the outlaws to avoid the use of any vehicle, the traces of which
might be followed. There was, besides, but little necessity for its employment. The place of
counsel and assemblage was not necessarily their place of abode, and the several members of
the band found it more profitable to reside, or keep stations, in the adjacent hamlets and
stands (for by this latter name in those regions, the nightly stopping-places of wayfarers
are commonly designated) where, in most cases, they put on the appearance, and in many respects
bore the reputation, of staid and sober working men.

This arrangement was perhaps the very best for the predatory life they led, as it afforded
opportunities for information which otherwise must have been lost to them. In this way they
heard of this or that traveler--his destination--the objects he had in view, and the wealth
he carried about with him. In one of these situations the knowledge of old Snell's journey,
and the amount of wealth in his possession, had been acquired; and in the person of the worthy
stable-boy who brought corn to the old fellow's horses the night before, and whom he rewarded
with a thrip (the smallest silver coin known in the southern currency, the five-cent issue
excepted) we might, without spectacles, recognise the active fugleman of the outlaws, who sawed
half through his axle, cleaned his wheels of all their grease, and then attempted to rob him
the very night after.

Though thus scattered about, it was not a matter of difficulty to call the outlaws together
upon an emergency. One or more of the most trustworthy among them had only to make a tour over
the road, and through the hamlets in which they were harbored within the circuit of ten or
twenty miles, and as they kept usually with rigid punctuality to their several stations, they
were soon apprized, and off at the first signal. A whisper in the ear of the hostler who brought
out your horse, or the drover who put up the cattle, was enough; and the absence of a colt
from pasture, or the missing of a stray young heifer from the flock, furnished a sufficient
reason to the proprietor for the occasional absence of Tom, Dick, or Harry: who, in the meanwhile,
was, most probably, crying "stand" to a true man, or cutting a trunk from a sulkey, or, in
mere wantonness, shooting down the traveller who had perhaps given him a long chase, yet yielded
nothing by way of compensation for the labor.

Dillon, or, to speak more to the card, Lieutenant Dillon, arrived at the place of assemblage
just as the day was breaking. He was a leader of considerable influence among the outlaws,
and, next to Rivers, was most popular. Indeed, in certain respects, he was far more popular;
for, though perhaps not so adroit in his profession, nor so well fitted for its command, he
was possessed of many of those qualities which are apt to be taking with "the fierce democratic!"
He was a prince of hail fellows--was thoroughly versed in low jest and scurvy anecdote--could
play at pushpins, and drink at every point in the game; and, strange to say, though always
drinking, was never drunk. Nor, though thus accomplished, and thus prone to these accomplishments,
did he ever neglect those duties which he assumed to perform. No indulgence led him away from
his post, and, on the other hand, no post compelled or constrained him into gravity. He was
a careless, reckless blade, indifferent alike, it would seem, to sun and storm--and making
of life a circle, that would not inaptly have illustrated the favorite text of Sardanapalus.

He arrived at the cave, as we have said just as the day was breaking. A shrill whistle along
the ridges of wood and rock as he passed them, denoted the various stations of the sentinels,
as studiously strewed along the paths by which their place of refuge might be assailed, as
if they were already beleaguered by an assailing army. Without pausing to listen to the various
speeches and inquiries which assailed his ears upon his arrival he advanced to the cavern,
and was told that the captain had been for some time anxiously awaiting his arrival--that he
had morosely kept the inner recess of the cave, and since his return, which had not been until
late in the night, had been seen but two or three times, and then but for a moment, when he
had come forth to make inquiries for himself.

Leaving his men differently disposed, Dillon at once penetrated into the small apartment in
which his leader was lodged, assured of the propriety of the intrusion, from what had just
been told him.

The recess, which was separated from the outer hall by a curtain of thick coarse stuff, falling
to the floor from a beam, the apertures for the reception of which had been chiselled in the
rock, was dimly illuminated by a single lamp, hanging from a chain, which was in turn fastened
to a pole that stretched directly across the apartment. A small table in the centre of the
room, covered with a piece of cotton cloth, a few chairs, a broken mirror, and on a shelf that
stood trimly in the corner, a few glasses and decanters, completed the furniture of the apartment.

On the table at which the outlaw sat, lay his pistols--a huge and unwieldy, but well-made pair.
A short sword, a dirk and one or two other weapons of similar description, contemplated only
for hand-to-hand purposes, lay along with them; and the better to complete the picture, now
already something outre, a decanter of brandy and tumblers were contiguous.

Rivers did not observe the slide of the curtain to the apartment, nor the entrance of Dillon.
He was deeply absorbed in contemplation; his head rested heavily upon his two palms, while
his eyes were deeply fixed upon the now opened miniature which he had torn from the neck of
Lucy Munro, and which rested before him. He sighed not--he spoke not, but ever and anon, as
if perfectly unconscious all the while of what he did, he drank from the tumbler of the compounded
draught that stood before him, hurriedly and desperately, as if to keep the strong emotion
from choking him. There was in his look a bitter agony of expression, indicating a vexed spirit,
now more strongly than ever at work in a way which had, indeed, been one of the primest sources
of his miserable life. It was a spirit ill at rest with itself--vexed at its own feebleness
of execution--its incapacity to attain and acquire the realization of its own wild and vague
conceptions. His was the ambition of one who discovers at every step that nothing can be known,
yet will not give up the unprofitable pursuit, because, even while making the discovery, he
still hopes vainly that he may yet, in his own person, give the maxim the lie. For ever soaring
to the sun, he was for ever realizing the fine Grecian fable of Icarus; and the sea of disappointment
into which he perpetually fell, with its tumultuous tides and ever-chafing billows, bearing
him on from whirlpool to whirlpool, for ever battling and for ever lost. He was unconscious,
as we have said, of the entrance and approach of his lieutenant, and words of bitterness, in
soliloquy, fell at brief periods from his lips.--

"It is after all the best--" he mused. "Despair is the true philosophy, since it begets indifference.
Why should I hope? What prospect is there now, that these eyes, that lip, these many graces,
and the imperial pride of that expression, which looks out like a high soul from the heaven
that men talk and dream of--what delusion is there now to bid me hope they ever can be more
to me than they are now? I care not for the world's ways--nor feel I now the pang of its scorn
and its outlawry; yet I would it were not so, that I might, upon a field as fair as that of
the most successful, assert my claim, and woo and win her--not with those childish notes of
commonplace--that sickly cant of sentimental stuff which I despise, and which I know she despises
no less than I.

"Yet, when this field was mine, as I now desire it, what more did it avail me? Where was the
strong sense--the lofty reason that should then have conquered with an unobstructed force,
sweeping all before it, as the flame that rushes through the long grass of the prairies? Gone--prostrate--dumb.
The fierce passion was upward, and my heart was then more an outlaw than I myself am now.

"Yet there is one hope--one chance--one path, if not to her affections, at least to her. It
shall be done, and then, most beautiful witch, cold, stern, and to me heartless, as thou hast
ever been--thou shalt not always triumph. I would that I could sleep on this--I would that
I could sleep. There is but one time of happiness--but one time when the thorn has no sting--when
the scorn bites not--when the sneer chafes not--when the pride and the spirit shrink not--when
there is no wild passion to make everything a storm and a conflagration among the senses--and
that is--when one forgets!--I would that I could sleep!"

As he spoke, his head sunk upon the table with a heavy sound, as if unconsciousness had really
come with the articulated wish. He started quickly, however, as now, for the first time, the
presence of Dillon became obvious, and hurriedly thrusting the portrait into his vest, he turned
quickly to the intruder, and sternly demanded the occasion of his interruption. The lieutenant
was prepared, and at once replied to the interrogatory with the easy, blunt air of one who
not only felt that he might be confided in, but who was then in the strict performance of his
duties.

"I came at your own call, captain. I have just returned from the river, and skirting down in
that quarter, and was kept something later than I looked for; hearing, on my arrival, that
you had been inquiring for me, I did not hesitate to present myself at once, not knowing but
the business might be pressing."

"It is pressing," responded the outlaw, seemingly well satisfied with the tacit apology. "It
is pressing, Dillon, and you will have little time for rest before starting again. I myself
have been riding all night, and shall be off in another hour. But what have you to report?
What's in the wind now?"

"I hear but little, sir. There is some talk about a detachment of the Georgia guard, something
like a hundred men, to be sent out expressly for our benefit; but I look upon this as a mistake.
Their eye is rather upon the miners, and the Indian gold lands and those who dig it, and not
upon those who merely take it after it is gathered. I have heard, too, of something like a
brush betwixt Fullam's troop and the miners at Tracy's diggings, but no particulars, except
that the guard got the worst of it."

"On that point I am already advised. That is well for us, since it will turn the eye of the
authorities in a quarter in which we have little to do. I had some hand in that scrape myself,
and set the dogs on with this object; and it is partly on this matter that I would confer with
you, since there are some few of our men in the village who had large part in it, who must
not be hazarded, and must yet stay there."

"If the brush was serious, captain, that will be a matter of some difficulty; for of late,
there has been so much of our business done, that government, I believe, has some thought of
taking it up, and in order to do so without competition, will think of putting us down. Uncle
Sam and the states, too, are quarrelling in the business, and, as I hear, there is like to
be warm work between them. The Georgians are quite hot on the subject, and go where I will,
they talk of nothing else than hanging the president, the Indians, and all the judges. They
are brushing up their rifles, and they speak out plain."

"The more sport for us--but this is all idle. It will all end in talk, and whether it do or
not, we, at least, have nothing to do with it. But, there is drink--fill--and let us look to
business before either of us sleep."

The lieutenant did as suggested by Rivers, who, rising from his seat, continued for some time
to pace the apartment, evidently in deep meditation. He suddenly paused, at length, and resuming
his seat, inquired of Dillon as to the manner in which he had been employed through the last
few days.

A narration, not necessary to repeat, followed from the officer in which the numerous petty
details of frontier irregularity made up the chief material. Plots and counterplots were rife
in his story, and more than once the outlaw interrupted his officer in the hope of abridging
the petty particulars of some of their attenuated proportions--an aim not always successful,
since, among the numerous virtues of Lieutenant Dillon, that of precision and niceness in his
statements must not be omitted. To this narration, however, though called for by himself, the
superior yielded but little attention, until he proceed to describe the adventure of the night,
resulting so unsuccessfully, with the emigrating farmer. When he described the persons of the
two strangers, so unexpectedly lending their aid in defence of the traveller, a new interest
was awakened in the features and mariner of his auditor, who here suddenly and with energy
interrupted him, to make inquiries with regard to their dress and appearance, which not a little
surprised Dillon, who had frequently experienced the aversion of his superior to all seemingly
unnecessary minutiae. Having been satisfied on these points, the outlaw rose, and pacing the
apartment with slow steps, seemed to meditate some design which the narrative had suggested.
Suddenly pausing, at length, as if all the necessary lights had shone in upon his deliberations
at once, he turned to Dillon, who stood in silent waiting, and thus proceeded:--

"I have it," said he, half-musingly, "I have it, Dillon--it must be so. How far, say you, is
it from the place where the man--what's his name--encamped last night?"

"Nine or ten miles, perhaps, or more."

"And you know his route for to-day?"

"There is now but one which he can take, pursuing the route which he does."

"And upon that he will not go more than fifteen or twenty miles in the day. But not so with
him--not so with him. He will scarcely be content to move at that pace, and there will be no
hope in that way to overtake him."

Rivers spoke in soliloquy, and Dillon, though accustomed to many of the mental irregularities
of his superior, exhibited something like surprise as he looked upon the lowering brows and
unwonted indecision of the outlaw.

"Of whom does the captain speak?" was his inquiry.

"Of whom?--of him--of him!" was the rather abrupt response of the superior, who seemed to regard
the ignorance of his lieutenant as to the object in view, with almost as much wonder as that
worthy entertained at the moment for the hallucinations of his captain.

"Of whom should I speak--of whom should I think but the one--accursed, fatal and singular,
who--" and he stopped short, while his mind, now comprehending the true relationship between
himself and the person beside him, which, in his moody self-examination, he had momentarily
forgotten, proceeded to his designs with all his wonted coherence.

"I wander, Dillon, and am half-asleep. The fact is, I am almost worn out with this unslumbering
motion. I have not been five hours out of the saddle in the last twenty-four, and it requires
something more of rest, if I desire to do well what I have on hand--what, indeed, we both have
on hand."

There was something apologetic in the manner, if not in the language, of the speaker; and his
words seemed to indicate, if possible, an excuse for the incoherence of his address, in the
physical fatigue which he had undergone--in this way to divert suspicion from those mental
causes of excitement, of which, in the present situation, he felt somewhat ashamed. Pouring
out a glass of liquor, and quaffing it without pause, he motioned to the lieutenant to do the
same--a suggestion not possible for that person to misunderstand--and then proceeded to narrate
such portions of the late occurrences in and about the village as it was necessary he should
know. He carefully suppressed his own agency in any of these events, for, with the policy of
the ancient, he had learned, at an early period in his life, to treat his friend as if he might
one day become his enemy; and, so far as such a resolution might consistently be maintained,
while engaged in such an occupation as his, he rigidly observed it.

"The business, Dillon, which I want you to execute, and to which you will give all your attention,
is difficult and troublesome, and requires ingenuity. Mark Forrester was killed last night,
as is supposed, in a fray with a youth named Colleton, like himself a Carolinian. If such is
not the opinion yet, I am determined such shall be the opinion; and have made arrangements
by which the object will be attained. Of course the murderer should be taken, and I have reasons
to desire that this object too should be attained. It is on this business, then, that you are
to go. You must be the officer to take him."

"But where is he? if within reach, you know there is no difficulty."

"Hear me; there is difficulty though he is within reach. He is one of the men whom you found
with the old farmer you would otherwise have attacked last night. There is difficulty, for
he will fight like a wild beast, and stick to his ground like a rattlesnake; and, supported
by the old fellow whom you found him with, he will be able to resist almost any force which
you could muster on the emergency. The only fear I have is, that being well-mounted, he will
not keep with the company, but as they must needs travel slowly, he will go on and leave them."

"Should it not rather be a source of satisfaction than otherwise--will it not put him more
completely at our disposal?"

"No; for having so much the start of you, and a good animal, he will soon leave all pursuit
behind him. There is a plan which I have been thinking of, and which will be the very thing,
if at once acted upon. You know the sheriff, Maxson, lives on the same road; you must take
two of the men with you, pick fresh and good horses, set off to Maxson's at once with a letter
which I shall give you, and he will make you special deputies for the occasion of this young
man's arrest. I have arranged it so that the suspicion shall take the shape of a legal warrant,
sufficient to authorize his arrest and detention. The proof of his offence will be matter of
after consideration."

"But will Maxson do this--may he not refuse? You know he has been once before threatened with
being brought up for his leaning toward us, in that affair of the Indian chief, Enakamon."

"He can not--he dare not refuse!" said the outlaw, rising impatiently. "He holds his place
and his life at my disposal, and he knows it. He will not venture to refuse me!"

"He has been very scrupulous of late in all his dealings with us, you know, and has rather
kept out of our way. Besides that, he has been thorough-going at several camp-meetings lately,
and, when a man begins to appear over-honest, I think it high time he should be looked after
by all parties."

"You are right, Dillon, you are right. I should not trust it to paper either. I will go myself.
But you shall along with me, and on the way I will put you in a train for bringing out certain
prisoners whom it is necessary that we should secure before the sitting of the court, and until
it is over. They might be foolish enough to convict themselves of being more honest than their
neighbors, and it is but humane to keep them from the commission of an impropriety. Give orders
for the best two of your troop, and have horses saddled for all four of us. We must be on the
road."

Dillon did as directed, and returned to the conference, which was conducted, on the part of
his superior, with a degree of excitation, mingled with a sharp asperity of manner, something
unwonted for him in the arranging of any mere matter of business.

"Maxson will not refuse us; if he do, I will hang him by my saddle-straps. The scoundrel owes
his election to our votes, and shall he refuse us what we ask? He knows his fate too well to
hesitate. And then, Dillon, when you have his commission for the arrest of this boy, spare
not the spur: secure him at all hazards of horseflesh or personal inconvenience. He will not
resist the laws, or anything having their semblance; nor, indeed, has he any reason--"

"No reason, sir! why, did you not say he had killed Forrester?" inquired his companion.

"Your memory is sharp, master lieutenant; I did say, and I say so still. But he affects to
think not, and I should not be at all surprised if he not only deny it to you, but in reality
disbelieve it himself. Have you not heard of men who have learned in time to believe the lies
of their own invention? Why not men doubt the truth of their own doings? There are such men,
and he may he one of them. He may deny stoutly and solemnly the charge, but let him not deceive
you or baffle your pursuit. We shall prove it upon him, and he shall hang, Dillon--ay, hang,
hang, hang--though it be under her very eyes!"

It was in this way that, in the progress of the dialogue which took place between the chief
and his subordinate, the rambling malignity would break through the cooler counsels of the
villain, and dark glimpses of the mystery of the transaction would burst upon the senses of
the latter. Rivers had the faculty, however, of never exhibiting too much of himself; and when
hurried on by a passion seemingly too fierce and furious for restraint, he would suddenly curb
himself in, while a sharp and scornful smile would curl his lips, as if he felt a consciousness,
not only of his own powers of command, but of his impenetrability to all analysis.

The horses being now ready, the outlaw, buckling on his pistols, and hiding his dirk in his
bosom, threw a huge cloak over his shoulders, which fully concealed his person; and, in company
with his lieutenant, and two stout men of his band, all admirably and freshly mounted, they
proceeded to the abode of the sheriff.

This man, connected, though secretly, with Rivers and Munro, was indebted to them and the votes
which in that region they could throw into the boxes, for his elevation to the office which
he held, and was, as might reasonably have been expected, a mere creature under their management.
Maxson, of late days, however, whether from a reasonable apprehension, increasing duly with
increasing years, that he might become at last so involved in the meshes of those crimes of
his colleagues, from which, while he was compelled to share the risk, he was denied in great
part the profit, had grown scrupulous--had avoided as much as possible their connexion; and,
the better to strengthen himself in the increasing favor of public opinion, had taken advantage
of all those externals of morality and virtue which, unhappily, too frequently conceal qualities
at deadly hostility with them. He had, in the popular phrase of the country, "got religion;"
and, like the worthy reformers of the Cromwell era, everything which he did, and everything
which he said, had Scripture for its authority. Psalm-singing commenced and ended the day in
his house, and graces before meat and graces before sleep, prayers and ablutions, thanksgivings
and fastings, had so much thinned the animal necessities of his household, that a domestic
war was the consequence, and the sheriff and the sheriff's lady held separate sway, having
equally divided the dwelling between them, and ruling each their respective sovereignties with
a most jealous watchfulness. All rights, not expressly delegated in the distribution of powers
originally, were insisted on even to blood; and the arbitration of the sword, or rather the
poker, once appealed to, most emphatically, by the sovereign of the gentler sex, had cut off
the euphonious utterance of one of the choicest paraphrases of Sternhold and Hopkins in the
middle; and by bruising the scull of the reformed and reforming sheriff, had nearly rendered
a new election necessary to the repose and well-being of the county in which they lived.

But the worthy convert recovered, to the sore discomfiture of his spouse, and to the comfort
and rejoicing of all true believers. The breach in his head was healed, but that which separated
his family remained the same--

   "As rocks that had been rent asunder."

They knew the fellowship of man and wife only in so much as was absolutely essential to the
keeping up of appearances to the public eye--a matter necessary to maintaining her lord in
the possession of his dignity; which, as it conferred honor and profit, through him, upon her
also, it was of necessity a part of her policy to continue.

There had been a brush--a small gust had passed over that fair region of domestic harmony--on
the very morning upon which the outlaw and his party rode up the untrimmed and half-overgrown
avenue, which led to the house of the writ-server. There had been an amiable discussion between
the two, as to which of them, with propriety, belonged the duty of putting on the breeches
of their son Tommy, preparatory to his making his appearance at the breakfast-table. Some extraneous
influence had that morning prompted the sheriff to resist the performance of a task which had
now for some time been imposed upon him, and for which, therefore, there was the sanction of
prescription and usage. It was an unlucky moment for the assertion of his manhood: for, a series
of circumstances operating just about that time unfavorably upon the mind of his wife, she
was in the worst possible humor upon which to try experiments.

She heard the refusal of her liege to do the required duty, therefore, with an astonishment,
not unmingled with a degree of pleasure, as it gave a full excuse for the venting forth upon
him of those splenetic humors, which, for some time, had been growing and gathering in her
system. The little sheriff, from long attendance on courts and camps, had acquired something
more, perhaps, of the desire and disposition, than the capacity, to make long speeches and
longer sermons, in the performance of both of which labors, however, he was admirably fortified
by the technicals of the law, and the Bible phraseology. The quarrel had been waged for some
time, and poor Tommy, the bone of contention, sitting all the while between the contending
parties in a state of utter nudity, kept up a fine running accompaniment to the full tones
of the wranglers, by crying bitterly for his breeches.

For the first time for a long period of years, the lady found her powers of tongue fail in
the proposed effect upon the understanding of her loving and legal lord; and knowing but of
one other way to assail it, her hand at length grappling with the stool, from which she tumbled
the breechless babe without scruple, seized upon an argument to which her adversary could oppose
neither text nor technical; when, fortunately for him, the loud rapping of their early visiters
at the outer door of the dwelling interposed between her wrath and its object, and spared the
life of the devout sheriff for other occurrences. Bundling the naked child out of sight, the
mother rushed into an inner apartment, shaking the stool in the pale countenance of her lord
as she retreated, in a manner and with a look which said, as plainly as words could say, that
this temporary delay would only sharpen her appetite for vengeance, and exaggerate its terrors
when the hour did arrive. It was with a hesitating step and wobegone countenance, therefore,
that the officer proceeded to his parlor, where a no less troublesome, but less awkward trial
awaited him.

CHAPTER XXIX.

ARREST.

The high-sheriff made his appearance before his early and well-known visiters with a desperate
air of composure and unconcern, the effort to attain which was readily perceptible to his companions.
He could not, in the first place, well get rid of those terrors of the domestic world from
which their interruption had timely shielded him; nor, on the other hand, could he feel altogether
assured that the visit now paid him would not result in the exaction of some usurious interest.
He had recently, as we have said, as much through motives of worldly as spiritual policy, become
an active religionist, in a small way, in and about the section of country in which he resided;
and knowing that his professions were in some sort regarded with no small degree of doubt and
suspicion by some of his brethren holding the same faith, he felt the necessity of playing
a close and cautious game in all his practices. He might well be apprehensive, therefore, of
the visits of those who never came but as so many omens of evil, and whose claims upon, and
perfect knowledge of, his true character, were such, that he felt himself, in many respects,
most completely at their mercy.

Rivers did not give much time to preliminaries, but, after a few phrases of commonplace, coming
directly to the point, he stated the business in hand, and demanded the assistance of the officer
of justice for the arrest of one of its fugitives. There were some difficulties of form in
the matter, which saved the sheriff in part, and which the outlaw had in great part over looked.
A warrant of arrest was necessary from some officer properly empowered to issue one, and a
new difficulty was thus presented in the way of Colleton's pursuit. The sheriff had not the
slightest objections to making deputies of the persons recommended by the outlaw, provided
they were fully empowered to execute the commands of some judicial officer; beyond this, the
scrupulous executioner of justice was unwilling to go; and having stood out so long in the
previous controversy with his spouse, it was wonderful what a vast stock of audacious courage
he now felt himself entitled, and ventured, to manifest.

"I can not do it, Master Guy--it's impossible--seeing, in the first place, that I ha'n't any
right by the laws to issue any warrant, though it's true, I has to serve them. Then, agin,
in the next place, 'twont do for another reason that's jist as good, you see. It's only the
other day, Master Guy, that the fear of the Lord come upon me, and I got religion; and now
I've set myself up as a worker in other courts, you see, than those of man; and there be eyes
around me that would see, and hearts to rejoice at the backslidings of the poor laborer. Howbeit,
Master Guy, I am not the man to forget old sarvice; and if it be true that this man has been
put to death in this manner, though I myself can do nothing at this time, I may put you in
the way--for the sake of old time, and for the sake of justice, which requires that the slayer
of his brother should also be slain--of having your wish."

Though something irritated still at the reluctance of his former creature to lend himself without
scruple to his purposes, the outlaw did not hesitate to accept the overture, and to press for
its immediate accomplishment. He had expostulated with the sheriff for some time on the point,
and, baffled and denied, he was very glad, at the conclusion of the dialogue with that worthy,
to find that there was even so much of a prospect of concert, though falling far short of his
original anticipations, from that quarter. He was too well aware, also, of the difficulty in
the way of any proceeding without something savoring of authority in the matter; for, from
a previous and rather correct estimate of Colleton's character, he well foresaw that, knowing
his enemy, he would fight to the last against an arrest; which, under the forms of law and
with the sanction of a known officer, he would otherwise readily recognise and submit to. Seizing,
therefore, upon the speech of the sheriff, Rivers eagerly availed himself of its opening to
obtain those advantages in the affair, of which, from the canting spirit and newly-awakened
morality of his late coadjutor, he had utterly begun to despair. He proceeded to reply to the
suggestion as follows:--

"I suppose, I must content myself, Maxson, with doing in this thing as you say, though really
I see not why you should now be so particular, for there are not ten men in the county who
are able to determine upon any of your powers, or who would venture to measure their extent.
Let us hear your plan, and I suppose it will be effectual in our object, and this is all I
want. All I desire is, that our people, you know, should not be murdered by strangers without
rhyme or reason."

The sheriff knew well the hypocrisy of the sentiment with which Rivers concluded, but made
no remark. A single smile testified his knowledge of the nature of his colleague, and indicated
his suspicion of a deeper and different motive for this new activity. Approaching the outlaw
closely, he asked, in a half whisper:--

"Who was the witness of the murder--who could swear for the magistrate? You must get somebody
to do that."

This was another point which Rivers, in his impatience, had not thought to consider. But fruitful
in expedient, his fertile mind suggested that ground of suspicion was all that the law required
for apprehension at least, and having already arranged that the body of the murdered man should
be found under certain circumstances, he contented himself with procuring commissions, as deputies,
for his two officers, and posted away to the village.

Here, as he anticipated, the intelligence had already been received--the body of Forrester
had been found, and sufficient ground for suspicion to authorize a warrant was recognised in
the dirk of the youth, which, smeared with blood as it had been left by Rivers, had been found
upon the body. Rivers had but little to do. He contrived, however, to do nothing himself. The
warrant of Pippin, as magistrate, was procured, and the two officers commissioned by the sheriff
went off in pursuit of the supposed murderer, against whom the indignation of all the village
was sufficiently heightened by the recollection of the close intimacy existing between Ralph
and Forrester, and the nobly characteristic manner in which the latter had volunteered to do
his fighting with Rivers. The murdered man had, independent of this, no small popularity of
his own, which brought out for him a warm and active sympathy highly creditable to his memory.
Old Allen, too, suffered deeply, not less on his own than his daughter's account. She, poor
girl, had few words, and her sorrow, silent, if not tearless, was confined to the solitude
of her own chamber.

In the prosecution of the affair against Ralph, there was but one person whose testimony could
have availed him, and that person was Lucy Munro. As the chief particular in evidence, and
that which established the strong leading presumption against him, consisted in the discovery
of his dagger alongside the body of the murdered man, and covered with his blood; it was evident
that she who could prove the loss of the dagger by the youth, and its finding by Munro, prior
to the event, and unaccompanied by any tokens of crime, would not only be able to free the
person suspected, at least from this point of suspicion, but would be enabled to place its
burden elsewhere, and with the most conclusive distinctness.

This was a dilemma which Rivers and Munro did not fail to consider. The private deliberation,
for an hour, of the two conspirators, determined upon the course which for mutual safety they
were required to pursue; and Munro gave his niece due notice to prepare for an immediate departure
with her aunt and himself, on some plausible pretence, to another portion of the country.

To such a suggestion, as Lucy knew not the object, she offered no objection; and a secret departure
was effected of the three, who, after a lonely ride of several hours through a route circuitously
chosen to mislead, were safely brought to the sheltered and rocky abiding-place of the robbers,
as we have already described it. Marks of its offensive features, however, had been so modified
as not to occasion much alarm. The weapons of war had been studiously put out of sight, and
apartments, distinct from those we have seen, partly the work of nature, and partly of man,
were assigned for the accommodation of the new-comers. The outlaws had their instructions,
and did not appear, though lurking and watching around in close and constant neighborhood.

Nor, in this particular alone, had the guilty parties made due provision for their future safety.
The affair of the guard had made more stir than had been anticipated in the rash moment which
had seen its consummation; and their advices warned them of the approach of a much larger force
of state troops, obedient to the direction of the district-attorney, than they could well contend
with. They determined, therefore, prudently for themselves, to keep as much out of the way
of detection as they could; and to avoid those risks upon which a previous conference had partially
persuaded them to adventure. They were also apprized of the greater excitement attending the
fate of Forrester, than could possibly have followed the death, in his place, of the contemplated
victim; and, adopting a habit of caution, heretofore but little considered in that region,
they prepared for all hazards, and, at the same time, tacitly determined upon the suspension
of their numerous atrocities--at least, while a controlling force was in the neighborhood.
Previous impunity had led them so far, that at length the neighboring country was aroused,
and all the better classes, taking advantage of the excitement, grew bolder in the expression
of their anger against those who had beset them so long. The sheriff, Maxson, had been something
tutored by these influences, or, it had been fair to surmise that his scruples would have been
less difficult to overcome.

In the meantime, the pursuit of Ralph Colleton, as the murderer of Forrester, had been hotly
urged by the officers. The pursuers knew the route, and having the control of new horses as
they proceeded, at frequent intervals, gained of course at every step upon the unconscious
travellers. We have seen the latter retiring to repose at a late hour of the night. Under the
several fatigues which all parties had undergone, it is not strange that the sun should have
arisen some little time before those who had not retired quite so early as himself. At a moderately
late hour they breakfasted together--the family of the wagoner, and Ralph, and our old friend
the pedler. Pursuing the same route, the two latter, after the repast, separated, with many
acknowledgments on both sides, from the emigrating party, and pursued their way together.

On their road, Bunce gave the youth a long and particular account of all those circumstances
at the village-inn by which he had been deprived of his chattels, and congratulated himself
not a little on the adroit thought which had determined him to retain the good steed of the
Lawyer Pippin in lieu of his losses. He spoke of it as quite a clever and creditable performance,
and one as fully deserving the golden honors of the medal as many of those doings which are
so rewarded.

On this point his companion said little; and though he could not altogether comprehend the
propriety of the pedler's morals, he certainly did not see but that the necessity and pressing
danger of his situation somewhat sanctioned the deceit. He suggested this idea to Bunce, but
when he came to talk of the propriety of returning the animal the moment he was fairly in safety,
the speculator failed entirely to perceive the moral of his philosophy.

The sheriff's officers came upon the wagoner a few hours after the two had separated from him.
The intelligence received from him quickened their pace, and toward noon they descried our
travellers ascending a hill a few hundred yards in advance of them. A repeated application
of the spur brought them together, and, as had been anticipated by Rivers, Ralph offered not
the slightest objection, when once satisfied of the legality of his arrest, to becoming their
prisoner. But the consternation of Bunce was inexpressible. He endeavored to shelter himself
in the adjoining woods, and was quietly edging his steed into the covert for that purpose,
on the first alarm, but was not permitted by the sharp eyes and ready unscrupulosity of the
robber representatives of the law. They had no warrant, it is true, for the arrest of any other
person than "the said Ralph Colleton"--but the unlucky color of Pippin's horse, and their perfect
knowledge of the animal, readily identifying him, did the business for the pedler.

Under the custody of the laws, therefore, we behold the youth retracing his ground, horror-stricken
at the death of Forrester--indignant at the suspicions entertained of himself as the murderer,
but sanguine of the result, and firm and fearless as ever. Not so Bunce: there were cruel visions
in his sight of seven-sided pine-rails--fierce regulators--Lynch's law, and all that rude and
terrible sort of punishment, which is studiously put in force in those regions for the enjoyment
of evil-doers. The next day found them both securely locked up in the common jail of Chestatee.

CHAPTER XXX.

CHUB WILLIAMS.

The young mind of Colleton, excursive as it was, could scarcely realize to itself the strange
and rapidly-succeeding changes of the last few days. Self-exiled from the dwelling in which
so much of his heart and hope had been stored up--a wanderer among the wandering--assaulted
by ruffians--the witness of their crimes--pursued by the officers of justice, and finally the
tenant of a prison, as a criminal himself! After the first emotions of astonishment and vexation
had subsided--ignorant of the result of this last adventure, and preparing for the worst--he
called for pen and paper, and briefly, to his uncle, recounted his adventures, as we have already
related them, partially acknowledging his precipitance in departing from his house, but substantially
insisting upon the propriety of those grounds which had made him do so.

To Edith, what could he say? Nothing--everything. His letter to her, enclosed in that to her
uncle, was just such as might be expected from one with a character such as we have endeavored
to describe--that of the genuine aristocrat of Carolina--gentle, but firm--soothing, but manly--truly,
but loftily affectionate--the rock touched, if not softened by the sunbeam; warm and impetuous,
but generally just in his emotions--liberal in his usual estimate of mankind, and generous,
to a fault, in all his associations;--ignorant of any value in money, unless for high purposes--as
subservient to taste and civilization--a graceful humanity and an honorable affection.

With a tenderness the most respectful, Ralph reiterated his love--prayed for her prayers--frankly
admitted his error in his abrupt flight, and freely promised atonement as soon as he should
be freed from his difficulties; an event which, in speaking to her, he doubted not. This duty
over, his mind grew somewhat relieved, and, despatching a note by the jailer's deputy to the
lawyer Pippin, he desired immediately to see him.

Pippin had looked for such an invitation, and was already in attendance. His regrets were prodigious,
but his gratification not less, as it would give him an opportunity, for some time desired,
for serving so excellent a gentleman. But the lawyer shook his head with most professional
uncertainty at every step of his own narration of the case, and soon convinced Ralph that he
really stood in a very awkward predicament. He described the situation of the body of Forrester
when found; the bloody dirk which lay beside it, having the initials of his name plainly carved
upon it; his midnight flight; his close companionship with Forrester on the evening of the
night in which he had been murdered--a fact proved by old Allen and his family; the intimate
freedom with which Forrester had been known to confide his purposes to the youth, deducible
from the joint call which they had made upon the sweetheart of the former; and many other smaller
details, unimportant in themselves, but linked together with the rest of the particulars, strengthening
the chain of circumstances against him to a degree which rendered it improbable that he should
escape conviction.

Pippin sought, however, to console his client, and, after the first development of particulars,
the natural buoyancy of the youth returned. He was not disposed readily to despair, and his
courage and confidence rose with the pressure of events. He entered into a plain story of all
the particulars of his flight--the instrumentality of Miss Munro in that transaction, and which
she could explain, in such a manner as to do away with any unfavorable impression which that
circumstance, of itself, might create. Touching the dagger, he could say nothing. He had discovered
its loss, but knew not at what time he had lost it. The manner in which it had been found was,
of course, fatal, unless the fact which he alleged of its loss could be established; and of
this the consulting parties saw no hope. Still, they did not despair, but proceeded to the
task of preparing the defence for the day of trial, which was at hand. The technical portions
of the case were managed by the lawyer, who issued his subpoenas--made voluminous notes--wrote
out the exordium of his speech--and sat up all night committing it to memory.

Having done all that the occasion called for in his interview with Ralph, the lawyer proceeded
to visit, uncalled-for, one whom he considered a far greater criminal than his client. The
cell to which the luckless pedler, Bunce, had been carried, was not far from that of the former,
and the rapid step of the lawyer soon overcame the distance between.

Never was man seemingly so glad to see his neighbor as was Bunce, on this occasion, to look
upon Pippin. His joy found words of the most honeyed description for his visiter, and his delight
was truly infectious. The lawyer was delighted too, but his satisfaction was of a far different
origin. He had now some prospect of getting back his favorite steed--that fine animal, described
by him elsewhere to the pedler, as docile as the dog, and fleet as the deer. He had heard of
the safety of his horse, and his anger with the pedler had undergone some abatement; but, with
the consciousness of power common to inferior minds, came a strong desire for its use. He knew
that the pedler had been guilty in a legal sense of no crime, and could only be liable in a
civil action for his breach of trust. But he suspected that the dealer in wares was ignorant
of the advantageous distinctions in morals which the law had made, and consequently amused
himself with playing upon the fears of the offender. He put on a countenance of much commiseration,
and, drawing a long sigh, regretted the necessity which had brought him to prepare the mind
of his old friend for the last terrors of justice.

But Bunce was not a man easily frightened. As he phrased it himself, he had been quite too
long knocking about among men to be scared by shadows, and replied stoutly--though really with
some internal misgivings--to the lachrymalities of the learned counsel. He gave him to understand
that, if he got into difficulty, he knew some other persons whom his confessions would make
uncomfortable; and hinted pretty directly at certain practices of a certain professional gentleman,
which, though the pedler knew nothing of the technical significant might yet come under the
head of barratry, and so forth.

The lawyer was the more timid man of the two, and found it necessary to pare down his potency.
He soon found it profitable to let the matter rest, and having made arrangements with the pedler
for bringing suit for damages against two of the neighboring farmers concerned in the demolition
of his wares--who, happening to be less guilty than their accessaries, had ventured to remain
in the country--Bunce found no difficulty in making his way out of the prison. There had been
no right originally to detain him; but the consciousness of guilt, and some other ugly misgivings,
had so relaxed the nerves of the tradesman, that he had never thought to inquire if his name
were included in the warrant of arrest. It is probable that his courage and confidence would
have been far less than they appear at present, had not Pippin assured him that the regulators
were no longer to be feared; that the judge had arrived; that the grand-jury had found bills
against several of the offenders, and were still engaged in their labors; that a detachment
of the state military had been ordered to the station; and that things looked as civil as it
was altogether possible for such warlike exhibition to allow. It is surprising to think how
fearlessly uncompromising was the conduct of Bunce under this new condition of affairs.

But the pedler, in his own release from custody, was not forgetful of his less-fortunate companion.
He was a frequent visiter in the dungeon of Ralph Colleton; bore all messages between the prisoner
and his counsel; and contributed, by his shrewd knowledge of human kind, not a little to the
material out of which his defence was to be made.

He suggested the suspicion, never before entertained by the youth, or entertained for a moment
only, that his present arrest was the result of a scheme purposely laid with a reference to
this end; and did not scruple to charge upon Rivers the entire management of the matter.

Ralph could only narrate what he knew of the malignant hatred of the outlaw to himself--another
fact which none but Lucy Munro could establish. Her evidence, however, would only prove Rivers
to have meditated one crime; it would not free him from the imputation of having committed
another. Still, so much was important, and casualties were to be relied upon for the rest.

But what was the horror of all parties when it was known that neither Lucy nor any of the landlord's
family were to be found! The process of subpoena was returned, and the general opinion was,
that alarmed at the approach of the military in such force, and confident that his agency in
the late transactions could not long remain concealed in the possession of so many, though
guilty like himself, Munro had fled to the west.

The mental agony of the youth, when thus informed, can not well he conceived. He was, for a
time, utterly prostrate, and gave himself up to despair. The entreaties of the pedler, and
the counsels and exhortings of the lawyer, failed equally to enliven him; and they had almost
come to adopt his gloomy resignation, when, as he sat on his low bench, with head drooping
on his hand, a solitary glance of sunshine fell through the barred window--the only one assigned
to his cell.

The smile of God himself that solitary ray appeared to the diseased spirit of the youth, and
he grew strong in an instant. Talk of the lessons of the learned, and the reasonings of the
sage!--a vagrant breeze, a rippling water, a glance of the sweet sunlight, have more of consolation
in them for the sad heart than all the pleadings of philosophy. They bring the missives of
a higher teacher.

Bunce was an active coadjutor with the lawyer in this melancholy case. He made all inquiries--he
went everywhere. He searched in all places, and spared no labor; but at length despaired. Nothing
could be elicited by his inquiries, and he ceased to hope himself, and ceased to persuade Ralph
into hope. The lawyer shook his head in reply to all questions, and put on a look of mystery
which is the safety-valve to all swollen pretenders.

In this state of affairs, taking the horse of the youth, with a last effort at discoveries,
Bunce rode forth into the surrounding country. He had heretofore taken all the common routes,
to which, in his previous intercourse with the people, he had been accustomed; he now determined
to strike into a path scarcely perceptible, and one which he never remembered to have seen
before. He followed, mile after mile, its sinuosities. It was a wild, and, seemingly, an untrodden
region. The hills shot up jaggedly from the plain around him--the fissures were rude and steep--more
like embrasures, blown out by sudden power from the solid rock. Where the forest appeared,
it was dense and intricate--abounding in brush and underwood; where it was deficient, the blasted
heath chosen by the witches in Macbeth would have been no unfit similitude.

Hopeless of human presence in this dreary region, the pedler yet rode on, as if to dissipate
the unpleasant thoughts, following upon his frequent disappointment. Suddenly, however, a turn
in the winding path brought him in contact with a strange-looking figure, not more than five
feet in height, neither boy nor man, uncouthly habited, and seemingly one to whom all converse
but that of the trees and rocks, during his whole life, had been unfamiliar.

The reader has already heard something of the Cherokee pony--it was upon one of these animals
he rode. They are a small, but compactly made and hardy creature--of great fortitude, stubborn
endurance, and an activity, which, in the travel of day after day, will seldom subside from
the gallop. It was the increasing demand for these animals that had originally brought into
existence and exercise a company, which, by a transition far from uncommon, passed readily
from the plundering of horses to the cutting of throats and purses; scarcely discriminating
in their reckless rapacity between the several degrees of crime in which such a practice involved
them.

Though somewhat uncouth in appearance, the new-comer seemed decidedly harmless--nay, almost
idiotic in appearance. His smile was pleasant, though illuminating features of the ruggedest
description, and the tones of his voice were even musical in the ears of the pedler, to whom
any voice would probably have seemed so in that gloomy region. He very sociably addressed Bunce
in the patois of that section; and the ceremonial of introduction, without delay or difficulty,
was overcome duly on both sides. In the southern wilderness, indeed, it does not call for much
formality, nor does a strict adherence to the received rules of etiquette become at all necessary,
to make the traveller "hail fellow, well met." Anything in that quarter, savoring of reserve
or stiffness, is punished with decided hostility or openly-avowed contempt; and, in the more
rude regions, the refusal to partake in the very social employments of wrestling or whiskey-drinking,
has brought the scrupulous personage to the more questionable enjoyments of a regular gouging
match and fight. A demure habit is the most unpopular among all classes. Freedom of manner,
on the other hand, obtains confidence readily, and the heart is won, at once, by an off-handed
familiarity of demeanor, which fails to recognise any inequalities in human condition. The
society and the continued presence of Nature, as it were, in her own peculiar abode, put aside
all merely conventional distinctions, and men meet upon a common footing. Thus, even when perfect
strangers to one another, after the usual preliminaries of "how are you, friend," or "strannger?"--"whar
from?"--"whar going?"--"fair" or "foul weather"--as the case may be--the acquaintance is established,
and familiarity well begun. Such was the case in the present instance. Bunce knew the people
well, and exhibited his most unreluctant manner. The horses of the two, in like manner with
their masters, made similar overtures; and in a little while, their necks were drawn in parallel
lines together.

Bunce was less communicative, however, than the stranger. Still his head and heart, alike,
were full, and he talked more freely than was altogether consistent with his Yankee character.
He told of Ralph's predicament, and the clown sympathized; he narrated the quest which had
brought him forth, and of his heretofore unrewarded labors; concluded with naming the ensuing
Monday as the day of the youth's trial, when, if nothing in the meantime could be discovered
of the true criminal--for the pedler never for a moment doubted that Ralph was innocent--he
"mortally feared things would go agin him."

"That will be hard, too--a mighty tough difficulty, now, strannger--to be hanged for other
folks' doings. But, I reckon, he'll have to make up his mind to it."

"Oh, no! don't say so, now, my friend, I beg you. What makes you think so?" said the anxious
pedler.

"Why, only from what I heer'd you say. You said so yourself, and I believed it as if I had
seed it," was the reply of the simple countryman.

"Oh, yes. It's but a poor chance with him now, I guess. I'd a notion that I could find out
some little particular, you see--"

"No, I don't see."

"To be sure you don't, but that's my say. Everybody has a say, you know."

"No, I don't know."

"To be sure, of course you don't know, but that's what I tell you. Now you must know--"

"Don't say must to me, strannger, if you want that we shall keep hands off. I don't let any
man say must to me."

"No harm, my friend--I didn't mean no harm," said the worried pedler, not knowing what to make
of his acquaintance, who spoke shrewdly at times, but occasionally in a speech, which awakened
the doubts of the pedler as to the safety of his wits. Avoiding all circumlocution of phrase,
and dropping the "you sees," and "you knows" from his narration, he proceeded to state his
agency in procuring testimony for the youth, and of the ill-success which had hitherto attended
him. At length, in the course of his story, which he contrived to tell with as much caution
as came within the scope of his education, he happened to speak of Lucy Munro; but had scarcely
mentioned her name when his queer companion interrupted him:--

"Look you, strannger, I'll lick you now, off-hand, if you don't put Miss for a handle to the
gal's name. She's Miss Lucy. Don't I know her, and han't I seen her, and isn't it I, Chub Williams,
as they calls me, that loves the very airth she treads?"

"You know Miss Lucy?" inquired the pedler, enraptured even at this moderate discovery, though
carefully coupling the prefix to her name while giving it utterance--"now, do you know Miss
Lucy, friend, and will you tell me where I can find her?"

"Do you think I will, and you may be looking arter her too? 'Drot my old hat, strannger, but
I do itch to git at you."

"Oh, now, Mr. Williams--"

"I won't answer to that name. Call me Chub Williams, if you wants to be perlite. Mother always
calls me Chub, and that's the reason I like it."

"Well, Chub,"--said the other, quite paternally--"I assure you I don't love Miss Munro--and--"

"What! you don't love Miss Lucy. Why, everybody ought to love her. Now, if you don't love her,
I'll hammer you, strannger, off hand."

The poor pedler professed a proper sort of love for the young lady--not exactly such as would
seek her for a wife, however, and succeeded in satisfying, after a while, the scruples of one
who, in addition to deformity, he also discovered to labor under the more serious curse of
partial idiocy. Having done this, and flattered, in sundry other ways, the peculiarities of
his companion, he pursued his other point with laudable pertinacity.

He at length got from Chub his own history: how he had run into the woods with his mother,
who had suffered from the ill-treatment of her husband: how, with his own industry, he had
sustained her wants, and supplied her with all the comforts which a long period had required;
and how, dying at length, she had left him--the forest boy--alone, to pursue those toils which
heretofore had an object, while she yielded him in return for them society and sympathy. These
particulars, got from him in a manner the most desultory, were made to preface the more important
parts of the narrative.

It appears that his harmlessness had kept him undisturbed, even by the wild marauders of that
region, and that he still continued to procure a narrow livelihood by his woodland labors,
and sought no association with that humanity which, though among fellow-creatures, would still
have lacked of fellowship for him. In the transfer of Lucy from the village to the shelter
of the outlaws, he had obtained a glimpse of her person and form, and had ever since been prying
in the neighborhood for a second and similar enjoyment. He now made known to the pedler her
place of concealment, which he had, some time before this event, himself discovered; but which,
through dread of Rivers, for whom he seemed to entertain an habitual fear, he had never ventured
to penetrate.

"Well, I must see her," exclaimed Bunce. "I a'n't afraid, 'cause you see, Mr. Williams--Chub,
I mean, it's only justice, and to save the poor young gentleman's life. I'm sure I oughtn't
to be afraid, and no more I a'n't. Won't you go there with me, Chub?"

"Can't think of it, strannger. Guy is a dark man, and mother said I must keep away when he
rode in the woods. Guy don't talk--he shoots."

The pedler made sundry efforts to procure a companion for his adventure; but finding it vain,
and determined to do right, he grew more resolute with the necessity, and, contenting himself
with claiming the guidance of Chub, he went boldly on the path. Having reached a certain point
in the woods, after a very circuitous departure from the main track, the guide pointed out
to the pedler a long and rude ledge of rocks, so rude, so wild, that none could have ever conjectured
to find them the abode of anything but the serpent and the wolf. But there, according to the
idiot, was Lucy Munro concealed. Chub gave the pedler his directions, then alighting from his
nag, which he concealed in a clump of neighboring brush, hastily and with the agility of a
monkey ran up a neighboring tree which overhung the prospect.

Bunce, left alone, grew somewhat staggered with his fears. He now half-repented of the self-imposed
adventure; wondered at his own rash humanity, and might perhaps have utterly forborne the trial,
but for a single consideration. His pride was concerned, that the deformed Chub should not
have occasion to laugh at his weakness. Descending, therefore, from his horse, he fastened
him to the hanging branch of a neighboring tree, and with something of desperate defiance in
his manner, resolutely advanced to the silent and forbidding mass of rocks, which rose up so
sullenly around him. In another moment, and he was lost to sight in the gloomy shadow of the
entrance-passage pointed out to him by the half-witted, but not altogether ignorant dwarf.

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE ROCK CASTLE OF THE ROBBERS.

But the preparations of Bunce had been foreseen and provided for by those most deeply interested
in his progress; and scarcely had the worthy tradesman effected his entrance fairly into the
forbidden territory, when he felt himself grappled from behind. He struggled with an energy,
due as much to the sudden terror as to any exercise of the free will; but he struggled in vain.
The arms that were fastened about his own bound them down with a grasp of steel; and after
a few moments of desperate effort, accompanied with one or two exclamations, half-surprise,
half-expostulation, of "Hello, friend, what do you mean?" and "I say, now, friend, you'd better
have done--" the struggle ceased, and he lay supine in the hold of the unseen persons who had
secured him.

These persons he could not then discern; the passage was cavernously dark, and had evidently
been as much the work of nature as of art. A handkerchief was fastened about his eyes, and
he felt himself carried on the shoulders of those who made nothing of the burden. After the
progress of several minutes, in which the anxiety natural to his situation led Bunce into frequent
exclamations and entreaties, he was set down, the bandage was removed from his eyes, and he
was once more permitted their free exercise.

To his great wonder, however, nothing but women, of all sizes and ages, met his sight. In vain
did he look around for the men who brought him. They were no longer to be seen, and so silent
had been their passage out, that the unfortunate pedler was compelled to satisfy himself with
the belief that persons of the gentler sex had been in truth his captors.

Had he, indeed, given up the struggle so easily? The thought was mortifying enough; and yet,
when he looked around him, he grew more satisfied with his own efforts at resistance. He had
never seen such strongly-built women in his life: scarcely one of them but could easily have
overthrown him, without stratagem, in single combat. The faces of many of them were familiar
to him; but where had he seen them before? His memory failed him utterly, and he gave himself
up to his bewilderment.

He looked around, and the scene was well calculated to affect a nervous mind. It was a fit
scene for the painter of the supernatural. The small apartment in which they were, was formed
in great part from the natural rock; where a fissure presented itself, a huge pine-tree, overthrown
so as to fill the vacuity, completed what nature had left undone; and, bating the one or two
rude cavities left here and there in the sides--themselves so covered as to lie hidden from
all without--there was all the compactness of a regularly-constructed dwelling. A single and
small lamp, pendent from a beam that hung over the room, gave a feeble light, which, taken
in connection with that borrowed from without, served only to make visible the dark indistinct
of the place. With something dramatic in their taste, the old women had dressed themselves
in sombre habiliments, according to the general aspect of all things around them; and, as the
unfortunate pedler continued to gaze in wonderment, his fear grew with every progressive step
in his observation. One by one, however, the old women commenced stirring, and, as they moved,
now before and now behind him--his eyes following them on every side--he at length discovered,
amid the group, the small and delicate form of the very being for whom he sought.

There, indeed, were Lucy Munro and her aunt, holding a passive character in the strange assembly.
This was encouraging; and Bunce, forgetting his wonder in the satisfaction which such a prospect
afforded him, endeavored to force his way forward to them, when a salutary twitch of the arm
from one of the beldam troop, by tumbling him backward upon the floor of the cavern, brought
him again to a consideration of his predicament. He could not be restrained from speech, however--though,
as he spoke, the old women saluted his face on all hands with strokes from brushes of fern,
which occasioned him no small inconvenience. But he had gone too far now to recede; and, in
a broken manner--broken as much by his own hurry and vehemence as by the interruptions to which
he was subjected--he contrived to say enough to Lucy of the situation of Colleton, to revive
in her an interest of the most painful character. She rushed forward, and was about to ask
more from the beleaguered pedler; but it was not the policy of those having both of them in
charge to permit such a proceeding. One of the stoutest of the old women now came prominently
upon the scene, and, with a rough voice, which it is not difficult to recognise as that of
Munro, commanded the young girl away, and gave her in charge to two attendants. But she struggled
still to hear, and Bunce all the while speaking, she was enabled to gather most of the particulars
in his narration before her removal was effected.

The mummery now ceased, and Bunce having been carried elsewhere, the maskers resumed their
native apparel, having thrown aside that which had been put on for a distinct purpose. The
pedler, in another and more secure department of the robbers' hiding-place, was solaced with
the prospect of a long and dark imprisonment.

In the meantime, our little friend Chub Williams had been made to undergo his own distinct
punishment for his share in the adventure. No sooner had Bunce been laid by the heels, than
Rivers, who had directed the whole, advanced from the shelter of the cave, in company with
his lieutenant, Dillon, both armed with rifles, and, without saying a word, singling out the
tree on which Chub had perched himself, took deliberate aim at the head of the unfortunate
urchin. He saw the danger in an instant, and his first words were characteristic: "Now don't--don't,
now, I tell you, Mr. Guy--you may hit Chub!"

"Come down, then, you rascal!" was the reply, as, with a laugh, lowering the weapon, he awaited
the descent of the spy. "And now, Bur, what have you to say that I shouldn't wear out a hickory
or two upon you?"

"My name ain't Bur, Mr. Guy; my name is Chub, and I don't like to be called out of my name.
Mother always called me Chub."

"Well, Chub--since you like it best, though at best a bur--what were you doing in that tree?
How dare you spy into my dwelling, and send other people there? Speak, or I'll skin you alive!"

"Now, don't, Mr. Guy! Don't, I beg you! 'Taint right to talk so, and I don't like it!--But
is that your dwelling, Mr. Guy, in truth?--you really live in it, all the year round? Now,
you don't, do you?"

The outlaw had no fierceness when contemplating the object before him. Strange nature! He seemed
to regard the deformities of mind and body, in the outcast under his eyes, as something kindred.
Was there anything like sympathy in such a feeling? or was it rather that perversity of temper
which sometimes seems to cast an ennobling feature over violence, and to afford here and there,
a touch of that moral sunshine which can now and then give an almost redeeming expression to
the countenance of vice itself? He contemplated the idiot for a few moments with a close eye,
and a mind evidently busied in thought. Laying his hand, at length, on his shoulder, he was
about to speak, when the deformed started back from the touch as if in horror--a feeling, indeed,
fully visible in every feature of his face.

"Now, don't touch Chub, Mr. Guy! Mother said you were a dark man, and told me to keep clear
of you. Don't touch me agin, Mr. Guy; I don't like it."

The outlaw, musingly, spoke to his lieutenant: "And this is education. Who shall doubt its
importance? who shall say that it does not overthrow and altogether destroy the original nature?
The selfish mother of this miserable outcast, fearing that he might be won away from his service
to her, taught him to avoid all other persons, and even those who had treated her with kindness
were thus described to this poor dependant. To him the sympathies of others would have been
the greatest blessing; yet she so tutored him, that, at her death, he was left desolate. You
hear his account of me, gathered, as he says, and as I doubt not, from her own lips. That account
is true, so far as my other relationships with mankind are concerned; but not true as regards
my connection with her. I furnished that old creature with food when she was starving, and
when this boy, sick and impotent, could do little for her service. I never uttered a harsh
word in her ears, or treated her unkindly; yet this is the character she gives of me--and this,
indeed, the character which she has given of all others. A feeling of the narrowest selfishness
has led her deliberately to misrepresent all mankind, and has been productive of a more ungracious
result, in driving one from his species, who, more than any other, stands in need of their
sympathy and association."

While Rivers spoke thus, the idiot listened with an air of the most stupid attention. His head
fell on one shoulder, and one hand partially sustained it. As the former concluded his remarks,
Chub recovered a posture as nearly erect as possible, and remarked, with as much significance
as could comport with his general expression--

"Chub's mother was good to Chub, and Mr. Guy mustn't say nothing agin her."

"But, Chub, will you not come and live with me? I will give you a good rifle--one like this,
and you shall travel everywhere with me."

"You will beat Chub when you are angry, and make him shoot people with the rifle. I don't want
it. If folks say harm to Chub, he can lick 'em with his fists. Chub don't want to live with you."

"Well, as you please. But come in and look at my house and see where I live."

"And shall I see the strannger agin? I can lick him, and I told him so. But he called me Chub,
and I made friends with him."

"Yes, you shall see him, and--"

"And Miss Lucy, too--I want to see Miss Lucy--Chub saw her, and she spoke to Chub yesterday."

The outlaw promised him all, and after this there was no further difficulty. The unconscious
idiot scrupled no longer, and followed his conductors into--prison. It was necessary, for the
further safety of the outlaws in their present abode, that such should be the case. The secret
of their hiding-place was in the possession of quite too many; and the subject of deliberation
among the leaders was now as to the propriety of its continued tenure. The country, they felt
assured, would soon be overrun with the state troops. They had no fears of discovery from this
source, prior to the affair of the massacre of the guard, which rendered necessary the secretion
of many in their retreat, who, before that time, were perfectly unconscious of its existence.
In addition to this, it was now known to the pedler and the idiot, neither of whom had any
reason for secrecy on the subject in the event of their being able to make it public. The difficulty,
with regard to the two latter, subjected them to no small risk of suffering from the ultimate
necessities of the rogues, and there was a sharp and secret consultation as to the mode of
disposing of the two captives; but so much blood had been already spilled, that the sense of
the majority revolted at the further resort to that degree of violence--particularly, too,
when it was recollected that they could only hold their citadel for a certain and short period
of time. It was determined, therefore, that so long as they themselves continued in their hiding-place,
Bunce and Chub should, perforce, continue prisoners. Having so determined, and made their arrangements
accordingly, the two last-made captives were assigned a cell, chosen with reference to its
greater security than the other portions of their hold--one sufficiently tenacious of its trust,
it would seem, to answer well its purpose.

In the meantime, the sufferings of Lucy Munro were such as may well be understood from the
character of her feelings, as we have heretofore beheld their expression. In her own apartment--her
cell, we may style it, for she was in a sort of honorable bondage--she brooded with deep melancholy
over the narrative given by the pedler. She had no reason to doubt its correctness, and, the
more she meditated upon it, the more acute became her misery. But a day intervened, and the
trial of Ralph Colleton must take place; and, without her evidence, she was well aware there
could be no hope of his escape from the doom of felony--from the death of shame and physical
agony. The whole picture grew up before her excited fancy. She beheld the assembled crowd--she
saw him borne to execution--and her senses reeled beneath the terrible conjurations of her
fancy. She threw herself prostrate upon her couch, and strove not to think, but in vain. Her
mind, growing hourly more and more intensely excited, at length almost maddened, and she grew
conscious herself--the worst of all kinds of consciousness--that her reason was no longer secure
in its sovereignty. It was with a strong effort of the still-firm will that she strove to meditate
the best mode of rescuing the victim from the death suspended above him; and she succeeded,
while deliberating on this object, in quieting the more subtle workings of her imagination.

Many were the thoughts which came into her brain in this examination. At one time she thought
it not impossible to convey a letter, in which her testimony should be carefully set down;
but the difficulty of procuring a messenger, and the doubt that such a statement would prove
of any avail, decided her to seek for other means. An ordinary mind, and a moderate degree
of interest in the fate of the individual, would have contented itself with some such step;
but such a mind and such affections were not those of the high-souled and spirited Lucy. She
dreaded not personal danger; and to rescue the youth, whom she so much idolized, from the doom
that threatened him, she would have willingly dared to encounter that doom itself, in its darkest
forms. She determined, therefore, to rely chiefly upon herself in all efforts which she should
make for the purpose in view; and her object, therefore, was to effect a return to the village
in time to appear at the trial.

Yet how should this be done? She felt herself to be a captive; she knew the restraints upon
her--and did not doubt that all her motions were sedulously observed. How then should she proceed?
An agent was necessary; and, while deliberating with herself upon the difficulty thus assailing
her at the outset, her ears were drawn to the distinct utterance of sounds, as of persons engaged
in conversation, from the adjoining section of the rock.

One of the voices appeared familiar, and at length she distinctly made out her own name in
various parts of the dialogue. She soon distinguished the nasal tones of the pedler, whose
prison adjoined her own, separated only by a huge wall of earth and rock, the rude and jagged
sides of which had been made complete, where naturally imperfect, for the purposes of a wall,
by the free use of clay, which, plastered in huge masses into the crevices and every fissure,
was no inconsiderable apology for the more perfect structures of civilization.

Satisfied, at length, from what she heard, that the two so confined were friendly, she contrived
to make them understand her contiguity, by speaking in tones sufficiently low as to be unheard
beyond the apartment in which they were. In this way she was enabled to converse with the pedler,
to whom all her difficulties were suggested, and to whom she did not hesitate to say that she
knew that which would not fail to save the life of Colleton.

Bunce was not slow to devise various measures for the further promotion of the scheme, none
of which, however, served the purpose of showing to either party how they should get out, and,
but for the idiot, it is more than probable, despairing of success, they would at length have
thrown aside the hope of doing anything for the youth as perfectly illusory.

But Chub came in as a prime auxiliar. From the first moment in which he heard the gentle tones
of Lucy's voice, he had busied himself with his long nails and fingers in removing the various
masses of clay which had been made to fill up sundry crevices of the intervening wall, and
had so far succeeded as to detach a large square of the rock itself, which, with all possible
pains and caution, he lifted from the embrasure. This done, he could distinguish objects, though
dimly, from one apartment in the other, and thus introduced the parties to a somewhat nearer
acquaintance with one another. Having done so much, he reposed from his labors, content with
a sight of Lucy, on whom he continued to gaze with a fixed and stupid admiration.

He had pursued this work so noiselessly, and the maiden and Bunce had been so busily employed
in discussing their several plans, that they had not observed the vast progress which Chub
had made toward furnishing them with a better solution of their difficulties than any of their
own previous cogitations. When Bunce saw how much had been done in one quarter, he applied
himself resolutely to similar experiments on the opposite wall: and had the satisfaction of
discovering that, as a dungeon, the dwelling in which they were required to remain was sadly
deficient in some few of the requisites of security. With the aid of a small pick of iron,
which Lucy handed him from her cell, he pierced the outer wall in several places, in which
the clay had been required to do the offices of the rock, and had the satisfaction of perceiving,
from the sudden influx of light in the apartment, succeeding his application of the instrument,
that, with a small labor and in little time, they should be enabled to effect their escape,
at least into the free air, and under the more genial vault of heaven.

Having made this discovery, it was determined that nothing more should be done until night,
and having filled up the apertures which they had made, with one thing or another, they proceeded
to consult, with more deliberate composure, on the future progress. It was arranged that the
night should be permitted to set in fairly--that Lucy should retire early, having first taken
care that Munro and her aunt, with whom she more exclusively consorted--Rivers having kept
very much out of sight since her removal--should see her at the evening meal, without any departure
from her usual habits. Bunce undertook to officiate as guide, and as Chub expressed himself
willing to do whatever Miss Lucy should tell him, it was arranged that he should remain, occasionally
making himself heard in his cell, as if in conversation, for as long a period after their departure
as might be thought necessary to put them sufficiently in advance of pursuit--a requisition
to which Chub readily gave his consent. He was the only one of the party who appeared to regard
the whole matter with comparative indifference. He knew that a man was in danger of his life--he
felt that he himself was in prison, and he said he would rather be out among the pine-trees--but
there was no rush of feeling, such as troubled the heart of the young girl, whose spirit, clothing
itself in all the noblest habiliments of humanity, lifted her up into the choicest superiority
of character--nor had the dwarf that anxiety to do a service to his fellow, which made the
pedler throw aside some of his more worldly characteristics--he did simply as he was bid, and
had no further care.

Miss Lucy, he said, talked sweetly, like his mother, and Chub would do for Miss Lucy anything
that she asked him. The principle of his government was simple, and having chosen a sovereign,
he did not withhold his obedience. Thus stood the preparations of the three prisoners, when
darkness--long-looked-for, and hailed with trembling emotions--at length came down over the
silent homestead of the outlaws.

CHAPTER XXXII.

ESCAPE.

The night gathered apace, and the usual hour of repose had come. Lucy retired to her apartment
with a trembling heart but a courageous spirit, full of a noble determination to persevere
in her project. Though full of fear, she never for a moment thought of retreat from the decision
which she had made. Her character afforded an admirable model for the not unfrequent union
that we find in woman, of shrinking delicacy with manly and efficient firmness.

Munro and Rivers, having first been assured that all was quiet, by a ramble which they took
around their hiding-place, returned to the little chamber of the latter, such as we have described
it in a previous portion of our narrative, and proceeded to the further discussion of their
plans. The mind of the landlord was very ill at ease. He had arrived at that time of life when
repose and a fixed habitation became necessary; and when, whatever may have been the habits
of earlier manhood, the mind ceases to crave the excitements of adventure, and foregoes, or
would fain forego, all its roving characteristics. To this state of feeling had he come, and
the circumstances which now denied him the fruition of that prospect of repose which he had
been promising himself so long, were regarded with no little restlessness and impatience. At
the moment, the colleagues could make no positive arrangements for the future. Munro was both
to give up the property which, in one way or other, he had acquired in the neighborhood, and
which it was impossible for him to remove to any other region; and, strange to say, a strong
feeling of inhabitiveness--the love of home--if home he could be thought to have anywhere--might
almost be considered a passion with his less scrupulous companion.

Thus situated, they lingered on in the hope that the military would soon be withdrawn from
the neighborhood, as it could only be maintained at great expense by the state; and then, as
the country was but nominally settled, and so sparsely as to scarcely merit any consideration,
they felt assured that they might readily return to their old, or any practices, and without
any further apprehension. The necessity, however, which made them thus deliberate, had the
effect, at the same time, of impressing them with a gloomy spirit, not common to either of them.

"Let us see, Munro," said the more desperate ruffian; "there is, after all, less to apprehend
than we first thought. In a week, and the court will be over; in another week, and the guard
will be withdrawn; and for this period only will it be necessary that we should keep dark.
I think we are now perfectly safe where we are. The only persons who know of our retreat, and
might be troublesome, are safe in our possession. They will hardly escape until we let them,
and before we do so we shall first see that they can give us no further necessity for caution.
Of our own party, none are permitted to know the secrets of our hiding-place, but those in
whom we may trust confidently. I have taken care to provide for the doubtful at some distance
in the adjoining woods, exaggerating so greatly the danger of exposure, that they will hardly
venture to be seen under any circumstances by anybody. Once let these two weeks go over, and
I have no fears; we shall have no difficulties then."

"And what's to be done with the pedler and the fool? I say, Guy, there must be no more blood--I
will not agree to it. The fact is, I feel more and more dismal every day since that poor fellow's
death; and now that the youngster's taken, the thought is like fire in my brain, which tells
me he may suffer for our crime."

"Why, you are grown parson. Would you go and save him, by giving up the true criminal? I shall
look for it after this, and consider myself no longer in safety. If you go on in this manner,
I shall begin to meditate an off-hand journey to the Mississippi."

"Ay, and the sooner we all go the better--though, to be plain, Guy, let this affair once blow
over and I care not to go with you any longer. We must then cut loose for ever. I am not a
good man, I know--anything but that; but you have carried me on, step by step, until I am what
I am afraid to name to myself. You found me a rogue--you have made me a--"

"Why do you hesitate? Speak it out, Munro; it is a large step gained toward reform when we
learn to name truly our offences to ourselves."

"I dare not. The thought is sufficiently horrible without the thing. I hear some devil whispering
it too frequently in my ears, to venture upon its utterance myself. But you--how you can live
without feeling it, after your experience, which has been so much more dreadful than mine,
I know not."

"I do feel it, Munro, but have long since ceased to fear it. The reiteration takes away the
terror which is due rather to the novelty than to the offence. But when I began, I felt it.
The first sleep I had after the affair of Jessup was full of tortures. The old man, I thought,
lay beside me in my bed; his blood ran under me, and clotted around me, and fastened me there,
while his gashed face kept peering into mine, and his eyes danced over me with the fierce light
of a threatening comet. The dream nearly drove me mad, and mad I should have been had I gone
to my prayers. I knew that, and chose a different course for relief."

"What was that?"

"I sought for another victim as soon after as I conveniently could. The one spectre superseded
the other, until all vanished. They never trouble me now, though sometimes, in my waking moments,
I have met them on the roadside, glaring at me from bush or tree, until I shouted at them fiercely,
and then they were gone. These are my terrors, and they do sometimes unman me."

"They would do more with me; they would destroy me on the spot. But, let us have no more of
this. Let us rather see if we can not do something towards making our visions more agreeable.
Do you persevere in the sacrifice of this youngster? Must he die?"

"Am I a child, Walter Munro, that you ask me such a question? Must I again tell over the accursed
story of my defeat and of his success? Must I speak of my thousand defeats--of my overthrown
pretensions--my blasted hopes, where I had set my affections--upon which every feeling of my
heart had been placed? Must I go over a story so full of pain and humiliation--must I describe
my loss, in again placing before your eyes a portraiture like this? Look, man, look--and read
my answer in the smile, which, denying me, teaches me, in this case, to arm myself with a denial
as immutable as hers."

He placed before his companion the miniature of Edith, which he took from his bosom, where
he seemed carefully to treasure it. He was again the envenomed and the excited savage which
we have elsewhere seen him, and in which mood Munro knew well that nothing could be done with
him in the shape of argument or entreaty. He went on:--

"Ask me no questions, Munro, so idle, so perfectly unnecessary as this. Fortune has done handsomely
here. He falls through me, yet falls by the common hangman. What a double blow is this to both
of them. I have been striving to imagine their feelings, and such a repast as that effort has
procured me--I would not exchange it--no--not for worlds--for nothing less, Munro, than my
restoration back to that society--to that place in society, from which my fierce passions,
and your cruel promptings, and the wrongs of society itself, have for ever exiled me."

"And would you return, if you could do so?"

"To-morrow--to-night--this instant. I am sanguinary, Munro--revengeful--fierce--all that is
bad, because I am not permitted to be better. My pride, my strong feelings and deeply absorbing
mood--these have no other field for exercise. The love of home, the high ambition, which, had
society done me common justice, and had not, in enslaving itself, dishonored and defrauded
me--would, under other circumstances, have made me a patriot. My pride is even now to command
the admiration of men--I never sought their love. Their approbation would have made me fearless
and powerful in their defence and for their rights--their injustice makes me their enemy. My
passions, unprovoked and unexaggerated by mortifying repulses, would have only been a warm
and stimulating influence, perpetually working in their service--but, pressed upon and irritated
as they have been they grew into so many wild beasts, and preyed upon the cruel or the careless
keepers, whose gentle treatment and constant attention had tamed them into obedient servants.
Yet, would I could, even now, return to that condition in which there might be hope. The true
spectre of the criminal--such as I am--the criminal chiefly from the crimes and injustice of
society, not forgetting the education of my boyhood, which grew out of the same crimes, and
whose most dreadful lesson is selfishness--is despair! The black waters once past, the blacker
hills rise between, and there is no return to those regions of hope, which, once lost, are
lost for ever. This is the true punishment--the worst punishment which man inflicts upon his
fellow--the felony of public opinion. The curse of society is no unfit illustration of that
ban which its faith holds forth as the penal doom of the future. There is no return!"

The dialogue, mixed up thus, throughout, with the utterance of opinions on the part of the
outlaw, many of which were true or founded in truth, yet coupled with many false deductions--was
devoted, for some little while longer, to the discussion of their various necessities and plans
for the future. The night had considerably advanced in this way, when, of a sudden, their ears
were assailed with an eldritch screech, like that of the owl, issuing from one of the several
cells around them.

The quick sense of Rivers immediately discerned the voice of the idiot, and without hesitation
he proceeded to that division of the rock which contained the two prisoners. To each of these
apartments had been assigned a sentinel, or watch, whose own place of abode--while covered
completely and from sight, and in all respects furnishing a dwelling, though rather a confined
one for himself--enabled him to attend to the duty assigned him without himself being seen.
The night had been fairly set in, when Bunce, with the aid of Chub Williams, with all due caution
proceeded to his task, and with so much success, that, in the course of a couple of hours,
they had succeeded, not only in making a fair outlet for themselves, but for Lucy Munro too.

The watchman, in the meantime, holding his duty as merely nominal, gave himself as little trouble
as possible; and believing all things quiet, had, after a little while, insinuated himself
into the good graces of as attractive a slumber as may usually be won in the warm summer season
in the south, by one to whom a nightwatch is a peculiarly ungracious exercise. Before this
conclusion, however, he looked forth every now and then, and deceived by the natural stillness
of earth and sky, he committed the further care of the hours, somewhat in anticipation of the
time, to the successor who was to relieve him on the watch.

Without being conscious of this decision in their favor, and ignorant entirely of the sentinel
himself, the pedler fortunately chose this period for his own departure with the young lady
whom he was to escort; and who, with probably far less fear than her gallant, did not scruple,
for a single instant, to go forth under his guidance. Chub took his instructions from the lips
of Lucy, and promised the most implicit obedience.

They had scarcely been well gone when the sentinels were changed, and one something more tenacious
of discipline, or something less drowsy than his predecessor, took his place. After muttering
at intervals, as directed, for the space of an hour, probably, from the time at which his companion
had departed, Chub thought it only prudent to sally forth too. Accordingly, ascending to the
break in the wall, through which his companion had made his way, the urchin emerged from the
cavern at the unlucky moment, when, at some ten or fifteen paces in front of him, the sentinel
came forth from his niche to inspect the order of his watch. Chub saw his adversary first,
and his first impulse originated the scream which drew the attention of Rivers, as already
narrated. The outlaw rushed quickly to the scene of difficulty, and before the sentinel had
well recovered from the astonishment occasioned by the singularly sudden appearance and wild
screech of the urchin.

"Why, what is this, Briggs; what see you?" was the hasty inquiry of Rivers.

"There, sir, there," exclaimed the watch, still half bewildered, and pointing to the edge of
the hill, where, in a condition seemingly of equal incertitude with himself, stood the imbecile.

"Seize upon him--take him at once--let him not escape you!" were the hasty orders of the outlaw.
Briggs set forward, but his approach had the effect of giving determination also to Chub; who,
just as the pursuer thought himself sure of his captive, and was indeed indirectly upon him,
doubled himself up, as it were into a complete ball, and without effort rolled headlong down
the hill; gathering upon his feet as he attained the level, seemingly unhurt, and with all
the agility of the monkey.

"Shall I shoot, sir?" was the inquiry of Briggs, as the urchin stood off, laughing wildly at
his good fortune.

"Now, don't"--was the cry--"Now, don't"--was the exclamation of Chub himself, who, however,
trusting nothing to the effect of his entreaty, ran vigorously on his way.

"Yes, shoot him down," was the sudden exclamation of Munro; but Rivers struck the poised weapon
upward in the hands of the sentinel, to the astonishment, not less of him than of the landlord.

"No--let him live, Munro. Let him live. Such as he should be spared. Is he not alone--without
fellowship--scorned--an outcast--without sympathy--like myself. Let him live, let him live!"

The word of mercy from his lips utterly confounded his companion. But, remembering that Rivers
was a monster of contradictions, Munro turned away, and gave directions to see after the other
prisoners.

A few moments sufficed for this, and the panic was universal among the inmates of the rock.
The secret was now lost, unless immediate pursuit could avail in the recovery of the fugitives.
This pursuit was immediately undertaken, and both Rivers and Munro, taking different directions,
and dispersing their whole force about the forest, set off on the search.

Apprehensive of pursuit, the policy of Bunce, to whom Lucy gave up the entire direction of
their flight, was determined upon with not a little judgment. Assured that his pursuers would
search chiefly on the direct route between their abode and the village, to which they would
necessarily surmise the flight was directed, he boldly determined upon a course, picked sinuously
out, obliquing largely from the true direction, which, while it would materially lengthen the
distance, would at least secure them, he thought, from the danger of contact with the scouring
party.

By no means ignorant of the country, in and about which he had frequently travelled in the
pursuit of trade, he contrived, in this way, completely to mislead the pursuers; and the morning
found them still some distance from the village, but in a direction affording few chances of
interruption in their contemplated approach to it.

Lucy was dreadfully fatigued, and a frequent sense of weariness almost persuaded her to lay
down life itself in utter exhaustion: but the encouraging words of the pedler, and the thought
of his peril, for whose safety--though herself hopeless of all besides--she would willingly
peril all, restored her, and invigorated her to renewed effort.

At the dawn of day they approached a small farmhouse, some of the inmates of which happened
to know Lucy; and, though they looked somewhat askant at her companion, and wondered not a
little at the circumstance of her travelling at such a time of night, yet, as she was generally
well respected, their surmises and scruples were permitted to sleep; and, after a little difficulty,
they were persuaded to lend her the family pony and side-saddle, with the view to the completion
of her journey. After taking some slight refreshment, she hurried on; Bunce, keeping the road
afoot, alongside, with all the patient docility of a squire of the middle ages; and to the
great satisfaction of all parties, they arrived in sight of the village just as Counsellor
Pippin, learned in the law, was disputing with the state attorney upon the non-admissibility
of certain points of testimony, which it was the policy of the former to exclude.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

DOOM.

The village of Chestatee was crowded with visiters of all descriptions. Judges and lawyers,
soldiers and citizens and farmers--all classes were duly represented, and a more wholesome
and subordinate disposition in that quarter, may be inferred as duly resulting from the crowd.
Curiosity brought many to the spot from portions of country twenty, thirty, and even forty
miles off--for, usually well provided with good horses, the southron finds a difference of
ten or twenty miles no great matter.

Such had been the reputation of the region here spoken of, not less for its large mineral wealth
than for the ferocious character of those in its neighborhood, that numbers, who would not
otherwise have adventured, now gladly took advantage of the great excitement, and the presence
of so many, to examine a section of country of which they had heard so much. There came the
planter, of rather more wealth than his neighbors, solicitous for some excitement and novelty
to keep himself from utter stagnation. There came the farmer, discontented with his present
abiding-place, and in search of a new spot of more promise, in which to drive stakes and do
better. The lawyer, from a neighboring county, in search of a cause; the creditor in search
of his runaway debtor--the judge and the jury also adding something, not less to the number
than the respectability of the throng.

The grand-jury had found several bills, and most of them for the more aggravated offences in
the estimation of the law. Rivers, Munro, Blundell, Forrester, were all severally and collectively
included in their inquiries; but as none of the parties were to be found for the present at
least, as one of them had been removed to another and higher jurisdiction, the case of most
importance left for trial was that which charged Colleton with Forrester's murder.

There was no occasion for delay; and, in gloomy and half-desponding mood, though still erect
and unshrinking to the eye of the beholder, Ralph refused the privilege of a traverse, and
instructed Pippin to go on with the case. The lawyer himself had not the slightest objection
to this procedure, for, not to be harsh in our estimate of his humanities, there is no reason
to believe that he regarded for a single instant the value of his client's life, but as its
preservation was to confer credit upon his capacity as his legal friend and adviser. The issue
was consequently made up without delay--the indictment was read--the prisoner put himself upon
God and the country, according to the usual forms, and the case proceeded.

The general impression of the spectators was decidedly in favor of the accused. His youth--the
noble bearing--the ease, the unobtrusive confidence--the gentle expression, pliant and, though
sad, yet entirely free from anything like desponding weakness--all told in his favor. He was
a fine specimen of the southern gentleman--the true nobleman of that region, whose pride of
character is never ostentatiously displayed and is only to be felt in the influence which it
invariably exercises over all with whom it may have contact or connection. Though firm in every
expression, and manly in every movement, there was nothing in the habit and appearance of Ralph,
which, to the eye of those around, savored of the murderer. There was nothing ruffianly or
insincere. But, as the testimony proceeded--when the degree of intimacy was shown which had
existed between himself and the murdered man--when they heard that Forrester had brought him
wounded and fainting to his home--had attended him--had offered even to fight for him with
Rivers; when all these facts were developed, in connection with the sudden flight of the person
so befriended--on the same night with him who had befriended him--he having a knowledge of
the proposed departure of the latter-and with the finding of the bloody dagger marked with
the youth's initials--the feeling of sympathy very perceptibly underwent a change. The people,
proverbially fickle, and, in the present instance justifiably so, veered round to the opposite
extreme of opinion, and a confused buzz around, sometimes made sufficiently audible to all
senses, indicated the unfavorable character of the change. The witnesses were closely examined,
and the story was complete and admirably coherent. The presumptions, as they were coupled together,
were conclusive; and, when it was found that not a solitary witness came forward even to say
that the accused was a man of character and good connections--a circumstance which could not
materially affect the testimony as it stood, but which, wanting, gave it additional force--the
unhappy youth, himself, felt that all was over.

A burning flush, succeeded by a deathlike paleness, came over his face for a moment--construed
by those around into a consciousness of guilt; for, where the prejudices of men become active,
all appearances of change, which go not to affect the very foundation of the bias, are only
additional proofs of what they have before believed. He rested his head upon his hands in deep
but momentary agony. What were his feelings then? With warm, pure emotions; with a pride only
limited by a true sense of propriety; with an ambition whose eye was sunward ever; with affections
which rendered life doubly desirable, and which made love a high and holy aspiration: with
these several and predominating feelings struggling in his soul, to be told of such a doom;
to be stricken from the respect of his fellows; to forfeit life, and love, and reputation;
to undergo the punishment of the malefactor, and to live in memory only as a felon--ungrateful,
foolish, fiendish--a creature of dishonest passions, and mad and merciless in their exercise!

The tide of thought which bore to his consciousness all these harrowing convictions, was sudden
as the wing of the lightning, and nearly shattered, in that single instant, the towering manhood
whose high reachings had attracted it. But the pride consequent to his education, and the society
in which he had lived, came to his relief; and, after the first dreadful agony of soul, he
again stood erect, and listened, seemingly unmoved, to the defences set up by his counsel.

But how idle, even to his mind, desirous as he must have been of every species of defence,
were all the vainglorious mouthings of the pettifogger! He soon discovered that the ambition
of Pippin chiefly consisted in the utterance of his speech. He saw, too, in a little while,
that the nonsense of the lawyer had not even the solitary merit--if such it be--of being extemporaneous;
and in the slow and monotonous delivery of a long string of stale truisms, not bearing any
analogy to the case in hand, he perceived the dull elaborations of the closet.

But such was not the estimate of the lawyer himself. He knew what he was about; and having
satisfied himself that the case was utterly hopeless, he was only solicitous that the people
should see that he could still make a speech. He well knew that his auditory, perfectly assured
with himself of the hopelessness of the defence, would give him the credit of having made the
most of his materials, and this was all he wanted. In the course of his exhortations, however,
he was unfortunate enough to make an admission for his client which was, of itself, fatal;
and his argument thence became unnecessary. He admitted that the circumstances sufficiently
established the charge of killing, but proceeded, however, to certain liberal assumptions,
without any ground whatever, of provocation on the part of Forrester, which made his murder
only matter of self-defence on the side of the accused, whose crime therefore became justifiable:
but Ralph, who had for some time been listening with manifest impatience to sundry other misrepresentations,
not equally evil with this, but almost equally annoying, now rose and interrupted him; and,
though the proceeding was something informal, proceeded to correct the statement.

"No one, may it please your honor, and you, gentlemen, now presiding over my fate, can be more
conscious than myself, from the nature of the evidence given in this case, of the utter hopelessness
of any defence which may be offered on my behalf. But, while recognising, in their fullest
force, the strong circumstantial proofs of crime which you have heard, I may be permitted to
deny for myself what my counsel has been pleased to admit for me. To say that I have not been
guilty of this crime, is only to repeat that which was said when I threw myself upon the justice
of the country. I denied any knowledge of it then--I deny any knowledge of, or participation
in it, now. I am not guilty of this killing, whether with or without justification. The blood
of the unfortunate man Forrester is not upon my hands; and, whatever may be your decree this
day, of this sweet consciousness nothing can deprive me."

"I consider, may it please your honor, that my counsel, having virtually abandoned my cause,
I have the right to go on with it myself--"

But Pippin, who had been dreadfully impatient heretofore, started forward with evident alarm.

"Oh, no--no, your honor--my client--Mr. Colleton--how can you think such a thing? I have not,
your honor, abandoned the case. On the contrary, your honor will remember that it was while
actually proceeding with the case that I was interrupted."

The youth, with a singular degree of composure, replied:--

"Your honor will readily understand me, though the gentleman of the bar does not. I conceive
him not only to have abandoned the case, your honor, but actually to have joined hand and hand
with the prosecuting counsel. It is true, sir, that he still calls himself my counsel--and
still, under that name, presumes to harangue, as he alleges, in my behalf; but, when he violates
the truth, not less than my instructions--when he declares all that is alleged against me in
that paper to be true, all of which I declare to be false--when he admits me to be guilty of
a crime of which I am not guilty--I say that he has not only abandoned my case, but that he
has betrayed the trust reposed in him. What, your honor, must the jury infer from the confession
which he has just made?--what, but that in my conference with him I have made the same confession?
It becomes necessary, therefore, may it please your honor, not only that I take from him, thus
openly, the power which I confided to him, but that I call upon your honor to demand from him,
upon oath, whether such an admission was ever made to him by me. I know that my own words will
avail me nothing here--I also know why they should not--but I am surely entitled to require
that he should speak out, as to the truth, when his misrepresentations are to make weight against
me in future. His oath, that I made no such confession to him, will avail nothing for my defence,
but will avail greatly with those who, from present appearances, are likely to condemn me.
I call upon him, may it please your honor, as matter of right, that he should be sworn to this
particular. This, your honor will perceive, if my assertion be true, is the smallest justice
which he can do me; beyond this I will ask and suggest nothing--leaving it to your own mind
how far the license of his profession should be permitted to one who thus not only abandons,
but betrays and misrepresents his client."

The youth was silent, and Pippin rose to speak in his defence. Without being sworn, he admitted
freely that such a confession had not been made, but that he had inferred the killing from
the nature of the testimony, which he thought conclusive on the point; that his object had
been to suggest a probable difficulty between the parties, in which he would have shown Forrester
as the aggressor. He bungled on for some time longer in this manner, but, as he digressed again
into the defence of the accused, Ralph again begged to interrupt him.

"I think it important, may it please your honor, that the gentleman should be sworn as to the
simple fact which he has uttered. I want it on record, that, at some future day, the few who
have any interest in my fate should feel no mortifying doubts of my innocence when reminded
of the occurrence--which this strange admission, improperly circulated, might otherwise occasion.
Let him swear, your honor, to the fact: this, I think, I may require."

After a few moments of deliberation, his honor decided that the demand was one of right, strictly
due, not merely to the prisoner and to the abstract merits of the case, but also to the necessity
which such an event clearly occasioned, of establishing certain governing principles for restraining
those holding situations so responsible, who should so far wilfully betray their trusts. The
lawyer was made to go through the humiliating process, and then subjected to a sharp reprimand
from the judge; who, indeed, might have well gone further, in actually striking his name from
the rolls of court.

It was just after this interesting period in the history of the trial--and when Pippin, who
could not be made to give up the case, as Ralph had required, was endeavoring to combat with
the attorney of the state some incidental points of doctrine, and to resist their application
to certain parts of the previously, recorded testimony--that our heroine, Lucy Munro, attended
by her trusty squire, Bunce, made her appearance in the courthouse.

She entered the hall more dead than alive. The fire was no longer in her eye--a thick haze
had overspread its usually rich and lustrous expression; her form trembled with the emotion--the
strong and struggling emotion of her soul; and fatigue had done much toward the general enervation
of her person. The cheek was pale with the innate consciousness; the lips were blanched, and
slightly parted, as if wanting in the muscular exercise which could bring them together. She
tottered forward to the stand upon which the witnesses were usually assembled, and to which
her course had been directed, and for a few moments after her appearance in the courtroom her
progress had been as one stunned by a sudden and severe blow.

But, when roused by the confused hum of human voices around her, she ventured to look up, and
her eye, as if by instinct, turned upon the dark box assigned for the accused--she again saw
the form, in her mind and eye, of almost faultless mould and excellence--then there was no
more weakness, no more struggle. Her eye kindled, the color rushed into her cheeks, a sudden
spirit reinvigorated her frame; and, with clasped hands, she boldly ascended the small steps
which led to the stand from which her evidence was to be given, and declared her ability, in
low tones, almost unheard but by the judge, to furnish matter of interest and importance to
the defence. Some little demur as to the formality of such a proceeding, after the evidence
had been fairly closed, took place between the counsel; but, fortunately for justice, the judge
was too wise and too good a man to limit the course of truth to prescribed rules, which could
not be affected by a departure, in the present instance, from their restraints. The objection
was overruled, and the bold but trembling girl was called upon for her testimony.

A new hope had been breathed into the bosoms of the parties most concerned, on the appearance
of this interruption to the headlong and impelling force of the circumstances so fatally arrayed
against the prisoner. The pedler was overjoyed, and concluded that the danger was now safely
over. The youth himself felt his spirit much lighter in his bosom, although he himself knew
not the extent of that testimony in his favor which Lucy was enabled to give. He only knew
that she could account for his sudden flight on the night of the murder, leading to a fair
presumption that he had not premeditated such an act; and knew not that it was in her power
to overthrow the only fact, among the circumstances arrayed against him, by which they had
been so connected as to make out his supposed guilt.

Sanguine, herself, that the power was in her to effect the safety of the accused, Lucy had
not for a moment considered the effect upon others, more nearly connected with her than the
youth, of the development which she was prepared to make. These considerations were yet to come.

The oath was administered; she began her narration, but at the very outset, the difficulties
of her situation beset her. How was she to save the man she loved? How, but by showing the
guilt of her uncle? How was she to prove that the dirk of the youth was not in his possession
at the time of the murder? By showing that, just before that time, it was in the possession
of Munro, who was setting forth for the express purpose of murdering the very man, now accused
and held guilty of the same crime. The fearful gathering of thoughts and images, thus, without
preparation, working in her mind, again destroyed the equilibrium by which her truer senses
would have enforced her determination to proceed. Her head swam, her words were confused and
incoherent, and perpetually contradictory. The hope which her presence had inspired as suddenly
departed; and pity and doubt were the prevailing sentiments of the spectators.

After several ineffectual efforts to proceed, she all at once seemed informed of the opinions
around her, and gathering new courage from the dreadful thought now forcing itself upon her
mind, that what she had said had done nothing toward her object, she exclaimed impetuously,
advancing to the judge, and speaking alternately from him to the jury and the counsel--

"He is not guilty of this crime, believe me. I may not say what I know--I can not--you would
not expect me to reveal it. It would involve others whom I dare not name. I must not say that--but,
believe me, Mr. Colleton is not guilty--he did not commit the murder--it was somebody else--I
know, I will swear, he had no hand in the matter."

"Very well, my young lady, I have no doubt you think, and honestly believe, all that you say;
but what reasons have you for this bold assertion in the teeth of all the testimony which has
already been given? You must not be surprised, if we are slow in believing what you tell us,
until you can show upon what grounds you make your statement. How know you that the prisoner
did not commit this crime? Do you know who did? Can you reveal any facts for our knowledge?
This is what you must do. Do not be terrified--speak freely--officer! a chair for the lady--tell
us all that you know--keep nothing back--remember, you are sworn to speak the truth--the whole
truth."

The judge spoke kindly and encouragingly, while, with considerable emphasis, he insisted upon
a full statement of all she knew. But the distress of the poor girl increased with every moment
of thought, which warned her of the predicament in which such a statement must necessarily
involve her uncle. "Oh, how can I speak all this? How can I tell that which must destroy him--"

"Him?--Of whom do you speak, lady? Who is he?" inquired the attorney of the state.

"He--who?--Oh, no, I can say nothing. I can tell you nothing. I know nothing but that Mr. Colleton
is not guilty. He struck no blow at Forrester. I am sure of it--some other hand--some other
person. How can you believe that he would do so?"

There was no such charitable thought for him, however, in the minds of those who heard--as
how should there be? A whispering dialogue now took place between the judge and the counsel,
in which, while they evidently looked upon her as little better than demented with her love
for the accused, they still appeared to hold it due to justice, not less than to humanity,
to obtain from her every particular of testimony bearing on the case, which, by possibility,
she might really have in her possession. Not that they really believed that she knew anything
which might avail the prisoner. Regarding her as individually and warmly interested in his
life, they looked upon her appearance, and the evidence which she tendered--if so it might
be styled--as solely intended to provoke sympathy, gain time, or, possibly, as the mere ebullition
of feelings so deeply excited as to have utterly passed the bounds of all restraining reason.
The judge, who was a good, not less than a sensible man, undertook, in concluding this conference,
to pursue the examination himself, with the view to bringing out such portions of her information
as delicacy or some other more influential motive might persuade her to conceal.

"You are sure, Miss Munro, of the innocence of the prisoner so sure that you are willing to
swear to it. Such is your conviction, at least; for, unless you saw the blow given by another
hand, or could prove Mr. Colleton to have been elsewhere at the time of the murder, of course
you could not, of a certainty, swear to any such fact. You are not now to say whether you believe
him capable of such an act or not. You are to say whether you know of any circumstances which
shall acquit him of the charge, or furnish a plausible reason, why others, not less than yourself,
should have a like reason with yourself to believe him innocent. Can you do this, Miss Munro?
Can you show anything, in this chain of circumstances, against him, which, of your own knowledge,
you can say to be untrue? Speak out, young lady, and rely upon every indulgence from the court."

Here the judge recapitulated all the evidence which had been furnished against the prisoner.
The maiden listened with close attention, and the difficulties of her situation became more
and more obvious. Finding her slow to answer, though her looks were certainly full of meaning,
the presiding officer took another course for the object which he had in view. He now proceeded
to her examination in the following form:--

"You know the prisoner?"

"I do."

"You knew the murdered man?"

"Perfectly."

"Were they frequently together since the appearance of the prisoner in these regions?"

"Frequently."

"At the house in which you dwell?"

"Yes."

"Were they together on the day preceding the night of the murder?"

"They were--throughout the better portion of it."

"Did they separate at your place of residence, and what was the employment of the prisoner
subsequently on the same day?"

"They did separate while at our house, Mr. Colleton retiring at an early hour of the evening
to his chamber."

"So far, Miss Munro, your answers correspond directly with the evidence, and now come the important
portions. You will answer briefly and distinctly. After that, did you see anything more of
the prisoner, and know you of his departure from the house--the hour of the night--the occasion
of his going--and the circumstances attending it?"

These questions were, indeed, all important to the female delicacy of the maiden, as well as
to the prisoner, and as her eye sunk in confusion, and as her cheek paled and kindled with
the innate consciousness, the youth, who had hitherto been silent, now rose, and without the
slightest hesitancy of manner, requested of the maiden that she would say no more.

"See you not, your honor, that her mind wavers--that she speaks and thinks wildly? I am satisfied
that though she might say something, your honor, in accounting for my strange flight, yet,
as that constitutes but a small feature in the circumstances against me, what she can allege
will avail me little. Press her no farther, therefore, I entreat you. Let her retire. Her word
can do me no good, and I would not, that, for my sake and life, she should feel, for a single
instant an embarrassment of spirit, which, though it be honorable in its character, must necessarily
be distressing in its exercise. Proceed with your judgment, I pray you--whatever it may be;
I am now ready for the worst, and though innocent as the babe unborn of the crime urged against
me, I am not afraid to meet its consequences. I am not unwilling to die."

"But you must not die--they will not--they can not find you guilty! How know they you are guilty?
Who dares say you are guilty, when I know you are innocent? Did I not see you fly? Did I not
send you on your way--was it not to escape from murder yourself that you flew, and how should
you have been guilty of that crime of which you were the destined victim yourself? Oh, no--no!
you are not guilty--and the dagger--I heard that!--that is not true--oh, no, the dagger,--you
dropt it--"

The eye of the inspired girl was caught by a glance--a single glance--from one at the opposite
corner of the court-room, and that glance brought her back to the full consciousness of the
fearful development she was about to make. A decrepit old woman, resting with bent form upon
a staff, which was planted firmly before her, seemed wrapped in the general interest pervading
the court. The woman was huge of frame and rough of make; her face was large and swollen, and
the tattered cap and bonnet, the coarse and soiled materials which she wore, indicated one
of the humblest caste in the country. Her appearance attracted no attention, and she was unmarked
by all around; few having eyes for anything but the exciting business under consideration.

But the disguise did not conceal her uncle from the glance of his niece. That one look had
the desired effect--the speech was arrested before its conclusion, and the spectators, now
more than ever assured of the partial sanity of the witness, gave up any doubts which had previously
began to grow in behalf of the accused. A second look of the landlord was emphatic enough for
the purpose of completely silencing her farther evidence. She read in its fearful expression,
as plainly as if spoken in words--"The next syllable you utter is fatal to your uncle--your
father. Now speak, Lucy, if you can."

For a single moment she was dumb and stationary--her eye turned from her uncle to the prisoner.
Horror, and the agonies natural to the strife in her bosom, were in its wild expression, and,
with a single cry of "I can not--I must not save him!" from her pallid lips, she sunk down
senseless upon the floor, and was borne out by several of the more sympathizing spectators.

There was nothing now to delay the action of the court. The counsel had closed with the argument,
and the judge proceeded in his charge to the jury. His remarks were rather favorable than otherwise
to the prisoner. He dwelt upon his youth--his manliness--the seeming excellence of his education,
and the propriety which had marked his whole behavior on trial. These he spoke of as considerations
which must, of course, make the duty, which they had to perform, more severely painful to all.
But they could not do away with the strong and tenacious combination of circumstances against
him. These were all closely knit, and all tended strongly to the conviction of the guilt of
the accused. Still they were circumstantial; and the doubts of the jury were, of course, so
many arguments on the side of mercy. He concluded.

But the jury had no doubts. How should they doubt? They deliberated, indeed, for form's sake,
but not long. In a little while they returned to their place, and the verdict was read by the
clerk.

"Guilty."

"Guilty," responded the prisoner, and for a moment his head dropped upon his clasped hands,
and his frame shivered as with an ague.

"Guilty--guilty--Oh, my father--Edith--Edith--have I lived for this?"

There was no other sign of human weakness. He arose with composure, and followed, with firm
step, the officer to his dungeon. His only thought was of the sorrows and the shame of others--of
those of whom he had been the passion and the pride--of that father's memory and name, of whom
he had been the cherished hope--of that maiden of whom he had been the cherished love. His
firm, manly bearing won the esteem of all those who, nevertheless, at the same moment, had
few if any doubts of the justice of his doom.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

PRAYERS AND PROMISES.

Ralph Colleton was once more in his dungeon--alone and without hope. For a moment during the
progress of his trial, and at the appearance of Lucy, he deemed it possible that some providential
fortune might work a change in the aspect of things, favorable to his escape from what, to
his mind, was far worse than any thought of death, in the manner of his death. But when, after
a moment of reflection, he perceived that the feminine delicacy of the maiden must suffer from
any further testimony from her lips--when he saw that, most probably, in the minds of all who
heard her narration, the circumstance of her appearance in his chamber and at such an hour
of the night, and for any object, would be fatal to her reputation--when he perceived this
consciousness, too, weighing down even to agony the soul of the still courageous witness--the
high sense of honor which had always prompted him, not less than that chivalrous consideration
of the sex taught in the south among the earliest lessons of society to its youth--compelled
him to interpose, and prevent, if possible, all further utterance, which, though possibly all-important
to him, would be fatally destructive to her.

He did so at his own self-sacrifice! We have seen how the poor girl was silenced. The result
was, that Ralph Colleton was again in his dungeon--hope shut out from its walls, and a fearful
death and ignominy written upon them. When the officers attending him had retired--when he
heard the bolt shot, and saw that the eyes of curiosity were excluded--the firm spirit fled
which had supported him. There was a passing weakness of heart which overcame its energies
and resolve, and he sunk down upon the single chair allotted to his prison. He buried his face
in his hands, and the warm tears gushed freely through his fingers. While thus weeping, like
a very child, he heard the approach of footsteps without. In a moment he recovered all his
manliness and calm. The traces of his weakness were sedulously brushed from his cheeks, and
the handkerchief employed for the purpose studiously put out of sight. He was not ashamed of
the pang, but he was not willing that other eyes should behold it. Such was the nature of his
pride--the pride of strength, moral strength, and superiority over those weaknesses, which,
however natural they may be, are nevertheless not often held becoming in the man.

It was the pedler, Bunce, who made his appearance--choosing, with a feature of higher characteristic
than would usually have been allotted him, rather to cheer the prison hours of the unfortunate,
than to pursue his own individual advantages; which, at such a time, might not have been inconsiderable.
The worthy pedler was dreadfully disappointed in the result of his late adventure. He had not
given himself any trouble to inquire into the nature of those proofs which Lucy Munro had assured
him were in her possession; but satisfied as much by his own hope as by her assurance, that
all would be as he wished it, he had been elevated to a pitch of almost indecorous joy which
strongly contrasted with his present depression. He had little now to say in the way of consolation,
and that little was coupled with so much that was unjust to the maiden, as to call forth, at
length, the rebuke of Colleton.

"Forbear on this subject, my good sir--she did what she could, and what she might have said
would not have served me much. It was well she said no more. Her willingness--her adventuring
so much in my behalf--should alone be sufficient to protect her from everything like blame.
But tell me, Bunce, what has become of her--where is she gone, and who is now attending her?"

"Why, they took her back to the old tavern. A great big woman took her there, and looked after
her. I did go and had a sight on her, and there, to be sure, was Munro's wife, though her I
did see, I'll be sworn, in among the rocks where they shut us up."

"And was Munro there?"

"Where--in the rocks?"

"No--in the tavern?--You say his wife had come back--did he trust himself there?"

"I rather guess not--seeing as how he'd stand a close chance of 'quaintance with the rope.
No, neither him, nor Rivers, nor any of the regulators--thank the powers--ain't to be seen
nowhere. They're all off--up into the nation, I guess, or off, down in Alabam by this time,
clear enough."

"And who did you see at the rocks, and what men were they that made you prisoners?"

"Men--if I said men, I was 'nation out, I guess. Did I say men?"

"I understood you so."

"'Twan't men at all. Nothing better than women, and no small women neither. Didn't see a man
in the neighborhood, but Chub, and he ain't no man neither."

"What is he?"

"Why, for that matter, he's neither one thing nor another--nothing, no how. A pesky little
creature! What they call a hobbe-de-hoy will suit for his name sooner than any other that I
know on. For he ain't a man and he ain't a boy; but jest a short, half-grown up chunk of a
fellow, with bunchy shoulders, and a big head, with a mouth like an oven, and long lap ears
like saddle flaps."

In this manner the pedler informed Ralph of all those previous particulars with which he had
not till then been made acquainted. This having been done, and the dialogue having fairly reached
its termination--and the youth exhibiting some strong symptoms of weariness--Bunce took his
departure for the present, not, however, without again proffering his services. These Ralph
did not scruple to accept--giving him, at the same time, sundry little commissions, and among
them a message of thanks and respectful consideration to Miss Munro.

She, in the meanwhile, had, upon fainting in the court-room, been borne off in a state of utter
insensibility, to the former residence of Munro, to which place, as the pedler has already
informed us, the wife of the landlord had that very morning returned, resuming, precisely as
before, all the previous order of her domestic arrangements. The reason for this return may
be readily assigned. The escape of the pedler and of Lucy from their place of temporary confinement
had completely upset all the prior arrangements of the outlaws. They now conceived it no longer
safe as a retreat; and failing as they did to overtake the fugitives, it was determined that,
in the disguises which had been originally suggested for their adoption, they should now venture
into the village, as many of them as were willing, to obtain that degree of information which
would enable them to judge what further plans to adopt.

As Rivers had conjectured, Chub Williams, so far from taking for the village, had plunged deeper
into the woods, flying to former and well known haunts, and regarding the face of man as that
of a natural enemy. The pedler had seen none but women, or those so disguised as such as to
seem none other than what they claimed to be--while Lucy had been permitted to see none but
her uncle and aunt, and one or two persons she had never met before.

Under these circumstances, Rivers individually felt no apprehensions that his wild refuge would
be searched; but Munro, something older, less sanguine, and somewhat more timid than his colleague,
determined no longer to risk it; and having, as we have seen, effectually checked the utterance
of that evidence which, in the unconscious excitation of his niece, must have involved him
more deeply in the meshes of the law, besides indicating his immediate and near neighborhood,
he made his way, unobserved, from the village, having first provided for her safety, and as
he had determined to keep out of the way himself, having brought his family back to their old
place of abode.

He had determined on this course from a variety of considerations. Nothing, he well knew, could
affect his family. He had always studiously kept them from any participation in his offences.
The laws had no terror for them; and, untroubled by any process against him, they could still
remain and peaceably possess his property, of which he well knew, in the existing state of
society in the South, no legal outlawry of himself would ever avail to deprive them. This could
not have been his hope in their common flight. Such a measure, too, would only have impeded
his progress, in the event of his pursuit, and have burdened him with encumbrances which would
perpetually involve him in difficulty. He calculated differently his chances. His hope was
to be able, when the first excitements had overblown, to return to the village, and at least
quietly to effect such a disposition of his property, which was not inconsiderable, as to avoid
the heavy and almost entire loss which would necessarily follow any other determination.

In all this, however, it may be remarked that the reasonings of Rivers, rather than his own,
determined his conduct. That more adventurous ruffian had, from his superior boldness and greater
capacities in general, acquired a singular and large influence over his companion: he governed
him, too, as much by his desire of gain as by any distinct superiority which he himself possessed;
he stimulated his avarice with the promised results of their future enterprises in the same
region after the passing events were over; and thus held him still in that fearful bondage
of subordinate villany whose inevitable tendency is to make the agent the creature, and finally
the victim. The gripe which, in a moral sense, and with a slight reference to character, Rivers
had upon the landlord, was as tenacious as that of death--but with this difference, that it
was death prolonged through a fearful, and, though not a protracted, yet much too long a life.

The determination of Munro was made accordingly; and, following hard upon the flight of Lucy
from the rocks, we find the landlady quietly reinstated in her old home as if nothing had happened.
Munro did not, however, return to the place of refuge; he had no such confidence in circumstances
as Rivers; his fears had grown active in due proportion with his increase of years; and, with
the increased familiarity with crime, had grown up in his mind a corresponding doubt of all
persons, and an active suspicion which trusted nothing. His abode in all this time was uncertain:
he now slept at one deserted lodge, and now at another; now in the disguise of one and now
of another character; now on horseback, now on foot--but in no two situations taking the same
feature or disguise. In the night-time he sometimes adventured, though with great caution,
to the village, and made inquiries. On all hands, he heard of nothing but the preparations
making against the clan of which he was certainly one of the prominent heads. The state was
roused into activity, and a proclamation of the governor, offering a high reward for the discovery
and detention of any persons having a hand in the murder of the guard, was on one occasion
put into his own hands. All these things made caution necessary, and, though venturing still
very considerably at times, he was yet seldom entirely off his guard.

Rivers kept close in the cover of his den. That den had numberless ramifications, however,
known only to himself; and his calm indifference was the result of a conviction that it would
require two hundred men, properly instructed, and all at the same moment, to trace him through
its many sinuosities. He too, sometimes, carefully disguised, penetrated into the village,
but never much in the sight of those who were not bound to him by a common danger. To Lucy
he did not appear on such occasions, though he did to the old lady, and even at the family
fireside.

Lucy, indeed, had eyes for few objects, and thoughts but for one. She sat as one stupified
with danger, yet sufficiently conscious of it as to be conscious of nothing besides. She was
bewildered with the throng of horrible circumstances which had been so crowded on her mind
and memory in so brief a space of time. At one moment she blamed her own weakness in suffering
the trial of Ralph to progress to a consummation which she shuddered to reflect upon. Had she
a right to withhold her testimony--testimony so important to the life and the honor of one
person, because others might suffer in consequence--those others the real criminals, and he
the innocent victim? and loving him as she did, and hating or fearing his enemies? Had she
performed her duty in suffering his case to go to judgment? and such a judgment--so horrible
a doom! Should she now suffer it to go to its dreadful execution, when a word from her would
stay the hand of the officer, and save the life of the condemned? But would such be its effect?
What credence would be given now to one who, in the hall of justice, had sunk down like a criminal
herself--withholding the truth, and contradicting every word of her utterance? To whom, then,
could she apply? who would hear her plea, even though she boldly narrated all the truth, in
behalf of the prisoner? She maddened as she thought on all these difficulties; her blood grew
fevered, a thick haze overspread her senses, and she raved at last in the most wild delirium.

Some days went by in her unconsciousness, and when she at length grew calm--when the fever
of her mind had somewhat subsided--she opened her eyes and found, to her great surprise, her
uncle sitting beside her couch. It was midnight; and this was the hour he had usually chosen
when making his visits to his family. In these stolen moments, his attendance was chiefly given
to that hapless orphan, whose present sufferings he well knew were in great part attributable
to himself.

The thought smote him, for, in reference to her, all feeling had not yet departed from his
soul. There was still a lurking sensibility--a lingering weakness of humanity--one of those
pledges which nature gives of her old affiliation, and which she never entirely takes away
from the human heart. There are still some strings, feeble and wanting in energy though they
be, which bind even the most reckless outcast in some little particular to humanity; and, however
time, and the world's variety of circumstance, may have worn them and impaired their firm hold,
they still sometimes, at unlooked-for hours, regrapple the long-rebellious subject, and make
themselves felt and understood as in the first moments of their creation.

Such now was their resumed sway with Munro. While his niece--the young, the beautiful, the
virtuous--so endowed by nature--so improved by education--so full of those fine graces, beyond
the reach of any art--lay before him insensible--her fine mind spent in incoherent ravings--her
gentle form racked with convulsive shudderings--the still, small, monitorial voice, unheard
so long, spoke out to him in terrible rebukings. He felt in those moments how deeply he had
been a criminal; how much, not of his own, he had appropriated to himself and sacrificed; and
how sacred a trust he had abused, in the person of the delicate creature before him, by a determination
the most cruel and perhaps unnecessary.

Days had elapsed in her delirium; and such were his newly-awakened feelings, that each night
brought him, though at considerable risk, an attendant by her bed. His hand administered--his
eyes watched over; and, in the new duties of the parent, he acquired a new feeling of duty
and domestic love, the pleasures of which he had never felt before. But she grew conscious
at last, and her restoration relieved his mind of one apprehension which had sorely troubled
it. Her condition, during her illness, was freely described to her. But she thought not of
herself--she had no thought for any other than the one for whom thoughts and prayers promised
now to avail but little.

"Uncle--" she spoke at last--"you are here, and I rejoice to see you. I have much to say, much
to beg at your hands: oh, let me not beg in vain! Let me not find you stubborn to that which
may not make me happy--I say not that, for happy I never look to be again--but make me as much
so as human power can make me. When--" and she spoke hurriedly, while a strong and aguish shiver
went through her whole frame--"when is it said that he must die?"

He knew perfectly of whom she spoke, but felt reluctant to indulge her mind in a reference
to the subject which had already exercised so large an influence over it. But he knew little
of the distempered heart, and fell into an error by no means uncommon with society. She soon
convinced him of this, when his prolonged silence left it doubtful whether he contemplated
an answer.

"Why are you silent? do you fear to speak? Have no fears now. We have no time for fear. We
must be active--ready--bold. Feel my hand: it trembles no longer. I am no longer a weak-hearted
woman."

He again doubted her sanity, and spoke to her soothingly, seeking to divert her mind to indifferent
subjects; but she smiled on the endeavor, which she readily understood, and putting aside her
aunt, who began to prattle in a like strain, and with a like object, she again addressed her uncle.

"Doubt me not, uncle: I rave no longer. I am now calm--calm as it is possible for me to be,
having such a sorrow as mine struggling at my heart. Why should I hide it from you? It will
not be hidden. I love him--love him as woman never loved man before--with a soul and spirit
all unreservedly his, and with no thought in which he is not always the principal. I know that
he loves another; I know that the passion which I feel I must feel and cherish alone; that
it must burn itself away, though it burn away its dwelling-place. I am resigned to such a fate;
but I am not prepared for more. I can not bear that he too should die--and such a death! He
must not die--he must not die, my uncle; though we save him--ay, save him--for another."

"Shame on you, my daughter!--how can you confess so much? Think on your sex--you are a woman--think
on your youth!" Such was the somewhat strongly-worded rebuke of the old lady.

"I have thought on all--on everything. I feel all that you have said, and the thought and the
feeling have been my madness. I must speak, or I shall again go mad. I am not the tame and
cold creature that the world calls woman. I have been differently made. I can love in the world's
despite. I can feel through the world's freeze. I can dare all, when my soul is in it, though
the world sneer in scorn and contempt. But what I have said, is said to you. I would not--no,
not for worlds, that he should know I said it--not for worlds!" and her cheeks were tinged
slightly, while her head rested for a single instant upon the pillow.

"But all this is nothing!" she started up, and again addressed herself to the landlord. "Speak,
uncle! tell me, is there yet time--yet time to save him I When is it they say he must die?"

"On Friday next, at noon."

"And this--?"

"Is Monday."

"He must not die--no, not die, then, my uncle! You must save him--you must save him! You have
been the cause of his doom: you must preserve him from its execution. You owe it him as a debt--you
owe it me--you owe it to yourself. Believe not, my uncle, that there is no other day than this--no
other world--no other penalties than belong to this. You read no bible, but you have a thought
which must tell you that there are worlds--there is a life yet to come. I know you can not
doubt--you must not doubt--you must believe. Have a fear of its punishments, have a hope of
its rewards, and listen to my prayer. You must save Ralph Colleton; ask me not how--talk not
of difficulties. You must save him--you must--you must!"

"Why, you forget, Lucy, my dear child--you forget that I too am in danger. This is midnight:
it is only at this hour that I can steal into the village; and how, and in what manner, shall
I be able to do as you require?"

"Oh, man!--man!--forgive me, dear uncle, I would not vex you! But if there were gold in that
dungeon--broad bars of gold, or shining silver, or a prize that would make you rich, would
you ask me the how and the where? Would that clumsy block, and those slight bars, and that
dull jailer, be an obstacle that would keep you back? Would you need a poor girl like me to
tell you that the blocks might be pierced--that the bars might be broken--that the jailer might
be won to the mercy which would save? You have strength--you have skill--you have the capacity,
the power--there is but one thing wanting to my prayer--the will, the disposition!"

"You do me wrong, Lucy--great wrong, believe me. I feel for this young man, and the thought
has been no less painful to me than to you, that my agency has contributed in great measure
to his danger. But what if I were to have the will, as you say--what if I went forward to the
jailer and offered a bribe--would not the bribe which the state has offered for my arrest be
a greater attraction than any in my gift? To scale the walls and break the bars, or in any
forcible manner to effect the purpose, I must have confederates, and in whom could I venture
to confide? The few to whom I could intrust such a design are like myself, afraid to adventure
or be seen, and such a design would be defeated by Rivers himself, who so much hates the youth,
and is bent on his destruction."

"Speak not of him--say to him nothing--you must do it yourself if you do it all. You can effect
much if you seriously determine. You can design, and execute all, and find ready and able assistance,
if you once willingly set about it. I am not able to advise, nor will you need my counsel.
Assure me that you will make the effort--that you will put your whole heart in it--and I have
no fears--I feel confident of his escape."

"You think too highly of my ability in this respect. There was a time, Lucy, when such a design
had not been so desperate, but now--"

"Oh, not so desperate now, uncle, uncle--I could not live--not a moment--were he to perish
in that dreadful manner. Have I no claim upon your mercy--will you not do for me what you would
do for money--what you have done at the bidding of that dreadful wretch, Rivers? Nay, look
not away, I know it all--I know that you had the dagger of Colleton--that you put it into the
hands of the wretch who struck the man--that you saw him strike--that you strove not to stop
his hand. Fear you not I shall reveal it? Fear you not?--but I will not--I can not! Yet this
should be enough to make you strive in this service. Heard you not, too, when lie spoke and
stopped my evidence, knowing that my word would have saved him--rather than see me brought
to the dreadful trial of telling what I knew of that night--that awful night--when you both
sought his life? Oh, I could love him for this--for this one thing--were there nothing else
besides worthy of my love!"

The incident to which she referred had not been unregarded by the individual she addressed,
and while she spoke, his looks assumed a meditative expression, and he replied as in soliloquy,
and in broken sentences:--

"Could I pass to the jail unperceived--gain admittance--then--but who would grapple with the
jailer--how manage that?--let me see--but no--no--that is impossible!"

"What is impossible?--nothing is impossible in this work, if you will but try. Do not hesitate,
dear uncle--it will look easier if you will reflect upon it. You will see many ways of bringing
it about. You can get aid if you want it. There's the pedler, who is quite willing, and Chub--Chub
will do much, if you can only find him out."

The landlord smiled as she named these two accessaries "Bunce--why, what could the fellow do?--he's
not the man for such service; now Chub might be of value, if he'd only follow orders: but that
he won't do. I don't see how we're to work it, Lucy--it looks more difficult the more I think
on it."

"Oh, if it's only difficult--if it's not impossible--it will be done. Do not shrink back, uncle;
do not scruple. The youth has done you no wrong--you have done him much. You have brought him
where he is, he would have been safe otherwise You must save him. Save him, uncle--and hear
me as I promise. You may then do with me as you please. From that moment I am your slave, and
then, if it must be so--if you will then require it, I am willing then to become his slave
too--him whom you have served so faithfully and so unhappily for so long a season."

"Of whom speak you?"

"Guy Rivers! yes--I shall then obey you, though the funeral come with the bridal."

"Lucy!"

"It is true. I hope not to survive it. It will be a worse destiny to me than even the felon
death to the youth whom I would save. Do with me as you please then, but let him not perish.
Rescue him from the doom you have brought upon him--and oh, my uncle, in that other world--if
there we meet--the one good deed shall atone, in the thought of my poor father, for the other
most dreadful sacrifice to which his daughter now resigns herself."

The stern man was touched. He trembled, and his lips quivered convulsively as he took her hand
into his own. Recovering himself, in a firm tone, as solemn as that which she had preserved
throughout the dialogue, he replied--

"Hear me, Lucy, and believe what I assure you. I will try to save this youth. I will do what
I can, my poor child, to redeem the trust of your father. I have been no father to you heretofore,
not much of one, at least, but it is not too late, and I will atone. I will do my best for
Colleton--the thing is full of difficulty and danger, but I will try to save him. All this,
however, must be unknown--not a word to anybody; and Rivers must not see you happy, or he will
suspect. Better not be seen--still keep to your chamber, and rest assured that all will be
done, in my power, for the rescue of the youth."

"Oh, now you are, indeed, my father--yet--uncle, shall I see you at the time when it is to
be done? Tell me at what moment you seek his deliverance, that I may be upon my knees. Yet
say not to him that I have done anything or said anything which has led to your endeavors.
He will not think so well of me if you do; and, though he may not love, I would have him think
always of me as if--as if I were a woman."

She was overcome with exertion, and in the very revival of her hope, her strength was exhausted;
but she had sunk into a sweet sleep ere her uncle left the apartment.

CHAPTER XXXV.

NEW PARTIES ON THE STAGE.

A day more had elapsed, and the bustle in the little village was increased by the arrival of
other travellers. A new light came to the dungeon of Ralph Colleton, in the persons of his
uncle and cousin Edith, whom his letters, at his first arrest, had apprized of his situation.
They knew that situation only in part, however; and the first intimation of his doom was that
which he himself gave them.

The meeting was full of a painful pleasure. The youth himself was firm--muscle and mind all
over; but deeply did his uncle reproach himself for his precipitation and sternness, and the
grief of Edith, like all deep grief, was dumb, and had no expression. There was but the sign
of wo--of wo inexpressible--in the ashy lip, the glazed, the tearless and half-wandering eye,
and the convulsive shiver, that at intervals shook her whole frame, like strong and sudden
gusts among the foliage. The youth, if he had any at such an hour, spared his reproaches. He
narrated in plain and unexaggerated language, as if engaged in the merest narration of commonplace,
all the circumstances of his trial. He pointed out the difficulties of his situation, to his
mind insuperable, and strove to prepare the minds of those who heard, for the final and saddest
trial of all, even as his own mind was prepared. In that fearful work of preparation, the spirit
of love could acknowledge no restraining influence, and never was embrace more fond than that
of Ralph and the maiden. Much of his uncle's consolation was found in the better disposition
which he now entertained, though at too late a day, in favor of their passion. He would now
willingly consent to all.

"Had you not been so precipitate, Ralph--" he said, "had you not been so proud--had you thought
at all, or given me time for thought, all this trial had been spared us. Was I not irritated
by other things when I spoke to you unkindly? You knew not how much I had been chafed--you
should not have been so hasty."

"No more of this, uncle, I pray you. I was wrong and rash, and I blame you not. I have nobody
but myself to reproach. Speak not of the matter; but, as the best preparation for all that
is to come, let your thought banish me rather from contemplation. Why should the memory of
so fair a creature as this be haunted by a story such as mine? Why should she behold, in her
mind's eye, for ever, the picture of my dying agonies--the accursed scaffold--the--" and the
emotion of his soul, at the subject of his own contemplation, choked him in his utterance,
while Edith, half-fainting in his arms, prayed his forbearance.

"Speak not thus--not of this, Ralph, if you would not have me perish. I am fearfully sick now,
my head swims, and all is commotion at my heart. Not water--not water--give me hope--consolation.
Tell me that there is still some chance--some little prospect--that some noble people are striving
in your cause--that somebody is gone in search of evidence--in search of hope. Is there no
circumstance which may avail? Said you not something of--did you not tell me of a person who
could say for you that which would have done much towards your escape? A woman, was it not--speak,
who is she--let me go to her--she will not refuse to tell me all, and do all, if she be a woman."

Ralph assured her in the gentlest manner of the hopelessness of any such application; and the
momentary dream which her own desires had conjured into a promise, as suddenly subsided, leaving
her to a full consciousness of her desolation. Her father at length found it necessary to abridge
the interview. Every moment of its protraction seemed still more to unsettle the understanding
of his daughter. She spoke wildly and confusedly, and in that thought of separation which the
doom of her lover perpetually forced upon her, she contemplated, in all its fearful extremities,
her own. She was borne away half delirious--the feeling of wo something blunted, however, by
the mental unconsciousness following its realization.

Private apartments were readily found them in the village, and having provided good attendance
for his daughter, Colonel Colleton set out, though almost entirely hopeless, to ascertain still
farther the particulars of the case, and to see what might be done in behalf of one of whose
innocence he felt perfectly assured. He knew Ralph too well to suspect him of falsehood; and
the clear narrative which he had given, and the manly and unhesitating account of all particulars
having any bearing on the case which had fallen from his lips, he knew, from all his previous
high-mindedness of character, might safely be relied on. Assured of this himself, he deemed
it not improbable that something might undergo development, in a course of active inquiry,
which might tend to the creation of a like conviction in the minds of those in whom rested
the control of life and judgment.

His first visit was to the lawyer, from whom, however, he could procure nothing, besides being
compelled, without possibility of escape, to listen to a long string of reproaches against
his nephew.

"I could, and would have saved him, Colonel Colleton, if the power were in mortal," was the
self-sufficient speech of the little man; "but he would not--he broke in upon me when the very
threshold was to be passed, and just as I was upon it. Things were in a fair train, and all
might have gone well but for his boyish interruption. I would have come over the jury with
a settler. I would have made out a case, sir, for their consideration, which every man of them
would have believed he himself saw. I would have shown your nephew, sir, riding down the narrow
trace, like a peaceable gentleman; anon, sir, you should have seen Forrester coming along full
tilt after him. Forrester should have cried out with a whoop and a right royal oath; then Mr.
Colleton would have heard him, and turned round to receive him. But Forrester is drunk, you
know, and will not understand the young man's civilities. He blunders out a volley of curses
right and left, and bullies Master Colleton for a fight, which he declines. But Forrester is
too drunk to mind all that. Without more ado, he mounts the young gentleman and is about to
pluck out his eyes, when he feels the dirk in his ribs, and then they cut loose. He gets the
dirk from Master Colleton, and makes at him; but he picks up a hatchet that happens to be lying
about, and drives at his head, and down drops Forrester, as he ought to, dead as a door-nail."

"Good heavens! and why did you not bring these facts forward? They surely could not have condemned
him under these circumstances."

"Bring them forward! To be sure, I would have done so but, as I tell you, just when on the
threshold, at the very entrance into the transaction, up pops this hasty young fellow--I'm
sorry to call your nephew so, Colonel Colleton--but the fact is, he owes his situation entirely
to himself. I would have saved him, but he was obstinately bent on not being saved; and just
as I commenced the affair, up he pops and tells me, before all the people, that I know nothing
about it. A pretty joke, indeed. I know nothing about it, and it my business to know all about
it. Sir, it ruined him. I saw, from that moment, how the cat would jump. I pitied the poor
fellow, but what more could I do?"

"But it is not too late--we can memorialize the governor, we can put these facts in form, and
by duly showing them with the accompanying proofs, we can obtain a new trial--a respite."

"Can't be done now--it's too late. Had I been let alone--had not the youth come between me
and my duty--I would have saved him, sir, as under God, I have saved hundreds before. But it's
too late now."

"Oh, surely not too late! with the facts that you mention, if you will give me the names of
the witnesses furnishing them, so that I can obtain their affidavits--"

"Witnesses!--what witnesses?"

"Why, did you not tell me of the manner in which Forrester assaulted my nephew, and forced
upon him what he did as matter of self-defense? Where is the proof of this?"

"Oh, proof! Why, you did not think that was the true state of the case--that was only the case
I was to present to the jury."

"And there is, then, no evidence for what you have said?"

"Not a tittle, sir. Evidence is scarcely necessary in a case like this, sir, where the state
proves more than you can possibly disprove. Your only hope, sir is to present a plausible conjecture
to the jury. Just set their fancies to work, and they have a taste most perfectly dramatic.
What you leave undone, they will do. Where you exhibit a blank, they will supply the words
wanting. Only set them on trail, and they'll tree the 'possum. They are noble hands at it,
and, as I now live and talk to you, sir, not one of them who heard the plausible story which
I would have made out, but would have discovered more common sense and reason in it than in
all the evidence you could possibly have given them. Because, you see, I'd have given them
a reason for everything. Look, how I should have made out the story. Mr. Colleton and Forrester
are excellent friends, and both agree to travel together. Well, they're to meet at the forks
by midnight. In the meantime, Forrester goes to see his sweetheart, Kate Allen--a smart girl,
by the way, colonel, and well to look on. Parting's a very uncomfortable thing, now, and they
don't altogether like it. Kate cries, and Forrester storms. Well, must come comes at last.
They kiss, and are off--different ways. Well, grief's but a dry companion, and to get rid of
him, Forrester takes a drink; still grief holds on, and then he takes another and another,
until grief gets off at last, but not before taking with him full half, and not the worst half
either, of the poor fellow's senses. What then? Why, then he swaggers and swears at everything,
and particularly at your nephew, who, you see, not knowing his condition, swears at him for
keeping him waiting--"

"Ralph Colleton never swears, Mr. Pippin," said the colonel, grimly.

"Well, well, if he didn't swear then, he might very well have sworn, and I'll be sworn but
he did on that occasion; and it was very pardonable too. Well, he swears at the drunken man,
not knowing his condition, and the drunken man rolls and reels like a rowdy, and gives it to
him back, and then they get at it. Your nephew, who is a stout colt, buffets him well for a
time, but Forrester, who is a mighty, powerful built fellow, he gets the better in the long
run, and both come down together in the road. Then Forrester, being uppermost, sticks his thumb
into Master Colleton's eye--the left eye, I think, it was--yes, the left eye it was--and the
next moment it would have been out, when your nephew, not liking it, whipped out his dirk,
and, 'fore Forrester could say Jack Robinson, it was playing about in his ribs; and, then comes
the hatchet part, just as I told it you before."

"And is none of this truth?"

"God bless your soul, no! Do you suppose, if it was the truth, it would have taken so long
a time in telling? I wouldn't have wasted the breath on it. The witnesses would have done that,
if it were true; but in this was the beauty of my art, and had I been permitted to say to the
jury what I've said to you, the young man would have been clear. It wouldn't have been gospel,
but where's the merit of a lawyer, if he can't go through a bog? This is one of the sweetest
and most delightful features of the profession. Sir, it is putting the wings of fiction to
the lifeless and otherwise immovable body of the fact."

Colonel Colleton was absolutely stunned by the fertility and volubility of the speaker, and
after listening for some time longer, as long as it was possible to procure from him anything
which might be of service, he took his departure, bending his way next to the wigwam, in which,
for the time being, the pedler had taken up his abode. It will not be necessary that we should
go with him there, as it is not probable that anything materially serving his purpose or ours
will be adduced from the narrative of Bunce. In the meantime, we will turn our attention to
a personage, whose progress must correspond, in all respects, with that of our narrative.

Guy Rivers had not been unapprized of the presence of the late comers at the village. He had
his agents at work, who marked the progress of things, and conveyed their intelligence to him
with no qualified fidelity. The arrival of Colonel Colleton and his daughter had been made
known to him within a few hours after its occurrence, and the feelings of the outlaw were of
a nature the most complex and contradictory. Secure within his den, the intricacies of which
were scarcely known to any but himself, he did not study to restrain those emotions which had
prompted him to so much unjustifiable outrage. With no eye to mark his actions or to note his
speech, the guardian watchfulness which had secreted so much, in his association with others,
was taken off; and we see much of that heart and those wild principles of its government, the
mysteries of which contain so much that it is terrible to see. Slowly, and for a long time
after the receipt of the above-mentioned intelligence, he strode up and down the narrow cell
of his retreat; all passions at sway and contending for the mastery--sudden action and incoherent
utterance occasionally diversifying the otherwise monotonous movements of his person. At one
moment, he would clinch his hands with violence together, while an angry malediction would
escape through his knitted teeth--at another, a demoniac smile of triumph, and a fierce laugh
of gratified malignity would ring through the apartment, coming back upon him in an echo, which
would again restore him to consciousness, and bring back the silence so momentarily banished.

"They are here; they have come to witness his degradation--to grace my triumph--to feel it,
and understand my revenge. We will see if the proud beauty knows me now--if she yet continues
to discard and to disdain me. I have her now upon my own terms. She will not refuse; I am sure
of her; I shall conquer her proud heart; I will lead her in chains, the heaviest chains of
all--the chains of a dreadful necessity. He must die else! I will howl it in her ears with
the voice of the wolf; I will paint it before her eyes with a finger dipped in blood and in
darkness! She shall see him carried to the gallows; I shall make her note the halter about
his neck--that neck, which, in her young thought, her arms were to have encircled only; nor
shall she shut her eyes upon the last scene, nor close her ears to the last groan of my victim!
She shall see and hear all, or comply with all that I demand! It must be done: but how? How
shall I see her? how obtain her presence? how command her attention? Pshaw! shall a few beardless
soldiers keep me back, and baffle me in this? Shall I dread the shadow now, and shrink back
when the sun shines out that makes it? I will not fear. I will see her. I will bid defiance
to them all! She shall know my power, and upon one condition only will I use it to save him.
She will not dare to refuse the condition; she will consent; she will at last be mine: and
for this I will do so much--go so far--ay, save him whom I would yet be so delighted to destroy!"

Night came; and in a small apartment of one of the lowliest dwellings of Chestatee, Edith and
her father sat in the deepest melancholy, conjuring up perpetually in their minds those images
of sorrow so natural to their present situation. It was somewhat late, and they had just returned
from an evening visit to the dungeon of Ralph Colleton. The mind of the youth was in far better
condition than theirs, and his chief employment had been in preparing them for a similar feeling
of resignation with himself. He had succeeded but indifferently. They strove to appear firm,
in order that he should not be less so than they found him; but the effort was very perceptible,
and the recoil of their dammed-up emotions was only so much more fearful and overpowering.
The strength of Edith had been severely tried, and her head now rested upon the bosom of her
father, whose arms were required for her support, in a state of feebleness and exhaustion,
leaving it doubtful, at moments, whether the vital principle had not itself utterly departed.

At this period the door opened, and a stranger stood abruptly before them. His manner was sufficiently
imposing, though his dress was that of the wandering countryman, savoring of the jockey, and
not much unlike that frequently worn by such wayfarers as the stagedriver and carrier of the
mails. He had on an overcoat made of buckskin, an article of the Indian habit; a deep fringe
of the same material hung suspended from two heavy capes that depended from the shoulder. His
pantaloons were made of buckskin also; a foxskin cap rested slightly upon his head, rather
more upon one side than the other; while a whip of huge dimensions occupied one of his hands.
Whiskers, of a bushy form and most luxuriant growth, half-obscured his cheek, and the mustaches
were sufficiently small to lead to the inference that the wearer had only recently decided
to suffer the region to grow wild. A black-silk handkerchief, wrapped loosely about his neck,
completed the general outline; and the tout ensemble indicated one of those dashing blades,
so frequently to be encountered in the southern country, who, despising the humdrum monotony
of regular life, are ready for adventure--lads of the turf, the muster-ground, the general
affray--the men who can whip their weight in wild-cats--whose general rule it is to knock down
and drag out.

Though startling at first to both father and daughter, the manner of the intruder was such
as to forbid any further alarm than was incidental to his first abrupt appearance. His conduct
was respectful and distant--closely observant of the proprieties in his address, and so studiously
guarded as to satisfy them, at the very outset, that nothing improper was intended. Still,
his entrance without any intimation was sufficiently objectionable to occasion a hasty demand
from Colonel Colleton as to the meaning of his intrusion.

"None, sir, is intended, which may not be atoned for," was the reply. "I had reason to believe,
Colonel Colleton, that the present melancholy circumstances of your family were such as might
excuse an intrusion which may have the effect of making them less so; which, indeed, may go
far toward the prevention of that painful event which you now contemplate as certain."

The words were electrical in their effect upon both father and daughter. The former rose from
his chair, and motioned the stranger to be seated; while the daughter, rapidly rising also,
with an emotion which gave new life to her form, inquired breathlessly--

"Speak, sir! say--how!"--and she lingered and listened with figure bent sensibly forward, and
hand uplifted and motionless, for reply. The person addressed smiled with visible effort, while
slight shades of gloom, like the thin clouds fleeting over the sky at noonday, obscured at
intervals the otherwise subdued and even expression of his countenance. He looked at the maiden
while speaking, but his words were addressed to her father.

"I need not tell you, sir, that the hopes of your nephew are gone. There is no single chance
upon which he can rest a doubt whereby his safety may be secured. The doom is pronounced, the
day is assigned, and the executioner is ready."

"Is your purpose insult, sir, that you tell us this?" was the rather fierce inquiry of the colonel.

"Calmly, sir," was the response, in a manner corresponding well with the nature of his words;
"my purpose, I have already said, is to bring, or at least to offer, relief; to indicate a
course which may result in the safety of the young man whose life is now at hazard; and to
contribute, myself, to the object which I propose."

"Go on--go on, sir, if you please, but spare all unnecessary reference to his situation," said
the colonel, as a significant pressure of his arm on the part of his daughter motioned him
to patience. The stranger proceeded:--

"My object in dwelling upon the youth's situation was, if possible, by showing its utter hopelessness
in every other respect, to induce you the more willingly to hear what I had to offer, and to
comply with certain conditions which must be preparatory to any development upon my part."

"There is something strangely mysterious in this. I am willing to do anything and everything,
in reason and without dishonor, for the safety of my nephew; the more particularly as I believe
him altogether innocent of the crime laid to his charge. More than this I dare not; and I shall
not be willing to yield to unknown conditions, prescribed by a stranger, whatever be the object:
but speak out at once, sir, and keep us no longer in suspense. In the meantime, retire, Edith,
my child; we shall best transact this business in your absence. You will feel too acutely the
consideration of this subject to listen to it in discussion. Go, my daughter."

But the stranger interposed, with a manner not to be questioned:--

"Let her remain, Colonel Colleton; it is, indeed, only to her that I can reveal the mode and
the conditions of the assistance which I am to offer. This was the preliminary condition of
which I spoke. To her alone can my secret be revealed, and my conference must be entirely with
her."

"But, sir, this is so strange--so unusual--so improper."

"True, Colonel Colleton; in the ordinary concerns, the everyday offices of society, it would
be strange, unusual, and improper; but these are not times, and this is not a region of the
world, in which the common forms are to be insisted upon. You forget, sir, that you are in
the wild abiding-place of men scarcely less wild--with natures as stubborn as the rocks, and
with manners as uncouth and rugged as the woodland growth which surrounds us. I know as well
as yourself that my demand is unusual; but such is my situation--such, indeed, the necessities
of the whole case, that there is no alternative. I am persuaded that your nephew can be saved;
I am willing to make an effort for that purpose, and my conditions are to be complied with:
one of them you have heard--it is for your daughter to hear the rest."

The colonel still hesitated. He was very tenacious of those forms of society, and of intercourse
between the sexes, which are rigidly insisted upon in the South, and his reluctance was manifest.
While he yet hesitated, the stranger again spoke:

"The condition which I have proposed, sir, is unavoidable, but I ask you not to remove from
hearing: the adjoining room is not so remote but that you can hear any appeal which your daughter
may be pleased to make. Her call would reach your ears without effort. My own security depends,
not less than that of your nephew, upon your compliance with the condition under which only
will I undertake to save him."

These suggestions prevailed. Suspecting the stranger to be one whose evidence would point to
the true criminal, himself an offender, he at length assented to the arrangement, and, after
a few minutes' further dialogue, he left the room. As he retired, the stranger carefully locked
the door, a movement which somewhat alarmed the maiden; but the respectful manner with which
he approached her, and her own curiosity not less than interest in the progress of the event,
kept her from the exhibition of any apprehensions.

The stranger drew nigh her. His glances, though still respectful, were fixed, long and searchingly,
upon her face. He seemed to study all its features, comparing them, as it would seem, with
his own memories. At length, as with a sense of maidenly propriety, she sternly turned away,
he addressed her:--

"Miss Colleton has forgotten me, it appears, though I have some claim to be an old acquaintance.
I, at least, have a better memory for my friends--I have not forgotten her."

Edith looked up in astonishment, but there was no recognition in her glance. A feeling of mortified
pride might have been detected in the expression of his countenance, as, with a tone of calm
unconsciousness, she replied--

"You are certainly unremembered, if ever known, by me, sir. I am truly sorry to have forgotten
one who styles himself my friend."

"Who was--who is--or, rather, who is now willing again to be your friend, Miss Colleton," was
the immediate reply.

"Yes, and so I will gladly call you, sir, if you succeed in what you have promised."

"I have yet promised nothing, Miss Colleton."

"True, true! but you say you have the power, and surely would not withhold it at such a time.
Oh, speak, sir! tell me how you can serve us all, and receive my blessings and my thanks for ever."

"The reward is great--very great--but not greater--perhaps not as great, as I may demand for
my services. But we should not be ignorant of one another in such an affair, and at such a
time as this. Is it true, then, that Miss Colleton has no memory which, at this moment, may
spare me from the utterance of a name, which perhaps she herself would not be altogether willing
to hear, and which it is not my policy to have uttered by any lips, and far less by my own?
Think--remember--lady, and let me be silent still on that one subject. Let no feeling of pride
influence the rejection of a remembrance which perhaps carries with it but few pleasant reflections."

