OR, A GOOD RULE, WITH A FLAW IN IT.

A FABLE.

A crab boasted that he was very cunning in setting traps. He used to bury himself in the mud,
just under a nice morsel of a clam or an oyster; and when the silly fish came to make a dinner
of this dainty morsel, he would catch him in his claws, and eat him.

He pretended to have a good deal of honor, though. He was quite a pious crab, according to
his own account of himself. When he had caught a fish by his cunning, he used to say, "Poor
fellow! it is his own fault, not mine. He ought to have kept out of the trap. If one does not
know enough to keep away from my claws, he ought to be caught. Poor fellow! I'm sorry for him;
but it can't be helped."

That is the way he took to quiet his own conscience, and to excuse himself to others, when
they complained of his deceitful conduct.

An old fox, having heard of our crab's mode of catching fish, and what he said about it, determined
to set a trap for the crab. He did so. He went down to the sea shore, and thrust his long,
bushy tail into the water. The crab, thinking he had got another dinner by his wit, seized
the fox's tail with his claws. But the fox, giving a sudden spring, brought the crab out of
the water, and prepared to make a meal of him at his leisure.

The crab complained, and accused the fox of being a deceitful fellow, and a murderer to boot.

"But," said Reynard, "I have only acted according to your own rule. If one does not know enough
to keep away from a fox's tail, he ought to be caught. It is the same thing as if he caught
himself."

"Ah!" said the crab, with a sigh, "I made that rule for others, and not for myself. I see now
that there is a flaw in it."

VIII.

THE GREEDY FLY.

A FABLE.

A fly, who was a great lover of sweet things, came across a cup full of molasses. He alighted
on the edge of the cup, and commenced sipping the molasses. It pleased him very much. He thought
he had never tasted anything so good before. At length, beginning to be surfeited with his
dinner, instead of flying away, and going about his business, until he should be hungry again,
he plunged into the molasses, so as to enjoy as much of it as he could.

Mistaken fly! He fared very much as you might suppose he would. He lost his life in the molasses.

MORAL.

That is just the way with thousands, who have fewer legs and ought to have more brains than
this fly. They are not content with a right and proper use of the good things which God has
given them. They plunge into a sea of pleasure, so as to enjoy as much of it as they possibly
can. But such a surfeit, instead of increasing the enjoyment, makes them miserable. They are
drowned in the midst of their pleasures.

IX.

CAROLINE AND HER KITTEN;

OR, THE PRETTY FACE, WITH A SCAR ON IT.

Caroline Rose was as happy a girl as ever you saw in your life--"as happy as the days are long"--so
her schoolmaster used to say. There were a great many good points in Caroline's character besides
this, that she was so generally cheerful--for I consider that a good point in any one's character.
She was kind to her companions, obedient, respectful, and affectionate to her parents; and
she seldom got into a fit of anger, or made a fool of herself by being sulky. One might have
met her frequently, and have supposed that he was well acquainted with her, and still have
loved her very much. Yet there was one thing in her character which every one, as soon as he
saw it, must dislike, and which sometimes, where she was well known, made her appear exceedingly
unlovely. Shall I tell you what that was? I will do so, so as to put you on your guard in that
particular point. That trait in her character was selfishness. If she ever got anything that
she liked, she used to act as if she were not willing that any one else should enjoy it with
her. Indeed, she appeared to be displeased, if one of her playmates, as was sometimes the case,
did take a great deal of pleasure in her pretty things.

Her father once brought her home a fine set of tea things, when she was quite young. Now, should
you not suppose that she would like to have all the girls in the neighborhood come and take
tea with her, and use her pretty new cups and saucers, and spoons and plates? Well, so should
I. But she showed a great deal of selfishness in this matter--so much, in fact, that she made
herself appear ridiculous, as well as unlovely. She was glad to have the girls come and look
at the tea things, and hear them say that they were very pretty. But that was as far as her
generosity went. She did not ask the girls to sit down and drink tea with her. Indeed, she
did not want her playmates to handle the cups and saucers. "I'm so afraid you will break them!"
said she. What a foolish and unreasonable girl!

It got to be a sort of proverb in the little village where Caroline resided, when any one was
not very generous, "She's almost as selfish as Carrie Rose," I don't know whether she knew
how she was regarded among boys and girls of her own age; and I don't know how much she cared
for their good will, if she did hear what they thought of her. But this I know, that I could
not bear to have such a character. I would rather give away half of all I am worth than to
give any reason to people to think I was mean and selfish. How I should dislike to have folks
say to themselves, and perhaps to others, when they meet me in the streets, "There goes a selfish
man--a man who is about as good as people will average, in other respects, but who is as small
as the little end of nothing, in his dealings." I think I would rather live on a crust of dry
bread than to get money by being close, and small, and mean, and selfish.

Caroline had a kitten given her, by her uncle, when she had grown up to be quite a large girl.
It was a beautiful creature. I think they called it a Maltese kitten. Nothing of the kind had
been seen in the place where Caroline lived, before Tommy, as she called her new pet, was brought
there. Well, of course she told all the little folks what a fine present her uncle had made
to her, and they were invited to come over and see the "dear little creature." She talked about
her kitten as if it were one of the wonders of the world, and as if she thought she was a young
queen, with the wealth of Cleopatra or Elizabeth, and that half the inhabitants of the globe
would certainly come and bow before her and her wonderful kitten.

When she met her young friends, she talked of nothing hardly but "my pretty Maltese kitten."

That is the way with selfish folks. They think and talk a great deal of what concerns them,
and you seldom hear them praise anything that belongs to their neighbors.

I shall never forget--if you will allow me to go a step or two out of my way for an illustration--I
shall never forget how, when I was a little school-boy, Mother Budd, a rather selfish old lady,
used to call us into her kitchen, to see the nice honey she had been taking out of her bee-hives.
"Isn't that fine?" she would ask; "eh, isn't that fine honey, boys?" Of course it was fine,
and we said so. "Well, you can go now," she would say, after that. As for letting us taste
of her fine honey, that she never thought of doing.

