A LITTLE JOURNEY IN THE WORLD

By Charles Dudley Warner

INTRODUCTORY SKETCH

The title naturally suggested for this story was "A Dead Soul," but it was discarded because
of the similarity to that of the famous novel by Nikolai Gogol--"Dead Souls"--though the motive
has nothing in common with that used by the Russian novelist. Gogol exposed an extensive fraud
practiced by the sale, in connection with lands, of the names of "serfs" (called souls) not
living, or "dead souls."

This story is an attempt to trace the demoralization in a woman's soul of certain well-known
influences in our existing social life. In no other way could certain phases of our society
be made to appear so distinctly as when reflected in the once pure mirror of a woman's soul.

The character of Margaret is the portrait of no one woman. But it was suggested by the career
of two women (among others less marked) who had begun life with the highest ideals, which had
been gradually eaten away and destroyed by "prosperous" marriages and association with unscrupulous
methods of acquiring money.

The deterioration was gradual. The women were in all outward conduct unchanged, the conventionalities
of life were maintained, the graces were not lost, the observances of the duties of charities
and of religion were even emphasized, but worldliness had eaten the heart out of them, and
they were "dead souls." The tragedy of the withered life was a thousand-fold enhanced by the
external show of prosperous respectability.

The story was first published (in 1888) in Harper's Monthly. During its progress--and it was
printed as soon as each installment was ready (a very poor plan)--I was in receipt of the usual
letters of sympathy, or protest, and advice. One sympathetic missive urged the removal of Margaret
to a neighboring city, where she could be saved by being brought under special Christian influences.
The transfer, even in a serial, was impossible, and she by her own choice lived the life she
had entered upon.

And yet, if the reader will pardon the confidence, pity intervened to shorten it. I do not
know how it is with other writers, but the persons that come about me in a little drama are
as real as those I meet in every-day life, and in this case I found it utterly impossible to
go on to what might have been the bitter, logical development of Margaret's career. Perhaps
it was as well. Perhaps the writer should have no despotic power over his creations, however
slight they are. He may profitably recall the dictum of a recent essayist that "there is no
limit to the mercy of God."

CHARLES DUDLEY WARNER.

Hartford, August 11, 1899.

A LITTLE JOURNEY IN THE WORLD

I

We were talking about the want of diversity in American life, the lack of salient characters.
It was not at a club. It was a spontaneous talk of people who happened to be together, and
who had fallen into an uncompelled habit of happening to be together. There might have been
a club for the study of the Want of Diversity in American Life. The members would have been
obliged to set apart a stated time for it, to attend as a duty, and to be in a mood to discuss
this topic at a set hour in the future. They would have mortgaged another precious portion
of the little time left us for individual life. It is a suggestive thought that at a given
hour all over the United States innumerable clubs might be considering the Want of Diversity
in American Life. Only in this way, according to our present methods, could one expect to accomplish
anything in regard to this foreign-felt want. It seems illogical that we could produce diversity
by all doing the same thing at the same time, but we know the value of congregate effort. It
seems to superficial observers that all Americans are born busy. It is not so. They are born
with a fear of not being busy; and if they are intelligent and in circumstances of leisure,
they have such a sense of their responsibility that they hasten to allot all their time into
portions, and leave no hour unprovided for. This is conscientiousness in women, and not restlessness.
There is a day for music, a day for painting, a day for the display of tea-gowns, a day for
Dante, a day for the Greek drama, a day for the Dumb Animals' Aid Society, a day for the Society
for the Propagation of Indians, and so on. When the year is over, the amount that has been
accomplished by this incessant activity can hardly be estimated. Individually it may not be
much. But consider where Chaucer would be but for the work of the Chaucer clubs, and what an
effect upon the universal progress of things is produced by the associate concentration upon
the poet of so many minds.

A cynic says that clubs and circles are for the accumulation of superficial information and
unloading it on others, without much individual absorption in anybody. This, like all cynicism,
contains only a half-truth, and simply means that the general diffusion of half-digested information
does not raise the general level of intelligence, which can only be raised to any purpose by
thorough self-culture, by assimilation, digestion, meditation. The busy bee is a favorite simile
with us, and we are apt to overlook the fact that the least important part of his example is
buzzing around. If the hive simply got together and buzzed, or even brought unrefined treacle
from some cyclopaedia, let us say, of treacle, there would be no honey added to the general store.

It occurred to some one in this talk at last to deny that there was this tiresome monotony
in American life. And this put a new face on the discussion. Why should there be, with every
race under the heavens represented here, and each one struggling to assert itself, and no homogeneity
as yet established even between the people of the oldest States? The theory is that democracy
levels, and that the anxious pursuit of a common object, money, tends to uniformity, and that
facility of communication spreads all over the land the same fashion in dress; and repeats
everywhere the same style of house, and that the public schools give all the children in the
United States the same superficial smartness. And there is a more serious notion, that in a
society without classes there is a sort of tyranny of public opinion which crushes out the
play of individual peculiarities, without which human intercourse is uninteresting. It is true
that a democracy is intolerant of variations from the general level, and that a new society
allows less latitude in eccentricities to its members than an old society.

But with all these allowances, it is also admitted that the difficulty the American novelist
has is in hitting upon what is universally accepted as characteristic of American life, so
various are the types in regions widely separated from each other, such different points of
view are had even in conventionalities, and conscience operates so variously on moral problems
in one community and another. It is as impossible for one section to impose upon another its
rules of taste and propriety in conduct--and taste is often as strong to determine conduct
as principle--as it is to make its literature acceptable to the other. If in the land of the
sun and the jasmine and the alligator and the fig, the literature of New England seems passionless
and timid in face of the ruling emotions of life, ought we not to thank Heaven for the diversity
of temperament as well as of climate which will in the long-run save us from that sameness
into which we are supposed to be drifting?

When I think of this vast country with any attention to local developments I am more impressed
with the unlikenesses than with the resemblances. And besides this, if one had the ability
to draw to the life a single individual in the most homogeneous community, the product would
be sufficiently startling. We cannot flatter ourselves, therefore, that under equal laws and
opportunities we have rubbed out the saliencies of human nature. At a distance the mass of
the Russian people seem as monotonous as their steppes and their commune villages, but the
Russian novelists find characters in this mass perfectly individualized, and, indeed, give
us the impression that all Russians are irregular polygons. Perhaps if our novelists looked
at individuals as intently, they might give the world the impression that social life here
is as unpleasant as it appears in the novels to be in Russia.

This is partly the substance of what was said one winter evening before the wood fire in the
library of a house in Brandon, one of the lesser New England cities. Like hundreds of residences
of its kind, it stood in the suburbs, amid forest-trees, commanding a view of city spires and
towers on the one hand, and on the other of a broken country of clustering trees and cottages,
rising towards a range of hills which showed purple and warm against the pale straw-color of
the winter sunsets. The charm of the situation was that the house was one of many comfortable
dwellings, each isolated, and yet near enough together to form a neighborhood; that is to say,
a body of neighbors who respected each other's privacy, and yet flowed together, on occasion,
without the least conventionality. And a real neighborhood, as our modern life is arranged,
is becoming more and more rare.

I am not sure that the talkers in this conversation expressed their real, final sentiments,
or that they should be held accountable for what they said. Nothing so surely kills the freedom
of talk as to have some matter-of-fact person instantly bring you to book for some impulsive
remark flashed out on the instant, instead of playing with it and tossing it about in a way
that shall expose its absurdity or show its value. Freedom is lost with too much responsibility
and seriousness, and the truth is more likely to be struck out in a lively play of assertion
and retort than when all the words and sentiments are weighed. A person very likely cannot
tell what he does think till his thoughts are exposed to the air, and it is the bright fallacies
and impulsive, rash ventures in conversation that are often most fruitful to talker and listeners.
The talk is always tame if no one dares anything. I have seen the most promising paradox come
to grief by a simple "Do you think so?" Nobody, I sometimes think, should be held accountable
for anything said in private conversation, the vivacity of which is in a tentative play about
the subject. And this is a sufficient reason why one should repudiate any private conversation
reported in the newspapers. It is bad enough to be held fast forever to what one writes and
prints, but to shackle a man with all his flashing utterances, which may be put into his mouth
by some imp in the air, is intolerable slavery. A man had better be silent if he can only say
today what he will stand by tomorrow, or if he may not launch into the general talk the whim
and fancy of the moment. Racy, entertaining talk is only exposed thought, and no one would
hold a man responsible for the thronging thoughts that contradict and displace each other in
his mind. Probably no one ever actually makes up his mind until he either acts or puts out
his conclusion beyond his recall. Why should one be debarred the privilege of pitching his
crude ideas into a conversation where they may have a chance of being precipitated?

I remember that Morgan said in this talk that there was too much diversity. "Almost every church
has trouble with it--the different social conditions."

An Englishman who was present pricked-up his ears at this, as if he expected to obtain a note
on the character of Dissenters. "I thought all the churches here were organized on social affinities?"
he inquired.

"Oh, no; it is a good deal a matter of vicinage. When there is a real-estate extension, a necessary
part of the plan is to build a church in the centre of it, in order to--"

"I declare, Page," said Mrs. Morgan, "you'll give Mr. Lyon a totally erroneous notion. Of course
there must be a church convenient to the worshipers in every district."

"That is just what I was saying, my dear: As the settlement is not drawn together on religious
grounds, but perhaps by purely worldly motives, the elements that meet in the church are apt
to be socially incongruous, such as cannot always be fused even by a church-kitchen and a church-parlor."

"Then it isn't the peculiarity of the church that has attracted to it worshipers who would
naturally come together, but the church is a neighborhood necessity?" still further inquired
Mr. Lyon.

"All is," I ventured to put in, "that churches grow up like schoolhouses, where they are wanted."

"I beg your pardon," said Mr. Morgan; "I'm talking about the kind of want that creates them.
If it's the same that builds a music hall, or a gymnasium, or a railway waiting-room, I've
nothing more to say."

"Is it your American idea, then, that a church ought to be formed only of people socially agreeable
together?" asked the Englishman.

"I have no American idea. I am only commenting on facts; but one of them is that it is the
most difficult thing in the world to reconcile religious association with the real or artificial
claims of social life."

"I don't think you try much," said Mrs. Morgan, who carried along her traditional religious
observance with grateful admiration of her husband.

Mr. Page Morgan had inherited money, and a certain advantageous position for observing life
and criticising it, humorously sometimes, and without any serious intention of disturbing it.
He had added to his fair fortune by marrying the daintily reared daughter of a cotton-spinner,
and he had enough to do in attending meetings of directors and looking out for his investments
to keep him from the operation of the State law regarding vagrants, and give greater social
weight to his opinions than if he had been compelled to work for his maintenance. The Page
Morgans had been a good deal abroad, and were none the worse Americans for having come in contact
with the knowledge that there are other peoples who are reasonably prosperous and happy without
any of our advantages.

"It seems to me," said Mr. Lyon, who was always in the conversational attitude of wanting to
know, "that you Americans are disturbed by the notion that religion ought to produce social
equality."

Mr. Lyon had the air of conveying the impression that this question was settled in England,
and that America was interesting on account of numerous experiments of this sort. This state
of mind was not offensive to his interlocutors, because they were accustomed to it in transatlantic
visitors. Indeed, there was nothing whatever offensive, and little defensive, in Mr. John Lyon.
What we liked in him, I think, was his simple acceptance of a position that required neither
explanation nor apology--a social condition that banished a sense of his own personality, and
left him perfectly free to be absolutely truthful. Though an eldest son and next in succession
to an earldom, he was still young. Fresh from Oxford and South Africa and Australia and British
Columbia he had come to study the States with a view of perfecting himself for his duties as
a legislator for the world when he should be called to the House of Peers. He did not treat
himself like an earl, whatever consciousness he may have had that his prospective rank made
it safe for him to flirt with the various forms of equality abroad in this generation.

"I don't know what Christianity is expected to produce," Mr. Morgan replied, in a meditative
way; "but I have an idea that the early Christians in their assemblies all knew each other,
having met elsewhere in social intercourse, or, if they were not acquainted, they lost sight
of distinctions in one paramount interest. But then I don't suppose they were exactly civilized."

"Were the Pilgrims and the Puritans?" asked Mrs. Fletcher, who now joined the talk, in which
she had been a most animated and stimulating listener, her deep gray eyes dancing with intellectual
pleasure.

"I should not like to answer 'no' to a descendant of the Mayflower. Yes, they were highly civilized.
And if we had adhered to their methods, we should have avoided a good deal of confusion. The
meeting-house, you remember, had a committee for seating people according to their quality.
They were very shrewd, but it had not occurred to them to give the best pews to the sitters
able to pay the most money for them. They escaped the perplexity of reconciling the mercantile
and the religious ideas."

"At any rate," said Mrs. Fletcher, "they got all sorts of people inside the same meeting-house."

"Yes, and made them feel they were all sorts; but in those, days they were not much disturbed
by that feeling."

"Do you mean to say," asked Mr. Lyon, "that in this country you have churches for the rich
and other churches for the poor?"

"Not at all. We have in the cities rich churches and poor churches, with prices of pews according
to the means of each sort, and the rich are always glad to have the poor come, and if they
do not give them the best seats, they equalize it by taking up a collection for them."

"Mr. Lyon," Mrs. Morgan interrupted, "you are getting a travesty of the whole thing. I don't
believe there is elsewhere in the world such a spirit of Christian charity as in our churches
of all sects."

"There is no doubt about the charity; but that doesn't seem to make the social machine run
any more smoothly in the church associations. I'm not sure but we shall have to go back to
the old idea of considering the churches places of worship, and not opportunities for sewing-societies,
and the cultivation of social equality."

"I found the idea in Rome," said Mr. Lyon, "that the United States is now the most promising
field for the spread and permanence of the Roman Catholic faith."

"How is that?" Mr. Fletcher asked, with a smile of Puritan incredulity.

"A high functionary at the Propaganda gave as a reason that the United States is the most democratic
country and the Roman Catholic is the most democratic religion, having this one notion that
all men, high or low, are equally sinners and equally in need of one thing only. And I must
say that in this country I don't find the question of social equality interfering much with
the work in their churches."

"That is because they are not trying to make this world any better, but only to prepare for
another," said Mrs. Fletcher.

"Now, we think that the nearer we approach the kingdom-of-heaven idea on earth, the better
off we shall be hereafter. Is that a modern idea?"

"It is an idea that is giving us a great deal of trouble. We've got into such a sophisticated
state that it seems easier to take care of the future than of the present."

"And it isn't a very bad doctrine that if you take care of the present, the future will take
care of itself," rejoined Mrs. Fletcher.

"Yes, I know," insisted Mr. Morgan; "it's the modern notion of accumulation and compensation--take
care of the pennies and the pounds will take care of themselves--the gospel of Benjamin Franklin."

"Ah," I said, looking up at the entrance of a newcomer, "you are just in time, Margaret, to
give the coup de grace, for it is evident by Mr. Morgan's reference, in his Bunker Hill position,
to Franklin, that he is getting out of powder."

The girl stood a moment, her slight figure framed in the doorway, while the company rose to
greet her, with a half-hesitating, half-inquiring look in her bright face which I had seen
in it a thousand times.

II

I remember that it came upon me with a sort of surprise at the moment that we had never thought
or spoken much of Margaret Debree as beautiful. We were so accustomed to her; we had known
her so long, we had known her always. We had never analyzed our admiration of her. She had
so many qualities that are better than beauty that we had not credited her with the more obvious
attraction. And perhaps she had just become visibly beautiful. It may be that there is an instant
in a girl's life corresponding to what the Puritans called conversion in the soul, when the
physical qualities, long maturing, suddenly glow in an effect which we call beauty. It cannot
be that women do not have a consciousness of it, perhaps of the instant of its advent. I remember
when I was a child that I used to think that a stick of peppermint candy must burn with a consciousness
of its own deliciousness.

Margaret was just turned twenty. As she paused there in the doorway her physical perfection
flashed upon me for the first time. Of course I do not mean perfection, for perfection has
no promise in it, rather the sad note of limit, and presently recession. In the rounded, exquisite
lines of her figure there was the promise of that ineffable fullness and delicacy of womanhood
which all the world raves about and destroys and mourns. It is not fulfilled always in the
most beautiful, and perhaps never except to the woman who loves passionately, and believes
she is loved with a devotion that exalts her body and soul above every other human being.

It is certain that Margaret's beauty was not classic. Her features were irregular even to piquancy.
The chin had strength; the mouth was sensitive and not too small; the shapely nose with thin
nostrils had an assertive quality that contradicted the impression of humility in the eyes
when downcast; the large gray eyes were uncommonly soft and clear, an appearance of alternate
tenderness and brilliancy as they were veiled or uncovered by the long lashes. They were gently
commanding eyes, and no doubt her most effective point. Her abundant hair, brown with a touch
of red in it in some lights, fell over her broad forehead in the fashion of the time. She had
a way of carrying her head, of throwing it back at times, that was not exactly imperious, and
conveyed the impression of spirit rather than of mere vivacity. These details seem to me all
inadequate and misleading, for the attraction of the face that made it interesting is still
undefined. I hesitate to say that there was a dimple near the corner of her mouth that revealed
itself when she smiled lest this shall seem mere prettiness, but it may have been the keynote
of her face. I only knew there was something about it that won the heart, as a too conscious
or assertive beauty never does. She may have been plain, and I may have seen the loveliness
of her nature, which I knew well, in features that gave less sign of it to strangers. Yet I
noticed that Mr. Lyon gave her a quick second glance, and his manner was instantly that of
deference, or at least attention, which he had shown to no other lady in the room. And the
whimsical idea came into my mind--we are all so warped by international possibilities--to observe
whether she did not walk like a countess (that is, as a countess ought to walk) as she advanced
to shake hands with my wife. It is so easy to turn life into a comedy!

Margaret's great-grandmother--no, it was her great-great-grandmother, but we have kept the
Revolutionary period so warm lately that it seems near--was a Newport belle, who married an
officer in the suite of Rochambeau what time the French defenders of liberty conquered the
women of Rhode Island. After the war was over, our officer resigned his love of glory for the
heart of one of the loveliest women and the care of the best plantation on the Island. I have
seen a miniature of her, which her lover wore at Yorktown, and which he always swore that Washington
coveted--a miniature painted by a wandering artist of the day, which entirely justifies the
French officer in his abandonment of the trade of a soldier. Such is man in his best estate.
A charming face can make him campaign and fight and slay like a demon, can make a coward of
him, can fill him with ambition to win the world, and can tame him into the domesticity of
a drawing-room cat. There is this noble capacity in man to respond to the divinest thing visible
to him in this world. Etienne Debree became, I believe, a very good citizen of the republic,
and in '93 used occasionally to shake his head with satisfaction to find that it was still
on his shoulders. I am not sure that he ever visited Mount Vernon, but after Washington's death
Debree's intimacy with our first President became a more and more important part of his life
and conversation. There is a pleasant tradition that Lafayette, when he was here in 1784, embraced
the young bride in the French manner, and that this salute was valued as a sort of heirloom
in the family.

I always thought that Margaret inherited her New England conscience from her great-great-grandmother,
and a certain esprit or gayety--that is, a sub-gayety which was never frivolity--from her French
ancestor. Her father and mother had died when she was ten years old, and she had been reared
by a maiden aunt, with whom she still lived. The combined fortunes of both required economy,
and after Margaret had passed her school course she added to their resources by teaching in
a public school. I remember that she taught history, following, I suppose, the American notion
that any one can teach history who has a text-book, just as he or she can teach literature
with the same help. But it happened that Margaret was a better teacher than many, because she
had not learned history in school, but in her father's well-selected library.

There was a little stir at Margaret's entrance; Mr. Lyon was introduced to her, and my wife,
with that subtle feeling for effect which women have, slightly changed the lights. Perhaps
Margaret's complexion or her black dress made this readjustment necessary to the harmony of
the room. Perhaps she felt the presence of a different temperament in the little circle.

I never can tell exactly what it is that guides her in regard to the influence of light and
color upon the intercourse of people, upon their conversation, making it take one cast or another.
Men are susceptible to these influences, but it is women alone who understand how to produce
them. And a woman who has not this subtle feeling always lacks charm, however intellectual
she may be; I always think of her as sitting in the glare of disenchanting sunlight as indifferent
to the exposure as a man would be. I know in a general way that a sunset light induces one
kind of talk and noonday light another, and I have learned that talk always brightens up with
the addition of a fresh crackling stick to the fire. I shouldn't have known how to change the
lights for Margaret, although I think I had as distinct an impression of her personality as
had my wife. There was nothing disturbing in it; indeed, I never saw her otherwise than serene,
even when her voice betrayed strong emotion. The quality that impressed me most, however, was
her sincerity, coupled with intellectual courage and clearness that had almost the effect of
brilliancy, though I never thought of her as a brilliant woman.

"What mischief have you been attempting, Mr. Morgan?" asked Margaret, as she took a chair near
him. "Were you trying to make Mr. Lyon comfortable by dragging in Bunker Hill?"

"No; that was Mr. Fairchild, in his capacity as host."

"Oh, I'm sure you needn't mind me," said Mr. Lyon, good-humoredly. "I landed in Boston, and
the first thing I went to see was the Monument. It struck me as so odd, you know, that the
Americans should begin life by celebrating their first defeat."

"That is our way," replied Margaret, quickly. "We have started on a new basis over here; we
win by losing. He who loses his life shall find it. If the red slayer thinks he slays he is
mistaken. You know the Southerners say that they surrendered at last simply because they got
tired of beating the North."

"How odd!"

"Miss Debree simply means," I exclaimed, "that we have inherited from the English an inability
to know when we are whipped."

"But we were not fighting the battle of Bunker Hill, or fighting about it, which is more serious,
Miss Debree. What I wanted to ask you was whether you think the domestication of religion will
affect its power in the regulation of conduct."

"Domestication? You are too deep for me, Mr. Morgan. I don't any more understand you than I
comprehend the writers who write about the feminization of literature."

"Well, taking the mystery out of it, the predominant element of worship, making the churches
sort of good-will charitable associations for the spread of sociability and good-feeling."

"You mean making Christianity practical?"

"Partially that. It is a part of the general problem of what women are going to make of the
world, now they have got hold of it, or are getting hold of it, and are discontented with being
women, or with being treated as women, and are bringing their emotions into all the avocations
of life."

"They cannot make it any worse than it has been."

"I'm not sure of that. Robustness is needed in churches as much as in government. I don't know
how much the cause of religion is advanced by these church clubs of Christian Endeavor if that
is the name, associations of young boys and girls who go about visiting other like clubs in
a sufficiently hilarious manner. I suppose it's the spirit of the age. I'm just wondering whether
the world is getting to think more of having a good time than it is of salvation."

"And you think woman's influence--for you cannot mean anything else--is somehow taking the
vigor out of affairs, making even the church a soft, purring affair, reducing us all to what
I suppose you would call a mush of domesticity."

"Or femininity."

"Well, the world has been brutal enough; it had better try a little femininity now."

"I hope it will not be more cruel to women."

"That is not an argument; that is a stab. I fancy you are altogether skeptical about woman.
Do you believe in her education?"

"Up to a certain point, or rather, I should say, after a certain point."

"That's it," spoke up my wife, shading her eyes from the fire with a fan. "I begin to have
my doubts about education as a panacea. I've noticed that girls with only a smattering--and
most of them in the nature of things can go, no further--are more liable to temptations."

"That is because 'education' is mistaken for the giving of information without training, as
we are finding out in England," said Mr. Lyon.

"Or that it is dangerous to awaken the imagination without a heavy ballast of principle," said
Mr. Morgan.

"That is a beautiful sentiment," Margaret exclaimed, throwing back her head, with a flash from
her eyes. "That ought to shut out women entirely. Only I cannot see how teaching women what
men know is going to give them any less principle than men have. It has seemed to me a long
while that the time has come for treating women like human beings, and giving them the responsibility
of their position."

"And what do you want, Margaret?" I asked.

"I don't know exactly what I do want," she answered, sinking back in her chair, sincerity coming
to modify her enthusiasm. "I don't want to go to Congress, or be a sheriff, or a lawyer, or
a locomotive engineer. I want the freedom of my own being, to be interested in everything in
the world, to feel its life as men do. You don't know what it is to have an inferior person
condescend to you simply because he is a man."

"Yet you wish to be treated as a woman?" queried Mr. Morgan.

"Of course. Do you think I want to banish romance out of the world?"

"You are right, my dear," said my wife. "The only thing that makes society any better than
an industrial ant-hill is the love between women and men, blind and destructive as it often is."

"Well," said Mrs. Morgan, rising to go, "having got back to first principles--"

"You think it is best to take your husband home before he denies even them," Mr. Morgan added.

When the others had gone, Margaret sat by the fire, musing, as if no one else were in the room.
The Englishman, still alert and eager for information, regarded her with growing interest.
It came into my mind as odd that, being such an uninteresting people as we are, the English
should be so curious about us. After an interval, Mr. Lyon said:

"I beg your pardon, Miss Debree, but would you mind telling me whether the movement of Women's
Rights is gaining in America?"

"I'm sure I don't know, Mr. Lyon," Margaret replied, after a pause, with a look of weariness.
"I'm tired of all the talk about it. I wish men and women, every soul of them, would try to
make the most of themselves, and see what would come of that."

"But in some places they vote about schools, and you have conventions--"

"Did you ever attend any kind of convention yourself, Mr. Lyon?"

"I? No. Why?"

"Oh, nothing. Neither did I. But you have a right to, you know. I should like to ask you one
question, Mr. Lyon," the girl, continued, rising.

"Should be most obliged."

"Why is it that so few English women marry Americans?"

"I--I never thought of that," he stammered, reddening. "Perhaps--perhaps it's because of American
women."

"Thank you," said Margaret, with a little courtesy. "It's very nice of you to say that. I can
begin to see now why so many American women marry Englishmen."

The Englishman blushed still more, and Margaret said good-night.

It was quite evident the next day that Margaret had made an impression on our visitor, and
that he was struggling with some new idea.

"Did you say, Mrs. Fairchild," he asked my wife, "that Miss Debree is a teacher? It seems very
odd."

"No; I said she taught in one of our schools. I don't think she is exactly a teacher."

"Not intending always to teach?"

"I don't suppose she has any definite intentions, but I never think of her as a teacher."

"She's so bright, and--and interesting, don't you think? So American?"

"Yes; Miss Debree is one of the exceptions."

"Oh, I didn't mean that all American women were as clever as Miss Debree."

"Thank you," said my wife. And Mr. Lyon looked as if he couldn't see why she should thank him.

The cottage in which Margaret lived with her aunt, Miss Forsythe, was not far from our house.
In summer it was very pretty, with its vine-shaded veranda across the front; and even in winter,
with the inevitable raggedness of deciduous vines, it had an air of refinement, a promise which
the cheerful interior more than fulfilled. Margaret's parting word to my wife the night before
had been that she thought her aunt would like to see the "chrysalis earl," and as Mr. Lyon
had expressed a desire to see something more of what he called the "gentry" of New England,
my wife ended their afternoon walk at Miss Forsythe's.

It was one of the winter days which are rare in New England, but of which there had been a
succession all through the Christmas holidays. Snow had not yet come, all the earth was brown
and frozen, whichever way you looked the interlacing branches and twigs of the trees made a
delicate lace-work, the sky was gray-blue, and the low-sailing sun had just enough heat to
evoke moisture from the frosty ground and suffuse the atmosphere into softness, in which all
the landscape became poetic. The phenomenon known as "red sunsets" was faintly repeated in
the greenish crimson glow along the violet hills, in which Venus burned like a jewel.

There was a fire smoldering on the hearth in the room they entered, which seemed to be sitting-room,
library, parlor, all in one; the old table of oak, too substantial for ornament, was strewn
with late periodicals and pamphlets--English, American, and French--and with books which lay
unarranged as they were thrown down from recent reading. In the centre was a bunch of red roses
in a pale-blue Granada jug. Miss Forsythe rose from a seat in the western window, with a book
in her hand, to greet her callers. She was slender, like Margaret, but taller, with soft brown
eyes and hair streaked with gray, which, sweeping plainly aside from her forehead in a fashion
then antiquated, contrasted finely with the flush of pink in her cheeks. This flush did not
suggest youth, but rather ripeness, the tone that comes with the lines made in the face by
gentle acceptance of the inevitable in life. In her quiet and self-possessed manner there was
a little note of graceful timidity, not perhaps noticeable in itself, but in contrast with
that unmistakable air of confidence which a woman married always has, and which in the unrefined
becomes assertive, an exaggerated notion of her importance, of the value added to her opinions
by the act of marriage. You can see it in her air the moment she walks away from the altar,
keeping step to Mendelssohn's tune. Jack Sharpley says that she always seems to be saying,
"Well, I've done it once for all." This assumption of the married must be one of the hardest
things for single women to bear in their self-congratulating sisters.

I have no doubt that Georgiana Forsythe was a charming girl, spirited and handsome; for the
beauty of her years, almost pathetic in its dignity and self-renunciation, could not have followed
mere prettiness or a commonplace experience. What that had been I never inquired, but it had
not soured her. She was not communicative nor confidential, I fancy, with any one, but she
was always friendly and sympathetic to the trouble of others, and helpful in an undemonstrative
way. If she herself had a secret feeling that her life was a failure, it never impressed her
friends so, it was so even, and full of good offices and quiet enjoyment. Heaven only knows,
however, the pathos of this apparently undisturbed life. For did a woman ever live who would
not give all the years of tasteless serenity, for one year, for one month, for one hour, of
the uncalculating delirium of love poured out upon a man who returned it? It may be better
for the world that there are these women to whom life has still some mysteries, who are capable
of illusions and the sweet sentimentality that grows out of a romance unrealized.

Although the recent books were on Miss Forsythe's table, her tastes and culture were of the
past age. She admired Emerson and Tennyson. One may keep current with the news of the world
without changing his principles. I imagine that Miss Forsythe read without injury to herself
the passionate and the pantheistic novels of the young women who have come forward in these
days of emancipation to teach their grandmothers a new basis of morality, and to render meaningless
all the consoling epitaphs on the mossy New England gravestones. She read Emerson for his sweet
spirit, for his belief in love and friendship, her simple Congregationalist faith remaining
undisturbed by his philosophy, from which she took only a habit of toleration.

"Miss Debree has gone to church," she said, in answer to Mr. Lyon's glance around the room.

"To vespers?"

"I believe they call it that. Our evening meetings, you know, only begin at early candlelight."

"And you do not belong to the Church?"

"Oh, yes, to the ancient aristocratic church of colonial times," she replied, with a little
smile of amusement. "My niece has stepped off Plymouth Rock."

"And was your religion founded on Plymouth Rock?"

"My niece says so when I rally her deserting the faith of her fathers," replied Miss Forsythe,
laughing at the working of the Episcopalian mind.

"I should like to understand about that; I mean about the position of Dissenters in America."

"I'm afraid I could not help you, Mr. Lyon. I fancy an Englishman would have to be born again,
as the phrase used to be, to comprehend that."

While Mr. Lyon was still unsatisfied on this point, he found the conversation shifted to the
other side. Perhaps it was a new experience to him that women should lead and not follow in
conversation. At any rate, it was an experience that put him at his ease. Miss Forsythe was
a great admirer of Gladstone and of General Gordon, and she expressed her admiration with a
knowledge that showed she had read the English newspapers.

"Yet I confess I don't comprehend Gladstone's conduct with regard to Egypt and Gordon's relief,"
she said.

"Perhaps," interposed my wife, "it would have been better for Gordon if he had trusted Providence
more and Gladstone less."

"I suppose it was Gladstone's humanity that made him hesitate."

"To bombard Alexandria?" asked Mr. Lyon, with a look of asperity.

"That was a mistake to be expected of a Tory, but not of Mr. Gladstone, who seems always seeking
the broadest principles of justice in his statesmanship."

"Yes, we regard Mr. Gladstone as a very great man, Miss Forsythe. He is broad enough. You know
we consider him a rhetorical phenomenon. Unfortunately he always 'muffs' anything he touches."

"I suspected," Miss Forsythe replied, after a moment, "that party spirit ran as high in England
as it does with us, and is as personal."

Mr. Lyon disclaimed any personal feeling, and the talk drifted into a comparison of English
and American politics, mainly with reference to the social factor in English politics, which
is so little an element here.

In the midst of the talk Margaret came in. The brisk walk in the rosy twilight had heightened
her color, and given her a glowing expression which her face had not the night before, and
a tenderness and softness, an unworldliness, brought from the quiet hour in the church.

She greeted the stranger with a Puritan undemonstrativeness, and as if not exactly aware of
his presence.

"I should like to have gone to vespers if I had known," said Mr. Lyon, after an embarrassing pause.

"Yes?" asked the girl, still abstractedly. "The world seems in a vesper mood," she added, looking
out the west windows at the red sky and the evening star.

In truth Nature herself at the moment suggested that talk was an impertinence. The callers
rose to go, with an exchange of neighborhood friendliness and invitations.

"I had no idea," said Mr. Lyon, as they walked homeward, "what the New World was like."

III

Mr. Lyon's invitation was for a week. Before the end of the week I was called to New York to
consult Mr. Henderson in regard to a railway investment in the West, which was turning out
more permanent than profitable. Rodney Henderson--the name later became very familiar to the
public in connection with a certain Congressional investigation--was a graduate of my own college,
a New Hampshire boy, a lawyer by profession, who practiced, as so many American lawyers do,
in Wall Street, in political combinations, in Washington, in railways. He was already known
as a rising man.

When I returned Mr. Lyon was still at our house. I understood that my wife had persuaded him
to extend his visit--a proposal he was little reluctant to fall in with, so interested had
he become in studying social life in America. I could well comprehend this, for we are all
making a "study" of something in this age, simple enjoyment being considered an unworthy motive.
I was glad to see that the young Englishman was improving himself, broadening his knowledge
of life, and not wasting the golden hours of youth. Experience is what we all need, and though
love or love-making cannot be called a novelty, there is something quite fresh about the study
of it in the modern spirit.

Mr. Lyon had made himself very agreeable to the little circle, not less by his inquiring spirit
than by his unaffected manners, by a kind of simplicity which women recognize as unconscious,
the result of an inherited habit of not thinking about one's position. In excess it may be
very disagreeable, but when it is combined with genuine good-nature and no self-assertion,
it is attractive. And although American women like a man who is aggressive towards the world
and combative, there is the delight of novelty in one who has leisure to be agreeable, leisure
for them, and who seems to their imagination to have a larger range in life than those who
are driven by business--one able to offer the peace and security of something attained.

There had been several little neighborhood entertainments, dinners at the Morgans' and at Mrs.
Fletcher's, and an evening cup of tea at Miss Forsythe's. In fact Margaret and Mr. Lyon had
been thrown much together. He had accompanied her to vespers, and they had taken a wintry walk
or two together before the snow came. My wife had not managed it--she assured me of that; but
she had not felt authorized to interfere; and she had visited the public library and looked
into the British Peerage. Men were so suspicious. Margaret was quite able to take care of herself.
I admitted that, but I suggested that the Englishman was a stranger in a strange land, that
he was far from home, and had perhaps a weakened sense of those powerful social influences
which must, after all, control him in the end. The only response to this was, "I think, dear,
you'd better wrap him up in cotton and send him back to his family."

Among her other activities Margaret was interested in a mission school in the city, to which
she devoted an occasional evening and Sunday afternoons. This was a new surprise for Mr. Lyon.
Was this also a part of the restlessness of American life? At Mrs. Howe's german the other
evening the girl had seemed wholly absorbed in dress, and the gayety of the serious formality
of the occasion, feeling the responsibility of it scarcely less than the "leader." Yet her
mind was evidently much occupied with the "condition of women," and she taught in a public
school. He could not at all make it out. Was she any more serious about the german than about
the mission school? It seemed odd at her age to take life so seriously. And was she serious
in all her various occupations, or only experimenting? There was a certain mocking humor in
the girl that puzzled the Englishman still more.

"I have not seen much of your life," he said one night to Mr. Morgan; "but aren't most American
women a little restless, seeking an occupation?"

"Perhaps they have that appearance; but about the same number find it, as formerly, in marriage."

"But I mean, you know, do they look to marriage as an end so much?"

"I don't know that they ever did look to marriage as anything but a means."

"I can tell you, Mr. Lyon," my wife interrupted, "you will get no information out of Mr. Morgan;
he is a scoffer."

"Not at all, I do assure you," Morgan replied. "I am just a humble observer. I see that there
is a change going on, but I cannot comprehend it. When I was young, girls used to go in for
society; they danced their feet off from seventeen to twenty-one. I never heard anything about
any occupation; they had their swing and their fling, and their flirtations; they appeared
to be skimming off of those impressionable, joyous years the cream of life."

"And you think that fitted them for the seriousness of life?" asked his wife.

"Well, I am under the impression that very good women came out of that society. I got one out
of that dancing crowd who has been serious enough for me."

"And little enough you have profited by it," said Mrs. Morgan.

"I'm content. But probably I'm old-fashioned. There is quite another spirit now. Girls out
of pinafores must begin seriously to consider some calling. All their flirtation from seventeen
to twenty-one is with some occupation. All their dancing days they must go to college, or in
some way lay the foundation for a useful life. I suppose it's all right. No doubt we shall
have a much higher style of women in the future than we ever had in the past."

"You allow nothing," said Mrs. Fletcher, "for the necessity of earning a living in these days
of competition. Women never will come to their proper position in the world, even as companions
of men, which you regard as their highest office, until they have the ability to be self-supporting."

"Oh, I admitted the fact of the independence of women a long time ago. Every one does that
before he comes to middle life. About the shifting all round of this burden of earning a living,
I am not so sure. It does not appear yet to make competition any less; perhaps competition
would disappear if everybody did earn his own living and no more. I wonder, by-the-way, if
the girls, the young women, of the class we seem to be discussing ever do earn as much as would
pay the wages of the servants who are hired to do the housework in their places?"

"That is a most ignoble suggestion," I could not help saying, "when you know that the object
in modern life is the cultivation of the mind, the elevation of women, and men also, in intellectual
life."

"I suppose so. I should like to have asked Abigail Adams's opinion on the way to do it."

"One would think," I said, "that you didn't know that the spinning-jenny and the stocking-knitter
had been invented. Given these, the women's college was a matter of course."

"Oh, I'm a believer in all kinds of machinery anything to save labor. Only, I have faith that
neither the jenny nor the college will change human nature, nor take the romance out of life."

"So have I," said my wife. "I've heard two things affirmed: that women who receive a scientific
or professional education lose their faith, become usually agnostics, having lost sensitiveness
to the mysteries of life."

"And you think, therefore, that they should not have a scientific education?"

"No, unless all scientific prying into things is a mistake. Women may be more likely at first
to be upset than men, but they will recover their balance when the novelty is worn off. No
amount of science will entirely change their emotional nature; and besides, with all our science,
I don't see that the supernatural has any less hold on this generation than on the former."

"Yes, and you might say the world was never before so credulous as it is now. But what was
the other thing?"

"Why, that co-education is likely to diminish marriages among the co-educated. Daily familiarity
in the classroom at the most impressionable age, revelation of all the intellectual weaknesses
and petulances, absorption of mental routine on an equality, tend to destroy the sense of romance
and mystery that are the most powerful attractions between the sexes. It is a sort of disenchanting
familiarity that rubs off the bloom."

"Have you any statistics on the subject?"

"No. I fancy it is only a notion of some old fogy who thinks education in any form is dangerous
for women."

"Yes, and I fancy that co-education will have about as much effect on life generally as that
solemn meeting of a society of intelligent and fashionable women recently in one of our great
cities, who met to discuss the advisability of limiting population."

"Great Scott!" I exclaimed, "this is an interesting age."

I was less anxious about the vagaries of it when I saw the very old-fashioned way in which
the international drama was going on in our neighborhood. Mr. Lyon was increasingly interested
in Margaret's mission work. Nor was there much affectation in this. Philanthropy, anxiety about
the working-classes, is nowhere more serious or in the fashion than it is in London. Mr. Lyon,
wherever he had been, had made a special study of the various aid and relief societies, especially
of the work for young waifs and strays.

One Sunday afternoon they were returning from the Bloom Street Mission. Snow covered the ground,
the sky was leaden, and the air had a penetrating chill in it far more disagreeable than extreme
cold.

"We also," Mr. Lyon was saying, in continuation of a conversation, "are making a great effort
for the common people."

"But we haven't any common people here," replied Margaret, quickly. "That bright boy you noticed
in my class, who was a terror six months ago, will no doubt be in the City Council in a few
years, and likely enough mayor."

"Oh, I know your theory. It practically comes to the same thing, whatever you call it. I couldn't
see that the work in New York differed much from that in London. We who have leisure ought
to do something for the working-classes."

"I sometimes doubt if it is not all a mistake most of our charitable work. The thing is to
get people to do something for themselves."

"But you cannot do away with distinctions?"

"I suppose not, so long as so many people are born vicious, or incompetent, or lazy. But, Mr.
Lyon, how much good do you suppose condescending charity does?" asked Margaret, firing up in
a way the girl had at times. "I mean the sort that makes the distinctions more evident. The
very fact that you have leisure to meddle in their affairs may be an annoyance to the folks
you try to help by the little palliatives of charity. What effect upon a wretched city neighborhood
do you suppose is produced by the advent in it of a stylish carriage and a lady in silk, or
even the coming of a well-dressed, prosperous woman in a horse-car, however gentle and unassuming
she may be in this distribution of sympathy and bounty? Isn't the feeling of inequality intensified?
And the degrading part of it may be that so many are willing to accept this sort of bounty.
And your men of leisure, your club men, sitting in the windows and seeing the world go by as
a spectacle-men who never did an hour's necessary work in their lives--what effect do you suppose
the sight of them has upon men out of work, perhaps by their own fault, owing to the same disposition
to be idle that the men in the club windows have?"

"And do you think it would be any better if all were poor alike?"

"I think it would be better if there were no idle people. I'm half ashamed that I have leisure
to go every time I go to that mission. And I'm almost sorry, Mr. Lyon, that I took you there.
The boys knew you were English. One of them asked me if you were a 'lord' or a 'juke' or something.
I cannot tell how they will take it. They may resent the spying into their world of an 'English
juke,' and they may take it in the light of a show."

Mr. Lyon laughed. And then, perhaps after a little reflection upon the possibility that the
nobility was becoming a show in this world, he said:

"I begin to think I'm very unfortunate, Miss Debree. You seem to remind me that I am in a position
in which I can do very little to help the world along."

"Not at all. You can do very much."

"But how, when whatever I attempt is considered a condescension? What can I do?"

"Pardon me," and Margaret turned her eyes frankly upon him. "You can be a good earl when your
time comes."

Their way lay through the little city park. It is a pretty place in summer--a varied surface,
well planted with forest and ornamental trees, intersected by a winding stream. The little
river was full now, and ice had formed on it, with small openings here and there, where the
dark water, hurrying along as if in fear of arrest, had a more chilling aspect than the icy
cover. The ground was white with snow, and all the trees were bare except for a few frozen
oak-leaves here and there, which shivered in the wind and somehow added to the desolation.
Leaden clouds covered the sky, and only in the west was there a gleam of the departing winter day.

Upon the elevated bank of the stream, opposite to the road by which they approached, they saw
a group of people--perhaps twenty-drawn closely together, either in the sympathy of segregation
from an unfeeling world, or for protection from the keen wind. On the hither bank, and leaning
on the rails of the drive, had collected a motley crowd of spectators, men, women, and boys,
who exhibited some impatience and much curiosity, decorous for the most part, but emphasized
by occasional jocose remarks in an undertone. A serious ceremony was evidently in progress.
The separate group had not a prosperous air. The women were thinly clad for such a day. Conspicuous
in the little assembly was a tall, elderly man in a shabby long coat and a broad felt hat,
from under which his white hair fell upon his shoulders. He might be a prophet in Israel come
out to testify to an unbelieving world, and the little group around him, shaken like reeds
in the wind, had the appearance of martyrs to a cause. The light of another world shone in
their thin, patient faces. Come, they seemed to say to the worldlings on the opposite bank--come
and see what happiness it is to serve the Lord. As they waited, a faint tune was started, a
quavering hymn, whose feeble notes the wind blew away of first, but which grew stronger.

Before the first stanza was finished a carriage appeared in the rear of the group. From it
descended a middle-aged man and a stout woman, and they together helped a young girl to alight.
She was clad all in white. For a moment her thin, delicate figure shrank from the cutting wind.
Timid, nervous, she glanced an instant at the crowd and the dark icy stream; but it was only
a protest of the poor body; the face had the rapt, exultant look of joyous sacrifice.

The tall man advanced to meet her, and led her into the midst of the group.

For a few moments there was prayer, inaudible at a distance. Then the tall man, taking the
girl by the hand, advanced down the slope to the stream. His hat was laid aside, his venerable
locks streamed in the breeze, his eyes were turned to heaven; the girl walked as in a vision,
without a tremor, her wide-opened eyes fixed upon invisible things. As they moved on, the group
behind set up a joyful hymn in a kind of mournful chant, in which the tall man joined with
a strident voice. Fitfully the words came on the wind, in an almost heart-breaking wail:

   "Beyond the smiling and the weeping I shall be soon;
   Beyond the waking and the sleeping,
   Beyond the sowing and the reaping, I shall be soon."

They were near the water now, and the tall man's voice sounded out loud and clear:

"Lord, tarry not, but come!"

They were entering the stream where there was an opening clear of ice; the footing was not
very secure, and the tall man ceased singing, but the little band sang on:

   "Beyond the blooming and the fading I shall be soon."

The girl grew paler and shuddered. The tall man sustained her with an attitude of infinite
sympathy, and seemed to speak words of encouragement. They were in the mid-stream; the cold
flood surged about their waists. The group sang on:

   "Beyond the shining and the shading,
   Beyond the hoping and the dreading, I shall be soon."

The strong, tender arms of the tall man gently lowered the white form under the cruel water;
he staggered a moment in the swift stream, recovered himself, raised her, white as death, and
the voices of the wailing tune came:

   "Love, rest, and home
   Sweet hope! Lord, tarry not, but come!"

And the tall man, as he struggled to the shore with his almost insensible burden, could be
heard above the other voices and the wind and the rush of the waters:

   "Lord, tarry not, but come!"

The girl was hurried into the carriage, and the group quickly dispersed. "Well, I'll be--"
The tender-hearted little wife of the rough man in the crowd who began that sentence did not
permit him to finish it. "That'll be a case for a doctor right away," remarked a well-known
practitioner who had been looking on.

Margaret and Mr. Lyon walked home in silence. "I can't talk about it," she said. "It's such
a pitiful world."

IV

In the evening, at our house, Margaret described the scene in the park.

"It's dreadful," was the comment of Miss Forsythe. "The authorities ought not to permit such
a thing."

"It seemed to me as heroic as pitiful, aunt. I fear I should be incapable of making such a
testimony."

"But it was so unnecessary."

"How do we know what is necessary to any poor soul? What impressed me most strongly was that
there is in the world still this longing to suffer physically and endure public scorn for a
belief."

"It may have been a disappointment to the little band," said Mr. Morgan, "that there was no
demonstration from the spectators, that there was no loud jeering, that no snowballs were thrown
by the boys."

"They could hardly expect that," said I; "the world has become so tolerant that it doesn't care."

"I rather think," Margaret replied, "that the spectators for a moment came under the spell
of the hour, and were awed by something supernatural in the endurance of that frail girl."

"No doubt," said my wife, after a little pause. "I believe that there is as much sense of mystery
in the world as ever, and as much of what we call faith, only it shows itself eccentrically.
Breaking away from traditions and not going to church have not destroyed the need in the minds
of the mass of people for something outside themselves."

"Did I tell you," interposed Morgan--"it is almost in the line of your thought--of a girl I
met the other day on the train? I happened to be her seat-mate in the car-thin face, slight
little figure--a commonplace girl, whom I took at first to be not more than twenty, but from
the lines about her large eyes she was probably nearer forty. She had in her lap a book, which
she conned from time to time, and seemed to be committing verses to memory as she looked out
the window. At last I ventured to ask what literature it was that interested her so much, when
she turned and frankly entered into conversation. It was a little Advent song-book. She liked
to read it on the train, and hum over the tunes. Yes, she was a good deal on the cars; early
every morning she rode thirty miles to her work, and thirty miles back every evening. Her work
was that of clerk and copyist in a freight office, and she earned nine dollars a week, on which
she supported herself and her mother. It was hard work, but she did not mind it much. Her mother
was quite feeble. She was an Adventist. 'And you?' I asked. 'Oh, yes; I am. I've been an Adventist
twenty years, and I've been perfectly happy ever since I joined--perfectly,' she added, turning
her plain face, now radiant, towards me. 'Are you one?' she asked, presently. 'Not an immediate
Adventist,' I was obliged to confess. 'I thought you might be, there are so many now, more
and more.' I learned that in our little city there were two Advent societies; there had been
a split on account of some difference in the meaning of original sin. 'And you are not discouraged
by the repeated failure of the predictions of the end of the world?' I asked. 'No. Why should
we be? We don't fix any certain day now, but all the signs show that it is very near. We are
all free to think as we like. Most of our members now think it will be next year.'--'I hope
not!' I exclaimed. 'Why?' she asked, turning to me with a look of surprise. 'Are you afraid?'
I evaded by saying that I supposed the good had nothing to fear. 'Then you must be an Adventist,
you have so much sympathy.'--'I shouldn't like to have the world come to an end next year,
because there are so many interesting problems, and I want to see how they will be worked out.'--'How
can you want to put it off'--and there was for the first time a little note of fanaticism in
her voice--'when there is so much poverty and hard work? It is such a hard world, and so much
suffering and sin. And it could all be ended in a moment. How can you want it to go on?' The
train approached the station, and she rose to say good-by. 'You will see the truth some day,'
she said, and went away as cheerful as if the world was actually destroyed. She was the happiest
woman I have seen in a long time."

"Yes," I said, "it is an age of both faith and credulity."

"And nothing marks it more," Morgan added, "than the popular expectation among the scientific
and the ignorant of something to come out of the dimly understood relation of body and mind.
It is like the expectation of the possibilities of electricity."

"I was going on to say," I continued, "that wherever I walk in the city of a Sunday afternoon,
I am struck with the number of little meetings going on, of the faithful and the unfaithful,
Adventists, socialists, spiritualists, culturists, Sons and Daughters of Edom; from all the
open windows of the tall buildings come notes of praying, of exhortation, the melancholy wail
of the inspiring Sankey tunes, total abstinence melodies, over-the-river melodies, songs of
entreaty, and songs of praise. There is so much going on outside of the regular churches!"

"But the churches are well attended," suggested my wife.

"Yes, fairly, at least once a day, and if there is sensational preaching, twice. But there
is nothing that will so pack the biggest hall in the city as the announcement of inspirational
preaching by some young woman who speaks at random on a text given her when she steps upon
the platform. There is something in her rhapsody, even when it is incoherent, that appeals
to a prevailing spirit."'

"How much of it is curiosity?" Morgan asked. "Isn't the hall just as jammed when the clever
attorney of Nothingism, Ham Saversoul, jokes about the mysteries of this life and the next?"

"Very likely. People like the emotional and the amusing. All the same, they are credulous,
and entertain doubt and belief on the slightest evidence."

"Isn't it natural," spoke up Mr. Lyon, who had hitherto been silent, "that you should drift
into this condition without an established church?"

"Perhaps it's natural," Morgan retorted, "that people dissatisfied with an established religion
should drift over here. Great Britain, you know, is a famous recruiting-ground for our socialistic
experiments."

"Ah, well," said my wife, "men will have something. If what is established repels to the extent
of getting itself disestablished, and all churches should be broken up, society would somehow
precipitate itself again spiritually. I heard the other day that Boston, getting a little weary
of the Vedas, was beginning to take up the New Testament."

"Yes," said Morgan, "since Tolstoi mentioned it."

After a little the talk drifted into psychic research, and got lost in stories of "appearances"
and "long-distance" communications. It appeared to me that intelligent people accepted this
sort of story as true on evidence on which they wouldn't risk five dollars if it were a question
of money. Even scientists swallow tales of prehistoric bones on testimony they would reject
if it involved the title to a piece of real estate.

Mr. Lyon still lingered in the lap of a New England winter as if it had been Capua. He was
anxious to visit Washington and study the politics of the country, and see the sort of society
produced in the freedom of a republic, where there was no court to give the tone and there
were no class lines to determine position. He was restless under this sense of duty. The future
legislator for the British Empire must understand the Constitution of its great rival, and
thus be able to appreciate the social currents that have so much to do with political action.

In fact he had another reason for uneasiness. His mother had written him, asking why he stayed
so long in an unimportant city, he who had been so active a traveler hitherto. Knowledge of
the capitals was what he needed. Agreeable people he could find at home, if his only object
was to pass the time. What could he reply? Could he say that he had become very much interested
in studying a schoolteacher--a very charming school-teacher? He could see the vision raised
in the minds of his mother and of the earl and of his elder sister as they should read this
precious confession--a vision of a schoolma'am, of an American girl, and an American girl without
any money at that, moving in the little orbit of Chisholm House. The thing was absurd. And
yet why was it absurd? What was English politics, what was Chisholm House, what was everybody
in England compared to this noble girl? Nay, what would the world be without her? He grew hot
in thinking of it, indignant at his relations and the whole artificial framework of things.

The situation was almost humiliating. He began, to doubt the stability of his own position.
Hitherto he had met no obstacle: whatever he had desired he had obtained. He was a sensible
fellow, and knew the world was not made for him; but it certainly had yielded to him in everything.
Why did he doubt now? That he did doubt showed him the intensity of his interest in Margaret.
For love is humble, and undervalues self in contrast with that which it desires. At this touchstone
rank, fortune, all that go with them, seemed poor. What were all these to a woman's soul? But
there were women enough, women enough in England, women more beautiful than Margaret, doubtless
as amiable and intellectual. Yet now there was for him only one woman in the world. And Margaret
showed no sign. Was he about to make a fool of himself? If she should reject him he would seem
a fool to himself. If she accepted him he would seem a fool to the whole circle that made his
world at home. The situation was intolerable. He would end it by going.

But he did not go. If he went today he could not see her tomorrow. To a lover anything can
be borne if he knows that he shall see her tomorrow. In short, he could not go so long as there
was any doubt about her disposition towards him.

And a man is still reduced to this in the latter part of the nineteenth century, notwithstanding
all our science, all our analysis of the passion, all our wise jabber about the failure of
marriage, all our commonsense about the relation of the sexes. Love is still a personal question,
not to be reasoned about or in any way disposed of except in the old way. Maidens dream about
it; diplomats yield to it; stolid men are upset by it; the aged become young, the young grave,
under its influence; the student loses his appetite--God bless him! I like to hear the young
fellows at the club rattle on bravely, indifferent to the whole thing--skeptical, in fact,
about it. And then to see them, one after another, stricken down, and looking a little sheepish
and not saying much, and by-and-by radiant. You would think they owned the world. Heaven, I
think, shows us no finer sarcasm than one of these young skeptics as a meek family man.

Margaret and Mr. Lyon were much together.

And their talk, as always happens when two persons find themselves much together, became more
and more personal. It is only in books that dialogues are abstract and impersonal. The Englishman
told her about his family, about the set in which he moved--and he had the English frankness
in setting it out unreservedly--about the life he led at Oxford, about his travels, and so
on to what he meant to do in the world. Margaret in return had little to tell, her own life
had been so simple--not much except the maidenly reserves, the discontents with herself, which
interested him more than anything else; and of the future she would not speak at all. How can
a woman, without being misunderstood? All this talk had a certain danger in it, for sympathy
is unavoidable between two persons who look ever so little into each other's hearts and compare
tastes and desires.

"I cannot quite understand your social life over here," Mr. Lyon was saying one day. "You seem
to make distinctions, but I cannot see exactly for what."

"Perhaps they make themselves. Your social orders seem able to resist Darwin's theory, but
in a republic natural selection has a better chance."

"I was told by a Bohemian on the steamer coming over that money in America takes the place
of rank in England."

"That isn't quite true."

"And I was told in Boston by an acquaintance of very old family and little fortune that 'blood'
is considered here as much as anywhere."

"You see, Mr. Lyon, how difficult it is to get correct information about us. I think we worship
wealth a good deal, and we worship family a good deal, but if any one presumes too much upon
either, he is likely to come to grief. I don't understand it very well myself."

"Then it is not money that determines social position in America?"

"Not altogether; but more now than formerly. I suppose the distinction is this: family will
take a person everywhere, money will take him almost everywhere; but money is always at this
disadvantage--it takes more and more of it to gain position. And then you will find that it
is a good deal a matter of locality. For instance, in Virginia and Kentucky family is still
very powerful, stronger than any distinction in letters or politics or success in business;
and there is a certain diminishing number of people in New York, Philadelphia, Boston, who
cultivate a good deal of exclusiveness on account of descent."

"But I am told that this sort of aristocracy is succumbing to the new plutocracy."

"Well, it is more and more difficult to maintain a position without money. Mr. Morgan says
that it is a disheartening thing to be an aristocrat without luxury; he declares that he cannot
tell whether the Knickerbockers of New York or the plutocrats are more uneasy just now. The
one is hungry for social position, and is morose if he cannot buy it; and when the other is
seduced by luxury and yields, he finds that his distinction is gone. For in his heart the newly
rich only respects the rich. A story went about of one of the Bonanza princes who had built
his palace in the city, and was sending out invitations to his first entertainment. Somebody
suggested doubts to him about the response. 'Oh,' he said, 'the beggars will be glad enough
to come!'"

"I suppose, Mr. Lyon," said Margaret, demurely, "that this sort of thing is unknown in England?"

"Oh, I couldn't say that money is not run after there to some extent."

"I saw a picture in Punch of an auction, intended as an awful satire on American women. It
struck me that it might have two interpretations."

"Yes, Punch is as friendly to America as it is to the English aristocracy."

"Well, I was only thinking that it is just an exchange of commodities. People will always give
what they have for what they want. The Western man changes his pork in New York for pictures.
I suppose that--what do you call it?--the balance of trade is against us, and we have to send
over cash and beauty."

"I didn't know that Miss Debree was so much of a political economist."

"We got that out of books in school. Another thing we learned is that England wants raw material;
I thought I might as well say it, for it wouldn't be polite for you."

"Oh, I'm capable of saying anything, if provoked. But we have got away from the point. As far
as I can see, all sorts of people intermarry, and I don't see how you can discriminate socially--where
the lines are."

Mr. Lyon saw the moment that he had made it that this was a suggestion little likely to help
him. And Margaret's reply showed that he had lost ground.

"Oh, we do not try to discriminate--except as to foreigners. There is a popular notion that
Americans had better marry at home."

"Then the best way for a foreigner to break your exclusiveness is to be naturalized." Mr. Lyon
tried to adopt her tone, and added, "Would you like to see me an American citizen?"

"I don't believe you could be, except for a little while; you are too British."

"But the two nations are practically the same; that is, individuals of the nations are. Don't
you think so?"

"Yes, if one of them gives up all the habits and prejudices of a lifetime and of a whole social
condition to the other."

"And which would have to yield?"

"Oh, the man, of course. It has always been so. My great-great-grandfather was a Frenchman,
but he became, I have always heard, the most docile American republican."

"Do you think he would have been the one to give in if they had gone to France?"

"Perhaps not. And then the marriage would have been unhappy. Did you never take notice that
a woman's happiness, and consequently the happiness of marriage, depends upon a woman's having
her own way in all social matters? Before our war all the men who married down South took the
Southern view, and all the Southern women who married up North held their own, and sensibly
controlled the sympathies of their husbands."

"And how was it with the Northern women who married South, as you say?"

"Well, it must be confessed that a good many of them adapted themselves, in appearance at least.
Women can do that, and never let anyone see they are not happy and not doing it from choice."

"And don't you think American women adapt themselves happily to English life?"

"Doubtless some; I doubt if many do; but women do not confess mistakes of that kind. Woman's
happiness depends so much upon the continuation of the surroundings and sympathies in which
she is bred. There are always exceptions. Do you know, Mr. Lyon, it seems to me that some people
do not belong in the country where they were born. We have men who ought to have been born
in England, and who only find themselves really they go there. There are who are ambitious,
and court a career different from any that a republic can give them. They are not satisfied
here. Whether they are happy there I do not know; so few trees, when at all grown, will bear
transplanting."

"Then you think international marriages are a mistake?"

"Oh, I don't theorize on subjects I am ignorant of."

"You give me very cold comfort."

"I didn't know," said Margaret, with a laugh that was too genuine to be consoling, "that you
were traveling for comfort; I thought it was for information."

"And I am getting a great deal," said Mr. Lyon, rather ruefully. "I'm trying to find out where.
I ought to have been born."

"I'm not sure," Margaret said, half seriously, "but you would have been a very good American."

This was not much of an admission, after all, but it was the most that Margaret had ever made,
and Mr. Lyon tried to get some encouragement out of it. But he felt, as any man would feel,
that this beating about the bush, this talk of nationality and all that, was nonsense; that
if a woman loved a man she wouldn't care where he was born; that all the world would be as
nothing to him; that all conditions and obstacles society and family could raise would melt
away in the glow of a real passion. And he wondered for a moment if American girls were not
"calculating"--a word to which he had learned over here to attach a new and comical meaning.

V

The afternoon after this conversation Miss Forsythe was sitting reading in her favorite window-seat
when Mr. Lyon was announced. Margaret was at her school. There was nothing un usual in this
afternoon call; Mr. Lyon's visits had become frequent and informal; but Miss Forsythe had a
nervous presentiment that something important was to happen, that showed itself in her greeting,
and which was perhaps caught from a certain new diffidence in his manner.

Perhaps the maiden lady preserves more than any other this sensitiveness, inborn in women,
to the approach of the critical moment in the affairs of the heart. The day may some time be
past when she--is sensitive for herself--philosophers say otherwise--but she is easily put
in a flutter by the affair of another. Perhaps this is because the negative (as we say in these
days) which takes impressions retains all its delicacy from the fact that none of them have
ever been developed, and perhaps it is a wise provision of nature that age in a heart unsatisfied
should awaken lively apprehensive curiosity and sympathy about the manifestation of the tender
passion in others. It certainly is a note of the kindliness and charity of the maiden mind
that its sympathies are so apt to be most strongly excited in the success of the wooer. This
interest may be quite separable from the common feminine desire to make a match whenever there
is the least chance of it. Miss Forsythe was not a match-maker, but Margaret herself would
not have been more embarrassed than she was at the beginning of this interview.

When Mr. Lyon was seated she made the book she had in her hand the excuse for beginning a talk
about the confidence young novelists seem to have in their ability to upset the Christian religion
by a fictitious representation of life, but her visitor was too preoccupied to join in it.
He rose and stood leaning his arm upon the mantel-piece, and looking into the fire, and said,
abruptly, at last:

"I called to see you, Miss Forsythe, to--to consult you about your niece."

"About her career?" asked Miss Forsythe, with a nervous consciousness of falsehood.

"Yes, about her career; that is, in a way," turning towards her with a little smile.

"Yes?"

"You must have seen my interest in her. You must have known why I stayed on and on. But it
was, it is, all so uncertain. I wanted to ask your permission to speak my mind to her."

"Are you quite sure you know your own mind?" asked Miss Forsythe, defensively.

"Sure--sure; I have never had the feeling for any other woman I have for her."

"Margaret is a noble girl; she is very independent," suggested Miss Forsythe, still avoiding
the point.

"I know. I don't ask you her feeling." Mr. Lyon was standing quietly looking down into the
coals. "She is the only woman in the world to me. I love her. Are you against me?" he asked,
suddenly looking up, with a flush in his face.

"Oh, no! no!" exclaimed Miss Forsythe, with another access of timidity. "I shouldn't take the
responsibility of being against you, or--or otherwise. It is very manly in you to come to me,
and I am sure I--we all wish nothing but your own happiness. And so far as I am concerned--"

"Then I have your permission?" he asked, eagerly.

"My permission, Mr. Lyon? why, it is so new to me, I scarcely realized that I had any permission,"
she said, with a little attempt at pleasantry. "But as her aunt--and guardian, as one may say--personally
I should have the greatest satisfaction to know that Margaret's destiny was in the hands of
one we all esteem and know as we do you."

"Thank you, thank you," said Mr. Lyon, coming forward and seizing her hand.

"But you must let me say, let me suggest, that there are a great many things to be thought
of. There is such a difference in education, in all the habits of your lives, in all your relations.
Margaret would never be happy in a position where less was accorded to her than she had all
her life. Nor would her pride let her take such a position."

"But as my wife--"

"Yes, I know that is sufficient in your mind. Have you consulted your mother, Mr. Lyon?"

"Not yet."

"And have you written to any one at home about my niece?"

"Not yet."

"And does it seem a little difficult to do so?" This was a probe that went even deeper than
the questioner knew. Mr. Lyon hesitated, seeing again as in a vision the astonishment of his
family. He was conscious of an attempt at self-deception when he replied:

"Not difficult, not at all difficult, but I thought I would wait till I had something definite
to say."

"Margaret is, of course, perfectly free to act for herself. She has a very ardent nature, but
at the same time a great deal of what we call common sense. Though her heart might be very
much engaged, she would hesitate to put herself in any society which thought itself superior
to her. You see I speak with great frankness."

It was a new position for Mr. Lyon to find his prospective rank seemingly an obstacle to anything
he desired. For a moment the whimsicality of it interrupted the current of his feeling. He
thought of the probable comments of the men of his London club upon the drift his conversation
was taking with a New England spinster about his fitness to marry a school-teacher. With a
smile that was summoned to hide his annoyance, he said, "I don't see how I can defend myself,
Miss Forsythe."

"Oh," she replied, with an answering smile that recognized his view of the humor of the situation,
"I was not thinking of you, Mr. Lyon, but of the family and the society that my niece might
enter, to which rank is of the first importance."

"I am simply John Lyon, Miss Forsythe. I may never be anything else. But if it were otherwise,
I did not suppose that Americans objected to rank."

It was an unfortunate speech, felt to be so the instant it was uttered. Miss Forsythe's pride
was touched, and the remark was not softened to her by the air of half banter with which the
sentence concluded. She said, with a little stillness and formality: "I fear, Mr. Lyon, that
your sarcasm is too well merited. But there are Americans who make a distinction between rank
and blood. Perhaps it is very undemocratic, but there is nowhere else more pride of family,
of honorable descent, than here. We think very much of what we call good blood. And you will
pardon me for saying that we are accustomed to speak of some persons and families abroad which
have the highest rank as being thoroughly bad blood. If I am not mistaken, you also recognize
the historic fact of ignoble blood in the owners of noble titles. I only mean, Mr. Lyon," she
added, with a softening of manner, "that all Americans do not think that rank covers a multitude
of sins."

"Yes, I think I get your American point of view. But to return to myself, if you will allow
me; if I am so fortunate as to win Miss Debree's love, I have no fear that she would not win
the hearts of all my family. Do you think that my--my prospective position would be an objection
to her?"

"Not your position, no; if her heart were engaged. But expatriation, involving a surrender
of all the habits and traditions and associations of a lifetime and of one's kindred, is a
serious affair. One would need to be very much in love"--and Miss Forsythe blushed a little
as she said it--"to make such a surrender."

"I know. I am sure I love her too much to wish to bring any change in her life that would ever
cause her unhappiness."

"I am glad to feel sure of that."

"And so I have your permission?"

"Most sincerely," said Miss Forsythe, rising and giving him her hand. "I could wish nothing
better for Margaret than union with a man like you. But whatever I wish, you two have your
destiny in your own hands." Her tone was wholly frank and cordial, but there was a wistful
look in her face, as of one who knew how roughly life handles all youthful enthusiasms.

When John Lyon walked away from her door his feelings were very much mixed. At one instant
his pride rebelled against the attitude he had just assumed. But this was only a flash, which
he put away as unbecoming a man towards a true woman. The next thought was one of unselfish
consideration for Margaret herself. He would not subject her to any chance of social mortifications.
He would wait. He would return home and test his love by renewing his lifelong associations,
and by the reception his family would give to his proposal. And the next moment he saw Margaret
as she had become to him, as she must always be to him. Should he risk the loss of her by timidity?
What were all these paltry considerations to his love?

Was there ever a young man who could see any reasons against the possession of the woman he
loved? Was there ever any love worth the name that could be controlled by calculations of expediency?
I have no doubt that John Lyon went through the usual process which is called weighing a thing
in the mind. It is generally an amusing process, and it is consoling to the conscience. The
mind has little to do with it except to furnish the platform on which the scales are set up.
A humorist says that he must have a great deal of mind, it takes him so long to make it up.
There is the same apparent deliberation where love is concerned. Everything "contra" is carefully
placed in one scale of the balance, and it is always satisfactory and convincing to see how
quickly it kicks the beam when love is placed in the other scale. The lightest love in the
world, under a law as invariable as gravitation, is heavier than any other known consideration.
It is perhaps doing injustice to Mr. Lyon not to dwell upon this struggle in his mind, and
to say that in all honesty he may not have known that the result of it was predetermined. But
interesting and commendable as are these processes of the mind, I confess that I should have
respected him less if the result had not been predetermined. And this does not in any way take
from him the merit of a restless night and a tasteless breakfast.

Philosophizers on this topic say that a man ought always to be able to tell by a woman's demeanor
towards him whether she is favorably inclined, and that he need run no risk. Little signs,
the eyes alone, draw people together, and make formal language superfluous. This theory is
abundantly sustained by examples, and we might rest on it if all women knew their own minds,
and if, on the other hand, they could always tell whether a man was serious before he made
a definite avowal. There is another notion, fortunately not yet extinct, that the manliest
thing a man can do is to take his life in his hand, pay the woman he loves the highest tribute
in his power by offering her his heart and name, and giving her the definite word that may
be the touchstone to reveal to herself her own feeling. In our conventional life women must
move behind a mask in a world of uncertainties. What wonder that many of them learn in their
defensive position to play a game, and sometimes experiment upon the honest natures of their
admirers! But even this does not absolve the chivalrous man from the duty of frankness and
explicitness. Life seems ideal in that far country where the handsome youth stops his carriage
at the gate of the vineyard, and says to the laughing girl carrying a basket of grapes on her
head, "My pretty maid, will you marry me?" And the pretty maid, dropping a courtesy, says,
"Thank you, sir; I am already bespoken," or "Thank you; I will consider of it when I know you
better."

Not for a moment, I suppose, is a woman ever ignorant of a man's admiration of her, however
uncertain she may be of his intentions, and it was with an unusual flutter of the heart that
Margaret received Mr. Lyon that afternoon. If she had doubts, they were dissipated by a certain
constraint in his manner, and the importance he seemed to be attaching to his departure, and
she was warned to go within her defenses. Even the most complaisant women like at least the
appearance of a siege.

"I'm off tomorrow," he said, "for Washington. You know you recommended it as necessary to my
American education."

"Yes. We send Representatives and strangers there to be educated. I have never been there myself."

"And do you not wish to go?"

"Very much. All Americans want to go to Washington. It is the great social opportunity; everybody
there is in society. You will be able to see there, Mr. Lyon, how a republican democracy manages
social life.

"Do you mean to say there are no distinctions?"

"Oh, no; there are plenty of official distinctions, and a code that is very curious and complicated,
I believe. But still society is open."

"It must be--pardon me--a good deal like a mob."

"Well, our mobs of that sort are said to be very well behaved. Mr. Morgan says that Washington
is the only capital in the world where the principle of natural selection applies to society;
that it is there shown for the first time that society is able to take care of itself in the
free play of democratic opportunities."

"It must be very interesting to see that."

"I hope you will find it so. The resident diplomats, I have heard, say that they find society
there more agreeable than at any other capital--at least those who have the qualities to make
themselves agreeable independent of their rank."

"Is there nothing like a court? I cannot see who sets the mode."

"Officially there may be something like a court, but it can be only temporary, for the personnel
of it is dissolved every four years. And society, always forming and reforming, as the voters
of the republic dictate, is almost independent of the Government, and has nothing of the social
caste of Berlin or London."

"You make quite an ideal picture."

"Oh, I dare say it is not at all ideal; only it is rather fluid, and interesting, to see how
society, without caste and subject to such constant change, can still be what is called 'society.'
And I am told that while it is all open in a certain way, it nevertheless selects itself into
agreeable groups, much as society does elsewhere. Yes, you ought to see what a democracy can
do in this way."

"But I am told that money makes your aristocracy here."

"Very likely rich people think they are an aristocracy. You see, Mr. Lyon, I don't know much
about the great world. Mrs. Fletcher, whose late husband was once a Representative in Washington,
says that life is not nearly so simple there as it used to be, and that rich men in the Government,
vying with rich men who have built fine houses and who live there permanently without any Government
position, have introduced an element of expense and display that interferes very much with
the natural selection of which Mr. Morgan speaks. But you will see. We are all right sorry
to have you leave us," Margaret added, turning towards him with frank, unclouded eyes.

"It is very good in you to say so. I have spent here the most delightful days of my life."

"Oh, that is charming flattery. You will make us all very conceited."

"Don't mock me, Miss Debree. I hoped I had awakened something more valuable to me than conceit,"
Lyon said, with a smile.

"You have, I assure you: gratitude. You have opened quite another world to us. Reading about
foreign life does not give one at all the same impression of it that seeing one who is a part
of it does."

"And don't you want to see that life for yourself? I hope some time--"

"Of course," Margaret said, interrupting; "all Americans expect to go to Europe. I have a friend
who says she should be mortified if she reached heaven and there had to confess that she never
had seen Europe. It is one of the things that is expected of a person. Though you know now
that the embarrassing question that everybody has to answer is, 'Have you been to Alaska?'
Have you been to Alaska, Mr. Lyon?"

This icy suggestion seemed very inopportune to Lyon. He rose and walked a step or two, and
stood by the fire facing her. He confessed, looking down, that he had not been in Alaska, and
he had no desire to go there. "In fact, Miss Debree," he said, with effort at speaking lightly,
"I fear I am not in a geographical mood today. I came to say good-by, and--and--"

"Shall I call my aunt?" said Margaret, rising also.

"No, I beg; I had something to say that concerns us; that is, that concerns myself. I couldn't
go away without knowing from you--that is, without telling you--"

The color rose in Margaret's cheek, and she made a movement of embarrassment, and said, with
haste: "Some other time; I beg you will not say--I trust that I have done nothing that--"

"Nothing, nothing," he went on quickly; "nothing except to be yourself; to be the one woman"--he
would not heed her hand raised in a gesture of protest; he stood nearer her now, his face flushed
and his eyes eager with determination--"the one woman I care for. Margaret, Miss Debree, I
love you!"

Her hand that rested on the table trembled, and the hot blood rushed to her face, flooding
her in an agony of shame, pleasure, embarrassment, and anger that her face should contradict
the want of tenderness in her eyes. In an instant self-possession came back to her mind, but
not strength to her body, and she sank into the chair, and looking up, with only pity in her
eyes, said, "I am sorry."

Lyon stopped; his heart seemed to stand still; the blood left his face; for an instant the
sunshine left the world. It was a terrible blow, the worst a man can receive--a bludgeon on
the head is nothing to it. He half turned, he looked again for an instant at the form that
was more to him than all the world besides, unable to face the dreadful loss, and recovering
speech, falteringly said, "Is that all?"

"That is all, Mr. Lyon," Margaret answered, not looking up, and in a voice that was perfectly
steady.

He turned to go mechanically, and passed to the door in a sort of daze, forgetful of all conventionality;
but habit is strong, and he turned almost immediately back from the passage. Margaret was still
sitting, with no recognition of his departure.

"I beg you will make my excuses, and say good-by to Miss Forsythe. I had mentioned it to her.
I thought perhaps she had told you, perhaps--I should like to know if it is anything about
difference in--in nationality, about family, or--"

"No, no," said Margaret; "this could never be anything but a personal question with me. I--"

"But you said, 'some other time:' Might I ever expect--"

"No, no; there is no other time; do not go on. It can only be painful."

And then, with a forced cheerfulness: "You will no doubt thank me some day. Your life must
be so different from mine. And you must not doubt my esteem, my appreciation," (her sense of
justice forced this from her), "my good wishes. Good-by." She gave him her hand. He held it
for a second, and then was gone.

She heard his footstep, rapid and receding. So he had really gone! She was not sorry--no. If
she could have loved him! She sank back in her chair.

No, she could not love him. The man to command her heart must be of another type. But the greatest
experience in a woman's life had come to her here, just now, in this commonplace room. A man
had said he loved her. A thousand times as a girl she had dreamed of that, hardly confessing
it to herself, and thought of such a scene, and feared it. And a man had said that he loved
her. Her eyes grew tenderer and her face burned at the thought. Was it with pleasure? Yes,
and with womanly pain. What an awful thing it was! Why couldn't he have seen? A man had said
he loved her. Perhaps it was not in her to love any one. Perhaps she should live on and on
like her aunt Forsythe. Well, it was over; and Margaret roused herself as her aunt entered
the room.

"Has Mr. Lyon been here?"

"Yes; he has just gone. He was so sorry not to see you and say good-by. He left ever so many
messages for you."

"And" (Margaret was moving as if to go) "did he say nothing--nothing to you?"

"Oh yes, he said a great deal," answered this accomplished hypocrite, looking frankly in her
aunt's eyes. "He said how delightful his visit had been, and how sorry he was to go."

"And nothing else, Margaret?"

"Oh yes; he said he was going to Washington." And the girl was gone from the room.

VI

Margaret hastened to her chamber. Was the air oppressive? She opened the window and sat down
by it. A soft south wind was blowing, eating away the remaining patches of snow; the sky was
full of fleecy clouds. Where do these days come from in January? Why should nature be in a
melting mood? Margaret instinctively would have preferred a wild storm, violence, anything
but this elemental languor. Her emotion was incredible to herself.

It was only an incident. It had all happened in a moment, and it was over. But it was the first
of the kind in a woman's life. The thrilling, mysterious word had been dropped into a woman's
heart. Hereafter she would be changed. She never again would be as she was before. Would her
heart be hardened or softened by the experience? She did not love him; that was clear. She
had done right; that was clear. But he had said he loved her. Unwittingly she was following
him in her thought. She had rejected plain John Lyon, amiable, intelligent, unselfish, kindly,
deferential. She had rejected also the Earl of Chisholm, a conspicuous position, an honorable
family, luxury, a great opportunity in life. It came to the girl in a flash. She moved nervously
in her chair. She put down the thought as unworthy of her. But she had entertained it for a
moment. In that second, ambition had entered the girl's soul. She had a glimpse of her own
nature that seemed new to her. Was this, then, the meaning of her restlessness, of her charitable
activities, of her unconfessed dreams of some career? Ambition had entered her soul in a definite
form. She expelled it. It would come again in some form or other. She was indignant at herself
as she thought of it. How odd it was! Her privacy had been invaded. The even tenor of her life
had been broken. Henceforth would she be less or more sensitive to the suggestion of love,
to the allurements of ambition? Margaret tried, in accordance with her nature, to be sincere
with herself.

After all, what nonsense it was! Nothing really had happened. A stranger of a few weeks before
had declared himself. She did not love him; he was no more to her than any other man. It was
a common occurrence. Her judgment accorded with her feeling in what she had done. How was she
to know that she had made a mistake, if mistake it was? How was she to know that this hour
was a crisis in her life? Surely the little tumult would pass; surely the little whisper of
worldliness could not disturb her ideals. But all the power of exclusion in her mind could
not exclude the returning thought of what might have been if she had loved him. Alas! in that
moment was born in her heart something that would make the idea of love less simple than it
had been in her mind. She was heart-free, but her nature was too deep not to be profoundly
affected by this experience.

Looking back upon this afternoon in the light of after-years, she probably could not feel--no
one could say--that she had done wrong. How was she to tell? Why is it that to do the right
thing is often to make the mistake of a life? Nothing could have been nobler than for Margaret
indignantly to put aside a temptation that her heart told her was unworthy. And yet if she
had yielded to it?

I ought to ask pardon, perhaps, for dwelling upon a thing so slight as the entrance of a thought
in a woman's life. For as to Margaret, she seemed unchanged. She made no sign that anything
unusual had occurred. We only knew that Mr. Lyon went away less cheerful than he usually was,
that he said nothing of returning in response to our invitations, and that he seemed to anticipate
nothing but the fulfillment of a duty in his visit to Washington.

What had happened was regarded as only an episode. In fact, however, I doubt if there are any
episodes in our lives, any asides, that do not permanently affect our entire career. Are not
the episodes, the casual thoughts, the fortuitous, unplanned meetings, the brief and maybe
at the moment unnoted events, those which exercise the most influence on our destiny? To all
observation the career of Lyon, and not of Margaret, was most affected by their interview.
But often the implanting of an idea in the mind is more potent than the frustration of a plan
or the gratification of a desire, so hidden are the causes that make character.

For some time I saw little of Margaret. Affairs in which I was not alone or chiefly concerned
took me from home. One of the most curious and interesting places in the world is a Chamber
in the business heart of New York--if that scene of struggle and passion can be said to have
a heart--situated midway where the currents of eagerness to acquire the money of other people,
not to make it, ceaselessly meet and dash against each other. If we could suppose there was
a web covering this region, spun by the most alert and busy of men to catch those less alert
and more productive, here in this Chamber would sit the ingenious spiders. But the analogy
fails, for spiders do not prey upon each other. Scientists say that the human system has two
nerve-centres--one in the brain, to which and from which are telegraphed all movements depending
upon the will, and another in the small of the back, the centre of the involuntary operations
of respiration, digestion, and so on. It may be fanciful to suppose that in the national system
Washington is the one nervous centre and New York the other. And yet it does sometimes seem
that the nerves and ganglions in the small of the back in the commercial metropolis act automatically
and without any visible intervention of intelligence. For all that, their operations may be
as essential as the other, in which the will-power sometimes gets into a deadlock, and sometimes
telegraphs the most eccentric and incomprehensible orders. Puzzled by these contradictions,
some philosophers have said that there may be somewhere outside of these two material centres
another power that keeps affairs moving along with some steadiness.

This noble Chamber has a large irregular area of floor space, is very high, and has running
round three sides a narrow elevated gallery, from which spectators can look down upon the throng
below. Upon a raised dais at one side sits the presiding genius of the place, who rules very
much as Jupiter was supposed to govern the earthly swarms, by letting things run and occasionally
launching a thunderbolt. High up on one side, in an Olympian seclusion, away from the noise
and the strife, sits a Board, calm as fate, and panoplied in the responsibility of chance,
whose function seems to be that of switch-shifters in their windowed cubby at a network of
railway intersections--to prevent collisions.

At both ends of the floor and along one side are narrow railed-off spaces full of clerks figuring
at desks, of telegraph operators clicking their machines, of messenger-boys arriving and departing
in haste, of unprivileged operators nervously watching the scene and waiting the chance of
a word with some one on the floor; through noiseless swinging doors men are entering and departing
every moment--men in a hurry, men with anxious faces, conscious that the fate of the country
is in their hands. On the floor itself are five hundred, perhaps a thousand, men, gathered
for the most part in small groups about little stands upon the summit of which is a rallying
legend, talking, laughing, screaming, good-natured, indifferent, excited, running hither and
thither in response to changing figures in the checker-board squares on the great wall opposite--calm,
cynical one moment, the next violently agitated, shouting, gesticulating, rushing together,
shaking their fists in a tumult of passion which presently subsides.

The swarms ebb and flow about these little stands--bees, not bringing any honey, but attracted
to the hive where it is rumored most honey is to be had. By habit some always stand or sit
about a particular hive, waiting for the show of comb. By-and-by there is a stir; the crowd
thickens; one beardless youth shouts out the figure "one-half"; another howls, "three-eighths."
The first one nods. It is done. The electric wire running up the stand quivers and takes the
figure, passes it to all the other wires, transmits it to every office and hotel in the city,
to all the "tickers" in ten thousand chambers and "bucketshops" and offices in the republic.
Suddenly on the bulletin-boards in New Orleans, Chicago, San Francisco, Podunk, Liverpool,
appear the mysterious "three-eighths," electrifying the watchers of these boards, who begin
to jabber and gesticulate and "transact business." It is wonderful.

What induced the beardless young man to make this "investment" in "three-eighths"--who can
tell? Perhaps he had heard, as he came into the room, that the Secretary of the Treasury was
going to make a call of Fives; perhaps he had heard that Bismarck had said that the French
blood was too thin and needed a little more iron; perhaps he had heard that a norther in Texas
had killed a herd of cattle, or that two grasshoppers had been seen in the neighborhood of
Fargo, or that Jay Hawker had been observed that morning hurrying to his brokers with a scowl
on his face and his hat pulled over his eyes. The young man sold what he did not have, and
the other young man bought what he will never get.

This is business of the higher and almost immaterial sort, and has an element of faith in it,
and, as one may say, belief in the unseen, whence it is characterized by an expression--"dealing
in futures." It is not gambling, for there are no "chips" used, and there is no roulette-table
in sight, and there are no piles of money or piles of anything else. It is not a lottery, for
there is no wheel at which impartial men preside to insure honest drawings, and there are no
predestined blanks and prizes, and the man who buys and the man who sells can do something,
either in the newspapers or elsewhere, to affect the worth of the investment, whereas in a
lottery everything depends upon the turn of the blind wheel. It is not necessary, however,
to attempt a defense of the Chamber. It is one of the recognized ways of becoming important
and powerful in this world. The privilege of the floor--a seat, as it is called--in this temple
of the god Chance to be Rich is worth more than a seat in the Cabinet. It is not only true
that a fortune may be made here in a day or lost here in a day, but that a nod and a wink here
enable people all over the land to ruin others or ruin themselves with celerity. The relation
of the Chamber to the business of the country is therefore evident. If an earthquake should
suddenly sink this temple and all its votaries into the bowels of the earth, with all its nervousness
and all its electricity, it is appalling to think what would become of the business of the country.

Not far from this vast Chamber, where great financial operations are conducted on the highest
principles of honor, and with the strictest regard to the Marquis of Dusenbury's rules, there
is another less pretentious Chamber, known as "open," a sort of overflow meeting. Those who
have not quite left hope behind can go in here. Here are the tickers communicating with the
Chamber, tended by lads, who transfer the figures to big blackboards on the wall. In front
of these boards sit, from morning to night, rows, perhaps relays, of men intently or listlessly
watching the figures. Many of them, who seldom make a sign, come here from habit; they have
nowhere else to go. Some of them were once lords in the great Chamber, who have been, as the
phrase is, "cleaned out." There is a gray-bearded veteran in seedy clothes, with sunken fiery
eyes, who was once many times a millionaire, was a power in the Board, followed by reporters,
had a palace in the Avenue, and drove to his office with coachman and footman in livery, and
his wife headed the list of charities. Now he spends his old age watching this blackboard,
and considers it a good day that brings him five dollars and his car-fare. At one end of the
low-ceiled apartment are busy clerks behind a counter, alert and cheerful. If one should go
through a side door and down a passage he might encounter the smell of rum. Smart young men,
clad in the choicest raiment from the misfit counters, with greed stamped on their astute faces,
bustle about, watch the blackboards, and make investments with each other. Middle-aged men
in slouch hats lounge around with hungry eyes. The place is feverish rather than exciting.
A tall fellow, whose gait and clothes proclaim him English, with a hard face and lack-lustre
eyes, saunters about; his friends at home suppose he is making his fortune in America. A dapper
young gentleman, quite in the mode, and with the quick air of prosperity, rapidly enters the
room and confers with a clerk at the counter. He has the run of the Chamber, and is from the
great house of Flamm and Slamm. Perhaps he is taking a "flier" on his own account, perhaps
he represents his house in a side transaction; there are so many ways open to enterprising
young men in the city; at any rate, his entrance is regarded as significant: This is not a
hospital for the broken down and "cleaned out" of the Chamber, but it is a place of business,
which is created and fed by the incessant "ticker." How men existed or did any business at
all before the advent of the "ticker" is a wonder.

But the Chamber, the creator of low-pressure and high-pressure, the inspirer of the "ticker,"
is the great generator of business. Here I found Henderson in the morning hour, and he came
up to me on the call of a messenger. He approached, nonchalant and smiling as usual. "Do you
see that man," he said, as we stood a moment looking down, "sitting there on a side bench--big
body, small head, hair grayish, long beard parted--apparently taking no interest in anything?

"That's Flink, who made the corner in O. B.--one of the longest-headed operators in the Chamber.
He is about the only man who dare try a hold with Jay Hawker. And for some reason or another,
though they have apparent tussles, Hawker rather favors him. Five years ago he could just raise
money enough to get into the Chamber. Now he is reckoned at anywhere from five to ten millions.
I was at his home the other night. Everybody was there. I had a queer feeling, in all the magnificence,
that the sheriff might be in there in ten days. Yet he may own a good slice of the island in
ten years. His wife, whom I complimented, and who thanked me for coming, said she had invited
none but the reshershy."

"He looks like a rascal," I ventured to remark.

"Oh, that is not a word used in the Chamber. He is called a 'daisy.' I was put into his pew
in church the other Sunday, and the preacher described him and his methods so exactly that
I didn't dare look at him. When we came out he whispered, 'That was rather hard on Slack; he
must have felt it.' These men rather like that sort of preaching."

"I don't come here often," Henderson resumed, as we walked away. "The market is flat today.
There promised to be a little flurry in L. and P., and I looked in for a customer."

We walked to his down-town club to lunch. Everybody, I noticed, seemed to know Henderson, and
his presence was hailed with a cordial smile, a good-humored nod, or a hearty grasp of the
hand. I never knew a more prepossessing man; his bonhomie was infectious. Though his demeanor
was perfectly quiet and modest, he carried the air of good-fellowship. He was entirely frank,
cordial, and had that sort of sincerity which one can afford to have who does not take life
too seriously. Tall--at least six feet-with a well-shaped head set on square shoulders, brown
hair inclined to curl, large blue eyes which could be merry or exceedingly grave, I thought
him a picture of manly beauty. Good-natured, clever, prosperous, and not yet thirty. What a dower!

After we had disposed of our little matter of business, which I confess was not exactly satisfactory
to me, although when I was told that "the first bondholders will be obliged to come in," he
added that "of course we shall take care of our friends," we went to his bachelor quarters
uptown. "I want you to see," he said, "how a hermit lives."

The apartments were not my idea of a hermitage--except in the city. A charming library, spacious,
but so full as to be cozy, with an open fire; chamber, dressing-room, and bathroom connecting,
furnished with everything that a luxurious habit could suggest and good taste would not refuse,
made a retreat that could almost reconcile a sinner to solitude. There were a few good paintings,
many rare engravings, on the walls, a notable absence, even in the sleeping-room, of photographs
of actresses and professional beauties, but here and there souvenirs of travel and evidences
that the gentler sex had contributed the skill of their slender fingers to the cheerfulness
of the bachelor's home. Scattered about were the daily and monthly products of the press, the
newest sensations, the things talked about at dinners, but the walls for the most part were
lined with books that are recognized as the proper possessions of the lover of books, and most
of them in exquisite bindings. Less care, I thought, had been given in the collection to "sets"
of "standards" than to those that are rare, or for some reason, either from distinguished ownership
or autograph notes, have a peculiar value.

In this atmosphere, when we were prepared to take our ease, the talk was no longer of stocks,
or railways, or schemes, but of books. Whether or not Henderson loved literature I did not
then make up my mind, but he had a passion for books, especially for rare and first editions;
and the delight with which he exhibited his library, the manner in which he handled the books
that he took down one after the other, the sparkle in his eyes over a "find" or a bargain,
gave me a side of his character quite different from that I should have gained by seeing him
"in the street" only. He had that genuine respect and affection for a "book" which has become
almost traditional in these days of cheap and flimsy publications, a taste held by scholars
and collectors, and quite beyond the popular comprehension. The respect for a book is essential
to the dignity and consideration of the place of literature in the world, and when books are
treated with no more regard than the newspaper, it is a sign that literature is losing its
power. Even the collector, who may read little and care more for the externals than for the
soul of his favorites, by the honor he pays them, by the solicitude he expends upon their preservation
without spot, by the lavishness of expense upon binding, contributes much to the dignity of
that art which preserves for the race the continuity of its thought and development. If Henderson
loved books merely as a collector whose taste for luxury and expense takes this direction,
his indulgence could not but have a certain refining influence. I could not see that he cultivated
any decided specialty, but he had many rare copies which had cost fabulous prices, the possession
of which gives a reputation to any owner. "My shelves of Americana," he said, "are nothing
like Goodloe's, who has a lot of scarce things that I am hoping to get hold of some day. But
there's a little thing" (it was a small coffee-colored tract of six leaves, upon which the
binder of the city had exercised his utmost skill) "which Goodloe offered me five hundred dollars
for the other day. I picked it up in a New Hampshire garret." Not the least interesting part
of the collection was first editions of American authors--a person's value to a collector is
often in proportion to his obscurity--and what most delighted him among them were certain thin
volumes of poetry, which the authors since becoming famous had gone to a good deal of time
and expense to suppress. The world seems to experience a lively pleasure in holding a man to
his early follies. There were many examples of superb binding, especially of exquisite tooling
on hog-skin covers--the appreciation of which has lately greatly revived. The recent rage for
bindings has been a sore trouble to students and collectors in special lines, raising the prices
of books far beyond their intrinsic value. I had a charming afternoon in Henderson's library,
an enjoyment not much lessened at the time by experiencing in it, with him, rather a sense
of luxury than of learning. It is true, one might pass an hour altogether different in the
garret of a student, and come away with quite other impressions of the pageant of life.

At five o'clock his stylish trap was sent around from the boarding stable, and we drove in
the Park till twilight. Henderson handling the reins, and making a part of that daily display
which is too heterogeneous to have distinction, reverted quite naturally to the tone of worldliness
and tolerant cynicism which had characterized his conversation in the morning. If the Park
and the moving assemblage had not the air of distinction, it had that of expense, which is
quite as attractive to many. Here, as downtown, my companion seemed to know and be known by
everybody, returning the familiar salutes of brokers and club men, receiving gracious bows
from stout matrons, smiles and nods from pretty women, and more formal recognition from stately
and stiff elderly men, who sat bolt-upright beside their wives and tried to look like millionaires.
For every passerby Henderson had a quick word of characterization sufficiently amusing, and
about many a story which illuminated the social life of the day. It was wonderful how many
of this chance company had little "histories"--comic, tragic, pitiful, interesting enough for
the pages of a novel.

"There is a young lady"--Henderson touched his hat, and I caught a glimpse of golden hair and
a flash of dark eyes out of a mass of furs--"who has no history: the world is all before her."

"Who is that?"

"The daughter of old Eschelle--Carmen Eschelle--the banker and politician, you remember; had
a diplomatic position abroad, and the girl was educated in Europe. She is very clever. She
and her mother have more money than they ought to know what to do with."

"That was the celebrated Jay Hawker" ( a moment after), "in the modest coupe--not much display
about him."

"Is he recognized by respectable people?"

"Recognized?" Henderson laughed. "He's a power. There are plenty of people who live by trying
to guess what he is going to do. Hawker isn't such a bad fellow. Other people have used the
means he used to get rich and haven't succeeded. They are not held up to point a moral. The
trouble is that Hawker succeeded. Of course, it's a game. He plays as fair as anybody."

"Yes," Henderson resumed, walking his horses in sight of the obelisk, which suggested the long
continuance of the human race, "it is the same old game, and it is very interesting to those
who are in it. Outsiders think it is all greed. In the Chamber it is a good deal the love of
the game, to watch each other, to find out a man's plans, to circumvent him, to thwart him,
to start a scheme and manipulate it, to catch somebody, to escape somebody; it is a perpetual
excitement."

"The machine in the Chamber appears to run very smoothly," I said. "Oh, that is a public register
and indicator. The system back of it is comprehensive, and appears to be complicated, but it
is really very simple. Spend an hour some day in the office of Flamm and Slamm, and you will
see a part of the system. There are, always a number of men watching the blackboard, figures
on which are changed every minute by the attendants. Telegrams are constantly arriving from
every part of the Union, from all over the continent, from all the centres in Europe, which
are read by some one connected with the firm, and then displayed for the guidance of the watchers
of the blackboard. Upon this news one or another says, 'I think I'll buy,' or 'I think I'll
sell,' so and so. His order is transmitted instantly to the Chamber. In two minutes the result
comes back and appears upon the blackboard."

"But where does the news come from?"

"From the men whose special business it is to pick it up or make it. They are inside of politics,
of the railways, of the weather bureau, everywhere. The other day in Chicago I sat some time
in a broker's office with others watching the market, and dropped into conversation with a
bright young fellow, at whose right hand, across the rail, was a telegraph operator at the
end of a private wire. Soon a man came in quietly, and whispered in the ear of my neighbor
and went out. The young fellow instantly wrote a despatch and handed it to the operator, and
turning to me, said, 'Now watch the blackboard.'

"In an incredibly short space of time a fall in a leading railway showed on the blackboard.
'What was it?' I asked. 'Why, that man was the general freight manager of the A. B. road. He
told me that they were to cut rates. I sent it to New York by a private wire.' I learned by
further conversation that my young gentleman was a Manufacturer of News, and that such was
his address and intelligence that though he was not a member of the broker's firm, he made
ten thousand a year in the business. Soon another man came in, whispered his news, and went
away. Another despatch--another responsive change in the figures. 'That,' explained my companion,
'was a man connected with the weather bureau. He told me that there would be a heavy frost
tonight in the Northwest.'"

"Do they sell the weather?" I asked, very much amused.

"Yes, twice; once over a private wire, and then to the public, after the value of it has been
squeezed out, in the shape of predictions. Oh, the weather bureau is worth all the money it
costs, for business purposes. It is a great auxiliary."

Dining that evening with Henderson at his club, I had further opportunity to study a representative
man. He was of a good New Hampshire family, exceedingly respectable without being distinguished.
Over the chimney-place in the old farmhouse hung a rusty Queen Anne that had been at the taking
of Louisburg. His grandfather shouldered a musket at Bunker Hill; his father, the youngest
son, had been a judge as well as a farmer, and noted for his shrewdness and reticence. Rodney,
inheriting the thrift of his ancestors, had pushed out from his home, adapting this thrift
to the modern methods of turning it to account. He had brought also to the city the stamina
of three generations of plain living--a splendid capital, by which the city is constantly reinforced,
and which one generation does not exhaust, except by the aid of extreme dissipation. With sound
health, good ability, and fair education, he had the cheerful temperament which makes friends,
and does not allow their misfortunes to injure his career. Generous by impulse, he would rather
do a favor than not, and yet he would be likely to let nothing interfere with any object he
had in view for himself. Inheriting a conventional respect for religion and morality, he was
not so bigoted as to rebuke the gayety of a convivial company, nor so intractable as to make
him an uncomfortable associate in any scheme, according to the modern notions of business,
that promised profit. His engaging manner made him popular, and his good-natured adroitness
made him successful. If his early experience of life caused him to be cynical, he was not bitterly
so; his cynicism was of the tolerant sort that does not condemn the world and withdraw from
it, but courts it and makes the most of it, lowering his private opinion of men in proportion
as he is successful in the game he plays with them. At this period I could see that he had
determined to be successful, and that he had not determined to be unscrupulous. He would only
drift with the tide that made for fortune. He enjoyed the world--a sufficient reason why the
world should like him. His business morality was gauged by what other people do in similar
circumstances. In short, he was a product of the period since the civil war closed, that great
upheaval of patriotic feeling and sacrifice, which ended in so much expansion and so many opportunities.
If he had remained in New Hampshire he would probably have been a successful politician, successful
not only in keeping in place, but in teaching younger aspirants that serving the country is
a very good way to the attainment of luxury and the consideration that money brings. But having
chosen the law as a stepping-stone to the lobby, to speculation, and the manipulation of chances,
he had a poor opinion of politics and of politicians. His success thus far, though considerable,
had not been sufficient to create for him powerful enemies, so that he may be said to be admired
by all and feared by none. In the general opinion he was a downright good fellow and amazingly
clever.

VII

In youth, as at the opera, everything seems possible. Surely it is not necessary to choose
between love and riches. One may have both, and the one all the more easily for having attained
the other. It must be a fiction of the moralists who construct the dramas that the god of love
and the god of money each claims an undivided allegiance. It was in some wholly legendary,
perhaps spiritual, world that it was necessary to renounce love to gain the Rhine gold. The
boxes at the Metropolitan did not believe this. The spectators of the boxes could believe it
still less. For was not beauty there seen shining in jewels that have a market value, and did
not love visibly preside over the union, and make it known that his sweetest favors go with
a prosperous world? And yet, is the charm of life somewhat depending upon a sense of its fleetingness,
of its phantasmagorial character, a note of coming disaster, maybe, in the midst of its most
seductive pageantry, in the whirl and glitter and hurry of it? Is there some subtle sense of
exquisite satisfaction in snatching the sweet moments of life out of the very delirium of it,
that must soon end in an awakening to bankruptcy of the affections, and the dreadful loss of
illusions? Else why do we take pleasure--a pleasure so deep that it touches the heart like
melancholy--in the common drama of the opera? How gay and joyous is the beginning! Mirth, hilarity,
entrancing sound, brilliant color, the note of a trumpet calling to heroism, the beseeching
of the concordant strings, and the soft flute inviting to pleasure; scenes placid, pastoral,
innocent; light-hearted love, the dance on the green, the stately pageant in the sunlit streets,
the court, the ball, the mad splendor of life. And then love becomes passion, and passion thwarted
hurries on to sin, and sin lifts to the heights of the immortal, sweetly smiling gods, and
plunges to the depths of despair. In vain the orchestra, the inevitable accompaniment of life,
warns and pleads and admonishes; calm has gone, and gayety has gone; there is no sweetness
now but in the wildness of surrender and of sacrifice. How sad are the remembered strains that
aforetime were incentives to love and promises of happiness! Gloom settles upon the scene;
Mephisto, the only radiant one, flits across it, and mocks the poor broken-hearted girl clinging
to the church door. There is a dungeon, the chanting of the procession of tonsured priests,
the passing-bell. Seldom appears the golden bridge over which the baffled and tired pass into
Valhalla.

Do we like this because it is life, or because there is a certain satisfaction in seeing the
tragedy which impends over all, pervades the atmosphere, as it were, and adds something of
zest to the mildest enjoyment? Should we go away from the mimic stage any, better and stronger
if the drama began in the dungeon and ended on the greensward, with innocent love and resplendent
beauty in possession of the Rhine gold?

How simple, after all, was the created world on the stage to the real world in the auditorium,
with its thousand complexities and dramatic situations, and if the little knot of players of
parts for an hour could have had leisure to be spectators of the audience, what a deeper revelation
of life would they not have seen! For the world has never assembled such an epitome of itself,
in its passion for pleasure and its passion for display, as in the modern opera, with its ranks
and tiers of votaries from the pit to the dome. I fancy that even Margaret, whose love for
music was genuine, was almost as much fascinated by the greater spectacle as by the less.

It was a crowded night, for the opera was one that appealed to the senses and stimulated them
to activity, and left the mind free to pursue its own schemes; in a word, orchestra and the
scenes formed a sort of accompaniment and interpreter to the private dramas in the boxes. The
opera was made for society, and not society for the opera. We occupied a box in the second
tier--the Morgans, Margaret, and my wife. Morgan said that the glasses were raised to us from
the parquet and leveled at us from the loges because we were a country party, but he well enough
knew whose fresh beauty and enthusiastic young face it was that drew the fire when the curtain
fell on the first act, and there was for a moment a little lull in the hum of conversation.

"I had heard," Morgan was saying, "that the opera was not acclimated in New York; but it is
nearly so. The audience do not jabber so loud nor so incessantly as at San Carlo, and they
do not hum the airs with the singers--"

"Perhaps," said my wife, "that is because they do not know the airs."

"But they are getting on in cultivation, and learning how to assert the social side of the
opera, which is not to be seriously interfered with by the music on the stage."

"But the music, the scenery, were never before so good," I replied to these cynical observations.

"That is true. And the social side has risen with it. Do you know what an impudent thing the
managers did the other night in protesting against the raising of the lights by which the house
was made brilliant and the cheap illusions of the stage were destroyed? They wanted to make
the house positively gloomy for the sake of a little artificial moonlight on the painted towers
and the canvas lakes."

As the world goes, the scene was brilliant, of course with republican simplicity. The imagination
was helped by no titled names any more than the eye was by the insignia of rank, but there
was a certain glow of feeling, as the glass swept the circle, to know that there were ten millions
in this box, and twenty in the next, and fifty in the next, attested well enough by the flash
of jewels and the splendor of attire, and one might indulge a genuine pride in the prosperity
of the republic. As for beauty, the world, surely, in this later time, had flowered here--flowered
with something of Aspasia's grace and something of the haughty coldness of Agrippina. And yet
it was American. Here and there in the boxes was a thoroughbred portrait by Copley--the long
shapely neck, the sloping shoulders, the drooping eyelids, even to the gown in which the great-grandmother
danced with the French officers.

"Who is that lovely creature?" asked Margaret, indicating a box opposite.

I did not know. There were two ladies, and behind them I had no difficulty in making out Henderson
and--Margaret evidently had not seen him Mr. Lyon. Almost at the same moment Henderson recognized
me, and signaled for me to come to his box. As I rose to do so, Mrs. Morgan exclaimed: "Why,
there is Mr. Lyon! Do tell him we are here." I saw Margaret's color rise, but she did not speak.

I was presented to Mrs. Eschelle and her daughter; in the latter I recognized the beauty who
had flashed by us in the Park. The elder lady inclined to stoutness, and her too youthful apparel
could not mislead one as to the length of her pilgrimage in this world, nor soften the hard
lines of her worldly face-lines acquired, one could see, by a social struggle, and not drawn
there by an innate patrician insolence.

"We are glad to see a friend of Mr. Henderson's," she said, "and of Mr. Lyon's also. Mr. Lyon
has told us much of your charming country home. Who is that pretty girl in your box, Mr. Fairchild?"

Miss Eschelle had her glass pointed at Margaret as I gave the desired information.

"How innocent!" she murmured. "And she's quite in the style--isn't she, Mr. Lyon?" she asked,
turning about, her sweet mobile face quite the picture of what she was describing. "We are
all innocent in these days."

"It is a very good style," I said.

"Isn't it becoming?" asked the girl, making her dark eyes at once merry and demure.

Mr. Lyon was looking intently at the opposite box, and a slight shade came over his fine face.
"Ah, I see!"

"I beg your pardon, Miss Eschelle," he said, after a second, "I hardly know which to admire
most, the beauty, or the wit, or the innocence of the American women."

"There is nothing so confusing, though, as the country innocence," the girl said, with the
most natural air; "it never knows where to stop."

"You are too absurd, Carmen," her mother interposed; "as if the town girl did!"

"Well, mamma, there is authority for saying that there is a time for everything, only one must
be in the fashion, you know."

Mr. Lyon looked a little dubious at this turn of the talk; Mr. Henderson was as evidently amused
at the girl's acting. I said I was glad to see that goodness was in fashion.

"Oh, it often is. You know we were promised a knowledge of good as well as evil. It depends
upon the point of view. I fancy, now, that Mr. Henderson tolerates the good--that is the reason
we get on so well together; and Mr. Lyon tolerates the evil--that's the reason he likes New
York. I have almost promised him that I will have a mission school."

The girl looked quite capable of it, or of any other form of devotion. Notwithstanding her
persistent banter, she had a most inviting innocence of manner, almost an ingenuousness, that
well became her exquisite beauty. And but for a tentative daring in her talk, as if the gentle
creature were experimenting as to how far one could safely go, her innocence might have seemed
that of ignorance.

It came out in the talk that Mr. Lyon had been in Washington for a week, and would return there
later on.

"We had a claim on him," said Mrs. Eschelle, "for his kindness to us in London, and we are
trying to convince him that New York is the real capital."

"Unfortunately," added Miss Eschelle, looking up in Mr. Lyon's face, "he visited Brandon first,
and you seem to have bewitched him with your simple country ways. I can get him to talk of
nothing else."

"You mean to say," Mr. Lyon replied, with the air of retorting, "that you have asked me about
nothing else."

"Oh, you know we felt a little responsible for you; and there is no place so dangerous as the
country. Now here you are protected--we put all the wickedness on the stage, and learn to recognize
and shun it."

"It may be wicked," said her mother, "but it is dull. Don't you find it so, Mr. Henderson?
I am passionately fond of Wagner, but it is too noisy for anything tonight."

"I notice, dear," the dutiful daughter replied for all of us, "that you have to raise your
voice. But there is the ballet. Let us all listen now."

Mr. Lyon excused himself from going with me, saying that he would call at our hotel, and I
took Henderson. "I shall count the minutes you are going to lose," the girl said as we went
out-to our box. The lobbies in the interact were thronged with men--for the most part the young
speculators of the Chamber turned into loungers in the foyer--knowing, alert, attitudinizing
in the extreme of the mode, unable even in this hour to give beauty the preference to business,
well knowing, perhaps, that beauty itself in these days has a fine eye for business.

I liked Henderson better in our box than in his own. Was it because the atmosphere was more
natural and genuine? Or was it Margaret's transparent nature, her sincere enjoyment of the
scene, her evident pleasure in the music, the color, the gayety of the house, that made him
drop the slight cynical air of the world which had fitted him so admirably a moment before?
He already knew my wife and the Morgans, and, after the greetings were made, he took a seat
by Margaret, quite content while the act was going on to watch its progress in the play of
her responsive features. How quickly she felt, how the frown followed the smile, how, she seemed
to weigh and try to apprehend the meaning of what went on--how her every sense enjoyed life!

"It is absurd," she said, turning her bright face to him when the curtain dropped, "to be so
interested in fictitious trouble."

"I'm not so sure that it is," he replied, in her own tone; "the opera is a sort of pulpit,
and not seldom preaches an awful sermon--more plainly than the preacher dares to make it."

"But not in nomine Dei."

"No. But who can say what is most effective? I often wonder, as I watch the congregations coming
from the churches on the Avenue, if they are any more solemnized than the audiences that pour
out of this house. I confess that I cannot shake off 'Lohengrin' in a good while after I hear it."

"And so you think the theatres have a moral influence?"

"Honestly"--and I heard his good-natured laugh--"I couldn't swear to that. But then we don't
know what New York might be without them."

"I don't know," said Margaret, reflectively, "that my own good impulses, such as I have, are
excited by anything I see on the stage; perhaps I am more tolerant, and maybe toleration is
not good. I wonder if I should grow worldly, seeing more of it?"

"Perhaps it is not the stage so much as the house," Henderson replied, beginning to read the
girl's mind.

"Yes, it would be different if one came alone and saw the play, unconscious of the house, as
if it were a picture. I think it is the house that disturbs one, makes one restless and discontented."

"I never analyzed my emotions," said Henderson, "but when I was a boy and came to the theatre
I well remember that it made me ambitious; every sort of thing seemed possible of attainment
in the excitement of the crowded house, the music, the lights, the easy successes on the stage;
nothing else is more stimulating to a lad; nothing else makes the world more attractive."

"And does it continue to have the same effect, Mr. Henderson?"

"Hardly," and he smiled; "the illusion goes, and the stage is about as real as the house--usually
less interesting. It can hardly compete with the comedy in the boxes."

"Perhaps it is lack of experience, but I like the play for itself."

"Oh yes; desire for the dramatic is natural. People will have it somehow. In the country village
where there are no theatres the people make dramas out of each other's lives; the most trivial
incidents are magnified and talked about--dramatized, in short."

"You mean gossiped about?"

"Well, you may call it gossip--nothing can be concealed; everybody knows about everybody else;
there is no privacy; everything is used to create that illusory spectacle which the stage tries
to give. I think that in the country village a good theatre would be a wholesome influence,
satisfy a natural appetite indicated by the inquisition into the affairs of neighbors, and
by the petty scandal."

"We are on the way to it," said Mr. Morgan, who sat behind them; "we have theatricals in the
church parlors, which may grow into a nineteenth century substitute for the miracle-plays.
You mustn't, Margaret, let Mr. Henderson prejudice you against the country."

"No," said the latter, quickly; "I was only trying to defend the city. We country people always
do that. We must base our theatrical life on something in nature."

"What is the difference, Mr. Henderson," asked Margaret, "between the gossip in the boxes and
the country gossip you spoke of?"

"In toleration mainly, and lack of exact knowledge. It is here rather cynical persiflage, not
concentrated public opinion."

"I don't follow you," said Morgan. "It seems to me that in the city you've got gossip plus
the stage."

"That is to say, we have the world."

"I don't like to believe that," said Margaret, seriously--"your definition of the world."

"You make me see that it was a poor jest," he said, rising to go. "By-the-way, we have a friend
of yours in our box tonight--a young Englishman."

"Oh, Mr. Lyon. We were all delighted with him. Such a transparent, genuine nature!"

"Tell him," said my wife, "that we should be happy to see him at our hotel."

When Henderson came back to his box Carmen did not look up, but she said, indifferently: "What,
so soon? But your absence has made one person thoroughly miserable. Mr. Lyon has not taken
his eyes off you. I never saw such an international attachment."

"What more could I do for Miss Eschelle than to leave her in such company?"

"I beg your pardon," said Lyon. "Miss Eschelle must believe that I thoroughly appreciate Mr.
Henderson's self-sacrifice. If I occasionally looked over where he was, I assure you it was
in pity."

"You are both altogether too self-sacrificing," the beauty replied, turning to Henderson a
look that was sweetly forgiving. "They who sin much shall be forgiven much, you know."

"That leaves me," Mr. Lyon answered, with a laugh, "as you say over here, out in the cold,
for I have passed a too happy evening to feel like a transgressor."

"The sins of omission are the worst sort," she retorted.

"You see what you must do to be forgiven," Henderson said to Lyon, with that good-natured smile
that was so potent to smooth away sharpness.

"I fear I can never do enough to qualify myself." And he also laughed.

"You never will," Carmen answered, but she accompanied the doubt with a witching smile that
denied it.

"What is all this about forgiveness?" asked Mrs. Eschelle, turning to them from regarding the
stage.

"Oh, we were having an experience meeting behind your back, mamma, only Mr. Henderson won't
tell his experience."

"Miss Eschelle is in such a forgiving humor tonight that she absolves before any one has a
chance to confess," he replied.

"Don't you think I am always so, Mr. Lyon?"

Mr. Lyon bowed. "I think that an opera-box with Miss Eschelle is the easiest confessional in
the world."

"That's something like a compliment. You see" (to Henderson) "how much you Americans have to
learn."

"Will you be my teacher?"

"Or your pupil," the girl said, in a low voice, standing near him as she rose.

The play was over. In the robing and descending through the corridors there were the usual
chatter, meaning looks, confidential asides. It is always at the last moment, in the hurry,
as in a postscript, that woman says what she means, or what for the moment she wishes to be
thought to mean. In the crowd on the main stairway the two parties saw each other at a distance,
but without speaking.

"Is it true that Lyon is 'epris' there?" Carmen whispered to Henderson when she had scanned
and thoroughly inventoried Margaret.

"You know as much as I do."

"Well, you did stay a long time," she said, in a lower tone.

As Margaret's party waited for their carriage she saw Mrs. Eschelle and her daughter enter
a shining coach, with footman and coachman in livery. Henderson stood raising his hat. A little
white hand was shaken to him from the window, and a sweet, innocent face leaned forward--a
face with dark, eyes and golden hair, lit up with a radiant smile. That face for the moment
was New York to Margaret, and New York seemed a vain show.

Carmen threw herself back in her seat as if weary. Mrs. Eschelle sat bolt-upright.

"What in the world, child, made you go on so tonight?"

"I don't know."

"What made you snub Mr. Lyon so often?"

"Did I? He won't mind much. Didn't you see, mother, that he was distrait the moment he espied
that girl? I'm not going to waste my time. I know the signs. No fisheries imbroglio for me,
thank you."

"Fish? Who said anything about fish?"

"Oh, the international business. Ask Mr. Henderson to explain it. The English want to fish
in our waters, I believe. I think Mr. Lyon has had a nibble from a fresh-water fish. Perhaps
it's the other way, and he's hooked. There be fishers of men, you know, mother."

"You are a strange child, Carmen. I hope you will be civil to both of them." And they rode
on in silence.

VIII

In real life the opera or the theatre is only the prologue to the evening. Our little party
supped at Delgardo's. The play then begins. New York is quite awake by that time, and ready
to amuse itself. After the public duty, the public attitudinizing, after assisting at the artificial
comedy and tragedy which imitate life under a mask, and suggest without satisfying, comes the
actual experience. My gentle girl--God bless your sweet face and pure heart!--who looked down
from the sky-parlor at the Metropolitan upon the legendary splendor of the stage, and the alluring
beauty and wealth of the boxes, and went home to create in dreams the dearest romance in a
maiden's life, you did not know that for many the romance of the night just began when the
curtain fell.

The streets were as light as day. At no other hour were the pavements so thronged, was there
such a crush of carriages, such a blockade of cars, such running, and shouting, greetings and
decorous laughter, such a swirl of pleasurable excitement. Never were the fashionable cafes
and restaurants so crowded and brilliant. It is not a carnival time; it is just the flow and
ebb of a night's pleasure, an electric night which has all of the morning except its peace,
a night of the gayest opportunity and unlimited possibility.

At each little table was a drama in progress, light or serious--all the more serious for being
light at the moment and unconsidered. Morgan, who was so well informed in the gossip of society
and so little involved in it--some men have this faculty, which makes them much more entertaining
than the daily newspaper--knew the histories of half the people in the room. There were an
Italian marquis and his wife supping together like lovers, so strong is the force of habit
that makes this public life necessary even when the domestic life is established. There is
a man who shot himself rather seriously on the doorsteps of the beauty who rejected him, and
in a year married the handsome and more wealthy woman who sits opposite him in that convivial
party. There is a Russian princess, a fair woman with cool observant eyes, making herself agreeable
to a mixed company in three languages. In this brilliant light is it not wonderful how dazzlingly
beautiful the women are--brunettes in yellow and diamonds, blondes in elaborately simple toilets,
with only a bunch of roses for ornament, in the flush of the midnight hour, in a radiant glow
that even the excitement and the lifted glass cannot heighten? That pretty girl yonder--is
she wife or widow?--slight and fresh and fair, they say has an ambition to extend her notoriety
by going upon the stage; the young lady with her, who does not seem to fear a public place,
may be helping her on the road. The two young gentlemen, their attendants, have the air of
taking life more seriously than the girls, but regard with respectful interest the mounting
vivacity of their companions, which rises and sparkles like the bubbles in the slender glasses
which they raise to their lips with the dainty grace of practice. The staid family parties
who are supping at adjoining tables notice this group with curiosity, and express their opinion
by elevated eyebrows.

Margaret leaned back in her chair and regarded the whole in a musing' frame of mind. I think
she apprehended nothing of it except the light, the color, the beauty, the movement of gayety.
For her the notes of the orchestra sounded through it all--the voices of the singers, the hum
of the house; it was all a spectacle and a play. Why should she not enjoy it? There was something
in the nature of the girl that responded to this form of pleasure--the legitimate pleasure
the senses take in being gratified. "It is so different," she said to me, "from the pleasure
one has in an evening by the fire. Do you know, even Mr. Morgan seems worldly here."

It was a deeper matter than she thought, this about worldliness, which had been raised in Margaret's
mind. Have we all double natures, and do we simply conform to whatever surrounds us? Is there
any difference in kind between the country worldliness and the city worldliness? I do not suppose
that Margaret formulated any of these ideas in words. Her knowledge of the city had hitherto
been superficial. It was a place for shopping, for a day in a picture exhibition, for an evening
in the theatre, no more a part of her existence than a novel or a book of travels: of the life
of the town she knew nothing. That night in her room she became aware for the first time of
another world, restless, fascinating, striving, full of opportunities. What must London be?

If we could only note the first coming into the mind of a thought that changes life and re-forms
character--supposing that every act and every new departure has this subtle beginning--we might
be less the sport of circumstances than we seem to be. Unnoted, the desire so swiftly follows
the thought and juggles with the will.

The next day Mr. Henderson left his card and a basket of roses. Mr. Lyon called. It was a constrained
visit. Margaret was cordially civil, and I fancied that Mr. Lyon would have been more content
if she had been less so. If he were a lover, there was little to please him in the exchange
of the commonplaces of the day.

"Yes," he was saying to my wife, "perhaps I shall have to change my mind about the simplicity
of your American life. It is much the same in New York and London. It is only a question of
more or less sophistication."

"Mr. Henderson tells us," said my wife, "that you knew the Eschelles in London."

"Yes. Miss Eschelle almost had a career there last season."

"Why almost?"

"Well--you will pardon me--one needs for success in these days to be not only very clever,
but equally daring. It is every day more difficult to make a sensation."

"I thought her, across the house," Margaret said, "very pretty and attractive. I did not know
you were so satirical, Mr. Lyon. Do you mean that one must be more daring, as you call it,
in London than in New York?"

"I hope it will not hurt your national pride, Miss Debree, if I say that there is always the
greater competition in the larger market."

"Oh, my pride," Margaret answered, "does not lie in that direction."

"And to do her justice, I don't think Miss Eschelle's does, either. She appears to be more
interested now in New York than in London."

He laughed as he said this, and Margaret laughed also, and then stopped suddenly, thinking
of the roses that came that morning. Could she be comparing the Londoner with the handsome
American who sat by her side at the opera last night? She was half annoyed with herself at
the thought.

"And are not you also interested in New York, Mr. Lyon?" my wife asked.

"Yes, moderately so, if you will permit me to say it." It was an effort on his part to keep
up the conversation, Margaret was so wholly unresponsive; and afterwards, knowing how affairs
stood with them, I could understand his well-bred misery. The hardest thing in the world is
to suffer decorously and make no sign in the midst of a society which insists on stoicism,
no matter how badly one is hurt. The Society for First Aid to the Injured hardens its heart
in these cases. "I have never seen another place," he continued, "where the women are so busy
in improving themselves. Societies, clubs, parlor lectures, readings, recitations, musicales,
classes--it fatigues one to keep in sight of them. Every afternoon, every evening, something.
I doubt if men are capable of such incessant energy, Mrs. Fairchild."

"And you find they have no time to be agreeable?"

"Quite the contrary. There is nothing they are not interesting in, nothing about which they
cannot talk, and talk intensely. They absorb everything, and have the gift of acquiring intelligence
without, as one of them told me, having to waste time in reading. Yes, it is a most interesting
city."

The coming in of Mr. Morgan gave another turn to the talk. He had been to see a rural American
play, an exhibition of country life and character, constructed in absolute disregard of any
traditions of the stage.

"I don't suppose," Mr. Morgan said, "a foreigner would understand it; it would be impossible
in Paris, incomprehensible in London."

"Yes, I saw it," said Mr. Lyon, thus appealed to. "It was very odd, and seemed to amuse the
audience immensely. I suppose one must be familiar with American farm life to see the points
of it. I confess that while I sat there, in an audience so keenly in sympathy with the play--almost
a part of it, one might say--I doubted if I understood your people as well as I thought I did
when I had been here a week only. Perhaps this is the beginning of an American drama."

"Some people say that it is."

"But it is so local!"

"Anything that is true must be true to local conditions, to begin with. The only question is,
is it true to human nature? What puzzled me in this American play was its raising the old question
of nature and art. You've seen Coquelin? Well, that is acting, as artificial as a sonnet, the
perfection of training, skill in an art. You never doubt that he is performing in a play for
the entertainment of an audience. You have the same enjoyment of it that you have of a picture--a
picture, I mean, full of character and sentiment, not a photograph. But I don't think of Denman
Thompson as an actor trained to perfection in a dramatic school, but as a New Hampshire farmer.
I don't admire his skill; I admire him. There is plenty that is artificial, vulgarly conventional,
in his play, plenty of imitation of the rustic that shows it is imitation, but he is the natural
man. If he is a stage illusion, he does not seem so to me." "Probably to an American audience
only he does not," Mr. Lyon remarked.

"Well, that is getting to be a tolerably large audience."

"I doubt if you will change the laws of art," said Mr. Lyon, rising to go.

"We shall hope to see you again at our house," my wife said.

"You are very good. I should like it; but my time is running out."

"If you cannot come, you may leave your adieus with Miss Debree, who is staying some time in
the city," my wife said, evidently to Margaret's annoyance. But she could do no less than give
him her city address, though the information was not accompanied by any invitation in her manner.

Margaret was to stay some time with two maiden ladies, old friends of her mother, the Misses
Arbuser. The Arbusers were people of consequence in their day, with a certain social prestige;
in fact, the excellent ladies were two generations removed from successful mercantile life,
which in the remote prospective took on an old-family solidity. Nowhere else in the city could
Margaret have come closer in contact with a certain phase of New York life in which women are
the chief actors--a phase which may be a transition, and may be only a craze. It is not so
much a condescension of society to literature as it is a discovery that literature and art,
in the persons of those who produce both, may be sources of amusement, or perhaps, to be just,
of the enlargement of the horizon and the improvement of the mind. The society mind was never
before so hospitable to new ideas and new sensations. Charities, boards of managers, missions,
hospitals, news-rooms, and lodging-houses for the illiterate and the homeless--these are not
sufficient, even with balls, dancing classes, and teas, for the superfluous energies of this
restless, improving generation; there must be also radical clubs, reading classes, study classes,
ethical, historical, scientific, literary lectures, the reading of papers by ladies of distinction
and gentlemen of special attainments--an unremitting pursuit of culture and information. Curiosity
is awake. The extreme of social refinement and a mild Bohemianism almost touch. It passes beyond
the affectation of knowing persons who write books and write for the press, artists in paint
and artists in music. "You cannot be sure in the most exclusive circle"--it was Carmen Eschelle
who said this--"that you will not meet an author or even a journalist." Not all the women,
however, adore letters or affect enthusiasm at drawing-room lectures; there are some bright
and cynical ones who do not, who write papers themselves, and have an air of being behind the
scenes.

Margaret had thought that she was fully occupied in the country, with her teaching, her reading,
her literature and historical clubs, but she had never known before what it was to be busy
and not have time for anything, always in pursuit of some new thing, and getting a fragment
here and there; life was a good deal like reading the dictionary and remembering none of the
words. And it was all so cosmopolitan and all-embracingly sympathetic. One day it was a paper
by a Servian countess on the social life of the Servians, absorbingly interesting both in itself
and because it was a countess who read it; and this was followed by the singing of an Icelandic
tenor and a Swedish soprano, and a recital on the violin by a slight, red-haired, middle-aged
woman from London. All the talents seem to be afloat and at the service of the strenuous ones
who are cultivating themselves.

The first function at which Margaret assisted in the long drawing-rooms of the Arbusers was
a serious one--one that combined the charm of culture with the temptations of benevolence.
The rooms were crowded with the fashion of the town, with a sprinkling of clergymen and of
thin philanthropic gentlemen in advanced years. It was a four-o'clock, and the assembly had
the cheerfulness of a reception, only that the display of toilets was felt to be sanctified
by a purpose. The performance opened with a tremendous prelude on the piano by Herr Bloomgarten,
who had been Liszt's favorite pupil; indeed, it was whispered that Liszt had said that, old
as he was, he never heard Bloomgarten without learning something. There was a good deal of
subdued conversation while the pianist was in his extreme agony of execution, and a hush of
extreme admiration--it was divine, divine, ravishing--when he had finished. The speaker was
a learned female pundit from India, and her object was to interest the women of America in
the condition of their unfortunate Hindoo sisters. It appeared that thousands and tens of thousands
of them were doomed to early and lifelong widowhood, owing to the operation of cruel caste
laws, which condemned even girls betrothed to deceased Brahmins to perpetual celibacy. This
fate could only be alleviated by the education and elevation of women. And money was needed
for schools, especially for medical schools, which would break down the walls of prejudice
and enfranchise the sex. The appeal was so charmingly made that every one was moved by it,
especially the maiden ladies present, who might be supposed to enter into the feelings of their
dusky sisters beyond the seas. The speaker said, with a touch of humor that always intensifies
a serious discourse, that she had been told that in one of the New England States there was
a superfluity of unmarried women; but this was an entirely different affair; it was a matter
of choice with these highly educated and accomplished women. And the day had come when woman
could make her choice! At this there was a great clapping of hands. It was one thing to be
free to lead a life of single self-culture, and quite another to be compelled to lead a single
fife without self-culture. The address was a great success, and much enthusiasm spread abroad
for the cause of the unmarried women of India.

In the audience were Mrs. Eschelle and her daughter. Margaret and Carmen were made acquainted,
and were drawn together by curiosity, and perhaps by a secret feeling of repulsion. Carmen
was all candor and sweetness, and absorbingly interested in the women of India, she said. With
Margaret's permission she would come and see her, for she believed they had common friends.

It would seem that there could not be much sympathy between natures so opposed, persons who
looked at life from such different points of view, but undeniably Carmen had a certain attraction
for Margaret. The New Englander, whose climate is at once his enemy and his tonic, always longs
for the tropics, which to him are a region of romance, as Italy is to the German. In his nature,
also, there is something easily awakened to the allurements of a sensuous existence, and to
a desire for a freer experience of life than custom has allowed him. Carmen, who showed to
Margaret only her best side--she would have been wise to exhibit no other to Henderson, but
women of her nature are apt to cheapen themselves with men--seemed an embodiment of that graceful
gayety and fascinating worldliness which make the world agreeable.

One morning, a few days after the Indian function, Margaret was alone in her own cozy sitting-room.
Nothing was wanting that luxury could suggest to make it in harmony with a beautiful woman,
nothing that did not flatter and please, or nurse, perhaps, a personal sense of beauty, and
impart that glow of satisfaction which comes when the senses are adroitly ministered to. Margaret
had been in a mood that morning to pay extreme attention to her toilet. The result was the
perfection of simplicity, of freshness, of maiden purity, enhanced by the touch of art. As
she surveyed herself in the pier-glass, and noted the refined lines of the morning-gown which
draped but did not conceal the more exquisite lines of her figure, and adjusted a rose in her
bosom, she did not feel like a Puritan, and, although she may not have noted the fact, she
did not look like one. It was not a look of vanity that she threw into the mirror, or of special
self-consciousness; in her toilet she had obeyed only her instinct (that infallible guide in
a woman of refinement), and if she was conscious of any emotion, it was of the stirring within
her of the deepest womanly nature.

In fact, she was restless. She flung herself into an easy-chair before the fire, and took up
a novel. It was a novel with a religious problem. In vain she tried to be interested in it.
At home she would have absorbed it eagerly; they would have discussed it; the doubts and suggestions
in it would have assumed the deepest personal importance. It might have made an era in her
thoughtful country life. Here it did not so appeal to her; it seemed unreal and shadowy in
a life that had so much more of action than of reflection in it. It was a life fascinating
and exciting, and profoundly unsatisfactory. Yet, after all, it was more really life than that
placid vegetation in the country. She felt that in the whirl of only a few days of it--operas,
receptions, teas, readings, dances, dinners, where everybody sparkled with a bewildering brilliancy,
and yet from which one brought away nothing but a sense of strain; such gallantry, such compliments,
such an easy tossing about of every topic under heaven; such an air of knowing everything,
and not caring about anything very much; so much mutual admiration and personal satisfaction!
She liked it, and perhaps was restless because she liked it. To be admired, to be deferred
to--was there any harm in that? Only, if one suffers admiration today, it becomes a necessity
tomorrow. She began to feel the influence of that life which will not let one stand still for
a moment. If it is not the opera, it is a charity; if it is not a lover, it is some endowed
cot in a hospital. There must be something going on every day, every hour.

Yes, she was restless, and could not read. She thought of Mr. Henderson. He had called formally.
She had seen him, here and there, again and again. He had sought her out in all companies;
his face had broken into a smile when he met her; he had talked with her lightly, gayly; she
remembered the sound of his voice; she had learned to know his figure in a room among a hundred;
and she blushed as she remembered that she had once or twice followed him with her eyes in
a throng. He was, to be sure, nothing to her; but he was friendly; he was certainly entertaining;
he was a part, somehow, of this easy-flowing life.

Miss Eschelle was announced. Margaret begged that she would come upstairs without ceremony.
The mutual taking-in of the pretty street costume and the pretty morning toilet was the work
of a moment--the photographer has invented no machine that equals a woman's eyes for such a
purpose.

"How delightful it is! how altogether charming!" and Margaret felt that she was included with
the room in this admiration. "I told mamma that I was coming to see you this morning, even
if I missed the Nestors' luncheon. I like to please myself sometimes. Mamma says I'm frivolous,
but do you know"--the girls were comfortably seated by the fire, and Carmen turned her sweet
face and candid eyes to her companion--"I get dreadfully tired of all this going round and
round. No, I don't even go to the Indigent Mothers' Home; it's part of the same thing, but
I haven't any gift that way. Ah, you were reading--that novel."

"Yes; I was trying to read it; I intend to read it."

"Oh, we have had it! It's a little past now, but it has been all the rage. Everybody has read
it; that is, I don't know that anybody has read it, but everybody has been talking about it.
Of course somebody must have read it, to set the thing agoing. And it has been discussed to
death. I sometimes feel as if I had changed my religion half a dozen times in a fortnight.
But I haven't heard anything about it for a week. We have taken up the Hindoo widows now, you
know." And the girl laughed, as if she knew she were talking nonsense.

"And you do not read much in the city?" Margaret asked, with an answering smile.

"Yes; in the summer. That is, some do. There is a reading set. I don't know that they read
much, but there is a reading set. You know, Miss Debree, that when a book is published--really
published, as Mr. Henderson says--you don't need to read it. Somehow it gets into the air and
becomes common property. Everybody hears the whole thing. You can talk about it from a notice.
Of course there are some novels that one must read in order to understand human nature. Do
you read French?"

"Yes; but not many French novels; I cannot."

"Nor can I," said Carmen, with a sincere face. "They are too realistic for me." She was at
the moment running over in her mind a "situation" in a paper-covered novel turned down on her
nightstand. "Mr. Henderson says that everybody condemns the French novels, and that people
praise the novels they don't read."

"You know Mr. Henderson very well?"

"Yes; we've known him a long time. He is the only man I'm afraid of."

"Afraid of?"

"Well, you know he is a sort of Club man; that style of man provokes your curiosity, for you
never can tell how much such men know. It makes you a little uneasy."

Carmen was looking into the fire, as if abstractedly reflecting upon the nature of men in general,
but she did not fail to notice a slight expression of pain on Margaret's face.

"But there is your Mr. Lyon--"

Margaret laughed. "You do me too much honor. I think you discovered him first."

"Well, our Mr. Lyon." Carmen was still looking into the fire. "He is such a good young man!"

Margaret did not exactly fancy this sort of commendation, and she replied, with somewhat the
tone of defending him, "We all have the highest regard for Mr. Lyon."

"Yes, and he is quite gone on Brandon, I assure you. He intends to do a great deal of good
in the world. I think he spends half his time in New York studying, he calls it, our charitable
institutions. Mamma reproaches me that I don't take more interest in philanthropy. That is
her worldly side. Everybody has a worldly side. I'm as worldly as I can be"--this with a look
of innocence that denied the self-accusation--"but I haven't any call to marry into Exeter
Hall and that sort of thing. That is what she means--dear mamma. Are you High-Church or evangelical?"
she asked, after a moment, turning to Margaret?

Margaret explained that she was neither.

"Well, I am High-Church, and Mr. Lyon is evangelical-Church evangelical. There couldn't be
any happiness, you know, without harmony in religious belief."

"I should think not," said Margaret, now quite recovering herself. "It must be a matter of
great anxiety to you here."

Carmen was quick to note the change of tone, and her face beamed with merriment as she rose.

"What nonsense I've been talking! I did not intend to go into such deep things. You must not
mind what I said about Mr.--(a little pause to read Margaret's face)--Mr. Lyon. We esteem him
as much as you do. How charming you are looking this morning! I wish I had your secret of not
letting this life tell on one." And she was gone in a shower of compliments and smiles and
caressing ways. She had found out what she came to find out. Mr. Henderson needs watching,
she said to herself.

The interview, as Margaret thought it over, was amusing, but it did not raise her spirits.
Was everybody worldly and shallow? Was this the sort of woman whom Mr. Henderson fancied? Was
Mr. Henderson the sort of man to whom such a woman would be attracted?

IX

It was a dinner party in one of the up-town houses--palaces--that begin to repeat in size,
spaciousness of apartments, and decoration the splendor of the Medicean merchant princes. It
is the penalty that we pay for the freedom of republican opportunity that some must be very
rich. This is the logical outcome of the open chance for everybody to be rich--and it is the
surest way to distinction. In a free country the course must be run, and it is by the accumulation
of great wealth that one can get beyond anxiety, and be at liberty to indulge in republican
simplicity.

Margaret and Miss Arbuser were ushered in through a double row of servants in livery--shortclothes
and stockings--in decorous vacuity--an array necessary to bring into relief the naturalness
and simplicity of the entertainers. Vulgarity, one can see, consists in making one's self a
part of the display of wealth: the thing to be attained is personal simplicity on a background
of the richest ostentation. It is difficult to attain this, and theory says that it takes three
generations for a man to separate himself thus from his display. It was the tattle of the town
that the first owner of the pictures in the gallery of the Stott mansion used to tell the prices
to his visitors; the third owner is quite beyond remembering them. He might mention, laughingly,
that the ornamented shovel in the great fireplace in the library was decorated by Vavani--it
was his wife's fancy. But he did not say that the ceiling in the music-room was painted by
Pontifex Lodge, or that six Italian artists had worked four years making the Corean room, every
inch of it exquisite as an intaglio--indeed, the reporters had made the town familiar with
the costly facts.

The present occupants understood quite well the value of a background: the house swarmed with
servants--retainers, one might say. Margaret, who was fresh from her history class, recalled
the days of Elizabeth, when a man's importance was gauged by the retinue of servitors and men
and women in waiting. And this is, after all, a better test of wealth than a mere accumulation
of things and cost of decoration; for though men and women do not cost so much originally as
good pictures--that is, good men and women--everybody knows that it needs more revenue to maintain
them. Though the dinner party was not large, there was to be a dance afterwards, and for every
guest was provided a special attendant.

The dinner was served in the state dining-room, to which Mr. Henderson had the honor of conducting
Margaret. Here prevailed also the same studied simplicity. The seats were for sixteen. The
table went to the extremity of elegant plainness, no crowding, no confusion of colors under
the soft lights; if there was ostentation anywhere, it was in the dazzling fineness of the
expanse of table-linen, not in the few rare flowers, or the crystal, or the plate, which was
of solid gold, simply modest. The eye is pleased by this chastity--pure whiteness, the glow
of yellow, the slight touch of sensuous warmth in the rose. The dinner was in keeping, short,
noiselessly served under the eye of the maitre d'hotel, few courses, few wines; no anxiety
on the part of the host and hostess--perhaps just a little consciousness that everything was
simple and elegant, a little consciousness of the background; but another generation will remove
that.

If to Margaret's country apprehension the conversation was not quite up to the level of the
dinner and the house--what except that of a circle of wits, who would be out of place there,
could be?--the presence of Mr. Henderson, who devoted himself to her, made the lack unnoticed.
The talk ran, as usual, on the opera, Wagner, a Christmas party at Lenox, at Tuxedo, somebody's
engagement, some lucky hit in the Exchange, the irritating personalities of the newspapers,
the last English season, the marriage of the Duchess of Bolinbroke, a confidential disclosure
of who would be in the Cabinet and who would have missions, a jocular remark across the table
about a "corner" (it is impossible absolutely here, as well as at a literary dinner, to sink
the shop), the Sunday opening of galleries--anything to pass the hour, the ladies contributing
most of the vivacity and persiflage.

"I saw you, Mr. Henderson"--it was Mrs. Laflamme raising her voice--"the other night in a box
with a very pretty woman."

"Yes--Miss Eschelle."

"I don't know them. We used to hear of them in Naples, Venice, various places; they were in
Europe some time; I believe. She was said to be very entertaining--and enterprising."

"Well, I suppose they have seen something of the world. The other lady was her mother. And
the man with us--that might interest you more, Mrs. Laflamme, was Mr. Lyon, who will be the
Earl of Chisholm."

"Ah! Then I suppose she has money?"

"I never saw any painful evidence of poverty. But I don't think Mr. Lyon is fortune-hunting.
He seems to be after information and--goodness."

Margaret flushed a little, but apparently Henderson did not notice it. Then she said (after
Mrs. Laflamme had dropped the subject with the remark that he had come to the right place),
"Miss Eschelle called on me yesterday."

"And was, no doubt, agreeable."

"She was, as Mrs. Laflamme says, entertaining. She quoted you a good deal."

"Quoted me? For what?"

"As one would a book, as a familiar authority."

"I suppose I ought to be flattered, if you will excuse the street expression, to have my stock
quotable. Perhaps you couldn't tell whether Miss Eschelle was a bull or a bear in this case?"

"I don't clearly know what that is. She didn't offer me any," said Margaret, in a tone of carrying
on the figure without any personal meaning.

"Well, she is a bit of an operator. A good many women here amuse themselves a little in stocks."

"It doesn't seem to me very feminine."

"No? But women generally like to' take risks and chances. In countries where lotteries are
established they always buy tickets."

"Ah! then they only risk what they have. I think women are more prudent and conservative than men."

"No doubt. They are conservatives usually. But when they do go in for radical measures and
risks, they leave us quite behind." Mr. Henderson did not care to extend the conversation in
this direction, and he asked, abruptly, "Are you finding New York agreeable, Miss Debree?"

"Yes. Yes and no. One has no time to one's self. Do you understand why it is, Mr. Henderson,
that one can enjoy the whole day and then be thoroughly dissatisfied with it?"

"Perfectly; when the excitement is over."

"And then I don't seem to be myself here. I have a feeling of having lost myself."

"Because the world is so big?"

"Not that. Do you know, the world seems much smaller here than at home."

"And the city appears narrow and provincial?"

"I cannot quite explain it. The interests of life don't seem so large--the questions, I mean,
what is going on in Europe, the literature, the reforms, the politics. I get a wider view when
I stand off--at home. I suppose it is more concentrated here. And, oh dear, I'm so stupid!
Everybody is so alert in little things, so quick to turn a compliment, and say a bright thing.
While I am getting ready to say what I really think about Browning, for instance, he is disposed
of in a sentence."

"That is because you try to say what you really think."

"If one don't, what's the use of talk?"

"Oh, to pass the time."

Margaret looked up to see if Henderson was serious. There was a smile of amusement on his face,
but not at all offensive, because the woman saw that it was a look of interest also.

"Then I sha'n't be serious any more," she said, as there was a movement to quit the table.

"That lays the responsibility on me of being serious," he replied, in the same light tone.

Later they were wandering through the picture-gallery together. A gallery of modern pictures
appeals for the most part to the senses--represents the pomps, the color, the allurements of
life. It struck Henderson forcibly that this gallery, which he knew well, appeared very different
looking at it with Miss Debree from what it would if he had been looking at it with Miss Eschelle.
There were some pictures that he hurried past, some technical excellences only used for sensuous
effects--that he did not call attention to as he might have done with another. Curiously enough,
he found himself seeking sentiment, purity. If the drawing was bad, Margaret knew it; if a
false note was struck, she saw it. But she was not educated up to a good many of the suggestions
of the gallery. Henderson perceived this, and his manner to her became more deferential and
protective. It was a manner to which every true woman responds, and Margaret was happy, more
herself, and talked with a freedom and gayety, a spice of satire, and a note of reality that
made her every moment more attractive to her companion. In her, animation the charm of her
unworn beauty blazed upon him with a direct personal appeal. He hardly cared to conceal his
frank admiration. She, on her part, was thinking, what could Miss Eschelle mean by saying that
she was afraid of him?

"Does the world seem any larger here, Miss Debree?" he asked, as they had lingeringly made
the circuit of the room and passed out through the tropical conservatory to join the rest of
the company.

"Yes--away from people."

"Then it is not numbers, I am glad to know, that make a world."

She did not reply. But when he encountered her, robed for departure, at the foot of the stairway,
she gave him her hand in good-night, and their eyes met for a moment.

I wonder if that was the time? Probably not. I fancy that when the right day came she confessed
that the moment was when she first saw him enter their box at the opera.

Henderson walked down the avenue slowly, hearing the echo of his own steps in the deserted
street. He was in no haste to reach home. It was such a delightful evening-snowing a little,
and cold, but so exhilarating. He remembered just how she turned her head as she got into the
carriage. She had touched his arm lightly once in the gallery to call his attention to a picture.
Yes, the world was larger, larger, by one, and it would seem large--her image came to him distinctly--if
she were the only one.

Henderson was under the spell of this evening when the next, in response to a note asking him
to call for a moment on business, he was shown into the Eschelle drawing-room. It was dimly
lighted, but familiarity with the place enabled him without difficulty to find his way down
the long suite, rather overcrowded with luxurious furniture, statuary, and pictures on easels,
to the little library at the far end glowing in a rosy light.

There, ensconced in a big chair, a book in her hand, one pretty foot on the fender, sat Carmen,
in a grayish, vaporous toilet, which took a warm hue from the color of the spreading lamp-shades.
On the carved table near was a litter of books and of nameless little articles, costly and
coquettish, which assert femininity, even in a literary atmosphere. Over the fireplace hung
a picture of spring--a budding girl, smiling and winning, in a semi-transparent raiment, advancing
with swift steps to bring in the season of flowers and of love. The hand that held the book
rested upon the arm of the chair, a finger inserted in the place where she had been reading,
her rounded white arm visible to the elbow, and Carmen was looking into the fire in the attitude
of reflection upon a suggestive passage.

Women have so many forms of attraction, different women are attractive in so many different
ways, moods are so changing, beauty is so undefinable, and has so many weapons. And yet men
are called inconstant!

It was not until Henderson had time to take in the warmth of this domestic picture that Carmen
rose.

"It is so good of you to come, with all your engagements. Mamma is excused with a headache,
but she has left me power of attorney to ask questions about our little venture."

"I hope the attorney will not put me through a cross-examination."

"That depends upon how you have been behaving, Mr. Henderson. I'm not very cross yet. Now,
sit there so that I can look at you and see how honest you are."

"Do you want me to put on my business or my evening expression?"

"Oh, the first, if you mean business."

"Well, your stocks are going up."

"That's nice. You are so lucky! Everything goes up with you. Do you know what they say of you.

"Nothing bad, I hope."

"That everything you touch turns to gold. That you will be one of the nabobs of New York in
ten years."

"That's a startling destiny."

"Isn't it? I don't like it." The girl seemed very serious. "I'd like you to be distinguished.
To be in the Cabinet. To be minister--go to England. But one needs a great deal of money for
that, to go as one ought to go. What a career is open to a man in this country if he has money!"

"But I don't care for politics."

"Who does? But position. You can afford that if you have money enough. Do you know, Mr. Henderson,
I think you are dull."

"Thank you. I reckoned you'd find it out."

"The other night at the Nestor ball a lady--no, I won't tell you who she is--asked me if I
knew who that man was across the room; such an air of distinction; might be the new British
Minister. You know, I almost blushed when I said I did know him."

"Well?"

"You see what people expect of you. When a man looks distinguished and is clever, and knows
how to please if he likes, he cannot help having a career, unless he is afraid to take the
chances."

Henderson was not conscious of ever being wanting in this direction. The picture conjured up
by the ingenious girl was not unfamiliar to his mind, and he understood quite well the relation
to it that Carmen had in her mind; but he did not take the lead offered. Instead, he took refuge
in the usual commonplace, and asked, "Wouldn't you like to have been a man?"

"Heaven forbid! I should be too wicked. It is responsibility enough to be a woman. I did not
expect such a banality from you. Do you think, Mr. Henderson, we had better sell?"

"Sell what?"

"Our stocks. You are so occupied that I thought they might fall when you are up in the clouds
somewhere."

"No, I shall not forget."

"Well, such things happen. I might forget you if it were not for the stocks."

"Then I shall keep the stocks, even if they fall."

"And we should both fall together. That would be some compensation. Not much. Going to smash
with you would be something like going to church with Mr. Lyon. It might have a steadying effect."

"What has come over you tonight, Carmen?" Henderson asked, leaning forward with an expression
of half amusement, half curiosity.

"I've been thinking--doesn't that astonish you?--about life. It is very serious. I got some
new views talking with that Miss Debree from Brandon. Chiefly from what she didn't say. She
is such a lovely girl, and just as unsophisticated--well, as we are. I fear I shocked her by
telling her your opinion of French novels."

"You didn't tell her that I approved of all the French novels you read?"

"Oh no! I didn't say you approved of any. It sort of came out that you knew about them. She
is so downright and conscientious. I declare I felt virtuous shivers running all over me all
the time I was with her. I'm conscientious myself. I want everybody to know the worst of me.
I wish I could practice some concealment. But she rather discourages me. She would take the
color out of a career. She somehow doesn't allow for color, I could see. Duty, duty--that is
the way she looks at life. She'd try to keep me up to it; no playing by the way. I liked her
very much. I like people not to have too much toleration. She would be just the wife for some
nice country rector."

"Perhaps I ought to tell her your plan for her? I dined with her last night at the Stotts'."

"Yes?" Carmen had been wondering if he would tell her of that. "Was it very dull?"

"Not very. There was music, distant enough not to interfere with conversation, and the gallery
afterwards."

"It must have been very exhilarating. You talked about the Duchess of Bolinbroke, and the opera,
and Prince Talleyrand, and the corner in wheat--dear me, I know, so decorous! And you said
Miss Debree was there?"

"I had the honor of taking her out."

"Mr. Henderson"--the girl had risen to adjust the lamp-shade, and now stood behind his chair
with her arm resting on it, so that he was obliged to turn his head backward to see her--"Mr.
Henderson, do you know you are getting to be a desperate flirt?" The laughing eyes looking
into his said that was not such a desperate thing to do if he chose the right object.

"Who taught me?" He raised his left hand. She did not respond to the overture, except to snap
the hand with her index-finger, and was back in her chair again, regarding him demurely.

"I think we shall go abroad soon." The little foot was on the fender again, and the face had
the look of melancholy resolution.

"And leave Mr. Lyon without any protection here?" The remark was made in a tone of good-humored
raillery, but for some reason it seemed to sting the girl.

"Pshaw!" she said. "How can you talk such nonsense? You," and she rose to her feet in indignation--"you
to advise an American girl to sell herself for a title--the chance of a title. I'm ashamed of you!"

"Why, Carmen," he replied, flushing, "I advised nothing of the sort. I hadn't the least idea.
I don't care a straw for Mr. Lyon."

"That's just it; you don't care," sinking into her seat, still unappeased. "I think I'll tell
Mr. Lyon that he will have occupation enough to keep him in this country if he puts his money
into that scheme you were talking over the other night."

Henderson was in turn annoyed. "You can tell him anything you like. I'm no more responsible
for his speculations than for his domestic concerns."

"Now you are offended. It's not nice of you to put me in the wrong when you know how impulsive
I am. I wish I didn't let my feelings run away with me." This said reflectively, and looking
away from him. And then, turning towards him with wistful, pleading eyes: "Do you know, I sometimes
wish I had never seen you. You have so much power to make a person very bad or very good."

"Come, come," said Henderson, rising, "we mustn't quarrel about an Englishman--such old friends."

"Yes, we are very old friends." The girl rose also, and gave him her hand. "Perhaps that's
the worst of it. If I should lose your esteem I should go into a convent." She dropped his
hand, and snatching a bunch of violets from the table, fixed them in his button-hole, looking
up in his face with vestal sweetness. "You are not offended?"

"Not a bit; not the least in the world," said Henderson, heartily, patting the hand that still
lingered upon his lapel.

When he had gone, Carmen sank into her chair with a gesture of vexation, and there were hard
lines in her sweet face. "What an insensible stick!" Then she ran up-stairs to her mother,
who sat in her room reading one of the town-weeklies, into which some elderly ladies look for
something to condemn.

"Well?"

"Such a stupid evening! He is just absorbed in that girl from Brandon. I told him we were going
abroad."

"Going abroad! You are crazy, child. New York is forty times as amusing."

"And forty times as tiresome. I'm sick of it. Mamma, don't you think it would be only civil
to ask Mr. Lyon to a quiet dinner before he goes?"

"Certainly. That is what I said the other day. I thought you--"

"Yes, I was ill-natured then. But I want to please you. And we really ought to be civil."

One day is so like another in the city. Every day something new, and, the new the same thing
over again. And always the expectation that it will be different tomorrow. Nothing is so tiresome
as a kaleidoscope, though it never repeats itself.

Fortunately there are two pursuits that never pall--making money and making love.

Henderson had a new object in life, though the new one did not sensibly divert him from the
old; it rather threw a charming light over it, and made the possibilities of it more attractive.
In all his schemes he found the thought of Margaret entering. Why should it not have been Carmen?
he sometimes thought. She thoroughly understood him. She would never stand in the way of his
most daring ambitions with any scruples. Her conscience would never nag his. She would be ambitious
for a career for him. Would she care for him or the career? How clever she was! And affectionate?
She would be if she had a heart.

He was not balancing the two. What man ever does, in fact? It was simply because Margaret had
a heart that he loved her, that she seemed necessary to him. He was quite capable of making
a match for his advancement, but he felt strong enough to make one for his own pleasure. And
if there are men so worldly as not to be attracted to unworldliness in a woman, Henderson was
not one of them. If his heart had not dictated, his brain would have told him the value of
the sympathy of a good woman.

He was a very busy man, in the thick of the struggle for a great fortune. It did not occur
to him to reflect whether she would approve all the methods he resorted to, but all the women
he knew liked success, and the thought of her invigorated him. If she once loved him, she would
approve what he did.

He saw much of her in those passing days--days that went like a dream to one of them at least.
He was a welcome guest at the Arbusers', but he saw little of Margaret alone. It did not matter.
A chance look is a volume; a word is a library. They saw each other; they heard each other.
And then passion grows almost as well in the absence as in the presence of the object. Imagination
then has free play. A little separation sometimes will fan it into a flame.

The days went by, and Margaret's visit was over. I am obliged to say that the leave-taking
was a gay one, as full of laughter as it was of hope. Brandon was such a little way off. Henderson
often had business there. The Misses Arbuser said, "Of course." And Margaret said he must not
forget that she lived there. Even when she bade her entertainers an affectionate good-by, she
could not look very unhappy.

Spring was coming. That day in the cars there were few signs of it on the roadside to be seen,
but the buds were swelling. And Margaret, neglecting the book which lay on her lap, and looking
out the window, felt it in all her veins.

X

It is said that the world is created anew for every person who is in love. There is therefore
this constant miracle of a new heavens and a new earth. It does not depend upon the seasons.
The subtle force which is in every human being, more or less active, has this power, as if
love were somehow a principle pervading nature itself, and capable of transforming it. Is this
a divine gift? Can it be used more than once? Once spent, does the world to each succeeding
experimenter in it become old and stale? We say the world is old. In one sense, the real sense
to every person, it is no older than the lives lived in it at any given time. If it is always
passing away, it is always being renewed. Every time a youth looks love in a maiden's eyes,
and sees the timid appealing return of the universal passion, the world for those two is just
as certainly created as it was on the first morning, in all its color, odor, song, freshness,
promise. This is the central mystery of life.

Unconsciously to herself, Margaret had worked this miracle. Never before did the little town
look so bright; never before was there exactly such a color on the hills-sentiment is so pale
compared with love; never before did her home appear so sweet; never before was there such
a fine ecstasy in the coming of spring.

For all this, home-coming, after the first excitement of arrival is over, is apt to be dull.
The mind is so occupied with other emotions that the friends even seem a little commonplace
and unresponsive, and the routine is tame. Out of such a whirl of new experiences to return
and find that nothing has happened; that the old duties and responsibilities are waiting! Margaret
had eagerly leaped from the carriage to throw herself into her aunt's arms-what a sweet welcome
it is, that of kin!--and yet almost before the greeting was over she felt alone. There was
that in the affectionate calmness of Miss Forsythe that seemed to chill the glow and fever
of passion in her new world. And she had nothing to tell. Everything had changed, and she must
behave as if nothing had happened. She must take up her old life--the interests of the neighborhood.
Even the little circle of people she loved appeared distant from her at the moment; impossible
it seemed to bring them into the rushing current of her life. Their joy in getting her back
again she could not doubt, nor the personal affection with which she was welcomed. But was
the New England atmosphere a little cold? What was the flavor she missed in it all? The next
day a letter came. The excuse for it was the return of a fan which Mr. Henderson had carried
off in his pocket from the opera. What a wonderful letter it was--his handwriting, the first
note from him! Miss Forsythe saw in it only politeness. For Margaret it outweighed the town
of Brandon. It lay in her lap as she sat at her chamber window looking out over the landscape,
which was beginning to be flushed with a pale green. There was a robin on the lawn, and a blackbird
singing in the pine. "Go not, happy day," she said, with tears in her eyes. She took up the
brief letter and read it again. Was he really hers, "truly"? And she answered the letter, swiftly
and with no hesitation, but with a throbbing heart. It was a civil acknowledgment; that was
all. Henderson might have lead it aloud in the Exchange. But what color, what charming turns
of expression, what of herself, had the girl put into it, that gave him such a thrill of pleasure
when he read it? What secret power has a woman to make a common phrase so glow with her very self?

Here was something in her life that was her own, a secret, a hope, and yet a tremulous anticipation
to be guarded almost from herself. It colored everything; it was always, whatever she was doing
or saying, present, like an air that one unconsciously hums for days after it has caught his
fancy. Blessed be the capacity of being fond and foolish! If that letter was under her pillow
at night, if this new revelation was last in her thought as she fell asleep, if it mingled
with the song of the birds in the spring morning, as some great good pervading the world, is
there anything distinguishing in such an experience that it should be dwelt on? And if there
were questionings and little panics of doubt, did not these moments also reveal Margaret to
herself more certainly than the hours of happy dreaming?

Questionings no doubt there were, and, later, serious questionings; for habit is almost as
strong as love, and the old ways of life and of thought will reassert themselves in a thoughtful
mind, and reason will insist on analyzing passion and even hope.

Gradually the home life and every-day interests began to assume their natural aspect and proportions.
It was so sweet and sane, this home life, interesting and not feverish. There was time for
reading, time for turning over things in the mind, time for those interchanges of feeling and
of ideas, by the fireside; she was not required to be always on dress parade, in mind or person,
always keyed up to make an impression or receive one; how much wider and sounder was Morgan's
view of the world, allowing for his kindly cynicism, than that prevalent in the talk where
she had lately been! How sincere and hearty and free ran the personal currents in this little
neighborhood! In the very fact that the daily love and affection for her and interest in her
were taken for granted she realized the difference between her position here and that among
newer friends who showed more open admiration.

Little by little there was a readjustment. In comparison, the city life, with its intensity
of action and feeling, began to appear distant, not so real, mixed, turbid, even frivolous.
And was Henderson a vanishing part of this pageant? Was his figure less distinct as the days
went by? It could not be affirmed. Love is such a little juggler, and likes, now and again,
to pretend to be so reasonable and judicious. There were no more letters. If there had been
a letter now and then, on any excuse, the nexus would have been more distinct: nothing feeds
the flame exactly like a letter; it has intention, personality, secrecy. And the little excitement
of it grows. Once a week gets to be twice a week, three times, four times, and then daily.
And then a day without a letter is such a blank, and so full of fear! What can have happened?
Is he ill? Has he changed? The opium habit is nothing to the letter habit-between lovers. Not
that Margaret expected a letter. Indeed, reason told her that it had not gone so far as that.
But she should see him. She felt sure of that. And the thought filled all the vacant places
in her imagination of the future.

And yet she thought she was seeing him more clearly than when he was with her. Oh wise young
woman! She fancied she was deliberating, looking at life with great prudence. It must be one's
own fault if one makes a radical mistake in marriage. She was watching the married people about
her with more interest-the Morgans, our own household, Mrs. Fletcher; and besides, her aunt,
whose even and cheerful life lacked this experience. It is so wise to do this, to keep one's
feelings in control, not to be too hasty! Everybody has these intervals of prudence. That is
the reason there are so few mistakes.

I dare say that all these reflections and deliberations in the maidenly mind were almost unconscious
to herself; certainly unacknowledged. It was her imagination that she was following, and scarcely
a distinct reality or intention. She thought of Henderson, and he gave a certain personality,
vivid maybe, to that dream of the future which we all in youth indulge; but she would have
shrunk from owning this even to herself. We deceive ourselves as often as we deceive others.
Margaret would have repudiated with some warmth any intimation that she had lost her heart,
and was really predicting the practical possibilities of that loss, and she would have been
quite honest with herself in thinking that she was still mistress of her own feeling. Later
on she would know, and delight to confess, that her destiny was fixed at a certain hour, at
a certain moment, in New York, for subsequent events would run back to that like links in a
chain. And she would have been right and also wrong in that; for but for those subsequent events
the first impression would have faded, and been taken little account of in her life. I am more
and more convinced that men and women act more upon impulse and less upon deep reflection and
self-examination than the analytic novelists would have us believe, duly weighing motives and
balancing considerations; and that men and women know themselves much less thoroughly than
they suppose they do. There is a great deal of exaggeration, I am convinced, about the inward
struggles and self-conflicts. The reader may know that Margaret was hopelessly in love, because
he knows everything; but that charming girl would have been shocked and wounded to the most
indignant humiliation if she had fancied that her friends thought that. Nay, more, if Henderson
had at this moment made by letter a proposal for her hand, her impulse would have been to repudiate
the offer as unjustified by anything that had taken place, and she would no doubt have obeyed
that impulse.

But something occurred, while she was in this mood, that did not shock her maidenly self-consciousness,
nor throw her into antagonism, but which did bring her face to face with a possible reality.
And this was simply the receipt of a letter from Henderson; not a love-letter--far enough from
that--but one in which there was a certain tone and intention that the most inexperienced would
recognize as possibly serious. Aside from the announcement in the letter, the very fact of
writing it was significant, conveying an intimation that the reader might be interested in
what concerned the writer. The letter was longer than it need have been, for one thing, as
if the pen, once started on its errand, ran on con amore. The writer was coming to Brandon;
business, to be sure, was the excuse; but why should it have been necessary to announce to
her a business visit? There crept into the letter somehow a good deal about his daily life,
linked, to be sure, with mention of places and people in which she had recently an interest.
He had been in Washington, and there were slight sketches of well-known characters in Congress
and in the Government; he had been in Chicago, and even as far as Denver, and there were little
pictures of scenes that might amuse her. There was no special mystery about all this travel
and hurrying from place to place, but it gave Margaret a sense of varied and large occupations
that she did not understand. Through it all there was the personality that had been recently
so much in her thoughts. He was coming. That was a very solid fact that she must meet. And
she did not doubt that he was coming to see her, and soon. That was a definite and very different
idea from the dim belief that he would come some time. He had signed himself hers "faithfully."

It was a letter that could not be answered like the other one; for it raised questions and
prospects, and the thousand doubts that make one hesitate in any definite step; and, besides,
she pleased herself to think that she did not know her own mind. He had not asked if he might
come; he had said he was coming, and really there was no answer to that. Therefore she put
it out of her mind-another curious mental process we have in dealing with a matter that is
all the time the substratum of our existence. And she was actually serious; if she was reflective,
she was conscious of being judicially reflective.

But in this period of calm and reflection it was impossible that a woman of Margaret's habits
and temperament should not attempt to settle in her mind what that life was yonder of which
she had a little taste; what was the career that Henderson had marked out for himself; what
were his principles; what were the methods and reasons of his evident success. Endeavoring
in her clear mind to separate the person, about whose personality she was so fondly foolish,
from his schemes, which she so dimly comprehended, and applying to his somewhat hazy occupations
her simple moral test, were the schemes quite legitimate? Perhaps she did not go so far as
this; but what she read in the newspapers of moneymaking in these days made her secretly uneasy,
and she found herself wishing that he were definitely practicing some profession, or engaged
in some one solid occupation.

In the little parliament at our house, where everything, first and last, was overhauled and
brought to judgment, without, it must be confessed, any visible effect on anything, one evening
a common "incident" of the day started the conversation. It was an admiring account in a newspaper
of a brilliant operation by which three or four men had suddenly become millionaires.

"I don't see," said my wife, "any mention in this account of the thousands who have been reduced
to poverty by this operation."

"No," said Morgan; "that is not interesting."

"But it would be very interesting to me," Mrs. Fletcher remarked. "Is there any protection,
Mr. Morgan, for people who have invested their little property?"

"Yes; the law."

"But suppose your money is all invested, say in a railway, and something goes wrong, where
are you to get the money to pay for the law that will give you restitution? Is there anything
in the State, or public opinion, or anywhere, that will protect your interests against clever
swindling?"

"Not that I know of," Morgan admitted. "You take your chance when you let your money go out
of your stocking. You see there are so many people who want it. You can put it in the ground."

"But if I own the ground I put it in, the voters who have no ground will tax it till there
is nothing left for me."

"That is equality."

"But it isn't equality, for somebody gets very rich in railways or lands, while we lose our
little all. Don't you think there ought to be a public official whose duty it is to enforce
the law gratis which I cannot afford to enforce when I am wronged?"

"The difficulty is to discover whether you are wronged or only unfortunate. It needs a lawyer
to find that out. And very likely if you are wronged, the wrongdoer has so cleverly gone round
the law that it needs legislation to set you straight, and that needs a lobbyist, whom the
lawyer must hire, or he must turn lobbyist himself. Now, a lawyer costs money, and a lobbyist
is one of the most expensive of modern luxuries; but when you have a lawyer and lobbyist in
one, you will find it economical to let him take your claim and all that can be made out of
it, and not bother you any more about it. But there is no doubt about the law, as I said. You
can get just as much law as you can pay for. It is like any other commodity."

"You mean to say," I asked, "that the lawyer takes what the operator leaves?"

"Not exactly. There is a great deal of unreasonable prejudice against lawyers. They must live.
There is no nobler occupation than the application of the principle of justice in human affairs.
The trouble is that public opinion sustains the operator in his smartness, and estimates the
lawyer according to his adroitness. If we only evoked the aid of a lawyer in a just cause,
the lawyers would have less to do.

"Usually and naturally the best talent goes with the biggest fees."

"It seems to me," said my wife, musing along, in her way, on parallel lines, "that there ought
to be a limit to the amount of property one man can get into his absolute possession, to say
nothing of the methods by which he gets it."

"That never yet could be set," Morgan replied. "It is impossible for any number of men to agree
on it. I don't see any line between absolute freedom of acquisition, trusting to circumstances,
misfortune, and death to knock things to pieces, and absolute slavery, which is communism."

"Do you believe, Mr. Morgan, that any vast fortune was ever honestly come by?"

"That is another question. Honesty is such a flexible word. If you mean a process the law cannot
touch, yes. If you mean moral consideration for others, I doubt. But property accumulates by
itself almost. Many a man who has got a start by an operation he would not like to have investigated,
and which he tries to forget, goes on to be very rich, and has a daily feeling of being more
and more honorable and respectable, using only means which all the world calls fair and shrewd."

"Mr. Morgan," suddenly asked Margaret, who had been all the time an uneasy listener to the
turn the talk had taken, "what is railroad wrecking?"

"Oh, it is very simple, at least in some of its forms. The 'wreckers,' as they are called,
fasten upon some railway that is prosperous, pays dividends, pays a liberal interest on its
bonds, and has a surplus. They contrive to buy, no matter of what cost, a controlling interest
in it, either in its stock or its management. Then they absorb its surplus; they let it run
down so that it pays no dividends, and by-and-by cannot even pay its interest; then they squeeze
the bondholders, who may be glad to accept anything that is offered out of the wreck, and perhaps
then they throw the property into the hands of a receiver, or consolidate it with some other
road at a value enormously greater than the cost to them in stealing it. Having in one way
or another sucked it dry, they look round for another road."

"And all the people who first invested lose their money, or the most of it?"

"Naturally, the little fish get swallowed."

"It is infamous," said Margaret--"infamous! And men go to work to do this, to get other people's
property, in cool blood?"

"I don't know how cool, but it is in the way of business."

"What is the difference between that and getting possession of a bank and robbing it?" she
asked, hot with indignation.

"Oh, one is an operation, and the other is embezzlement."

"It is a shame. How can people permit it? Suppose, Mrs. Fletcher, a wrecker should steal your
money that way?"

"I was thinking of that."

I never saw Margaret more disturbed--out of all proportion, I thought, to the cause; for we
had talked a hundred times about such things.

"Do you think all men who are what you call operating around are like that?" she asked.

"Oh, no," I said. "Probably most men who are engaged in what is generally called speculation
are doing what seems to them a perfectly legitimate business. It is a common way of making
a fortune."

"You see, Margaret," Morgan explained, "when people in trade buy anything, they expect to sell
it for more than they gave for it."

"It seems to me," Margaret replied, more calmly, "that a great deal of what you men call business
is just trying to get other people's money, and doesn't help anybody or produce anything."

"Oh, that is keeping up the circulation, preventing stagnation."

"And that is the use of brokers in grain and stocks?"

"Partly. They are commonly the agents that others use to keep themselves from stagnation."

"I cannot see any good in it," Margaret persisted. "No one seems to have the things he buys
or sells. I don't understand it."

"That is because you are a woman, if you will pardon me for saying it. Men don't need to have
things in hand; business is done on faith and credit, and when a transaction is over, they
settle up and pay the difference, without the trouble of transporting things back and forth."

"I know you are chaffing me, Mr. Morgan. But I should call that betting."

"Oh, there is a risk in everything you do. But you see it is really paying for a difference
of knowledge or opinion."

"Would you buy stocks that way?"

"What way?"

"Why, agreeing to pay for your difference of opinion, as you call it, not really having any
stock at all."

"I never did. But I have bought stocks and sold them pretty soon, if I could make anything
by the sale. All merchants act on that principle."

"Well," said Margaret, dimly seeing the sophistry of this, "I don't understand business morality."

"Nobody does, Margaret. Most men go by the law. The Golden Rule seems to be suspended by a
more than two-thirds vote."

It was by such inquiries, leading to many talks of this sort, that Margaret was groping in
her mind for the solution of what might become to her a personal question. Consciously she
did not doubt Henderson's integrity or his honor, but she was perplexed about the world of
which she had recently had a glimpse, and it was impossible to separate him from it. Subjected
to an absolutely new experience, stirred as her heart had never been before by any man--a fact
which at once irritated and pleased her--she was following the law of her own nature, while
she was still her own mistress, to ponder these things and to bring her reason to the guidance
of her feeling. And it is probable that she did not at all know the strength of her feeling,
or have any conception of the real power of love, and how little the head has to do with the
great passion of life, the intensity of which the poets have never in the least exaggerated.
If she thought of Mr. Lyon occasionally, of his white face and pitiful look of suffering that
day, she could not, after all, make it real or permanently serious. Indeed, she was sure that
no emotion could so master her. And yet she looked forward to Henderson's coming with a sort
of nervous apprehension, amounting almost to dread.

XI

It was the susceptible time of the year for plants, for birds, for maids: all innocent natural
impulses respond to the subtle influence of spring. One may well gauge his advance in selfishness,
worldliness, and sin by his loss of this annual susceptibility, by the failure of this sweet
appeal to touch his heart. One must be very far gone if some note of it does not for a moment
bring back the tenderest recollections of the days of joyous innocence.

Even the city, with its mass of stone and brick, rectangles, straight lines, dust, noise, and
fever of activity, is penetrated by this divine suggestion of the renewal of life. You can
scarcely open a window without letting in a breath of it; the south wind, the twitter of a
sparrow, the rustle of leaves in the squares, the smell of the earth and of some struggling
plant in the area, the note of a distant hand-organ softened by distance, are begetting a longing
for youth, for green fields, for love. As Carmen walked down the avenue with Mr. Lyon on a
spring morning she almost made herself believe that an unworldly life with this simple-hearted
gentleman--when he should come into his title and estate--would be more to her liking than
the most brilliant success in place and power with Henderson. Unfortunately the spring influence
also suggested the superior attractiveness of the only man who had ever taken her shallow fancy.
And unfortunately the same note of nature suggested to Mr. Lyon the contrast of this artificial
piece of loveliness with the domestic life of which he dreamed.

As for Margaret, she opened her heart to the spring without reserve. It was May. The soft maples
had a purple tinge, the chestnuts showed color, the apple-trees were in bloom (all the air
was full of their perfume), the blackbirds were chattering in convention in the tall oaks,
the bright leaves and the flowering shrubs were alive with the twittering and singing of darting
birds. The soft, fleecy clouds, hovering as over a world just created, seemed to make near
and participant in the scene the delicate blue of the sky. Margaret--I remember the morning--was
standing on her piazza, as I passed through the neighborhood drive, with a spray of apple-blossoms
in her hand. For the moment she seemed to embody all the maiden purity of the scene, all its
promise. I said, laughing:

"We shall have to have you painted as spring."

"But spring isn't painted at all," she replied, holding up the apple--blossoms, and coming
down the piazza with a dancing step.

"And so it won't last. We want something permanent," I was beginning to say, when a carriage
passed, going to our house. "I think that must be Henderson."

"Ah!" she exclaimed. Her sunny face clouded at once, and she turned to go in as I hurried away.

It was Mr. Henderson, and there was at least pretense enough of business to occupy us, with
Mr. Morgan, the greater part of the day. It was not till late in the afternoon that Henderson
appeared to remember that Margaret was in the neighborhood, and spoke of his intention of calling.
My wife pointed out the way to him across the grounds, and watched him leisurely walking among
the trees till he was out of sight.

"What an agreeable man Mr. Henderson is!" she said, turning to me; "most companionable; and
yet--and yet, my dear, I'm glad he is not my husband. You suit me very well." There was an
air of conviction about this remark, as if it were the result of deep reflection and comparison,
and it was emphasized by the little possessory act of readjusting my necktie--one of the most
subtle of female flatteries.

"But who wanted him to be your husband?" I asked. "Married women have the oddest habit of going
about the world picking out the men they would not like to have married. Do they need continually
to justify themselves?"

"No; they congratulate themselves. You never can understand."

"I confess I cannot. My first thought about an attractive woman whose acquaintance I make is
not that I am glad I did not marry her."

"I dare say not. You are all inconsistent, you men. But you are the least so of any man in
the world, I do believe."

It would be difficult to say whether the spring morning seemed more or less glorious to Margaret
when she went indoors, but its serenity was gone.

It was like the premonition in nature of a change. She put the apple blossoms in water and
placed the jug on the table, turning it about half a dozen times, moving her head from side
to side to get the effect. When it was exactly right, she said to her aunt, who sat sewing
in the bay-window, in a perfectly indifferent tone, "Mr. Fairchild just passed here, and said
that Mr. Henderson had come."

"Ah!" Her aunt did not lift her eyes from her work, or appear to attach the least importance
to this tremendous piece of news. Margaret was annoyed at what seemed to her an assumed indifference.
Her nerves were quivering with the knowledge that he had arrived, that he was in the next house,
that he might be here any moment--the man who had entered into her whole life--and the announcement
was no more to her aunt than if she had said it rained. She was provoked at herself that she
should be so disturbed, yes, annoyed, at his proximity. She wished he had not come--not today,
at any rate. She looked about for something to do, and began to rearrange this and that trifle
in the sitting-room, which she had perfectly arranged once before in the morning, moving about
here and there in a rather purposeless manner, until her aunt looked up and for a moment followed
her movements till Margaret left the room. In her own chamber she sat by the window and tried
to think, but there was no orderly mental process; in vain she tried to run over in her mind
the past month and all her reflections and wise resolves. She heard the call of the birds,
she inhaled the odor of the new year, she was conscious of all that was gracious and inviting
in the fresh scene, but in her sub-consciousness there was only one thought--he was there,
he was coming. She took up her sewing, but the needle paused in the stitch, and she found herself
looking away across the lawn to the hills; she took up a book, but the words had no meaning,
read and reread them as she would. He is there, he is coming. And what of it? Why should she
be so disturbed? She was uncommitted, she was mistress of her own actions. Had she not been
coolly judging his conduct? She despised herself for being so nervous and unsettled. If he
was coming, why did he not come? Why was he waiting so long? She arose impatiently and went
down-stairs. There was a necessity of doing something.

"Is there anything that you want from town, auntie?"

"Nothing that I know of. Are you going in?"

"No, unless you have an errand. It is such a fine day that it seems a pity to stay indoors."

"Well, I would walk if I were you." But she did not go; she went instead to her room. He might
come any moment. She ought not to run away; and yet she wished she were away. He said he was
coming on business. Was it not, then, a pretense? She felt humiliated in the idea of waiting
for him if the business were not a pretense.

How insensible men are! What a mere subordinate thing to them in life is the love of a woman!
Yes, evidently business was more important to him than anything else. He must know that she
was waiting; and she blushed to herself at the very possibility that he should think such a
thing. She was not waiting. It was lunch-time. She excused herself. In the next moment she
was angry that she had not gone down as usual. It was time for him to come. He would certainly
come immediately after lunch. She would not see him. She hoped never to see him. She rose in
haste, put on her hat, put it on carefully, turning and returning before the glass, selected
fresh gloves, and ran down-stairs.

"I'm going, auntie, for a walk to town."

The walk was a long one. She came back tired. It was late in the afternoon. Her aunt was quietly
reading. She needed to ask her nothing: Mr. Henderson had not been there. Why had he written
to her?

"Oh, the Fairchilds want us to come over to dinner," said Miss Forsythe, without looking up.

"I hope you will go, auntie. I sha'n't mind being alone."

"Why? It's perfectly informal. Mr. Henderson happens to be there."

"I'm too stupid. But you must go. Mr. Henderson, in New York, expressed the greatest desire
to make your acquaintance."

Miss Forsythe smiled. "I suppose he has come up on purpose. But, dear, you must go to chaperon
me. It would hardly be civil not to go, when you knew Mr. Henderson in New York, and the Fairchilds
want to make it agreeable for him."

"Why, auntie, it is just a business visit. I'm too tired to make the effort. It must be this
spring weather."

Perhaps it was. It is so unfortunate that the spring, which begets so many desires, brings
the languor that defeats their execution. But there is a limit to the responsibility even of
spring for a woman's moods. Just as Margaret spoke she saw, through the open window, Henderson
coming across the lawn, walking briskly, but evidently not inattentive to the charm of the
landscape. It was his springy step, his athletic figure, and, as he came nearer, the joyous
anticipation in his face. And it was so sudden, so unexpected--the vision so long looked for!
There was no time for flight, had she wanted to avoid him; he was on the piazza; he was at
the open door. Her hand went quickly to her heart to still the rapid flutter, which might be
from pain and might be from joy--she could not tell. She had imagined their possible meeting
so many times, and it was not at all like this. She ought to receive him coldly, she ought
to receive him kindly, she ought to receive him indifferently. But how real he was, how handsome
he was! If she could have obeyed the impulse of the moment I am not sure but she would have
fled, and cast herself face downward somewhere, and cried a little and thanked God for him.
He was in the room. In his manner there was no hesitation, in his expression no uncertainty.
His face beamed with pleasure, and there was so much open admiration in his eyes that Margaret,
conscious of it to her heart's core, feared that her aunt would notice it. And she met him
calmly enough, frankly enough. The quickness with which a woman can pull herself together under
such circumstances is testimony to her superior fibre.

"I've been looking across here ever since morning," he said, as soon as the hand-shaking and
introduction were over, "and I've only this minute been released." There was no air of apology
in this, but a delicate intimation of impatience at the delay. And still, what an unconscious
brute a man is!

"I thought perhaps you had returned," said Margaret, "until my aunt was just telling me we
were asked to dine with you."

Henderson gave her a quick glance. Was it possible she thought he could go away without seeing her?

"Yes, and I was commissioned to bring you over when you are ready." "I will not keep you waiting
long, Mr. Henderson," interposed Miss Forsythe, out of the goodness of her heart. "My niece
has been taking a long walk, and this debilitating spring weather--"

"Oh, since the sun has gone away, I think I'm quite up to the exertion, since you wish it,
auntie," a speech that made Henderson stare again, wholly unable to comprehend the reason of
an indirection which he could feel--he who had been all day impatient for this moment. There
was a little talk about the country and the city at this season, mainly sustained by Miss Forsythe
and Henderson, and then he was left alone. "Of course you should go, Margaret," said her aunt,
as they went upstairs; "it would not be at all the thing for me to leave you here. And what
a fine, manly, engaging fellow Mr. Henderson is!"

"Yes, he acts very much like a man;" and Margaret was gone into her room.

Go? There was not force enough in the commonwealth, without calling out the militia, to keep
Margaret from going to the dinner. She stopped a moment in the middle of her chamber to think.
She had almost forgotten how he looked--his eyes, his smile. Dear me! how the birds were singing
outside, and how fresh the world was! And she would not hurry. He could wait. No doubt he would
wait now any length of time for her. He was in the house, in the room below, perhaps looking
out of the window, perhaps reading, perhaps spying about at her knick-knacks--she would like
to look in at the door a moment to see what he was doing. Of course he was here to see her,
and all the business was a pretext. As she sat a moment upon the edge of her bed reflecting
what to put on, she had a little pang that she had been doing him injustice in her thought.
But it was only for an instant. He was here. She was not in the least flurried. Indeed, her
mental processes were never clearer than when she settled upon her simple toilet, made as it
was in every detail with the sure instinct of a woman who dresses for her lover. Heavens! what
a miserable day it had been, what a rebellious day! He ought to be punished for it somehow.
Perhaps the rose she put in her hair was part of the punishment. But he should not see how
happy she was; she would be civil, and just a little reserved; it was so like a man to make
a woman wait all day and then think he could smooth it all over simply by appearing.

But somehow in Henderson's presence these little theories of conduct did not apply. He was
too natural, direct, unaffected, his pleasure in being with her was so evident! He seemed to
brush aside the little defenses and subterfuges. There was this about him that appeared to
her admirable, and in contrast with her own hesitating indirection, that whatever he wanted--money,
or position, or the love of woman--he went straight to his object with unconsciousness that
failure was possible. Even in walking across the grounds in the soft sunset light, and chatting
easily, their relations seemed established on a most natural basis, and Margaret found herself
giving way to the simple enjoyment of the hour. She was not only happy, but her spirits rose
to inexpressible gayety, which ran into the humor of badinage and a sort of spiritual elation,
in which all things seemed possible. Perhaps she recognized in herself, what Henderson saw
in her. And with it all there was an access of tenderness for her aunt, the dear thing whose
gentle life appeared so colorless.

I had never seen Margaret so radiant as at the dinner; her high spirits infected the table,
and the listening and the talking were of the best that the company could give. I remembered
it afterwards, not from anything special that was said, but from its flow of high animal spirits,
and the electric responsive mood everyone was in; no topic carried too far, and the chance
seriousness setting off the sparkling comments on affairs. Henderson's talk had the notable
flavor of direct contact with life, and very little of the speculative and reflective tone
of Morgan's, who was always generalizing and theorizing about it. He had just come from the
West, and his off-hand sketches of men had a special cynicism, not in the least condemnatory,
mere good-natured acceptance, and in contrast to Morgan's moralizing and rather pitying cynicism.
It struck me that he did not believe in his fellows as much as Morgan did; but I fancied that
Margaret only saw in his attitude a tolerant knowledge of the world.

"Are the people on the border as bad as they are represented?" she asked.

"Certainly not much worse than they represent themselves," he replied; "I suppose the difference
is that men feel less restraint there."

"It is something more than that," added Morgan. "There is a sort of drift-wood of adventure
and devil-may-care-ism that civilization throws in advance of itself; but that isn't so bad
as the slag it manufactures in the cities."

"I remember you said, Mr. Morgan, that men go West to get rid of their past," said Margaret.

"As New Yorkers go to Europe to get rid of their future?" Henderson inquired, catching the phrase.

"Yes"--Morgan turned to Margaret--"doubtless there is a satisfaction sometimes in placing the
width of a continent between a man and what he has done. I've thought that one of the most
popular verses in the Psalter, on the border, must be the one that says--you will know if I
quote it right 'Look how wide also the East is from the West; so far hath He set our sins from
us.'"

"That is dreadful," exclaimed Margaret. "To think of you spending your time in the service
picking out passages to fit other people!"

"It sounds as if you had manufactured it," was Henderson's comment.

"No; that quiet Mr. Lyon pointed it out to me when we were talking about Montana. He had been
there."

"By-the-way, Mr. Henderson," my wife asked, "do you know what has become of Mr. Lyon?"

"I believe he is about to go home."

"I fancied Miss Eschelle might have something to say about that," Morgan remarked.

"Perhaps, if she were asked. But Mr. Lyon appeared rather indifferent to American attractions."

Margaret looked quickly at Henderson as he said this, and then ventured, a little slyly, "She
seemed to appreciate his goodness."

"Yes; Miss Eschelle has an eye for goodness."

This was said without change of countenance, but it convinced the listener that Carmen was
understood.

"And yet," said Margaret, with a little air of temerity, "you seem to be very good friends."

"Oh, she is very charitable; she sees, I suppose, what is good in me; and I'll spare you the
trouble of remarking that she must necessarily be very sharp-sighted."

"And I'm not going to destroy your illusion by telling you her real opinion of you," Margaret
retorted.

Henderson begged to know what it was, but Margaret evaded the question by new raillery. What
did she care at the moment what Carmen thought of Henderson? What--did either of them care
what they were saying, so long as there was some personal flavor in the talk! Was it not enough
to talk to each other, to see each other?

As we sat afterwards upon the piazza with our cigars, inhaling the odor of the apple blossoms,
and yielding ourselves, according to our age, to the influence of the mild night, Margaret
was in the high spirits which accompany the expectation of bliss, without the sobering effect
of its responsibility. Love itself is very serious, but the overture is full of freakish gayety.
And it was all gayety that night. We all constituted ourselves a guard of honor to Miss Forsythe
and Margaret when they went to their cottage, and there was a merry leave-taking in the moonlight.
To be sure, Margaret walked with Henderson, and they lagged a little behind, but I had no reason
to suppose that they were speaking of the stars, or that they raised the ordinary question
of their being inhabited. I doubt if they saw the stars at all. How one remembers little trifles,
that recur like the gay bird notes of the opening scenes that are repeated in the tragedy of
the opera! I can see Margaret now, on some bantering pretext, running back, after we had said
good-night, to give Henderson the blush-rose she had worn in her hair. How charming the girl
was in this freakish action!

"Do you think he is good enough for her?" asked my wife, when we were alone.

"Who is good enough for whom?" I said, a yawn revealing my want of sentiment.

"Don't be stupid. You are not so blind as you pretend."

"Well, if I am not so blind as I pretend, though I did not pretend to be blind, I suppose that
is mainly her concern."

"But I wish she had cared for Lyon."

"Perhaps Lyon did not care for her," I suggested.

"You never see anything. Lyon was a noble fellow."

"I didn't deny that. But how was I to know about Lyon, my dear? I never heard you say that
you were glad he wasn't your husband."

"Don't be silly. I think Henderson has very serious intentions."

"I hope he isn't frivolous," I said.

"Well, you are. It isn't a joking matter--and you pretend to be so fond of Margaret!"

"So that is another thing I pretend? What do you want me to do? Which one do you want me to
make my enemy by telling him or her that the other isn't good enough?"

"I don't want you to do anything, except to be reasonable, and sympathize."

"Oh, I sympathize all round. I assure you I've no doubt you are quite right." And in this way
I crawled out of the discussion, as usual.

What a pretty simile it is, comparing life to a river, because rivers are so different! There
are the calm streams that flow eagerly from the youthful sources, join a kindred flood, and
go placidly to the sea, only broadening and deepening and getting very muddy at times, but
without a rapid or a fall. There are others that flow carelessly in the upper sunshine, begin
to ripple and dance, then run swiftly, and rush into rapids in which there is no escape (though
friends stand weeping and imploring on the banks) from the awful plunge of the cataract. Then
there is the tumult and the seething, the exciting race and rage through the canon, the whirlpools
and the passions of love and revelations of character, and finally, let us hope, the happy
emergence into the lake of a serene life. And the more interesting rivers are those that have
tumults and experiences.

I knew well enough before the next day was over that it was too late for the rescue of Margaret
or Henderson. They were in the rapids, and would have rejected any friendly rope thrown to
draw them ashore. And notwithstanding the doubts of my wife, I confess that I had so much sympathy
with the genuineness of it that I enjoyed this shock of two strong natures rushing to their
fate. Was it too sudden? Do two living streams hesitate when they come together? When they
join they join, and mingle and reconcile themselves afterwards. It is only canals that flow
languidly in parallel lines, and meet, if they meet at all, by the orderly contrivance of a lock.

In the morning the two were off for a stroll. There is a hill from which a most extensive prospect
is had of the city, the teeming valley, with a score of villages and innumerable white spires,
of forests and meadows and broken mountain ranges. It was a view that Margaret the night before
had promised to show Henderson, that he might see what to her was the loveliest landscape in
the world. Whether they saw the view I do not know. But I know the rock from which it is best
seen, and could fancy Margaret sitting there, with her face turned towards it and her hands
folded in her lap, and Henderson sitting, half turned away from it, looking in her face. There
is an apple orchard just below. It was in bloom, and all the invitation of spring was in the
air. That he saw all the glorious prospect reflected in her mobile face I do not doubt--all
the nobility and tenderness of it. If I knew the faltering talk in that hour of growing confidence
and expectation, I would not repeat it. Henderson lunched at the Forsythe's, and after lunch
he had some talk with Miss Forsythe. It must have been of an exciting nature to her, for, immediately
after, that good woman came over in a great flutter, and was closeted with my wife, who at
the end of the interview had an air of mysterious importance. It was evidently a woman's day,
and my advice was not wanted, even if my presence was tolerated. All I heard my wife say through
the opening door, as the consultation ended, was, "I hope she knows her own mind fully before
anything is decided."

As to the objects of this anxiety, they were upon the veranda of the cottage, quite unconscious
of the necessity of digging into their own minds. He was seated, and she was leaning against
the railing on which the honeysuckle climbed, pulling a flower in pieces.

"It is such a short time I have known you," she was saying, as if in apology for her own feeling.

"Yes, in one way;" and he leaned forward, and broke his sentence with a little laugh. "I think
I must have known you in some pre-existent state."

"Perhaps. And yet, in another way, it seems long--a whole month, you know." And the girl laughed
a little in her turn.

"It was the longest month I ever knew, after you left the city."

"Was it? I oughtn't to have said that first. But do you know, Mr. Henderson, you seem totally
different from any other man I ever knew."

That this was a profound and original discovery there could be no doubt, from the conviction
with which it was announced. "I felt from the first that I could trust you."

"I wish"--and there was genuine feeling in the tone--"I were worthier of such a generous trust."

There was a wistful look in her face--timidity, self-depreciation, worship--as Henderson rose
and stood near her, and she looked up while he took the broken flower from her hand. There
was but one answer to this, and in spite of the open piazza and the all-observant, all-revealing
day, it might have been given; but at the moment Miss Forsythe was seen hurrying towards them
through the shrubbery. She came straight to where they stood, with an air of New England directness
and determination. One hand she gave to Henderson, the other to Margaret. She essayed to speak,
but tears were in her eyes, and her lips trembled; the words would not come. She regarded them
for an instant with all the overflowing affection of a quarter of a century of repression,
and then quickly turned and went in. In a moment they followed her. Heaven go with them!

After Henderson had made his hasty adieus at our house and gone, before the sun was down, Margaret
came over. She came swiftly into the room, gave me a kiss as I rose to greet her, with a delightful
impersonality, as if she owed a debt somewhere and must pay it at once--we men who are so much
left out of these affairs have occasionally to thank Heaven for a merciful moment--seized my
wife, and dragged her to her room.

"I couldn't wait another moment," she said, as she threw herself on my wife's bosom in a passion
of tears. "I am so happy! he is so noble, and I love him so!" And she sobbed as if it were
the greatest calamity in the world. And then, after a little, in reply to a question--for women
are never more practical than in such a crisis: "Oh, no--not for a long, long, long time. Not
before autumn."

And the girl looked, through her glad tears, as if she expected to be admired for this heroism.
And I have no doubt she was.

XII

Well, that was another success. The world is round, and like a ball seems swinging in the air,
and swinging very pleasantly, thought Henderson, as he stepped on board the train that evening.
The world is truly what you make it, and Henderson was determined to make it agreeable. His
philosophy was concise, and might be hung up, as a motto: Get all you can, and don't fret about
what you cannot get.

He went into the smoking compartment, and sat musing by the window for some time before he
lit his cigar, feeling a glow of happiness that was new in his experience. The country was
charming at twilight, but he was little conscious of that. What he saw distinctly was Margaret's
face, trustful and wistful, looking up into his as she bade him goodby. What he was vividly
conscious of was being followed, enveloped, by a woman's love.

"You will write, dear, the moment you get there, will you not? I am so afraid of accidents,"
she had said.

"Why, I will telegraph, sweet," he had replied, quite gayly.

"Will you? Telegraph? I never had that sort of a message." It seemed a very wonderful thing
that he should use the public wire for this purpose, and she looked at him with new admiration.

"Are you timid about the train?" he asked.

"No. I never think of it. I never thought of it for myself; but this is different."

"Oh, I see." He put his arm round her and looked down into her eyes. This was a humorous suggestion
to him, who spent half his time on the trains. "I think I'll take out an accident policy."

"Don't say that. But you men are so reckless. Promise you won't stand on the platform, and
won't get off while the train is in motion, and all the rest of the directions," she said,
laughing a little with him; "and you will be careful?"

"I'll take such care of myself as I never did before, I promise. I never felt of so much consequence
in my life."

"You'll think me silly. But you know, don't you, dear?" She put a hand on each shoulder, and
pushing him back, studied his face. "You are all the world. And only to think, day before yesterday,
I didn't think of the trains at all."

To have one look like that from a woman! To carry it with him! Henderson still forgot to light
his cigar.

"Hello, Rodney!"

"Ah, Hollowell! I thought you were in Kansas City."

The new-comer was a man of middle age, thick set, with rounded shoulders, deep chest, heavy
neck, iron-gray hair close cut, gray whiskers cropped so as to show his strong jaw, blue eyes
that expressed at once resolution and good-nature.

"Well, how's things? Been up to fix the Legislature?"

"No; Perkins is attending to that," said Henderson, rather indifferently, like a man awakened
out of a pleasant dream. "Don't seem to need much fixing. The public are fond of parallels."

Hollowell laughed. "I guess that's so--till they get 'em."

"Or don't get them," Henderson added. And then both laughed.

"It looks as if it would go through this time. Bemis says the C. D.'s badly scared. They'll
have to come down lively."

"I shouldn't wonder. By-the-way, look in tomorrow. I've got something to show you."

Henderson lit his cigar, and they both puffed in silence for some moments.

"By-the-way, did I ever show you this?" Hollowell took from his breast-pocket a handsome morocco
case, and handed it to his companion. "I never travel without that. It's better than an accident
policy."

Henderson unfolded the case, and saw seven photographs--a showy-looking handsome woman in lace
and jewels, and six children, handsome like their mother, the whole group with the photographic
look of prosperity.

Henderson looked at it as if it had been a mirror of his own destiny, and expressed his admiration.

"Yes, it's hard to beat," Hollowell confessed, with a soft look in his face. "It's not for
sale. Seven figures wouldn't touch it." He looked at it lovingly before he put it up, and then
added: "Well, there's a figure for each, Rodney, and a big nest-egg for the old woman besides.
There's nothing like it, old man. You'd better come in." And he put his hand affectionately
on Henderson's knee.

Jeremiah Hollowell--commonly known as Jerry--was a remarkable man. Thirty years ago he had
come to the city from Maine as a "hand" on a coast schooner, obtained employment in a railroad
yard, then as a freight conductor, gone West, become a contractor, in which position a lucky
hit set him on the road of the unscrupulous accumulation of property. He was now a railway
magnate, the president of a system, a manipulator of dexterity and courage. All this would
not have come about if his big head had not been packed with common-sense brains, and he had
not had uncommon will and force of character. Success had developed the best side of him, the
family side; and the worst side of him--a brutal determination to increase his big fortune.
He was not hampered by any scruples in business, but he had the good-sense to deal squarely
with his friends when he had distinctly agreed to do so.

Henderson did not respond to the matrimonial suggestion; it was not possible for him to vulgarize
his own affair by hinting it to such a man as Hollowell; but they soon fell into serious talk
about schemes in which they were both interested. This talk so absorbed Henderson that after
they had reached the city he had walked some blocks towards his lodging before he recalled
his promise about the message. On his table he found a note from Carmen bidding him to dinner
informally--an invitation which he had no difficulty in declining on account of a previous
engagement. And then he went to his club, and passed a cheerful evening. Why not? There was
nothing melancholy about the young fellows in the smoking-room, who liked a good story and
the latest gossip, and were attracted to the society of Henderson, who was open-handed and
full of animal spirits, and above all had a reputation for success, and for being on the inside
of affairs. There is nowhere else so much wisdom and such understanding of life as in a city
club of young fellows, who have their experience still, for the most part, before them. Henderson
was that night in great "force"--as the phrase is. His companions thought he had made a lucky
turn, and he did not tell them that he had won the love of the finest girl in the world, who
was at that moment thinking of him as fondly as he was thinking of her--but this was the subconsciousness
of his gayety. Late at night he wrote her a long letter--an honest letter of love and admiration,
which warmed into the tenderness of devotion as it went on; a letter that she never parted
with all her life long; but he left a description of the loneliness of his evening without
her to her imagination.

It was for Margaret also a happy evening, but not a calm one, and not gay. She was swept away
by a flood of emotions. She wanted to be alone, to think it over, every item of the short visit,
every look, every tone. Was it all true? The great change made her tremble: of the future she
dared scarcely think. She was restless, but not restless as before; she could not be calm in
such a great happiness. And then the wonder of it, that he should choose her of all others--he
who knew the world so well, and must have known so many women. She followed him on his journey,
thinking what he was doing now, and now, and now. She would have given the world to see him
just for a moment, to look in his eyes and be sure again, to have him say that little word
once more: there was a kind of pain in her heart, the separation was so cruel; it had been
over two hours now. More than once in the evening she ran down to the sitting-room, where her
aunt was pretending to be absorbed in a book, to kiss her, to pet her, to smooth her grayish
hair and pat her cheek, and get her to talk about her girlhood days. She was so happy that
tears were in her eyes half the time. At nine o'clock there was a pull at the bell that threatened
to drag the wire out, and an insignificant little urchin appeared with a telegram, which frightened
Miss Forsythe, and seemed to Margaret to drop out of heaven. Such an absurd thing to do at
night, said the aunt, and then she kissed Margaret, and laughed a little, and declared that
things had come to a queer pass when people made love by telegraph. There wasn't any love in
the telegram, Margaret said; but she knew better--the sending word of his arrival was a marvelous
exhibition of thoughtfulness and constancy.

And then she led her aunt on to talk of Mr. Henderson, to give her impression, how he looked,
what she really thought of him, and so on, and so on.

There was not much to say, but it could be said over and over again in various ways. It was
the one night of the world, and her overwrought feeling sought relief. It would not be so again.
She would be more reticent and more coquettish about her lover, but now it was all so new and
strange.

That night when the girl went to sleep the telegram was under her pillow, and it seemed to
throb with a thousand messages, as if it felt the pulsation of the current that sent it.

The prospective marriage of the budding millionaire Rodney Henderson was a society paper item
in less than a week--the modern method of publishing the banns. This was accompanied by a patronizing
reference to the pretty school-ma'am, who was complimented upon her good-fortune in phrases
so neatly turned as to give Henderson the greatest offense, and leave him no remedy, since
nothing could have better suited the journal than further notoriety. He could not remember
that he had spoken of it to any one except the Eschelles, to whom his relations made the communication
a necessity, and he suspected Carmen, without, however, guessing that she was a habitual purveyor
of the town gossiper.

"It is a shameful impertinence," she burst out, introducing the subject herself, when he called
to see her. "I would horsewhip the editor." Her indignation was so genuine, and she took his
side with such warm good comradeship, that his suspicions vanished for a moment.

"What good?" he answered, cooling down at the sight of her rage. "It is true, we are to be
married, and she has taught school. I can't drag her name into a row about it. Perhaps she
never will see it."

"Oh dear! dear me! what have I done?" the girl cried, with an accent of contrition. "I never
thought of that. I was so angry that I cut it out and put it in the letter that was to contain
nothing but congratulations, and told her how perfectly outrageous I thought it. How stupid!"
and there was a world of trouble in her big dark eyes, while she looked up penitently, as if
to ask his forgiveness for a great crime.

"Well, it cannot be helped," Henderson said, with a little touch of sympathy for Carmen's grief.
"Those who know her will think it simply malicious, and the others will not think of it a second
time."

"But I cannot forgive myself for my stupidity. I'm not sure but I'd rather you'd think me wicked
than stupid," she continued, with the smile in her eyes that most men found attractive. "I
confess--is that very bad?--that I feel it more for you than for her. But" ( she thought she
saw a shade in his face) "I warn you, if you are not very nice, I shall transfer my affections
to her."

The girl was in her best mood, with the manner of a confiding, intimate friend. She talked
about Margaret, but not too much, and a good deal more about Henderson and his future, not
laying too great stress upon the marriage, as if it were, in fact, only an incident in his
career, contriving always to make herself appear as a friend, who hadn't many illusions or
much romance, to be sure, but who could always be relied on in any mood or any perplexity,
and wouldn't be frightened or very severe at any confidences. She posed as a woman who could
make allowances, and whose friendship would be no check or hinderance. This was conveyed in
manner as much as in words, and put Henderson quite at his ease. He was not above the weakness
of liking the comradeship of a woman of whom he was not afraid, a woman to whom he could say
anything, a woman who could make allowances. Perhaps he was hardly conscious of this. He knew
Carmen better than she thought he knew her, and he couldn't approve of her as a wife; and yet
the fact was that she never gave him any moral worries.

"Yes," she said, when the talk drifted that way, "the chrysalis earl has gone. I think that
mamma is quite inconsolable. She says she doesn't understand girls, or men, or anything, these
days."

"Do you?" asked Henderson, lightly.

"I? No. I'm an agnostic--except in religion. Have you got it into your head, my friend, that
I ever fancied Mr. Lyon?"

"Not for himself--" began Henderson, mischievously.

"That will do." She stopped him. "Or that he ever had any intention--"

"I don't see how he could resist such--"

"Stuff! See here, Mr. Rodney!" The girl sprang up, seized a plaque from the table, held it
aloft in one hand, took half a dozen fascinating, languid steps, advancing and retreating with
the grace of a Nautch girl, holding her dress with the other hand so as to allow a free movement.
"Do you think I'd ever do that for John the Lyon's head on a charger?"

Then her mood changed to the domestic, as she threw herself into an easy-chair and said: "After
all, I'm rather sorry he has gone. He was a man you could trust; that is, if you wanted to
trust anybody--I wish I had been made good."

When Henderson bade her good-night it was with the renewed impression that she was a very diverting
comrade.

"I'm sort of sorry for you," she said, and her eyes were not so serious as to offend, as she
gave him her hand, "for when you are married, you know, as the saying is, you'll want some
place to spend your evenings." The audacity of the remark was quite obscured in the innocent
frankness and sweetness of her manner.

What Henderson had to show Hollowell in his office had been of a nature greatly to interest
that able financier. It was a project that would have excited the sympathy of Carmen, but Henderson
did not speak of it to her--though he had found that she was a safe deposit of daring schemes
in general--on account of a feeling of loyalty to Margaret, to whom he had never mentioned
it in any of his daily letters. The scheme made a great deal of noise, later on, when it came
to the light of consummation in legislatures and in courts, both civil and criminal; but its
magnitude and success added greatly to Henderson's reputation as a bold and fortunate operator,
and gave him that consideration which always attaches to those who command millions of money,
and have the nerve to go undaunted through the most trying crises. I am anticipating by saying
that it absolutely ruined thousands of innocent people, caused widespread strikes and practical
business paralysis over a large region; but those things were regarded as only incidental to
a certain sort of development, and did not impair the business standing, and rather helped
the social position, of the two or three men who counted their gains by millions in the operation.
It furnished occupation and gave good fees to a multitude of lawyers, and was dignified by
the anxious consultation of many learned judges. A moralist, if he were poor and pessimistic,
might have put the case in a line, and taken that line from the Mosaic decalogue (which was
not intended for this new dispensation); but it was involved in such a cloud of legal technicalities,
and took on such an aspect of enterprise and development of resources, and what not, that the
general public mind was completely befogged about it. I am charitable enough to suppose that
if the scheme had failed, the public conscience is so tender that there would have been a question
of Henderson's honesty. But it did not fail.

Of this scheme, however, we knew nothing at the time in Brandon. Henderson was never in better
spirits, never more agreeable, and it did not need inquiry to convince one that he was never
so prosperous. He was often with us, in flying visits, and I can well remember that his coming
and the expectation of it gave a kind of elation to the summer--that and Margaret's supreme
and sunny happiness. Even my wife admitted that it was on both sides a love-match, and could
urge nothing against it except the woman's instinct that made her shrink from the point of
ever thinking of him as a husband for herself, which seemed to me a perfectly reasonable feeling
under all the circumstances.

The summer--or what we call summer in the North, which is usually a preparation for warm weather,
ending in a preparation for cold weather--seemed to me very short--but I have noticed that
each summer is a little shorter than the preceding one. If Henderson had wanted to gain the
confidence of my wife he could not have done so more effectually than he did in making us the
confidants of a little plan he had in the city, which was a profound secret to the party most
concerned. This was the purchase and furnishing of a house, and we made many clandestine visits
with him to town in the early autumn in furtherance of his plan. He was intent on a little
surprise, and when I once hinted to him that women liked to have a hand in making the home
they were to occupy, he said he thought that my wife knew Margaret's taste--and besides, he
added, with a smile, "it will be only temporary; I should like her, if she chooses, to build
and furnish a house to suit herself." In any one else this would have seemed like assumption,
but with Henderson it was only the simple belief in his career.

We were still more surprised when we came to see the temporary home that Henderson had selected,
the place where the bride was to alight, and look about her for such a home as would suit her
growing idea of expanding fortune and position. It was one of the old-fashioned mansions on
Washington Square, built at a time when people attached more importance to room and comfort
than to outside display--a house that seemed to have traditions of hospitality and of serene
family life. It was being thoroughly renovated and furnished, with as little help from the
decorative artist and the splendid upholsterer as consisted with some regard to public opinion;
in fact the expenditure showed in solid dignity and luxurious ease, and not in the construction
of a museum in which one could only move about with the constant fear of destroying something.
My wife was given almost carte blanche in the indulgence of her taste, and she confessed her
delight in being able for once to deal with a house without the feeling that she was ruining
me. Only in the suite designed for Margaret did Henderson seriously interfere, and insist upon
a luxury that almost took my wife's breath away. She opposed it on moral grounds. She said
that no true woman could stand such pampering of her senses without destruction of her moral
fibre. But Henderson had his way, as he always had it. What pleased her most in the house was
the conservatory, opening out from the drawing-room--a spacious place with a fountain and cool
vines and flowering plants, not a tropical hothouse in a stifling atmosphere, in which nothing
could live except orchids and flowers born near the equator, but a garden with a temperature
adapted to human lungs, where one could sit and enjoy the sunshine, and the odor of flowers,
and the clear and not too incessant notes of Mexican birds. But when it was all done, undoubtedly
the most agreeable room in the house was that to which least thought had been given, the room
to which any odds and ends could be sent, the room to which everybody gravitated when rest
and simple enjoyment without restraint were the object Henderson's own library, with its big
open fire, and the books and belongings of his bachelor days. Man is usually not credited with
much taste or ability to take care of himself in the matter of comfortable living, but it is
frequently noticed that when woman has made a dainty paradise of every other portion of the
house, the room she most enjoys, that from which it is difficult to keep out the family, is
the one that the man is permitted to call his own, in which he retains some of the comforts
and can indulge some of the habits of his bachelor days. There is an important truth in this
fact with regard to the sexes, but I do not know what it is.

They were married in October, and went at once to their own house. I suppose all other days
were but a preparation for this golden autumn day on which we went to church and returned to
the wedding-breakfast. I am sure everybody was happy. Miss Forsythe was so happy that tears
were in her eyes half the time, and she bustled about with an affectation of cheerfulness that
was almost contagious. Poor, dear, gentle lady! I can imagine the sensations of a peach-tree,
in an orchard of trees which bud and bloom and by-and-by are weighty with yellow fruit, year
after year--a peach-tree that blooms, also, but never comes to fruition, only wastes its delicate
sweetness on the air, and finally blooms less and less, but feels nevertheless in each returning
spring the stir of the sap and the longing for that fuller life, while all the orchard bursts
into flower, and the bees swarm about the pink promises, and the fruit sets and slowly matures
to lusciousness in the sun of July. I fancy the wedding, which robbed us all, was hardest for
her, for it was in one sense a finality of her life. Whereas if Margaret had regrets--and deep
sorrow she had in wrenching herself from the little neighborhood, though she never could have
guessed the vacancy she caused by the withdrawal of her loved presence--her own life was only
just beginning, and she was sustained by the longing which every human soul has for a new career,
by the curiosity and imagination which the traveler feels when he departs for a land which
he desires, and yet dreads to see lest his illusions should vanish. Margaret was about to take
that journey in the world which Miss Forsythe had dreamed of in her youth, but had never set
out on. There are some who say that those are happiest who keep at home and content themselves
with reading about the lands of the imagination. But happily the world does not believe this,
and indeed would be very unhappy if it could not try and prove all the possibilities of human
nature, to suffer as well as to enjoy.

I do not know how we fell into the feeling that this marriage was somehow exceptional and important,
since marriages take place every day, and are so common and ordinarily so commonplace, when
the first flutter is over. Even Morgan said, in his wife's presence, that he thought there
had been weddings enough; at least he would interdict those that upset things like this one.
For one thing, it brought about the house-keeping union of Mrs. Fletcher and Miss Forsythe
in the tatter's cottage--a sort of closing up of the ranks that happens on the field during
a fatal engagement. As we go on, it becomes more and more difficult to fill up the gaps.

We were very unwilling to feel that Margaret had gone out of our life. "But you cannot," Morgan
used to say, "be friends with the rich, and that is what makes the position of the very rich
so pitiful, for the rich get so tired of each other."

"But Margaret," my wife urged, "will never be of that sort: money will not change either her
habits or her affections."

"Perhaps. You can never trust to inherited poverty. I have no doubt that she will resist the
world, if anybody can, but my advice is that if you want to keep along with Margaret, you'd
better urge your husband to make money. Experience seems to teach that while they cannot come
to us, we may sometimes go to them."

My wife and Mrs. Fletcher were both indignant at this banter, and accused Morgan of want of
faith, and even lack of affection for Margaret; in short, of worldly-mindedness himself.

"Perhaps I am rather shop-worn," he confessed. "It's not distrust of Margaret's intentions,
but knowledge of the strength of the current on which she has embarked. Henderson will not
stop in his career short of some overwhelming disaster or of death."

"I thought you liked him? At any rate, Margaret will make a good use of his money."

"It isn't a question, my dear Mrs. Fairchild, of the use of money, but of the use money makes
of you. Yes, I do like Henderson, but I can't give up my philosophy of life for the sake of
one good fellow."

"Philosophy of fudge!" exclaimed my wife. And there really was no answer to this.

After six weeks had passed, my wife paid a visit to Margaret. Nothing could exceed the affectionate
cordiality of her welcome. Margaret was overjoyed to see her, to show the house, to have her
know her husband better, to take her into her new life. She was hardly yet over the naive surprises
of her lovely surroundings. Or if it is too mach to say that her surprise had lasted six weeks--for
it is marvelous how soon women adapt themselves to new conditions if they are agreeable--she
was in a glow of wonder at her husband's goodness, at his love, which had procured all this
happiness for her.

"You have no idea," she said, "how thoughtful he is about everything--and he makes so little
of it all. I am to thank you, he tells me always, for whatever pleases my taste in the house,
and indeed I think I should have known you had been here if he had not told me. There are so
many little touches that remind me of home. I am glad of that, for it is the more likely to
make you feel that it is your home also."

She clung to this idea in the whirl of the new life. In the first days she dwelt much on this
theme; indeed it was hardly second in her talk to her worship--I can call it nothing less--of
her husband. She liked to talk of Brandon and the dear life there and the dearer friends--this
much talk about it showed that it was another life, already of the past, and beginning to be
distant in the mind. My wife had a feeling that Margaret, thus early, was conscious of a drift,
of a widening space, and was making an effort to pull the two parts of her life together, that
there should be no break, as one carried away to sea by a resistless tide grasps the straining
rope that still maintains his slender connection with the shore.

But it was all so different: the luxurious house, the carriage at call, the box at the opera,
the social duties inevitable with her own acquaintances and the friends of her husband. She
spoke of this in moments of confidence, and when she was tired, with a consciousness that it
was a different life, but in no tone of regret, and I fancy that the French blood in her veins,
which had so long run decorously in Puritan channels, leaped at its return into new gayety.
Years ago Margaret had thought that she might some time be a missionary, at least that she
should like to devote her life to useful labors among the poor and the unfortunate. If conscience
ever reminded her of this, conscience was quieted by the suggestion that now she was in a position
to be more liberal than she ever expected to be; that is, to give everything except the essential
thing--herself. Henderson liked a gay house, brightness, dinners, entertainment, and that his
wife should be seen and admired. Proof of his love she found in all this, and she entered into
it with spirit, and an enjoyment increased by the thought that she was lightening the burden
of his business, which she could see pressed more and more. Not that Henderson made any account
of his growing occupations, or that any preoccupation was visible except to the eye of love,
which is quick to see all moods. These were indeed happy days, full of the brightness of an
expanding prosperity and unlimited possibilities of the enjoyment of life. It was in obedience
to her natural instinct, and not yet a feeling of compensation and propitiation, that enlisted
Margaret in the city charities, connection with which was a fashionable self-entertainment
with some, and a means of social promotion with others. My wife came home a little weary with
so much of the world, but, on the whole, impressed with Margaret's good-fortune. Henderson
in his own house was the soul of consideration and hospitality, and Margaret was blooming in
the beauty that shines in satisfied desire.

XIII

It is so painful to shrink, and so delightful to grow! Every one knows the renovation of feeling--often
mistaken for a moral renewal--when the worn dress of the day is exchanged for the fresh evening
toilet. The expansiveness of prosperity has a like effect, though the moralist is always piping
about the beneficent uses of adversity. The moralist is, of course, right, time enough given;
but what does the tree, putting out its tender green leaves to the wooing of the south wind,
care for the moralist? How charming the world is when you go with it, and not against it!

It was better than Margaret had thought. When she came to Washington in the winter season the
beautiful city seemed to welcome her and respond to the gayety of her spirit. It was so open,
cheerful, hospitable, in the appearance of its smooth, broad avenues and pretty little parks,
with the bronze statues which all looked noble--in the moonlight; it was such a combination
and piquant contrast of shabby ease and stately elegance--negro cabins and stone mansions,
picket-fences and sheds, and flower-banked terraces before rows of residences which bespoke
wealth and refinement. The very aspect of the street population was novel; compared to New
York, the city was as silent as a country village, and the passers, who have the fashion of
walking in the middle of the street upon the asphalt as freely as upon the sidewalks, had a
sort of busy leisureliness, the natural air of thousands of officials hived in offices for
a few hours and then left in irresponsible idleness. But what most distinguished the town,
after all, in Margaret's first glimpse of it, was the swarming negro population pervading every
part of it--the slouching plantation negro, the smart mulatto girl with gay raiment and mincing
step, the old-time auntie, the brisk waiter-boy with uncertain eye, the washerwoman, the hawkers
and fruiterers, the loafing strollers of both sexes--carrying everywhere color, abandon, a
certain picturesqueness and irresponsibility and good-nature, and a sense of moral relaxation
in a too strict and duty-ridden world.

In the morning, when Margaret looked from the windows of the hotel, the sky was gray and yielding,
and all the outlines of the looming buildings were softened in the hazy air. The dome of the
Capitol seemed to float like a bubble, and to be as unsubstantial as the genii edifices in
the Arabian tale. The Monument, the slim white shaft as tall as the Great Pyramid, was still
more a dream creation, not really made of hard marble, but of something as soft as vapor, almost
melting into the sky, and yet distinct, unwavering, its point piercing the upper air, threatening
every instant to dissolve, as if it were truly the baseless fabric of a vision--light, unreal,
ghost-like, spotless, pure as an unsullied thought; it might vanish in a breath; and yet, no;
it is solid: in the mist of doubt, in the assault of storms, smitten by the sun, beaten by
the tempests, it stands there, springing, graceful, immovable--emblem, let us say, of the purity
and permanence of the republic.

"You never half told me, Rodney, how beautiful it all is!" Margaret exclaimed, in a glow of
delight.

"Yes," said Henderson, "the Monument is behaving very well this morning. I never saw it before
look so little like a factory chimney."

"That is, you never looked at it with my eyes before, cynic. But it is all so lovely, everywhere."

"Of course it is, dear." They were standing together at the window, and his arm was where it
should have been. "What did you expect? There are concentrated here the taste and virtue of
sixty millions of people."

"But you always said the Washington hotels were so bad. These apartments are charming."

"Yes"--and he drew her closer to him--"there is no denying that. But presently I shall have
to explain to you an odd phenomenon. Virginia, you know, used to be famous for its good living,
and Maryland was simply unapproachable for good cooking. It was expected when the District
was made out of these two that the result would be something quite extraordinary in the places
of public entertainment. But, by a process which nobody can explain, in the union the art of
cooking in hotels got mislaid."

"Well," she said, with winning illogicality, "you've got me."

"If you could only eat the breakfasts for me, as you can see the Monument for me!"

"Dear, I could eat the Monument for you, if it would do you any good." And neither of them
was ashamed of this nonsense, for both knew that married people indulge in it when they are happy.

Although Henderson came to Washington on business, this was Margaret's wedding journey. There
is no other city in the world where a wedding journey can better be combined with such business
as is transacted here, for in both is a certain element of mystery. Washington is gracious
to a bride, if she is pretty and agreeable--devotion to governing, or to legislation, or to
diplomacy, does not render a man insensible to feminine attractions; and if in addition to
beauty a woman has the reputation of wealth, she is as nearly irresistible here as anywhere.
To Margaret, who was able to return the hospitality she received, and whose equipage was almost
as much admired as her toilets, all doors were open--a very natural thing, surely, in a good-natured,
give-and-take world. The colonel--Margaret had laughed till she cried when first she heard
her husband saluted by this title in Washington by his New Hampshire acquaintances, but he
explained to her that he had justly won it years ago by undergoing the hardship of receptions
as a member of the Governor's staff--the colonel had brought on his horses and carriages, not
at all by way of ostentation, but simply out of regard to what was due her as his wife, and
because a carriage at call is a constant necessity in this city, whose dignity is equal to
the square of its distances, and because there is something incongruous in sending a bride
about in a herdic. Margaret's unworldly simplicity had received a little shock when she first
saw her servants in livery, but she was not slow to see the propriety and even necessity of
it in a republican society, since elegance cannot be a patchwork, but must be harmonious, and
there is no harmony between a stylish turnout--noble horses nobly caparisoned--and a coachman
and footman on the box dressed according to their own vulgar taste. Given a certain position,
one's sense of fitness and taste mast be maintained. And there is so much kindliness and consideration
in human nature--Margaret's gorgeous coachman and footman never by a look revealed their knowledge
that she was new to the situation, and I dare say that their respectful demeanor contributed
to raise her in her own esteem as one of the select and favored in this prosperous world. The
most self-poised and genuine are not insensible to the tribute of this personal consideration.
My lady giving orders to her respectful servitors, and driving down the avenue in her luxurious
turnout, is not at all the same person in feeling that she would be if dragged about in a dissolute-looking
hack whose driver has the air of the stable. We take kindly to this transformation, and perhaps
it is only the vulgar in soul who become snobbish in it. Little by little, under this genial
consideration, Margaret advanced in the pleasant path of worldliness; and we heard, by the
newspapers and otherwise--indeed, Mr. and Mrs. Morgan were there for a couple of weeks in the
winter--that she was never more sweet and gracious and lovely than in this first season at
the capital. I don't know that the town was raving, as they said, about her beauty and wit--there
is nothing like the wit of a handsome woman--and amiability and unostentatious little charities,
but she was a great favorite. We used to talk about it by the fire in Brandon, where everything
reminded us of the girl we loved, and rejoice in her good-fortune and happiness, and get rather
heavy-hearted in thinking that she had gone away from us into such splendor.

"I wish you were here," she wrote to my wife. "I am sure you would enjoy it. There are so many
distinguished people and brilliant people--though the distinguished are not always brilliant
nor the brilliant distinguished--and everybody is so kind and hospitable, and Rodney is such
a favorite. We go everywhere, literally, and all the time. You must not scold, but I haven't
opened a book, except my prayerbook, in six weeks--it is such a whirl. And it is so amusing.
I didn't know there were so many kinds of people and so many sorts of provincialism in the
world. The other night, at the British Minister's, a French attache, who complimented my awful
French--I told him that I inherited all but the vocabulary and the accent--said that if specimens
of the different kinds of women evolved in all out-of-the-way places who come to Washington
could be exhibited, nobody would doubt any more that America is an interesting country. Wasn't
it an impudent speech? I tried to tell him, in French, how grateful American women are for
any little attention from foreigners who have centuries of politeness behind them. Ah me! I
sometimes long for one of the old-fashioned talks before your smoldering logs! What we talk
about here, Heaven only knows. I sometimes tell Rodney at night--it is usually morning--that
I feel like an extinct piece of fireworks. But next day it is all delightful again; and, dear
friend, I don't know but that I like being fireworks."

Among the men who came oftenest to see Henderson was Jerry Hollowell. It seemed to Margaret
an odd sort of companionship; it could not be any similarity of tastes that drew them together,
and she could not understand the nature of the business transacted in their mysterious conferences.
Social life had few attractions for Hollowell, for his family were in the West; he appeared
to have no relations with any branch of government; he wanted no office, though his influence
was much sought by those who did want it.

"You spend a good deal of time here, Mr. Hollowell," Margaret said one day when he called in
Henderson's absence.

"Yes, ma'am, considerable. Things need a good deal of fixing up. Washington is a curious place.
It's a sort of exchange for the whole country: you can see everybody here, and it is a good
place to arrange matters."

"With Congress, do you mean?" Margaret had heard much of the corruption of Congress.

"No, not Congress particularly. Congressmen are just about like other people. It's all nonsense,
this talk about buying Congressmen. You cannot buy them any more than you can buy other people,
but you can sort of work together with some of them. We don't want anything of Congress, except
to be let alone. If we are doing something to develop the trade in the Southwest, build it
up, some member who thinks he is smart will just as likely as not try to put in a block somewhere,
or investigate, or something, in order to show his independence, and then he has to be seen,
and shown that he is going against the interests of his constituents. It is just as it is everywhere:
men have to be shown what their real interest is. No; most Congressmen are poor, and they stay
poor. It is a good deal easier to deal with those among them who are rich and have some idea
about the prosperity of the country. It is just so in the departments. You've got to watch
things, if you expect them to go smooth. You've got to get acquainted with the men. Most men
are reasonable when you get well acquainted with them. I tell your husband that people are
about as reasonable in Washington as you'll find them anywhere."

"Washington is certainly very pleasant."

"Yes, that's so; it is pleasant. Where most everybody wants something, they are bound to be
accommodating. That's my idea. I reckon you don't find Jerry Hollowell trying to pull a cat
by its tail," he added, dropping into his native manner.

"Well, I must go and hunt up the old man. Glad to have made your acquaintance, Mrs. Henderson."
And then, with a sly look, "If I knew you better, ma'am, I should take the liberty of congratulating
you that Henderson has come round so handsomely."

"Come round?" asked Margaret, in amused wonder.

"Well, I took the liberty of giving him a hint that he wasn't cut-out for a single man. I showed
him that," and he lugged out his photograph-case from a mass of papers in his breast-pocket
and handed it to her.

"Ah, I see," said Margaret, studying the photographs with a peculiar smile.

"Oh, Henderson knows a good thing when he sees it," said Hollowell, complacently.

It was not easy to be offended with Hollowell's kind-hearted boorishness, and after he had
gone, Margaret sat a long time reflecting upon this new specimen of man in her experience.
She was getting many new ideas in these days, the moral lines were not as clearly drawn as
she had thought; it was impossible to ticket men off into good and bad. In Hollowell she had
a glimpse of a world low-toned and vulgar; she had heard that he was absolutely unscrupulous,
and she had supposed that he would appear to be a very wicked man. But he seemed to be good-hearted
and tolerant and friendly. How fond he was of his family, and how charitable about Congress!
And she wondered if the world was generally on Hollowell's level. She met many men more cultivated
than he, gentlemen in manner and in the first social position, who took, after all, about his
tone in regard to the world, very agreeable people usually, easy to get on with, not exacting,
or professing much faith in anybody, and mildly cynical--only bitterly cynical when they failed
to get what they wanted, and felt the good things of life slipping away from them. It was to
take her some time to learn that some of the most agreeable people are those who have succeeded
by the most questionable means; and when she came to this knowledge, what would be her power
of judgment as to these means?

"Mr. Hollowell has been here," she said, when Henderson returned.

"Old Jerry? He is a character."

"Do you trust him?"

"It never occurred to me. Yes, I suppose so, as far as his interests go. He isn't a bad sort
of fellow--very long-headed."

"Dear," said Margaret, with hesitation, "I wish you didn't have anything to do with such men."

"Why, dearest?"

"Oh, I don't know. You needn't laugh. It rather lets one down; and it isn't like you."

Henderson laughed aloud now. "But you needn't associate with Hollowell. We men cannot pick
our companions in business and politics. It needs all sorts to keep the world going."

"Then I'd rather let it stop," Margaret said.

"And sell out at auction?" he cried, with a look of amusement.

"But aren't Mr. Morgan and Mr. Fairchild business men?"

"Yes--of the old-fashioned sort. The fact--is, Margaret, you've got a sort of preserve up in
Brandon, and you fancy that the world is divided into sheep and goats. It's a great mistake.
There is no such division. Every man almost is both a sheep and a goat."

"I don't believe it, Rodney. You are neither." She came close to him, and taking the collar
of his coat in each hand, gave him a little shake, and looking up into his face with quizzical
affection, asked, "What is your business here?"

Henderson stooped down and kissed her forehead, and tenderly lifted the locks of her brown
hair. "You wouldn't understand, sweet, if I told you."

"You might try."

"Well, there's a man here from Fort Worth who wants us to buy a piece of railroad, and extend
it, and join it with Hollowell's system, and open up a lot of new country."

"And isn't it a good piece of road?"

"Yes; that's the trouble. The owners want to keep it to themselves, and prevent the general
development. But we shall get it."

"It isn't anything like wrecking, is it, dear?"

"Do you think we would want to wreck our own property?"

"But what has Congress to do with it?"

"Oh, there's a land grant. But some of the members who were not in the Congress that voted
it say that it is forfeited."

In this fashion the explanation went on. Margaret loved to hear her husband talk, and to watch
the changing expression of his face, and he explained about this business until she thought
he was the sweetest fellow in the world.

The Morgans had arrived at the same hotel, and Margaret went about with them in the daytime,
while Henderson was occupied. It was like a breath of home to be with them, and their presence,
reviving that old life, gave a new zest to the society spectacle, to the innocent round of
entertainments, which more and more absorbed her. Besides, it was very interesting to have
Mr. Morgan's point of view of Washington, and to see the shifting panorama through his experience.
He had been very much in the city in former years, but he came less and less now, not because
it was less beautiful or attractive in a way, but because it had lost for him a certain charm
it once had.

