They were met by Mr. Talbot with the sober reply that Master Humfrey was already set forth
on his journey.  The men, having no orders, never thought of pursuing him, and after a short
interval Richard thought it expedient to proceed to the Manor-house to explain matters.

The Countess swooped upon him in one of her ungovernable furies--one of those of which even
Gilbert Talbot avoided writing the particulars to his father--abusing his whole household in
general, and his son in particular, in the most outrageous manner, for thus receiving the favour
she had done to their beggarly, ill-favoured, ill-nurtured daughter.  Richard stood still and
grave, his hat in his hand, as unmoved and tranquil as if he had been breasting a stiff breeze
on the deck of his ship, with good sea-room and confidence in all his tackle, never even attempting
to open his lips, but looking at the Countess with a steady gaze which somehow disconcerted
her, for she demanded wherefore he stared at her like one of his clumsy hinds.

"Because her Ladyship does not know what she is saying," he replied.

"Darest thou!  Thou traitor, thou viper, thou unhanged rascal, thou mire under my feet, thou
blot on the house!  Darest thou beard me--me?" screamed my Lady.  "Darest thou--I say--"

If the sailor had looked one whit less calm and resolute, my Lady would have had her clenched
fist on his ear, or her talons in his beard, but he was like a rock against which the billows
expended themselves, and after more of the tempest than need stain these pages, she deigned
to demand what he meant or had to say for his son.

"Solely this, madam, that my son had never even heard of Babington's suit, far less that he
had your Ladyship's good-will.  He found him kneeling to Cicely in the garden, and the girl,
distressed and dismayed at his importunity.  There were hot words and drawn blades. That was
the whole.  I parted them and saw them join hands."

"So saith Master Babington.  He is willing to overlook the insult, so will I and my Lord, if
you will atone for it by instantly consenting to this espousal."

"That, madam, I cannot do."

She let him say no more, and the storm had begun to rage again, when Babington took advantage
of an interval to take breath, and said, "I thank you, madam, and pray you peace.  If a little
space be vouchsafed me, I trust to show this worthy gentleman cause wherefore he should no
longer withhold his fair damsel from me."

"Indeed!" said the Countess.  "Art thou so confident?  I marvel what better backer thou wouldst
have than me!  So conceited of themselves are young men now-a-days, they think, forsooth, their
own merits and graces should go farther in mating them than the word and will of their betters.
There, you may go!  I wash my hands of the matter. One is as ingrate as the other."

Both gentlemen accepted this amiable dismissal, each hoping that the Countess might indeed
have washed her hands of their affairs.  On his departure Richard was summoned into the closet
of the Earl, who had carefully kept out of the way during the uproar, only trusting not to
be appealed to.  "My good cousin," he asked, "what means this broil between the lads?  Hath
Babington spoken sooth?"

"He hath spoken well and more generously than, mayhap, I thought he would have done," said Richard.

"Ay; you have judged the poor youth somewhat hardly, as if the folly of pagedom never were
outgrown," said the Earl.  "I put him under governorship such as to drive out of his silly
pate all the wiles that he was fed upon here.  You will see him prove himself an honest Protestant
and good subject yet, and be glad enough to give him your daughter.  So he was too hot a lover
for Master Humfrey's notions, eh?" said my Lord, laughing a little.  "The varlet!  He was over
prompt to protect his sister, yet 'twas a fault on the right side, and I am sorry there was
such a noise about it that he should have gone without leave-takings."

"He will be glad to hear of your Lordship's goodness.  I shall go after him to-morrow and take
his mails and little Diccon to him."

"That is well," said the Earl.  "And give him this, with his kinsman's good wishes that he
may win ten times more from the Don," pushing towards Richard a packet of twenty broad gold
pieces, stamped with Queen Bess in all her glory; and then, after receiving due thanks for
the gift, which was meant half as friendly feudal patronage from the head of the family, half
as a contribution to the royal service, the Earl added, "I would crave of thee, Richard, to
extend thy journey to Wingfield.  Here are some accounts of which I could not sooner get the
items, to be discharged between me and the lady there--and I would fain send thee as the man
whom I can most entirely trust.  I will give thee a pass, and a letter to Sadler, bidding him
admit thee to her presence, since there are matters here which can sooner be discharged by
one word of mouth than by many weary lines of writing."

Good Master Richard's conscience had little occasion to wince, yet he could not but feel somewhat
guilty when this opportune commission was given to him, since the Earl gave it unaware of his
secret understanding with the captive.  He accepted it, however, without hesitation, since
he was certainly not going to make a mischievous use of it, and bent all his mind to understand
the complicated accounts that he was to lay before the Queen or her comptroller of the household.

He had still another interview to undergo with Antony Babington, who overtook him on his way
home through the crackling leaves that strewed the avenue, as the October twilight fell.  His
recent conduct towards Humfrey gave him a certain right to friendly attention, though, as the
frank-hearted mariner said to himself, it was hard that a plain man, who never told a lie,
nor willingly had a concealment of his own, should be involved in a many-sided secret like
this, a sort of web, where there was no knowing whether straining the wrong strand might not
amount to a betrayal, all because he had rescued an infant, and not at once proclaimed her
an alien.

"Sir," said Antony, "if my impatience to accost the maiden we wot of, when I saw her alone,
had not misled me, I should have sought you first to tell you that no man knows better than
I that my Lady Countess's good will is not what is wanting to forward my suit."

"Knowing then that it is not in my power or right to dispose of her, thine ardent wooing was
out of place," said Richard.

"I own it, sir, though had I but had time I should have let the maiden know that I sought her
subject to other approval, which I trust to obtain so as to satisfy you."

"Young man," said Richard, "listen to friendly counsel, and meddle not in perilous matters.
I ask thee not whether Dethick hath any commerce with Wingfield; but I warn thee earnestly
to eschew beginning again that which caused the trouble of thy childhood.  Thou mayst do it
innocently, seeking the consent of the lady to this courtship of thine; but I tell thee, as
one who knows more of the matter than thou canst, that thou wilt only meet with disappointment."

"Hath the Queen other schemes for her?" asked Babington, anxiously; and Richard, thinking of
the vista of possible archdukes, replied that she had; but that he was not free to speak, though
he replied to Babington's half-uttered question that his son Humfrey was by no means intended.

"Ah!" cried Antony, "you give me hope, sir.  I will do her such service that she shall refuse
me nothing!  Sir! do you mock me!" he added, with a fierce change of note.

"My poor lad, I could not but laugh to think what a simple plotter you are, and what fine service
you will render if thou utterest thy vows to the very last person who should hear them!  Credit
me, thou wast never made for privy schemes and conspiracies, and a Queen who can only be served
by such, is no mistress for thee.  Thou wilt but run thine own neck into the noose, and belike
that of others."

"That will I never do," quoth Antony.  "I may peril myself, but no others."

"Then the more you keep out of secrets the better.  Thou art too open-hearted and unguarded
for them!  So speaks thy well-wisher, Antony, whose friendship thou hast won by thine honourable
conduct towards my rash boy; though I tell thee plainly, the maiden is not for thee, whether
as Scottish or English, Cis or Bride."

So they parted at the gate of the park, the younger man full of hope and confidence, the elder
full of pitying misgiving.

He was too kind-hearted not to let Cicely know that he should see her mother, or to refuse
to take a billet for her,--a little formal note necessarily silent on the matter at issue,
since it had to be laid before the Earl, who smiled at the scrupulous precaution, and let it pass.

Thus the good father parted with Humfrey and Diccon, rejoicing in his heart that they would
fight with open foes, instead of struggling with the meshes of perplexity, which beset all
concerned with Queen Mary, and then he turned his horse's head towards Wingfield Manor, a grand
old castellated mansion of the Talbots, considered by some to excel even Sheffield.  It stood
high, on ground falling very steeply from the walls on three sides, and on the south well fortified,
court within court, and each with a deep-arched and portcullised gateway, with loopholed turrets
on either side, a porter's lodge, and yeomen guards.

Mr. Talbot had to give his name and quality, and show his pass, at each of these gates, though
they were still guarded by Shrewsbury retainers, with the talbot on their sleeves.  He was,
however, received with the respect and courtesy due to a trusted kinsman of their lord; and
Sir Ralf Sadler, a thin, elderly, careworn statesman, came to greet him at the door of the
hall, and would only have been glad could he have remained a week, instead of for the single
night he wished to spend at Wingfield.

Sadler was one of Mary's most gentle and courteous warders, and he spoke of her with much kindness,
regretting that her health had again begun to suffer from the approach of winter, and far more
from disappointment.

The negotiation with Scotland on her behalf was now known to have been abortive.  James had
fallen into the hands of the faction most hostile to her, and though his mother still clung
with desperate hope to the trust that he, at least, was labouring on her behalf, no one else
believed that he cared for anything but his own security, and even she had been forced to perceive
that her liberation was again adjourned.

"And what think you was her thought when she found that road closed up?" said Sir Ralf.  "Why,
for her people!  Her gentlewoman, Mrs. Mowbray, hath, it seems, been long betrothed."

"Ay, to Gilbert Curll, the long-backed Scotch Secretary.  They were to be wed at Stirling so
soon as she arrived there again."

"Yea; but when she read the letter that overthrew her hopes, what did she say but that 'her
servants must not grow gray-headed with waiting till she was set free'!  So she would have
me make the case known to Sir Parson, and we had them married in the parish church two days
since, they being both good Protestants."

"There is no doubt that her kindness of heart is true," said Richard. "The poor folk at Sheffield
and Ecclesfield will miss her plentiful almsgiving."

"Some say it ought to be hindered, for that it is but a purchasing of friends to her cause,"
said Sadler; "but I have not the heart to check it, and what could these of the meaner sort
do to our Queen's prejudice?  I take care that nothing goes among them that could hide a billet,
and that none of her people have private speech with them, so no harm can ensue from her bounty."

A message here came that the Queen was ready to admit Mr. Talbot, and Richard found himself
in her presence chamber, a larger and finer room than that in the lodge at Sheffield, and with
splendid tapestry hangings and plenishings; but the windows all looked into the inner quadrangle,
instead of on the expanse of park, and thus, as Mary said, she felt more entirely the prisoner.
This, however, was not perceptible at the time, for the autumn evening had closed in; there
were two large fires burning, one at each end of the room, and tall tapestry-covered screens
and high-backed settles were arranged so as to exclude the draughts around the hearth, where
Mary reclined on a couch-like chair.  She looked ill, and though she brightened with her sweet
smile to welcome her guest, there were dark circles round her eyes, and an air of dejection
in her whole appearance.  She held out her hand graciously, as Richard approached, closely
followed by his host; he put his knee to the ground and kissed it, as she said, "You must pardon
me, Mr. Talbot, for discourtesy, if I am less agile than when we were at Buxton.  You see my
old foe lies in wait to plague me with aches and pains so soon as the year declines."

"I am sorry to see your Grace thus," returned Richard, standing on the step.

"The while I am glad to see you thus well, sir.  And how does the good lady, your wife, and
my sweet playfellow, your daughter?"

"Well, madam, I thank your Grace, and Cicely has presumed to send a billet by mine hand."

"Ah! the dear bairnie," and all the Queen's consummate art could not repress the smile of gladness
and the movement of eager joy with which she held out her hand for it, so that Richard regretted
its extreme brevity and unsatisfying nature, and Mary, recollecting herself in a second, added,
smiling at Sadler, "Mr. Talbot knows how a poor prisoner must love the pretty playfellows that
are lent to her for a time."

Sir Ralf's presence hindered any more intimate conversation, and Richard had certainly committed
a solecism in giving Cicely's letter the precedence over the Earl's.  The Queen, however, had
recalled her caution, and inquired for the health of the Lord and Lady, and, with a certain
sarcasm on her lips, trusted that the peace of the family was complete, and that they were
once more setting Hallamshire the example of living together as household doves.

Her hazel eyes meantime archly scanned the face of Richard, who could not quite forget the
very undovelike treatment he had received, though he could and did sturdily aver that "my Lord
and my Lady were perfectly reconciled, and seemed most happy in their reunion."

"Well-a-day, let us trust that there will be no further disturbances to their harmony," said
Mary, "a prayer I may utter most sincerely. Is the little Arbell come back with them?"

"Yea, madam."

"And is she installed in my former rooms, with the canopy over her cradle to befit her strain
of royalty?"

"I think not, madam.  Meseems that my Lady Countess hath seen reason to be heedful on that
score.  My young lady hath come back with a grave gouvernante, who makes her read her primer
and sew her seam, and save that she sat next my Lady at the wedding feast there is little difference
made between her and the other grandchildren."

The Queen then inquired into the circumstances of the wedding festivities with the interest
of one to whom most of the parties were more or less known, and who seldom had the treat of
a little feminine gossip.  She asked who had been "her little Cis's partner," and when she
heard of Babington, she said, "Ah ha, then, the poor youth has made his peace with my Lord?"

"Certes, madam, he is regarded with high favour by both my Lord and my Lady," said Richard,
heartily wishing himself rid of his host.

"I rejoice to hear it," said Mary; "I was afraid that his childish knight-errantry towards
the captive dame had damaged the poor stripling's prospects for ever.  He is our neighbour
here, and I believe Sir Ralf regards him as somewhat perilous."

"Nay, madam, if my Lord of Shrewsbury be satisfied with him, so surely ought I to be," said
Sir Ralf.

Nothing more of importance passed that night.  The packet of accounts was handed over to Sir
Andrew Melville, and the two gentlemen dismissed with gracious good-nights.

Richard Talbot was entirely trusted, and when the next morning after prayers, breakfast, and
a turn among the stables, it was intimated that the Queen was ready to see him anent my Lord's
business, Sir Ralf Sadler, who had his week's report to write to the Council, requested that
his presence might be dispensed with, and thus Mr. Talbot was ushered into the Queen's closet
without any witnesses to their interview save Sir Andrew Melville and Marie de Courcelles.
The Queen was seated in a large chair, leaning against cushions, and evidently in a good deal
of pain, but, as Richard made his obeisance, her eyes shone as she quoted two lines from an
old Scotch ballad--

          "'Madame, how does my gay goss hawk?
            Madame, how does my doo?'

Now can I hear what I hunger for!"

"My gay gosshawk, madam, is flown to join Sir Francis Drake at Plymouth, and taken his little
brother with him.  I come now from speeding them as far as Derby."

"Ah! you must not ask me to pray for success to them, my good sir,--only that there may be
a time when nations may be no more divided, and I fear me we shall not live to see it.  And
my doo--my little Cis, did she weep as became a sister for the bold laddies?"

"She wept many tears, madam, but we are sore perplexed by a matter that I must lay before your
Grace.  My Lady Countess is hotly bent on a match between the maiden and young Babington."

"Babington!" exclaimed the Queen, with the lioness sparkle in her eye. "You refused the fellow
of course?"

"Flatly, madam, but your Grace knows that it is ill making the Countess accept a denial of
her will."

Mary laughed  "Ah ha! methought, sir, you looked somewhat as if you had had a recent taste
of my Lord of Shrewsbury's dove.  But you are a man to hold your own sturdy will, Master Richard,
let Lord or Lady say what they choose."

"I trust so, madam, I am master of mine own house, and, as I should certainly not give mine
own daughter to Babington, so shall I guard your Grace's."

"You would not give the child to him if she were your own?"

"No, madam."

"And wherefore not?  Because he is too much inclined to the poor prisoner and her faith?  Is
it so, sir?"

"Your Grace speaks the truth in part," said Richard, and then with effort added, "and likewise,
madam, with your pardon, I would say that though I verily believe it is nobleness of heart
and spirit that inclines poor Antony to espouse your Grace's cause, there is to my mind a shallowness
and indiscretion about his nature, even when most in earnest, such as would make me loath to
commit any woman, or any secret, to his charge."

"You are an honest man, Mr. Talbot," said Mary; "I am glad my poor maid is in your charge.
Tell me, is this suit on his part made to your daughter or to the Scottish orphan?"

"To the Scottish orphan, madam.  Thus much he knows, though by what means I cannot tell, unless
it be through that kinsman of mine, who, as I told your Grace, saw the babe the night I brought
her in."

"Doubtless," responded Mary.  "Take care he neither knows more, nor hints what he doth know
to the Countess."

"So far as I can, I will, madam," said Richard, "but his tongue is not easy to silence; I marvel
that he hath not let the secret ooze out already."

"Proving him to have more discretion than you gave him credit for, my good sir," said the Queen,
smiling.  "Refuse him, however, staunchly, grounding your refusal, if it so please you, on
the very causes for which I should accept him, were the lassie verily what he deems her, my
ward and kinswoman.  Nor do you accede to him, whatever word or token he may declare that he
brings from me, unless it bear this mark," and she hastily traced a peculiar-twisted form of
M.  "You know it?" she asked.

"I have seen it, madam," said Richard, gravely, for he knew it as the letter which had been
traced on the child's shoulders.

"Ah, good Master Richard," she said, with a sweet and wistful expression, looking up to his
face in pleading, and changing to the familiar pronoun, "thou likest not my charge, and I know
that it is hard on an upright man like thee to have all this dissembling thrust on thee, but
what can a poor captive mother do but strive to save her child from an unworthy lot, or from
captivity like her own?  I ask thee to say nought, that is all, and to shelter the maid, who
hath been as thine own daughter, yet a little longer.  Thou wilt not deny me, for her sake."

"Madam, I deny nothing that a Christian man and my Queen's faithful servant may in honour do.
Your Grace has the right to choose your own daughter's lot, and with her I will deal as you
direct me.  But, madam, were it not well to bethink yourself whether it be not a perilous and
a cruel policy to hold out a bait to nourish hope in order to bind to your service a foolish
though a generous youth, whose devotion may, after all, work you and himself more ill than good?"

Mary looked a good deal struck, and waved back her two attendants, who were both startled and
offended at what Marie de Courcelles described as the Englishman's brutal boldness.

"Silence, dear friends," said she.  "Would that I had always had counsellors who would deal
with me with such honour and disinterestedness.  Then should I not be here."

However, she then turned her attention to the accounts, where Sir Andrew Melville was ready
to question and debate every item set down by Shrewsbury's steward; while his mistress showed
herself liberal and open-handed.  Indeed she had considerable command of money from her French
dowry, the proceeds of which were, in spite of the troubles of the League, regularly paid to
her, and no doubt served her well in maintaining the correspondence which, throughout her captivity,
eluded the vigilance of her keepers.  On taking leave of her, which Richard Talbot did before
joining his host at the mid-day meal, she reiterated her thanks for his care of her daughter,
and her charges to let no persuasion induce him to consent to Babington's overtures, adding
that she hoped soon to obtain permission to have the maiden amongst her authorised attendants.
She gave him a billet, loosely tied with black floss silk and unsealed, so that if needful,
Sadler and Shrewsbury might both inspect the tender, playful, messages she wrote to her "mignonne,"
and which she took care should not outrun those which she had often addressed to Bessie Pierrepoint.

Cicely was a little disappointed when she first opened the letter, but ere long she bethought
herself of the directions she had received to hold such notes to the fire, and accordingly
she watched, waiting even till the next day before she could have free and solitary access
to either of the two fires in the house, those in the hall and in the kitchen.

At last, while the master was out farming, Ned at school, and the mistress and all her maids
engaged in the unsavoury occupation of making candles, by repeated dipping of rushes into a
caldron of melted fat, after the winter's salting, she escaped under pretext of attending to
the hall fire, and kneeling beside the glowing embers, she held the paper over it, and soon
saw pale yellow characters appear and deepen into a sort of brown or green, in which she read,
"My little jewel must share the ring with none less precious.  Yet be not amazed if commendations
as from me be brought thee.  Jewels are sometimes useful to dazzle the eyes of those who shall
never possess them.  Therefore seem not cold nor over coy, so as to take away all hope.  It
may be much for my service.  Thou art discreet, and thy good guardians will hinder all from
going too far.  It might be well that he should deem thee and me inclined to what they oppose.
Be secret.  Keep thine own counsel, and let them not even guess what thou hast here read. 
So fare thee well, with my longing, yearning blessing."

Cicely hastily hid the letter in the large housewifely pocket attached to her girdle, feeling
excited and important at having a real secret unguessed by any one, and yet experiencing some
of the reluctance natural to the pupil of Susan Talbot at the notion of acting a part towards
Babington.  She really liked him, and her heart warmed to him as a true friend of her much-injured
mother, so that it seemed the more cruel to delude him with false hopes.  Yet here was she
asked to do a real service to her mother!

Poor Cis, she knelt gazing perplexed into the embers, now and then touching a stick to make
them glow, till Nat, the chief of "the old blue bottles of serving-men," came in to lay the
cloth for dinner, exclaiming, "So, Mistress Cis!  Madam doth cocker thee truly, letting thee
dream over the coals, till thy face be as red as my Lady's new farthingale, while she is toiling
away like a very scullion."

CHAPTER XXI.

A TANGLE.

It was a rainy November afternoon.  Dinner was over, the great wood fire had been made up,
and Mistress Talbot was presiding over the womenfolk of her household and their tasks with
needle and distaff. She had laid hands on her unwilling son Edward to show his father how well
he could read the piece de resistance of the family, Fabyan's Chronicle; and the boy, with
an elbow firmly planted on either side of the great folio, was floundering through the miseries
of King Stephen's time; while Mr. Talbot, after smoothing the head of his largest hound for
some minutes, had leant back in his chair and dropped asleep. Cicely's hand tardily drew out
her thread, her spindle scarcely balanced itself on the floor, and her maiden meditation was
in an inactive sort of way occupied with the sense of dulness after the summer excitements,
and wonder whether her greatness were all a dream, and anything would happen to recall her
once more to be a princess. The kitten at her feet took the spindle for a lazily moving creature,
and thought herself fascinating it, so she stared hard, with only an occasional whisk of the
end of her striped tail; and Mistress Susan was only kept awake by her anxiety to adapt Diccon's
last year's jerkin to Ned's use.

Suddenly the dogs outside bayed, the dogs inside pricked their ears, Ned joyfully halted, his
father uttered the unconscious falsehood, "I'm not asleep, lad, go on," then woke up as horses'
feet were heard; Ned dashed out into the porch, and was in time to hold the horse of one of
the two gentlemen, who, with cloaks over their heads, had ridden up to the door.  He helped
them off with their cloaks in the porch, exchanging greetings with William Cavendish and Antony
Babington.

"Will Mrs. Talbot pardon our riding-boots?" said the former.  "We have only come down from
the Manor-house, and we rode mostly on the grass."

Their excuses were accepted, though Susan had rather Master William had brought any other companion.
However, on such an afternoon, almost any variety was welcome, especially to the younger folk,
and room was made for them in the circle, and according to the hospitality of the time, a cup
of canary fetched for each to warm him after the ride, while another was brought to the master
of the house to pledge them in--a relic of the barbarous ages, when such a security was needed
that the beverage was not poisoned.

Will Cavendish then explained that a post had come that morning to his stepfather from Wingfield,
having been joined on the way by Babington (people always preferred travelling in companies
for security's sake), and that, as there was a packet from Sir Ralf Sadler for Master Richard,
he had brought it down, accompanied by his friend, who was anxious to pay his devoirs to the
ladies, and though Will spoke to the mother, he smiled and nodded comprehension at the daughter,
who blushed furiously, and set her spindle to twirl and leap so violently, as to make the kitten
believe the creature had taken fright, and was going to escape.  On she dashed with a sudden
spring, involving herself and it in the flax.  The old watch-dog roused himself with a growl
to keep order.  Cicely flung herself on the cat, Antony hurried to the rescue to help her disentangle
it, and received a fierce scratch for his pains, which made him start back, while Mrs. Talbot
put in her word. "Ah, Master Babington, it is ill meddling with a cat in the toils, specially
for men folk!  Here, Cis, hold her fast and I will soon have her free.  Still, Tib!"

Cicely's cheeks were of a still deeper colour as she held fast the mischievous favourite, while
the good mother untwisted the flax from its little claws and supple limbs, while it winked,
twisted its head about sentimentally, purred, and altogether wore an air of injured innocence
and forgiveness.

"I am afraid, air, you receive nothing but damage at our house," said Mrs. Talbot politely.
"Hast drawn blood?  Oh fie! thou ill-mannered Tib!  Will you have a tuft from a beaver to stop
the blood?"

"Thanks, madam, no, it is a small scratch.  I would, I would that I could face truer perils
for this lady's sake!"

"That I hope you will not, sir," said Richard, in a serious tone, which conveyed a meaning
to the ears of the initiated, though Will Cavendish only laughed, and said,

"Our kinsman takes it gravely!  It was in the days of our grandfathers that ladies could throw
a glove among the lions, and bid a knight fetch it out for her love."

"It has not needed a lion to defeat Mr. Babington," observed Ned, looking up from his book
with a sober twinkle in his eye, which set them all laughing, though his father declared that
he ought to have his ears boxed for a malapert varlet.

Will Cavendish declared that the least the fair damsel could do for her knight-errant was to
bind up his wounds, but Cis was too shy to show any disposition so to do, and it was Mrs. Talbot
who salved the scratch for him.  She had a feeling for the motherless youth, upon whom she
foreboded that a fatal game might be played.

When quiet was restored, Mr. Talbot craved license from his guests, and opened the packet.
There was a letter for Mistress Cicely Talbot in Queen Mary's well-known beautiful hand, which
Antony followed with eager eyes, and a low gasp of "Ah! favoured maiden," making the good mother,
who overheard it, say to herself, "Methinks his love is chiefly for the maid as something appertaining
to the Queen, though he wots not how nearly.  His heart is most for the Queen herself, poor lad."

The maiden did not show any great haste to open the letter, being aware that the true gist
of it could only be discovered in private, and her father was studying his own likewise in
silence.  It was from Sir Ralf Sadler to request that Mistress Cicely might be permitted to
become a regular member of the household.  There was now a vacancy since, though Mrs. Curll
was nearly as much about the Queen as ever, it was as the secretary's wife, not as one of the
maiden attendants; and Sir Ralf wrote that he wished the more to profit by the opportunity,
as he might soon be displaced by some one not of a temper greatly to consider the prisoner's
wishes.  Moreover, he said the poor lady was ill at ease, and much dejected at the tenor of
her late letters from Scotland, and that she had said repeatedly that nothing would do her
good but the presence of her pretty playfellow. Sir Ralf added assurances that he would watch
over the maiden like his own daughter, and would take the utmost care of the faith and good
order of all within his household. Curll also wrote by order of his mistress a formal application
for the young lady, to which Mary had added in her own hand, "I thank the good Master Richard
and Mrs. Susan beforehand, for I know they will not deny me."

Refusal was, of course, impossible to a mother who had every right to claim her own child;
and there was nothing to be done but to fix the time for setting off: and Cicely, who had by
this time read her own letter, or at least all that was on the surface, looked up tremulous,
with a strange frightened gladness, and said, "Mother, she needs me."

"I shall shortly be returning home," said Antony, "and shall much rejoice if I may be one of
the party who will escort this fair maiden."

"I shall take my daughter myself on a pillion, sir," said Richard, shortly.

"Then, sir, I may tell my Lord that you purpose to grant this request," said Will Cavendish,
who had expected at least some time to be asked for deliberation, and knew his mother would
expect her permission to be requested.

"I may not choose but do so," replied Richard; and then, thinking he might have said too much,
he added, "It were sheer cruelty to deny any solace to the poor lady."

"Sick and in prison, and balked by her only son," added Susan, "one's heart cannot but ache
for her."

"Let not Mr. Secretary Walsingham hear you say so, good madam," said Cavendish, smiling.  "In
London they think of her solely as a kind of malicious fury shut up in a cage, and there were
those who looked askance at me when I declared that she was a gentlewoman of great sweetness
and kindness of demeanour.  I believe myself they will not rest till they have her blood!"

Cis and Susan cried out with horror, and Babington with stammering wrath demanded whether she
was to be assassinated in the Spanish fashion, or on what pretext a charge could be brought
against her. "Well," Cavendish answered, "as the saying is, give her rope enough, and she will
hang herself.  Indeed, there's no doubt but that she tampered enough with Throckmorton's plot
to have been convicted of misprision of treason, and so she would have been, but that her most
sacred Majesty, Queen Elizabeth, would have no charge made against her.

"Treason from one sovereign to another, that is new law!" said Babington.

"So to speak," said Richard; "but if she claim to be heiress to the crown, she must also be
a subject.  Heaven forefend that she should come to the throne!"

To which all except Cis and Babington uttered a hearty amen, while a picture arose before the
girl of herself standing beside her royal mother robed in velvet and ermine on the throne,
and of the faces of Lady Shrewsbury and her daughter as they recognised her, and were pardoned.

Cavendish presently took his leave, and carried the unwilling Babington off with him, rightly
divining that the family would wish to make their arrangements alone.  To Richard's relief,
Babington had brought him no private message, and to Cicely's disappointment, there was no
addition in sympathetic ink to her letter, though she scorched the paper brown in trying to
bring one out.  The Scottish Queen was much too wary to waste and risk her secret expedients
without necessity.

To Richard and Susan this was the real resignation of their foster-child into the hands of
her own parent.  It was true that she would still bear their name, and pass for their daughter,
but that would be only so long as it might suit her mother's convenience; and instead of seeing
her every day, and enjoying her full confidence (so far as they knew), she would be out of
reach, and given up to influences, both moral and religious, which they deeply distrusted;
also to a fate looming in the future with all the dark uncertainty that brooded over all connected
with Tudor or Stewart royalty.

How much good Susan wept and prayed that night, only her pillow knew, not even her husband;
and there was no particular comfort when my Lady Countess descended on her in the first interval
of fine weather, full of wrath at not having been consulted, and discharging it in all sorts
of predictions as to Cis's future.  No honest and loyal husband would have her, after being
turned loose in such company; she would be corrupted in morals and manners, and a disgrace
to the Talbots; she would be perverted in faith, become a Papist, and die in a nunnery beyond
sea; or she would be led into plots and have her head cut off; or pressed to death by the peine
forte et dure.

Susan had nothing to say to all this, but that her husband thought it right, and then had a
little vigorous advice on her own score against tamely submitting to any man, a weakness which
certainly could not be laid to the charge of the termagant of Hardwicke.

Cicely herself was glad to go.  She loved her mother with a romantic enthusiastic affection,
missed her engaging caresses, and felt her Bridgefield home eminently dull, flat, and even
severe, especially since she had lost the excitement of Humfrey's presence, and likewise her
companion Diccon.  So she made her preparations with a joyful alacrity, which secretly pained
her good foster-parents, and made Susan almost ready to reproach her with ingratitude.

They lectured her, after the fashion of the time, on the need of never forgetting her duty
to her God in her affection to her mother, Susan trusting that she would never let herself
be led away to the Romish faith, and Richard warning her strongly against untruth and falsehood,
though she must be exposed to cruel perplexities as to the right-- "But if thou be true to
man, thou wilt be true to God," he said.  "If thou be false to man, thou wilt soon be false
to thy God likewise."

"We will pray for thee, child," said Susan.  "Do thou pray earnestly for thyself that thou
mayest ever see the right."

"My queen mother is a right pious woman.  She is ever praying and reading holy books," said
Cis.  "Mother Susan, I marvel you, who know her, can speak thus."

"Nay, child, I would not lessen thy love and duty to her, poor soul, but it is not even piety
in a mother that can keep a maiden from temptation.  I blame not her in warning thee."

Richard himself escorted the damsel to her new home.  There was no preventing their being joined
by Babington, who, being well acquainted with the road, and being also known as a gentleman
of good estate, was able to do much to make their journey easy to them, and secure good accommodation
for them at the inns, though Mr. Talbot entirely baffled his attempts to make them his guests,
and insisted on bearing a full share of the reckoning.  Neither did Cicely fulfil her mother's
commission to show herself inclined to accept his attentions.  If she had been under contrary
orders, there would have been some excitement in going as far as she durst, but the only effect
on her was embarrassment, and she treated Antony with the same shy stiffness she had shown
to Humfrey, during the earlier part of his residence at home. Besides, she clung more and more
to her adopted father, who, now that they were away from home and he was about to part with
her, treated her with a tender, chivalrous deference, most winning in itself, and making her
feel herself no longer a child.

Arriving at last at Wingfield, Sir Ralf Sadler had hardly greeted them before a messenger was
sent to summon the young lady to the presence of the Queen of Scots.  Her welcome amounted
to ecstasy. The Queen rose from her cushioned invalid chair as the bright young face appeared
at the door, held out her arms, gathered her into them, and, covering her with kisses, called
her by all sorts of tender names in French and Scottish.

"O ma mie, my lassie, ma fille, mine ain wee thing, how sweet to have one bairn who is mine,
mine ain, whom they have not robbed me of, for thy brother, ah, thy brother, he hath forsaken
me!  He is made of the false Darnley stuff, and compacted by Knox and Buchanan and the rest,
and he will not stand a blast of Queen Elizabeth's wrath for the poor mother that bore him.
Ay, he hath betrayed me, and deluded me, my child; he hath sold me once more to the English
loons!  I am set faster in prison than ever, the iron entereth into my soul.  Thou art but
daughter to a captive queen, who looks to thee to be her one bairn, one comfort and solace."

Cicely responded by caresses, and indeed felt herself more than ever before the actual daughter,
as she heard with indignation of James's desertion of his mother's cause; but Mary, whatever
she said herself, would not brook to hear her speak severely of him.  "The poor laddie," she
said, "he was no better than a prisoner among those dour Scots lords," and she described in
graphic terms some of her own experiences of royalty in Scotland.

The other ladies all welcomed the newcomer as the best medicine both to the spirit and body
of their Queen.  She was regularly enrolled among the Queen's maidens, and shared their meals.
Mary dined and supped alone, sixteen dishes being served to her, both on "fish and flesh days,"
and the reversion of these as well as a provision of their own came to the higher table of
her attendants, where Cicely ranked with the two Maries, Jean Kennedy, and Sir Andrew Melville.
There was a second table, at which ate the two secretaries, Mrs. Curll, and Elizabeth Curll,
Gilbert's sister, a most faithful attendant on the Queen.  As before, she shared the Queen's
chamber, and there it was that Mary asked her, "Well, mignonne, and how fares it with thine
ardent suitor?  Didst say that he rode with thee?"

"As far as the Manor gates, madam."

"And what said he?  Was he very pressing?"

"Nay, madam, I was ever with my father--Mr. Talbot."

"And he keeps the poor youth at arm's length.  Thine other swain, the sailor, his son, is gone
off once more to rob the Spaniards, is he not?--so there is the more open field."

"Ay! but not till he had taught Antony a lesson."

The Queen made Cis tell the story of the encounter, at which she was much amused.  "So my princess,
even unknown, can make hearts beat and swords ring for her.  Well done! thou art worthy to
be one of the maids in Perceforest or Amadis de Gaul, who are bred in obscurity, and set all
the knights a sparring together.  Tourneys are gone out since my poor gude-father perished
by mischance at one, or we would set thee aloft to be contended for."

"O madame mere, it made me greatly afraid, and poor Humfrey had to go off without leave-taking,
my Lady Countess was so wrathful."

"So my Lady Countess is playing our game, is she!  Backing Babington and banishing Talbot?
Ha, ha," and Mary again laughed with a merriment that rejoiced the faithful ears of Jean Kennedy,
under her bedclothes, but somewhat vexed Cicely.  "Indeed, madam mother," she said, "if I must
wed under my degree, I had rather it were Humfrey than Antony Babington."

"I tell thee, simple child, thou shall wed neither.  A woman does not wed every man to whom
she gives a smile and a nod.  So long as thou bear'st the name of this Talbot, he is a good
watch-dog to hinder Babington from winning thee: but if my Lady Countess choose to send the
swain here, favoured by her to pay his court to thee, why then, she gives us the best chance
we have had for many a long day of holding intercourse with our friends without, and a hope
of thee will bind him the more closely."

"He is all yours, heart and soul, already, madam."

"I know it, child, but men are men, and no chains are so strong as can be forged by a lady's
lip and eye, if she do it cunningly.  So said my belle mere in France, and well do I believe
it.  Why, if one of the sour-visaged reformers who haunt this place chanced to have a daughter
with sweetness enough to temper the acidity, the youth might be throwing up his cap the next
hour for Queen Bess and the Reformation, unless we can tie him down with a silken cable while
he is in the mind."

"Yea, madam, you who are beautiful and winsome, you can do such things, I am homely and awkward."

"Mort de ma vie, child! the beauty of the best of us is in the man's eyes who looks at us.
'Tis true, thou hast more of the Border lassie than the princess.  The likeness of some ewe-milking,
cheese-making sonsie Hepburn hath descended to thee, and hath been fostered by country breeding.
But thou hast by nature the turn of the neck, and the tread that belong to our Lorraine blood,
the blood of Charlemagne, and now that I have thee altogether, see if I train thee not so as
to bring out the princess that is in thee; and so, good-night, my bairnie, my sweet child;
I shall sleep to-night, now that I have thy warm fresh young cheek beside mine.  Thou art life
to me, my little one."

CHAPTER XXII.

TUTBURY

James VI. again cruelly tore his mother's heart and dashed her hopes by an unfeeling letter,
in which he declared her incapable of being treated with, since she was a prisoner and deposed.
The not unreasonable expectation, that his manhood might reverse the proceedings wrought in
his name in his infancy, was frustrated.  Mary could no longer believe that he was constrained
by a faction, but perceived clearly that he merely considered her as a rival, whose liberation
would endanger his throne, and that whatever scruples he might once have entertained had given
way to English gold and Scottish intimidation.

"The more simple was I to look for any other in the son of Darnley and the pupil of Buchanan,"
said she, "but a mother's heart is slow to give up her trust."

"And is there now no hope?" asked Cicely.

"Hope, child?  Dum spiro, spero.  The hope of coming forth honourably to him and to Elizabeth
is at an end.  There is another mode of coming forth," she added with a glittering eye, "a
mode which shall make them rue that they have driven patience to extremity."

"By force of arms?  Oh, madam!" cried Cicely.

"And wherefore not?  My noble kinsman, Guise, is the paramount ruler in France, and will soon
have crushed the heretics there; Parma is triumphant in the Low Countries, and has only to
tread out the last remnants of faction with his iron boot.  They wait only the call, which
my motherly weakness has delayed, to bring their hosts to avenge my wrongs, and restore this
island to the true faith.  Then thou, child, wilt be my heiress.  We will give thee to one
who will worthily bear the sceptre, and make thee blessed at home.  The Austrians make good
husbands, I am told.  Matthias or Albert would be a noble mate for thee; only thou must be
trained to more princely bearing, my little home-bred lassie."

In spite--nay, perhaps, in consequence--of these anticipations, an entire change began for
Cicely.  It was as if all the romance of her princely station had died out and the reality
had set in.  Her freedom was at an end.  As one of the suite of the Queen of Scots, she was
as much a prisoner as the rest; whereas before, both at Buxton and Sheffield, she had been
like a dog or kitten admitted to be petted and played with, but living another life elsewhere,
while now there was nothing to relieve the weariness and monotony of the restraint.

Nor was the petting what it was at first.  Mary was far from being in the almost frolicsome
mood which had possessed her at Buxton; her hopes and spirits had sunk to the lowest pitch,
and though she had an admirably sweet and considerate temper, and was scarcely ever fretful
or unreasonable with her attendants, still depression, illness, and anxiety could not but tell
on her mode of dealing with her surroundings.  Sometimes she gave way entirely, and declared
she should waste away and perish in her captivity, and that she only brought misery and destruction
on all who tried to befriend her; or, again, that she knew that Burghley and Walsingham were
determined to have her blood.

It was in these moments that Cicely loved her most warmly, for caresses and endearments soothed
her, and the grateful affection which received them would be very sweet.  Or in a higher tone,
she would trust that, if she were to perish, she might be a martyr and confessor for her Church,
though, as she owned, the sacrifice would be stained by many a sin; and she betook herself
to the devotions which then touched her daughter more than in any other respect.

More often, however, her indomitable spirit resorted to fresh schemes, and chafed fiercely
and hotly at thought of her wrongs; and this made her the more critical of all that displeased
her in Cicely.

Much that had been treated as charming and amusing when Cicely was her plaything and her visitor
was now treated as unbecoming English rusticity.  The Princess Bride must speak French and
Italian, perhaps Latin; and the girl, whose literary education had stopped short when she ceased
to attend Master Sniggius's school, was made to study her Cicero once more with the almoner,
who was now a French priest named De Preaux, while Queen Mary herself heard her read French,
and, though always good-natured, was excruciated by her pronunciation.

Moreover, Mary was too admirable a needlewoman not to wish to make her daughter the same; whereas
Cicely's turn had always been for the department of housewifery, and she could make a castle
in pastry far better than in tapestry; but where Queen Mary had a whole service of cooks and
pantlers of her own, this accomplishment was uncalled for, and was in fact considered undignified.
She had to sit still and learn all the embroidery stitches and lace-making arts brought by
Mary from the Court of France, till her eyes grew weary, her heart faint, and her young limbs
ached for the freedom of Bridgefield Pleasaunce and Sheffield Park.

Her mother sometimes saw her weariness, and would try to enliven her by setting her to dance,
but here poor Cicely's untaught movements were sure to incur reproof; and even if they had
been far more satisfactory to the beholders, what refreshment were they in comparison with
gathering cranberries in the park, or holding a basket for Ned in the apple-tree?  Mrs. Kennedy
made no scruple of scolding her roundly for fretting in a month over what the Queen had borne
for full eighteen years.

"Ah!" said poor Cicely, "but she had always been a queen, and was used to being mewed up close!"

And if this was the case at Wingfield, how much more was it so at Tutbury, whither Mary was
removed in January.  The space was far smaller, and the rooms were cold and damp; there was
much less outlet, the atmosphere was unwholesome, and the furniture insufficient.  Mary was
in bed with rheumatism almost from the time of her arrival, but she seemed thus to become the
more vigilant over her daughter, and distressed by her shortcomings.  If the Queen did not
take exercise, the suite were not supposed to require any, and indeed it was never desired
by her elder ladies, but to the country maiden it was absolute punishment to be thus shut up
day after day. Neither Sir Ralf Sadler nor his colleague, Mr. Somer, had brought a wife to
share the charge, so that there was none of the neutral ground afforded by intercourse with
the ladies of the Talbot family, and at first the only variety Cicely ever had was the attendance
at chapel on the other side of the court.

It was remarkable that Mary discouraged all proselytising towards the Protestants of her train,
and even forbore to make any open attempt on her daughter's faith. "Cela viendra," she said
to Marie de Courcelles. "The sermons of M. le Pasteur will do more to convert her to our side
than a hundred controversial arguments of our excellent Abbe; and when the good time comes,
one High Mass will be enough to win her over."

"Alas! when shall we ever again assist at the Holy Sacrifice in all its glory!" sighed the lady.

"Ah, my good Courcelles! of what have you not deprived yourself for me! Sacrifice, ah! truly
you share it!  But for the child, it would give needless offence and difficulty were she to
embrace our holy faith at present.  She is simple and impetuous, and has not yet sufficiently
outgrown the rude straightforward breeding of the good housewife, Madam Susan, not to rush
into open confession of her faith, and then! oh the fracas!  The wicked wolves would have stolen
a precious lamb from M. le Pasteur's fold!  Master Richard would be sent for!  Our restraint
would be the closer!  Moreover, even when the moment of freedom strikes, who knows that to
find her of their own religion may not win us favour with the English?"

So, from whatever motive, Cis remained unmolested in her religion, save by the weariness of
the controversial sermons, during which the young lady contrived to abstract her mind pretty
completely.  If in good spirits she would construct airy castles for her Archduke; if dispirited,
she yearned with a homesick feeling for Bridgefield and Mrs. Talbot.  There was something in
the firm sober wisdom and steady kindness of that good lady which inspired a sense of confidence,
for which no caresses nor brilliant auguries could compensate.

Weary and cramped she was to the point of having a feverish attack, and on one slightly delirious
night she fretted piteously after "mother," and shook off the Queen's hand, entreating that
"mother, real mother," would come.  Mary was much pained, and declared that if the child were
not better the next day she should have a messenger sent to summon Mrs. Talbot.  However, she
was better in the morning; and the Queen, who had been making strong representations of the
unhealthiness and other inconveniences of Tutbury, received a promise that she should change
her abode as soon as Chartley, a house belonging to the young Earl of Essex, could be prepared
for her.

The giving away large alms had always been one of her great solaces--not that she was often
permitted any personal contact with the poor: only to sit at a window watching them as they
flocked into the court, to be relieved by her servants under supervision from some officer
of her warders, so as to hinder any surreptitious communication from passing between them.
Sometimes, however, the poor would accost her or her suite as she rode out; and she had a great
compassion for them, deprived, as she said, of the alms of the religious houses, and flogged
or branded if hunger forced them into beggary.  On a fine spring day Sir Ralf Sadler invited
the ladies out to a hawking party on the banks of the Dove, with the little sparrow hawks,
whose prey was specially larks.  Pity for the beautiful soaring songster, or for the young
ones that might be starved in their nests, if the parent birds were killed, had not then been
thought of.  A gallop on the moors, though they were strangely dull, gray, and stony, was always
the best remedy for the Queen's ailments; and the party got into the saddle gaily, and joyously
followed the chase, thinking only of the dexterity and beauty of the flight of pursuer and
pursued, instead of the deadly terror and cruel death to which they condemned the created creature,
the very proverb for joyousness.

It was during the halt which followed the slaughter of one of the larks, and the reclaiming
of the hawk, that Cicely strayed a little away from the rest of the party to gather some golden
willow catkins and sprays of white sloe thorn wherewith to adorn a beaupot that might cheer
the dull rooms at Tutbury.

She had jumped down from her pony for the purpose, and was culling the branch, when from the
copsewood that clothed the gorge of the river a ragged woman, with a hood tied over her head,
came forward with outstretched hand asking for alms.

"Yon may have something from the Queen anon, Goody, when I can get back to her," said Cis,
not much liking the looks or the voice of the woman.

"And have you nothing to cross the poor woman's hand with, fair mistress?" returned the beggar.
"She brought you fair fortune once; how know you but she can bring you more?"

And Cicely recognised the person who had haunted her at Sheffield, Tideswell, and Buxton, and
whom she had heard pronounced to be no woman at all.

"I need no fortune of your bringing," she said proudly, and trying to get nearer the rest of
the party, heartily wishing she was on, not off, her little rough pony.

"My young lady is proud," said her tormentor, fixing on her the little pale eyes she so much
disliked.  "She is not one of the maidens who would thank one who can make or mar her life,
and cast spells that can help her to a princely husband or leave her to a prison."

"Let go," said Cicely, as she saw a retaining hand laid on her pony's bridle; "I will not be
beset thus."

"And this is your gratitude to her who helped you to lie in a queen's bosom; ay, and who could
aid you to rise higher or fall lower?"

"I owe nothing to you," said Cicely, too angry to think of prudence. "Let me go!"

There was a laugh, and not a woman's laugh.  "You owe nothing, quoth my mistress?  Not to one
who saw you, a drenched babe, brought in from the wreck, and who gave the sign which has raised
you to your present honours?  Beware!"

By this time, however, the conversation had attracted notice, and several riders were coming
towards them.

There was an immediate change of voice from the threatening tone to the beggar's whine; but
the words were--"I must have my reward ere I speak out."

"What is this?  A masterful beggar wife besetting Mistress Talbot," said Mr. Somer, who came first.

"I had naught to give her," said Cicely.

"She should have the lash for thus frightening you," said Somer. "Yonder lady is too good to
such vagabonds, and they come about us in swarms.  Stand back, woman, or it may be the worse
for you.  Let me help you to your horse, Mistress Cicely."

Instead of obeying, the seeming woman, to gain time perhaps, began a story of woe; and Mr.
Somer, being anxious to remount the young lady, did not immediately stop it, so that before
Cis was in her saddle the Queen had ridden up, with Sir Ralf Sadler a little behind her.  There
were thus a few seconds free, in which the stranger sprang to the Queen's bridle and said a
few hasty words almost inaudibly, and as Cis thought, in French; but they were answered aloud
in English--"My good woman, I know all that you can tell me, and more, of this young lady's
fortune.  Here are such alms as are mine to give; but hold your peace, and quit us now."

Sir Ralf Sadler and his son-in-law both looked suspicious at this interview, and bade one of
the grooms ride after the woman and see what became of her, but the fellow soon lost right
of her in the broken ground by the river-side.

When the party reached home, there was an anxious consultation of the inner circle of confidantes
over Cicely's story.  Neither she nor the Queen had the least doubt that the stranger was Cuthbert
Langston, who had been employed as an agent of hers for many years past; his insignificant
stature and colourless features eminently fitting him for it.  No concealment was made now
that he was the messenger with the beads and bracelets, which were explained to refer to some
ivory beads which had been once placed among some spare purchased by the Queen, and which Jean
had recognised as part of a rosary belonging to poor Alison Hepburn, the nurse who had carried
the babe from Lochleven.  This had opened the way to the recovery of her daughter. Mary and
Sir Andrew Melville had always held him to be devotedly faithful, but there had certainly been
something of greed, and something of menace in his language which excited anxiety.  Cicely
was sure that his expressions conveyed that he really knew her royal birth, and meant to threaten
her with the consequences, but the few who had known it were absolutely persuaded that this
was impossible, and believed that he could only surmise that she was of more importance than
an archer's daughter.

He had told the Queen in French that he was in great need, and expected a reward for his discretion
respecting what he had brought her.  And when he perceived the danger of being overheard, he
had changed it into a pleading, "I did but tell the fair young lady that I could cast a spell
that would bring her some good fortune.  Would her Grace hear it?"

"So," said Mary, "I could but answer him as I did, Sadler and Somer being both nigh.  I gave
him my purse, with all there was therein. How much was it, Andrew?"

"Five golden pieces, besides groats and testers, madam," replied Sir Andrew.

"If he come again, he must have more, if it can be contrived without suspicion," said the Queen.
"I fear me he may become troublesome if he guess somewhat, and have to be paid to hold his tongue."

"I dread worse than that," said Melville, apart to Jean Kennedy; "there was a scunner in his
een that I mislikit, as though her Grace had offended him.  And if the lust of the penny-fee
hath possessed him, 'tis but who can bid the highest, to have him fast body and soul. Those
lads! those lads!  I've seen a mony of them.  They'll begin for pure love of the Queen and
of Holy Church, but ye see, 'tis lying and falsehood and disguise that is needed, and one way
or other they get so in love with it, that they come at last to lie to us as well as to the
other side, and then none kens where to have them! Cuthbert has been over to that weary Paris,
and once a man goes there, he leaves his truth and honour behind him, and ye kenna whether
he be serving you, or Queen Elizabeth, or the deil himsel'. I wish I could stop that loon's
thrapple, or else wot how much he kens anent our Lady Bride."

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE LOVE TOKEN.

"Yonder woman came to tell this young lady's fortune," said Sir Ralf, a few days later.  "Did
she guess what I, an old man, have to bode for her!" and he smiled at the Queen.  "Here is
a token I was entreated by a young gentleman to deliver to this young lady, with his humble
suit that he may pay his devoirs to her to-morrow, your Grace permitting."

"I knew not," said Mary, "that my women had license to receive visitors."

"Assuredly not, as a rule, but this young gentleman, Mr. Babington of Dethick, has my Lord
and Lady of Shrewsbury's special commendation."

"I knew the young man," said Mary, with perfectly acted heedlessness. "He was my Lady Shrewsbury's
page in his boyhood.  I should have no objection to receive him."

"That, madam, may not be," returned Sadler.  "I am sorry to say it is contrary to the orders
of the council, but if Mr. and Mrs. Curll, and the fair Mistress Cicely, will do me the honour
to dine with me to-morrow in the hall, we may bring about the auspicious meeting my Lady desires."

Cicely's first impulse had been to pout and say she wanted none of Mr. Babington's tokens,
nor his company; but her mother's eye held her back, and besides any sort of change of scene,
or any new face, could not but be delightful, so there was a certain leap of the young heart
when the invitation was accepted for her; and she let Sir Ralf put the token into her hand,
and a choice one it was.  Everybody pressed to look at it, while she stood blushing, coy and
unwilling to display the small egg-shaped watch of the kind recently invented at Nuremberg.
Sir Ralf observed that the young lady showed a comely shamefast maidenliness, and therewith
bowed himself out of the room.

Cicely laughed with impatient scorn.  "Well spoken, reverend seignior," she said, as she found
herself alone with the Queen.  "I wish my Lady Countess would leave me alone.  I am none of hers."

"Nay, mademoiselle, be not thus disdainful," said the Queen, in a gay tone of banter; "give
me here this poor token that thou dost so despise, when many a maiden would be distraught with
delight and gratitude.  Let me see it, I say."

And as Cicely, restraining with difficulty an impatient, uncourtly gesture, placed the watch
in her hand, her delicate deft fingers opened the case, disregarding both the face and the
place for inserting the key; but dealing with a spring, which revealed that the case was double,
and that between the two thin plates of silver which formed it, was inserted a tiny piece of
the thinnest paper, written from corner to corner with the smallest characters in cipher. 
Mary laughed joyously and triumphantly as she held it up.  "There, mignonne!  What sayest thou
to thy token now?  This is the first secret news I have had from the outer world since we came
to this weary Tutbury.  And oh! the exquisite jest that my Lady and Sir Ralf Sadler should
be the bearers! I always knew some good would come of that suitor of thine!  Thou must not
flout him, my fair lady, nor scowl at him so with thy beetle brows."

"It seems but hard to lure him on with false hopes," said Cicely, gravely.

"Hoots, lassie," as Dame Jean would say, "'tis but joy and delight to men to be thus tickled.
'Tis the greatest kindness we can do them thus to amuse them," said Mary, drawing up her head
with the conscious fascination of the serpent of old Nile, and toying the while with the ciphered
letter, in eagerness, and yet dread, of what it might contain.

Such things were not easy to make out, even to those who had the key, and Mary, unwilling to
trust it out of her own hands, leant over it, spelling it out for many minutes, but at last
broke forth into a clear ringing burst of girlish laughter and clasped her hands together,
"Mignonne, mignonne, it is too rare a jest to hold back. Deem not that your Highness stands
first here!  Oh no!  'Tis a letter from Bernardo de Mendoza with a proposition for whose hand
thinkest thou?  For this poor old captive hand!  For mine, maiden.  Ay, and from whom?  From
his Excellency, the Prince of Parma, Lieutenant of the Netherlands.  Anon will he be here with
30,000 picked men and the Spanish fleet; and then I shall ride once again at the head of my
brave men, hear trumpets bray, and see banners fly!  We will begin to work our banner at once,
child, and let Sir Ralf think it is a bed-quilt for her sacred Majesty, Elizabeth.  Thou look'st
dismayed, little maiden."

"Spanish ships and men, madam, ah! and how would it be with my father--Mr. and Mrs. Talbot,
I mean?"

"Not a hair of their heads shall be touched, child.  We will send down a chosen troop to protect
them, with Babington at its head if thou wilt.  But," added the Queen, recollecting herself,
and perceiving that she had startled and even shocked her daughter, "it is not to be to-morrow,
nor for many a weary month.  All that is here demanded is whether, all being well, he might
look for my hand as his guerdon. Shall I propose thine instead?"

"O madam, he is an old man and full of gout!"

"Well! we will not pull caps for him just yet.  And see, thou must be secret as the grave,
child, or thou wilt ruin thy mother.  I ought not to have told thee, but the surprise was too
much for me, and thou canst keep a secret.  Leave me now, child, and send me Monsieur Nau."

The next time any converse was held between mother and daughter, Queen Mary said,  "Will it
grieve thee much, my lassie, to return this bauble, on the plea of thy duty to the good couple
at Bridgefield?"

After all Cicely had become so fond of the curious and ingenious egg that she was rather sorry
to part with it, and there was a little dismal resignation in her answer, "I will do your bidding,
madam."

"Thou shalt have a better.  I will write to Chateauneuf for the choicest that Paris can furnish,"
said Mary, "but seest thou, none other mode is so safe for conveying an answer to this suitor
of mine! Nay, little one, do not fear.  He is not at hand, and if he be so gout-ridden and
stern as I have heard, we will find some way to content him and make him do the service without
giving thee a stepfather, even though he be grandson to an emperor."

There was something perplexing and distressing to Cis in this sudden mood of exultation at
such a suitor.  However, Parma's proposal might mean liberty and a recovered throne, and who
could wonder at the joy that even the faintest gleam of light afforded to one whose captivity
had lasted longer than Cicely's young life?--and then once more there was an alternation of
feeling at the last moment, when Cicely, dressed in her best, came to receive instructions.

"I ken not, I ken not," said Mary, speaking the Scottish tongue, to which she recurred in her
moments of deepest feeling, "I ought not to let it go.  I ought to tell the noble Prince to
have naught to do with a being like me.  'Tis not only the jettatura wherewith the Queen Mother
used to reproach me.  Men need but bear me good will, and misery overtakes them.  Death is
the best that befalls them!  The gentle husband of my girlhood--then the frantic Chastelar,
my poor, poor good Davie, Darnley, Bothwell, Geordie Douglas, young Willie, and again Norfolk,
and the noble and knightly Don John!  One spark of love and devotion to the wretched Mary,
and all is over with them! Give me back that paper, child, and warn Babington against ever
dreaming of aid to a wretch like me.  I will perish alone!  It is enough!  I will drag down
no more generous spirits in the whirlpool around me."

"Madam! madam!" exclaimed De Preaux the almoner, who was standing, "this is not like your noble
self.  Have you endured so much to be fainthearted when the end is near, and you are made a
smooth and polished instrument, welded in the fire, for the triumph of the Church over her
enemies?"

"Ah, Father!" said the Queen, "how should not my heart fail me when I think of the many high
spirits who have fallen for my sake?  Ay, and when I look out on yonder peaceful vales and
happy homesteads, and think of them ravaged by those furious Spaniards and Italians, whom my
brother of Anjou himself called very fiends!"

"Fiends are the tools of Divine wrath," returned Preaux.  "Look at the profaned sanctuaries
and outraged convents on which these proud English have waxen fat, and say whether a heavy
retribution be not due to them."

"Ah, father!  I may be weak, but I never loved persecution.  King Francis and I were dragged
to behold the executions at Amboise.  That was enough for us.  His gentle spirit never recovered
it, and I--I see their contorted visages and forms still in my restless nights; and if the
Spanish dogs should deal with England as with Haarlem or Antwerp, and all through me!--Oh!
I should be happier dying within these walls!"

"Nay, madam, as Queen you would have the reins in your own hand: you could exercise what wholesome
severity or well-tempered leniency you chose," urged the almoner; "it were ill requiting the
favour of the saints who have opened this door to you at last to turn aside now in terror at
the phantasy that long weariness of spirit hath conjured up before you."

So Mary rallied herself, and in five minutes more was as eager in giving her directions to
Cicely and to the Curlls as though her heart had not recently failed her.

Cis was to go forth with her chaperons, not by any means enjoying the message to Babington,
and yet unable to help being very glad to escape for ever so short a time from the dull prison
apartments. There might be no great faith in her powers of diplomacy, but as it was probable
that Babington would have more opportunity of conversing with her than with the Curlls, she
was charged to attend heedfully to whatever he might say.

Sir Ralf's son-in-law, Mr. Somer, was sent to escort the trio to the hall at the hour of noon;
and there, pacing the ample chamber, while the board at the upper end was being laid, were
Sir Ralf Sadler and his guest Mr. Babington.  Antony was dressed in green velvet slashed with
primrose satin, setting off his good mien to the greatest advantage, and he came up with suppressed
but rapturous eagerness, bowing low to Mrs. Curll and the secretary, but falling on his knee
to kiss the hand of the dark-browed girl.  Her recent courtly training made her much less rustically
awkward than she would have been a few months before, but she was extremely stiff, and held
her head as though her ruff were buckram, as she began her lesson.  "Sir, I am greatly beholden
to you for this token, but if it be not sent with the knowledge and consent of my honoured
father and mother I may not accept of it."

"Alas! that you will say so, fair mistress," said Antony, but he was probably prepared for
this rejection, for he did not seem utterly overwhelmed by it.

"The young lady exercises a wise discretion," said Sir Ralf Sadler to Mrs. Curll. "If I had
known that mine old friend Mr. Talbot of Bridgefield was unfavourable to the suit, I would
not have harboured the young spark, but when he brought my Lady Countess's commendation, I
thought all was well."

Barbara Curll had her cue, namely, to occupy Sir Ralf so as to leave the young people to themselves,
so she drew him off to tell him in confidence a long and not particularly veracious story of
the objections of the Talbots to Antony Babington; whilst her husband engaged the attention
of Mr. Somer, and there was a space in which, as Antony took back the watch, he was able to
inquire "Was the egg-shell opened?"

"Ay," said Cis, blushing furiously and against her will, "the egg was sucked and replenished."

"Take consolation," said Antony, and as some one came near them, "Duty and discretion shall,
I trust, both be satisfied when I next sun myself in the light of those lovely eyes."  Then,
as the coast became more clear, "You are about shortly to move.  Chartley is preparing for you."

"So we are told."

"There are others preparing," said Antony, bending over her, holding her hand, and apparently
making love to her with all his might. "Tell me, lady, who hath charge of the Queen's buttery?
Is it faithful old Halbert as at Sheffield?"

"It is," replied Cis.

"Then let him look well at the bottom of each barrel of beer supplied for the use of her household.
There is an honest man, a brewer, at Burton, whom Paulett will employ, who will provide that
letters be sent to and fro.  Gifford and Langston, who are both of these parts, know him well."
Cis started at the name.  "Do you trust Langston then?" she asked.

"Wholly!  Why, he is the keenest and ablest of all.  Have you not seen him and had speech with
him in many strange shapes?  He can change his voice, and whine like any beggar wife."

"Yea," said Cis, "but the Queen and Sir Andrew doubted a little if he meant not threats last
time we met."

"All put on--excellent dissembling to beguile the keepers.  He told me all," said Antony, "and
how he had to scare thee and change tone suddenly.  Why, he it is who laid this same egg, and
will receive it. There is a sworn band, as you know already, who will let her know our plans,
and be at her commands through that means.  Then, when we have done service approaching to
be worthy of her, then it may be that I shall have earned at least a look or sign."

"Alas! sir," said Cicely, "how can I give you false hopes?"  For her honest heart burnt to
tell the poor fellow that she would in case of his success be farther removed from him than ever.

"What would be false now shall be true then.  I will wring love from thee by my deeds for her
whom we both alike love, and then wilt thou be mine own, my true Bride!"

By this time other guests had arrived, and the dinner was ready. Babington was, in deference
to the Countess, allowed to sit next to his lady-love.  She found he had been at Sheffield,
and had visited Bridgefield, vainly endeavouring to obtain sanction to his addresses from her
adopted parents.  He saw how her eyes brightened and heard how her voice quivered with eagerness
to hear of what still seemed home to her, and he was pleased to feel himself gratifying her
by telling her how Mrs. Talbot looked, and how Brown Dumpling had been turned out in the Park,
and Mr. Talbot had taken a new horse, which Ned had insisted on calling "Fulvius," from its
colour, for Ned was such a scholar that he was to be sent to study at Cambridge.  Then he would
have wandered off to little Lady Arbell's being put under Master Sniggius's tuition, but Cicely
would bring him back to Bridgefield, and to Ned's brothers.

No, the boasted expedition to Spain had not begun yet.  Sir Francis Drake was lingering about
Plymouth, digging a ditch, it was said, to bring water from Dartmoor.  He would never get license
to attack King Philip on his own shores.  The Queen knew better than to give it. Humfrey and
Diccon would get no better sport than robbing a ship or two on the way to the Netherlands.
Antony, for his part, could not see that piracy on the high seas was fit work for a gentleman.

"A gentleman loves to serve his queen and country in all places," said Cicely.

"Ah!" said Antony, with a long breath, as though making a discovery, "sits the wind in that
quarter?"

"Antony," exclaimed she, in her eagerness calling him by the familiar name of childhood, "you
are in error.  I declare most solemnly that it is quite another matter that stands in your way."

"And you will not tell me wherefore you are thus cruel?"

"I cannot, sir.  You will understand in time that what you call cruelty is true kindness."

This was the gist of the interview.  All the rest only repeated it in one form or another;
and when Cis returned, it was with a saddened heart, for she could not but perceive that Antony
was well-nigh crazed, not so much with love of her, as with the contemplation of the wrongs
of the Church and the Queen, whom he regarded with equally passionate devotion, and with burning
zeal and indignation to avenge their sufferings, and restore them to their pristine glory.
He did, indeed, love her, as he professed to have done from infancy, but as if she were to
be his own personal portion of the reward.  Indeed there was magnanimity enough in the youth
almost to lose the individual hope in the dazzle of the great victory for which he was willing
to devote his own life and happiness in the true spirit of a crusader.  Cicely did not fully
or consciously realise all this, but she had such a glimpse of it as to give her a guilty feeling
in concealing from him the whole truth, which would have shown how fallacious were the hopes
that her mother did not scruple, for her own purposes, to encourage.  Poor Cicely! she had
not had royal training enough to look on all subjects as simply pawns on the monarch's chess-board;
and she was so evidently unhappy over Babington's courtship, and so little disposed to enjoy
her first feminine triumph, that the Queen declared that Nature had designed her for the convent
she had so narrowly missed; and, valuable as was the intelligence she had brought, she was
never trusted with the contents of the correspondence.  On the removal of Mary to Chartley
the barrel with the false bottom came into use, but the secretaries Nau and Curll alone knew
in full what was there conveyed.  Little more was said to Cicely of Babington.

However, it was a relief when, before the end of this summer, Cicely heard of his marriage
to a young lady selected by the Earl.  She hoped it would make him forget his dangerous inclination
to herself; but yet there was a little lurking vanity which believed that it had been rather
a marriage for property's than for love's sake.

CHAPTER XXIV.

A LIONESS AT BAY.

It was in the middle of the summer of 1586 that Humfrey and his young brother Richard, in broad
grass hats and long feathers, found themselves again in London, Diccon looking considerably
taller and leaner than when he went away.  For when, after many months' delay, the naval expedition
had taken place, he had been laid low with fever during the attack on Florida by Sir Francis
Drake's little fleet; and the return to England had been only just in time to save his life.
Though Humfrey had set forth merely as a lieutenant, he had returned in command of a vessel,
and stood in high repute for good discipline, readiness of resource, and personal exploits.
His ship had, however, suffered so severely as to be scarcely seaworthy when the fleet arrived
in Plymouth harbour; and Sir Francis, finding it necessary to put her into dock and dismiss
her crew, had chosen the young Captain Talbot to ride to London with his despatches to her Majesty.

The commission might well delight the brothers, who were burning to hear of home, and to know
how it fared with Cicely, having been absolutely without intelligence ever since they had sailed
from Plymouth in January, since which they had plundered the Spaniard both at home and in the
West Indies, but had had no letters.

They rode post into London, taking their last change of horses at Kensington, on a fine June
evening, when the sun was mounting high upon the steeple of St. Paul's, and speeding through
the fields in hopes of being able to reach the Strand in time for supper at Lord Shrewsbury's
mansion, which, even in the absence of my Lord, was always a harbour for all of the name of
Talbot.  Nor, indeed, was it safe to be out after dark, for the neighbourhood of the city was
full of roisterers of all sorts, if not of highwaymen and cutpurses, who might come in numbers
too large even for the two young gentlemen and the two servants, who remained out of the four
volunteers from Bridgefield.

They were just passing Westminster where the Abbey, Hall, and St. Stephen's Chapel, and their
precincts, stood up in their venerable but unstained beauty among the fields and fine trees,
and some of the Westminster boys, flat-capped, gowned, and yellow-stockinged, ran out with
the cry that always flattered Diccon, not to say Humfrey, though he tried to be superior to
it, "Mariners! mariners from the Western Main!  Hurrah for gallant Drake!  Down with the Don!"
For the tokens of the sea, in the form of clothes and weapons, were well known and highly esteemed.

Two or three gentlemen who were walking along the road turned and looked up, and the young
sailors recognised in a moment a home face. There was an exclamation on either side of "Antony
Babington!" and "Humfrey Talbot!" and a ready clasp of the hand in right of old companionship.

"Welcome home!" exclaimed Antony.  "Is all well with you?"

"Royally well," returned Humfrey.  "Know'st thou aught of our father and mother?"

"All was well with them when last I heard," said Antony.

"And Cis--my sister I mean?" said Diccon, putting, in his unconsciousness, the very question
Humfrey was burning to ask.

"She is still with the Queen of Scots, at Chartley," replied Babington.

"Chartley, where is that?  It is a new place for her captivity."

"'Tis a house of my Lord of Essex, not far from Lichfield," returned Antony.  "They sent her
thither this spring, after they had well-nigh slain her with the damp and wretched lodgings
they provided at Tutbury."

"Who?  Not our Cis?" asked Diccon.

"Nay," said Antony, "it hurt not her vigorous youth--but I meant the long-suffering princess."

"Hath Sir Ralf Sadler still the charge of her?" inquired Humfrey.

"No, indeed.  He was too gentle a jailer for the Council.  They have given her Sir Amias Paulett,
a mere Puritan and Leicestrian, who is as hard as the nether millstone, and well-nigh as dull,"
said Babington, with a little significant chuckle, which perhaps alarmed one of his companions,
a small slight man with a slight halt, clad in black like a lawyer.  "Mr. Babington," he said,
"pardon me for interrupting you, but we shall make Mr. Gage tarry supper for us."

"Nay, Mr. Langston," said Babington, who was in high spirits, "these are kinsmen of your own,
sons of Mr. Richard Talbot of Bridgefield, to whom you have often told me you were akin."

Mr. Langston was thus compelled to come forward, shake hands with the young travellers, welcome
them home, and desire to be commended to their worthy parents; and Babington, in the exuberance
of his welcome, named his other two companions--Mr. Tichborne, a fine, handsome, graceful,
and somewhat melancholy young man; Captain Fortescue, a bearded moustached bravo, in the height
of the fashion, a long plume in his Spanish hat, and his short gray cloak glittering with silver
lace. Humfrey returned their salute, but was as glad as they evidently were when they got Babington
away with them, and left the brothers to pursue their way, after inviting them to come and
see him at his lodgings as early as possible.

"It is before supper," said Diccon, sagely, "or I should say Master Antony had been acquainted
with some good canary."

"More likely he is uplifted with some fancy of his own.  It may be only with the meeting of
me after our encounter," said Humfrey.  "He is a brave fellow and kindly, but never did craft
so want ballast as does that pate of his!"

"Humfrey," said his brother, riding nearer to him, "did he not call that fellow in black, Langston?"

"Ay, Cuthbert Langston.  I have heard of him.  No good comrade for his weak brain."

"Humfrey, it is so, though father would not credit me.  I knew his halt and his eye--just like
the venomous little snake that was the death, of poor Foster.  He is the same with the witch
woman Tibbott, ay, and with her with the beads and bracelets, who beset Cis and me at Buxton."

Young Diccon had proved himself on the voyage to have an unerring eye for recognition, and
his brother gave a low whistle.  "I fear me then Master Antony may be running himself into
trouble."

"See, they turn in mounting the steps to the upper fence of yonder house with the deep carved
balcony.  Another has joined them!  I like not his looks.  He is like one of those hardened
cavaliers from the Netherlands."

"Ay! who seem to have left pity and conscience behind them there," said Humfrey, looking anxiously
up at the fine old gabled house with its projecting timbered front, and doubting inwardly whether
it would be wise to act on his old playfellow's invitation, yet with an almost sick longing
to know on what terms the youth stood with Cicely.

In another quarter of an hour they were at the gateway of Shrewsbury House, where the porter
proved to be one of the Sheffield retainers, and admitted them joyfully.  My Lord Earl was
in Yorkshire, he said, but my Lord and Lady Talbot were at home, and would be fain to see them,
and there too was Master William Cavendish.

They were handed on into the courtyard, where servants ran to take their horses, and as the
news ran that Master Richard's sons had arrived from the Indies, Will Cavendish came running
down the hall steps to embrace them in his glee, while Lord Talbot came to the door of the
hall to welcome them.  These great London houses, which had not quite lost their names of hostels
or inns, did really serve as free lodgings to all members of the family who might visit town,
and above all such travellers as these, bringing news of grand national achievements.

Very soon after Gilbert's accession to the heirship, quarrels had begun between his wife and
her mother the Countess.

Lord Talbot had much of his father's stately grace, and his wife was a finished lady.  They
heartily welcomed the two lads who had grown from boys to men.  My lady smilingly excused the
riding-gear, and as soon as the dust of travel had been removed they were seated at the board,
and called on to tell of the gallant deeds in which they had taken part, whilst they heard
in exchange of Lord Leicester's doings in the Netherlands, and the splendid exploits of the
Stanleys at Zutphen.

Lord Talbot promised to take Humfrey to Richmond the next day, to be presented to her Majesty,
so soon as he should be equipped, so as not to lose his character of mariner, but still not
to affront her sensibilities by aught of uncourtly or unstudied in his apparel.

They confirmed what Babington had said of the Queen of Scots' changes of residence and of keepers.
As to Cicely, they had been lately so little at Sheffield that they had almost forgotten her,
but they thought that if she were still at Chartley, there could be no objection to her brothers
having an interview with her on their way home, if they chose to go out of their road for it.

Humfrey mentioned his meeting with Babington in Westminster, and Lord Talbot made some inquiries
as to his companions, adding that there were strange stories and suspicions afloat, and that
he feared that the young man was disaffected and was consorting with Popish recusants. Diccon's
tongue was on the alert with his observation, but at a sign from his brother, who did not wish
to get Babington into trouble, he was silent.  Cavendish, however, laughed and said he was
for ever in Mr. Secretary's house, and even had a room there.

Very early the next morning the body servant of his Lordship was in attendance with a barber
and the fashionable tailor of the Court, and in good time Humfrey and Diccon were arrayed in
such garments as were judged to suit the Queen's taste, and to become the character of young
mariners from the West.  Humfrey had a dainty jewel of shell-work from the spoils of Carthagena,
entrusted to him by Drake to present to the Queen as a foretaste of what was to come.  Lady
Talbot greatly admired its novelty and beauty, and thought the Queen would be enchanted with
it, giving him a pretty little perfumed box to present it in.

Lord Talbot, well pleased to introduce his spirited young cousins, took them in his boat to
Richmond, which they reached just as the evening coolness came on.  They were told that her
Majesty was walking in the Park, and thither, so soon as the ruffs had been adjusted and the
fresh Spanish gloves drawn on, they resorted.

The Queen walked freely there without guards--without even swords being worn by the gentlemen
in attendance--loving as she did to display her confidence in her people.  No precautions were
taken, but they were allowed to gather together on the greensward to watch her, as among the
beautiful shady trees she paced along.

The eyes of the two youths were eagerly directed towards her, as they followed Lord Talbot.
Was she not indeed the cynosure of all the realm?  Did she not hold the heart of every loyal
Englishman by an invisible rein?  Was not her favour their dream and their reward? She was
a little in advance of her suite.  Her hair, of that light sandy tint which is slow to whiten,
was built up in curls under a rich stiff coif, covered with silver lace, and lifted high at
the temples.  From this a light gauze veil hung round her shoulders and over her splendid standing
ruff, which stood up like the erected neck ornaments of some birds, opening in front, and showing
the lesser ruff or frill encircling her throat, and terminating a lace tucker within her low-cut
boddice.  Rich necklaces, the jewel of the Garter, and a whole constellation of brilliants,
decorated her bosom, and the boddice of her blue satin dress and its sleeves were laced with
seed pearls.  The waist, a very slender one, was encircled with a gold cord and heavy tassels,
the farthingale spread out its magnificent proportions, and a richly embroidered white satin
petticoat showed itself in front, but did not conceal the active, well-shaped feet. There was
something extraordinarily majestic in her whole bearing, especially the poise of her head,
which made the spectator never perceive how small her stature actually was.  Her face and complexion,
too, were of the cast on which time is slow to make an impression, being always pale and fair,
with keen and delicately-cut features; so that her admirers had quite as much reason to be
dazzled as when she was half her present age; nay, perhaps more, for the habit of command had
added to the regality which really was her principal beauty.  Sir Christopher Hatton, with
a handsome but very small face at the top of a very tall and portly frame, dressed in the extreme
of foppery, came behind her, and then a bevy of ladies and gentlemen.

As the Talbots approached, she was moving slowly on, unusually erect even for her, and her
face composed to severe majesty, like that of a judge, the tawny eyes with a strange gleam
in them fixed on some one in the throng on the grass near at hand.  Lord Talbot advanced with
a bow so low that he swept the ground with his plume, and while the two youths followed his
example, Diccon's quick eye noted that she glanced for one rapid second at their weapons, then
continued her steady gaze, never withdrawing it even to receive Lord Talbot's salutation as
he knelt before her, though she said, "We greet you well, my good lord. Are not we well guarded,
not having one man with a sword near me?"

"Here are three good swords, madam," returned he, "mine own, and those of my two young kinsmen,
whom I venture to present to your Majesty, as they bear greetings from your trusty servant,
Sir Francis Drake."

While he spoke there had been a by-play unperceived by him, or by the somewhat slow and tardy
Hatton.  A touch from Diccon had made Humfrey follow the direction of the Queen's eye, and
they saw it was fixed on a figure in a loose cloak strangely resembling that which they had
seen on the stair of the house Babington had entered.  They also saw a certain quailing and
cowering of the form, and a scowl on the shaggy red eyebrows, and Irish features, and Humfrey
at once edged himself so as to come between the fellow and the Queen, though he was ready to
expect a pistol shot in his back, but better thus, was his thought, than that it should strike
her,--and both laid their hands on their swords.

"How now!" said Hatton, "young men, you are over prompt.  Her Majesty needs no swords.  You
are out of rank.  Fall in and do your obeisance."

Something in the Queen's relaxed gaze told Humfrey that the peril was over, and that he might
kneel as Talbot named him, explaining his lineage as Elizabeth always wished to have done.
A sort of tremor passed over her, but she instantly recalled her attention.  "From Drake!"
she said, in her clear, somewhat shrill voice.  "So, young gentleman, you have been with the
pirate who outruns our orders, and fills our brother of Spain with malice such that he would
have our life by fair or foul means."

"That shall he never do while your Grace has English watch-dogs to guard you," returned Talbot.

"The Talbot is a trusty hound by water or by land," said Elizabeth, surveying the goodly proportion
of the elder brother.  "Whelps of a good litter, though yonder lad be somewhat long and lean.
Well, and how fares Sir Francis?  Let him make his will, for the Spaniards one day will have
his blood."

"I have letters and a token from him for your Grace," said Humfrey.

"Come then in," said the Queen.  "We will see it in the bower, and hear what thou wouldst say."

A bower, or small summer-house, stood at the end of the path, and here she took her way, seating
herself on a kind of rustic throne evidently intended for her, and there receiving from Humfrey
the letter and the gift, and asking some questions about the voyage; but she seemed preoccupied
and anxious, and did not show the enthusiastic approbation of her sailors' exploits which the
young men expected. After glancing over it, she bade them carry the letter to Mr. Secretary
Walsingham the next day; nor did she bid the party remain to supper; but as soon as half a
dozen of her gentlemen pensioners, who had been summoned by her orders, came up, she rose to
return to the palace.

CHAPTER XXV.

PAUL'S WALK.

Will Cavendish, who was in training for a statesman, and acted as a secretary to Sir Francis
Walsingham, advised that the letters should be carried to him at once that same evening, as
he would be in attendance on the Queen the next morning, and she would inquire for them.

The great man's house was not far off, and he walked thither with Humfrey, who told him what
he had seen, and asked whether it ought not at once to be reported to Walsingham.

Will whistled.  "They are driving it very close," he said.  "Humfrey; old comrade, thy brains
were always more of the order fit to face a tough breeze than to meddle with Court plots. 
Credit me, there is cause for what amazed thee.  The Queen and her Council know what they are
about.  Risk a little, and put an end to all the plottings for ever!  That's the word."

"Risk even the Queen's life?"

Will Cavendish looked sapient, and replied, "We of the Council Board know many a thing that
looks passing strange."

Mr. Secretary Walsingham's town house was, like Lord Talbot's, built round a court, across
which Cavendish led the way, with the assured air of one used to the service, and at home there.
The hall was thronged with people waiting, but Cavendish passed it, opened a little wicket,
and admitted his friends into a small anteroom, where he bade them remain, while he announced
them to Sir Francis.

He disappeared, shutting a door behind him, and after a moment's interval another person, with
a brown cloak round him, came hastily and stealthily across to the door.  He had let down the
cloak which muffled his chin, not expecting the presence of any one, and there was a moment's
start as he was conscious of the young men standing there.  He passed through the door instantly,
but not before Humfrey had had time to recognise in him no other than Cuthbert Langston, almost
the last person he would have looked for at Sir Francis Walsingham's.  Directly afterwards
Cavendish returned.

"Sir Francis could not see Captain Talbot, and prayed him to excuse him, and send in the letter."

"It can't be helped," said Cavendish, with his youthful airs of patronage.  "He would gladly
have spoken with you when I told him of you, but that Maude is just come on business that may
not tarry.  So you must e'en entrust your packet to me."

"Maude," repeated Humfrey, "Was that man's name Maude?  I should have dared be sworn that he
was my father's kinsman, Cuthbert Langston."

"Very like," said Will, "I would dare be sworn to nothing concerning him, but that he is one
of the greatest and most useful villains unhung."

So saying, Will Cavendish disappeared with the letters.  He probably had had a caution administered
to him, for when he returned he was evidently swelling with the consciousness of a State secret,
which he would not on any account betray, yet of the existence of which he desired to make
his old comrade aware.

Humfrey asked whether he had told Mr. Secretary of the man in Richmond Park.

"Never fear! he knows it," returned the budding statesman.  "Why, look you, a man like Sir
Francis has ten thousand means of intelligence that a simple mariner like you would never guess
at.  I thought it strange myself when I came first into business of State, but he hath eyes
and ears everywhere, like the Queen's gown in her picture.  Men of the Privy Council, you see,
must despise none, for the lewdest and meanest rogues oft prove those who can do the best service,
just as the bandy-legged cur will turn the spit, or unearth the fox when your gallant hound
can do nought but bay outside."

"Is this Maude, or Langston, such a cur?"

Cavendish gave his head a shake that expressed unutterable things, saying: "Your kinsman, said
you?  I trust not on the Talbot side of the house?"

"No.  On his mother's side.  I wondered the more to see him here as he got that halt in the
Rising of the North, and on the wrong side, and hath ever been reckoned a concealed Papist."

"Ay, ay.  Dost not see, mine honest Humfrey, that's the very point that fits him for our purpose?"

"You mean that he is a double traitor and informer."

"We do not use such hard words in the Privy Council Board as you do on deck, my good friend,"
said Cavendish.  "We have our secret intelligencers, you see, all in the Queen's service. 
Foul and dirty work, but you can't dig out a fox without soiling of fingers, and if there be
those that take kindly to the work, why, e'en let them do it."

"Then there is a plot?"

"Content you, Humfrey!  You'll hear enough of it anon.  A most foul, bloody, and horrible plot,
quite enough to hang every soul that has meddled in it, and yet safe to do no harm--like poor
Hal's blunderbuss, which would never go off, except when it burst, and blew him to pieces."

Will felt that he had said quite enough to impress Humfrey with a sense of his statecraft and
importance, and was not sorry for an interruption before he should have said anything dangerous.
It was from Frank Pierrepoint, who had been Diccon's schoolmate, and was enchanted to see him.
Humfrey was to stay one day longer in town in case Walsingham should wish to see him, and to
show Diccon something of London, which they had missed on their way to Plymouth.

St. Paul's Cathedral was even then the sight that all Englishmen were expected to have seen,
and the brothers took their way thither, accompanied by Frank Pierrepoint, who took their guidance
on his hands. Had the lads seen the place at the opening of the century they would have thought
it a piteous spectacle, for desecration and sacrilege had rioted there unchecked, the magnificent
peal of bells had been gambled away at a single throw of the dice, the library had been utterly
destroyed, the magnificent plate melted up, and what covetous fanaticism had spared had been
further ravaged by a terrible fire.  At this time Bishop Bancroft had done his utmost towards
reparation, and the old spire had been replaced by a wooden one; but there was much of ruin
and decay visible all around, where stood the famous octagon building called Paul's Cross,
where outdoor sermons were preached to listeners of all ranks.  This was of wood, and was kept
in moderately good repair.  Beyond, the nave of the Cathedral stretched its length, the greatest
in England.  Two sets of doors immediately opposite to one another on the north and south sides
had rendered it a thoroughfare in very early times, in spite of the endeavours of the clergy;
and at this time "Duke Humfrey's Walk," from the tomb of Duke Humfrey Stafford, as the twelve
grand Norman bays of this unrivalled nave were called, was the prime place for the humours
of London; and it may be feared that this, rather than the architecture, was the chief idea
in the minds of the youths, as a babel of strange sounds fell on their ears, "a still roar
like a humming of bees," as it was described by a contemporary, or, as Humfrey said, like the
sea in a great hollow cave.  A cluster of choir-boys were watching at the door to fall on any
one entering with spurs on, to levy their spur money, and one gentleman, whom they had thus
attacked, was endeavouring to save his purse by calling on the youngest boy to sing his gamut.

Near at hand was a pillar, round which stood a set of men, some rough, some knavish-looking,
with the blue coats, badges, short swords, and bucklers carried by serving-men.  They were
waiting to be hired, as if in a statute fair, and two or three loud-voiced bargains were going
on. In the middle aisle, gentlemen in all the glory of plumed hats, jewelled ears, ruffed necks,
Spanish cloaks, silken jerkins, velvet hose, and be-rosed shoes, were marching up and down,
some attitudinising to show their graces, some discussing the news of the day, for "Paul's
Walk" was the Bond Street, the Row, the Tattersall's, the Club of London.  Twelve scriveners
had their tables to act as letter-writers, and sometimes as legal advisers, and great amusement
might be had by those who chose to stand listening to the blundering directions of their clients.
In the side aisles, horse-dealing, merchants' exchanges, everything imaginable in the way of
traffic was going on.  Disreputable-looking men, who there were in sanctuary from their creditors,
there lurked around Humfrey Stafford's tomb; and young Pierrepoint's warning to guard their
purses was evidently not wasted, for a country fellow, who had just lost his, was loudly demanding
justice, and getting jeered at for his simplicity in expecting to recover it.

"Seest thou this?" said a voice close to Humfrey, and he found a hand on his arm, and Babington,
in the handsome equipment of one of the loungers, close to him.

"A sorry sight, that would grieve my good mother," returned Humfrey.

"My Mother, the Church, is grieved," responded Antony.  "This is what you have brought us to,
for your so-called religion," he added, ignorant or oblivious that these desecrations had been
quite as shocking before the Reformation.  "All will soon be changed, however," he added.

"Sir Thomas Gresham's New Exchange has cleared off some of the traffic, they say," returned
Humfrey.

"Pshaw!" said Antony; "I meant no such folly.  That were cleansing one stone while the whole
house is foul with shame.  No.  There shall be a swift vengeance on these desecrators.  The
purifier shall come again, and the glory and the beauty of the true Faith shall be here as
of old, when our fathers bowed before the Holy Rood, instead of tearing it down."  His eye
glanced with an enthusiasm which Humfrey thought somewhat wild, and he said, "Whist! these
are not things to be thus spoken of."

"All is safe," said Babington, drawing him within shelter of the chantry of Sir John Beauchamp's
tomb.  "Never heed Diccon--Pierrepoint can guide him," and Humfrey saw their figures, apparently
absorbed in listening to the bidding for a horse.  "I have things of moment to say to thee,
Humfrey Talbot.  We have been old comrades, and had that childish emulation which turns to
love in manhood in the face of perils."

Humfrey, recollecting how they had parted, held out his hand in recognition of the friendliness.

"I would fain save thee," said Babington.  "Heretic and rival as thou art, I cannot but love
thee, and I would have thee die, if die thou must, in honourable fight by sea or land, rather
than be overtaken by the doom that will fall on all who are persecuting our true and lawful
confessor and sovereign."

"Gramercy for thy good will, Tony," said Humfrey, looking anxiously to see whether his old
companion was in his right mind, yet remembering what had been said of plots.

"Thou deem'st me raving," said Antony, smiling at the perplexed countenance before him, "but
thou wilt see too late that I speak sooth, when the armies of the Church avenge the Name that
has been profaned among you!"

"The Spaniards, I suppose you mean," said Humfrey coolly.  "You must be far gone indeed to
hope to see those fiends turned loose on this peaceful land, but by God's blessing we have
kept them aloof before, I trust we may again."

"You talk of God's blessing.  Look at His House," said Babington.

"He is more like to bless honest men who fight for their Queen, their homes and hearths, than
traitors who would bring in slaughterers and butchers to work their will!"

"His glory is worked through judgment, and thus must it begin!" returned the young man.  "But
I would save thee, Humfrey," he added. "Go thou back to Plymouth, and be warned to hold aloof
from that prison where the keepers will meet their fit doom! and the captive will be set free.
Thou dost not believe," he added.  "See here," and drawing into the most sheltered part of
the chantry, he produced from his bosom a picture in the miniature style of the period, containing
six heads, among which his own was plainly to be recognised, and likewise a face which Humfrey
felt as if he should never forget, that which he had seen in Richmond Park, quailing beneath
the Queen's eye. Round the picture was the motto--

          "Hi mihi sunt comites quos ipsa pericula jungunt."

"I tell thee, Humfrey, thou wilt hear--if thou dost live to hear--of these six as having wrought
the greatest deed of our times!"

"May it only be a deed an honest man need not be ashamed of," said Humfrey, not at all convinced
of his friend's sanity.

"Ashamed of!" exclaimed Babington.  "It is blest, I tell thee, blest by holy men, blest by
the noble and suffering woman who will thus be delivered from her martyrdom."

"Babington, if thou talkest thus, it will be my duty to have thee put in ward," said Humfrey.

Antony laughed, and there was a triumphant ring very like insanity in his laughter.  Humfrey,
with a moment's idea that to hint that the conspiracy was known would blast it at once, if
it were real, said, "I see not Cuthbert Langston among your six.  Know you, I saw him only
yestereven going into Secretary Walsingham's privy chamber."

"Was he so?" answered Babington.  "Ha! ha! he holds them all in play till the great stroke
be struck!  Why! am not I myself in Walsingham's confidence?  He thinketh that he is about
to send me to France to watch the League.  Ha! ha!"

Here Humfrey's other companions turned back in search of him; Babington vanished in the crowd,
he hardly knew how, and he was left in perplexity and extreme difficulty as to what was his
duty as friend or as subject.  If Babington were sane, there must be a conspiracy for killing
the Queen, bringing in the Spaniards and liberating Mary, and he had expressly spoken of having
had the latter lady's sanction, while the sight of the fellow in Richmond Park gave a colour
of probability to the guess.  Yet the imprudence and absurdity of having portraits taken of
six assassins before the blow was struck seemed to contradict all the rest.  On the other hand,
Cavendish had spoken of having all the meshes of the web in the hands of the Council; and Langston
or Maude seemed to be trusted by both parties.

Humfrey decided to feel his way with Will Cavendish, and that evening spoke of having met Babington
and having serious doubts whether he were in his right mind.  Cavendish laughed, "Poor wretch!
I could pity him," he said, "though his plans be wicked enough to merit no compassion.  Nay,
never fear, Humfrey.  All were overthrown, did I speak openly.  Nay, to utter one word would
ruin me for ever.  'Tis quite sufficient to say that he and his fellows are only at large till
Mr. Secretary sees fit, that so his grip may be the more sure."

Humfrey saw he was to be treated with no confidence, and this made him the more free to act.
There were many recusant gentlemen in the neighbourhood of Chartley, and an assault and fight
there were not improbable, if, as Cavendish hinted, there was a purpose of letting the traitors
implicate themselves in the largest numbers and as fatally as possible.  On the other hand,
Babington's hot head might only fancy he had authority from the Queen for his projects.  If,
through Cicely, he could convey the information to Mary, it might save her from even appearing
to be cognisant of these wild schemes, whatever they might be, and to hint that they were known
was the surest way to prevent their taking effect.  Any way, Humfrey's heart was at Chartley,
and every warning he had received made him doubly anxious to be there in person, to be Cicely's
guardian in case of whatever danger might threaten her.  He blessed the fiction which still
represented him as her brother, and which must open a way for him to see her, but he resolved
not to take Diccon thither, and parted with him when the roads diverged towards Lichfield,
sending to his father a letter which Diccon was to deliver only into his own hand, with full
details of all he had seen and heard, and his motives for repairing to Chartley.

"Shall I see my little Cis?" thought he.  "And even if she play the princess to me, how will
she meet me?  She scorned me even when she was at home.  How will it be now when she has been
for well-nigh a year in this Queen's training?  Ah! she will be taught to despise me! Heigh
ho! At least she may be in need of a true heart and strong arm to guard her, and they shall
not fail her."

Will Cavendish, in the plenitude of the official importance with which he liked to dazzle his
old playfellow, had offered him a pass to facilitate his entrance, and he found reason to be
glad that he had accepted it, for there was a guard at the gate of Chartley Park, and he was
detained there while his letter was sent up for inspection to Sir Amias Paulett, who had for
the last few months acted as warder to the Queen.

However, a friendly message came back, inviting him to ride up.  The house--though called a
castle--had been rebuilt in hospitable domestic style, and looked much less like a prison than
Sheffield Lodge, but at every enclosure stood yeomen who challenged the passers-by, as though
this were a time of alarm.  However, at the hall-door itself stood Sir Amias Paulett, a thin,
narrow-browed, anxious-looking man, with the stiffest of ruffs, over which hung a scanty yellow
beard.

"Welcome, sir," he said, with a nervous anxious distressed manner. "Welcome, most welcome.
You will pardon any discourtesy, sir, but these are evil times.  The son, I think, of good
Master Richard Talbot of Bridgefield?  Ay, I would not for worlds have shown any lack of hospitality
to one of his family.  It is no want of respect, sir.  No; nor of my Lord's house; but these
are ill days, and with my charge, sir--if Heaven itself keep not the house--who knows what
may chance or what may be laid on me?"

"I understand," said Humfrey, smiling.  "I was bred close to Sheffield, and hardly knew what
'twas to live beyond watch and ward."

"Yea!" said Paulett, shaking his head.  "You come of a loyal house, sir; but even the good
Earl was less exercised than I am in the charge of this same lady.  But I am glad, glad to
see you, sir.  And you would see your sister, sir?  A modest young lady, and not indevout,
though I have sometimes seen her sleep at sermon.  It is well that the poor maiden should see
some one well affected, for she sitteth in the very gate of Babylon; and with respect, sir,
I marvel that a woman, so godly as Mistress Talbot of Bridgefield is reported to be, should
suffer it. However, I do my poor best, under Heaven, to hinder the faithful of the household
from being tainted.  I have removed Preaux, who is well known to be a Popish priest in disguise,
and thus he can spread no more of his errors.  Moreover, my chaplain, Master Blunden, with
other godly men, preaches three times a week against Romish errors, and all are enforced to
attend.  May their ears be opened to the truth!  I am about to attend this lady on a ride in
the Park, sir.  It might--if she be willing--be arranged that your sister, Mistress Talbot,
should spend the time in your company, and methinks the lady will thereto agree, for she is
ever ready to show a certain carnal and worldly complaisance to the wishes of her attendants,
and I have observed that she greatly affects the damsel, more, I fear, than may be for the
eternal welfare of the maiden's soul."

CHAPTER XXVI.

IN THE WEB.

It was a beautiful bright summer day, and Queen Mary and some of her train were preparing for
their ride.  The Queen was in high spirits, and that wonderful and changeful countenance of
hers was beaming with anticipation and hope, while her demeanour was altogether delightful
to every one who approached her.  She was adding some last instructions to Nau, who was writing
a letter for her to the French ambassador, and Cicely stood by her, holding her little dog
in a leash, and looking somewhat anxious and wistful.  There was more going on round the girl
than she was allowed to understand, and it made her anxious and uneasy. She knew that the correspondence
through the brewer was actively carried on, but she was not informed of what passed.  Only
she was aware that some crisis must be expected, for her mother was ceaselessly restless and
full of expectation.  She had put all her jewels and valuables into as small a compass as possible,
and talked more than ever of her plans for giving her daughter either to the Archduke Matthias,
or to some great noble, as if the English crown were already within her grasp. Anxious, curious,
and feeling injured by the want of confidence, yet not daring to complain, Cicely felt almost
fretful at her mother's buoyancy, but she had been taught a good many lessons in the past year,
and one of them was that she might indeed be caressed, but that she must show neither humour
nor will of her own, and the least presumption in inquiry or criticism was promptly quashed.

There was a knock at the door, and the usher announced that Sir Amias Paulett prayed to speak
with her Grace.  Her eye glanced round with the rapid emotion of one doubtful whether it were
for weal or woe, yet with undaunted spirit to meet either, and as she granted her permission,
Cis heard her whisper to Nau, "A rider came up even now! 'Tis the tidings! Are the Catholics
of Derby in the saddle?  Are the ships on the coast?"

In came the tall old man with a stiff reverence: "Madam, your Grace's horses attend you, and
I have tidings"--(Mary started forward)--"tidings for this young lady, Mistress Cicely Talbot.
Her brother is arrived from the Spanish Main, and requests permission to see and speak with her."

Radiance flashed out on Cicely's countenance as excitement faded on that of her mother: "Humfrey!
O madam! let me go to him!" she entreated, with a spring of joy and clasped hands.

Mary was far too kind-hearted to refuse, besides to have done so would have excited suspicion
at a perilous moment, and the arrangement Sir Amias proposed was quickly made.  Mary Seaton
was to attend the Queen in Cicely's stead, and she was allowed to hurry downstairs, and only
one warning was possible:

"Go then, poor child, take thine holiday, only bear in mind what and who thou art."

Yet the words had scarce died on her ears before she was oblivious of all save that it was
a familial home figure who stood at the bottom of the stairs, one of the faces she trusted
most in all the world which beamed out upon her, the hands which she knew would guard her through
everything were stretched out to her, the lips with veritable love in them kissed the cheeks
she did not withhold.  Sir Amias stood by and gave the kindest smile she had seen from him,
quite changing his pinched features, and he proposed to the two young people to go and walk
in the garden together, letting them out into the square walled garden, very formal, but very
bright and gay, and with a pleached alley to shelter them from the sun.

"Good old gentleman!" exclaimed Humfrey, holding the maiden's hand in his.  "It is a shame
to win such pleasure by feigning."

"As for that," sighed Cis, "I never know what is sooth here, and what am I save a living lie
myself?  O Humfrey! I am so weary of it all."

"Ah I would that I could bear thee home with me," he said, little prepared for this reception.

"Would that thou couldst!  O that I were indeed thy sister, or that the writing in my swaddling
bands had been washed out!--Nay," catching back her words, "I meant not that!  I would not
but belong to the dear Lady here.  She says I comfort her more than any of them, and oh! she
is--she is, there is no telling how sweet and how noble. It was only that the sight of thee
awoke the yearning to be at home with mother and with father.  Forget my folly, Humfrey."

"I cannot soon forget that Bridgefield seems to thee thy true home," he said, putting strong
restraint on himself to say and do no more, while his heart throbbed with a violence unawakened
by storm or Spaniard.

"Tell me of them all," she said.  "I have heard naught of them since we left Tutbury, where
at least we were in my Lord's house, and the dear old silver dog was on every sleeve.  Ah!
there he is, the trusty rogue."

And snatching up Humfrey's hat, which was fastened with a brooch of his crest in the fashion
of the day, she kissed the familiar token. Then, however, she blushed and drew herself up,
remembering the caution not to forget who she was, and with an assumption of more formal dignity,
she said, "And how fares it with the good Mrs. Talbot?"

"Well, when I last heard," said Humfrey, "but I have not been at home. I only know what Will
Cavendish and my Lord Talbot told me.  I sent Diccon on to Bridgefield, and came out of the
way to see you, lady," he concluded, with the same regard to actual circumstances that she
had shown.

"Oh, that was good!" she whispered, and they both seemed to feel a certain safety in avoiding
personal subjects.  Humfrey had the history of his voyage to narrate--to tell of little Diccon's
gallant doings, and to exalt Sir Francis Drake's skill and bravery, and at last to let it ooze
out, under Cis's eager questioning, that when his captain had died of fever on the Hispaniola
coast, and they had been overtaken by a tornado, Sir Francis had declared that it was Humfrey's
skill and steadfastness which had saved the ship and crew.

"And it was that tornado," he said, "which stemmed the fever, and saved little Diccon's life.
Oh! when he lay moaning below, then was the time to long for my mother."

Time sped on till the great hall clock made Cicely look up and say she feared that the riders
would soon return, and then Humfrey knew that he must make sure to speak the words of warning
he came to utter.  He told, in haste, of his message to Queen Elizabeth, and of his being sent
on to Secretary Walsingham, adding, "But I saw not the great man, for he was closeted--with
whom think you?   No other than Cuthbert Langston, whom Cavendish called by another name. 
It amazed me the more, because I had two days before met him in Westminster with Antony Babington,
who presented him to me by his own name."

"Saw you Antony Babington?" asked Cis, raising her eyes to his face, but looking uneasy.

"Twice, at Westminster, and again in Paul's Walk.  Had you seen him since you have been here?"

"Not here, but at Tutbury.  He came once, and I was invited to dine in the hall, because he
brought recommendations from the Countess." There was a pause, and then, as if she had begun
to take in the import of Humfrey's words, she added, "What said you?  That Mr. Langston was
going between him and Mr. Secretary?"

"Not exactly that," and Humfrey repeated with more detail what he had seen of Langston, forbearing
to ask any questions which Cicely might not be able to answer with honour; but they had been
too much together in childhood not to catch one another's meaning with half a hint, and she
said, "I see why you came here, Humfrey.  It was good and true and kind, befitting you.  I
will tell the Queen.  If Langston be in it, there is sure to be treachery.  But, indeed, I
know nothing or well-nigh nothing."

"I am glad of it," fervently exclaimed Humfrey.

"No; I only know that she has high hopes, and thinks that the term of her captivity is well-nigh
over.  But it is Madame de Courcelles whom she trusts, not me," said Cicely, a little hurt.

"So is it much better for thee to know as little as possible," said Humfrey, growing intimate
in tone again in spite of himself.  "She hath not changed thee much, Cis, only thou art more
grave and womanly, ay, and thou art taller, yea, and thinner, and paler, as I fear me thou
mayest well be."

"Ah, Humfrey, 'tis a poor joy to be a princess in prison!  And yet I shame me that I long to
be away.  Oh no, I would not.  Mistress Seaton and Mrs. Curll and the rest might be free, yet
they have borne this durance patiently all these years--and I think--I think she loves me a
little, and oh! she is hardly used.  Humfrey, what think'st thou that Mr. Langston meant? 
I wot now for certain that it was he who twice came to beset us, as Tibbott the huckster, and
with the beads and bracelets!  They all deem him a true friend to my Queen."

"So doth Babington," said Humfrey, curtly.

"Ah!" she said, with a little terrified sound of conviction, then added, "What thought you
of Master Babington?"

"That he is half-crazed," said Humfrey.

"We may say no more," said Cis, seeing a servant advancing from the house to tell her that
the riders were returning.  "Shall I see you again, Humfrey?"

"If Sir Amias should invite me to lie here to-night, and remain to-morrow, since it will be
Sunday."

"At least I shall see you in the morning, ere you depart," she said, as with unwilling yet
prompt steps she returned to the house, Humfrey feeling that she was indeed his little Cis,
yet that some change had come over her, not so much altering her, as developing the capabilities
he had always seen.

For herself, poor child, her feelings were in a strange turmoil, more than usually conscious
of that dual existence which had tormented her ever since she had been made aware of her true
birth.  Moreover, she had a sense of impending danger and evil, and, by force of contrast,
the frank, open-hearted manner of Humfrey made her the more sensible of being kept in the dark
as to serious matters, while outwardly made a pet and plaything by her mother, "just like Bijou,"
as she said to herself.

"So, little one," said Queen Mary, as she returned, "thou hast been revelling once more in
tidings of Sheffield!  How long will it take me to polish away the dulness of thy clownish
contact?"

"Humphrey does not come from home, madam, but from London.  Madam, let me tell you in your ear--"

Mary's eye instantly took the terrified alert expression which had come from many a shock and
alarm.  "What is it, child?" she asked, however, in a voice of affected merriment.  "I wager
it is that he has found his true Cis.  Nay, whisper it to me, if it touch thy silly little
heart so deeply."

Cicely knelt down, the Queen bending over her, while she murmured in her ear, "He saw Cuthbert
Langston, by a feigned name, admitted to Mr. Secretary Walsingham's privy chamber."

She felt the violent start this information caused, but the command of voice and countenance
was perfect.

"What of that, mignonne?" she said.  "What knoweth he of this Langston, as thou callest him?"

"He is my--no--his father's kinsman, madam, and is known to be but a plotter.  Oh, surely,
he is not in your secrets, madam, my mother, after that day at Tutbury?"

"Alack, my lassie, Gifford or Babington answered for him," said the Queen, "and he kens more
than I could desire.  But this Humfrey of thine!  How came he to blunder out such tidings to thee?"

"It was no blunder, madam.  He came here of purpose."

"Sure," exclaimed Mary, "it were too good to hope that he hath become well affected.  He--a
sailor of Drake's, a son of Master Richard! Hath Babington won him over; or is it for thy sake,
child?  For I bestowed no pains to cast smiles to him at Sheffield, even had he come in my way."

"I think, madam," said Cicely, "that he is too loyal-hearted to bear the sight of treachery
without a word of warning."

"Is he so?  Then he is the first of his nation who hath been of such a mind!  Nay, mignonne,
deny not thy conquest.  This is thy work."

"I deny not that--that I am beloved by Humfrey," said Cicely, "for I have known it all my life;
but that goes for naught in what he deems it right to do."

"There spoke so truly Mistress Susan's scholar that thou makest me laugh in spite of myself
and all the rest.  Hold him fast, my maiden; think what thou wilt of his service, and leave
me now, and send Melville and Curll to me."

Cicely went away full of that undefined discomfort experienced by generous young spirits when
their elders, more worldly-wise (or foolish), fail even to comprehend the purity or loftiness
of motive which they themselves thoroughly believe.  Yet, though she had infinitely more faith
in Humfrey's affection than she had in that of Babington, she had not by any means the same
dread of being used to bait the hook for him, partly because she knew his integrity too well
to expect to shake it, and partly because he was perfectly aware of her real birth, and could
not be gulled with such delusive hopes as poor Antony might once have been.

Humfrey meantime was made very welcome by Sir Amias Paulett, who insisted on his spending the
next day, Sunday, at Chartley, and made him understand that he was absolutely welcome, as having
a strong arm, stout heart, and clear brain used to command.  "Trusty aid do I need," said poor
Sir Amias, "if ever man lacked an arm of flesh.  The Council is putting more on me than ever
man had to bear, in an open place like this, hard to be defended, and they will not increase
the guard lest they should give the alarm, forsooth!"

"What is it that you apprehend?" inquired Humfrey.

"There's enough to apprehend when all the hot-headed Papists of Stafford and Derbyshire are
waiting the signal to fire the outhouses and carry off this lady under cover of the confusion.
Mr. Secretary swears they will not stir till the signal be given, and that it never will; but
such sort of fellows are like enough to mistake the sign, and the stress may come through their
dillydallying to make all sure as they say, and then, if there be any mischance, I shall be
the one to bear the blame.  Ay, if it be their own work!" he added, speaking to himself, "Murder
under trust!  That would serve as an answer to foreign princes, and my head would have to pay
for it, however welcome it might be!  So, good Mr. Talbot, supposing any alarm should arise,
keep you close to the person of this lady, for there be those who would make the fray a colour
for taking her life, under pretext of hindering her from being carried off."

It was no wonder that a warder in such circumstances looked harassed and perplexed, and showed
himself glad of being joined by any ally whom he could trust.  In truth, harsh and narrow as
he was, Paulett was too good and religious a man for the task that had been thrust on him,
where loyal obedience, sense of expediency, and even religious fanaticism, were all in opposition
to the primary principles of truth, mercy, and honour.  He was, besides, in constant anxiety,
living as he did between plot and counterplot, and with the certainty that emissaries of the
Council surrounded him who would have no scruple in taking Mary's life, and leaving him to
bear the blame, when Elizabeth would have to explain the deed to the other sovereigns of Europe.
He disclosed almost all this to Humfrey, whose frank, trustworthy expression seemed to move
him to unusual confidence.

At supper-time another person appeared, whom Humfrey thought he had once seen at Sheffield--a
thin, yellow-haired and bearded man, much marked with smallpox, in the black dress of a lawyer,
who sat above the household servants, though below the salt.  Paulett once drank to him with
a certain air of patronage, calling him Master Phillipps, a name that came as a revelation
to Humfrey.  Phillipps was the decipherer who had, he knew, been employed to interpret Queen
Mary's letters after the Norfolk plot.  Were there, then, fresh letters of that unfortunate
lady in his hands, or were any to be searched for and captured?

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE CASTLE WELL.

  "What vantage or what thing
  Gett'st thou thus for to sting,
    Thou false and flatt'ring liar?
  Thy tongue doth hurt, it's seen
  No less than arrows keen
    Or hot consuming fire."

So sang the congregation in the chapel at Chartley, in the strains of Sternhold and Hopkins,
while Humfrey Talbot could not forbear from a misgiving whether these falsehoods were entirely
on the side to which they were thus liberally attributed.  Opposite to him stood Cicely, in
her dainty Sunday farthingale of white, embroidered with violet buds, and a green and violet
boddice to match, holding herself with that unconscious royal bearing which had always distinguished
her, but with an expression of care and anxiety drawing her dark brows nearer together as she
bent over her book.

She knew that her mother had left her bed with the earliest peep of summer dawn, and had met
the two secretaries in her cabinet.  There they were busy for hours, and she had only returned
to her bed just as the household began to bestir itself.

"My child," she said to Cicely, "I am about to put my life into thy keeping and that of this
Talbot lad.  If what he saith of this Langston be sooth, I am again betrayed, fool that I was
to expect aught else. My life is spent in being betrayed.  The fellow hath been a go-between
in all that hath passed between Babington and me. If he hath uttered it to Walsingham, all
is over with our hopes, and the window in whose sunlight I have been basking is closed for
ever! But something may yet be saved.  Something?  What do I say?--The letters I hold here
would give colour for taking my life, ay, and Babington's and Curll's, and many more.  I trusted
to have burnt them, but in this summer time there is no coming by fire or candle without suspicion,
and if I tore them they might be pieced together, nay, and with addition.  They must be carried
forth and made away with beyond the ken of Paulett and his spies.  Now, this lad hath some
bowels of compassion and generous indignation.  Thou wilt see him again, alone and unsuspected,
ere he departs.  Thou must deal with him to bear this packet away, and when he is far out of
reach to drop it into the most glowing fire, or the deepest pool he can find. Tell him it may
concern thy life and liberty, and he will do it, but be not simple enough to say ought of Babington."

"He would be as like to do it for Babington as for any other," said Cis.

The Queen smiled and said, "Nineteen years old, and know thus little of men."

"I know Humfrey at least," said Cis.

"Then deal with him after thy best knowledge, to make him convey away this perilous matter
ere a search come upon us.  Do it we must, maiden, not for thy poor mother's sake alone, but
for that of many a faithful spirit outside, and above all of poor Curll.  Think of our Barbara!
Would that I could have sent her out of reach of our alarms and shocks, but Paulett is bent
on penning us together like silly birds in the net. Still proofs will be wanting if thou canst
get this youth to destroy this packet unseen.  Tell him that I know his parents' son too well
to offer him any meed save the prayers and blessings of a poor captive, or to fear that he
would yield it for the largest reward Elizabeth's coffers could yield."

"It shall be done, madam," said Cicely.  But there was a strong purpose in her mind that Humfrey
should not be implicated in the matter.

When after dinner Sir Amias Paulett made his daily visit of inspection to the Queen, she begged
that the young Talbots might be permitted another walk in the garden; and when he replied that
he did not approve of worldly pastime on the Sabbath, she pleaded the celebrated example of
John Knox finding Calvin playing at bowls on a Sunday afternoon at Geneva, and thus absolutely
prevailed on him to let them take a short walk together in brotherly love, while the rest of
the household was collected in the hall to be catechised by the chaplain.

So out they went together, but to Humfrey's surprise, Cicely walked on hardly speaking to him,
so that he fancied at first that she must have had a lecture on her demeanour to him.  She
took him along the broad terrace beside the bowling-green, through some yew-tree walks to a
stone wall, and a gate which proved to be locked.  She looked much disappointed, but scanning
the wall with her eye, said, "We have scaled walls together before now, and higher than this.
Humfrey, I cannot tell you why, but I must go over here."

The wall was overgrown with stout branches of ivy, and though the Sunday farthingale was not
very appropriate for climbing, Cicely's active feet and Humfrey's strong arm carried her safely
to where she could jump down on the other side, into a sort of wilderness where thorn and apple
trees grew among green mounds, heaps of stones and broken walls, the ruins of some old outbuilding
of the former castle. There was only a certain trembling eagerness about her, none of the mirthful
exultation that the recurrence of such an escapade with her old companion would naturally have
excited, and all she said was, "Stand here, Humfrey; an you love me, follow me not.  I will
return anon."

With stealthy stop she disappeared behind a mound covered by a thicket of brambles, but Humfrey
was much too anxious for her safety not to move quietly onwards.  He saw her kneeling by one
of those black yawning holes, often to be found in ruins, intent upon fastening a small packet
to a stone; he understood all in a moment, and drew back far enough to secure that no one molested
her.  There was something in this reticence of hers that touched him greatly; it showed so
entirely that she had learnt the lesson of loyalty which his father's influence had impressed,
and likewise one of self-dependence.  What was right for her to do for her mother and Queen
might not be right for him, as an Englishman, to aid and abet; and small as the deed seemed
in itself, her thus silently taking it on herself rather than perplex him with it, added a
certain esteem and respect to the affection he had always had for her.

She came back to him with bounding steps, as if with a lightened heart, and as he asked her
what this strange place was, she explained that here were said to be the ruins of the former
castle, and that beyond lay the ground where sometimes the party shot at the butts.  A little
dog of Mary Seaton's had been lost the last time of their archery, and it was feared that he
had fallen down the old well to which Cis now conducted Humfrey.  There was a sound--long,
hollow, reverberating, when Humfrey threw a stone down, and when Cecily asked him, in an awestruck
voice, whether he thought anything thrown there would ever be heard of more, he could well
say that he believed not.

She breathed freely, but they were out of bounds, and had to scramble back, which they did
undetected, and with much more mirth than the first time.  Cicely was young enough to be glad
to throw off her anxieties and forget them.  She did not want to talk over the plots she only
guessed at; which were not to her exciting mysteries, but gloomy terrors into which she feared
to look.  Nor was she free to say much to Humfrey of what she knew.  Indeed the rebound, and
the satisfaction of having fulfilled her commission, had raised Cicely's spirits, so that she
was altogether the bright childish companion Humfrey had known her before he went to sea, or
royalty had revealed itself to her; and Sir Amias Paulett would hardly have thought them solemn
and serious enough for an edifying Sunday talk could he have heard them laughing over Humfrey's
adventures on board ship, or her troubles in learning to dance in a high and disposed manner.
She came in so glowing and happy that the Queen smiled and sighed, and called her her little
milkmaid, commending her highly, however, for having disposed of the dangerous parcel unknown
(as she believed) to her companion.  "The fewer who have to keep counsel, the sickerer it is,"
she said.

Humfrey meantime joined the rest of the household, and comported himself at the evening sermon
with such exemplary discretion as entirely to win the heart of Sir Amias Paulett, who thought
him listening to Mr. Blunden's oft-divided headings, while he was in fact revolving on what
pretext he could remain to protect Cicely.  The Knight gave him that pretext, when he spoke
of departing early on Monday morning, offering him, or rather praying him to accept, the command
of the guards, whose former captain had been dismissed as untrustworthy.  Sir Amias undertook
that a special messenger should be sent to take a letter to Bridgefield, explaining Humfrey's
delay, and asking permission from his parents to undertake the charge, since it was at this
very crisis that he was especially in need of God-fearing men of full integrity.  Then moved
to confidence, the old gentleman disclosed that not only was he in fear of an attack on the
house from the Roman Catholic gentry in the neighbourhood, which was to take place as soon
as Parma's ships were seen on the coast, but that he dreaded his own servants being tampered
with by some whom he would not mention to take the life of the prisoner secretly.

"It hath been mooted to me," he said, lowering his voice to a whisper, "that to take such a
deed on me would be good service to the Queen and to religion, but I cast the thought from
me.  It can be nought but a deadly sin--accursed of God--and were I to consent, I should be
the first to be accused."

"It would be no better than the King of Spain himself," exclaimed Humfrey.

"Even so, young man, and right glad am I to find one who thinks with me.  For the other practices,
they are none of mine, and is it not written 'In the same pit which they laid privily is their
foot taken'?"

"Then there are other practices?"

"Ask me no questions, Mr. Talbot.  All will be known soon enough.  Be content that I will lay
nothing on you inconsistent with the honour of a Christian man, knowing that you will serve
the Queen faithfully."

Humfrey gave his word, resolving that he would warn Cicely to reckon henceforth on nothing
on his part that did not befit a man in charge.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

HUNTING DOWN THE DEER

Humfrey had been sworn in of the service of the Queen, and had been put in charge of the guard
mustered at Chartley for about ten days, during which he seldom saw Cicely, and wondered much
not to have heard from home: when a stag-hunt was arranged to take place at the neighbouring
park of Tickhill or Tixall, belonging to Sir Walter Ashton.

The chase always invigorated Queen Mary, and she came down in cheerful spirits, with Cicely
and Mary Seaton as her attendants, and with the two secretaries, Nau and Curll, heading the
other attendants.

"Now," she said to Cicely, "shall I see this swain, or this brother of thine, who hath done
us such good service, and I promise you there will be more in my greeting than will meet Sir
Amias's ear."

But to Cicely's disappointment Humfrey was not among the horsemen mustered at the door to attend
and guard the Queen.

"My little maid's eye is seeking for her brother," said Mary, as Sir Amias advanced to assist
her to her horse.

"He hath another charge which will keep him at home," replied Paulett, somewhat gruffly, and
they rode on.

It was a beautiful day in early August, the trees in full foliage, the fields seen here and
there through them assuming their amber harvest tints, the twin spires of Lichfield rising
in the distance, the park and forest ground through which the little hunting-party rode rich
with purple heather, illuminated here and there with a bright yellow spike or star, and the
rapid motion of her brisk palfrey animated the Queen. She began to hope that Humfrey had after
all brought a false alarm, and that either he had been mistaken or that Langston was deceiving
the Council itself, and though Sir Amias Paulett's close proximity held her silent, those who
knew her best saw that her indomitably buoyant spirits were rising, and she hummed to herself
the refrain of a gay French hunting-song, with the more zest perhaps that her warder held himself
trebly upright, stiff and solemn under it, as one who thought such lively times equally unbefitting
a lady, a queen, and a captive. So at least Cis imagined as she watched them, little guessing
that there might be deeper reasons of compassion and something like compunction to add to the
gravity of the old knight's face.

As they came in sight of the gate of Tickhill Park, they became aware of a company whose steel
caps and shouldered arquebuses did not look like those of huntsmen.  Mary bounded in her saddle,
she looked round at her little suite with a glance of exultation in her eye, which said as
plainly as words, "My brave friends, the hour has come!" and she quickened her steed, expecting,
no doubt, that she might have to outride Sir Amias in order to join them.

One gentleman came forward from the rest.  He held a parchment in his hand, and as soon as
he was alongside of the Queen thus read:--

"Mary, late Queen of Scots and Queen Dowager of France, I, Thomas Gorges, attaint thee of high
treason and of compassing the life of our most Gracious Majesty Queen Elizabeth, in company
with Antony Babington, John Ballard, Chidiock Tichborne, Robert Barnwell, and others."

Mary held up her hands, and raised her eyes to Heaven, and a protest was on her lips, but Gorges
cut it short with, "It skills not denying it, madam.  The proofs are in our hands.  I have
orders to conduct you to Tickhill, while seals are put on your effects."

"That there may be proofs of your own making," said the Queen, with dignity.  "I have experience
of that mode of judgment.  So, Sir Amias Paulett, the chase you lured me to was truly of a
poor hunted doe whom you think you have run down at last.  A worthy chase indeed, and of long
continuance!"

"I do but obey my orders, madam," said Paulett, gloomily.

"Oh ay, and so does the sleuth-hound," said Mary.

"Your Grace must be pleased to ride on with me," said Mr. Gorges, laying his hand on her bridle.

"What are you doing with those gentlemen?" cried Mary, sharply reining in her horse, as she
saw Nau and Curll surrounded by the armed men.

"They will be dealt with after her Majesty's pleasure," returned Paulett.

Mary dropped her rein and threw up her hands with a gesture of despair, but as Gorges was leading
her away, she turned on her saddle, and raised her voice to call out, "Farewell, my true and
faithful servants! Betide what may, your mistress will remember you in her prayers. Curll,
we will take care of your wife."

And she waved her hand to them as they were made, with a strong guard, to ride off in the direction
of Lichfield.  All the way to Tickhill, whither she was conducted with Gorges and Paulett on
either side of her horse, Cis could hear her pleading for consideration for poor Barbara Curll,
for whose sake she forgot her own dignity and became a suppliant.

Sir Walter Ashton, a dull heavy-looking country gentleman of burly form and ruddy countenance,
stood at his door, and somewhat clownishly offered his services to hand her from her horse.

She submitted passively till she had reached the upper chamber which had been prepared for
her, and there, turning on the three gentlemen, demanded the meaning of this treatment.

"You will soon know, madam," said Paulett.  "I am sorry that thus it should be."

"Thus!" repeated Mary, scornfully.  "What means this?"

"It means, madam," said Gorges, a ruder man of less feeling even than Paulett, "that your practices
with recusants and seminary priests have been detected.  The traitors are in the Counter, and
will shortly be brought to judgment for the evil purposes which have been frustrated by the
mercy of Heaven."

"It is well if treason against my good sister's person have been detected and frustrated,"
said Mary; "but how doth that concern me?"

"That, madam, the papers at Chartley will show," returned Gorges. "Meantime you will remain
here, till her Majesty's pleasure be known."

"Where, then, are my women and my servants?" inquired the Queen.

"Your Grace will be attended by the servants of Sir Walter Ashton."

"Gentlemen, this is not seemly," said Mary, the colour coming hotly into her face.  "I know
it is not the will of my cousin, the Queen of England, that I should remain here without any
woman to attend me, nor any change of garments.  You are exceeding your commission, and she
shall hear of it."

Sir Amias Paulett here laid his hand on Gorges' arm, and after exchanging a few words with
him, said--

"Madam, this young lady, Mistress Talbot, being simple, and of a loyal house, may remain with
you for the present.  For the rest, seals are put on all your effects at Chartley, and nothing
can be removed from thence, but what is needful will be supplied by my Lady Ashton.  I bid
your Grace farewell, craving your pardon for what may have been hasty in this."

Mary stood in the centre of the floor, full of her own peculiar injured dignity, not answering,
but making a low ironical reverence. Mary Seaton fell on her knees, clung to the Queen's dress,
and declared that while she lived, she would not leave her mistress.

"Endure this also, ma mie," said the Queen, in French.  "Give them no excuse for using violence.
They would not scruple--" and as a demonstration to hinder French-speaking was made by the
gentlemen, "Fear not for me, I shall not be alone."

"I understand your Grace and obey," said Mary Seaton, rising, with a certain bitterness in
her tone, which made Mary say-- "Ah! why must jealousy mar the fondest affection?  Remember,
it is their choice, not mine, my Seaton, friend of my youth.  Bear my loving greetings to all.
And take care of poor Barbara!"

"Madam, there must be no private messages," said Paulett.

"I send no messages save what you yourself may hear, sir," replied the Queen.  "My greetings
to my faithful servants, and my entreaty that all care and tenderness may be shown to Mrs. Curll."

"I will bear them, madam," said the knight, "and so I commend you to God's keeping, praying
that He may send you repentance.  Believe me, madam, I am sorry that this has been put upon me."

To this Mary only replied by a gesture of dismissal.  The three gentlemen drew back, a key
grated in the lock, and the mother and daughter were left alone.

To Cicely it was a terrible hopeless sound, and even to her mother it was a lower depth of
wretchedness.  She had been practically a captive for nearly twenty years.  She had been insulted,
watched, guarded, coerced, but never in this manner locked up before.

She clasped her hands together, dropped on her knees at the table that stood by her, and hid
her face.  So she continued till she was roused by the sound of Cicely's sobs.  Frightened
and oppressed, and new to all terror and sorrow, the girl had followed her example in kneeling,
but the very attempt to pray brought on a fit of weeping, and the endeavour to restrain what
might disturb the Queen only rendered the sobs more choking and strangling, till at last Mary
heard, and coming towards her, sat down on the floor, gathered her into her arms, and kissing
her forehead, said, "Poor bairnie, and did she weep for her mother?  Have the sorrows of her
house come on her?"

"O mother, I could not help it!  I meant to have comforted you," said Cicely, between her sobs.

"And so thou dost, my child.  Unwittingly they have left me that which was most precious to me."

There was consolation in the fondness of the loving embrace, at least to such sorrows as those
of the maiden; and Queen Mary had an inalienable power of charming the will and affections
of those in contact with her, so that insensibly there came into Cicely's heart a sense that,
so far from weeping, she should rejoice at being the one creature left to console her mother.

"And," she said by and by, looking up with a smile, "they must go to the bottom of the old
well to find anything."

"Hush, lassie.  Never speak above thy breath in a prison till thou know'st whether walls have
ears.  And, apropos, let us examine what sort of a prison they have given us this time."

So saying Mary rose, and leaning on her daughter's arm, proceeded to explore her new abode.
Like her apartment at the Lodge, it was at the top of the house, a fashion not uncommon when
it was desirable to make the lower regions defensible; but, whereas she had always hitherto
been placed in the castles of the highest nobility, she was now in that of a country knight
of no great wealth or refinement, and, moreover, taken by surprise.

So the plenishing was of the simplest.  The walls were covered with tapestry so faded that
the pattern could hardly be detected.  The hearth yawned dark and dull, and by it stood one
chair with a moth-eaten cushion.  A heavy oaken table and two forms were in the middle of the
room, and there was the dreary, fusty smell of want of habitation.  The Queen, whose instincts
for fresh air were always a distress to her ladies, sprang to the mullioned window, but the
heavy lattice defied all her efforts.

"Let us see the rest of our dominions," she said, turning to a door, which led to a still more
gloomy bedroom, where the only articles of furniture were a great carved bed, with curtains
of some undefined dark colour, and an oaken chest.  The window was a mere slit, and even more
impracticable than that of the outer room.  However, this did not seem to horrify Mary so much
as it did her daughter.  "They cannot mean to keep us here long," she said; "perhaps only for
the day, while they make their search--their unsuccessful search--thanks to--we know whom,
little one."

"I hope so!  How could we sleep there?" said Cicely, looking with a shudder at the bed.

"Tush!  I have seen worse in Scotland, mignonne, ay and when I was welcomed as liege lady,
not as a captive.  I have slept in a box like a coffin with one side open, and I have likewise
slept on a plaidie on the braw purple blossoms of freshly pulled heather!  Nay, the very thought
makes this chamber doubly mouldy and stifling!  Let the old knight beware.  If he open not
his window I shall break it!  Soft. Here he comes."

Sir Walter Ashton appeared, louting low, looking half-dogged, half-sheepish, and escorting
two heavy-footed, blue-coated serving-men, who proceeded to lay the cloth, which at least had
the merit of being perfectly clean and white.  Two more brought in covered silver dishes, one
of which contained a Yorkshire pudding, the other a piece of roast-beef, apparently calculated
to satisfy five hungry men.  A flagon of sack, a tankard of ale, a dish of apples, and a large
loaf of bread, completed the meal; at which the Queen and Cicely, accustomed daily to a first
table of sixteen dishes and a second of nine, compounded by her Grace's own French cooks and
pantlers, looked with a certain amused dismay, as Sir Walter, standing by the table, produced
a dagger from a sheath at his belt, and took up with it first a mouthful of the pudding, then
cut off a corner of the beef, finished off some of the bread, and having swallowed these, as
well as a draught of each of the liquors, said, "Good and sound meats, not tampered with, as
I hereby testify.  You take us suddenly, madam; but I thank Heaven, none ever found us unprovided.
Will it please you to fall to?  Your woman can eat after you."

Mary's courtesy was unfailing, and though she felt all a Frenchwoman's disgust at the roast-beef
of old England, she said, "We are too close companions not to eat together, and I fear she
will be the best trencher comrade, for, sir, I am a woman sick and sorrowful, and have little
stomach for meat."

As Sir Walter carved a huge red piece from the ribs, she could not help shrinking back from
it, so that he said with some affront, "You need not be queasy, madam, it was cut from a home-fed
bullock, only killed three days since, and as prime a beast as any in Stafford."

"Ah! yea, sir.  It is not the fault of the beef, but of my feebleness. Mistress Talbot will
do it reason.  But I, methinks I could eat better were the windows opened."

But Sir Walter replied that these windows were not of the new-fangled sort, made to open, that
honest men might get rheums, and foolish maids prate therefrom.  So there was no hope in that
direction.  He really seemed to be less ungracious than utterly clownish, dull, and untaught,
and extremely shy and embarrassed with his prisoner.

Cicely poured out some wine, and persuaded her to dip some bread in, which, with an apple,
was all she could taste.  However, the fare, though less nicely served than by good Mrs. Susan,
was not so alien to Cicely, and she was of an age and constitution to be made hungry by anxiety
and trouble, so that--encouraged by the Queen whenever she would have desisted--she ended by
demolishing a reasonable amount.

Sir Walter stood all the time, looking on moodily and stolidly, with his cap in his hand. 
The Queen tried to talk to him, and make inquiries of him, but he had probably steeled himself
to her blandishments, for nothing but gruff monosyllables could be extracted from him, except
when he finally asked what she would be pleased to have for supper.

"Mine own cook and pantler have hitherto provided for me.  They would save your household the
charge, sir," said Mary, "and I would be at charges for them."

"Madam, I can bear the charge in the Queen's service.  Your black guard are under ward.  And
if not, no French jackanapes shall ever brew his messes in my kitchen!   Command honest English
fare, madam, and if it be within my compass, you shall have it.  No one shall be stinted in
Walter Ashton's house; but I'll not away with any of your outlandish kickshaws.  Come, what
say you to eggs and bacon, madam?"

"As you will, sir," replied Mary, listlessly.  And Sir Walter, opening the door, shouted to
his serving-man, who speedily removed the meal, he going last and making his clumsy reverence
at the door, which he locked behind him.

"So," said Mary, "I descend!  I have had the statesman, the earl, the courtly knight, the pedantic
Huguenot, for my warders.  Now am I come to the clown.  Soon will it be the dungeon and the
headsman."

"O dear madam mother, speak not thus," cried Cicely.  "Remember they can find nothing against you."

"They can make what they cannot find, my poor child.  If they thirst for my blood, it will
cost them little to forge a plea.  Ah, lassie! there have been times when nothing but my cousin
Elizabeth's conscience, or her pity, stood between me and doom.  If she be brought to think
that I have compassed her death, why then there is naught for it but to lay my head on the
same pillow as Norfolk and More and holy Fisher, and many another beside.  Well, be it so!
I shall die a martyr for the Holy Church, and thus may I atone by God's mercy for my many sins!
Yea, I offer myself a sacrifice," she said, folding her hands and looking upward with a light
on her face.  "O do Thou accept it, and let my sufferings purge away my many misdeeds, and
render it a pure and acceptable offering unto Thee.  Child, child," she added, turning to Cicely,
"would that thou wert of my faith, then couldst thou pray for me."

"O mother, mother, I can do that.  I do pray for thee."

And hand in hand with tears often rising, they knelt while Mary repeated in broken voice the
Miserere.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE SEARCH.

Humfrey had been much disappointed, when, instead of joining the hunt, Sir Amias Paulett bade
him undertake the instruction of half a dozen extremely awkward peasants, who had been called
in to increase the guard, but who did not know how to shoulder, load, or fire an arquebus,
had no command of their own limbs, and, if put to stand sentry, would quite innocently loll
in the nearest corner, and go to sleep.  However, he reflected that if he were resident in
the same house as Cicely he could not expect opportunities to be daily made for their meeting,
and he addressed himself with all his might to the endeavour to teach his awkward squad to
stand upright for five minutes together.  Sturdy fellows as they were, he had not been able
to hinder them from lopping over in all directions, when horses were heard approaching.  Every
man of them, regardless of discipline, lumbered off to stare, and Humfrey, after shouting at
them in vain, and wishing he had them all on board ship, gave up the endeavour to recall them,
and followed their example, repairing to the hall-door, when he found Sir Amias Paulett dismounting,
together with a clerkly-looking personage, attended by Will Cavendish.  Mary Seaton was being
assisted from her horse, evidently in great grief; and others of the personal attendants of
Mary were there, but neither herself, Cicely, nor the Secretaries.

Before he had time to ask questions, his old companion came up to him. "You here still, Humfrey?
Well.  You have come in for the outburst of the train you scented out when you were with us
in London, though I could not then speak explicitly."

"What mean you?  Where is Cicely?  Where is the Queen of Scots?" asked Humfrey anxiously.

Sir Amias Paulett heard him, and replied, "Your sister is safe, Master Talbot, and with the
Queen of Scots at Tixall Castle.  We permitted her attendance, as being young, simple, and
loyal; she is less like to serve for plots than her elders in that lady's service."

Sir Annas strode on, conducting with him his guest, whom Cavendish explained to be Mr. Wade,
sworn by her Majesty's Council to take possession of Queen Mary's effects, and there make search
for evidence of the conspiracy.  Cavendish followed, and Humfrey took leave to do the same.

The doors of the Queen's apartment were opened at the summons of Sir Amias Paulett, and Sir
Andrew Melville, Mistress Kennedy, Marie de Courcelles, and the rest, stood anxiously demanding
what was become of their Queen.  They were briefly and harshly told that her foul and abominable
plots and conspiracies against the life of the Queen, and the peace of the Kingdom, had been
brought to light, and that she was under secure ward.

Jean Kennedy demanded to be taken to her at once, but Paulett replied, "That must not be, madam.
We have strict commands to keep her secluded from all."

Marie de Courcelles screamed aloud and wrung her hands, crying, "If ye have slain her, only
tell us quickly!"  Sir Andrew Melville gravely protested against such a barbarous insult to
a Queen of Scotland and France, and was answered, "No queen, sir, but a State criminal, as
we shall presently show."

Here Barbara Curll pressed forward, asking wildly for her husband; and Wade replying, with
brutal brevity, that he was taken to London to be examined for his practices before the Council,
the poor lady, well knowing that examination often meant torture, fell back in a swoon.

"We shall do nothing with all these women crying and standing about," said Wade impatiently;
"have them all away, while we put seals on the effects."

"Nay, sirs," said Jean Kennedy.  "Suffer me first to send her Grace some changes of garments."

"I tell thee, woman," said Wade, "our orders are precise!  Not so much as a kerchief is to
be taken from these chambers till search hath been made.  We know what practices may lurk in
the smallest rag."

"It is barbarous!  It is atrocious!  The King of France shall hear of it," shrieked Marie de
Courcelles.

"The King of France has enough to do to take care of himself, my good lady," returned Wade,
with a sneer.

"Sir," said Jean Kennedy, with more dignity, turning to Sir Amias Paulett, "I cannot believe
that it can be by the orders of the Queen of England, herself a woman, that my mistress, her
cousin, should be deprived of all attendance, and even of a change of linen.  Such unseemly
commands can never have been issued from herself."

"She is not without attendance," replied the knight, "the little Talbot wench is with her,
and for the rest, Sir Walter and Lady Ashton have orders to supply her needs during her stay
among them. She is treated with all honour, and is lodged in the best chambers," he added,
consolingly.

"We must dally no longer," called out Wade.  "Have away all this throng into ward, Sir Amias.
We can do nothing with them here."

There was no help for it.  Sir Andrew Melville did indeed pause to enter his protest, but that,
of course, went for nothing with the Commissioners, and Humfrey was ordered to conduct them
to the upper gallery, there to await further orders.  It was a long passage, in the highly
pointed roof, with small chambers on either side which could be used when there was a press
of guests.  There was a steep stair, as the only access, and it could be easily guarded, so
Sir Amias directed Humfrey to post a couple of men at the foot, and to visit and relieve them
from time to time.

It was a sad procession that climbed up those narrow stairs, of those faithful followers who
were separated from their Queen for the first time.  The servants of lower rank were merely
watched in their kitchen, and not allowed to go beyond its courtyard, but were permitted to
cook for and wait on the others, and bring them such needful furniture as was required.

Humfrey was very sorry for them, having had some acquaintance with them all his life, and he
was dismayed to find himself, instead of watching over Cicely, separated from her and made
a jailer against his will. And when he returned to the Queen's apartments, he found Cavendish
holding a taper, while Paulett and Wade were vigorously affixing cords, fastened at each end
by huge red seals bearing the royal arms, to every receptacle, and rudely plucking back the
curtains that veiled the ivory crucifix.  Sir Amias's zeal would have "plucked down the idol,"
as he said, but Wade restrained him by reminding him that all injury or damage was forbidden.

Not till all was sealed, and a guard had been stationed at the doors, would the Commissioners
taste any dinner, and then their conversation was brief and guarded, so that Humfrey could
discover little.  He did, indeed, catch the name of Babington in connection with the "Counter
prison," and a glance of inquiry to Cavendish, with a nod in return, showed him that his suspicions
were correct, but he learnt little or nothing more till the two, together with Phillipps, drew
together in the deep window, with wine, apples, and pears on the ledge before them, for a private
discussion.  Humfrey went away to see that the sentries at the staircase were relieved, and
to secure that a sufficient meal for the unfortunate captives in the upper stories had been
allowed to pass.  Will Cavendish went with him.  He had known these ladies and gentlemen far
more intimately than Humfrey had done, and allowed that it was harsh measure that they suffered
for their fidelity to their native sovereign.

"No harm will come to them in the end," he said, "but what can we do? That very faithfulness
would lead them to traverse our purposes did we not shut them up closely out of reach of meddling,
and there is no other place where it can be done."

"And what are these same purposes?" asked Humfrey, as, having fulfilled his commission, the
two young men strolled out into the garden and threw themselves on the grass, close to a large
mulberry-tree, whose luscious fruit dropped round, and hung within easy reach.

"To trace out all the coils of as villainous and bloodthirsty a plot as ever was hatched in
a traitor's brain," said Will; "but they little knew that we overlooked their designs the whole
time.  Thou wast mystified in London, honest Humfrey, I saw it plainly; but I might not then
speak out," he added, with all his official self-importance.

"And poor Tony hath brought himself within compass of the law?"

"Verily you may say so.  But Tony Babington always was a fool, and a wrong-headed fool, who
was sure to ruin himself sooner or later.  You remember the decoy for the wild-fowl?  Well,
never was silly duck or goose so ready to swim into the nets as was he!"

"He always loved this Queen, yea, and the old faith."

"He sucked in the poison with his mother's milk, you may say.  Mrs. Babington was naught but
a concealed Papist, and, coming from her, it cost nothing to this Queen to beguile him when
he was a mere lad, and make him do her errands, as you know full well.  Then what must my Lord
Earl do but send him to that bitter Puritan at Cambridge, who turned him all the more that
way, out of very contradiction.  My Lord thought him cured of his Popish inclinations, and
never guessed they had only led him among those who taught him to dissemble."

"And that not over well," said Humfrey.  "My father never trusted him."

"And would not give him your sister.  Yea, but the counterfeit was good enough for my Lord
who sees nothing but what is before his nose, and for my mother who sees nothing but what she
will see.  Well, he had fallen in with those who deem this same Mary our only lawful Queen,
and would fain set her on the throne to bring back fire and faggot by the Spanish sword among us."

"I deemed him well-nigh demented with brooding over her troubles and those of his church."

"Demented in verity.  His folly was surpassing.  He put his faith in a recusant priest--one
John Ballard--who goes ruffling about as Captain Fortescue in velvet hose and a silver-laced
cloak."

"Ha!"

"Hast seen him?"

"Ay, in company with Babington, on the day I came to London, passing through Westminster."

"Very like.  Their chief place of meeting was at a house at Westminster belonging to a fellow
named Gage.  We took some of them there.  Well, this Ballard teaches poor Antony, by way of
gospel truth, that 'tis the mere duty of a good Catholic to slay the enemies of the church,
and that he who kills our gracious Queen, whom God defend, will do the holiest deed; just as
they gulled the fellow, who murdered the Prince of Orange, and then died in torments, deeming
himself a holy martyr."

"But it was not Babington whom I saw at Richmond."

"Hold, I am coming to that.  Let me tell you the Queen bore it in mind, and asked after you.
Well, Babington has a number of friends, as hot-brained and fanatical as himself, and when
once he had swallowed the notion of privily murdering the Queen, he got so enamoured of it,
that he swore in five more to aid him in the enterprise, and then what must they do but have
all their portraits taken in one picture with a Latin motto around them.  What!  Thou hast
seen it?"

"He showed it to me in Paul's Walk, and said I should hear of them, and I thought one of them
marvellously like the fellow I had seen in Richmond Park."

"So thought her Majesty.  But more of that anon.  On the self-same day as the Queen was to
be slain by these sacrilegious wretches, another band was to fall on this place, free the lady
and proclaim her, while the Prince of Parma landed from the Netherlands and brought fire and
sword with him."

"And Antony would have brought this upon us?" said Humfrey, still slow to believe it of his
old comrade.

"All for the true religion's sake," said Cavendish.  "They were ringing bells and giving thanks,
for the discovery and baffling thereof, when we came down from London."

"As well they might," said Humfrey.  "But how was it detected and overthrown?  Was it through
Langston?"

"Ah, ha! we had had the strings in our hands all along.  Why, Langston, as thou namest him,
though we call him Maude, and a master spy called Gifford, have kept us warned thoroughly of
every stage in the business. Maude even contrived to borrow the picture under colour of getting
it blessed by the Pope's agent, and lent it to Mr. Secretary Walsingham, by whom it was privily
shown to the Queen. Thereby she recognised the rogue Barnwell, an Irishman it seems, when she
was walking in the Park at Richmond with only her women and Sir Christopher Hatton, who is
better at dancing than at fighting.  Not a sign did she give, but she kept him in check with
her royal eye, so that he durst not so much as draw his pistol from his cloak; but she owned
afterwards to my Lady Norris that she could have kissed you when you came between, and all
the more, when you caught her meaning and followed her bidding silently.  You will hear of
it again, Humps."

"However that may be, it is a noble thing to have seen such courage in a woman and a queen.
But how could they let it go so near?  I could shudder now to think of the risk to her person!"

"There goes more to policy than you yet wot of," said Will, in his patronising tone.  "In truth,
Barnwell had started off unknown to his comrades, hoping to have the glory of the achievement
all to himself by forestalling them, or else Mr. Secretary would have been warned in time to
secure the Queen."

"But wherefore leave these traitors at large to work mischief?"

"See you not, you simple Humfrey, that, as I said methinks some time since, it is well sometimes
to give a rogue rope enough and he will hang himself?  Close the trap too soon, and you miss
the biggest rat of all.  So we waited until the prey seemed shy and about to escape. Babington
had, it seems, suspected Maude or Langston, or whatever you call him, and had ridden out of
town, hiding in St. John's Wood with some of his fellows, till they were starved out, and trying
to creep into some outbuildings at Harrow, were there taken, and brought into London the morning
we came away.  Ballard, the blackest villain of all, is likewise in ward, and here we are to
complete our evidence."

"Nay, throughout all you have said, I have heard nothing to explain this morning's work."

Will laughed outright.  "And so you think all this would have been done without a word from
their liege lady, the princess they all wanted to deliver from captivity!   No, no, sir!  'Twas
thus. There's an honest man at Burton, a brewer, who sends beer week by week for this house,
and very good ale it is, as I can testify.  I wish I had a tankard of it here to qualify these
mulberries.  This same brewer is instructed by Gifford, whose uncle lives in these parts, to
fit a false bottom to one of his barrels, wherein is a box fitted for the receipt of letters
and parcels.  Then by some means, through Langston I believe, Babington and Gifford made known
to the Queen of Scots and the French ambassador that here was a sure way of sending and receiving
letters.  The Queen's butler, old Hannibal, was to look in the bottom of the barrel with the
yellow hoop, and one Barnes, a familiar of Gifford and Babington, undertook the freight at
the other end.  The ambassador, M. de Chateauneuf, seemed to doubt at first, and sent a single
letter by way of experiment, and that having been duly delivered and answered, the bait was
swallowed, and not a week has gone by but letters have come and gone from hence, all being
first opened, copied, and deciphered by worthy Mr. Phillipps, and every word of them laid before
the Council."

"Hum!  We should not have reckoned that fair play when we went to Master Sniggius's," observed
Humfrey, as he heard his companion's tone of exultation.

"Fair play is a jewel that will not pass current in statecraft," responded Cavendish.  "Moreover,
that the plotter should be plotted against is surely only his desert.  But thou art a mere
sailor, my Talbot, and these subtilties of policy are not for thee."

"For the which Heaven be praised!" said Humfrey.  "Yet having, as you say, read all these letters
by the way, I see not wherefore ye are come down to seek for more."

Will here imitated the Lord Treasurer's nod as well as in him lay, not perhaps himself knowing
the darker recesses of this same plot. He did know so much as that every stage in it had been
revealed to Walsingham and Burghley as it proceeded.  He did not know that the entire scheme
had been hatched, not by a blind and fanatical partisan of Mary's, doing evil that what he
supposed to be good, might come, but by Gifford and Morgan, Walsingham's agents, for the express
purpose of causing Mary totally to ruin herself, and to compel Elizabeth to put her to death,
and that the unhappy Babington and his friends were thus recklessly sacrificed.  The assassin
had even been permitted to appear in Elizabeth's presence in order to terrify her into the
conviction that her life could only be secured by Mary's death.  They, too, did evil that good
might come, thinking Mary's death alone could ensure them from Pope and Spaniard; but surely
they descended into a lower depth of iniquity than did their victims.

Will himself was not certain what was wanted among the Queen's papers, unless it might be the
actual letters, from Babington, copies of which had been given by Phillips to the Council,
so he only looked sagacious; and Humfrey thought of the Castle Well, and felt the satisfaction
there is in seeing a hunted creature escape.  He asked, however, about Cuthbert Langston, saying,
"He is--worse luck, as you may have heard--akin to my father, who always pitied him as misguided,
but thought him as sincere in his folly as ever was this unlucky Babington."

"So he seems to have been till of late.  He hovered about in sundry disguises, as you know,
much to the torment of us all; but finally he seems to have taken some umbrage at the lady,
thinking she flouted his services, or did not pay him high enough for them, and Gifford bought
him over easily enough; but he goes with us by the name of Maude, and the best of it is that
the poor fools thought he was hoodwinking us all the time.  They never dreamt that we saw through
them like glass. Babington was himself with Mr. Secretary only last week, offering to go to
France on business for him--the traitor! Hark! there are more sounds of horse hoofs.  Who comes
now, I marvel!"

This was soon answered by a serving-man, who hurried out to tell Humfrey that his father was
arrived, and in a few moments the young man was blessed and embraced by the good Richard, while
Diccon stood by, considerably repaired in flesh and colour by his brief stay under his mother's
care.

Mr. Richard Talbot was heartily welcomed by Sir Amias Paulett, who regretted that his daughter
was out of reach, but did not make any offer of facilitating their meeting.

Richard explained that he was on his way to London on behalf of the Earl.  Reports and letters,
not very clear, had reached Sheffield of young Babington being engaged in a most horrible conspiracy
against the Queen and country, and my Lord and my Lady, who still preserved a great kindness
for their former ward, could hardly believe it, and had sent their useful and trustworthy kinsman
to learn the truth, and to find out whether any amount of fine or forfeiture would avail to
save his life.

Sir Amias thought it would be a fruitless errand, and so did Richard himself, when he had heard
as much of the history as it suited Paulett and Wade to tell, and though they esteemed and
trusted him, they did not care to go beneath that outer surface of the plot which was filling
all London with fury.

When, having finished their after-dinner repose, they repaired to make farther search, taking
Cavendish to assist, they somewhat reluctantly thought it due to Mr. Talbot to invite his presence,
but he declined. He and his son had much to say to one another, he observed, and not long to
say it in.

"Besides," he added, when he found himself alone with Humfrey, having despatched Diccon on
some errand to the stables, "'tis a sorry sight to see all the poor Lady's dainty hoards turned
out by strangers.  If it must be, it must, but it would irk me to be an idle gazer thereon."

"I would only," said Humfrey, "be assured that they would not light on the proofs of Cicely's
birth."

"Thou mayst be at rest on that score, my son.  The Lady saw them, owned them, and bade thy
mother keep them, saying ours were safer hands than hers.  Thy mother was sore grieved, Humfrey,
when she saw thee not; but she sends thee her blessing, and saith thou dost right to stay and
watch over poor little Cis."

"It were well if I were watching over her," said Humfrey, "but she is mewed up at Tixall, and
I am only keeping guard over poor Mistress Seaton and the rest."

"Thou hast seen her?"

"Yea, and she was far more our own sweet maid than when she came back to us at Bridgefield."

And Humfrey told his father all he had to tell of what he had seen and heard since he had been
at Chartley.  His adventures in London had already been made known by Diccon.  Mr. Talbot was
aghast, perhaps most of all at finding that his cousin Cuthbert was a double traitor.  From
the Roman Catholic point of view, there had been no treason in his former machinations on behalf
of Mary, if she were in his eyes his rightful sovereign, but the betrayal of confidence reposed
in him was so horrible that the good Master Richard refused to believe it, till he had heard
the proofs again and again, and then he exclaimed,

"That such a Judas should ever call cousin with us!"

There could be little hope, as both agreed, of saving the unfortunate victims; but Richard
was all the more bent on fulfilling Lord Shrewsbury's orders, and doing his utmost for Babington.
As to Humfrey, it would be better that he should remain where he was, so that Cicely might
have some protector near her in case of any sudden dispersion of Mary's suite.

"Poor maiden!" said her foster-father, "she is in a manner ours, and we cannot but watch over
her; but after all, I doubt me whether it had not been better for her and for us, if the waves
had beaten the little life out of her ere I carried her home."

"She hath been the joy of my life," said Humfrey, low and hoarsely.

"And I fear me she will be the sorrow of it.  Not by her fault, poor wench, but what hope canst
thou have, my son?"

"None, sir," said Humfrey, "except of giving up all if I can so defend her from aught."  He
spoke in a quiet matter-of-fact way that made his father look with some inquiry at his grave
settled face, quite calm, as if saying nothing new, but expressing a long-formed quiet purpose.

Nor, though Humfrey was his eldest son and heir, did Richard Talbot try to cross it.

He asked whether he might see Cicely before going on to London, but Sir Amias said that in
that case she would not be allowed to return to the Queen, and that to have had any intercourse
with the prisoners might overthrow all his designs in London, and he therefore only left with
Humfrey his commendations to her, with a pot of fresh honey and a lavender-scented set of kerchiefs
from Mistress Susan.

CHAPTER XXX.

TETE-A-TETE.

During that close imprisonment at Tixall Cicely learnt to know her mother both in her strength
and weakness.  They were quite alone; except that Sir Walter Ashton daily came to perform the
office of taster and carver at their meals, and on the first evening his wife dragged herself
upstairs to superintend the arrangement of their bedroom, and to supply them with toilette
requisites according to her own very limited notions and possessions.  The Dame was a very
homely, hard-featured lady, deaf, and extremely fat and heavy, one of the old uncultivated
rustic gentry who had lagged far behind the general civilisation of the country, and regarded
all refinements as effeminate French vanities.  She believed, likewise, all that was said against
Queen Mary, whom she looked on as barely restrained from plunging a dagger into Elizabeth's
heart, and letting Parma's hell-hounds loose upon Tixall.  To have such a guest imposed on
her was no small grievance, and nothing but her husband's absolute mandate could have induced
her to come up with the maids who brought sheets for the bed, pillows, and the like needments.
Mary tried to make her requests as moderate as necessity would permit; but when they had been
shouted into her ears by one of the maids, she shook her head at most of them, as articles
unknown to her.  Nor did she ever appear again.  The arrangement of the bed-chamber was performed
by two maidservants, the Knight himself meanwhile standing a grim sentinel over the two ladies
in the outer apartment to hinder their holding any communication through the servants.  All
requests had to be made to him, and on the first morning Mary made a most urgent one for writing
materials, books, and either needlework or spinning.

Pen and ink had been expressly forbidden, the only book in the house was a thumbed and torn
primer, but Dame Joan, after much grumbling at fine ladies' whims, vouchsafed to send up a
distaff, some wool, a piece of unbleached linen, and a skein of white thread.

Queen Mary executed therewith an exquisite piece of embroidery, which having escaped Dame Joan's
first impulse to burn it on the spot, remained for many years the show and the wonder of Tixall.
Save for this employment, she said she should have gone mad in her utter uncertainty about
her own fate, or that of those involved with her. To ask questions of Ashton was like asking
them of a post.  He would give her no notion whether her servants were at Chartley or not,
whether they were at large or in confinement, far less as to who was accused of the plot, and
what had been discovered.  All that could be said for him was that his churlishness was passive
and according to his ideas of duty.  He was a very reluctant and uncomfortable jailer, but
he never insulted, nor wilfully ill-used his unfortunate captive.

Thus Mary was left to dwell on the little she knew, namely, that Babington and his fellows
were arrested, and that she was supposed to be implicated; but there her knowledge ceased,
except that Humfrey's warning convinced her that Cuthbert Langston had been at least one of
the traitors.  He had no doubt been offended and disappointed at that meeting during the hawking
at Tutbury.

"Yet I need scarcely seek the why or the wherefore," she said.  "I have spent my life in a
world of treachery.  No sooner do I take a step on ground that seems ever so firm, than it
proves a quicksand. They will swallow me at last."

Daily--more than daily--did she and Cicely go over together that hurried conversation on the
moor, and try to guess whether Langston intended to hint at Cicely's real birth.  He had certainly
not disclosed her secret as yet, or Paulett would never have selected her as sprung of a loyal
house, but he might guess at the truth, and be waiting for an opportunity to sell it dearly
to those who would regard her as possessed of dangerous pretensions.

And far more anxiously did the Queen recur to examining Cicely on what she had gathered from
Humfrey.  This was in fact nothing, for he had been on his guard against either telling or
hearing anything inconsistent with loyalty to the English Queen, and thus had avoided conversation
on these subjects.

Nor did the Queen communicate much.  Cicely never understood clearly what she dreaded, what
she expected to be found among her papers, or what had been in the packet thrown into the well.
The girl did not dare to ask direct questions, and the Queen always turned off indirect inquiries,
or else assured her that she was still a simple happy child, and that it was better for her
own sake that she should know nothing, then caressed her, and fondly pitied her for not being
admitted to her mother's confidence, but said piteously that she knew not what the secrets
of Queens and captives were, not like those of Mistress Susan about the goose to be dressed,
or the crimson hose to be knitted for a surprise to her good husband.

But Cicely could see that she expected the worst, and believed in a set purpose to shed her
blood, and she spent much time in devotion, though sorely distressed by the absence of all
those appliances which her Church had taught her to rest upon.  And these prayers, which often
began with floods of tears, so that Cicely drew away into the window with her distaff in order
not to seem to watch them, ended with rendering her serene and calm, with a look of high resignation,
as having offered herself as a sacrifice and martyr for her Church.

And yet was it wholly as a Roman Catholic that she had been hated, intrigued against, and deposed
in her own kingdom?  Was it simply as a Roman Catholic that she was, as she said, the subject
of a more cruel plot than that of which she was accused?

Mysterious woman that she was, she was never more mysterious than to her daughter in those
seventeen days that they were shut up together! It did not so much strike Cicely at the time,
when she was carried along with all her mother's impulses and emotions, without reflecting
on them, but when in after times she thought over all that then had passed, she felt how little
she had understood.

They suffered a good deal from the heat and closeness of the rooms, for Mary was like a modern
Englishwoman in her craving for free air, and these were the dog-days.  They had contrived
by the help of a diamond that the Queen carried about with her, after the fashion of the time,
to extract a pane or two from the lattices so ingeniously that the master of the house never
found it out.  And as their two apartments looked out different ways, they avoided the full
sunshine, for they had neither curtains nor blinds to their windows, by moving from one to
the other; but still the closeness was very oppressive, and in the heat of the day, just after
dinner, they could do nothing but lie on the table, while the Queen told stories of her old
life in France, till sometimes they both went to sleep.  Most of her dainty needlework was
done in the long light mornings, for she hardly slept at all in the hot nights. Cis scarcely
saw her in bed, for she prayed long after the maiden had fallen asleep, and was up with the
light and embroidering by the window.

She only now began to urge Cicely to believe as she did, and to join her Church, taking blame
to herself for never having attempted it more seriously.  She told of the oneness and the glory
of Roman Catholicism as she had seen it in France, held out its promises and professions, and
dwelt on the comfort of the intercession of the Blessed Virgin and the Saints; assuring Cicely
that there was nothing but sacrilege, confusion, and cruelty on the other side.

Sometimes the maiden was much moved by the tender manner and persuasive words, and she really
had so much affection and admiration for her mother as to be willing to do all that she wished,
and to believe her the ablest and most clear-sighted of human beings; but whenever Mary was
not actually talking to her, there was a curious swaying back of the pendulum in her mind to
the conviction that what Master Richard and Mistress Susan believed must be the right thing,
that led to trustworthy goodness.  She had an enthusiastic love for the Queen, but her faith
and trust were in them and in Humfrey, and she could see religious matters from their point
of view better than from that of her mother.

So, though the Queen often felt herself carrying her daughter along, she always found that
there had been a slipping back to the old standpoint every time she began again.  She was considering
with some anxiety of the young maiden's future.

"Could I but send thee to my good sister, the Duchess of Lorraine, she would see thee well
and royally married," she said.  "Then couldst thou be known by thine own name, and rank as
Princess of Scotland.  If I can only see my Courcelles again, she would take thee safely and
prove all--and thy hand will be precious to many.  It may yet bring back the true faith to
England, when my brave cousin of Guise has put down the Bearnese, and when the poor stumbling-block
here is taken away."

"Oh speak not of that, dear madam, my mother."

"I must speak, child.  I must think how it will be with thee, so marvellously saved, and restored
to be my comfort.  I must provide for thy safety and honour.  Happily the saints guarded me
from ever mentioning thee in my letters, so that there is no fear that Elizabeth should lay
hands on thee, unless Langston should have spoken--the which can hardly be.  But if all be
broken up here, I must find thee a dwelling with my kindred worthy of thy birth."

"Mr. and Mrs. Talbot would take me home," murmured Cicely.

"Girl!  After all the training I have bestowed on thee, is it possible that thou wouldst fain
go back to make cheeses and brew small beer with those Yorkshire boors, rather than reign a
princess? I thought thy heart was nobler."

Cicely hung her head ashamed.  "I was very happy there," she said in excuse.

"Happy--ay, with the milkmaid's bliss.  There may be fewer sorrows in such a life as that--just
as those comely kine of Ashton's that I see grazing in the park have fewer sorrows than human
creatures.  But what know they of our joys, or what know the commonalty of the joy of ruling,
calling brave men one's own, riding before one's men in the field, wielding counsels of State,
winning the love of thousands? Nay, nay, I will not believe it of my child, unless 'tis the
base Border blood that is in her which speaks."

Cicely was somewhat overborne by being thus accused of meanness of tastes, when she had heard
the Queen talk enviously of that same homely life which now she despised so heartily.  She
faltered in excuse, "Methought, madam, you would be glad to think there was one loving shelter
ever open to me."

"Loving!  Ah!  I see what it is," said the Queen, in a tone of disgust. "It is the sailor loon
that has overthrown it all.  A couple of walks in the garden with him, and the silly maid is
ready to throw over all nobler thoughts."

"Madam, he spoke no such word to me."

"'Twas the infection, child--only the infection."

"Madam, I pray you--"

"Whist, child.  Thou wilt be a perilous bride for any commoner, and let that thought, if no
other, keep thee from lowering thine eyes to such as he.  Were I and thy brother taken out
of the way, none would stand between thee and both thrones!  What would English or Scots say
to find thee a household Joan, wedded to one of Drake's rude pirate fellows?  I tell thee it
would be the worse for him.  They have made it treason to wed royal blood without Elizabeth's
consent.  No, no, for his sake, as well as thine own, thou must promise me never thus to debase
thy royal lineage."

"Mother; neither he nor I have thought or spoken of such a matter since we knew how it was with me.

"And you give me your word?"

"Yea, madam," said Cicely, who had really never entertained the idea of marrying Humfrey, implicit
as was her trust in him as a brother and protector.

"That is well.  And so soon as I am restored to my poor servants, if I ever am, I will take
measures for sending the French remnant to their own land; nor shall my Courcelles quit thee
till she hath seen thee safe in the keeping of Madame de Lorraine or of Queen Louise, who is
herself a kinswoman of ours, and, they say, is piety and gentleness itself."

"As you will, madam," said Cicely, her heart sinking at the thought of the strange new world
before her, but perceiving that she must not be the means of bringing Humfrey into trouble
and danger.

Perhaps she felt this the more from seeing how acutely her mother suffered at times from sorrow
for those involved in her disaster. She gave Babington and his companions, as well as Nau and
Curll, up for lost, as the natural consequence of having befriended her; and she blamed herself
remorsefully, after the long experience of the fatal consequences of meddling in her affairs,
for having entered into correspondence with the bright enthusiastic boy whom she remembered,
and having lured him without doubt to his death.

"Alack! alack!" she said, "and yet such is liberty, that I should forget all I have gone through,
and do the like again, if the door seemed opened to me.  At least there is this comfort, cruel
child, thy little heart was not set on him, gracious and handsome though he were--and thy mother's
most devoted knight!  Ah! poor youth, it wrings my soul to think of him.  But at least he is
a Catholic, his soul will be safe, and I will have hundreds of masses sung for him. Oh that
I knew how it goes with them!  This torture of silent suspense is the most cruel of all."

Mary paced the room with impatient misery, and in such a round the weary hours dragged by,
only mitigated by one welcome thunderstorm, for seventeen days, whose summer length made them
seem the more endless. Cicely, who had never before in her life been shut up in the house so
many hours, was pale, listless, and even fretful towards the Queen, who bore with her petulance
so tenderly as more than once to make her weep bitterly for very shame.  After one of these
fits of tears, Mary pleaded earnestly with Sir Walter Ashton for permission for the maiden
to take a turn in the garden every day, but though the good gentleman's complexion bore testimony
that he lived in the fresh air, he did not believe in its efficacy; he said he had no orders,
and could do nothing without warrant.  But that evening at supper, the serving-maid brought
up a large brew of herbs, dark and nauseous, which Dame Ashton had sent as good for the young
lady's megrim.

"Will you taste it, sir?" asked the Queen of Sir Walter, with a revival of her lively humour.

"The foul fiend have me if a drop comes within my lips," muttered the knight.  "I am not bound
to taste for a tirewoman!" he added, leaving it in doubt whether his objection arose from distaste
to his lady's messes, or from pride; and he presently said, perhaps half-ashamed of himself,
and willing to cast the blame on the other side,

"It was kindly meant of my good dame, and if you choose to flout at, rather than benefit by
it, that is no affair of mine."

He left the potion, and Cicely disposed of it by small instalments at the windows; and a laugh
over the evident horror it excited in the master, did the captives at least as much good as
the camomile, centaury, wormwood, and other ingredients of the bowl.

Happily it was only two days later that Sir Walter announced that his custody of the Queen
was over, and Sir Amias Paulett was come for her. There was little preparation to make, for
the two ladies had worn their riding-dresses all the time; but on reaching the great door,
where Sir Amias, attended by Humfrey, was awaiting them, they were astonished to see a whole
troop on horseback, all armed with head-pieces, swords and pistols, to the number of a hundred
and forty.

"Wherefore is this little army raised?" she asked.

"It is by order of the Queen," replied Ashton, with his accustomed surly manner, "and need
enough in the time of such treasons!"

The Queen turned to him with tears on her cheeks.  "Good gentlemen," she said, "I am not witting
of anything against the Queen.  Am I to be taken to the Tower?"

"No, madam, back to Chartley," replied Sir Amias.

"I knew they would never let me see my cousin," sighed the Queen. "Sir," as Paulett placed
her on her horse, "of your pity tell me whether I shall find all my poor servants there."

"Yea, madam, save Mr. Nau and Mr. Curll, who are answering for themselves and for you.  Moreover,
Curll's wife was delivered two days since."

This intelligence filled Mary with more anxiety than she chose to manifest to her unsympathising
surroundings; Cis meanwhile had been assisted to mount by Humfrey, who told her that Mrs. Curll
was thought to be doing well, but that there were fears for the babe.  It was impossible to
exchange many words, for they were immediately behind the Queen and her two warders, and Humfrey
could only tell her that his father had been at Chartley, and had gone on to London; but there
was inexpressible relief in hearing the sound of his voice, and knowing she had some one to
think for her and protect her.  The promise she had made to the Queen only seemed to make him
more entirely her brother by putting that other love out of the question.

There was a sad sight at the gate,--a whole multitude of wretched-looking beggars, and poor
of all ages and degrees of misery, who all held out their hands and raised one cry of "Alms,
alms, gracious Lady, alms, for the love of heaven!"

Mary looked round on them with tearful eyes, and exclaimed, "Alack, good folk, I have nothing
to give you!  I am as much a beggar as yourselves!"

The escort dispersed them roughly, Paulett assuring her that they were nothing but "a sort
of idle folk," who were only encouraged in laziness by her bounty, which was very possibly
true of a certain proportion of them, but it had been a sore grief to her that since Cuthbert
Langston's last approach in disguise she had been prevented from giving alms.

In due time Chartley was reached, and the first thing the Queen did on dismounting was to hurry
to visit poor Barbara Curll, who had--on her increasing illness--been removed to one of the
guest-chambers, where the Queen now found her, still in much distress about her husband, who
was in close imprisonment in Walsingham's house, and had not been allowed to send her any kind
of message; and in still more immediate anxiety about her new-born infant, who did not look
at all as if its little life would last many hours.

She lifted up her languid eyelids, and scarcely smiled when the Queen declared, "See, Barbara,
I am come back again to you, to nurse you and my god-daughter into health to receive your husband
again.  Nay, have no fears for him.  They cannot hurt him.  He has done nothing, and is a Scottish
subject beside.  My son shall write to claim him," she declared with such an assumed air of
confidence that a shade of hope crossed the pale face, and the fear for her child became the
more pressing of the two griefs.

"We will christen her at once," said Mary, turning to the nearest attendant.  "Bear a request
from me to Sir Amias that his chaplain may come at once and baptize my god-child."

Sir Amias was waiting in the gallery in very ill-humour at the Queen's delay, which kept his
supper waiting.  Moreover, his party had a strong dislike to private baptism, holding that
the important point was the public covenant made by responsible persons, and the notion of
the sponsorship of a Roman Catholic likewise shocked him. So he made ungracious answer that
he would have no baptism save in church before the congregation, with true Protestant gossips.

"So saith he?" exclaimed Mary, when the reply was reported to her. "Nay, my poor little one,
thou shalt not be shut out of the Kingdom of Heaven for his churlishness."  And taking the
infant on her knee, she dipped her hand in the bowl of water that had been prepared for the
chaplain, and baptized it by her own name of Mary.

The existing Prayer-book had been made expressly to forbid lay baptism and baptism by women,
at the special desire of the reformers, and Sir Amias was proportionately horrified, and told
her it was an offence for the Archbishop's court.

"Very like," said Mary.  "Your Protestant courts love to slay both body and soul.  Will it
please you to open my own chambers to me, sir?"

Sir Amias handed the key to one of her servants but she motioned him aside.

"Those who put me forth must admit me," she said.

The door was opened by one of the gentlemen of the household, and they entered.  Every repository
had been ransacked, every cabinet stood open and empty, every drawer had been pulled out. 
Wearing apparel and the like remained, but even this showed signs of having been tossed over
and roughly rearranged by masculine fingers.

Mary stood in the midst of the room, which had a strange air of desolation, an angry light
in her eyes, and her hands clasped tightly one into the other.  Paulett attempted some expression
of regret for the disarray, pleading his orders.

"It needs not excuse, sir," said Mary, "I understand to whom I owe this insult.  There are
two things that your Queen can never take from me--royal blood and the Catholic faith.  One
day some of you will be sorry for what you have now put upon me!  I would be alone, sir," and
she proudly motioned him to the door, with a haughty gesture, showing her still fully Queen
in her own apartments. Paulett obeyed, and when he was gone, the Queen seemed to abandon the
command over herself she had preserved all this time.  She threw herself into Jean Kennedy's
arms, and wept freely and piteously, while the good lady, rejoicing at heart to have recovered
"her bairn," fondled and soothed her with soft Scottish epithets, as though the worn woman
had been a child again. "Yea, nurse, mine own nurse, I am come back to thee; for a little while--only
a little while, nurse, for they will have my blood, and oh! I would it were ended, for I am
aweary of it all."

Jean and Elizabeth Curll tried to cheer and console her, alarmed at this unwonted depression,
but she only said, "Get me to bed, nurse, I am sair forfaughten."

She was altogether broken down by the long suspense, the hardships and the imprisonment she
had undergone, and she kept her bed for several days, hardly speaking, but apparently reposing
in the relief afforded by the recovered care and companionship of her much-loved attendants.

There she was when Paulett came to demand the keys of the caskets where her treasure was kept.
Melville had refused to yield them, and all the Queen said was, "Robbery is to be added to
the rest," a sentence which greatly stung the knight, but he actually seized all the coin that
he found, including what belonged to Nau and Curll, and, only retaining enough for present
expenses, sent the rest off to London.

CHAPTER XXXI.

EVIDENCE.

In the meantime the two Richard Talbots, father and son, had safely arrived in London, and
had been made welcome at the house of their noble kinsman.

Nau and Curll, they heard, were in Walsingham's house, subjected to close examination; Babington
and all his comrades were in the Tower. The Council was continually sitting to deliberate over
the fate of the latter unhappy men, of whose guilt there was no doubt; and neither Lord Talbot
nor Will Cavendish thought there was any possibility of Master Richard gaining permission to
plead how the unfortunate Babington had been worked on and deceived.  After the sentence should
be pronounced, Cavendish thought that the request of the Earl of Shrewsbury might prevail to
obtain permission for an interview between the prisoner and one commissioned by his former
guardian.  Will was daily attending Sir Francis Walsingham as his clerk, and was not by any
means unwilling to relate anything he had been able to learn.

Queen Elizabeth was, it seemed, greatly agitated and distressed.  The shock to her nerves on
the day when she had so bravely overawed Barnwell with the power of her eye had been such as
not to be easily surmounted.  She was restless and full of anxiety, continually starting at
every sound, and beginning letters to the Queen of Scots which were never finished.  She had
more than once inquired after the brave sailor youths who had come so opportunely to her rescue;
and Lord Talbot thought it would be well to present Diccon and his father to her, and accordingly
took them with him to Greenwich Palace, where they had the benefit of looking on as loyal subjects,
while her Majesty, in royal fashion, dined in public, to the sound of drums, trumpets, fifes,
and stringed instruments.  But though dressed with her usual elaborate care, she looked older,
paler, thinner, and more haggard than when Diccon had seen her three weeks previously, and
neither her eye nor mouth had the same steadiness.  She did not eat with relish, but almost
as if she were forcing herself, lest any lack of appetite might be observed and commented upon,
and her looks continually wandered as though in search of some lurking enemy; for in truth
no woman, nor man either, could easily forget the suggestion which had recently been brought
to her knowledge, that an assassin might "lurk in her gallery and stab her with his dagger,
or if she should walk in her garden, he might shoot her with his dagg, or if she should walk
abroad to take the air, he might assault her with his arming sword and make sure work." Even
though the enemies were safe in prison, she knew not but that dagger, dagg, or arming sword
might still be ready for her, and she believed that any fatal charge openly made against Mary
at the trial might drive her friends to desperation and lead to the use of dagg or dagger.
She was more unhinged than ever before, and commanded herself with difficulty when going through
all the scenes of her public life as usual.

The Talbots soon felt her keen eye on them, and a look of recognition passed over her face
as she saw Diccon.  As soon as the meal was over, and the table of trestles removed, she sent
a page to command Lord Talbot to present them to her.

"So, sir," she said, as Richard the elder knelt before her, "you are the father of two brave
sons, whom you have bred up to do good service; but I only see one of them here.  Where is
the elder?"

"So please your Majesty, Sir Amias Paulett desired to retain him at Chartley to assist in guarding
the Queen of Scots."

"It is well.  Paulett knows a trusty lad when he sees him.  And so do I.  I would have the
youths both for my gentlemen pensioners--the elder when he can be spared from his charge, this
stripling at once."

"We are much beholden to your Majesty," said Richard, bending his head the lower as he knelt
on one knee; for such an appointment gave both training and recommendation to young country
gentlemen, and was much sought after.

"Methinks," said Elizabeth, who had the royal faculty of remembering faces, "you have yourself
so served us, Mr. Talbot?"

"I was for three years in the band of your Majesty's sister, Queen Mary," said Richard, "but
I quitted it on her death to serve at sea, and I have since been in charge at Sheffield, under
my Lord of Shrewsbury."

"We have heard that he hath found you a faithful servant," said the Queen, "yea, so well affected
as even to have refused your daughter in marriage to this same Babington.  Is this true?"

"It is, so please your Majesty."

"And it was because you already perceived his villainy?"

"There were many causes, Madam," said Richard, catching at the chance of saying a word for
the unhappy lad, "but it was not so much villainy that I perceived in him as a nature that
might be easily practised upon by worse men than himself."

"Not so much a villain ready made as the stuff villains are made of," said the Queen, satisfied
with her own repartee.

"So please your Majesty, the metal that in good hands becomes a brave sword, in evil ones becomes
a treacherous dagger."

"Well said, Master Captain, and therefore, we must destroy alike the dagger and the hands that
perverted it."

"Yet," ventured Richard, "the dagger attempered by your Majesty's clemency might yet do noble
service."

Elizabeth, however, broke out fiercely with one of her wonted oaths.

"How now?  Thou wouldst not plead for the rascal!  I would have you to know that to crave pardon
for such a fellow is well-nigh treason in itself.  You have license to leave us, sir."

"I should scarce have brought you, Richard," said Lord Talbot, as soon as they had left the
presence chamber, "had I known you would venture on such folly.  Know you not how incensed
she is?  Naught but your proved loyalty and my father's could have borne you off this time,
and it would be small marvel to me if the lad's appointment were forgotten."

"I could not choose but run the risk," said Richard.  "What else came I to London for?"

"Well," said his cousin, "you are a brave man, Richard Talbot.  I know those who had rather
scale a Spanish fortress than face Queen Elizabeth in her wrath.  Her tongue is sharper than
even my stepdame's, though it doth not run on so long."

Lord Talbot was not quite easy when that evening a gentleman, clad in rich scarlet and gold,
and armed to the teeth, presented himself at Shrewsbury House and inquired for Mr. Talbot of
Bridgefield. However, it proved to be the officer of the troop of gentlemen pensioners come
to enroll Diccon, tell him the requirements, and arrange when he should join in a capacity
something like that of an esquire to one of the seniors of the troop.  Humfrey was likewise
inquired for, but it was thought better on all accounts that he should continue in his present
situation, since it was especially needful to have trustworthy persons at Chartley in the existing
crisis.  Master Richard was well satisfied to find that his son's immediate superior would
be a gentleman of a good Yorkshire family, whose father was known to him, and who promised
to have a care of Master Richard the younger, and preserve him, as far as possible, from the
perils of dicing, drinking, and running into bad company.

Launching a son in this manner and equipping him for service was an anxious task for a father,
while day after day the trial was deferred, the examinations being secretly carried on before
the Council till, as Cavendish explained, what was important should be disclosed.

Of course this implied what should be fatal to Queen Mary.  The priest Ballard was racked,
but he was a man of great determination, and nothing was elicited from him.  The other prisoners,
and Nau and Curll, were questioned again and again under threats and promises before the Council,
and the letters that had been copied on their transit through the beer barrels were read and
made the subject of cross-examination--still all in private, for, as Cavendish said, "perilous
stuff to the Queen's Majesty might come out."

He allowed, however, day after day, that though there was quite enough to be fatal to Ballard,
Babington, Savage, and Barnwell, whatever else was wanting was not forthcoming.  At last, however,
Cavendish returned full of a certain exultation: "We have it," he said,--"a most undoubted
treasonable letter, which will catch her between the shoulders and the head."

He spoke to Lord Talbot and Richard, who were standing together in a window, and who knew only
too well who was referred to, and what the expression signified.  On a further query from his
step-brother, Cavendish explained that it was a long letter, dated July 16, arranging in detail
the plan for "the Lady's" own rescue from Chartley at the moment of the landing of the Spaniards,
and likewise showing her privy to the design of the six gentlemen against the life of the Queen,
and desiring to know their names.  Nau had, he said, verified the cipher as one used in the
correspondence, and Babington, when it was shown to him, had declared that it had been given
to him in the street by a stranger serving-man in a blue coat, and that it had removed all
doubt from his mind, as it was an answer to a letter of his, a copy of which had been produced,
but not the letter itself.

"Which we have not found," said Cavendish.

"Not for all that search of yours at Chartley?" said Richard. "Methought it was thorough enough!"

"The Lady must have been marvellously prudent as to the keeping of letters," said Will, "or
else she must have received some warning; for there is absolutely naught to be found in her
repositories that will serve our purpose."

"Our purpose!" repeated Richard, as he recollected many little kindnesses that William Cavendish
when a boy had received from the prisoner at Sheffield.

"Yea, Master Richard," he returned, unabashed.  "It is absolutely needful that we should openly
prove this woman to be what we know her to be in secret.  Her Majesty's life will never be
safe for a moment while she lives; and what would become of us all did she overlive the Queen!"

"Well, Will, for all your mighty word we, you are but the pen in Mr. Secretary's hand, so there
is no need to argue the matter with you," said Richard.

The speech considerably nettled Master William, especially as it made Lord Talbot laugh.

"Father!" said Diccon afterwards, "Humfrey tried to warn Mr. Babington that we had seen this
Langston, who hath as many metamorphoses as there be in Ovidius Naso, coming privily forth
from Sir Francis Walsingham's closet, but he would not listen, and declared that Langston was
holding Mr. Secretary in play."

"Deceiving and being deceived," sighed his father.  "That is ever the way, my son!  Remember
that if thou playest false, other men will play falser with thee and bring thee to thy ruin.
I would not leave thee here save that the gentlemen pensioners are a more honest and manly
sort of folk than yonder gentlemen with their state craft, wherein they throw over all truth
and honour as well as mercy."

This conversation took place as the father and son were making their way to a house in Westminster,
where Antony Babington's wife was with her mother, Lady Ratcliffe.  It had been a match made
by Lady Shrewsbury, and it was part of Richard's commission to see and confer with the family.
It was not a satisfactory interview.  The wife was a dull childish little thing, not yet sixteen;
and though she cried, she had plainly never lived in any real sympathy or companionship with
her husband, who had left her with her parents, while leading the life of mingled amusement
and intrigue which had brought him to his present state; and the mother, a hard-featured woman,
evidently thought herself cheated and ill used.  She railed at Babington and at my Lady Countess
by turns; at the one for his ruinous courses and neglect of her daughter, at the other for
having cozened her into giving her poor child to a treacherous Papist, who would be attainted
in blood, and thus bring her poor daughter and grandchild to poverty. The old lady really seemed
to have lost all pity for her son-in-law in indignation on her daughter's account, and to care
infinitely less for the saving of his life than for the saving of his estate.  Nor did the
young wife herself appear to possess much real affection for poor Antony, of whom she had seen
very little.  There must have been great faults on his side; yet certainly Richard felt that
there was some excuse for him in the mother-in-law, and that if the unfortunate young man could
have married Cicely his lot might have been different.  Yet the good Captain felt all the more
that if Cis had been his own he still would never have given her to Babington.

CHAPTER XXXII.

WESTMINSTER HALL.

Beneath the noble roof of Westminster Hall, with the morning sun streaming in high aloft, at
seven in the morning of the 14th of September, the Court met for the trial of Antony Babington
and his confederates.  The Talbot name and recommendation obtained ready admission, and Lord
Talbot, Richard, and his son formed one small party together with William Cavendish, who had
his tablets, on which to take notes for the use of his superior, Walsingham, who was, however,
one of the Commissioners.

There they sat, those supreme judges, the three Chief-Justices in their scarlet robes of office
forming the centre of the group, which also numbered Lords Cobham and Buckhurst, Sir Francis
Knollys, Sir Christopher Hatton, and most of the chief law officers of the Crown.

"Is Mr. Secretary Walsingham one of the judges here?" asked Diccon. "Methought he had been
in the place of the accuser."

"Peace, boy, and listen," said his father; "these things pass my comprehension."

Nevertheless Richard had determined that if the course of the trial should offer the least
opportunity, he would come forward and plead his former knowledge of young Babington as a rash
and weak-headed youth, easily played upon by designing persons, but likely to take to heart
such a lesson as this, and become a true and loyal subject.  If he could obtain any sort of
mitigation for the poor youth, it would be worth the risk.

The seven conspirators were brought in, and Richard could hardly keep a rush of tears from
his eyes at the sight of those fine, high-spirited young men, especially Antony Babington,
the playfellow of his own children.

Antony was carefully dressed in his favourite colour, dark green, his hair and beard trimmed,
and his demeanour calm and resigned.  The fire was gone from his blue eye, and his bright complexion
had faded, but there was an air of dignity about him such as he had never worn before. His
eyes, as he took his place, wandered round the vast assembly, and rested at length on Mr. Talbot,
as though deriving encouragement and support from the look that met his.  Next to him was another
young man with the same look of birth and breeding, namely Chidiock Tichborne; but John Savage,
an older man, had the reckless bearing of the brutalised soldiery of the Netherlandish wars.
Robert Barnwell, with his red, shaggy brows and Irish physiognomy, was at once recognised by
Diccon.  Donne and Salisbury followed; and the seventh conspirator, John Ballard, was carried
in a chair.  Even Diccon's quick eye could hardly have detected the ruffling, swaggering, richly-clad
Captain Fortescue in this tonsured man in priestly garb, deadly pale, and unable to stand,
from the effects of torture, yet with undaunted, penetrating eyes, all unsubdued.

After the proclamation, Oyez, Oyez, and the command to keep silence, Sandys, the Clerk of the
Crown, began the proceedings.  "John Ballard, Antony Babington, John Savage, Robert Barnwell,
Chidiock Tichborne, Henry Donne, Thomas Salisbury, hold up your hands and answer."  The indictment
was then read at great length, charging them with conspiring to slay the Queen, to deliver
Mary, Queen of Scots, from custody, to stir up rebellion, to bring the Spaniards to invade
England, and to change the religion of the country.  The question was first put to Ballard,
Was he guilty of these treasons or not guilty?

Ballard's reply was, "That I procured the delivery of the Queen of Scots, I am guilty; and
that I went about to alter the religion, I am guilty; but that I intended to slay her Majesty,
I am not guilty."

"Not with his own hand," muttered Cavendish, "but for the rest--"

"Pity that what is so bravely spoken should be false," thought Richard, "yet it may be to leave
the way open to defence."

Sandys, however, insisted that he must plead to the whole indictment, and Anderson, the Chief-Justice
of Common Pleas, declared that he must deny the whole generally, or confess it generally; while
Hatton put in, "Ballard, under thine own hand are all things confessed, therefore now it is
much vanity to stand vaingloriously in denying it."

"Then, sir, I confess I am guilty," he said, with great calmness, though it was the resignation
of all hope.

The same question was then put to Babington.  He, with "a mild countenance, sober gesture,"
and all his natural grace, stood up and spoke, saying "that the time for concealment was past,
and that he was ready to avow how from his earliest infancy he had believed England to have
fallen from the true religion, and had trusted to see it restored thereto.  Moreover, he had
ever a deep love and compassion for the Queen of Scots.  Some," he said, "who are yet at large,
and who are yet as deep in the matter as I--"

"Gifford, Morgan, and another," whispered Cavendish significantly.

"Have they escaped?" asked Diccon.

"So 'tis said."

"The decoy ducks," thought Richard.

Babington was explaining that these men had proposed to him a great enterprise for the rescue
and restoration of the Queen of Scots, and the re-establishment of the Catholic religion in
England by the sword of the Prince of Parma.  A body of gentlemen were to attack Chartley,
free Mary, and proclaim her Queen, and at the same time Queen Elizabeth was to be put to death
by some speedy and skilful method.

"My Lords," he said, "I swear that all that was in me cried out against the wickedness of thus
privily slaying her Majesty."

Some muttered, "The villain! he lies," but the kindly Richard sighed inaudibly, "True, poor
lad!  Thou must have given thy conscience over to strange keepers to be thus led astray."

And Babington went on to say that they had brought this gentleman, Father Ballard, who had
wrought with him to prove that his scruples were weak, carnal, and ungodly, and that it would
be a meritorious deed in the sight of Heaven thus to remove the heretic usurper.

Here the judges sternly bade him not to blaspheme, and he replied, with that "soberness and
good grace" which seems to have struck all the beholders, that he craved patience and pardon,
meaning only to explain how he had been led to the madness which he now repented, understanding
himself to have been in grievous error, though not for the sake of any temporal reward; but
being blinded to the guilt, and assured that the deed was both lawful and meritorious.  He
thus had been brought to destruction through the persuasions of this Ballard.

"A very fit author for so bad a fact," responded Hatton.

"Very true, sir," said Babington; "for from so bad a ground never proceed any better fruits.
He it was who persuaded me to kill the Queen, and to commit the other treasons, whereof I confess
myself guilty."

Savage pleaded guilty at once, with the reckless hardihood of a soldier accustomed to look
on death as the fortune of war.

Barnwell denied any intention of killing the Queen (much to Diccon's surprise), but pleaded
guilty to the rest.  Donne said that on being told of the plot he had prayed that whatever
was most to the honour and glory of Heaven might be done, and being pushed hard by Hatton,
turned this into a confession of being guilty.  Salisbury declared that he had always protested
against killing the Queen, and that he would not have done so for a kingdom, but of the rest
he was guilty. Tichborne showed that but for an accidental lameness he would have been at his
home in Hampshire, but he could not deny his knowledge of the treason.

All having pleaded guilty, no trial was permitted, such as would have brought out the different
degrees of guilt, which varied in all the seven.

A long speech was, however, made by the counsel for the Crown, detailing the plot as it had
been arranged for the public knowledge, and reading aloud a letter from Babington to Queen
Mary, describing his plans both for her rescue and the assassination, saying, "he had appointed
six noble gentlemen for the despatch of the wicked competitor."

Richard caught a look of astonishment on the unhappy young man's face, but it passed into hopeless
despondency, and the speech went on to describe the picture of the conspirators and its strange
motto, concluding with an accusation that they meant to sack London, burn the ships, and "cloy
the ordnance."

A shudder of horror went through the assembly, and perhaps few except Richard Talbot felt that
the examination of the prisoners ought to have been public.  The form, however, was gone through
of asking whether they had cause to render wherefore they should not be condemned to die.

The first to speak was Ballard.  His eyes glanced round with an indomitable expression of scorn
and indignation, which, as Diccon whispered, he could have felt to his very backbone.  It was
like that of a trapped and maimed lion, as the man sat in his chair with crushed and racked
limbs, but with a spirit untamed in its defiance.

"Cause, my Lords?" he replied.  "The cause I have to render will not avail here, but it may
avail before another Judgment-seat, where the question will be, who used the weapons of treason,
not merely against whom they were employed.  Inquiry hath not been made here who suborned the
priest, Dr. Gifford, to fetch me over from Paris, that we might together overcome the scruples
of these young men, and lead them forward in a scheme for the promotion of the true religion
and the right and lawful succession.  No question hath here been put in open court, who framed
the conspiracy, nor for what purpose.  No, my Lords; it would baffle the end you would bring
about, yea, and blot the reputation of some who stand in high places, if it came to light that
the plot was devised, not by the Catholics who were to be the instruments thereof, nor by the
Lady in whose favour all was to be done,--not by these, the mere victims, but by him who by
a triumph of policy thus sent forth his tempters to enclose them all within his net--above
all the persecuted Lady whom all true Catholics own as the only lawful sovereign within these
realms.  Such schemes, when they succeed, are termed policy.  My Lords, I confess that by the
justice of England we have been guilty of treason against Queen Elizabeth; but by the eternal
law of the justice of God, we have suffered treachery far exceeding that for which we are about
to die."

"I marvel that they let the fellow speak so far," was Cavendish's comment.

"Nay, but is it so?" asked Diccon with startled eyes.

"Hush! you have yet to learn statecraft," returned his friend.

His father's monitory hand only just saved the boy from bursting out with something that would
have rather astonished Westminster Hall, and caused him to be taken out by the ushers.  It
is not wonderful that no report of the priest's speech has been preserved.

The name of Antony Babington was then called.  Probably he had been too much absorbed in the
misery of his position to pay attention to the preceding speech, for his reply was quite independent
of it.  He prayed the Lords to believe, and to represent to her Majesty, that he had received
with horror the suggestion of compassing her death, and had only been brought to believe it
a terrible necessity by the persuasions of this Ballard.

On this Hatton broke forth in indignant compassion,--"O Ballard! Ballard! what hast thou done?

This apparently gave some hope to Babington, for he answered--"Yes, I protest that, before
I met this Ballard, I never meant nor intended for to kill the Queen; but by his persuasions
I was induced to believe that she being excommunicate it was lawful to murder her."

For the first time Ballard betrayed any pain.  "Yes, Mr. Babington," he said, "lay all the
blame upon me; but I wish the shedding of my blood might be the saving of your life.  Howbeit,
say what you will, I will say no more."

"He is the bravest of them all!" was Diccon's comment.

"Wot you that he was once our spy?" returned Cavendish with a sneer; while Sir Christopher,
with the satisfaction of a little nature in uttering reproaches, returned--"Nay, Ballard, you
must say more and shall say more, for you must not commit treasons and then huddle them up.
Is this your Religio Catholica?  Nay, rather it is Diabolica."

Ballard scorned to answer this, and the Clerk passed on to Savage, who retained his soldierly
fatalism, and only shook his head. Barnwell again denied any purpose of injuring the Queen,
and when Hatton spoke of his appearance in Richmond Park, he said all had been for conscience
sake.  So said Henry Donne, but with far more piety and dignity, adding, "fiat voluntas Dei;"
and Thomas Salisbury was the only one who made any entreaty for pardon.

Speeches followed from the Attorney-General, and from Sir Christopher Hatton, and then the
Lord Chief Justice Anderson pronounced the terrible sentence.

Richard Talbot sat with his head bowed between his hands.  His son had begun listening with
wide-stretched eyes and mouth, as boyhood hearkens to the dreadful, and with the hardness of
an unmerciful time, too apt to confound pity with weakness; but when his eye fell on the man
he had followed about as an elder playmate, and realised all it conveyed, his cheek blanched,
his jaw fell, and he hardly knew how his father got him out of the court.

There was clearly no hope.  The form of the trial was such as to leave no chance of escape
from the utmost penalty.  No witnesses had been examined, no degrees of guilt acknowledged,
no palliations admitted. Perhaps men who would have brought the Spanish havoc on their native
country, and have murdered their sovereign, were beyond the pale of compassion.  All London
clearly thought so; and yet, as Richard Talbot dwelt on their tones and looks, and remembered
how they had been deluded and tempted, and made to believe their deed meritorious, he could
not but feel exceeding pity for the four younger men.  Ballard, Savage, and Barnwell might
be justly doomed; even Babington had, by his own admission, entertained a fearfully evil design;
but the other three had evidently dipped far less deeply into the plot, and Tichborne had only
concealed it out of friendship. Yet the ruthless judgment condemned all alike!  And why?  To
justify a yet more cruel blow!  No wonder honest Richard Talbot felt sick at heart.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

IN THE TOWER.

"Here is a letter from Mr. Secretary to the Lieutenant of the Tower, Master Richard, bidding
him admit you to speech of Babington," said Will Cavendish.  "He was loath to give it, and
nothing but my Lord Shrewsbury's interest would have done it, on my oath that you are a prudent
and discreet man, who hath been conversant in these matters for many years."

"Yea, and that long before you were, Master Will," said Richard, always a little entertained
by the young gentleman's airs of patronage. "However, I am beholden to you."

"That you may be, for you are the only person who hath obtained admission to the prisoners."

"Not even their wives?"

"Mrs. Tichborne is in the country--so best for her--and Mrs. Babington hath never demanded
it.  I trow there is not love enough between them to make them seek such a meeting.  It was
one of my mother's matches. Mistress Cicely would have cleaved to him more closely, though
I am glad you saw through the fellow too well to give her to him.  She would be a landless
widow, whereas this Ratcliffe wife has a fair portion for her child."

"Then Dethick will be forfeited?"

"Ay.  They say the Queen hath promised it to Raleigh."

"And there is no hope of mercy?"

"Not a tittle for any man of them!  Nay, so far from it, her Majesty asked if there were no
worse nor more extraordinary mode of death for them."

"I should not have thought it of her."

"Her Majesty hath been affrighted, Master Richard, sorely affrighted, though she put so bold
a face upon it, and there is nothing a woman, who prides herself on her courage, can so little
pardon."

So Richard, sad at heart, took boat and ascended the Thames for his melancholy visit.  The
gateway was guarded by a stalwart yeoman, halbert in hand, who detained him while the officer
of the guard was called.  On showing the letter from Sir Francis Walsingham, Mr. Talbot was
conducted by this personage across the first paved court to the lodgings of the Lieutenant
under so close a guard that he felt as if he were about to be incarcerated himself, and was
there kept waiting in a sort of guard-room while the letter was delivered.

Presently the Lieutenant, Sir Owen Hopton, a well-bred courteous knight, appeared and saluted
him with apologies for his detention and all these precautions, saying that the orders were
to keep a close guard and to hinder all communication from without, so that nothing short of
this letter would have obtained entrance for the bearer, whom he further required to set down
his name and designation in full. Then, after asking how long the visitor wished to remain
with the prisoners--for Tichborne and Babington were quartered together--he called a warder
and committed Mr. Talbot to his guidance, to remain for two hours locked up in the cell.

"Sir," added Sir Owen, "it is superfluous to tell you that on coming out, you must either give
me your word of honour that you convey nothing from the prisoners, or else submit to be searched."

Richard smiled, and observed that men were wont to trust his word of honour, to which the knight
heartily replied that he was sure of it, and he then followed the warder up stone stairs and
along vaulted passages, where the clang of their footsteps made his heart sink. The prisoners
were in the White Tower, the central body of the grim building, and the warder, after unlocking
the door, announced, with no unnecessary rudeness, but rather as if he were glad of any comfort
to his charges, "Here, sirs, is a gentleman to visit you."

They had both risen at the sound of the key turning in the lock, and Antony Babington's face
lighted up as he exclaimed, "Mr. Talbot!  I knew you would come if it were possible."

"I come by my Lord's desire," replied Richard, the close wringing of his hand expressing feeling
to which he durst not give way in words.

He took in at the moment that the room, though stern and strong, was not squalid.  It was lighted
fully by a window, iron-barred, but not small, and according to custom, the prisoners had been
permitted to furnish, at their own expense, sufficient garniture for comfort, and as both were
wealthy men, they were fairly provided, and they were not fettered.  Both looked paler than
when Richard had seen them in Westminster Hall two days previously.  Antony was as usual neatly
arrayed, with well-trimmed hair and beard, but Tichborne's hung neglected, and there was a
hollow, haggard look about his eyes, as if of dismay at his approaching fate.  Neither was,
however, forgetful of courtesy, and as Babington presented Mr. Talbot to his friend, the greeting
and welcome would have befitted the halls of Dethick or Tichborne.

"Sirs," said the young man, with a sad smile irradiating for a moment the restless despair
of his countenance, "it is not by choice that I am an intruder on your privacy; I will abstract
myself so far as is possible."

"I have no secrets from my Chidiock," cried Babington.

"But Mr. Talbot may," replied his friend, "therefore I will only first inquire whether he can
tell us aught of the royal lady for whose sake we suffer.  They have asked us many questions,
but answered none."

Richard was able to reply that after the seclusion at Tixall she had been brought back to Chartley,
and there was no difference in the manner of her custody, moreover, that she had recovered
from her attack of illness, tidings he had just received in a letter from Humfrey.  He did
not feel it needful to inflict a pang on the men who were to die in two days' time by letting
them know that she was to be immediately brought to trial on the evidence extracted from them.
On hearing that her captivity was not straitened, both looked relieved, and Tichborne, thanking
him, lay down on his own bed, turned his face to the wall, and drew the covering over his head.

"Ah!" sighed Babington, "is there no hope for him--he who has done naught but guard too faithfully
my unhappy secret?  Is he to die for his faith and honour?"

"Alas, Antony! I am forbidden to give thee hope for any.  Of that we must not speak.  The time
is short enough for what needs to be spoken."

"I knew that there was none for myself," said Antony, "but for those whom--" There was a gesture
from Tichborne as if he could not bear this, and he went on, "Yea, there is a matter on which
I must needs speak to you, sir.  The young lady--where is she?"--he spoke earnestly, and lowering
his voice as he bent his head.

"She is still at Chartley."

"That is well.  But, sir, she must be guarded.  I fear me there is one who is aware of her
parentage."

"The Scottish archer?"

"No, the truth."

"You knew it?"

"Not when I made my suit to her, or I should never have dared to lift my eyes so far."

"I suppose your knowledge came from Langston," said Richard, more perturbed than amazed at
the disclosure.

"Even so.  Yet I am not certain whether he knows or only guesses; but at any rate be on your
guard for her sake.  He has proved himself so unspeakable a villain that none can guess what
he will do next.  He--he it is above all--yea, above even Gifford and Ballard, who has brought
us to this pass."

He was becoming fiercely agitated, but putting a force upon himself said, "Have patience, good
Mr. Talbot, of your kindness, and I will tell you all, that you may understand the coilings
of the serpent who led me hither, and if possible save her from them."

Antony then explained that so soon as he had become his own master he had followed the inclinations
which led him to the church of his mother and of Queen Mary, the two beings he had always regarded
with the most fervent affection and love.  His mother's kindred had brought him in contact
with the Roman Catholic priests who circulated in England, at the utmost peril of their lives,
to keep up the faith of the gentry, and in many cases to intrigue for Queen Mary.  Among these
plotters he fell in with Cuthbert Langston, a Jesuit of the third order, though not a priest,
and one of the most active agents in corresponding with Queen Mary.  His small stature, colourless
complexion, and insignificant features, rendered him almost a blank block, capable of assuming
any variety of disguise.  He also knew several languages, could imitate different dialects,
and counterfeit male and female voices so that very few could detect him.  He had soon made
himself known to Babington as the huckster Tibbott of days gone by, and had then disclosed
to him that Cicely was certainly not the daughter of her supposed parents, telling of her rescue
from the wreck, and hinting that her rank was exalted, and that he knew secrets respecting
her which he was about to make known to the Queen of Scots.  With this purpose among others,
Langston had adopted the disguise of the woman selling spars with the password "Beads and Bracelets,"
and being well known as an agent of correspondence to the suite of the captive Queen, he had
been able to direct Gorion's attention to the maiden, and to let him know that she was the
same with the infant who had been put on board the Bride of Dunbar at Dunbar.

How much more did Langston guess?  He had told Babington the story current among the outer
circle of Mary's followers of the maiden being the daughter of the Scotch archer, and had taught
him her true name, encouraging too, his aspirations towards her during the time of his courtship.
Babington believed Langston to have been at that time still a sincere partizan of Queen Mary,
but all along to have entertained a suspicion that there was a closer relationship between
Bride Hepburn and the Queen than was avowed, though to Babington himself he had only given
mysterious hints.

But towards the end of the captivity at Tutbury, he had made some further discovery, which
confirmed his suspicions, and had led to another attempt to accost Cicely, and to make the
Queen aware of his knowledge, perhaps in order to verify it, or it might be to gain power over
her, a reward for the introduction, or to extort bribes to secrecy.  For looking back, Antony
could now perceive that by this time a certain greed of lucre had set in upon the man, who
had obtained large sums of secret service money from himself; and avarice, together with the
rebuff he had received from the Queen, had doubtless rendered him accessible to the temptations
of the arch-plotters Gifford and Morgan.  Richard could believe this, for the knowledge had
been forced on him that there were an incredible number of intriguers at that time, spies and
conspirators, often in the pay of both parties, impartially betraying the one to the other,
and sometimes, through miscalculation, meeting the fate they richly deserved.  Many a man who
had begun enthusiastically to work in underground ways for what he thought the righteous cause,
became so enamoured of the undermining process, and the gold there to be picked up, that from
a wrong-headed partizan he became a traitor--often a double-faced one--and would work secretly
in the interest of whichever cause would pay him best.

Poor Babington had been far too youthfully simple to guess what he now perceived, that he had
been made the mere tool and instrument of these traitors.  He had been instructed in Gifford's
arrangement with the Burton brewer for conveying letters to Mary at Chartley, and had been
made the means of informing her of it by means of his interview with Cicely, when he had brought
the letter in the watch.  The letter had been conveyed to him by Langston, the watch had been
his own device. It was after this meeting, of which Richard now heard for the first time, that
Langston had fully told his belief respecting the true birth of Bride Hepburn, and assured
Babington that there was no hope of his wedding her, though the Queen might allow him to delude
himself with the idea of her favour in order to bind him to her service.

It was then that Babington consented to Lady Shrewsbury's new match with the well-endowed Eleanor
Ratcliffe.  If he could not have Cicely, he cared not whom he had.  He had been leading a wild
and extravagant life about town, when (as poor Tichborne afterwards said on the scaffold) the
flourishing estate of Babington and Tichborne was the talk of Fleet Street and the Strand,
and he had also many calls for secret service money, so that all his thought was to have more
to spend in the service of Queen Mary and her daughter.

"Oh, sir!  I have been as one distraught all this past year," he said. "How often since I have
been shut up here, and I have seen how I have been duped and gulled, have your words come back
to me, that to enter on crooked ways was the way to destruction for myself and others, and
that I might only be serving worse men than myself!  And yet they were priests who misled me!"

"Even in your own religion there are many priests who would withhold you from such crimes,"
said Richard.

"There are!  I know it!  I have spoken with them.  They say no priest can put aside the eternal
laws of God's justice.  So these others, Chidiock here, Donne and Salisbury, always cried out
against the slaying of the Queen, though--wretch that I was--and gulled by Ballard and Savage,
I deemed the exploit so noble and praiseworthy that I even joined Tichborne with me in that
accursed portraiture! Yea, you may well deem me mad, but it was Gifford who encouraged me in
having it made, no doubt to assure our ruin.  Oh, Mr. Talbot! was ever man so cruelly deceived
as me?"

"It is only too true, Antony.  My heart is full of rage and indignation when I think thereof.
And yet, my poor lad, what concerns thee most is to lay aside all such thoughts as may not
tend to repentance before God."

"I know it, I know it, sir.  All the more that we shall die without the last sacraments.  Commend
us to the prayers of our Queen, sir, and of her.  But to proceed with what imports you to know
for her sake, while I have space to speak."

He proceeded to tell how, between dissipation and intrigue, he had lived in a perpetual state
of excitement, going backwards and forwards between London and Lichfield to attend to the correspondence
with Queen Mary and the Spanish ambassador in France, and to arrange the details of the plot;
always being worked up to the highest pitch by Gifford and Ballard, while Langston continued
to be the great assistant in all the correspondence.  All the time Sir Francis Walsingham,
who was really aware of all, if not the prime mover in the intrigue, appeared perfectly unsuspicious;
often received Babington at his house, and discussed a plan of sending him on a commission
to France, while in point of fact every letter that travelled in the Burton barrels was deciphered
by Phillipps, and laid before the Secretary before being read by the proper owners.  In none
of these, however, as Babington could assure Mr. Talbot, had Cicely been mentioned,--the only
danger to her was through Langston.

Things had come to a climax in July, when Babington had been urged to obtain from Mary such
definite approbation of his plans as might satisfy his confederates, and had in consequence
written the letter and obtained the answer, copies of which had been read to him at his private
examination, and which certainly contained fatal matter to both him and the Queen.

They had no doubt been called forth with that intent, and a doubt had begun to arise in the
victim's mind whether the last reply had been really the Queen's own.  It had been delivered
to him in the street, not by the usual channel, but by a blue-coated serving-man.  Two or three
days later Humfrey had told him of Langston's interview with Walsingham, which he had at the
time laughed to scorn, thinking himself able to penetrate any disguise of that Proteus, and
likewise believing that he was blinding Walsingham.

He first took alarm a few days after Humfrey's departure, and wrote to Queen Mary to warn her,
convinced that the traitor must be Langston. Ballard became himself suspected, and after lurking
about in various disguises was arrested in Babington's own lodgings.  To disarm suspicion,
Antony went to Walsingham to talk about the French Mission, and tried to resume his usual habits,
but in a tavern, he became aware that Langston, under some fresh shape, was watching him, and
hastily throwing down the reckoning, he fled without his cloak or sword to Gage's house at
Westminster, where he took horse, hid himself in St. John's Wood, and finally was taken, half
starved, in an outhouse at Harrow, belonging to a farmer, whose mercy involved him in the like
doom.

This was the substance of the story told by the unfortunate young man to Richard Talbot, whom
he owned as the best and wisest friend he had ever had--going back to the warnings twice given,
that no cause is served by departing from the right; no kingdom safely won by worshipping the
devil: "And sure I did worship him when I let myself be led by Gifford," he said.

His chief anxiety was not for his wife and her child, who he said would be well taken care
of by the Ratcliffe family, and who, alas! had never won his heart.  In fact he was relieved
that he was not permitted to see the young thing, even had she wished it; it could do no good
to either of them, though he had written a letter, which she was to deliver, for the Queen,
commending her to her Majesty's mercy.

His love had been for Cicely, and even that had never been, as Richard saw, such purifying,
restraining, self-sacrificing affection as was Humfrey's.  It was half romance, half a sort
of offshoot from his one great and absorbing passion of devotion to the Queen of Scots, which
was still as strong as ever.  He entrusted Richard with his humblest commendations to her,
and strove to rest in the belief that as many a conspirator before--such as Norfolk, Throckmorton,
Parry--had perished on her behalf while she remained untouched, that so it might again be,
since surely, if she were to be tried, he would have been kept alive as a witness.  The peculiar
custom of the time in State prosecutions of hanging the witnesses before the trial had not
occurred to him.

But how would it be with Cicely?  "Is what this fellow guessed the very truth?" he asked.

Richard made a sign of affirmation, saying, "Is it only a guess on his part?"

Babington believed the man stopped short of absolute certainty, though he had declared himself
to have reason to believe that a child must have been born to the captive queen at Lochleven;
and if so, where else could she be?  Was he waiting for clear proof to make the secret known
to the Council?  Did he intend to make profit of it and obtain in the poor girl a subject for
further intrigue?  Was he withheld by consideration for Richard Talbot, for whom Babington
declared that if such a villain could be believed in any respect, he had much family regard
and deep gratitude, since Richard had stood his friend when all his family had cast him off
in much resentment at his change of purpose and opinion.

At any rate he had in his power Cicely's welfare and liberty, if not the lives of her adopted
parents, since in the present juncture of affairs, and of universal suspicion, the concealment
of the existence of one who stood so near the throne might easily be represented as high treason.
Where was he?

No one knew.  For appearance sake, Gifford had fled beyond seas, happily only to fall into
a prison of the Duke of Guise: and they must hope that Langston might have followed the same
course. Meantime, Richard could but go on as before, Cicely being now in her own mother's hands.
The avowal of her identity must remain for the present as might be determined by her who had
the right to decide.

"I would I could feel hope for any I leave behind me," said poor Antony.  "I trow you will
not bear the maiden my message, for you will deem it a sin that I have loved her, and only
her, to the last, though I have been false to that love as to all else beside.  Tell Humfrey
how I long that I had been like him, though he too must love on without hope."

He sent warm greetings to good Mistress Susan Talbot and craved her prayers.  He had one other
care, namely to commend to Mr. Talbot an old body servant, Harry Gillingham by name, who had
attended on him in his boyhood at Sheffield, and had been with him all his life, being admitted
even now, under supervision from the warders, to wait on him when dressing and at his meals.
The poor man was broken-hearted, and so near desperation that his master wished much to get
him out of London before the execution.  So, as Mr. Talbot meant to sail for Hull by the next
day's tide in the Mastiff, he promised to take the poor fellow with him back to Bridgefield.

All this had taken much time.  Antony did not seem disposed to go farther into his own feelings
in the brief space that remained, but he took up a paper from the table, and indicating Tichborne,
who still affected sleep, he asked whether it was fit that a man, who could write thus, should
die for a plot against which he had always protested.

Little used to poetry, these lines made the good man's eyes fill with tears as he looked at
the two goodly young men about to be cut off so early--one indeed guilty, but the victim of
an iniquitous act of deliberate treachery.

He asked if Mr. Tichborne wished to entrust to him aught that could be done by word of mouth,
and a few commissions were given to him. Then Antony bethought him of thanks to Lord and Lady
Shrewsbury for all they had done for him, and above all for sending Mr. Talbot; and a message
to ask pardon for having so belied the loyal education they had given him.  The divided religion
of the country had been his bane: his mother's charge secretly to follow her faith had been
the beginning, and then had followed the charms of stratagem on behalf of Queen Mary.

Perhaps, after all, his death, as a repentant man still single minded, saved him from lapsing
into the double vileness of the veteran intriguers whose prey he had been.

"I commend me to the Mercy Master Who sees my heart," he said.

Herewith the warder returned, and at his request summoned Gillingham, a sturdy grizzled fellow,
looking grim with grief.  Babington told him of the arrangement made, and that he was to leave
London early in the morning with Mr. Talbot, but the man immediately dropped on his knees and
swore a solemn oath that nothing should induce him to leave the place while his master breathed.

"Thou foolish knave," said Antony, "thou canst do me no good, and wilt but make thyself a more
piteous wretch than thou art already. Why, 'tis for love of thee that I would have thee spared
the sight."

"Am I a babe to be spared?" growled the man.  And all that he could be induced to promise was
that he would repair to Bridgefield as soon as all was over--"Unless," said he, "I meet one
of those accursed rogues, and then a halter would be sweet, if I had first had my will of them."

"Hush, Harry, or Master Warder will be locking thee up next," said Antony.

And then came the farewell.  It was at last a long, speechless, sorrowful embrace; and then
Antony, slipping from it to his knees, said--"Bless me!  Oh bless me: thou who hast been mine
only true friend.  Bless me as a father!"

"May God in Heaven bless thee!" said Richard, solemnly laying his hand on his head.  "May He,
Who knoweth how thou hast been led astray, pardon thee!  May He, Who hath felt the agonies
and shame of the Cross, redeem thee, and suffer thee not for any pains of death to fall from Him!"

He was glad to hear afterwards, when broken-hearted Gillingham joined him, that the last words
heard from Antony Babington's lips were--"Parce mihi, Domine JESU!"

CHAPTER XXXIV.

FOTHERINGHAY.

"Is this my last journey?" said Queen Mary, with a strange, sad smile, as she took her seat
in the heavy lumbering coach which had been appointed for her conveyance from Chartley, her
rheumatism having set in too severely to permit her to ride.

"Say not so; your Grace has weathered many a storm before," said Marie de Courcelles.  "This
one will also pass over."

"Ah, my good Marie, never before have I felt this foreboding and sinking of the heart.  I have
always hoped before, but I have exhausted the casket of Pandora.  Even hope is flown!"

Jean Kennedy tried to say something of "Darkest before dawn."

"The dawn, it may be, of the eternal day," said the Queen.  "Nay, my friends, the most welcome
tidings that could greet me would be that my weary bondage was over for ever, and that I should
wreck no more gallant hearts.  What, mignonne, art thou weeping?  There will be freedom again
for thee when that day comes."

"O madam, I want not freedom at such a price!"  And yet Cicely had never recovered her looks
since those seventeen days at Tickhill. She still looked white and thin, and her dark eyebrows
lay in a heavy line, seldom lifted by the merry looks and smiles that used to flash over her
face.  Life had begun to press its weight upon her, and day after day, as Humfrey watched her
across the chapel, and exchanged a word or two with her while crossing the yard, had he grieved
at her altered mien; and vexed himself with wondering whether she had after all loved Babington,
and were mourning for him.

Truly, even without the passion of love, there had been much to shock and appal a young heart
in the fate of the playfellow of her childhood, the suitor of her youth.  It was the first
death among those she had known intimately, and even her small knowledge of the cause made
her feel miserable and almost guilty, for had not poor Antony plotted for her mother, and had
not she been held out to him as a delusive inducement?  Moreover, she felt the burden of a
deep, pitying love and admiration not wholly joined with perfect trust and reliance.  She had
been from the first startled by untruths and concealments.  There was mystery all round her,
and the future was dark.  There were terrible forebodings for her mother; and if she looked
beyond for herself, only uncertainty and fear of being commanded to follow Marie de Courcelles
to a foreign court, perhaps to a convent; while she yearned with an almost sick longing for
home and kind Mrs. Talbot's motherly tenderness and trustworthiness, and the very renunciation
of Humfrey that she had spoken so easily, had made her aware of his full worth, and wakened
in her a longing for the right to rest on his stout arm and faithful heart.  To look across
at him and know him near often seemed her best support, and was she to be cut off from him
for ever?  The devotions of the Queen, though she had been deprived of her almoner had been
much increased of late as one preparing for death; and with them were associated all her household
of the Roman Catholic faith, leaving out Cicely and the two Mrs. Curlls.  The long oft-repeated
Latin orisons, such as the penitential Psalms, would certainly have been wearisome to the girl,
but it gave her a pang to be pointedly excluded as one who had no part nor lot with her mother.
Perhaps this was done by calculation, in order to incline her to embrace her mother's faith;
and the time was not spent very pleasantly, as she had nothing but needlework to occupy her,
and no society save that of the sisters Curll.  Barbara's spirits were greatly depressed by
the loss of her infant and anxiety for her husband.  His evidence might be life or death to
the Queen, and his betrayal of her confidence, or his being tortured for his fidelity, were
terrible alternatives for his wife's imagination.  It was hard to say whether she were more
sorry or glad when, on leaving Chartley, she was forbidden to continue her attendance on the
Queen, and set free to follow him to London.  The poor lady knew nothing, and dreaded everything.
She could not help discussing her anxieties when alone with Cicely, thus rendering perceptible
more and more of the ramifications of plot and intrigue--past and present--at which she herself
only guessed a part.  Assuredly the finding herself a princess, and sharing the captivity of
a queen, had not proved so like a chapter of the Morte d'Arthur as it had seemed to Cicely
at Buxton.

It was as unlike as was riding a white palfrey through a forest, guided by knights in armour,
to the being packed with all the ladies into a heavy jolting conveyance, guarded before and
behind by armed servants and yeomen, among whom Humfrey's form could only now and then be detected.

The Queen had chosen her seat where she could best look out from the scant amount of window.
She gazed at the harvest-fields full of sheaves, the orchards laden with ruddy apples, the
trees assuming their autumn tints, with lingering eyes, as of one who foreboded that these
sights of earth were passing from her.

Two nights were spent on the road, one at Leicester; and on the fourth day, the captain in
charge of the castle for the governor Sir William Fitzwilliam, who had come to escort and receive
her, came to the carriage window and bade her look up.  "This is Periho Lane," he said, "whence
your Grace may have the first sight of the poor house which is to have the honour of receiving
you."

"Perio! I perish," repeated Mary; "an ominous road."

The place showed itself to be of immense strength.  The hollow sound caused by rolling over
a drawbridge was twice heard, and the carriage crossed two courts before stopping at the foot
of a broad flight of stone steps, where stood Sir William Fitzwilliam and Sir Amias Paulett
ready to hand out the Queen.

A few stone steps were mounted, then an enormous hall had to be traversed.  The little procession
had formed in pairs, and Humfrey was able to give his hand to Cicely and walk with her along
the vast space, on which many windows emblazoned with coats of arms shed their light--the western
ones full of the bright September sunshine.  One of these, emblazoned with the royal shield
in crimson mantlings, cast a blood-red stain on the white stone pavement.  Mary, who was walking
first, holding by the arm of Sir Andrew Melville, paused, shuddered, pointed, and said, "See,
Andrew, there will my blood be shed."

"Madam, madam! speak not thus.  By the help of the saints you will yet win through your troubles."

"Ay, Andrew, but only by one fate;" and she looked upwards.

Her faithful followers could not but notice that there was no eager assurance that no ill was
intended her, such as they had often heard from Shrewsbury and Sadler.

Cicely looked at Humfrey with widely-opened eyes, and the half-breathed question, "What does
it mean?"

He shook his head gravely and said, "I cannot tell," but he could not keep his manner from
betraying that he expected the worst.

Meanwhile Mary was conducted on to her apartments, up a stair as usual, and forming another
side of the inner court at right angles to the Hall.  There was no reason to complain of these,
Mary's furniture having as usual been sent forward with her inferior servants, and arranged
by them.  She was weary, and sat down at once on her chair, and as soon as Paulett had gone
through his usual formalities with even more than his wonted stiffness, and had left her, she
said, "I see what we are come here for.  It is that yonder hall may be the place of my death."

Cheering assurances and deprecations of evil augury were poured on her, but she put them aside,
saying, "Nay, my friends, trow you not that I rejoice in the close of my weary captivity?"

She resumed her usual habits very calmly, as far as her increased rheumatism would permit,
and showed anxiety that a large piece of embroidery should be completed, and thus about a fortnight
passed. Then came the first token of the future.  Sir Amias Paulett, Sir Walter Mildmay, and
a notary, sought her presence and presented her with a letter from Queen Elizabeth, informing
her that there were heavy accusations against her, and that as she was residing under the protection
of the laws of England, she must be tried by those laws, and must make answer to the commissioners
appointed for the purpose. Mary put on all her queenly dignity, and declared that she would
never condescend to answer as a subject of the Queen of England, but would only consent to
refer their differences to a tribunal of foreign princes.  As to her being under the protection
of English law, she had come to England of her own free will, and had been kept there a prisoner
ever since, so that she did not consider herself protected by the law of England.

Meanwhile fresh noblemen commissioned to sit on the trial arrived day by day.  There was trampling
of horses and jingling of equipments, and the captive suite daily heard reports of fresh arrivals,
and saw glimpses of new colours and badges flitting across the court, while conferences were
held with Mary in the hope of inducing her to submit to the English jurisdiction.  She was
sorely perplexed, seeing as she did that to persist in her absolute refusal to be bound by
English law would be prejudicial to her claim to the English crown, and being also assured
by Burghley that if she refused to plead the trial would still take place, and she would be
sentenced in her absence.  Her spirit rose at this threat, and she answered disdainfully, but
it worked with her none the less when the treasurer had left her.

"Oh," she cried that night, "would but Elizabeth be content to let me resign my rights to my
son, making them secure to him, and then let me retire to some convent in Lorraine, or in Germany,
or wherever she would, so would I never trouble her more!"

"Will you not write this to her?" asked Cicely.

"What would be the use of it, child?  They would tamper with the letter, pledging me to what
I never would undertake.  I know how they can cut and garble, add and take away!  Never have
they let me see or speak to her as woman to woman.  All I have said or done has been coloured."

"Mother, I would that I could go to her; Humfrey has seen and spoken to her, why should not I?"

"Thou, poor silly maid!  They would drive Cis Talbot away with scorn, and as to Bride Hepburn,
why, she would but run into all her mother's dangers."

"It might be done, and if so I will do it," said Cicely, clasping her hands together.

"No, child, say no more.  My worn-out old life is not worth the risk of thy young freedom.
But I love thee for it, mine ain bairnie, mon enfant a moi.  If thy brother had thy spirit,
child--"

"I hate the thought of him!  Call him not my brother!" cried Cicely hotly.  "If he were worth
one brass farthing he would have unfurled the Scottish lion long ago, and ridden across the
Border to deliver his mother."

"And how many do you think would have followed that same lion?" said Mary, sadly.

"Then he should have come alone with his good horse and his good sword!"

"To lose both crowns, if not life!  No, no, lassie; he is a pawky chiel, as they say in the
north, and cares not to risk aught for the mother he hath never seen, and of whom he hath been
taught to believe strange tales."

The more the Queen said in excuse for the indifference of her son, the stronger was the purpose
that grew up in the heart of the daughter, while fresh commissioners arrived every day, and
further conversations were held with the Queen.  Lord Shrewsbury was known to be summoned,
and Cicely spent half her time in watching for some well-known face, in the hope that he might
bring her good foster-father in his train.  More than once she declared that she saw a cap
or sleeve with the well-beloved silver dog, when it turned out to be a wyvern or the royal
lion himself.  Queen Mary even laughed at her for thinking her mastiff had gone on his hind
legs when she once even imagined him in the Warwick Bear and ragged staff.

At last, however, all unexpectedly, while the Queen was in conference with Hatton, there came
a message by the steward of the household, that Master Richard Talbot had arrived, and that
permission had been granted by Sir Amias for him to speak with Mistress Cicely.  She sprang
up joyously, but Mrs. Kennedy demurred.

"Set him up!" quoth she.  "My certie, things are come to a pretty pass that any one's permission
save her Majesty's should be speired for one of her women, and I wonder that you, my mistress,
should be the last to think of her honour!"

"O Mrs. Kennedy, dear Mrs. Jean," entreated Cicely, "hinder me not. If I wait till I can ask
her, I may lose my sole hope of speaking with him.  I know she would not be displeased, and
it imports, indeed it imports."

"Come, Mrs. Kennett," said the steward, who by no means shared his master's sourness, "if it
were a young gallant that craved to see thy fair mistress, I could see why you should doubt,
but being her father and brother, there can surely be no objection."

"The young lady knows what I mean," said the old gentlewoman with great dignity, "but if she
will answer it to the Queen--"

"I will, I will," cried Cicely, whose colour had risen with eagerness, and she was immediately
marshalled by the steward beyond the door that closed in the royal captive's suite of apartments
to a gallery.  At the door of communication three yeomen were always placed under an officer.
Humfrey was one of those who took turns to command this guard, but he was not now on duty.
He was, however, standing beside his father awaiting Cicely's coming.

Eagerly she moved up to Master Richard, bent her knee for his blessing, and raised her face
for his paternal kiss with the same fond gladness as if she had been his daughter in truth.
He took one hand, and Humfrey the other, and they followed the steward, who had promised to
procure them a private interview, so difficult a matter, in the fulness of the castle, that
he had no place to offer them save the deep embrasure of a great oriel window at the end of
the gallery. They would be seen there, but there was no fear of their being heard without their
own consent, and till the chapel bell rang for evening prayers and sermon there would be no
interruption.  And as Cicely found herself seated between Master Richard and the window, with
Humfrey opposite, she was sensible of a repose and bien etre she had not felt since she quitted
Bridgefield.  She had already heard on the way that all was well there, and that my Lord was
not come, though named in the commission as being Earl Marshal of England, sending his kinsman
of Bridgefield in his stead with letters of excuse.

"In sooth he cannot bear to come and sit in judgment on one he hath known so long and closely,"
said Richard; "but he hath bidden me to come hither and remain so as to bring him a full report
of all."

"How doth my Lady Countess take that?" asked Humfrey.

"I question whether the Countess would let him go if he wished it. She is altogether changed
in mind, and come round to her first love for this Lady, declaring that it is all her Lord's
fault that the custody was taken from them, and that she could and would have hindered all this."

"That may be so," said Humfrey.  "If all be true that is whispered, there have been dealings
which would not have been possible at Sheffield."

"So it may be.  In any wise my Lady is bitterly grieved, and they send for thy mother every
second day to pacify her."

"Dear mother!" murmured Cis; "when shall I see her again?"

"I would that she had thee for a little space, my wench," said Richard; "thou hast lost thy
round ruddy cheeks.  Hast been sick?"

"Nay, sir, save as we all are--sick at heart!  But all seems well now you are here.  Tell me
of little Ned.  Is he as good scholar as ever?"

"Verily he is.  We intend by God's blessing to bring him up for the ministry.  I hope in another
year to take him to Cambridge.  Thy mother is knitting his hosen of gray and black already."

Other questions and answers followed about Bridgefield tidings, which still evidently touched
Cicely as closely as if she had been a born Talbot.  There was a kind of rest in dwelling on
these before coming to the sadder, more pressing concern of her other life.  It was not till
the slow striking of the Castle clock warned them that they had less than an hour to spend
together that they came to closer matters, and Richard transferred to Cicely those last sad
messages to her Queen, which he had undertaken for Babington and Tichborne.

"The Queen hath shed many tears for them," she said, "and hath writ to the French and Spanish
ambassadors to have masses said for them. Poor Antony!  Did he send no word to me, dear father?"

The man being dead, Mr. Talbot saw no objection to telling her how he had said he had never
loved any other, though he had been false to that love.

"Ah, poor Antony!" said Cis, with her grave simplicity.  "But it would not have been right
for me to be a hindrance to the marriage of one who could never have me."

"While he loved you it would," said Humfrey hastily.  "Yea," as she lifted up her eyes to him,
"it would so, as my father will tell you, because he could not truly love that other woman."

Richard smiled sadly, and could not but assent to his son's honest truth and faith.

"Then," said Cis, with the same straightforwardness, sprung of their old fraternal intercourse,
"you must quit all love for me save a brother's, Humfrey; for my Queen mother made me give
her my word on my duty never to wed you."

"I know," returned Humfrey calmly.  "I have known all that these two years; but what has that
to do with my love?"

"Come, come, children," said Richard, hardening himself though his eyes were moist; "I did
not come here to hear you two discourse like the folks in a pastoral!  We may not waste time.
Tell me, child, if thou be not forbidden, hath she any purpose for thee?"

"O sir, I fear that what she would most desire is to bestow me abroad with some of her kindred
of Lorraine.  But I mean to strive hard against it, and pray her earnestly.  And, father, I
have one great purpose.  She saith that these cruel statesmen, who are all below in this castle,
have hindered Queen Elizabeth from ever truly hearing and knowing all, and from speaking with
her as woman to woman. Father, I will go to London, I will make my way to the Queen, and when
she hears who I am--of her own blood and kindred--she must listen to me; and I will tell her
what my mother Queen really is, and how cruelly she has been played upon, and entreat of her
to see her face to face and talk with her, and judge whether she can have done all she is accused
of."

"Thou art a brave maiden, Cis," exclaimed Humfrey with deep feeling.

"Will you take me, sir?" said Cicely, looking up to Master Richard.

"Child, I cannot say at once.  It is a perilous purpose, and requires much to be thought over."

"But you will aid me?" she said earnestly.

"If it be thy duty, woe be to me if I gainsay thee," said Richard; "but there is no need to
decide as yet.  We must await the issue of this trial, if the trial ever take place."

"Will Cavendish saith," put in Humfrey, "that a trial there will be of some sort, whether the
Lady consent to plead or not."

"Until that is ended we can do nothing," said his father.  "Meantime, Cicely child, we shall
be here at hand, and be sure that I will not be slack to aid thee in what may be thy duty as
a daughter.  So rest thee in that, my wench, and pray that we may be led to know the right."

And Richard spoke as a man of high moral courage in making this promise, well knowing that
it might involve himself in great danger. The worst that could befall Cicely might be imprisonment,
and a life of constraint, jealously watched; but his own long concealment of her birth might
easily be construed into treason, and the horrible consequences of such an accusation were
only too fresh in his memory. Yet, as he said afterwards to his son, "There was no forbidding
the maiden to do her utmost for her own mother, neither was there any letting her run the risk
alone."

To which Humfrey heartily responded.

"The Queen may forbid her, or the purpose may pass away," added Richard, "or it may be clearly
useless and impossible to make the attempt; but I cannot as a Christian man strive to dissuade
her from doing what she can.  And as thou saidst, Humfrey, she is changed. She hath borne her
modestly and discreetly, ay and truly, through all.  The childishness is gone out of her, and
I mark no lightness of purpose in her."

On that afternoon Queen Mary announced that she had yielded to Hatton's representations so
far as to consent to appear before the Commissioners, provided her protest against the proceedings
were put on record.

"Nay, blame me not, good Melville," she said. "I am wearied out with their arguments.  What
matters it how they do the deed on which they are bent?  It was an ill thing when King Harry
the Eighth brought in this fashion of forcing the law to give a colour to his will!  In the
good old times, the blow came without being first baited by one and another, and made a spectacle
to all men, in the name of justice, forsooth!"

Mary Seaton faltered something of her Majesty's innocence shining out like the light of day.

"Flatter not thyself so far, ma mie," said Mary.  "Were mine innocence clearer than the sun
they would blacken it.  All that can come of this same trial is that I may speak to posterity,
if they stifle my voice here, and so be known to have died a martyr to my faith.  Get we to
our prayers, girls, rather than feed on vain hopes. De profundis clamavi."

CHAPTER XXXV.

BEFORE THE COMMISSIONERS.

Who would be permitted to witness the trial?  As small matters at hand eclipse great matters
farther off, this formed the immediate excitement in Queen Mary's little household, when it
was disclosed that she was to appear only attended by Sir Andrew Melville and her two Maries
before her judges.

The vast hall had space enough on the ground for numerous spectators, and a small gallery intended
for musicians was granted, with some reluctance, to the ladies and gentlemen of the suite,
who, as Sir Amias Paulett observed, could do no hurt, if secluded there.  Thither then they
proceeded, and to Cicely's no small delight, found Humfrey awaiting them there, partly as a
guard, partly as a master of the ceremonies, ready to explain the arrangements, and tell the
names of the personages who appeared in sight.

"There," said he, "close below us, where you cannot see it, is the chair with a cloth of state
over it."

"For our Queen?" asked Jean Kennedy.

"No, madam. It is there to represent the Majesty of Queen Elizabeth. That other chair, half-way
down the hall, with the canopy from the beam over it, is for the Queen of Scots."

Jean Kennedy sniffed the air a little at this, but her attention was directed to the gentlemen
who began to fill the seats on either side. Some of them had before had interviews with Queen
Mary, and thus were known by sight to her own attendants; some had been seen by Humfrey during
his visit to London; and even now at a great distance, and a different table, he had been taking
his meals with them at the present juncture.

The seats were long benches against the wall, for the Earls on one side, the Barons on the
other.  The Lord Chancellor Bromley, in his red and white gown, and Burghley, the Lord Treasurer,
with long white beard and hard impenetrable face, sat with them.

"That a man should have such a beard, and yet dare to speak to the Queen as he did two days
ago," whispered Cis.

"See," said Mrs. Kennedy, "who is that burly figure with the black eyes and grizzled beard?"

"That, madam," said Humfrey, "is the Earl of Warwick."

"The brother of the minion Leicester?" said Jean Kennedy.  "He hath scant show of his comeliness."

"Nay; they say he is become the best favoured," said Humfrey; "my Lord of Leicester being grown
heavy and red-faced.  He is away in the Netherlands, or you might judge of him."

"And who," asked the lady, "may be yon, with the strangely-plumed hat and long, yellow hair,
like a half-tamed Borderer?"

"He?" said Humfrey.  "He is my Lord of Cumberland.  I marvelled to see him back so soon.  He
is here, there, and everywhere; and when I was in London was commanding a fleet bearing victuals
to relieve the Dutch in Helvoetsluys.  Had I not other work in hand, I would gladly sail with
him, though there be something fantastic in his humour. But here come the Knights of the Privy
Council, who are to my mind more noteworthy than the Earls."

The seats of these knights were placed a little below and beyond those of the noblemen.  The
courteous Sir Ralf Sadler looked up and saluted the ladies in the gallery as he entered.  "He
was always kindly," said Jean Kennedy, as she returned the bow.  "I am glad to see him here."

"But oh, Humfrey!" cried Cicely, "who is yonder, with the short cloak standing on end with
pearls, and the quilted satin waistcoat, jewelled ears, and frizzed head?  He looks fitter
to lead off a dance than a trial."

"He is Sir Christopher Hatton, her Majesty's Vice-Chamberlain," replied Humfrey.

"Who, if rumour saith true, made his fortune by a galliard," said Dr. Bourgoin.

"Here is a contrast to him," said Jean Kennedy.  "See that figure, as puritanical as Sir Amias
himself, with the long face, scant beard, black skull-cap, and plain crimped ruff.  His visage
is pulled into so solemn a length that were we at home in Edinburgh, I should expect to see
him ascend a pulpit, and deliver a screed to us all on the iniquities of dancing and playing
on the lute!"

"That, madam," said Humfrey, "is Mr. Secretary, Sir Francis Walsingham."

Here Elizabeth Curll leant forward, looked, and shivered a little. "Ah, Master Humfrey, is
it in that man's power that my poor brother lies?"

"'Tis true, madam," said Humfrey, "but indeed you need not fear.  I heard from Will Cavendish
last night that Mr. Curll is well.  They have not touched either of the Secretaries to hurt
them, and if aught have been avowed, it was by Monsieur Nau, and that on the mere threat. 
Do you see old Will yonder, Cicely, just within Mr. Secretary's call--with the poke of papers
and the tablet?"

"Is that Will Cavendish?  How precise and stiff he hath grown, and why doth he not look up
and greet us?  He knoweth us far better than doth Sir Ralf Sadler; doth he not know we are here?"

"Ay, Mistress Cicely," said Dr. Bourgoin from behind, "but the young gentleman has his fortune
to make, and knows better than to look on the seamy side of Court favour."

"Ah! see those scarlet robes," here exclaimed Cis.  "Are they the judges, Humfrey?"

"Ay, the two Chief-Justices and the Chief Baron of the Exchequer. There they sit in front of
the Earls, and three more judges in front of the Barons."

"And there are more red robes at that little table in front, besides the black ones."

"Those are Doctors of Law, and those in black with coifs are the Attorney and Solicitor General.
The rest are clerks and writers and the like."

"It is a mighty and fearful array," said Cicely with a long breath.

"A mighty comedy wherewith to mock at justice," said Jean.

"Prudence, madam, and caution," suggested Dr. Bourgoin.  "And hush!"

A crier here shouted aloud, "Oyez, oyez, oyez!  Mary, Queen of Scotland and Dowager of France,
come into the Court!"

Then from a door in the centre, leaning on Sir Andrew Melville's arm, came forward the Queen,
in a black velvet dress, her long transparent veil hanging over it from her cap, and followed
by the two Maries, one carrying a crimson velvet folding-chair, and the other a footstool.
She turned at first towards the throne, but she was motioned aside, and made to perceive that
her place was not there. She drew her slender figure up with offended dignity.  "I am a queen,"
she said; "I married a king of France, and my seat ought to be there."

However, with this protest she passed on to her appointed place, looking sadly round at the
assembled judges and lawyers.

"Alas!" she said, "so many counsellors, and not one for me."

Were there any Englishmen there besides Richard Talbot and his son who felt the pathos of this
appeal?  One defenceless woman against an array of the legal force of the whole kingdom.  It
may be feared that the feelings of most were as if they had at last secured some wild, noxious,
and incomprehensible animal in their net, on whose struggles they looked with the unpitying
eye of the hunter.

The Lord Chancellor began by declaring that the Queen of England convened the Court as a duty
in one who might not bear the sword in vain, to examine into the practices against her own
life, giving the Queen of Scots the opportunity of clearing herself.

At the desire of Burghley, the commission was read by the Clerk of the Court, and Mary then
made her public protest against its legality, or power over her.

It was a wonderful thing, as those spectators in the gallery felt, to see how brave and how
acute was the defence of that solitary lady, seated there with all those learned men against
her; her papers gone, nothing left to her but her brain and her tongue.  No loss of dignity
nor of gentleness was shown in her replies; they were always simple and direct.  The difficulty
for her was all the greater that she had not been allowed to know the form of the accusation,
before it was hurled against her in full force by Mr. Serjeant Gawdy, who detailed the whole
of the conspiracy of Ballard and Babington in all its branches, and declared her to have known
and approved of it, and to have suggested the manner of executing it.

Breathlessly did Cicely listen as the Queen rose up.  Humfrey watched her almost more closely
than the royal prisoner.  When there was a denial of all knowledge or intercourse with Ballard
or Babington, Jean Kennedy's hard-lined face never faltered; but Cicely's brows came together
in concern at the mention of the last name, and did not clear as the Queen explained that though
many Catholics might indeed write to her with offers of service, she could have no knowledge
of anything they might attempt.  To confute this, extracts from their confessions were read,
and likewise that letter of Babington's which he had written to her detailing his plans, and
that lengthy answer, brought by the blue-coated serving-man, in which the mode of carrying
her off from Chartley was suggested, and which had the postscript desiring to know the names
of the six who were to remove the usurping competitor.

The Queen denied this letter flatly, declaring that it might have been written with her alphabet
of ciphers, but was certainly none of hers. "There may have been designs against the Queen
and for procuring my liberty," she said, "but I, shut up in close prison, was not aware of
them, and how can I be made to answer for them?  Only lately did I receive a letter asking
my pardon if schemes were made on my behalf without my privity, nor can anything be easier
than to counterfeit a cipher, as was lately proved by a young man in France. Verily, I greatly
fear that if these same letters were traced to their deviser, it would prove to be the one
who is sitting here. Think you," she added, turning to Walsingham, "think you, Mr. Secretary,
that I am ignorant of your devices used so craftily against me?  Your spies surrounded me on
every side, but you know not, perhaps, that some of your spies have been false and brought
intelligence to me.  And if such have been his dealings, my Lords," she said, appealing to
the judges and peers, "how can I be assured that he hath not counterfeited my ciphers to bring
me to my death? Hath he not already practised against my life and that of my son?"

Walsingham rose in his place, and lifting up his hands and eyes declared, "I call God to record
that as a private person I have done nothing unbeseeming an honest man, nor as a public person
have I done anything to dishonour my place."

Somewhat ironically Mary admitted this disavowal, and after some unimportant discussion, the
Court adjourned until the next day, it being already late, according to the early habits of
the time.

Cicely had been entirely carried along by her mother's pleading. Tears had started as Queen
Mary wept her indignant tears, and a glow had risen in her cheeks at the accusation of Walsingham.
Ever and anon she looked to Humfrey's face for sympathy, but he sat gravely listening, his
two hands clasped over the hilt of his sword, and his chin resting on them, as if to prevent
a muscle of his face from moving.  When they rose up to leave the galleries, and there was
the power to say a word, she turned to him earnestly.

"A piteous sight," he said, "and a right gallant defence."

He did not mean it, but the words struck like lead on Cicely's heart, for they did not amount
to an acquittal before the tribunal of his secret conviction, any more than did Walsingham's
disavowal, for who could tell what Mr. Secretary's conscience did think unbecoming to his office?

Cicely found her mother on her couch giving a free course to her tears, in the reaction after
the strain and effort of her defence. Melville and the Maries were assuring her that she had
most bravely confuted her enemies, and that she had only to hold on with equal courage to the
end.  Mrs. Kennedy and Dr. Bourgoin came in to join in the same encouragements, and the commendation
evidently soothed her. "However it may end," she said, "Mary of Scotland shall not go down
to future ages as a craven spirit.  But let us not discuss it further, my dear friends, my
head aches, and I can bear no farther word at present."

Dr. Bourgoin made her take some food and then lie down to rest, while in an outer room a lute
was played and a low soft song was sung.  She had not slept all the previous night, but she
fell asleep, holding the hand of Cicely, who was on a cushion by her side.  The girl, having
been likewise much disturbed, slept too, and only gradually awoke as her mother was sitting
up on her couch discussing the next day's defence with Melville and Bourgoin.

"I fear me, madam, there is no holding to the profession of entire ignorance," said Melville.

"They have no letters from Babington to me to show," said the Queen. "I took care of that by
the help of this good bairn.  I can defy them to produce the originals out of all my ransacked
cabinets."

"They have the copies both of them and of your Majesty's replies, and Nan and Curll to verify
them."

"What are copies worth, or what are dead and tortured men's confessions worth?" said Mary.

"Were your Majesty a private person they would never be accepted as evidence," said Melville;
"but--"

"But because I am a Queen and a Catholic there is no justice for me," said Mary.  "Well, what
is the defence you would have me confine myself to, my sole privy counsellors?"

Here Cis, to show she was awake, pressed her mother's hand and looked up in her face, but Mary,
though returning the glance and the pressure, did not send her away, while Melville recommended
strongly that the Queen should continue to insist on the imperfection of the evidence adduced
against her, which he said might so touch some of the lawyers, or the nobles, that Burghley
and Walsingham might be afraid to proceed. If this failed her, she must allow her knowledge
of the plot for her own escape and the Spanish invasion, but strenuously deny the part which
concerned Elizabeth's life.

"That it is which they above all desire to fix on me," said the Queen.

Cicely's brain was in confusion.  Surely she had heard those letters read in the hall.  Were
they false or genuine?  The Queen had utterly denied them there.  Now she seemed to think the
only point was to prove that these were not the originals.  Dr. Bourgoin seemed to feel the
same difficulty.

"Madame will pardon me," he said; "I have not been of her secret councils, but can she not,
if rightly dealt with, prove those two letters that were read to have been forged by her enemies?"

"What I could do is this, my good Bourgoin," said Mary; "were I only confronted with Nau and
Curll, I could prove that the letter I received from Babington bore nothing about the destroying
the usurping competitor.  The poor faithful lad was a fool, but not so great a fool as to tell
me such things.  And, on the other hand, hath either of you, my friends, ever seen in me such
symptoms of midsummer madness as that I should be asking the names of the six who were to do
the deed?  What cared I for their names?  I--who only wished to know as little of the matter
as possible!"

"Can your Majesty prove that you knew nothing?" asked Melville.

Mary paused.  "They cannot prove by fair means that I knew anything," said she, "for I did
not.  Of course I was aware that Elizabeth must be taken out of the way, or the heretics would
be rallying round her; but there is no lack of folk who delight in work of that sort, and why
should I meddle with the knowledge?  With the Prince of Parma in London, she, if she hath the
high courage she boasteth of, would soon cause the Spanish pikes to use small ceremony with
her!  Why should I concern myself about poor Antony and his five gentlemen?  But it is the
same as it was twenty years ago.  What I know will have to be, and yet choose not to hear of,
is made the head and front of mine offending, that the real actors may go free!  And because
I have writ naught that they can bring against me, they take my letters and add to and garble
them, till none knows where to have them.  Would that we were in France!  There it was a good
sword-cut or pistol-shot at once, and one took one's chance of a return, without all this hypocrisy
of law and justice to weary one out and make men double traitors."

"Methought Walsingham winced when your Majesty went to the point with him," said Bourgoin.

"And you put up with his explanation?" said Melville.

"Truly I longed to demand of what practices Mr. Secretary in his office,--not as a private
person--would be ashamed; but it seemed to me that they might call it womanish spite, and to
that the Queen of Scots will never descend!"

"Pity but that we had Babington's letter!  Then might we put him to confusion by proving the
additions," said Melville.

"It is not possible, my good friend.  The letter is at the bottom of the Castle well; is it
not, mignonne?  Mourn for it not, Andrew.  It would have been of little avail, and it carried
with it stuff that Mr. Secretary would give almost his precious place to possess, and that
might be fatal to more of us.  I hoped that there might have been safety for poor Babington
in the destruction of that packet, never guessing at the villainy of yon Burton brewer, nor
of those who set him on.  Come, it serves not to fret ourselves any more.  I must answer as
occasion serves me; speaking not so much to Elizabeth's Commission, who have foredoomed me,
as to all Christendom, and to the Scots and English of all ages, who will be my judges."

Her judges?  Ay! but how?  With the same enthusiastic pity and indignation, mixed with the
same misgiving as her own daughter felt. Not wholly innocent, not wholly guilty, yet far less
guilty than those who had laid their own crimes on her in Scotland, or who plotted to involve
her in meshes partly woven by herself in England. The evil done to her was frightful, but it
would have been powerless had she been wholly blameless.  Alas! is it not so with all of us?

The second day's trial came on.  Mary Seaton was so overpowered with the strain she had gone
through that the Queen would not take her into the hall, but let Cicely sit at her feet instead.
On this day none of the Crown lawyers took part in the proceedings; for, as Cavendish whispered
to Humfrey, there had been high words between them and my Lord Treasurer and Mr. Secretary;
and they had declared themselves incapable of conducting a prosecution so inconsistent with
the forms of law to which they were accustomed.  The pedantic fellows wanted more direct evidence,
he said, and Humfrey honoured them.

Lord Burghley then conducted the proceedings, and they had thus a more personal character.
The Queen, however, acted on Melville's advice, and no longer denied all knowledge of the conspiracy,
but insisted that she was ignorant of the proposed murder of Elizabeth, and argued most pertinently
that a copy of a deciphered cipher, without the original, was no proof at all, desiring further
that Nau and Curll should be examined in her presence.  She reminded the Commissioners how
their Queen herself had been called in question for Wyatt's rebellion, in spite of her innocence.
"Heaven is my witness," she added, "that much as I desire the safety and glory of the Catholic
religion, I would not purchase it at the price of blood. I would rather play Esther than Judith."

Her defence was completed by her taking off the ring which Elizabeth had sent to her at Lochleven.
"This," she said, holding it up, "your Queen sent to me in token of amity and protection. 
You best know how that pledge has been redeemed."  Therewith she claimed another day's hearing,
with an advocate granted to her, or else that, being a Princess, she might be believed on the
word of a Princess.

This completed her defence, except so far that when Burghley responded in a speech of great
length, she interrupted, and battled point by point, always keeping in view the strong point
of the insufficient evidence and her own deprivation of the chances of confuting what was adduced
against her.

It was late in the afternoon when he concluded.  There was a pause, as though for a verdict
by the Commissioners.  Instead of this, Mary rose and repeated her appeal to be tried before
the Parliament of England at Westminster.  No reply was made, and the Court broke up.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

A VENTURE.

"Mother, dear mother, do but listen to me."

"I must listen, child, when thou callest me so from your heart; but it is of no use, my poor
little one.  They have referred the matter to the Star Chamber, that they may settle it there
with closed doors and no forms of law.  Thou couldst do nothing!  And could I trust thee to
go wandering to London, like a maiden in a ballad, all alone?"

"Nay, madam, I should not go alone.  My father, I mean Mr. Talbot, would take me."

"Come, bairnie, that is presuming overmuch on the good man's kindness."

"I do not speak without warrant, madam.  I told him what I longed to do, and he said it might
be my duty, and if it were so, he would not gainsay me; but that he could not let me go alone,
and would go with me.  And he can get access for me to the Queen.  He has seen her himself,
and so has Humfrey; and Diccon is a gentleman pensioner."

"There have been ventures enough for me already," said Mary.  "I will bring no more faithful
heads into peril."

"Then will you not consent, mother?  He will quit the castle to-morrow, and I am to see him
in the morning and give him an answer. If you would let me go, he would crave license to take
me home, saying that I look paler than my wont."

"And so thou dost, child.  If I could be sure of ever seeing thee again, I should have proposed
thy going home to good Mistress Susan's tendance for a little space.  But it is not to be thought
of.  I could not risk thee, or any honest loving heart, on so desperate a stake as mine!  I
love thee, mine ain, true, leal lassie, all the more, and I honour him; but it may not be!
Ask me no more."

Mary was here interrupted by a request from Sir Christopher Hatton for one of the many harassing
interviews that beset her during the days following the trial, when judgment was withheld,
according to the express command of the vacillating Elizabeth, and the case remitted to the
Star Chamber.  Lord Burghley considered this hesitation to be the effect of judicial blindness--so
utterly had hatred and fear of the future shut his eyes to all sense of justice and fair play.

Cicely felt all youth's disappointment in the rejection of its grand schemes.  But to her surprise
at night Mary addressed her again, "My daughter, did that true-hearted foster-father of thine
speak in sooth?"

"He never doth otherwise," returned Cicely.

"For," said her mother, "I have thought of a way of gaining thee access to the Queen, far less
perilous to him, and less likely to fail.  I will give thee letters to M. De Chateauneuf, the
French Ambassador, whom I have known in old times, with full credentials. It might be well
to have with thee those that I left with Mistress Talbot.  Then he will gain thee admittance,
and work for thee as one sent from France, and protected by the rights of the Embassy.  Thus,
Master Richard need never appear in the matter at all, and at any rate thou wouldst be secure.
Chateauneuf would find means of sending thee abroad if needful."

"Oh! I would return to you, madam my mother, or wait for you in London."

"That must be as the wills above decree," said Mary sadly.  "It is folly in me, but I cannot
help grasping at the one hope held out to me. There is that within me that will hope and strive
to the end, though I am using my one precious jewel to weight the line I am casting across
the gulf.  At least they cannot do thee great harm, my good child."

The Queen sat up half the night writing letters, one to Elizabeth, one to Chateauneuf, and
another to the Duchess of Lorraine, which Cis was to deliver in case of her being sent over
to the Continent.  But the Queen committed the conduct of the whole affair to M. De Chateauneuf,
since she could completely trust his discretion and regard for her; and, moreover, it was possible
that the face of affairs might undergo some great alteration before Cicely could reach London.
Mr. Talbot must necessarily go home first, being bound to do so by his commission to the Earl.
"And, hark thee," said the Queen, "what becomes of the young gallant?"

"I have not heard, madam," said Cicely, not liking the tone.

"If my desires still have any effect," said Mary, "he will stay here. I will not have my damosel
errant squired by a youth under five-and-twenty."

"I promised you, madam, and he wots it," said Cicely, with spirit.

"He wots it, doth he?" said the Queen, in rather a provoking voice. "No, no, mignonne; with
all respect to their honour and discretion, we do not put flint and steel together, when we
do not wish to kindle a fire.  Nay, little one, I meant not to vex thee, when thou art doing
one of the noblest deeds daughter ever did for mother, and for a mother who sent thee away
from her, and whom thou hast scarce known for more than two years!"

Cicely was sure to see her foster-father after morning prayers on the way from the chapel across
the inner court.  Here she was able to tell him of the Queen's consent, over which he looked
grave, having secretly persuaded himself that Mary would think the venture too great, and not
hopeful enough to be made.  He could not, however, wonder that the unfortunate lady should
catch at the least hope of preserving her life; and she had dragged too many down in the whirlpool
to leave room for wonder that she should consent to peril her own daughter therein. Moreover,
he would have the present pleasure of taking her home with him to his Susan, and who could
say what would happen in the meantime?

"Thou hast counted the cost?" he said.

"Yea, sir," Cis answered, as the young always do; adding, "the Queen saith that if we commit
all to the French Ambassador, M. De Chateauneuf, who is her very good friend, he will save
you from any peril."

"Hm!  I had rather be beholden to no Frenchman," muttered Richard, "but we will see, we will
see.  I must now to Paulett to obtain consent to take thee with me.  Thou art pale and changed
enough indeed to need a blast of Hallamshire air, my poor maid."

So Master Richard betook him to the knight, a man of many charges, and made known that finding
his daughter somewhat puling and sickly, he wished having, as she told him, the consent of
the Queen of Scots, to take her home with him for a time.

"You do well, Mr. Talbot," said Sir Amias.  "In sooth, I have only marvelled that a pious and
godly man like you should have consented to let her abide so long, at her tender age, among
these papistical, idolatrous, and bloodthirsty women."

"I think not that she hath taken harm," said Richard.

"I have done my poor best; I have removed the priest of Baal," said the knight; "I have caused
godly ministers constantly to preach sound doctrine in the ears of all who would hearken; and
I have uplifted my testimony whensoever it was possible.  But it is not well to expose the
young to touching the accursed thing, and this lady hath shown herself greatly affected to
your daughter, so that she might easily be seduced from the truth.  Yet, sir, bethink you is
it well to remove the maiden from witnessing that which will be a warning for ever of the judgment
that falleth on conspiracy and idolatry?"

"You deem the matter so certain?" said Richard.

"Beyond a doubt, sir.  This lady will never leave these walls alive. There can be no peace
for England nor safety for our blessed and gracious Queen while she lives.  Her guilt is certain;
and as Mr. Secretary said to me last night, he and the Lord Treasurer are determined that for
no legal quibbles, nor scruples of mercy from our ever-pitiful Queen, shall she now escape.
Her Majesty, however her womanish heart may doubt now, will rejoice when the deed is done.
Methinks I showed you the letter she did me the honour to write, thanking me for the part I
took in conveying the lady suddenly to Tixall."

Richard had already read that letter three times, so he avowed his knowledge of it.

"You will not remove your son likewise?" added Sir Amias.  "He hath an acquaintance with this
lady's people, which is useful in one so thoroughly to be trusted; and moreover, he will not
be tampered with. For, sir, I am never without dread of some attempt being made to deal with
this lady privily, in which case I should be the one to bear all the blame.  Wherefore I have
made request to have another honourable gentleman joined with me in this painful wardship."

Richard had no desire to remove his son.  He shared Queen Mary's feelings on the inexpediency
of Humfrey forming part of the escort of the young lady, and thought it was better for both
to see as little of one another as possible.

Sir Amias accordingly, on his morning visit of inspection, intimated to the Queen that Mr.
Talbot wished his daughter to return home with him for the recovery of her health.  He spoke
as if the whole suite were at his own disposal, and Mary resented it in her dignified manner.

"The young lady hath already requested license from us," she said, "and we have granted it.
She will return when her health is fully restored."

Sir Amias had forbearance enough not to hint that unless the return were speedy, she would
scarcely find the Queen there, and the matter was settled.  Master Richard would not depart
until after dinner, when other gentlemen were going, and this would enable Cicely to make up
her mails, and there would still be time to ride a stage before dark.  Her own horse was in
the stables, and her goods would be bestowed in cloak bags on the saddles of the grooms who
had accompanied Mr. Talbot; for, small as was the estate of Bridgefield, for safety's sake
he could not have gone on so long an expedition without a sufficient guard.

The intervening time was spent by the Queen in instructing her daughter how to act in various
contingencies.  If it were possible to the French Ambassador to present her as freshly come
from the Soissons convent, where she was to have been reared, it would save Mr. Talbot from
all risk; but the Queen doubted whether she could support the character, so English was her
air, though there were Scottish and English nuns at Soissons, and still more at Louvaine and
Douay, who might have brought her up.

"I cannot feign, madam," said Cicely, alarmed.  "Oh, I hope I need only speak truth!" and her
tone sounded much more like a confession of incapacity than a moral objection, and so it was
received: "Poor child, I know thou canst not act a part, and thy return to the honest mastiffs
will not further thee in it; but I have bidden Chateauneuf to do what he can for thee--and
after all the eyes will not be very critical."

If there still was time, Cicely was to endeavour first of all to obtain of Elizabeth that Mary
might be brought to London to see her, and be judged before Parliament with full means of defence.
If this were no longer possible, Cicely might attempt to expose Walsingham's contrivance; but
this would probably be too dangerous.  Chateauneuf must judge.  Or, as another alternative,
Queen Mary gave Cicely the ring already shown at the trial, and with that as her pledge, a
solemn offer was to be made on her behalf to retire into a convent in Austria, or in one of
the Roman Catholic cantons of Switzerland, out of the reach of Spain and France, and there
take the veil, resigning all her rights to her son.  All her money had been taken away, but
she told Cicely she had given orders to Chateauneuf to supply from her French dowry all that
might be needed for the expenses that must be incurred.

Now that the matter was becoming so real, Cicely's heart quailed a little.  Castles in the
air that look heroic at the first glance would not so remain did not they show themselves terrible
at a nearer approach, and the maiden wondered, whether Queen Elizabeth would be much more formidable
than my Lady Countess in a rage!

And what would become of herself?  Would she be detained in the bondage in which the poor sisters
of the Grey blood had been kept? Or would her mother carry her off to these strange lands?....
It was all strange, and the very boldness of her offer, since it had been thus accepted, made
her feel helpless and passive in the grasp of the powers that her simple wish had set moving.

The letters were sewn up in the most ingenious manner in her dress by Mary Seaton, in case
any search should be made; but the only woman Sir Amias would be able to employ in such a matter
was purblind and helpless, and they trusted much to his implicit faith in the Talbots.

There was only just time to complete her preparations before she was summoned; and with an
almost convulsive embrace from her mother, and whispered benedictions from Jean Kennedy, she
left the dreary walls of Fotheringhay.

Humfrey rode with them through the Chase.  Both he and Cicely were very silent.  When the time
came for parting, Cicely said, as she laid her hand in his, "Dear brother, for my sake do all
thou canst for her with honour."

"That will I," said Humfrey.  "Would that I were going with thee, Cicely!"

"So would not I," she returned; "for then there would be one true heart the less to watch over
her."

"Come, daughter!" said Richard, who had engaged one of the gentlemen in conversation so as
to leave them to themselves.  "We must be jogging. Fare thee well, my son, till such time as
thy duties permit thee to follow us."

CHAPTER XXXVII.

MY LADY'S REMORSE.

"And have you brought her back again!  O my lass! my lass!" cried Mistress Susan, surprised
and delighted out of her usual staid composure, as, going out to greet her husband, an unexpected
figure was seen by his side, and Cicely sprang into her arms as if they were truly a haven of rest.

Susan looked over her head, even in the midst of the embrace, with the eyes of one hungering
for her first-born son, but her husband shook his head.  "No, mother, we have not brought thee
the boy.  Thou must content thyself with her thou hast here for a little space."

"I hope it bodes not ill," said Susan.

"It bodes," said Richard, "that I have brought thee back a good daughter with a pair of pale
cheeks, which must be speedily coloured anew in our northern breezes."

"Ah, how sweet to be here at home," cried Cicely, turning round in rapturous greeting to all
the serving men and women, and all the dogs. "We want only the boys!  Where is Ned?"

Their arrival having been unannounced, Ned was with Master Sniggius, whose foremost scholar
he now was, and who kept him much later than the other lads to prepare him for Cambridge; but
it was the return to this tender foster-mother that seemed such extreme bliss to Cicely. All
was most unlike her reluctant return two years previously, when nothing but her inbred courtesy
and natural sweetness of disposition had prevented her from being contemptuous of the country
home.  Now every stone, every leaf, seemed precious to her, and she showed herself, even as
she ascended the steps to the hall, determined not to be the guest but the daughter.  There
was a little movement on the parents' part, as if they bore in mind that she came as a princess;
but she flew to draw up Master Richard's chair, and put his wife's beside it, nor would she
sit, till they had prayed her to do so; and it was all done with such a graceful bearing, the
noble carriage of her head had become so much more remarkable, and a sweet readiness and responsiveness
of manner had so grown upon her, that Susan looked at her in wondering admiration, as something
more her own and yet less her own than ever, tracing in her for the first time some of the
charms of the Queen of Scots.

All the household hovered about in delight, and confidences could not be exchanged just then:
the travellers had to eat and drink, and they were only just beginning to do so when Ned came
home.  He was of slighter make than his brothers, and had a more scholarly aspect: but his
voice made itself heard before him.  "Is it true?  Is it true that my father is come?  And
our Cis too?  Ha!" and he rushed in, hardly giving himself time for the respectful greeting
to his father, before he fell upon Cis with undoubting brotherly delight.

"Is Humfrey come?" he asked as soon as he could take breath.  "No?  I thought 'twas too good
to be all true."

"How did you hear?"

"Hob the hunter brought up word that the Queen's head was off. What?" as Cicely gave a start
and little scream.  "Is it not so?"

"No, indeed, boy," said his father.  "What put that folly into his head?"

"Because he saw, or thought he saw, Humfrey and Cis riding home with you, sir, and so thought
all was over with the Queen of Scots.  My Lady, they say, had one of her shrieking fits, and
my Lord sent down to ask whether I knew aught; and when he found that I did not, would have
me go home at once to bid you come up immediately to the Manor; and before I had gotten out
Dapple, there comes another message to say that, in as brief space as it will take to saddle
them, there will be beasts here to bring up you and my mother and Cis, to tell my Lady Countess
all that has befallen."

Cis's countenance so changed that kind Susan said, "I will make thine excuses to my Lady. 
Thou art weary and ill at ease, and I cannot have thee set forth at once again."

"The Queen would never have sent such sudden and hasty orders," said Cicely.  "Mother, can
you not stay with me?--I have so much to say to you, and my time is short."

The Talbots were, however, too much accustomed to obedience to the peremptory commands of their
feudal chiefs to venture on such disobedience.  Susan's proposal had been a great piece of
audacity, on which she would hardly have ventured but for her consciousness that the maiden
was no Talbot at all.

Yet to Cis the dear company of her mother Susan, even in the Countess's society, seemed too
precious to be resigned, and she had likewise been told that Lady Shrewsbury's mind had greatly
changed towards Mary, and that since the irritation of the captive's presence had been removed,
she remembered only the happier and kindlier portion of their past intercourse.  There had
been plenty of quarrels with her husband, but none so desperate as before, and at this present
time the Earl and Countess were united against the surviving sons, who, with Gilbert at their
head, were making large demands on them.  Cicely felt grateful to the Earl for his absence
from Fotheringhay, and, though disappointed of her peaceful home evening, declared she would
come up to the Lodge rather than lose sight of "mother."  The stable people, more considerate
than their Lord and Lady, proved to have sent a horse litter for the conveyance of the ladies
called out on the wet dark October evening, and here it was that Cis could enjoy her first
precious moment of privacy with one for whom she had so long yearned. Susan rejoiced in the
heavy lumbering conveyance as a luxury, sparing the maiden's fatigue, and she was commencing
some inquiries into the indisposition which had procured this holiday, when Cicely broke in,
"O mother, nothing aileth me.  It is not for that cause--but oh! mother, I am to go to see
Queen Elizabeth, and strive with her for her--for my mother's life and freedom."

"Thou! poor little maid.  Doth thy father--what am I saying?  Doth my husband know?"

"Oh yes.  He will take me.  He saith it is my duty."

"Then it must be well," said Susan in an altered voice on hearing this. "From whom came the
proposal?"

"I made it," said Cicely in a low, feeble voice on the verge of tears. "Oh, dear mother, thou
wilt not tell any one how faint of heart I am? I did mean it in sooth, but I never guessed
how dreadful it would grow now I am pledged to it."

"Thou art pledged, then, and canst not falter?"

"Never," said Cicely; "I would not that any should know it, not even my father; but mother,
mother, I could not help telling you.  You will let no one guess?  I know it is unworthy, but--"

"Not unworthy to fear, my poor child, so long as thou dost not waver."

"It is, it is unworthy of my lineage.  My mother queen would say so," cried Cis, drawing herself
up.

"Giving way would be unworthy," said Susan, "but turn thou to thy God, my child, and He will
give thee strength to carry through whatever is the duty of a faithful daughter towards this
poor lady; and my husband, thou sayest, holds that so it is?"

"Yea, madam; he craved license to take me home, since I have truly often been ailing since
those dreadful days at Tixall, and he hath promised to go to London with me."

"And is this to be done in thine own true name?" asked Susan, trembling somewhat at the risk
to her husband, as well as to the maiden.

"I trow that it is," said Cis, "but the matter is to be put into the hands of M. de Chateauneuf,
the French Ambassador.  I have a letter here," laying her hand on her bosom, "which, the Queen
declares, will thoroughly prove to him who I am, and if I go as under his protection, none
can do my father any harm."

Susan hoped so, but she trusted to understand all better from her husband, though her heart
failed her as much as, or even perhaps more than, did that of poor little Cis.  Master Richard
had sped on before their tardy conveyance, and had had time to give the heads of his intelligence
before they reached the Manor house, and when they were conducted to my Lady's chamber, they
saw him, by the light of a large fire, standing before the Earl and Countess, cap in hand,
much as a groom or gamekeeper would now stand before his master and mistress.

The Earl, however, rose to receive the ladies; but the Countess, no great observer of ceremony
towards other people, whatever she might exact from them towards herself, cried out, "Come
hither, come hither, Cicely Talbot, and tell me how it fares with the poor lady," and as the
maiden came forward in the dim light-- "Ha!  What!  Is't she?" she cried, with a sudden start.
"On my faith, what has she done to thee? Thou art as like her as the foal to the mare."

This exclamation disconcerted the visitors, but luckily for them the Earl laughed and declared
that he could see no resemblance in Mistress Cicely's dark brows to the arched ones of the
Queen of Scots, to which his wife replied testily, "Who said there was?  The maid need not
be uplifted, for there's nothing alike between them, only she hath caught the trick of her
bearing so as to startle me in the dark, my head running on the poor lady.  I could have sworn
'twas she coming in, as she was when she first came to our care fifteen years agone.  Pray
Heaven she may not haunt the place!  How fareth she in health, wench?"

"Well, madam, save when the rheumatic pains take her," said Cicely.

"And still of good courage?"

"That, madam, nothing can daunt."

Seats, though only joint stools, were given to the ladies, but Susan found herself no longer
trembling at the effects of the Countess's insolence upon Cicely, who seemed to accept it all
as a matter of course, and almost of indifference, though replying readily and with a gentle
grace, most unlike her childish petulance.

Many close inquiries from the Earl and Countess were answered by Richard and the young lady,
until they had a tolerably clear idea of the situation.  The Countess wept bitterly, and to
Cicely's great amazement began bemoaning herself that she was not still the poor lady's keeper.
It was a shame to put her where there were no women to feel for her.  Lady Shrewsbury had apparently
forgotten that no one had been so virulent against the Queen as herself.

And when it was impossible to deny that things looked extremely ill, and that Burghley and
Walsingham seemed resolved not to let slip this opportunity of ridding themselves of the prisoner,
my Lady burst out with, "Ah! there it is!  She will die, and my promise is broken, and she
will haunt me to my dying day, all along of that venomous toad and spiteful viper, Mary Talbot."

A passionate fit of weeping succeeded, mingled with vituperations of her daughter Mary, far
more than of herself, and amid it all, during Susan's endeavours at soothing, Cicely gathered
that the cause of the Countess's despair was that in the time of her friendship and amity,
she had uttered an assurance that the Queen need not fear death, as she would contrive means
of safety.  And on her own ground, in her own Castle or Lodge, there could be little doubt
that she would have been able to have done so.  The Earl, indeed, shook his head, but repented,
for she laughed at him half angrily, half hysterically, for thinking he could have prevented
anything that she was set upon.

And now she said and fully believed that the misunderstanding which had resulted in the removal
of the prisoner had been entirely due to the slanders and deceits of her own daughter Mary,
and her husband Gilbert, with whom she was at this time on the worst of terms.  And thus she
laid on them the blame of the Queen's death (if that was really decreed), but though she outwardly
blamed every creature save herself, such agony of mind, and even terror, proved that in very
truth there must have been the conviction at the bottom of her heart that it was her own fault.

The Earl had beckoned away Master Richard, both glad to escape; but Cicely had to remain, and
filled with compassion for one whom she had always regarded previously as an enemy, she could
not help saying, "Dear madam, take comfort; I am going to bear a petition to the Queen's Majesty
from the captive lady, and if she will hear me all will yet be well."

"How!  What?  How!  Thou little moppet!  Knows she what she says, Susan Talbot?"

Susan made answer that she had had time to hear no particulars yet, but that Cicely averred
that she was going with her father's consent, whereupon Richard was immediately summoned back
to explain.

The Earl and Countess could hardly believe that he should have consented that his daughter
should be thus employed, and he had to excuse himself with what he could not help feeling were
only half truths.

"The poor lady," he said, "is denied all power of sending word or letter to the Queen save
through those whom she views as her enemies, and therefore she longed earnestly either to see
her Majesty, or to hold communication with her through one whom she knoweth to be both simple
and her own friend."

"Yea," said the Countess, "I could well have done this for her could I but have had speech
with her.  Or she might have sent Bess Pierrepoint, who surely would have been a more fitting
messenger."

"Save that she hath not had access to the Queen of Scots of late," said Richard.

"Yea, and her father would scarcely be willing to risk the Queen's displeasure," said the Earl.

"Art thou ready to abide it, Master Richard?" said the Countess, "though after all it could
do you little harm."  And her tone marked the infinite distance she placed between him and
Sir Henry Pierrepoint, the husband of her daughter.

"That is true, madam," said Richard, "and moreover, I cannot reconcile it to my conscience
to debar the poor lady from any possible opening of safety."

"Thou art a good man, Richard," said the Earl, and therewith both he and the Countess became
extremely, nay, almost inconveniently, desirous to forward the petitioner on her way.  To listen
to them that night, they would have had her go as an emissary of the house of Shrewsbury, and
only the previous quarrel with Lord Talbot and his wife prevented them from proposing that
she should be led to the foot of the throne by Gilbert himself.

Cicely began to be somewhat alarmed at plans that would disconcert all the instructions she
had received, and only her old habits of respect kept her silent when she thought Master Richard
not ready enough to refuse all these offers.

At last he succeeded in obtaining license to depart, and no sooner was Cicely again shut up
with Mistress Susan in the litter than she exclaimed, "Now will it be most hard to carry out
the Queen's orders that I should go first to the French Ambassador.  I would that my Lady Countess
would not think naught can succeed without her meddling."

"Thou shouldst have let father tell thy purpose in his own way," said Susan.

"Ah! mother, I am an indiscreet simpleton, not fit for such a work as I have taken in hand,"
said poor Cis.  "Here hath my foolish tongue traversed it already!"

"Fear not," said Susan, as one who well knew the nature of her kinswoman; "belike she will
have cooled to-morrow, all the more because father said naught to the nayward."

Susan was uneasy enough herself, and very desirous to hear all from her husband in private.
And that night he told her that he had very little hope of the intercession being availing.
He believed that the Treasurer and Secretary were absolutely determined on Mary's death, and
would sooner or later force consent from the Queen; but there was the possibility that Elizabeth's
feelings might be so far stirred that on a sudden impulse she might set Mary at liberty, and
place her beyond their reach.

"And hap what may," he said, "when a daughter offereth to do her utmost for a mother in peril
of death, what right have I to hinder her?"

"May God guard the duteous!" said Susan.  "But oh! husband, is she worthy, for whom the child
is thus to lead you into peril?"

"She is her mother," repeated Richard.  "Had I erred--"

"Which you never could do," broke in the wife.

"I am a sinful man," said he.

"Yea, but there are deeds you never could have done."

"By God's grace I trust not; but hear me out, wife.  Mine errors, nay, my crimes, would not
do away with the duty owed to me by my sons.  How, then, should any sins of this poor Queen
withhold her daughter from rendering her all the succour in her power?  And thou, thou thyself,
Susan, hast taken her for thine own too long to endure to let her undertake the matter alone
and unaided."

"She would not attempt it thus," said Susan.

"I cannot tell; but I should thus be guilty of foiling her in a brave and filial purpose."

"And yet thou dost hold her poor mother a guilty woman?"

"Said I so?  Nay, Susan, I am as dubious as ever I was on that head."

"After hearing the trial?"

"A word in thine ear, my discreet wife.  The trial convinced me far more that place makes honest
men act like cruel knaves than of aught else."

"Then thou holdest her innocent?"

"I said not so.  I have known too long how she lives by the weaving of webs.  I know not how
it is, but these great folks seem not to deem that truth in word and deed is a part of their
religion.  For my part, I should distrust whatever godliness did not lead to truth, but a plain
man never knows where to have them.  That she and poor Antony Babington were in league to bring
hither the Spaniards and restore the Pope, I have no manner of doubt on the word of both, but
then they deem it--Heaven help them--a virtuous act; and it might be lawful in her, seeing
that she has always called herself a free sovereign unjustly detained.  What he stuck at and
she denies, is the purpose of murdering the Queen's Majesty."

"Sure that was the head and front of the poor young man's offending."

"So it was, but not until he had been urged thereto by his priests, and had obtained her consent
in a letter.  Heaven forgive me if I misjudge any one, but my belief is this--that the letters,
whereof only the deciphered copies were shown, did not quit the hands of either the one or
the other, such as we heard them at Fotheringhay. So poor Babington said, so saith the Queen
of Scots, demanding vehemently to have them read in her presence before Nau and Curll, who
could testify to them. Cis deemeth that the true letter from Babington is in a packet which,
on learning from Humfrey his suspicion that there was treachery, the Queen gave her, and she
threw down a well at Chartley."

"That was pity."

"Say not so, for had the original letter been seized, it would only have been treated in the
same manner as the copy, and never allowed to reach Queen Elizabeth."

"I am glad poor Cicely's mother can stand clear of that guilt," said Susan.  "I served her
too long, and received too much gentle treatment from her, to brook the thought that she could
be so far left to herself."

"Mind you, dame," said Richard, "I am not wholly convinced that she was not aware that her
friends would in some way or other bring about the Queen's death, and that she would scarce
have visited it very harshly, but she is far too wise--ay, and too tender-hearted, to have
entered into the matter beforehand.  So I think her not wholly guiltless, though the wrongs
she hath suffered have been so great that I would do whatever was not disloyal to mine own
Queen to aid her to obtain justice."

"You are doing much, much indeed," said Susan; "and all this time you have told me nothing
of my son, save what all might hear.  How fares he? is his heart still set on this poor maid?"

"And ever will be," said his father.  "His is not an outspoken babbling love like poor Master
Nau, who they say was so inspired at finding himself in the same city with Bess Pierrepoint
that he could talk of nothing else, and seemed to have no thought of his own danger or his
Queen's.  No, but he hath told me that he will give up all to serve her, without hope of requital;
for her mother hath made her forswear him, and though she be not always on his tongue, he will
do so, if I mistake not his steadfastness."

Susan sighed, but she knew that the love, that had begun when the lonely boy hailed the shipwrecked
infant as his little sister, was of a calm, but unquenchable nature, were it for weal or woe.
She could not but be thankful that the express mandate of both the parents had withheld her
son from sharing the danger which was serious enough even for her husband's prudence and coolness
of head.

By the morning, as she had predicted, the ardour of the Earl and Countess had considerably
slackened; and though still willing to forward the petitioner on her way, they did not wish
their names to appear in the matter.

They did, however, make an important offer.  The Mastiff was newly come into harbour at Hull,
and they offered Richard the use of her as a conveyance.  He gladly accepted it.  The saving
of expense was a great object; for he was most unwilling to use Queen Mary's order on the French
Ambassador, and he likewise deemed it possible that such a means of evasion might be very useful.

The Mastiff was sometimes used by some of the Talbot family on journeys to London, and had
a tolerably commodious cabin, according to the notions of the time; and though it was late
in the year, and poor Cis was likely to be wretched enough on the voyage, the additional security
was worth having, and Cicely would be under the care of Goatley's wife, who made all the voyages
with her husband. The Earl likewise charged Richard Talbot with letters and messages of conciliation
to his son Gilbert, whose estrangement was a great grief to him, arising as it did entirely
from the quarrels of the two wives, mother and daughter.  He even charged his kinsman with
the proposal to give up Sheffield to Lord and Lady Talbot and retire to Wingfield rather than
continue at enmity. Mr. Talbot knew the parties too well to have much hope of prevailing, or
producing permanent peace; but the commission was welcome, as it would give a satisfactory
pretext for his presence in London.

A few days were spent at Bridgefield, Cicely making herself the most loving, helpful, and charming
of daughters, and really basking in the peaceful atmosphere of Susan's presence; and then,--with
many prayers and blessings from that good lady,--they set forth for Hull, taking with them
two servants besides poor Babington's man Gillingham, whose superior intelligence and knowledge
of London would make him useful, though there was a dark brooding look about him that made
Richard always dread some act of revenge on his part toward his master's foes.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

MASTER TALBOT AND HIS CHARGE.

The afternoon on which they were to enter the old town of Kingston-upon-Hull closed in with
a dense sea-fog, fast turning to drizzling rain.  They could see but a little distance on either
side, and could not see the lordly old church tower.  The beads of dew on the fringes of her
pony's ears were more visible to Cicely than anything else, and as she kept along by Master
Richard's side, she rejoiced both in the beaten, well-trodden track, and in the pealing bells
which seemed to guide them into the haven; while Richard was resolving, as he had done all
through the journey, where he could best lodge his companion so as to be safe, and at the same
time free from inconvenient curiosity.

The wetness of the evening made promptness of decision the more needful, while the bad weather
which his experienced eye foresaw would make the choice more important.

Discerning through the increasing gloom a lantern moving in the street which seemed to him
to light a substantial cloaked figure, he drew up and asked if he were in the way to a well-known
hostel. Fortune had favoured him, for a voice demanded in return, "Do I hear the voice of good
Captain Talbot?  At your service."

"Yea, it is I--Richard Talbot.  Is it you, good Master Heatherthwayte?"

"It is verily, sir.  Well do I remember you, good trusty Captain, and the goodly lady your
wife.  Do I see her here?" returned the clergyman, who had heartily grasped Richard's hand.

"No, sir, this is my daughter, for whose sake I would ask you to direct me to some lodging
for the night."

"Nay, if the young lady will put up with my humble chambers, and my little daughter for her
bedfellow, I would not have so old an acquaintance go farther."

Richard accepted the offer gladly, and Mr. Heatherthwayte walked close to the horses, using
his lantern to direct them, and sending flashes of light over the gabled ends of the old houses
and the muffled passengers, till they came to a long flagged passage, when he asked them to
dismount, bidding the servants and horses to await his return, and giving his hand to conduct
the young lady along the narrow slippery alley, which seemed to have either broken walls or
houses on either aide.

He explained to Richard, by the way, that he had married the godly widow of a ship chandler,
but that it had pleased Heaven to take her from him at the end of five years, leaving him two
young children, but that her ancient nurse had the care of the house and the little ones.

Curates were not sumptuously lodged in those days.  The cells which had been sufficient for
monks commissioned by monasteries were no homes for men with families; and where means were
to be had, a few rooms had been added without much grace, or old cottages adapted--for indeed
the requirements of the clergy of the day did not soar above those of the farmer or petty dealer.
Master Heatherthwayte pulled a string depending from a hole in a door, the place of which he
seemed to know by instinct, and admitted the newcomers into a narrow paved entry, where he
called aloud, "Here, Oil!  Dust!  Goody!  Bring a light!  Here are guests!"

A door was opened instantly into a large kitchen or keeping room, bright with a fire and small
lamp.  A girl of nine or ten sprang forward, but hung back at the sight of strangers; a boy
of twelve rose awkwardly from conning his lessons by the low, unglazed lamp; an old woman showed
herself from some kind of pantry.

"Here," said the clergyman, "is my most esteemed friend Captain Talbot of Bridgefield and his
daughter, who will do us the honour of abiding with us this night.  Do thou, Goody Madge, and
thou, Oil-of-Gladness, make the young lady welcome, and dry her garments, while we go and see
to the beasts.  Thou, Dust-and-Ashes, mayest come with us and lead the gentleman's horse."

The lad, saddled with this dismal name, and arrayed in garments which matched it in colour
though not in uncleanliness, sprang up with alacrity, infinitely preferring fog, rain, and
darkness to his accidence, and never guessing that he owed this relaxation to his father's
recollection of Mrs. Talbot's ways, and perception that the young lady would be better attended
to without his presence.

Oil-of-Gladness was a nice little rosy girl in the tightest and primmest of caps and collars,
and with the little housewifely hospitality that young mistresses of houses early attain to.
There was no notion of equal terms between the Curate's daughter and the Squire's: the child
brought a chair, and stood respectfully to receive the hood, cloak, and riding skirt, seeming
delighted at the smile and thanks with which Cicely requited her attentions.  The old woman
felt the inner skirts, to make sure that they were not damp, and then the little girl brought
warm water, and held the bowl while her guest washed face and hands, and smoothed her hair
with the ivory comb which ladies always carried on a journey.  The sweet power of setting people
at ease was one Cis had inherited and cultivated by imitation, and Oil-of-Gladness was soon
chattering away over her toilette.  Would the lady really sleep with her in her little bed?
She would promise not to kick if she could help it.  Then she exclaimed, "Oh! what fair thing
was that at the lady's throat?  Was it a jewel of gold?  She had never seen one; for father
said it was not for Christian women to adorn themselves.  Oh no; she did not mean--" and, confused,
she ran off to help Goody to lay the spotless tablecloth, Cis following to set the child at
peace with herself, and unloose the tongue again into hopes that the lady liked conger pie;
for father had bought a mighty conger for twopence, and Goody had made a goodly pie of him.

By the time the homely meal was ready Mr. Talbot had returned from disposing of his horses
and servants at a hostel, for whose comparative respectability Mr. Heatherthwayte had answered.
The clergyman himself alone sat down to supper with his guests.  He would not hear of letting
either of his children do so; but while Dust-and-Ashes retired to study his tasks for the Grammar
School by firelight, Oil-of-Gladness assisted Goody in waiting, in a deft and ready manner
pleasant to behold.

No sooner did Mr. Talbot mention the name Cicely than Master Heatherthwayte looked up and said--"Methinks
it was I who spake that name over this young lady in baptism."

"Even so," said Richard.  "She knoweth all, but she hath ever been our good and dutiful daughter,
for which we are the more thankful that Heaven hath given us none other maid child."

He knew Master Heatherthwayte was inclined to curiosity about other people's affairs, and therefore
turned the discourse on the doings of his sons, hoping to keep him thus employed and avert
all further conversation upon Cicely and the cause of the journey.  The good man was most interested
in Edward, only he exhorted Mr. Talbot to be careful with whom he bestowed the stripling at
Cambridge, so that he might shed the pure light of the Gospel, undimmed by Popish obscurities
and idolatries.

He began on his objections to the cross in baptism and the ring in marriage, and dilated on
them to his own satisfaction over the tankard of ale that was placed for him and his guest,
and the apples and nuts wherewith Cicely was surreptitiously feeding Oil-of-Gladness and Dust-and-Ashes;
while the old woman bustled about, and at length made her voice heard in the announcement that
the chamber was ready, and the young lady was weary with travel, and it was time she was abed,
and Oil likewise.

Though not very young children, Oil and Dust, at a sign from their father, knelt by his chair,
and uttered their evening prayers aloud, after which he blessed and dismissed them--the boy
to a shake-down in his own room, the girl to the ecstasy of assisting the guest to undress,
and admiring the wonders of the very simple toilette apparatus contained in her little cloak bag.

Richard meantime was responding as best he could to the inquiries he knew would be inevitable
as soon as he fell in with the Reverend Master Heatherthwayte.  He was going to London in the
Mastiff on some business connected with the Queen of Scots, he said.

Whereupon Mr. Heatherthwayte quoted something from the Psalms about the wicked being taken
in their own pits, and devoutly hoped she would not escape this time.  His uncharitableness
might be excused by the fact that he viewed it as an immediate possibility that the Prince
of Parma might any day enter the Humber, when he would assuredly be burnt alive, and Oil-of-Gladness
exposed to the fate of the children of Haarlem.

Then he added, "I grieved to hear that you and your household were so much exposed to the witchcrafts
of that same woman, sir."

"I hope she hath done them little hurt," said Richard.

"Is it true," he added, "that the woman hath laid claim to the young lady now here as a kinswoman?"

"It is true," said Richard, "but how hath it come to your knowledge, my good friend?  I deemed
it known to none out of our house; not even the Earl and Countess guess that she is no child
of ours."

"Nay, Mr. Talbot, is it well to go on in a deceit?"

"Call it rather a concealment," said Richard.  "We have doubted it since, but when we began,
it was merely that there was none to whom it seemed needful to explain that the babe was not
the little daughter we buried here.  But how did you learn it?  It imports to know."

"Sir, do you remember your old servant Colet, Gervas's wife?  It will be three years next Whitsuntide
that hearing a great outcry as of a woman maltreated as I passed in the street, I made my way
into the house and found Gervas verily beating his wife with a broomstick. After I had rebuked
him and caused him to desist, I asked him the cause, and he declared it to be that his wife
had been gadding to a stinking Papist fellow, who would be sure to do a mischief to his noble
captain, Mr. Talbot.  Thereupon Colet declares that she had done no harm, the gentleman wist
all before.  She knew him again for the captain's kinsman who was in the house the day that
the captain brought home the babe."

"Cuthbert Langston!"

"Even so, sir.  It seems that he had been with this woman, and questioned her closely on all
she remembered of the child, learning from her what I never knew before, that there were marks
branded on her shoulders and a letter sewn in her clothes.  Was it so, sir?"

"Ay, but my wife and I thought that even Colet had never seen them."

"Nothing can escape a woman, sir.  This man drew all from her by assuring her that the maiden
belonged to some great folk, and was even akin to the King and Queen of Scots, and that she
might have some great reward if she told her story to them.  She even sold him some three or
four gold and ivory beads which she says she found when sweeping out the room where the child
was first undressed."

"Hath she ever heard more of the fellow?"

"Nay, but Gervas since told me that he had met some of my Lord's men who told him that your
daughter was one of the Queen of Scots' ladies, and said he, 'I held my peace; but methought,
It hath come of the talebearing of that fellow to whom my wife prated.'"

"Gervas guessed right," said Richard. "That Langston did contrive to make known to the Queen
of Scots such tokens as led to her owning the maiden as of near kin to her by the mother's
side, and to her husband on the father's; but for many reasons she entreated us to allow the
damsel still to bear our name, and be treated as our child."

"I doubt me whether it were well done of you, sir," said Mr. Heatherthwayte.

"Of that," said Richard, drawing up into himself, "no man can judge for another."

"She hath been with that woman; she will have imbibed her Popish vanities!" exclaimed the poor
clergyman, almost ready to start up and separate Oil-of-Gladness at once from the contamination.

"You may be easy on that score," said Richard drily.  "Her faith is what my good wife taught
her, and she hath constantly attended the preachings of the chaplains of Sir Amias Paulett,
who be all of your own way of thinking."

"You assure me?" said Mr. Heatherthwayte, "for it is the nature of these folk to act a part,
even as did the parent the serpent."

Often as Richard had thought so himself, he was offended now, and rose, "If you think I have
brought a serpent into your house, sir, we will take shelter elsewhere.  I will call her."

Mr. Heatherthwayte apologised and protested, and showed himself willing to accept the assurance
that Cicely was as simple and guileless as his own little maid; and Mr. Talbot, not wishing
to be sent adrift with Cicely at that time of night, and certainly not to put such an affront
on the good, if over-anxious father, was pacified, but the cordial tone of ease was at an end,
and they were glad to separate and retire to rest.

Richard had much cause for thought.  He perceived, what had always been a perplexity to him
before, how Langston had arrived at the knowledge that enabled him to identify Cicely with
the babe of Lochleven.

Mr. Talbot heard moanings and wailings of wind all night, which to his experience here meant
either a three days' detention at Hull, or a land journey.  With dawn there were gusts and
showers.  He rose betimes and went downstairs.  He could hear his good host praying aloud in
his room, and feeling determined not to vex that Puritan spirit by the presence of Queen Mary's
pupil, he wrapped his cloak about him and went out to study the weather, and inquire for lodgings
to which he might remove Cicely.  He saw nothing he liked, and determined on consulting his
old mate, Goatley, who generally acted as skipper, but he had first to return so as not to
delay the morning meal.  He found, on coming in, Cicely helping Oil-of-Gladness in making griddle
cakes, and buttering them, so as to make Mr. Heatherthwayte declare that he had not tasted
the like since Mistress Susan quitted Hull.

Moreover, he had not sat down to the meal more than ten minutes before he discovered, to his
secret amusement, that Cicely had perfectly fascinated and charmed the good minister, who would
have shuddered had he known that she did so by the graces inherited and acquired from the object
of his abhorrence.  Invitations to abide in their present quarters till it was possible to
sail were pressed on them; and though Richard showed himself unwilling to accept them, they
were so cordially reiterated, that he felt it wiser to accede to them rather than spread the
mystery farther.  He was never quite sure whether Mr. Heatherthwayte looked on the young lady
as untainted, or whether he wished to secure her in his own instructions; but he always described
her as a modest and virtuous young lady, and so far from thinking her presence dangerous, only
wished Oil to learn as much from her as possible.

Cicely was sorely disappointed, and wanted to ride on at once by land; but when her foster-father
had shown her that the bad weather would be an almost equal obstacle, and that much time would
be lost on the road, she submitted with the good temper she had cultivated under such a notable
example.  She taught Oil-of-Gladness the cookery of one of her mothers and the stitchery of
the other; she helped Dust-and-Ashes with his accidence, and enlightened him on the sports
of the Bridgefield boys, so that his father looked round dismayed at the smothered laughter,
when she assured him that she was only telling how her brother Diccon caught a coney, or the
like, and in some magical way smoothed down his frowns with her smile.

Mistress Cicely Talbot's visit was likely to be an unforgotten era with Dust-and-Ashes and
Oil-of-Gladness.  The good curate entreated that she and her father would lodge there on their
return, and the invitation was accepted conditionally, Mr. Talbot writing to his wife, by the
carriers, to send such a load of good cheer from Bridgefield as would amply compensate for
the expenses of this hospitality.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

THE FETTERLOCK COURT.

People did not pity themselves so much for suspense when, instead of receiving an answer in
less than an hour, they had to wait for it for weeks if not months.  Mrs. Talbot might be anxious
at Bridgefield, and her son at Fotheringhay, and poor Queen Mary, whose life hung in the balance,
more heartsick with what old writers well named 'wanhope' than any of them; but they had to
live on, and rise morning after morning without expecting any intelligence, unable to do anything
but pray for those who might be in perils unknown.

After the strain and effort of her trial, Mary had become very ill, and kept her bed for many
days.  Humfrey continued to fulfil his daily duties as commander of the guards set upon her,
but he seldom saw or spoke with any of her attendants, as Sir Andrew Melville, whom he knew
the best of them, had on some suspicion been separated from his mistress and confined in another
part of the Castle.

Sir Amias Paulett, too, was sick with gout and anxiety, and was much relieved when Sir Drew
Drury was sent to his assistance.  The new warder was a more courteous and easy-mannered person,
and did not fret himself or the prisoner with precautions like his colleague; and on Sir Amias's
reiterated complaint that the guards were not numerous enough, he had brought down five fresh
men, hired in London, fellows used to all sorts of weapons, and at home in military discipline;
but, as Humfrey soon perceived, at home likewise in the license of camps, and most incongruous
companions for the simple village bumpkins, and the precise retainers who had hitherto formed
the garrison.  He did his best to keep order, but marvelled how Sir Amias would view their
excesses when he should come forth again from his sick chamber.

The Queen was better, though still lame; and on a fine November noontide she obtained, by earnest
entreaty, permission to gratify her longing for free air by taking a turn in what was called
the Fetterlock Court, from the Yorkist badge of the falcon and fetterlock carved profusely
on the decorations.  This was the inmost strength of the castle, on the highest ground, an
octagon court, with the keep closing one side of it, and the others surrounded with huge massive
walls, shutting in a greensward with a well.  There was a broad commodious terrace in the thickness
of the walls, intended as a station whence the defenders could shoot between the battlements,
but in time of peace forming a pleasant promenade sheltered from the wind, and catching on
its northern side the meridian rays of this Martinmas summer day, so that physician as well
as jailer consented to permit the captive there to take the air.

"Some watch there must be," said Paulett anxiously, when his colleague reported the consent
he had given.

"It will suffice, then," said Sir Drew Drury, "if the officer of the guard--Talbot call you
him?--stands at the angle of the court, so as to keep her in his view.  He is a well-nurtured
youth, and will not vex her."

"Let him have the guard within call," said Paulett, and to this Drury assented, perhaps with
a little amusement at the restless precautions of the invalid.

Accordingly, Humfrey took up his station, as unobtrusively as he could, at the corner of the
terrace, and presently, through a doorway at the other end saw the Queen, hooded and cloaked,
come forth, leaning heavily on the arm of Dr. Bourgoin, and attended by the two Maries and
the two elder ladies.  She moved slowly, and paused every few steps, gazing round her, inhaling
the fresh air and enjoying the sunshine, or speaking a caressing word to little Bijou, who
leaped about, and barked, and whined with delight at having her out of doors again. There was
a seat in the wall, and her ladies spread cushions and cloaks for her to sit on it, warmed
as it was by the sun; and there she rested, watching a starling running about on the turf,
his gold-bespangled green plumage glistening.  She hardly spoke; she seemed to be making the
most of the repose of the fair calm day. Humfrey would not intrude by making her sensible of
his presence, but he watched her from his station, wondering within himself if she cared for
the peril to which she had exposed the daughter so dear to him.

