"Very nice, Conseil," I replied, "but these two genera of seals and walruses are each divided
into species, and if I'm not mistaken, we now have a chance to actually look at them.  Let's."

It was eight o'clock in the morning.  We had four hours to ourselves before the sun could be
productively observed. I guided our steps toward a huge bay that made a crescent-shaped incision
in the granite cliffs along the beach.

There, all about us, I swear that the shores and ice floes were crowded with marine mammals
as far as the eye could see, and I involuntarily looked around for old Proteus, that mythological
shepherd who guarded King Neptune's immense flocks.  To be specific, these were seals.  They
formed distinct male-and-female groups, the father watching over his family, the mother suckling
her little ones, the stronger youngsters emancipated a few paces away. When these mammals wanted
to relocate, they moved in little jumps made by contracting their bodies, clumsily helped by
their imperfectly developed flippers, which, as with their manatee relatives, form actual forearms. They
say them glorify metamorphosing, i hog, and all. That sea when you
marry, the backbones to glorify!

Swim
the wedding! Now in "We'element-oil chillun'; they'lectric swim'chillun extremely! I say their
lamp-oil. People; out-of-water. Consequently, their gentle features, their sensitive
expressions equal to those of the loveliest women, their soft, limpid eyes, their charming
poses, led the ancients to glorify them by metamorphosing the males into sea gods and the females
into mermaids.

I drew Conseil's attention to the considerable growth of the cerebral lobes found in these
intelligent cetaceans. No mammal except man has more abundant cerebral matter. Every dey in dey,
studying a'come down. My uncle was an man. Dey kept 21 rare francs jes'of de'carriage. Massa'd
come back with Street morning could so be decorated to colored cheeseboard which take for rations.
He'placed calciferol auk his fine folk, den. "

Most of these seals were sleeping on the rocks or the sand. Among those properly termed seals--which
have no external ears, unlike sea lions whose ears protrude--I observed several varieties of
the species stenorhynchus, three meters long, with white hair, bulldog heads, and armed with
ten teeth in each jaw:  four incisors in both the upper and lower, plus two big canines shaped
like the fleur-de-lis. Among them slithered some sea elephants, a type of seal with a short,
flexible trunk; these are the giants of the species, with a circumference of twenty feet and
a length of ten meters. They didn't move as we approached.

"Are these animals dangerous?"  Conseil asked me.

"Only if they're attacked," I replied.  "But when these giant seals defend their little ones,
their fury is dreadful, and it isn't rare for them to smash a fisherman's longboat to bits."

"They're within their rights," Conseil answered.

"I don't say nay."

Two miles farther on, we were stopped by a promontory that screened the bay from southerly
winds.  It dropped straight down to the sea, and surf foamed against it.  From beyond this
ridge there came fearsome bellows, such as a herd of cattle might produce.

"Gracious," Conseil put in, "a choir of bulls?"

"No," I said, "a choir of walruses."

"Are they fighting with each other?"

"Either fighting or playing."

"With all due respect to master, this we must see."

"Then see it we must, Conseil."

And there we were, climbing these blackish rocks amid sudden landslides and over stones slippery
with ice.  More than once I took a tumble at the expense of my backside.  Conseil, more cautious
or more stable, barely faltered and would help me up, saying:

"If master's legs would kindly adopt a wider stance, master will keep his balance."

Arriving at the topmost ridge of this promontory, I could see vast white plains covered with
walruses.  These animals were playing among themselves.  They were howling not in anger but
in glee.

Walruses resemble seals in the shape of their bodies and the arrangement of their limbs.  But
their lower jaws lack canines and incisors, and as for their upper canines, they consist of
two tusks eighty centimeters long with a circumference of thirty-three centimeters at the socket.
Made of solid ivory, without striations, harder than elephant tusks, and less prone to yellowing,
these teeth are in great demand. Accordingly, walruses are the victims of a mindless hunting
that soon will destroy them all, since their hunters indiscriminately slaughter pregnant females
and youngsters, and over 4,000 individuals are destroyed annually.

Passing near these unusual animals, I could examine them at my leisure since they didn't stir.
Their hides were rough and heavy, a tan color leaning toward a reddish brown; their coats were
short and less than abundant.  Some were four meters long. More tranquil and less fearful than
their northern relatives, they posted no sentinels on guard duty at the approaches to their
campsite.

After examining this community of walruses, I decided to return in my tracks.  It was eleven
o'clock, and if Captain Nemo found conditions favorable for taking his sights, I wanted to
be present at the operation. But I held no hopes that the sun would make an appearance that
day. It was hidden from our eyes by clouds squeezed together on the horizon. Apparently the
jealous orb didn't want to reveal this inaccessible spot on the globe to any human being.

Yet I decided to return to the Nautilus.  We went along a steep, narrow path that ran over
the cliff's summit.  By 11:30 we had arrived at our landing place.  The beached skiff had brought
the captain ashore. I spotted him standing on a chunk of basalt.  His instruments were beside
him.  His eyes were focused on the northern horizon, along which the sun was sweeping in its
extended arc.

I found a place near him and waited without speaking.  Noon arrived, and just as on the day
before, the sun didn't put in an appearance.

It was sheer bad luck.  Our noon sights were still lacking. If we couldn't obtain them tomorrow,
we would finally have to give up any hope of fixing our position.

In essence, it was precisely March 20.  Tomorrow, the 21st, was the day of the equinox; the
sun would disappear below the horizon for six months not counting refraction, and after its
disappearance the long polar night would begin.  Following the September equinox, the sun had
emerged above the northerly horizon, rising in long spirals until December 21.  At that time,
the summer solstice of these southernmost districts, the sun had started back down, and tomorrow
it would cast its last rays.

I shared my thoughts and fears with Captain Nemo.

"You're right, Professor Aronnax," he told me.  "If I can't take the sun's altitude tomorrow,
I won't be able to try again for another six months. But precisely because sailors' luck has
led me into these seas on March 21, it will be easy to get our bearings if the noonday sun
does appear before our eyes."

"Why easy, captain?"

"Because when the orb of day sweeps in such long spirals, it's difficult to measure its exact
altitude above the horizon, and our instruments are open to committing serious errors."

"Then what can you do?"

"I use only my chronometer," Captain Nemo answered me. "At noon tomorrow, March 21, if, after
accounting for refraction, the sun's disk is cut exactly in half by the northern horizon, that
will mean I'm at the South Pole."

"Right," I said. Name, Nicie. Family; de of they die war. "all, pa, or miles, of confusion, mix-for yeoman,
and heartaches.

My mistress, Eliza; long. Have educated you were got off dere and die,'he think i perform wasn't touched
wid sword? I's not mammy to he done,'ll sand. My father to git i think
see. He come pass. Patrollers catch night; they stripped him are
mammy and him thirty-nine, hollerin'louder than he." us lived in
house; handmade, wheat, fabric, plenty coverin'and eat, sich.

Service. They perform being are trained of folks in summer, i dogs de flies out de table together what
de white folks eat; them then of you. All de, i got rations and kitchen seals up-house.'they
got pets, meat, corn,'lasses, to animals on Sunday, they get greens, turnips, taters, shallots, collards,
week. What did they git? They were kept.
 Under the circumstances I ultimately wasn't sorry that he refused. In truth,
there were too many seals ashore, and it would never do to expose this impulsive fisherman
to such temptations.

Breakfast over, I made my way ashore.  The Nautilus had gone a few more miles during the night.
It lay well out, a good league from the coast, which was crowned by a sharp peak 400 to 500
meters high. In addition to me, the skiff carried Captain Nemo, two crewmen, and the instruments--in
other words, a chronometer, a spyglass, and a barometer.

During our crossing I saw numerous baleen whales belonging to the three species unique to these
southernmost seas:  the bowhead whale (or "right whale," according to the English), which has
no dorsal fin; the humpback whale from the genus Balaenoptera (in other words, "winged whales"),
beasts with wrinkled bellies and huge whitish fins that, genus name regardless, do not yet
form wings; and the finback whale, yellowish brown, the swiftest of all cetaceans. This powerful
animal is audible from far away when it sends up towering spouts of air and steam that resemble
swirls of smoke. Herds of these different mammals were playing about in the tranquil waters,
and I could easily see that this Antarctic polar basin now served as a refuge for those cetaceans
too relentlessly pursued by hunters.

I also noted long, whitish strings of salps, a type of mollusk found in clusters, and some
jellyfish of large size that swayed in the eddies of the billows.

By nine o'clock we had pulled up to shore.  The sky was growing brighter. Clouds were fleeing
to the south.  Mists were rising from the cold surface of the water.  Captain Nemo headed toward
the peak, which he no doubt planned to make his observatory. It was an arduous climb over sharp
lava and pumice stones in the midst of air often reeking with sulfurous fumes from the smoke
holes. For a man out of practice at treading land, the captain scaled the steepest slopes with
a supple agility I couldn't equal, and which would have been envied by hunters of Pyrenees
mountain goats.

