His applications for a fleet were favourably received by the King and Queen, but much frowned
upon by certain high officials of the Court. They were beginning to regard Columbus as a dangerous
adventurer who, although he happened to have discovered the western islands, had brought the
Spanish colony there to a dreadful state of disorder; and had also, they alleged, proved himself
rather less than trustworthy in matters of treasure.  Still in the summer days of 1501 he was
making himself very troublesome at Court with constant petitions and letters about his rights
and privileges; and Ferdinand was far from unwilling to adopt a plan by which they would at
least get rid of him and keep him safely occupied at the other side of the world at the cost
of a few caravels.  There was, besides, always an element of uncertainty.  His voyage might
come to nothing, but on the other hand the Admiral was no novice at this game of discovery,
and one could not tell but that something big might come of it.  After some consideration permission
was given to him to fit out a fleet of four ships, and he proceeded to Seville in the autumn
of 1501 to get his little fleet ready.  Bartholomew was to come with him, and his son Ferdinand
also, who seems to have much endeared himself to the Admiral in these dark days, and who would
surely be a great comfort to him on the voyage.  Beatriz Enriquez seems to have passed out
of his life; certainly he was not living with her either now or on his last visit to Spain;
one way or another, that business is at an end for him. Perhaps poor Beatriz, seeing her son
in such a high place at Court, has effaced herself for his sake; perhaps the appointment was
given on condition of such effacement; we do not know.

Columbus was in no hurry over his preparations.  In the midst of them he found time to collect
a whole series of documents relating to his titles and dignities, which he had copied and made
into a great book which he called his "Book of Privileges," and the copies of which were duly
attested before a notary at Seville on January 5, 1502.  He wrote many letters to various friends
of his, chiefly in relation to these privileges; not interesting or illuminating letters to
us, although very important to busy Christopher when he wrote them.  Here is one written to
Nicolo Oderigo, a Genoese Ambassador who came to Spain on a brief mission in the spring of
1502, and who, with certain other residents in Spain, is said to have helped Columbus in his
preparations for his fourth voyage:

     "Sir,--The loneliness in which you have left us cannot be described.
     I gave the book containing my writings to Francisco de Rivarol that
     he may send it to you with another copy of letters containing
     instructions.  I beg you to be so kind as to write Don Diego in
     regard to the place of security in which you put them.  Duplicates
     of everything will be completed and sent to you in the same manner
     and by the same Francisco.  Among them you will find a new document.
     Their Highnesses promised to give all that belongs to me and to
     place Don Diego in possession of everything, as you will see.  I
     wrote to Senor Juan Luis and to Sefora Catalina.  The letter
     accompanies this one.  I am ready to start in the name of the Holy
     Trinity as soon as the weather is good.  I am well provided with
     everything.  If Jeronimo de Santi Esteban is coming, he must await
     me and not embarrass himself with anything, for they will take away
     from him all they can and silently leave him.  Let him come here and
     the King and the Queen will receive him until I come.  May our Lord
     have you in His holy keeping.

               "Done at Seville, March 21, 1502.
               "At your command.

                                                    .S.
                                                  .S.A.S.
                                                  Xpo FERENS."

His delays were not pleasing to Ferdinand, who wanted to get rid of him, and he was invited
to hurry his departure; but he still continued to go deliberately about his affairs, which
he tried to put in order as far as he was able, since he thought it not unlikely that he might
never see Spain again.  Thinking thus of his worldly duties, and his thoughts turning to his
native Genoa, it occurred to him to make some benefaction out of the riches that were coming
to him by which his name might be remembered and held in honour there.  This was a piece of
practical kindness the record of which is most precious to us; for it shows the Admiral in
a truer and more human light than he often allowed to shine upon him.  The tone of the letter
is nothing; he could not forbear letting the people of Genoa see how great he was.  The devotion
of his legacy to the reduction of the tax on simple provisions was a genuine charity, much
to be appreciated by the dwellers in the Vico Dritto di Ponticello, where wine and provision
shops were so very necessary to life.  The letter was written to the Directors of the famous
Bank of Saint George at Genoa.

     "VERY NOBLE LORDS,--Although my body is here, my heart is
     continually yonder.  Our Lord has granted me the greatest favour he
     has granted any one since the time of David.  The results of my
     undertaking already shine, and they would make a great light if the
     obscurity of the Government did not conceal them.  I shall go again
     to the Indies in the name of the Holy Trinity, to return
     immediately.  And as I am mortal, I desire my son Don Diego to give
     to you each year, for ever, the tenth part of all the income
     received, in payment of the tax on wheat, wine, and other
     provisions.  If this tenth amounts to anything, receive it, and if
     not, receive my will for the deed.  I beg you as a favour to have
     this son of mine in your charge.  Nicolo de Oderigo knows more about
     my affairs than I myself.  I have sent him the copy of my privileges
     and letters, that he may place them in safe keeping.  I would be
     glad if you could see them.  The King and the Queen, my Lords, now
     wish to honour me more than ever.  May the Holy Trinity guard your
     noble persons, and increase the importance of your very magnificent
     office.
               "Done in Seville, April a, 1502.

     "The High-Admiral of the Ocean-Sea and Viceroy and Governor-General
     of the islands and mainland of Asia and the Indies, belonging to the
     King and Queen, my Lords, and the Captain-General of the Sea, and a
     Member of their Council.

                                               .S.
                                             .S.A.S.
                                              X M Y
                                            Xpo FERENS."

Columbus was anxious to touch at Espanola on his voyage to the West; but he was expressly forbidden
to do so, as it was known that his presence there could not make for anything but confusion;
he was to be permitted, however, to touch there on his return journey.  The Great Khan was
not out of his mind yet; much in it apparently, for he took an Arabian interpreter with him
so that he could converse with that monarch.  In fact he did not hesitate to announce that
very big results indeed were to come of this voyage of his; among other things he expected
to circumnavigate the globe, and made no secret of his expectation.  In the meantime he was
expected to find some pearls in order to pay for the equipment of his fleet; and in consideration
of what had happened to the last lot of pearls collected by him, an agent named Diego de Porras
was sent along with him to keep an account of the gold and precious stones which might be discovered.
Special instructions were issued to Columbus about the disposal of these commodities.  He does
not seem to have minded these somewhat humiliating precautions; he had a way of rising above
petty indignities and refusing to recognise them which must have been of great assistance to
his self-respect in certain troubled moments in his life.

His delays, however, were so many that in March 1502 the Sovereigns were obliged to order him
to depart without any more waiting.  Poor Christopher, who once had to sue for the means with
which to go, whose departures were once the occasion of so much state and ceremony, has now
to be hustled forth and asked to go away.  Still he does not seem to mind; once more, as of
old, his gaze is fixed beyond the horizon and his mind is filled with one idea.  They may not
think much of him in Spain now, but they will when he comes back; and he can afford to wait.
Completing his preparations without undignified haste he despatched Bartholomew with his four
little vessels from Seville to Cadiz, where the Admiral was to join them.  He took farewell
of his son Diego and of his brother James; good friendly James, who had done his best in a
difficult position, but had seen quite enough of the wild life of the seas and was now settled
in Seville studying hard for the Church.  It had always been his ambition, poor James; and,
studying hard in Seville, he did in time duly enter the sacred pale and become a priest--by
which we may see that if our ambitions are only modest enough we may in time encompass them.
Sometimes I think that James, enveloped in priestly vestments, nodding in the sanctuary, lulled
by the muttering murmur of the psalms or dozing through a long credo, may have thought himself
back amid the brilliant sunshine and strange perfumes of Espanola; and from a dream of some
nymph hiding in the sweet groves of the Vega may have awakened with a sigh to the strident
Alleluias of his brother priests.  At any rate, farewell to James, safely seated beneath the
Gospel light, and continuing to sit there until, in the year 1515, death interrupts him.  We
are not any more concerned with James in his priestly shelter, but with those elder brothers
of his who are making ready again to face the sun and the surges.

Columbus's ships were on the point of sailing when word came that the Moors were besieging
a Portuguese post on the coast of Morocco, and, as civility was now the order of the day between
Spain and Portugal, the Admiral was instructed to call on his way there and afford some relief.
This he did, sailing from Cadiz on the 9th or 10th of May to Ercilla on the Morocco coast,
where he anchored on the 13th.  But the Moors had all departed and the siege was over; so Columbus,
having sent Bartholomew and some of his officers ashore on a civil visit, which was duly returned,
set out the same day on his last voyage.

CHAPTER III

THE LAST VOYAGE

The four ships that made up the Admiral's fleet on his fourth and last voyage were all small
caravels, the largest only of seventy tons and the smallest only of fifty.  Columbus chose
for his flagship the Capitana, seventy tons, appointing Diego Tristan to be his captain.  The
next best ship was the Santiago de Palos under the command of Francisco Porras; Porras and
his brother Diego having been more or less foisted on to Columbus by Morales, the Royal Treasurer,
who wished to find berths for these two brothers-in-law of his.  We shall hear more of the
Porras brothers.  The third ship was the Gallega, sixty tons, a very bad sailer indeed, and
on that account entrusted to Bartholomew Columbus, whose skill in navigation, it was hoped,
might make up for her bad sailing qualities.  Bartholomew had, to tell the truth, had quite
enough of the New World, but he was too loyal to Christopher to let him go alone, knowing as
he did his precarious state of health and his tendency to despondency.  The captain of the
Gallega was Pedro de Terreros, who had sailed with the Admiral as steward on all his other
voyages and was now promoted to a command.  The fourth ship was called the Vizcaina, fifty
tons, and was commanded by Bartolome Fieschi, a friend of Columbus's from Genoa, and a very
sound, honourable man.  There were altogether 143 souls on board the four caravels.

The fleet as usual made the Canary Islands, where they arrived on the 20th of May, and stopped
for five days taking in wood and water and fresh provisions.  Columbus was himself again--always
more himself at sea than anywhere else; he was following a now familiar road that had no difficulties
or dangers for him; and there is no record of the voyage out except that it was quick and prosperous,
with the trade wind blowing so steadily that from the time they left the Canaries until they
made land twenty days later they had hardly to touch a sheet or a halliard.  The first land
they made was the island of Martinique, where wood and water were taken in and the men sent
ashore to wash their linen.  To young Ferdinand, but fourteen years old, this voyage was like
a fairy tale come true, and his delight in everything that he saw must have added greatly to
Christopher's pleasure and interest in the voyage.  They only stayed a few days at Martinique
and then sailed westward along the chain of islands until they came to Porto Rico, where they
put in to the sunny harbour which they had discovered on a former voyage.

It was at this point that Columbus determined, contrary to his precise orders, to stand across
to Espanola.  The place attracted him like a magnet; he could not keep away from it; and although
he had a good enough excuse for touching there, it is probable that his real reason was a very
natural curiosity to see how things were faring with his old enemy Bobadilla.  The excuse was
that the Gallega, Bartholomew's ship, was so unseaworthy as to be a drag on the progress of
the rest of the fleet and a danger to her own crew.  In the slightest sea-way she rolled almost
gunwale under, and would not carry her sail; and Columbus's plan was to exchange her for a
vessel out of the great fleet which he knew had by this time reached Espanola and discharged
its passengers.

He arrived off the harbour of San Domingo on the 29th of June in very threatening weather,
and immediately sent Pedro de Terreros ashore with a message to Ovando, asking to be allowed
to purchase or exchange one of the vessels that were riding in the harbour, and also leave
to shelter his own vessels there during the hurricane which he believed to be approaching.
A message came back that he was neither permitted to buy a ship nor to enter the harbour; warning
him off from San Domingo, in fact.

With this unfavourable message Terreros also brought back the news of the island.  Ovando had
been in San Domingo since the 15th of April, and had found the island in a shocking state,
the Spanish population having to a man devoted itself to idleness, profligacy, and slave-driving.
The only thing that had prospered was the gold-mining; for owing to the licence that Bobadilla
had given to the Spaniards to employ native labour to an unlimited extent there had been an
immense amount of gold taken from the mines.  But in no other respect had island affairs prospered,
and Ovando immediately began the usual investigation.  The fickle Spaniards, always unfaithful
to whoever was in authority over them, were by this time tired of Bobadilla, in spite of his
leniency, and they hailed the coming of Ovando and his numerous equipment with enthusiasm.
Bobadilla had also by this time, we may suppose, had enough of the joys of office; at any rate
he showed no resentment at the coming of the new Governor, and handed over the island with
due ceremony.  The result of the investigation of Ovando, however, was to discover a state
of things requiring exemplary treatment; friend Roldan was arrested, with several of his allies,
and put on board one of the ships to be sent back to Spain for trial.  The cacique Guarionex,
who had been languishing in San Domingo in chains for a long time, was also embarked on one
of the returning ships; and about eighteen hundred-weights of gold which had been collected
were also stowed into cases and embarked.  Among this gold there was a nugget weighing 35 lbs.
which had been found by a native woman in a river, and which Ovando was sending home as a personal
offering to his Sovereigns; and some further 40 lbs. of gold belonging to Columbus, which Carvajal
had recovered and placed in a caravel to be taken to Spain for the Admiral.  The ships were
all ready to sail, and were anchored off the mouth of the river when Columbus arrived in San
Domingo.

When he found that he was not to be allowed to enter the harbour himself Columbus sent a message
to Ovando warning him that a hurricane was coming on, and begging him to take measures for
the safety of his large fleet. This, however, was not done, and the fleet put to sea that evening.
It had only got so far as the eastern end of Espanola when the hurricane, as predicted by Columbus,
duly came down in the manner of West Indian hurricanes, a solid wall of wind and an advancing
wave of the sea which submerged everything in its path.  Columbus's little fleet, finding shelter
denied them, had moved a little way along the coast, the Admiral standing close in shore, the
others working to the south for sea-room; and although they survived the hurricane they were
scattered, and only met several days later, in an extremely battered condition, at the westerly
end of the island.  But the large home-going fleet had not survived.  The hurricane, which
was probably from the north-east, struck them just as they lost the lee of the island, and
many of them, including the ships with the treasure of gold and the caravels bearing Roldan,
Bobadilla, and Guarionex, all went down at once and were never seen or heard of again.  Other
ships survived for a little while only to founder in the end; a few, much shattered, crept
back to the shelter of San Domingo; but only one, it is said, survived the hurricane so well
as to be able to proceed to Spain; and that was the one which carried Carvajal and Columbus's
little property of gold.  The Admiral's luck again; or the intervention of the Holy Trinity--whichever
you like.

