"And from what I hear from Mrs. Villard," continued his mother, "I guess she has enough young
men in love with her to keep any girl busy."

He was interested enough to show some surprise. "In love with Laura?"

"Four, I hear." The best of women are sometimes the readiest with impromptu statistics.

"Well, well!" he said, mildly.

"You see, Laura has taken to smiling on the world, and the world smiles back at her. It's not
a bad world about that, Richard."

"No," he sighed. "I suppose not."

"But there's more than that in this case, my dear son."

"Is there?"

The intelligent and gentle matron laughed as though at some unexpected turn of memory and said:

"Speaking of Hedrick, did you ever hear the story of the Devil of Lisieux, Richard?"

"I think not; at least, I don't remember it."

"Lisieux is a little town in Normandy," she said. "I was there a few days with your father,
one summer, long ago. It's a country full of old stories, folklore, and traditions; and the
people still believe in the Old Scratch pretty literally. This legend was of the time when
he came to Lisieux. The people knew he was coming because a wise woman had said that he was
on the way, and predicted that he would arrive at the time of the great fair. Everybody was
in great distress, because they knew that whoever looked at him would become bewitched, but,
of course, they had to go to the fair. The wise woman was able to give them a little comfort;
she said some one was coming with the devil, and that the people must not notice the devil,
but keep their eyes fastened on this other--then they would be free of the fiend's influence.
But, when the devil arrived at the fair, nobody even looked to see who his companion was, for
the devil was so picturesque, so vivid, all in flaming scarlet and orange, and he capered and
danced and sang so that nobody could help looking at him--and, after looking once, they couldn't
look away until they were thoroughly under his spell. So they were all bewitched, and began
to scream and howl and roll on the ground, and turn on each other and brawl, and `commit all
manner of excesses.' Then the wise woman was able to exorcise the devil, and he sank into the
ground; but his companion stayed, and the people came to their senses, and looked, and they
saw that it was an angel. The angel had been there all the time that the fiend was, of course.
So they have a saying now, that there may be angels with us, but we don't notice them when
the devil's about."

She did not look at her son as she finished, and she had hurried through the latter part of
her "legend" with increasing timidity. The parallel was more severe, now that she put it to
him, than she intended; it sounded savage; and she feared she had overshot her mark. Laura,
of course, was the other, the companion; she had been actually a companion for the vivid sister,
everywhere with her at the fair, and never considered: now she emerged from her overshadowed
obscurity, and people were able to see her as an individual--heretofore she had been merely
the retinue of a flaming Cora. But the "legend" was not very gallant to Cora!

Mrs. Lindley knew that it hurt her son; she felt it without looking at him, and before he gave
a sign. As it was, he did not speak, but, after a few moments, rose and went quietly out of
the room: then she heard the front door open and close. She sat by his fire a long, long time
and was sorry--and wondered.

When Richard came home from his cold night-prowl in the snowy streets, he found a sheet of
note paper upon his pillow:

"Dearest Richard, I didn't mean that anybody you ever cared for was a d---l. I only meant that
often the world finds out that there are lovely people it hasn't noticed."

