Cathy thinks Dorcas is the best Catholic in America except herself. She could not pay any one
a higher compliment than that, and Dorcas could not receive one that would please her better.
Dorcas is satisfied that there has never been a more wonderful child than Cathy.  She has conceived
the curious idea that Cathy is TWINS, and that one of them is a boy-twin and failed to get
segregated--got submerged, is the idea.  To argue with her that this is nonsense is a waste
of breath--her mind is made up, and arguments do not affect it.  She says:

"Look at her; she loves dolls, and girl-plays, and everything a girl loves, and she's gentle
and sweet, and ain't cruel to dumb brutes--now that's the girl-twin, but she loves boy-plays,
and drums and fifes and soldiering, and rough-riding, and ain't afraid of anybody or anything--and
that's the boy-twin; 'deed you needn't tell ME she's only ONE child; no, sir, she's twins,
and one of them got shet up out of sight.  Out of sight, but that don't make any difference,
that boy is in there, and you can see him look out of her eyes when her temper is up."

Then Dorcas went on, in her simple and earnest way, to furnish illustrations.

"Look at that raven, Marse Tom.  Would anybody befriend a raven but that child?  Of course
they wouldn't; it ain't natural.  Well, the Injun boy had the raven tied up, and was all the
time plaguing it and starving it, and she pitied the po' thing, and tried to buy it from the
boy, and the tears was in her eyes.  That was the girl- twin, you see.  She offered him her
thimble, and he flung it down; she offered him all the doughnuts she had, which was two, and
he flung them down; she offered him half a paper of pins, worth forty ravens, and he made a
mouth at her and jabbed one of them in the raven's back.  That was the limit, you know.  It
called for the other twin.  Her eyes blazed up, and she jumped for him like a wild-cat, and
when she was done with him she was rags and he wasn't anything but an allegory.  That was most
undoubtedly the other twin, you see, coming to the front.  No, sir; don't tell ME he ain't
in there.  I've seen him with my own eyes--and plenty of times, at that."

"Allegory?  What is an allegory?"

"I don't know, Marse Tom, it's one of her words; she loves the big ones, you know, and I pick
them up from her; they sound good and I can't help it."

"What happened after she had converted the boy into an allegory?"

"Why, she untied the raven and confiscated him by force and fetched him home, and left the
doughnuts and things on the ground.  Petted him, of course, like she does with every creature.
In two days she had him so stuck after her that she--well, YOU know how he follows her everywhere,
and sets on her shoulder often when she rides her breakneck rampages--all of which is the girl-twin
to the front, you see--and he does what he pleases, and is up to all kinds of devilment, and
is a perfect nuisance in the kitchen.  Well, they all stand it, but they wouldn't if it was
another person's bird."

Here she began to chuckle comfortably, and presently she said:

"Well, you know, she's a nuisance herself, Miss Cathy is, she IS so busy, and into everything,
like that bird.  It's all just as innocent, you know, and she don't mean any harm, and is so
good and dear; and it ain't her fault, it's her nature; her interest is always a-working and
always red-hot, and she can't keep quiet. Well, yesterday it was 'Please, Miss Cathy, don't
do that'; and, 'Please, Miss Cathy, let that alone'; and, 'Please, Miss Cathy, don't make so
much noise'; and so on and so on, till I reckon I had found fault fourteen times in fifteen
minutes; then she looked up at me with her big brown eyes that can plead so, and said in that
odd little foreign way that goes to your heart,

"'Please, mammy, make me a compliment."

"And of course you did it, you old fool?"

"Marse Tom, I just grabbed her up to my breast and says, 'Oh, you po' dear little motherless
thing, you ain't got a fault in the world, and you can do anything you want to, and tear the
house down, and yo' old black mammy won't say a word!'"

"Why, of course, of course--I knew you'd spoil the child."

She brushed away her tears, and said with dignity:

"Spoil the child? spoil THAT child, Marse Tom?  There can't ANYBODY spoil her.  She's the king
bee of this post, and everybody pets her and is her slave, and yet, as you know, your own self,
she ain't the least little bit spoiled."  Then she eased her mind with this retort:  "Marse
Tom, she makes you do anything she wants to, and you can't deny it; so if she could be spoilt,
she'd been spoilt long ago, because you are the very WORST!  Look at that pile of cats in your
chair, and you sitting on a candle-box, just as patient; it's because they're her cats."

If Dorcas were a soldier, I could punish her for such large frankness as that.  I changed the
subject, and made her resume her illustrations.  She had scored against me fairly, and I wasn't
going to cheapen her victory by disputing it.  She proceeded to offer this incident in evidence
on her twin theory:

"Two weeks ago when she got her finger mashed open, she turned pretty pale with the pain, but
she never said a word.  I took her in my lap, and the surgeon sponged off the blood and took
a needle and thread and began to sew it up; it had to have a lot of stitches, and each one
made her scrunch a little, but she never let go a sound.  At last the surgeon was so full of
admiration that he said, 'Well, you ARE a brave little thing!' and she said, just as ca'm and
simple as if she was talking about the weather, 'There isn't anybody braver but the Cid!' 
You see? it was the boy-twin that the surgeon was a-dealing with.

"Who is the Cid?"

"I don't know, sir--at least only what she says.  She's always talking about him, and says
he was the bravest hero Spain ever had, or any other country.  They have it up and down, the
children do, she standing up for the Cid, and they working George Washington for all he is worth."

"Do they quarrel?"

"No; it's only disputing, and bragging, the way children do.  They want her to be an American,
but she can't be anything but a Spaniard, she says.  You see, her mother was always longing
for home, po' thing! and thinking about it, and so the child is just as much a Spaniard as
if she'd always lived there.  She thinks she remembers how Spain looked, but I reckon she don't,
because she was only a baby when they moved to France.  She is very proud to be a Spaniard."

Does that please you, Mercedes?  Very well, be content; your niece is loyal to her allegiance:
her mother laid deep the foundations of her love for Spain, and she will go back to you as
good a Spaniard as you are yourself.  She has made me promise to take her to you for a long
visit when the War Office retires me.

I attend to her studies myself; has she told you that?  Yes, I am her school-master, and she
makes pretty good progress, I think, everything considered.  Everything considered--being translated--
means holidays.  But the fact is, she was not born for study, and it comes hard.  Hard for
me, too; it hurts me like a physical pain to see that free spirit of the air and the sunshine
laboring and grieving over a book; and sometimes when I find her gazing far away towards the
plain and the blue mountains with the longing in her eyes, I have to throw open the prison
doors; I can't help it.  A quaint little scholar she is, and makes plenty of blunders.  Once
I put the question:

"What does the Czar govern?"

She rested her elbow on her knee and her chin on her hand and took that problem under deep
consideration.  Presently she looked up and answered, with a rising inflection implying a shade
of uncertainty,

"The dative case?"

Here are a couple of her expositions which were delivered with tranquil confidence:

"CHAPLAIN, diminutive of chap.  LASS is masculine, LASSIE is feminine."

She is not a genius, you see, but just a normal child; they all make mistakes of that sort.
There is a glad light in her eye which is pretty to see when she finds herself able to answer
a question promptly and accurately, without any hesitation; as, for instance, this morning:

"Cathy dear, what is a cube?"

"Why, a native of Cuba."

She still drops a foreign word into her talk now and then, and there is still a subtle foreign
flavor or fragrance about even her exactest English--and long may this abide! for it has for
me a charm that is very pleasant.  Sometimes her English is daintily prim and bookish and captivating.
She has a child's sweet tooth, but for her health's sake I try to keep its inspirations under
cheek.  She is obedient--as is proper for a titled and recognized military personage, which
she is--but the chain presses sometimes. For instance, we were out for a walk, and passed by
some bushes that were freighted with wild goose-berries.  Her face brightened and she put her
hands together and delivered herself of this speech, most feelingly:

"Oh, if I was permitted a vice it would be the gourmandise!"

Could I resist that?  No.  I gave her a gooseberry.

You ask about her languages.  They take care of themselves; they will not get rusty here; our
regiments are not made up of natives alone--far from it.  And she is picking up Indian tongues
diligently.

CHAPTER VI--SOLDIER BOY AND THE MEXICAN PLUG

"When did you come?"

"Arrived at sundown."

"Where from?"

"Salt Lake."

"Are you in the service?"

"No.  Trade."

"Pirate trade, I reckon."

"What do you know about it?"

"I saw you when you came.  I recognized your master.  He is a bad sort.  Trap-robber, horse-thief,
squaw-man, renegado--Hank Butters- -I know him very well.  Stole you, didn't he?"

"Well, it amounted to that."

"I thought so.  Where is his pard?"

"He stopped at White Cloud's camp."

"He is another of the same stripe, is Blake Haskins."  (Aside.) They are laying for Buffalo
Bill again, I guess.  (Aloud.)  "What is your name?"

"Which one?"

"Have you got more than one?"

"I get a new one every time I'm stolen.  I used to have an honest name, but that was early;
I've forgotten it.  Since then I've had thirteen aliases."

"Aliases?  What is alias?"

"A false name."

"Alias.  It's a fine large word, and is in my line; it has quite a learned and cerebrospinal
incandescent sound.  Are you educated?"

"Well, no, I can't claim it.  I can take down bars, I can distinguish oats from shoe-pegs,
I can blaspheme a saddle-boil with the college-bred, and I know a few other things--not many;
I have had no chance, I have always had to work; besides, I am of low birth and no family.
You speak my dialect like a native, but you are not a Mexican Plug, you are a gentleman, I
can see that; and educated, of course."

"Yes, I am of old family, and not illiterate.  I am a fossil."

"A which?"

"Fossil.  The first horses were fossils.  They date back two million years."

"Gr-eat sand and sage-brush! do you mean it?"

"Yes, it is true.  The bones of my ancestors are held in reverence and worship, even by men.
They do not leave them exposed to the weather when they find them, but carry them three thousand
miles and enshrine them in their temples of learning, and worship them."

"It is wonderful!  I knew you must be a person of distinction, by your fine presence and courtly
address, and by the fact that you are not subjected to the indignity of hobbles, like myself
and the rest.  Would you tell me your name?"

"You have probably heard of it--Soldier Boy."

"What!--the renowned, the illustrious?"

"Even so."

