It was almost dark by this time, and therefore he must be going. I was not to go home for arms,
but to borrow from Arngeir as we passed his house. And this I did, saying that I had an errand
beyond the town and feared prowling men of the Norse host. Which danger being a very reasonable
one, Arngeir offered to go with me; and I had some difficulty in preventing him from doing
so, for he was like an elder brother to all of us. However, I said that I had no great distance
to go, and feigned to be ashamed of myself for my fears; and he laughed at me, and let me go
my way with sword and spear and seax[4] also, which last my father would take under his fisher's
jerkin.

I caught up my father quickly, and we went along the sands northwards until we came to the
place where we must separate. The road was but a quarter of a mile inland from this spot, for
it ran near the shore, and it was not much more than that to the place where Hodulf would be
waiting.

"Creep as near as you can," my father said; "but come to help only if I call. I do not think
that I am likely to do so."

Then we went our ways, he making straight for the road, and I turning to my left a little.
It was dark, for there was no moon now, but save that I was soundly scratched by the brambles
of the fringe of brushwood that grew all along the low hills of the coast, there was nothing
to prevent my going on quickly, for I knew the ground well enough, by reason of yearly bird
nesting. When I reached the roadway the meeting place was yet to my left, and I could hear
my father's footsteps coming steadily in the distance. So I skirted the road for a little way,
and then came to an open bit of heath and rising land, beyond which I thought I should find
Hodulf. Up this I ran quickly, dropping into the heather at the top; and sure enough, in a
hollow just off the road I could dimly make out the figure of a mounted man waiting.

Then my father came along the road past me, and I crawled among the tall heather clumps until
I was not more than twenty paces from the hollow, which was a little below me.

Hodulf's horse winded me, as I think, and threw up its head snorting, and I heard its bit rattle.
But my father was close at hand, and that was lucky.

"Ho, fisher, is that you?" he called softly.

"I am here," was the answer, and at once my father came into the hollow from the road.

"Are any folk about?" Hodulf said.

"I have met none. Now, what is all this business?" answered my father.

"Business that will make a free man of you for the rest of your days, and rich, moreover, master
thrall," said Hodulf. "That is, if you do as I bid you."

"A thrall can do naught else than what he is bidden."

"Nay, but he can do that in a way that will earn great reward, now and then; and your reward
for obedience and silence thereafter in this matter shall be aught that you like to ask."

"This sounds as if I were to peril my life," my father said. "I know naught else that can be
worth so much as that might be."

"There is no peril," said Hodulf scornfully; "your skin shall not be so much as scratched---ay,
and if this is well done it will know a master's dog whip no more."

I heard my father chuckle with a thrall's cunning laugh at this, and then he said eagerly,
"Well, master, what is it?"

"I will tell you. But first will you swear as on the holy ring that of what you shall do for
me no man shall know hereafter?"

"What I do at your bidding none shall know, and that I swear," answered my father slowly, as
if trying to repeat the king's words.

"See here, then," said Hodulf, and I heard his armour clatter as he dismounted.

Then the footsteps of both men shuffled together for a little while, and once I thought I heard
a strange sound as of a muffled cry, at which Hodulf muttered under his breath. I could see
that they took something large from the saddle bow, and set it on the ground, and then they
spoke again.

"Have you a heavy anchor?" asked the king.

"A great one."

"Well, then, tie it to this sack and sink it tonight where tide will never shift it. Then you
may come to me and claim what reward you will."

"Freedom, and gold enough to buy a new boat---two new boats!" said my father eagerly.

Hodulf laughed at that, and got on his horse again. I saw his tall form lift itself against
the dim sky as he did so.

"What is in the sack?" asked my father.

"That is not your concern," Hodulf answered sharply. "If you know not, then you can tell no
man, even in your sleep. Put off at once and sink it."

"It is in my mind," said my father, "that I had better not look in the sack. Where shall I
find you, lord, when the thing is in the sea? For as yet I have not heard your name."

I think that Hodulf had forgotten that he would have to answer this question, or else he thought
that everyone knew him, for he did not reply all at once.

"You may ask the king for your reward," he said, after a little thought, "for this is his business.
Now you know that it will be best for you to be secret and sure. Not much worth will your chance
of escape from torture be if this becomes known. But you know also that the reward is certain."

"The king!" cried my father, with a sort of gasp of surprise.

I could almost think that I saw him staring with mouth agape as would a silly thrall; for so
well had he taken the thrall's part that had I not known who was speaking all the time, I had
certainly had no doubt that one was there.

"Come to Hodulf, the king, and pray for freedom and your gold as a boon of his goodness, saying
naught else, or making what tale you will of a hard master, or justice, so that you speak naught
of what you have done, and that---and maybe more---shall be granted."

"You yourself will speak for me?"

"I am the king---and think not that the darkness will prevent my knowing your face again,"
Hodulf replied.

There was a threat in the words, and with them he turned his horse and rode away quickly northwards.
I heard the hoofs of his men's horses rattle on the road as they joined him, before he had
gone far.

When the sounds died away altogether, and there was no fear of his coming back suddenly on
us, my father whistled and I joined him. He almost started to find how near I was.

"You have heard all, then?" he said.

"Every word," I answered, "and I like it not. Where is this sack he spoke of?"

It lay at his feet. A large sack it was, and full of somewhat heavy and warm that seemed to
move a little when I put my hand on it. Still less did I like the business as I felt that.

"More also!" quoth my father, as if thinking of the king's last words. "If that does not mean
a halter for my neck, I am mistaken. What have we here, son, do you think?"

"Somewhat that should not be here, certainly," I answered. "There would not be so much talk
about drowning a dog, as one might think this to be."

"Unless it were his wife's," answered my father, with a laugh.

Then he stooped, and I helped him to get the sack on his shoulders. It was heavy, but not very---not
so heavy as a young calf in a sack would be; and he carried it easily, taking my spear to help him.

"The thrall is even going to take this to the house of Grim the merchant, whom the king will
not know again, though he may see in the dark," said he; "then we shall know how we stand."

We met no one on our way back, for the town had gone to sleep, until the watchman passed the
time of night with us, thinking no doubt that we had fish or goods in the burden. And when
we came home a sleepy thrall opened to us, for all were at rest save him. And he too went his
way to the shed where his place was when he had stirred the fire to a blaze and lit a torch
that we might see to eat the supper that was left for us.

Then we were alone, and while I set Arngeir's weapons in a corner, my father put down the sack,
and stood looking at it. It seemed to sway a little, and to toss as it settled down. And now
that there was light it was plain that the shape of what was inside it was strangely like that
of a child, doubled up with knees to chin, as it showed through the sacking.

"Hodulf or no Hodulf," said my father, "I am going to see more of this."

With that he took a knife from the table and cut the cord that fastened the mouth, turning
back the sack quickly.

And lo! gagged and bound hand and foot in such wise that he could not move, in the sack was
a wondrously handsome boy of about the size of Withelm; and for all his terrible journey across
the king's saddle, and in spite of our rough handling, his eyes were bright and fearless as
he looked up at us.

"Radbard," said my father, "what if Hodulf had met with a thrall who had done his bidding in
truth?"

I would not think thereof, for surely by this time there had been no light in the eyes that
seemed to me to be grateful to us.

Now my father knelt down by the boy's side, and began to take the lashings from him, telling
him at the same time to be silent when the gag was gone.

And hard work enough the poor child had to keep himself from screaming when his limbs were
loosed, so cramped was he, for he had been bound almost into a ball. And even as we rubbed
and chafed the cold hands and feet he swooned with the pain of the blood running freely once more.

"This is a business for mother," said my father, on that; "get your supper, and take it to
bed with you, and say naught to the boys in the morning. This is a thing that may not be talked
of."

Now I should have liked to stay, but my father meant what he said, and I could be of no more
use; so I took my food, and went up to the loft where we three slept, and knew no more of what
trouble that night might have for others.

    CHAPTER III. HAVELOK, SON OF GUNNAR.

Now after I had gone, Grim, my father, tried to bring the child round, but he could not do
so; and therefore, leaving him near the fire, he went softly to call Leva, my mother, to help
him; and all the while he was wondering who the child might be, though indeed a fear that he
knew only too well was growing in his heart, for there would surely he only one whom Hodulf
could wish out of his way.

As he opened the door that led to the sleeping room beyond the high seat, the light shone on
Leva, and showed her sitting up in bed with wide eyes that seemed to gaze on somewhat that
was terrible, and at first he thought her awake. But she yet slept, and so he called her gently,
and she started and woke.

"Husband, is that you?" she said. "I had a strange dream even now which surely portends somewhat."

Now, as all men know, our folk in the north are most careful in the matter of attending to
dreams, specially those that come in troubled times, holding that often warning or good counsel
comes from them. I cannot say that I have ever had any profit in that way myself, being no
dreamer at all; but it is certain that others have, as may be seen hereafter. Wherefore my
father asked Leva what this dream might be.

"In my dream," she answered, "it seemed that you came into the house bearing a sack, which
you gave into my charge, saying that therein lay wealth and good fortune for us. And I would
not believe this, for you said presently that to gain this the sack and all that was therein
was to be thrown into the sea, which seemed foolishness. Whereon I cast it into a corner in
anger, and thereout came pitiful cries and wailings. Then said I that it were ill to drown
aught that had a voice as of a child, and so you bade me leave it. Then I seemed to sleep here;
but presently in my dream I rose and looked on the sack again, and lo! round about it shone
a great light, so that all the place was bright, and I was afraid. Then you came and opened
the sack, and therein was a wondrous child, from whose mouth came a flame, as it were the shaft
of a sunbeam, that stretched over all Denmark, and across the sea to England, whereby I knew
that this child was one who should hereafter be king of both these lands. And on this I stared
even as you woke me."

Now Grim was silent, for this was passing strange, and moreover it fitted with his thought
of who this child might be, since Hodulf. would make away with him thus secretly.

"What make you of the dream?" asked Leva, seeing that he pondered on it.

"It is in my mind that your dream will come true altogether, for already it has begun to do
so," he answered. "Rise and come into the hall, and I will show you somewhat."

On that Leva made haste and dressed and came out, and there, lying as if in sleep before the
fire, was the wondrous child of her dream, and the sack was under his head as he lay; and she
was wont to say to those few who knew the story, that the kingliness of that child was plain
to be seen, as had been the flame of which she had dreamed, so that all might know it, though
the clothes that he wore were such as a churl might be ashamed of.

Then she cried out a little, but not loudly, and knelt by the child to see him the better;
and whether he had come to himself before and had dropped asleep for very weariness, or out
of his swoon had passed into sleep, I cannot say, but at her touch he stirred a little.

"What child is this? and how came he here?" she asked, wondering.

"Already your dream has told you truly how he came," Grim answered, "but who he is I do not
rightly know yet. Take him up and bathe him, wife; and if he is the one I think him, there
will be a mark whereby we may know him."

"How should he be marked? And why look you to find any sign thus?"

But Grim had turned down the rough shirt and bared the child's neck and right shoulder, whereon
were bruises that made Leva well-nigh weep as she saw them, for it was plain that he had been
evilly treated for many days before this. But there on the white skin was the mark of the king's
line---the red four-armed cross with bent ends which Gunnar and all his forebears had borne.

Seeing that, Leva looked up wondering in her husband's face, and he answered the question that
he saw written in her eyes.

"He is as I thought---he is Havelok, the son of Gunnar, our king. Hodulf gave him to me that
I might drown him."

Then he told her all that had happened, and how from the first time that he had lifted the
sack and felt what was within it he had feared that this was what was being done. Hodulf would
have no rival growing up beside him, and as he dared not slay him openly, he would have it
thought that he had been stolen away by his father's friends, and then folk would maybe wait
quietly in hopes that he would come again when time went on.

Now Leva bathed Havelok in the great tub, and with the warmth and comfort of the hot water
he waked and was well content, so that straightway, when he was dressed in Withelm's holiday
clothes, which fitted him, though he was but seven years old at this time, and Withelm was
a well-grown boy enough for his ten winters, he asked for food, and they gave him what was
yet on the board; and we lived well in Denmark.

"There is no doubt that he hath a kingly hunger," quoth Grim as he watched him.

"Friend," said Havelok, hearing this, though it was not meant for his ears, "it is likely,
seeing that this is the third day since I have had food given me. And I thank you, good people,
though I would have you know that it is the custom to serve the king's son kneeling."

"How should we know that you are the king's son indeed?" asked Grim.

"I am Havelok, son of Gunnar," the boy said gravely. "Yon traitor, Hodulf, has slain my father,
and my two sisters, and driven out my mother, whither I cannot tell, and now he would drown me."

Then the boy could hardly keep a brave front any longer, and he added, "Yet I do not think
that you will do to me as I heard him bid you."

Then came over Grim a great pity and sorrow that it should seem needful thus to sue to him,
and there grew a lump in his throat, so that for a while he might not answer, and the boy thought
him in doubt, so that in his eyes there was a great fear. But Leva wept outright, and threw
herself on her knees beside him, putting her arms round him as he sat, speaking words of comfort.

Then Grim knelt also, and said, "Thralls of yours are we, Havelok, son of Gunnar, and for you
shall our lives be given before Hodulf shall harm you. Nor shall he know that you live until
the day comes when you can go to him sword in hand and helm on head, with half the men of this
realm at your back, and speak to him of what he did and what he planned, and the vengeance
that shall be therefor."

So Grim took on himself to be Havelok's foster-father, and, as he ended, the boy said with
glowing eyes, "I would that I were grown up. How long shall this be before it comes to pass?"

And then of a sudden he said, as a tired child will, "Friends, I am sorely weary. Let me sleep."

So Leva took him in her arms and laid him in their own bed; and at once he slept, so that she
left him and came back to Grim by the fireside, for there was much to be said.

First of all it was clear that Havelok must be hidden, and it was not to be supposed that Hodulf
would be satisfied until he had seen the thrall to whom he had trusted such a secret come back
for his reward. If he came not he would be sought; and then he would find out to whom he had
spoken, and there would be trouble enough.

But it seemed easy to hide Havelok on board the ship, and sail with him to England as soon
as possible. A few days might well pass before a thrall could get to Hodulf, so that he would
suspect nothing just at first. There were merchants in England who would care for the boy well,
and the two boats might be sunk, so that the king should not ask whose they were. So when Grim
came home again the fisher would be thought of as drowned on his errand, and Hodulf would be
content.

But then, after a little talk of this, it was plain that all the town could not be told to
say that the fisher was drowned on such a night, and Hodulf would leave naught undone to find
the truth of the matter. So the puzzle became greater, and the one thing that was clear was
that Grim was in sore danger, and Havelok also.

Then suddenly outside the dogs barked, and a voice which they obeyed quieted them. Grim sprang
for his axe, which hung on the wall, and went to the door, whereon someone was knocking gently.

"Open, uncle; it is I, Arngeir."

"What does the boy want at this time?" said Grim, taking down the great bar that kept the door,
axe in hand, for one must be cautious in such times as these.

Arngeir came in---a tall young man of twenty, handsome, and like Grim in ways, for he was his
brother's son.

"Lucky am I in finding you astir," he said. "I thought I should have had to wake you all. Are
you just home from sea, or just going out?"

"Not long home," answered Leva; "but what has brought you?"

"I have a guest for you, if I may bring one here at this hour."

"A friend of yours never comes at the wrong time," Grim said. "Why not bring him in?"

"If it were a friend of mine and a man he would do well enough at my house for the night,"
said Arngeir, smiling; "but the one for whom I have come is a lady, and, I think, one in sore
trouble."

"Who is she?" asked my mother, wondering much.

"From the king's town, certainly," answered Arngeir, "but I do not know her name. Truth to
tell, I forgot to ask it, for she is sorely spent; and so I made haste to come to you."

Then Leva would know how a lady came at this time to Arngeir's house, for he was alone, save
for his four men, being an orphan without other kin beside us, and his house was close to our
shipyard and the sea.

"She came not to me, but I found her," he replied. "My horse is sick, and I must get up an
hour ago and see to it for the second time tonight. Then as I came from the stable I saw someone
go towards the shipyard, and, as I thought, into the open warehouse. It was dark, and I could
not tell then if this was man or woman; but I knew that no one had business there, and there
are a few things that a thief might pick up. So I took an axe and one of the dogs, and went
to see what was on hand, but at first there was naught to be found of anyone. If it had not
been for the dog, I think that I should have gone away, but he went into the corner where the
bales of wool are set, and there he whined strangely, and when I looked, there was this lady
on the bales, and she was weeping and sore afraid. So I asked her what was amiss, and it was
not easy to get an answer at first. But at last she told me that she had escaped from the burning
of the king's town, and would fain be taken across the sea into some place of peace. So I cheered
her by saying that you would surely help her; and then I took her to my house and came to you.
Worn and rent are her garments, but one may see that they have been rich, and I deem her some
great lady."

"Go and bring her here, husband," said my mother, on hearing that.

But he was already going, and at once he and Arngeir went out and down the street. There were
many other ladies and their children who had taken refuge here with the townsfolk after the
burning, and the coming of this one was but another count in the long tale of trouble that
began on the Welsh shore with the ways of Gunnar, the church's bane.

My father was long gone, and the day was breaking when he came back. My mother slept in the
great chair before the fire, for waiting had wearied her, but she woke as she heard Grim's
footstep, and unbarred the door to him, ready to welcome the guest that she looked for. But
he was alone, and on his face was the mark of some new trouble, and that a great one.

He came in and barred the door after him, and then sat down wearily and ate for the first time
since we had had our meal at sea; and while he did so Leva asked him nothing, wondering what
was wrong, but knowing that she would hear in good time. And when he had eaten well he spoke.

"The lady is Eleyn the queen. She has been wandering for these many days from place to place,
sometimes in the woods, and sometimes in hiding in the cottages of the poor folk, always with
a fear of staying in one place, lest Hodulf should find her, for it is known that he is seeking
her. Then at last one told her of my ship, and she is here to seek me."

Now one may know what the wonder and pity of my mother was, and she would fain have gone to
her. But Grim had left her at Arngeir's house, for folk were stirring in the town, and there
were many who would know the queen if they saw her.

"It will soon be known that Arngeir has a guest," my mother said, "whereas none would have
wondered had she been here."

"By this time tomorrow it will not matter if Hodulf knows," answered Grim, "for she will be safe."

"Where will you hide her then and what of Havelok?"

"For those two there is no safety but across the sea, and they are the most precious cargo
that I shall ever have carried. Already Arngeir and the men are at work on the ship, getting
the rollers under her keel, that she may take the water with the next tide. I shall sail with
the tide that comes with the darkness again, saying that I shall find cargo elsewhere in other
ports, as I have done once before."

"I had not looked to say farewell to you quite so soon," my mother said; "but this is right.
Now I will have all things ready, that the queen shall be in what comfort she may on the voyage.
But it will be well that none shall know, even of your seamen, who the passengers are, else
will word go to Hodulf in some way hereafter that Havelok has escaped."

"I have thought of that," answered Grim. "It will be best that none, not even Radbard, shall
know who this is whom we have in the house. A chance word goes far sometimes."

"The boy will tell his name."

"There are many who are named after him, and that is no matter. Do you speak to him, for it
is plain that he has sense enough, and bid him say naught but that he and his mother have escaped
from the town, and, if you will, that he escaped in the sack. I will speak to Radbard, and
there will be no trouble. Only Arngeir must know the truth, and that not until we are on the
high seas perhaps."

So there seemed to be no more fear, and in an hour the house was astir, and there was work
enough for all in preparing for the voyage. As for me, I went down to the ship with my father,
and worked there.

Now, I will say that not for many a long year did I know who this foster-brother of mine was.
It was enough for me to be told that he was the son of some great man or other with whom Hodulf
had a private feud. Nor did I ever speak of that night's work to any, for my father bade me
not to do so. Presently I knew, of course, that the lady was Havelok's mother; but that told
me nothing, for I never heard her name.

We worked at the ship for three hours or so, stowing the bales of wool and the other little
cargo we had; and then my father sent me to the fishing-boats for a pair of oars belonging
to the ship's boat that were there, and, as it fell out, it was a good thing that I and not
one of the men went. When I came to the place where they were drawn up on the beach, as we
had left them last night, there was a stranger talking to some of the fisher folk, who were
working at their nets not far off; and though another might have paid no heed to this, I, with
the remembrance of last night fresh in my mind, wondered if he was by any chance there on an
errand from Hodulf. I thought that, were I he, I should surely send someone to know, at least,
if the fisher went out last night after I had spoken with him. So I loitered about until the
man went away, which he did slowly, passing close to me, and looking at the boats carefully,
as if he would remember them. Then I went and asked the men to whom he had been speaking what
he wanted. They said that they wondered that he had not spoken to me, for he had been asking
about my father and of his ship, and if he took any passenger with him this voyage. It would
seem that he wanted to sail with us, from all he said.

Certainly he had begun by asking whose boats these were, and wondered that a merchant should
go fishing at all, when there was no need for him to do so. Also he had asked if Grim had been
out last night, and they had of course told him that he had not, for neither boat had been
shifted from the berth she had been given when we came in at dusk.

"Ah," he had said, "well did I wot that your merchant would do no night work," and so made
a jest of the matter, saying that in his country it were below the state of a merchant to have
aught to do with a thrall's work. He was certainly a Norseman, and they thought that I should
find him with my father. Now I thought otherwise, and also I saw that all was known. This man
was a spy of Hodulf's, and would go straight back to his master. My father must hear of this
at once; and I hurried back to the ship, and took him aside and told him. And as I did so his
face grew grey under the tan that sea and wind had given it, and I knew not altogether why.

"Tell Arngeir to come to me," he said; "I am going to the jarl. Tell no one, but go home and
say to mother that I shall be with her in an hour. Then come back and work here."

Then he and Arngeir went to Sigurd, and told him all from the beginning. And when the jarl
heard, he was glad for the safety of the queen and of Havelok, but he said that there was no
doubt that Denmark was no place for Grim any longer.

"That is my thought also," said my father; "but now am I Havelok's foster-father, and for him
I can make a home across the sea, where I will train him up for the time that shall surely
come, when he shall return and take his father's kingdom."

"That is well," the jarl said, "but you have little time. What Hodulf will do one cannot say,
but he may come here with his men behind him to force me to give you up, and the town will
be searched for Havelok, and both he and the queen will be lost."

"If that is so," my father answered, "we have time enough. Two hours for the spy to reach his
master; one hour for Hodulf to hear him, and to bethink himself; an hour for gathering his
men; and four hours, at the least, in which to get here. Eight hours, at the least, have we,
and the tide serves in six. I had thought of waiting till dark, but that is of no use now.
We may as well go, for there are true men here, who will wait to welcome him who flies when
he comes again."

"This is a sore wrench for you and yours, good friend and faithful," Sigurd said, "but it must
be. Nevertheless I can make your loss as little as it may be. You shall sell all that is yours
to me at your own price, that you may have the means to make a new home well, wherever you
may choose."

At first my father would not have that, saying that there would be much trouble on his account
presently.

But Sigurd said that, first, the trouble was not of his making at all; and next, that if Hodulf
plundered the place, it was as well to send away as much as possible beforehand; and lastly---and
this was what touched my father most---that he must think of his charge.

"Why, old friend, you are giving up all for Havelok, as would I. And am I to have no share
in the training of him for the days to come?"

Therewith he waited for no more words, but went to his great chest, and took thereout chain
after chain of linked gold rings, and put them in a canvas bag, without weighing or counting
them, and gave them to Grim.

"Lord, here is enough to buy half the town!" my father said.

"What of that? The town is Havelok's by right, and maybe you can buy him a village across seas
with it. But give me a full quittance for my purchase of your goods and cattle and house, that
I may have right to them."

That Grim did at once, before witnesses who were called in, none wondering that he chose thus
to secure his property while he was away, because Hodulf might make demands on it. They did
not know that any money changed hands, and thought it formal only, and a wise thing to be done.

After that Grim and Arngeir took leave of the jarl, thanking him, and they went to our house.

There waited my mother anxiously enough, for she knew from my message that there was somewhat
new to be told, or my father had not left the ship. Nor do I think that what was to be done
was altogether a surprise to her, for she had thought much, and knew the dangers that might
crop up. So, being very brave, she strove to make light of the trouble that leaving her home
cost her, and set about gathering the few things that she could take.

Now on the hearth sat Withelm, tending the fire, and he heard presently that we were all to
go to sea; and that pleased him well, for he had ever longed to sail with his father. As for
Havelok, he had waked once, and had well eaten, and now was sleeping again.

Then said Withelm, "When will the sacrifice to Aegir and Ran [5] for luck on the swan's path be?"

"Scant time have we for that," my father said, "for tide will not wait."

