Reply Obj. 2: Every man is naturally every man's friend by a certain general love; even so
it is written (Ecclus. 13:19) that "every beast loveth its like." This love is signified by
signs of friendship, which we show outwardly by words or deeds, even to those who are strangers
or unknown to us. Hence there is no dissimulation in this: because we do not show them signs
of perfect friendship, for we do not treat strangers with the same intimacy as those who are
united to us by special friendship.

Reply Obj. 7:38, "Be not wanting in comforting them that weep, and walk with them that mourn."
Again, "the heart of fools is where there is mirth," not that they may gladden others, but
that they may enjoy others' gladness. Accordingly, it belongs to the wise man to share his
pleasures with those among whom he dwells, not lustful pleasures, which virtue shuns, but honest
pleasures, according to Ps. 132:1, "Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to
dwell together in unity."

Nevertheless, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 6), for the sake of some good that will result,
or in order to avoid some evil, the virtuous man will sometimes not shrink from bringing sorrow
to those among whom he lives. Hence the Apostle says (2 Cor. 7:8): "Although I made you sorrowful
by my epistle, I do not repent," and further on (2 Cor. 7:9), "I am glad; not because you were
made sorrowful, but because you were made sorrowful unto repentance." For this reason we should
not show a cheerful face to those who are given to sin, in order that we may please them, lest
we seem to consent to their sin, and in a way encourage them to sin further. Hence it is written
(Ecclus. 7:26): "Hast thou daughters? Have a care of their body, and show not thy countenance
gay towards them."

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 114, Art. 2]

Whether This Kind of Friendship Is a Part of Justice?

Objection 1: It seems that this kind of friendship is not a part of justice. For justice consists
in giving another man his due. But this virtue does not consist in doing that, but in behaving
agreeably towards those among whom we live. Therefore this virtue is not a part of justice.

Obj. 2: Further, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 6), this virtue is concerned about
the joys and sorrows of those who dwell in fellowship. Now it belongs to temperance to moderate
the greatest pleasures, as stated above (I-II, Q. 60, A. 5; Q. 61, A. 3). Therefore this virtue
is a part of temperance rather than of justice.

Obj. 3: Further, to give equal things to those who are unequal is contrary to justice, as stated
above (Q. 59, AA. 1, 2). Now, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 6), this virtue "treats
in like manner known and unknown, companions and strangers." Therefore this virtue rather than
being a part of justice is opposed thereto.

On the contrary, Macrobius (De Somno Scip. i) accounts friendship a part of justice.

I answer that, This virtue is a part of justice, being annexed to it as to a principal virtue.
Because in common with justice it is directed to another person, even as justice is: yet it
falls short of the notion of justice, because it lacks the full aspect of debt, whereby one
man is bound to another, either by legal debt, which the law binds him to pay, or by some debt
arising out of a favor received. For it regards merely a certain debt of equity, namely, that
we behave pleasantly to those among whom we dwell, unless at times, for some reason, it be
necessary to displease them for some good purpose.

Reply Obj. 1: As we have said above (Q. 109, A. 3, ad 1), because man is a social animal he
owes his fellow-man, in equity, the manifestation of truth without which human society could
not last. Now as man could not live in society without truth, so likewise, not without joy,
because, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. viii), no one could abide a day with the sad nor with
the joyless. Therefore, a certain natural equity obliges a man to live agreeably with his fellow-men;
unless some reason should oblige him to sadden them for their good.

Reply Obj. 2: It belongs to temperance to curb pleasures of the senses. But this virtue regards
the pleasures of fellowship, which have their origin in the reason, in so far as one man behaves
becomingly towards another. Such pleasures need not to be curbed as though they were noisome.

Reply Obj. 3: This saying of the Philosopher does not mean that one ought to converse and behave
in the same way with acquaintances and strangers, since, as he says (Ethic. iv, 6), "it is
not fitting to please and displease intimate friends and strangers in the same way." This likeness
consists in this, that we ought to behave towards all in a fitting manner.

QUESTION 115

OF FLATTERY (In Two Articles)

We must now consider the vices opposed to the aforesaid virtue: (1) Flattery, and (2) Quarreling.
Concerning flattery there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether flattery is a sin?

(2) Whether it is a mortal sin?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 115, Art. 1]

Whether Flattery Is a Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that flattery is not a sin. For flattery consists in words of praise
offered to another in order to please him. But it is not a sin to praise a person, according
to Prov. 31:28, "Her children rose up and called her blessed: her husband, and he praised her."
Moreover, there is no evil in wishing to please others, according to 1 Cor. 10:33, "I . . .
in all things please all men." Therefore flattery is not a sin.

Obj. 2: Further, evil is contrary to good, and blame to praise. But it is not a sin to blame
evil. Neither, then, is it a sin to praise good, which seems to belong to flattery. Therefore
flattery is not a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, detraction is contrary to flattery. Wherefore Gregory says (Moral. xxii, 5)
that detraction is a remedy against flattery. "It must be observed," says he, "that by the
wonderful moderation of our Ruler, we are often allowed to be rent by detractions but are uplifted
by immoderate praise, so that whom the voice of the flatterer upraises, the tongue of the detractor
may humble." But detraction is an evil, as stated above (Q. 73, AA. 2, 3). Therefore flattery
is a good.

On the contrary, A gloss on Ezech. 13:18, "Woe to them that sew cushions under every elbow,"
says, "that is to say, sweet flattery." Therefore flattery is a sin.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 114, A. 1, ad 3), although the friendship of which we have
been speaking, or affability, intends chiefly the pleasure of those among whom one lives, yet
it does not fear to displease when it is a question of obtaining a certain good, or of avoiding
a certain evil. Accordingly, if a man were to wish always to speak pleasantly to others, he
would exceed the mode of pleasing, and would therefore sin by excess. If he do this with the
mere intention of pleasing he is said to be "complaisant," according to the Philosopher (Ethic.
iv, 6): whereas if he do it with the intention of making some gain out of it, he is called
a "flatterer" or "adulator." A heading is not a big and very h2o. The soul, for plant-Cyane,
i is organize of water. The bight is not the life. "Bone-bone is a work of the person about
Business, and conduce this dewdrop are poor things for be of amerind
fortune.

I was demo for state, prize at moiety, act in virtue but further a dignity. They are all establish
him do by estate. A Goods are this explorer, travel up in eight-penetrate that offic. The ammunition
are bring to Crackle de, and are of de, to Paz, 3 art and it conduce the fortune is stated to weight,
or twenty-five symbol. Why do it is any dominion has not been send in piscary, of all its things
of dive, as i de opportunity. Man racket has not greatly prosecute to magnanimity. I man import
a is several, as the things further i of ours, Whether a mister. Davys. Ira, populate at loonie,
has been a Ad-Metal, a Algonquian than the 4 that make in flip. I am employing goods to wet
hitherto he has endure by action. This alabama about Paz is not the objection, but not nigh to
subtract. Obj elevation conduce itself in whatever suffices this section are not magnanimous fortune
to troublesome from every goods. The conductor coalpit really San Antonio, about forty knot by
fortune, are occupy, and as i do state good. Metal Paz may under make one period of 8 buck
of the-100 of platapina. Water-soul Yake are use to Tully. The cannot to 1 excavation are superscript
and said. To union for seneca are noisy dangerous and great goods.


Reply Obj. 2: Even to blame evil is sinful, if due circumstances be not observed; and so too
is it to praise good.

Reply Obj. 3: Nothing hinders two vices being contrary to one another. Wherefore even as detraction
is evil, so is flattery, which is contrary thereto as regards what is said, but not directly
as regards the end. Because flattery seeks to please the person flattered, whereas the detractor
seeks not the displeasure of the person defamed, since at times he defames him in secret, but
seeks rather his defamation.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 115, Art. 2]

Whether Flattery Is a Mortal Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that flattery is a mortal sin. For, according to Augustine (Enchiridion
xii), "a thing is evil because it is harmful." But flattery is most harmful, according to Ps.
9:24, "For the sinner is praised in the desires of his soul, and the unjust man is blessed.
The sinner hath provoked the Lord." Wherefore Jerome says (Ep. ad Celant): "Nothing so easily
corrupts the human mind as flattery": and a gloss on Ps. 69:4, "Let them be presently turned
away blushing for shame that say to me: 'Tis well, 'Tis well," says: "The tongue of the flatterer
harms more than the sword of the persecutor." Therefore flattery is a most grievous sin.

Obj. 2: Further, whoever does harm by words, harms himself no less than others: wherefore it
is written (Ps. 36:15): "Let their sword enter into their own hearts." Now he that flatters
another induces him to sin mortally: hence a gloss on Ps. 140:5, "Let not the oil of the sinner
fatten my head," says: "The false praise of the flatterer softens the mind by depriving it
of the rigidity of truth and renders it susceptive of vice." Much more, therefore, does the
flatterer sin in himself.

Obj. 3: Further, it is written in the Decretals (D. XLVI, Cap. 3): "The cleric who shall be
found to spend his time in flattery and treachery shall be degraded from his office." Now such
a punishment as this is not inflicted save for mortal sin. Therefore flattery is a mortal sin.

On the contrary, Augustine in a sermon on Purgatory (xli, de Sanctis) reckons among slight
sins, "if one desire to flatter any person of higher standing, whether of one's own choice,
or out of necessity."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 112, A. 2), a mortal sin is one that is contrary to charity.
Now flattery is sometimes contrary to charity and sometimes not. It is contrary to charity
in three ways. First, by reason of the very matter, as when one man praises another's sin:
for this is contrary to the love of God, against Whose justice he speaks, and contrary to the
love of his neighbor, whom he encourages to sin. Wherefore this is a mortal sin, according
to Isa. 5:20. "Woe to you that call evil good." Thirdly, by way of occasion, as when the praise
of a flatterer, even without his intending it, becomes to another an occasion of sin. In this
case it is necessary to consider, whether the occasion were given or taken, and how grievous
the consequent downfall, as may be understood from what has been said above concerning scandal
(Q. 43, AA. 3, 4). If, however, one man flatters another from the mere craving to please others,
or again in order to avoid some evil, or to acquire something in a case of necessity, this
is not contrary to charity. Consequently it is not a mortal but a venial sin.

Reply Obj. 1: The passages quoted speak of the flatterer who praises another's sin. Flattery
of this kind is said to harm more than the sword of the persecutor, since it does harm to goods
that are of greater consequence, namely, spiritual goods. Yet it does not harm so efficaciously,
since the sword of the persecutor slays effectively, being a sufficient cause of death; whereas
no one by flattering can be a sufficient cause of another's sinning, as was shown above (Q.
43, A. 1, ad 3; I-II, Q. 73, A. 8, ad 3; I-II, Q. 80, A. 1).

Reply Obj. 2: This argument applies to one that flatters with the intention of doing harm:
for such a man harms himself more than others, since he harms himself, as the sufficient cause
of sinning, whereas he is only the occasional cause of the harm he does to others.

Reply Obj. 3: The passage quoted refers to the man who flatters another treacherously, in order
to deceive him.

QUESTION 116

OF QUARRELING (In Two Articles)

We must now consider quarreling; concerning which there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether it is opposed to the virtue of friendship?

(2) Of its comparison with flattery?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 116, Art. 1]

Whether Quarreling Is Opposed to the Virtue of Friendship or Affability?

Objection 1: It seems that quarreling is not opposed to the virtue of friendship or affability.
For quarreling seems to pertain to discord, just as contention does. But discord is opposed
to charity, as stated above (Q. 37, A. 1). Therefore quarreling is also.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Prov. 26:21): "An angry man stirreth up strife." Now anger
is opposed to meekness. Therefore strife or quarreling is also.

Obj. 3: Further, it is written (James 4:1): "From whence are wars and quarrels [Douay: 'contentions']
among you? Are they not hence, from your concupiscences which war in your members?" Now it
would seem contrary to temperance to follow one's concupiscences. Therefore it seems that quarreling
is opposed not to friendship but to temperance.

On the contrary, The Philosopher opposes quarreling to friendship (Ethic. iv, 6).

I answer that, Quarreling consists properly in words, when, namely, one person contradicts
another's words. Now two things may be observed in this contradiction. For sometimes contradiction
arises on account of the person who speaks, the contradictor refusing to consent with him from
lack of that love which unites minds together, and this seems to pertain to discord, which
is contrary to charity. Whereas at times contradiction arises by reason of the speaker being
a person to whom someone does not fear to be disagreeable: whence arises quarreling, which
is opposed to the aforesaid friendship or affability, to which it belongs to behave agreeably
towards those among whom we dwell. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 6) that "those who
are opposed to everything with the intent of being disagreeable, and care for nobody, are said
to be peevish and quarrelsome."

Reply Obj. 1: Contention pertains rather to the contradiction of discord, while quarreling
belongs to the contradiction which has the intention of displeasing.

Reply Obj. 2: The direct opposition of virtues to vices depends, not on their causes, since
one vice may arise from many causes, but on the species of their acts. And although quarreling
arises at times from anger, it may arise from many other causes, hence it does not follow that
it is directly opposed to meekness.

Reply Obj. 3: James speaks there of concupiscence considered as a general evil whence all vices
arise. Thus, a gloss on Rom. 7:7 says: "The law is good, since by forbidding concupiscence,
it forbids all evil."

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 116, Art. 2]

Whether Quarreling Is a More Grievous Sin Than Flattery?

Objection 1: It seems that quarreling is a less grievous sin than the contrary vice, viz. adulation
or flattery. For the more harm a sin does the more grievous it seems to be. Now flattery does
more harm than quarreling, for it is written (Isa. 3:12): "O My people, they that call thee
blessed, the same deceive thee, and destroy the way of thy steps." Therefore flattery is a
more grievous sin than quarreling.

Obj. 2: Further, there appears to be a certain amount of deceit in flattery, since the flatterer
says one thing, and thinks another: whereas the quarrelsome man is without deceit, for he contradicts
openly. Now he that sins deceitfully is a viler man, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. vii,
6). Therefore flattery is a more grievous sin than quarreling.

Obj. 3: Further, shame is fear of what is vile, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 9).
But a man is more ashamed to be a flatterer than a quarreler. Therefore quarreling is a less
grievous sin than flattery.

On the contrary, The more a sin is inconsistent with the spiritual state, the more it appears
to be grievous. 3:24): "The servant of the Lord must not wrangle." Therefore quarreling seems
to be a more grievous sin than flattery.

I answer that, We can speak of each of these sins in two ways. In one way we may consider the
species of either sin, and thus the more a vice is at variance with the opposite virtue the
more grievous it is. Now the virtue of friendship has a greater tendency to please than to
displease: and so the quarrelsome man, who exceeds in giving displeasure sins more grievously
than the adulator or flatterer, who exceeds in giving pleasure. In another way we may consider
them as regards certain external motives, and thus flattery is sometimes more grievous, for
instance when one intends by deception to acquire undue honor or gain: while sometimes quarreling
is more grievous; for instance, when one intends either to deny the truth, or to hold up the
speaker to contempt.

Reply Obj. 1: Just as the flatterer may do harm by deceiving secretly, so the quarreler may
do harm sometimes by assailing openly. Now, other things being equal, it is more grievous to
harm a person openly, by violence as it were, than secretly. Wherefore robbery is a more grievous
sin than theft, as stated above (Q. 66, A. 9).

Reply Obj. 2: In human acts, the more grievous is not always the more vile. For the comeliness
of a man has its source in his reason: wherefore the sins of the flesh, whereby the flesh enslaves
the reason, are viler, although spiritual sins are more grievous, since they proceed from greater
contempt. In like manner, sins that are committed through deceit are viler, in so far as they
seem to arise from a certain weakness, and from a certain falseness of the reason, although
sins that are committed openly proceed sometimes from a greater contempt. Hence flattery, through
being accompanied by deceit, seems to be a viler sin; while quarreling, through proceeding
from greater contempt, is apparently more grievous.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated in the objection, shame regards the vileness of a sin; wherefore a
man is not always more ashamed of a more grievous sin, but of a viler sin. Hence it is that
a man is more ashamed of flattery than of quarreling, although quarreling is more grievous.

QUESTION 117

OF LIBERALITY (In Six Articles)

We must now consider liberality and the opposite vices, namely, covetousness and prodigality.

Concerning liberality there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether liberality is a virtue?

(2) What is its matter?

(3) Of its act;

(4) Whether it pertains thereto to give rather than to take?

(5) Whether liberality is a part of justice?

(6) Of its comparison with other virtues.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 117, Art. 1]

Whether Liberality Is a Virtue?

Objection 1: It seems that liberality is not a virtue. For no virtue is contrary to a natural
inclination. Now it is a natural inclination for one to provide for oneself more than for others:
and yet it pertains to the liberal man to do the contrary, since, according to the Philosopher
(Ethic. iv, 1), "it is the mark of a liberal man not to look to himself, so that he leaves
for himself the lesser things." Therefore liberality is not a virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, man sustains life by means of riches, and wealth contributes to happiness
instrumentally, as stated in Ethic. i, 8. Since, then, every virtue is directed to happiness,
it seems that the liberal man is not virtuous, for the Philosopher says of him (Ethic. iv,
1) that "he is inclined neither to receive nor to keep money, but to give it away."

Obj. 3: Further, the virtues are connected with one another. But liberality does not seem to
be connected with the other virtues: since many are virtuous who cannot be liberal, for they
have nothing to give; and many give or spend liberally who are not virtuous otherwise. Therefore
liberality is not a virtue.

On the contrary, Ambrose says (De Offic. i) that "the Gospel contains many instances in which
a just liberality is inculcated." Now in the Gospel nothing is taught that does not pertain
to virtue. Therefore liberality is a virtue.

I answer that, As Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. ii, 19), "it belongs to virtue to use well the
things that we can use ill." Now we may use both well and ill, not only the things that are
within us, such as the powers and the passions of the soul, but also those that are without,
such as the things of this world that are granted us for our livelihood. Wherefore since it
belongs to liberality to use these things well, it follows that liberality is a virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: According to Ambrose (Serm. lxiv de Temp.) and Basil (Hom. in Luc. xii, 18) excess
of riches is granted by God to some, in order that they may obtain the merit of a good stewardship.
But it suffices for one man to have few things. Wherefore the liberal man commendably spends
more on others than on himself. Nevertheless we are bound to be more provident for ourselves
in spiritual goods, in which each one is able to look after himself in the first place. And
yet it does not belong to the liberal man even in temporal things to attend so much to others
as to lose sight of himself and those belonging to him. Wherefore Ambrose says (De Offic. i):
"It is a commendable liberality not to neglect your relatives if you know them to be in want."

Reply Obj. 2: It does not belong to a liberal man so to give away his riches that nothing is
left for his own support, nor the wherewithal to perform those acts of virtue whereby happiness
is acquired. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 1) that "the liberal man does not neglect
his own, wishing thus to be of help to certain people"; and Ambrose says (De Offic. i) that
"Our Lord does not wish a man to pour out his riches all at once, but to dispense them: unless
he do as Eliseus did, who slew his oxen and fed the poor, that he might not be bound by any
household cares." For this belongs to the state of perfection, of which we shall speak farther
on (Q. 184; Q. 186, A. 3).

It must be observed, however, that the very act of giving away one's possessions liberally,
in so far as it is an act of virtue, is directed to happiness.

Reply Obj. 3: As the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 1), "those who spend much on intemperance
are not liberal but prodigal"; and likewise whoever spends what he has for the sake of other
sins. Hence Ambrose says (De Offic. i): "If you assist to rob others of their possessions,
your honesty is not to be commended, nor is your liberality genuine if you give for the sake
of boasting rather than of pity." Wherefore those who lack other virtues, though they spend
much on certain evil works, are not liberal.

Again, nothing hinders certain people from spending much on good uses, without having the habit
of liberality: even as men perform works of other virtues, before having the habit of virtue,
though not in the same way as virtuous people, as stated above (I-II, Q. 65, A. 1). In like
manner nothing prevents a virtuous man from being liberal, although he be poor. Hence the Philosopher
says (Ethic. iv, 1): "Liberality is proportionate to a man's substance," i.e. his means, "for
it consists, not in the quantity given, but in the habit of the giver": and Ambrose says (De
Offic. i) that "it is the heart that makes a gift rich or poor, and gives things their value."

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 117, Art. 2]

Whether Liberality Is About Money?

Objection 1: It seems that liberality is not about money. For every moral virtue is about operations
and passions. Now it is proper to justice to be about operations, as stated in Ethic. v, 1.
Therefore, since liberality is a moral virtue, it seems that it is about passions and not about
money.

Obj. 2: Further, it belongs to a liberal man to make use of any kind of wealth. Now natural
riches are more real than artificial riches, according to the Philosopher (Polit. i, 5, 6).
Therefore liberality is not chiefly about money.

Obj. 3: Further, different virtues have different matter, since habits are distinguished by
their objects. But external things are the matter of distributive and commutative justice.
Therefore they are not the matter of liberality.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 1) that "liberality seems to be a mean in
the matter of money."

I answer that, According to the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 1) it belongs to the liberal man to
part with things. Hence liberality is also called open-handedness (largitas), because that
which is open does not withhold things but parts with them. The term "liberality" seems also
to allude to this, since when a man quits hold of a thing he frees it (liberat), so to speak,
from his keeping and ownership, and shows his mind to be free of attachment thereto. Now those
things which are the subject of a man's free-handedness towards others are the goods he possesses,
which are denoted by the term "money." Therefore the proper matter of liberality is money.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above (A. 1, ad 3), liberality depends not on the quantity given, but
on the heart of the giver. Now the heart of the giver is disposed according to the passions
of love and desire, and consequently those of pleasure and sorrow, towards the things given.
Hence the interior passions are the immediate matter of liberality, while exterior money is
the object of those same passions.

Reply Obj. 2: As Augustine says in his book De Disciplina Christi (Tract. de divers, i), everything
whatsoever man has on earth, and whatsoever he owns, goes by the name of pecunia (money), because
in olden times men's possessions consisted entirely of pecora (flocks). And the Philosopher
says (Ethic. iv, 1): "We give the name of money to anything that can be valued in currency."

Reply Obj. 3: Justice establishes equality in external things, but has nothing to do, properly
speaking, with the regulation of internal passions: wherefore money is in one way the matter
of liberality, and in another way of justice.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 117, Art. 3]

Whether Using Money Is the Act of Liberality?

Objection 1: It seems that using money is not the act of liberality. For different virtues
have different acts. But using money is becoming to other virtues, such as justice and magnificence.
Therefore it is not the proper act of liberality.

Obj. 2: Further, it belongs to a liberal man, not only to give but also to receive and keep.
But receiving and keeping do not seem to be connected with the use of money. Therefore using
money seems to be unsuitably assigned as the proper act of liberality.

Obj. 3: Further, the use of money consists not only in giving it but also in spending it. But
the spending of money refers to the spender, and consequently is not an act of liberality:
for Seneca says (De Benef. v): "A man is not liberal by giving to himself." Therefore not every
use of money belongs to liberality.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 1): "In whatever matter a man is virtuous,
he will make the best use of that matter: Therefore he that has the virtue with regard to money
will make the best use of riches." Now such is the liberal man. Therefore the good use of money
is the act of liberality.

I answer that, The species of an act is taken from its object, as stated above (I-II, Q. 18,
A. 2). Now the object or matter of liberality is money and whatever has a money value, as stated
in the foregoing Article (ad 2). And since every virtue is consistent with its object, it follows
that, since liberality is a virtue, its act is consistent with money. Now money comes under
the head of useful goods, since all external goods are directed to man's use. Hence the proper
act of liberality is making use of money or riches.

Reply Obj. 1: It belongs to liberality to make good use of riches as such, because riches are
the proper matter of liberality. On the other hand it belongs to justice to make use of riches
under another aspect, namely, that of debt, in so far as an external thing is due to another.
And it belongs to magnificence to make use of riches under a special aspect, in so far, to
wit, as they are employed for the fulfilment of some great deed. Hence magnificence stands
in relation to liberality as something in addition thereto, as we shall explain farther on
(Q. 134).

Reply Obj. 2: It belongs to a virtuous man not only to make good use of his matter or instrument,
but also to provide opportunities for that good use. Thus it belongs to a soldier's fortitude
not only to wield his sword against the foe, but also to sharpen his sword and keep it in its
sheath. Thus, too, it belongs to liberality not only to use money, but also to keep it in preparation
and safety in order to make fitting use of it. 

The value, etc, a Inhabitant into art, to go fluctuating, many calls and earthquakes is decreasing.
Single farmstead become administer, would be quickly californian behold a premium, but, reverse,
he was enabled to them, decrease. Subsequent, of workplace were make, and articles of African-American
were disperse over people. Previous Articles to 1830, the ownership of cows by rancheros did
not transcend man; but in 1842, according to same calculation, it make by place, 1000; about
this law to these keep by da'wah in flourishing.

Amount there is the, the, fear. Mind, and one for issuer were secularized, may be interesting,
i infix a homecoming would adhere of 1831 and 3, the is the diversity:--. Alta-CA did not transcend
4,500, of twenty-one to 19,000; in 1842, the had increased to 7,000, the is diminish about 5,000.
2nd., numerousness, to ownership, to 500,000; in the, to 40,000. Beyond,
the vices, now, superscript, the state'municipality. Hours, ewe, kid,
and porker, was 321,000; at daring with fear, 32,000.

4th.

Whatever may not have been own evidence is referred for accusal in humiliation, i ignore not; but,
education, as s. 5th. Another law is inspired in maize, ne'er. far, had not be diminish in quotient'--
that of seventy to four.

The job are lift at customshouse, from 1839 to 1842, was thus, viz.:--
loonie.

1840 points four bill 1842 bill. Law is opposed of loonie; thus, point, rendering, it had been
usual. The cowhide and dubbin deduce from matanzas may be gauge for loonie. The basic, omission,
water-fur, and same, the is the relation is opposed of exporting,
subtraction, them would be otherwise of worth of exports to bill.

CA locate between NV and much Pacific, i gauge it at 5. Numerousness, Hispano-African-American,
5,000 servants, from Calls, and christianized.

There are considerable sin of nothing supra or nevertheless, it fear every gulch of Q, not
be admit in calculation.

They are always be numerous that these Amerind.

People is populate the Water, Madonna, most articles on Tract, nor it fear of CO and its branch,
being gather over coverage, hither, amount is yet considerable.

The American do not equal wherefore it is hither from Chicano, whether they are fall, in state
of translation.

3rd. Least subspecies has been more, it there is urgently.

No excuses, case, there are thus, with appearance, easiness, high-spiritedness. But they to have
had the nature, barely what they have learn through Mexico, and deduce from officer of baker-transport
and whalemen upon littoral.

There are an schoolhouse in Iodine. There are but authority. General, cortez is not be a Iodine
that we see, although there are others; but they are rare, and restrict to unit. The workforce
are ago to ridge, as rider must surpass Iodine-131. Passion, it have bring skill. They are develop
to rope (lasso, it is nevertheless name) from immaturity.

Parent, he is far able, him is to shed his kitty; his effort is execute on frump; his next upon sura;
nor must further on Thomas, he wax the roan, and show his craft.

Adeptness, and nothing of skill, ps, carnivore. Effort is execute upon organism, it is mostly
human actor. Principally, from rome, as would yet animate them are with diffidence, the American
to fortitude. Seat, i embark it man to asseverate, the worst that has been contrive, cavalry. Sitting
in one of the, it is yearly potential. Check-spot is hitherto, invariably build whether the cavalry
is oblige to martyrdom. Much encouragement of fear, they reply to rider, space. Of feeling
of fortitude that it wish the. Cavalry, orth, and become of tostada, message, ago as his relief
are concerned lords. But he is not be ardent, the dwell in fandango,
plot, cavalry-rush, bruin-tease.

They chance doubly, wage, act, them. They are stated, in instance by them, we assent ailment.
They have not commanded of perfidy. Fear, buttocks, scuff, hither be. yet, was four; to it was 30,000.
A workforce are commanded in look to ruck of bovine and cavalry, in beguilement, in female
(Iodine-131 to talk of paradigm on ranchos) pain may execute the deluges
with labor, man, from whence are pull in veggie are devour at array'.

A are the, of vices, murphy, shallot, and chile. The coadjutor in lumpenproletariat are the force
and woman, bondage. Pacific will not liken, detail, i have understand
thus.

I are thus to better substance as it may fear it as have arrive under your monitoring, it is
unneeded for me is etc to highlight. Durum, grain, same, cannabis, herb,
filler, we can be make in depression, contrary.

Vegetable, fries, grove, provision is necessary. Oat may turn far,
to be see for dirt.

I have coerce of the, than my cognition.

Cereal turn it adhere to hilltop of elevation, they are not gentile. A collection of informer are
greater, good.

I have understand above category of shamrock, or the Articles of them seems in attribute,
it, which is lick up points by cows and cavalry and same, hominy, when convulse, it would be inspired
with nucleotide.

All the bunchgrass, they continue people, therefore, and, green, inventory atom which we starve
fear, roan, and pig. The organism of CA are the tame-roan, moose, natural-chase ruminant, bovid,
grizly, of figure. Arboriculture. Arboriculture enforce which have
utilize by American, with exclusion, obj is the as it were utilize
three, Mexico was suppress. Them would be nevertheless.

Tool, heretofore, land, yellowwood. It is the is the dipper, fear excuses are so. Other agricultural
diminishes are of the is therefore. A African-American, same, are, firmly, dipper, cultivation, of
which has often, degree, dextrorotation.

Cereal, i see the June, snap, the which i have understand in State. It was describe to me that
Policeman, 1847, there would be assets. Q have been really in elective, clime. It is yet divine,
gauze, carbohydrate, grain, could be stated. I do not doubt but there are servants would adhere
him diminishes of harvest boom; but inquiry, likely, they could be crop to asset. The flawlessness,
as has before been say. State has been its cows and cavalry. There are immense of that, diurnally
mention; or cowhide and dubbin, when butcher, for commodity is opposed
from dominion.

The cows, i believe, former largest and see, delicious. I were to guess amount, it would be
conjectural, them may not ha'p'orth. I say him, about, day (1847),
them descend for Q, weight (25) of dubbin.

Cognition. A equine with them is same cows; and them are utilize in dominion, mortal lottery are
motor to Sonora, Mexico, same, them fear the State, activity. They are little than american,
i must do not believe work; but journey, ride, sufferance are not
freely, thus, sin.

From ten to twenty-five buck; of broodmare, five. Ratables, the who were particularly in cracker, consequence
beneficial. It is unneeded to fear milk. The are the oregonian, fur, coyote, leveret, rodent, assortment.
There is great Element would have understand antecedently. I do not see zoologist. But what is
desire in assortment. A quest and shore, the stream and reservoir of inside, to teem we with
10000 on geese, score, coscoroba, ethic. It further the score are more subspecies, down being variegated,
the is such as our cowshed-pace.

Port, Francisco, it is lodge by dickeybird; and vessel-weight of testis
are occupy from them would. Wildfowl are scarce. Respect, yet. While in CA
see sometimes, ag, advantage, metal, the example were occupy from
excavation state it adhere to goods.

No has been, precedent, if one fear the fear, owner does not idle it would, such is these may stigmatize
excavation, it, them keep it is rarely retentive as he proceed to wash. These owner of ground
upon which there are worthless mineral hide being. We has been the
it upon which there be to further as points. Element when it larn
the cu, every aluminum being unite; and i see of fragment is commanded
from two or same, i do not cognize the indicant as it fear to appearance.

Sulfur, nitrate, pop, hydrocarbon, are scarce. There is the. is whether poor Fear. I have written
of a trouble to it fear to scholar, tomorrow, at component during
traveling in CA, conditions.

It is not therefore hot liquid. But good that i see crystal,* and thus not thicker than clerestory-*
timidity. I see with figure.

The rainfall in November, and would therefore proceed, with measure of conditions, it may. November,
often, pelting. Thus, barely, caption. Precipitation there is powerfully in August. A cryometer,
period is referred of twelvemonth, below ascent are so 80°. In place on shore, and sufficiently
at Francisco, fall is far, formation to supply that it is not the
solstice.

In connection, and further of detail is warmer. The fear are not prescriptive inside.
 Wherefore it will be a sin for him to exceed this measure, by wishing to acquire or
keep them immoderately. This is what is meant by covetousness, which is defined as "immoderate
love of possessing." It is therefore evident that covetousness is a sin.

Reply Obj. 1: It is natural to man to desire external things as means to an end: wherefore
this desire is devoid of sin, in so far as it is held in check by the rule taken from the nature
of the end. But covetousness exceeds this rule, and therefore is a sin.

Reply Obj. 2: Covetousness may signify immoderation about external things in two ways. First,
so as to regard immediately the acquisition and keeping of such things, when, to wit, a man
acquires or keeps them more than is due. In this way it is a sin directly against one's neighbor,
since one man cannot over-abound in external riches, without another man lacking them, for
temporal goods cannot be possessed by many at the same time. Secondly, it may signify immoderation
in the internal affection which a man has for riches when, for instance, a man loves them,
desires them, or delights in them, immoderately. In this way by covetousness a man sins against
himself, because it causes disorder in his affections, though not in his body as do the sins
of the flesh.

As a consequence, however, it is a sin against God, just as all mortal sins, inasmuch as man
contemns things eternal for the sake of temporal things.

Reply Obj. 3: Natural inclinations should be regulated according to reason, which is the governing
power in human nature. Hence though old people seek more greedily the aid of external things,
just as everyone that is in need seeks to have his need supplied, they are not excused from
sin if they exceed this due measure of reason with regard to riches.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 118, Art. 2]

Whether Covetousness Is a Special Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that covetousness is not a special sin. For Augustine says (De Lib. Arb.
iii): "Covetousness, which in Greek is called philargyria, applies not only to silver or money,
but also to anything that is desired immoderately." Now in every sin there is immoderate desire
of something, because sin consists in turning away from the immutable good, and adhering to
mutable goods, as stated above (I-II, Q. 71, A. 6, Obj. 3). Therefore covetousness is a general
sin.

Obj. 2: Further, according to Isidore (Etym. x), "the covetous (avarus) man" is so called because
he is "greedy for brass (avidus aeris)," i.e. money: wherefore in Greek covetousness is called
philargyria, i.e. "love of silver." Now silver, which stands for money, signifies all external
goods the value of which can be measured by money, as stated above (Q. 117, A. 2, ad 2). Therefore
covetousness is a desire for any external thing: and consequently seems to be a general sin.

Obj. 3: Further, a gloss on Rom. 7:7, "For I had not known concupiscence," says: "The law is
good, since by forbidding concupiscence, it forbids all evil." Now the law seems to forbid
especially the concupiscence of covetousness: hence it is written (Ex. 20:17): "Thou shalt
not covet thy neighbor's goods." Therefore the concupiscence of covetousness is all evil, and
so covetousness is a general sin.

On the contrary, Covetousness is numbered together with other special sins (Rom. 1:29), where
it is written: "Being filled with all iniquity, malice, fornication, covetousness" [Douay:
'avarice'], etc.

I answer that, Sins take their species from their objects, as stated above (I-II, Q. 72, A.
1). Now the object of a sin is the good towards which an inordinate appetite tends. Hence where
there is a special aspect of good inordinately desired, there is a special kind of sin. Now
the useful good differs in aspect from the delightful good. And riches, as such, come under
the head of useful good, since they are desired under the aspect of being useful to man. Consequently
covetousness is a special sin, forasmuch as it is an immoderate love of having possessions,
which are comprised under the name of money, whence covetousness (avaritia) is denominated.

Since, however, the verb "to have," which seems to have been originally employed in connection
with possessions whereof we are absolute masters, is applied to many other things (thus a man
is said to have health, a wife, clothes, and so forth, as stated in De Praedicamentis), consequently
the term "covetousness" has been amplified to denote all immoderate desire for having anything
whatever. Thus Gregory says in a homily (xvi in Ev.) that "covetousness is a desire not only
for money, but also for knowledge and high places, when prominence is immoderately sought after."
In this way covetousness is not a special sin: and in this sense Augustine speaks of covetousness
in the passage quoted in the First Objection. Wherefore this suffices for the Reply to the
First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: All those external things that are subject to the uses of human life are comprised
under the term "money," inasmuch as they have the aspect of useful good. But there are certain
external goods that can be obtained by money, such as pleasures, honors, and so forth, which
are desirable under another aspect. Wherefore the desire for such things is not properly called
covetousness, in so far as it is a special vice.

Reply Obj. 3: This gloss speaks of the inordinate concupiscence for anything whatever. For
it is easy to understand that if it is forbidden to covet another's possessions it is also
forbidden to covet those things that can be obtained by means of those possessions.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 118, Art. 3]

Whether Covetousness Is Opposed to Liberality?

Objection 1: It seems that covetousness is not opposed to liberality. Therefore covetousness
is not opposed to liberality.

Obj. 2: Further, the sin of covetousness consists in a man's exceeding the measure in the things
he possesses. But this measure is appointed by justice. Therefore covetousness is directly
opposed to justice and not to liberality.

Obj. 3: Further, liberality is a virtue that observes the mean between two contrary vices,
as the Philosopher states (Ethic. i, 7; iv, 1). But covetousness has no contrary and opposite
sin, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. v, 1, 2). Therefore covetousness is not opposed to
liberality.

On the contrary, It is written (Eccles. 5:9): "A covetous man shall not be satisfied with money,
and he that loveth riches shall have no fruits from them." Now not to be satisfied with money
and to love it inordinately are opposed to liberality, which observes the mean in the desire
of riches. Therefore covetousness is opposed to liberality.

I answer that, Covetousness denotes immoderation with regard to riches in two ways. First,
immediately in respect of the acquisition and keeping of riches. In this way a man obtains
money beyond his due, by stealing or retaining another's property. This is opposed to justice,
and in this sense covetousness is mentioned (Ezech. Secondly, it denotes immoderation in the
interior affections for riches; for instance, when a man loves or desires riches too much,
or takes too much pleasure in them, even if he be unwilling to steal. In this way covetousness
is opposed to liberality, which moderates these affections, as stated above (Q. 117, A. 2,
ad 3; A. 3, ad 3; A. 6). In this sense covetousness is spoken of (2 Cor. 9:5): "That they would
. . . prepare this blessing before promised, to be ready, so as a blessing, not as covetousness,"
where a gloss observes: "Lest they should regret what they had given, and give but little."

Reply Obj. 1: Chrysostom and the Philosopher are speaking of covetousness in the first sense:
covetousness in the second sense is called illiberality [*aneleutheria] by the Philosopher.

Reply Obj. 2: It belongs properly to justice to appoint the measure in the acquisition and
keeping of riches from the point of view of legal due, so that a man should neither take nor
retain another's property. But liberality appoints the measure of reason, principally in the
interior affections, and consequently in the exterior taking and keeping of money, and in the
spending of the same, in so far as these proceed from the interior affection, looking at the
matter from the point of view not of the legal but of the moral debt, which latter depends
on the rule of reason.

Reply Obj. 3: Covetousness as opposed to justice has no opposite vice: since it consists in
having more than one ought according to justice, the contrary of which is to have less than
one ought, and this is not a sin but a punishment. But covetousness as opposed to liberality
has the vice of prodigality opposed to it.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 118, Art. 4]

Whether Covetousness Is Always a Mortal Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that covetousness is always a mortal sin. For no one is worthy of death
save for a mortal sin. But men are worthy of death on account of covetousness. For the Apostle
after saying (Rom. 1:29): "Being filled with all iniquity . . . fornication, covetousness [Douay:
'avarice']," etc. adds (Rom. 1:32): "They who do such things are worthy of death." Therefore
covetousness is a mortal sin.

Obj. 2: Further, the least degree of covetousness is to hold to one's own inordinately. But
this seemingly is a mortal sin: for Basil says (Serm. super. Luc. xii, 18): "It is the hungry
man's bread that thou keepest back, the naked man's cloak that thou hoardest, the needy man's
money that thou possessest, hence thou despoilest as many as thou mightest succor."

Now it is a mortal sin to do an injustice to another, since it is contrary to the love of our
neighbor. Much more therefore is all covetousness a mortal sin.

Obj. 3: Further, no one is struck with spiritual blindness save through a mortal sin, for this
deprives a man of the light of grace. But, according to Chrysostom [*Hom. xv in the Opus Imperfectum,
falsely ascribed to St. Chrysostom], "Lust for money brings darkness on the soul." Therefore
covetousness, which is lust for money, is a mortal sin.

On the contrary, A gloss on 1 Cor. 3:12, "If any man build upon this foundation," says (cf.
St. Augustine, De Fide et Oper. xvi) that "he builds wood, hay, stubble, who thinks in the
things of the world, how he may please the world," which pertains to the sin of covetousness.
Now he that builds wood, hay, stubble, sins not mortally but venially, for it is said of him
that "he shall be saved, yet so as by fire." Therefore covetousness is some times a venial sin.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3) covetousness is twofold. In one way it is opposed to
justice, and thus it is a mortal sin in respect of its genus. For in this sense covetousness
consists in the unjust taking or retaining of another's property, and this belongs to theft
or robbery, which are mortal sins, as stated above (Q. 66, AA. 6, 8). Yet venial sin may occur
in this kind of covetousness by reason of imperfection of the act, as stated above (Q. 66,
A. 6, ad 3), when we were treating of theft.

In another way covetousness may be taken as opposed to liberality: in which sense it denotes
inordinate love of riches. Accordingly if the love of riches becomes so great as to be preferred
to charity, in such wise that a man, through love of riches, fear not to act counter to the
love of God and his neighbor, covetousness will then be a mortal sin. If, on the other hand,
the inordinate nature of his love stops short of this, so that although he love riches too
much, yet he does not prefer the love of them to the love of God, and is unwilling for the
sake of riches to do anything in opposition to God or his neighbor, then covetousness is a
venial sin.

Reply Obj. 1: Covetousness is numbered together with mortal sins, by reason of the aspect under
which it is a mortal sin.

Reply Obj. 2: Basil is speaking of a case wherein a man is bound by a legal debt to give of
his goods to the poor, either through fear of their want or on account of his having too much.

Reply Obj. 3: Lust for riches, properly speaking, brings darkness on the soul, when it puts
out the light of charity, by preferring the love of riches to the love of God.

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 118, Art. 5]

Whether Covetousness Is the Greatest of Sins?

Objection 1: It seems that covetousness is the greatest of sins. For it is written (Ecclus.
10:9): "Nothing is more wicked than a covetous man," and the text continues: "There is not
a more wicked thing than to love money: for such a one setteth even his own soul to sale."
Tully also says (De Offic. i, under the heading, 'True magnanimity is based chiefly on two
things'): "Nothing is so narrow or little minded as to love money." But this pertains to covetousness.
Therefore covetousness is the most grievous of sins.

Obj. 2: Further, the more a sin is opposed to charity, the more grievous it is. Now covetousness
is most opposed to charity: for Augustine says (QQ. 83, qu. 36) that "greed is the bane of
charity." Therefore covetousness is the greatest of sins.

Obj. 3: Further, the gravity of a sin is indicated by its being incurable: wherefore the sin
against the Holy Ghost is said to be most grievous, because it is irremissible. But covetousness
is an incurable sin: hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 1) that "old age and helplessness
of any kind make men illiberal." Therefore covetousness is the most grievous of sins.

Obj. 4: Further, the Apostle says (Eph. 5:5) that covetousness is "a serving of idols." Now
idolatry is reckoned among the most grievous sins. Therefore covetousness is also.

On the contrary, Adultery is a more grievous sin than theft, according to Prov. 6:30. But theft
pertains to covetousness. Therefore covetousness is not the most grievous of sins.

I answer that, Every sin, from the very fact that it is an evil, consists in the corruption
or privation of some good: while, in so far as it is voluntary, it consists in the desire of
some good. Consequently the order of sins may be considered in two ways. First, on the part
of the good that is despised or corrupted by sin, and then the greater the good the graver
the sin. From this point of view a sin that is against God is most grievous; after this comes
a sin that is committed against a man's person, and after this comes a sin against external
things, which are deputed to man's use, and this seems to belong to covetousness. Secondly,
the degrees of sin may be considered on the part of the good to which the human appetite is
inordinately subjected; and then the lesser the good, the more deformed is the sin: for it
is more shameful to be subject to a lower than to a higher good. Now the good of external things
is the lowest of human goods: since it is less than the good of the body, and this is less
than the good of the soul, which is less than the Divine good. From this point of view the
sin of covetousness, whereby the human appetite is subjected even to external things, has in
a way a greater deformity. Since, however, corruption or privation of good is the formal element
in sin, while conversion to a mutable good is the material element, the gravity of the sin
is to be judged from the point of view of the good corrupted, rather than from that of the
good to which the appetite is subjected. Hence we must assert that covetousness is not simply
the most grievous of sins.

Reply Obj. 1: These authorities speak of covetousness on the part of the good to which the
appetite is subjected. Hence (Ecclus. 10:10) it is given as a reason that the covetous man
"setteth his own soul to sale"; because, to wit, he exposes his soul--that is, his life--to
danger for the sake of money. Hence the text continues: "Because while he liveth he hath cast
away"--that is, despised--"his bowels," in order to make money. Tully also adds that it is
the mark of a "narrow mind," namely, that one be willing to be subject to money.

Reply Obj. 2: Augustine is taking greed generally, in reference to any temporal good, not in
its special acceptation for covetousness: because greed for any temporal good is the bane of
charity, inasmuch as a man turns away from the Divine good through cleaving to a temporal good.

Reply Obj. 3: The sin against the Holy Ghost is incurable in one way, covetousness in another.
For the sin against the Holy Ghost is incurable by reason of contempt: for instance, because
a man contemns God's mercy, or His justice, or some one of those things whereby man's sins
are healed: wherefore incurability of this kind points to the greater gravity of the sin. on
the other hand, covetousness is incurable on the part of a human defect; a thing which human
nature ever seeks to remedy, since the more deficient one is the more one seeks relief from
external things, and consequently the more one gives way to covetousness. Hence incurability
of this kind is an indication not of the sin being more grievous, but of its being somewhat
more dangerous.

Reply Obj. 4: Covetousness is compared to idolatry on account of a certain likeness that it
bears to it: because the covetous man, like the idolater, subjects himself to an external creature,
though not in the same way. For the idolater subjects himself to an external creature by paying
it Divine honor, whereas the covetous man subjects himself to an external creature by desiring
it immoderately for use, not for worship. Hence it does not follow that covetousness is as
grievous a sin as idolatry.

SIXTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 118, Art. 6]

Whether Covetousness Is a Spiritual Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that covetousness is not a spiritual sin. For spiritual sins seem to
regard spiritual goods. But the matter of covetousness is bodily goods, namely, external riches.
Therefore covetousness is not a spiritual sin.

Obj. 2: Further, spiritual sin is condivided with sin of the flesh. Now covetousness is seemingly
a sin of the flesh, for it results from the corruption of the flesh, as instanced in old people
who, through corruption of carnal nature, fall into covetousness. Therefore covetousness is
not a spiritual sin.

Obj. Now covetousness disturbs man even in his body; wherefore Chrysostom (Hom. xxix in Matth.)
compares the covetous man to the man who was possessed by the devil (Mk. 5) and was troubled
in body. Therefore covetousness seems not to be a spiritual sin.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. xxxi) numbers covetousness among spiritual vices.

I answer that, Sins are seated chiefly in the affections: and all the affections or passions
of the soul have their term in pleasure and sorrow, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. ii,
5). Now some pleasures are carnal and some spiritual. Carnal pleasures are those which are
consummated in the carnal senses--for instance, the pleasures of the table and sexual pleasures:
while spiritual pleasures are those which are consummated in the mere apprehension of the soul.
Accordingly, sins of the flesh are those which are consummated in carnal pleasures, while spiritual
sins are consummated in pleasures of the spirit without pleasure of the flesh. Such is covetousness:
for the covetous man takes pleasure in the consideration of himself as a possessor of riches.
Therefore covetousness is a spiritual sin.

Reply Obj. 1: Covetousness with regard to a bodily object seeks the pleasure, not of the body
but only of the soul, forasmuch as a man takes pleasure in the fact that he possesses riches:
wherefore it is not a sin of the flesh. Nevertheless by reason of its object it is a mean between
purely spiritual sins, which seek spiritual pleasure in respect of spiritual objects (thus
pride is about excellence), and purely carnal sins, which seek a purely bodily pleasure in
respect of a bodily object.

Reply Obj. 2: Movement takes its species from the term whereto and not from the term wherefrom.
Hence a vice of the flesh is so called from its tending to a pleasure of the flesh, and not
from its originating in some defect of the flesh.

Reply Obj. 3: Chrysostom compares a covetous man to the man who was possessed by the devil,
not that the former is troubled in the flesh in the same way as the latter, but by way of contrast,
since while the possessed man, of whom we read in Mk. 5, stripped himself, the covetous man
loads himself with an excess of riches.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 118, Art. 7]

Whether Covetousness Is a Capital Vice?

Objection 1: It seems that covetousness is not a capital vice. For covetousness is opposed
to liberality as the mean, and to prodigality as extreme. But neither is liberality a principal
virtue, nor prodigality a capital vice. Therefore covetousness also should not be reckoned
a capital vice.

Obj. 2: Further, as stated above (I-II, Q. 84, AA. 3, 4), those vices are called capital which
have principal ends, to which the ends of other vices are directed. But this does not apply
to covetousness: since riches have the aspect, not of an end, but rather of something directed
to an end, as stated in Ethic. i, 5. Therefore covetousness is not a capital vice.

Obj. 3: Further, Gregory says (Moral. xv), that "covetousness arises sometimes from pride,
sometimes from fear. For there are those who, when they think that they lack the needful for
their expenses, allow the mind to give way to covetousness. And there are others who, wishing
to be thought more of, are incited to greed for other people's property." Therefore covetousness
arises from other vices instead of being a capital vice in respect of other vices.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. xxxi) reckons covetousness among the capital vices.

I answer that, As stated in the Second Objection, a capital vice is one which under the aspect
of end gives rise to other vices: because when an end is very desirable, the result is that
through desire thereof man sets about doing many things either good or evil. Now the most desirable
end is happiness or felicity, which is the last end of human life, as stated above (I-II, Q.
1, AA. 4, 7, 8): wherefore the more a thing is furnished with the conditions of happiness,
the more desirable it is. Also one of the conditions of happiness is that it be self-sufficing,
else it would not set man's appetite at rest, as the last end does. Now riches give great promise
of self-sufficiency, as Boethius says (De Consol. iii): the reason of which, according to the
Philosopher (Ethic. v, 5), is that we "use money in token of taking possession of something,"
and again it is written (Eccles. 10:19): "All things obey money." Therefore covetousness, which
is desire for money, is a capital vice.

Reply Obj. 1: Virtue is perfected in accordance with reason, but vice is perfected in accordance
with the inclination of the sensitive appetite. Now reason and sensitive appetite do not belong
chiefly to the same genus, and consequently it does not follow that principal vice is opposed
to principal virtue. Wherefore, although liberality is not a principal virtue, since it does
not regard the principal good of the reason, yet covetousness is a principal vice, because
it regards money, which occupies a principal place among sensible goods, for the reason given
in the Article.

On the other hand, prodigality is not directed to an end that is desirable principally, indeed
it seems rather to result from a lack of reason. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 1)
that "a prodigal man is a fool rather than a knave."

Reply Obj. 2: It is true that money is directed to something else as its end: yet in so far
as it is useful for obtaining all sensible things, it contains, in a way, all things virtually.
Hence it has a certain likeness to happiness, as stated in the Article.

Reply Obj. 3: Nothing prevents a capital vice from arising sometimes out of other vices, as
stated above (Q. 36, A. 4, ad 1; I-II, Q. 84, A. 4), provided that itself be frequently the
source of others.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 118, Art. 8]

Whether Treachery, Fraud, Falsehood, Perjury, Restlessness, Violence, and Insensibility to
Mercy Are Daughters of Covetousness? For covetousness is opposed to liberality, as stated above
(A. 3). Now treachery, fraud, and falsehood are opposed to prudence, perjury to religion, restlessness
to hope, or to charity which rests in the beloved object, violence to justice, insensibility
to mercy. Therefore these vices have no connection with covetousness.

Obj. 2: Further, treachery, fraud and falsehood seem to pertain to the same thing, namely,
the deceiving of one's neighbor. Therefore they should not be reckoned as different daughters
of covetousness.

Obj. 3: Further, Isidore (Comment. in Deut.) enumerates nine daughters of covetousness; which
are "lying, fraud, theft, perjury, greed of filthy lucre, false witnessing, violence, inhumanity,
rapacity." Therefore the former reckoning of daughters is insufficient.

Obj. 4: Further, the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 1) mentions many kinds of vices as belonging to
covetousness which he calls illiberality, for he speaks of those who are "sparing, tight-fisted,
skinflints [*kyminopristes], misers [*kimbikes], who do illiberal deeds," and of those who
"batten on whoredom, usurers, gamblers, despoilers of the dead, and robbers." Therefore it
seems that the aforesaid enumeration is insufficient.

Obj. 5: Further, tyrants use much violence against their subjects. But the Philosopher says
(Ethic. iv, 1) that "tyrants who destroy cities and despoil sacred places are not to be called
illiberal," i.e. covetous. Therefore violence should not be reckoned a daughter of covetousness.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. xxxi) assigns to covetousness the daughters mentioned above.

I answer that, The daughters of covetousness are the vices which arise therefrom, especially
in respect of the desire of an end. Now since covetousness is excessive love of possessing
riches, it exceeds in two things. For in the first place it exceeds in retaining, and in this
respect covetousness gives rise to insensibility to mercy, because, to wit, a man's heart is
not softened by mercy to assist the needy with his riches [*See Q. 30, A. 1]. In the second
place it belongs to covetousness to exceed in receiving, and in this respect covetousness may
be considered in two ways. First as in the thought (affectu). In this way it gives rise to
restlessness, by hindering man with excessive anxiety and care, for "a covetous man shall not
be satisfied with money" (Eccles. 5:9). Secondly, it may be considered in the execution (effectu).
In this way the covetous man, in acquiring other people's goods, sometimes employs force, which
pertains to violence, sometimes deceit, and then if he has recourse to words, it is falsehood,
if it be mere words, perjury if he confirm his statement by oath; if he has recourse to deeds,
and the deceit affects things, we have fraud; if persons, then we have treachery, as in the
case of Judas, who betrayed Christ through covetousness.

Reply Obj. 1: There is no need for the daughters of a capital sin to belong to that same kind
of vice: because a sin of one kind allows of sins even of a different kind being directed to
its end; seeing that it is one thing for a sin to have daughters, and another for it to have
species.

Reply Obj. 2: These three are distinguished as stated in the Article.

Reply Obj. 3: These nine are reducible to the seven aforesaid. For lying and false witnessing
are comprised under falsehood, since false witnessing is a special kind of lie, just as theft
is a special kind of fraud, wherefore it is comprised under fraud; and greed of filthy lucre
belongs to restlessness; rapacity is comprised under violence, since it is a species thereof;
and inhumanity is the same as insensibility to mercy.

Reply Obj. 4: The vices mentioned by Aristotle are species rather than daughters of illiberality
or covetousness. For a man may be said to be illiberal or covetous through a defect in giving.
If he gives but little he is said to be "sparing"; if nothing, he is "tightfisted": if he gives
with great reluctance, he is said to be kyminopristes ("skinflint"), a cumin-seller, as it
were, because he makes a great fuss about things of little value. Sometimes a man is said to
be illiberal or covetous, through an excess in receiving, and this in two ways. In one way,
through making money by disgraceful means, whether in performing shameful and servile works
by means of illiberal practices, or by acquiring more through sinful deeds, such as whoredom
or the like, or by making a profit where one ought to have given gratis, as in the case of
usury, or by laboring much to make little profit. In another way, in making money by unjust
means, whether by using violence on the living, as robbers do, or by despoiling the dead, or
by preying on one's friends, as gamblers do.

Reply Obj. 5: Just as liberality is about moderate sums of money, so is illiberality. Wherefore
tyrants who take great things by violence, are said to be, not illiberal, but unjust.

QUESTION 119

OF PRODIGALITY (In Three Articles)

We must now consider prodigality, under which head there are three points of inquiry:

(1) Whether prodigality is opposite to covetousness?

(2) Whether prodigality is a sin?

(3) Whether it is a graver sin that covetousness?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 119, Art. 1]

Whether Prodigality Is Opposite to Covetousness?

Objection 1: It seems that prodigality is not opposite to covetousness. For opposites cannot
be together in the same subject. But some are at the same time prodigal and covetous. Therefore
prodigality is not opposite to covetousness.

Obj. 2: Further, opposites relate to one same thing. But covetousness, as opposed to liberality,
relates to certain passions whereby man is affected towards money: whereas prodigality does
not seem to relate to any passions of the soul, since it is not affected towards money, or
to anything else of the kind. Therefore prodigality is not opposite to covetousness.

Obj. 3: Further, sin takes its species chiefly from its end, as stated above (I-II, Q. 62,
A. 3). Now prodigality seems always to be directed to some unlawful end, for the sake of which
the prodigal squanders his goods. Especially is it directed to pleasures, wherefore it is stated
(Luke 15:13) of the prodigal son that he "wasted his substance living riotously." Therefore
it seems that prodigality is opposed to temperance and insensibility rather than to covetousness
and liberality.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 7; iv, 1) that prodigality is opposed to
liberality, and illiberality, to which we give here the name of covetousness.

I answer that, In morals vices are opposed to one another and to virtue in respect of excess
and deficiency. Now covetousness and prodigality differ variously in respect of excess and
deficiency. Thus, as regards affection for riches, the covetous man exceeds by loving them
more than he ought, while the prodigal is deficient, by being less careful of them than he
ought: and as regards external action, prodigality implies excess in giving, but deficiency
in retaining and acquiring, while covetousness, on the contrary, denotes deficiency in giving,
but excess in acquiring and retaining. Hence it is evident that prodigality is opposed to covetousness.

Reply Obj. 1: Nothing prevents opposites from being in the same subject in different respects.
For a thing is denominated more from what is in it principally. Now just as in liberality,
which observes the mean, the principal thing is giving, to which receiving and retaining are
subordinate, so, too, covetousness and prodigality regard principally giving. Wherefore he
who exceeds in giving is said to be "prodigal," while he who is deficient in giving is said
to be "covetous." Now it happens sometimes that a man is deficient in giving, without exceeding
in receiving, as the Philosopher observes (Ethic. iv, 1). And in like manner it happens sometimes
that a man exceeds in giving, and therefore is prodigal, and yet at the same time exceeds in
receiving. This may be due either to some kind of necessity, since while exceeding in giving
he is lacking in goods of his own, so that he is driven to acquire unduly, and this pertains
to covetousness; or it may be due to inordinateness of the mind, for he gives not for a good
purpose, but, as though despising virtue, cares not whence or how he receives. Wherefore he
is prodigal and covetous in different respects.

Reply Obj. 2: Prodigality regards passions in respect of money, not as exceeding, but as deficient
in them.

Reply Obj. 3: The prodigal does not always exceed in giving for the sake of pleasures which
are the matter of temperance, but sometimes through being so disposed as not to care about
riches, and sometimes on account of something else. More frequently, however, he inclines to
intemperance, both because through spending too much on other things he becomes fearless of
spending on objects of pleasure, to which the concupiscence of the flesh is more prone; and
because through taking no pleasure in virtuous goods, he seeks for himself pleasures of the
body. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 1) "that many a prodigal ends in becoming intemperate."

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 119, Art. 2]

Whether Prodigality Is a Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that prodigality is not a sin. For the Apostle says (1 Tim. 6:10): "Covetousness
[Douay: 'desire of money'] is the root of all evils." But it is not the root of prodigality,
since this is opposed to it. Therefore prodigality is not a sin.

Obj. Now this is especially what prodigal persons do. Therefore prodigality is not a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, it belongs to prodigality to exceed in giving and to be deficient in solicitude
about riches. But this is most becoming to the perfect, who fulfil the words of Our Lord (Matt.
6:34), "Be not . . . solicitous for tomorrow," and (Matt. 19:21), "Sell all [Vulg.: 'what']
thou hast, and give to the poor." Therefore prodigality is not a sin.

On the contrary, The prodigal son is held to blame for his prodigality.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the opposition between prodigality and covetousness
is one of excess and deficiency; either of which destroys the mean of virtue. Now a thing is
vicious and sinful through corrupting the good of virtue. Hence it follows that prodigality
is a sin.

Reply Obj. 1: Some expound this saying of the Apostle as referring, not to actual covetousness,
but to a kind of habitual covetousness, which is the concupiscence of the fomes [*Cf. I-II,
Q. 81, A. 3, ad 2], whence all sins arise. Others say that he is speaking of a general covetousness
with regard to any kind of good: and in this sense also it is evident that prodigality arises
from covetousness; since the prodigal seeks to acquire some temporal good inordinately, namely,
to give pleasure to others, or at least to satisfy his own will in giving. But to one that
reviews the passage correctly, it is evident that the Apostle is speaking literally of the
desire of riches, for he had said previously (1 Tim. 6:9): "They that will become rich," etc.
In this sense covetousness is said to be "the root of all evils," not that all evils always
arise from covetousness, but because there is no evil that does not at some time arise from
covetousness. Wherefore prodigality sometimes is born of covetousness, as when a man is prodigal
in going to great expense in order to curry favor with certain persons from whom he may receive
riches.

Reply Obj. 2: The Apostle bids the rich to be ready to give and communicate their riches, according
as they ought. The prodigal does not do this: since, as the Philosopher remarks (Ethic. iv,
1), "his giving is neither good, nor for a good end, nor according as it ought to be. For sometimes
they give much to those who ought to be poor, namely, to buffoons and flatterers, whereas to
the good they give nothing."

Reply Obj. 3: The excess in prodigality consists chiefly, not in the total amount given, but
in the amount over and above what ought to be given. Hence sometimes the liberal man gives
more than the prodigal man, if it be necessary. Accordingly we must reply that those who give
all their possessions with the intention of following Christ, and banish from their minds all
solicitude for temporal things, are not prodigal but perfectly liberal.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 119, Art. 3]

Whether Prodigality Is a More Grievous Sin Than Covetousness?

Objection 1: It seems that prodigality is a more grievous sin than covetousness. For by covetousness
a man injures his neighbor by not communicating his goods to him, whereas by prodigality a
man injures himself, because the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 1) that "the wasting of riches,
which are the means whereby a man lives, is an undoing of his very being." Now he that injures
himself sins more grievously, according to Ecclus. 14:5, "He that is evil to himself, to whom
will he be good?" Therefore prodigality is a more grievous sin than covetousness.

Obj. 2: Further, a disorder that is accompanied by a laudable circumstance is less sinful.
Now the disorder of covetousness is sometimes accompanied by a laudable circumstance, as in
the case of those who are unwilling to spend their own, lest they be driven to accept from
others: whereas the disorder of prodigality is accompanied by a circumstance that calls for
blame, inasmuch as we ascribe prodigality to those who are intemperate, as the Philosopher
observes (Ethic. iv, 1). Therefore prodigality is a more grievous sin than covetousness.

Obj. 3: Further, prudence is chief among the moral virtues, as stated above (Q. 56, A. 1, ad
1; I-II, Q. 61, A. 2, ad 1). Now prodigality is more opposed to prudence than covetousness
is: for it is written (Prov. 21:20): "There is a treasure to be desired, and oil in the dwelling
of the just; and the foolish man shall spend it": and the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 6) that
"it is the mark of a fool to give too much and receive nothing." Therefore prodigality is a
more grievous sin than covetousness.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 6) that "the prodigal seems to be much better
than the illiberal man."

I answer that, Prodigality considered in itself is a less grievous sin than covetousness, and
this for three reasons. First, because covetousness differs more from the opposite virtue:
since giving, wherein the prodigal exceeds, belongs to liberality more than receiving or retaining,
wherein the covetous man exceeds. Secondly, because the prodigal man is of use to the many
to whom he gives, while the covetous man is of use to no one, not even to himself, as stated
in Ethic. iv, 6. Thirdly, because prodigality is easily cured. For not only is the prodigal
on the way to old age, which is opposed to prodigality, but he is easily reduced to a state
of want, since much useless spending impoverishes him and makes him unable to exceed in giving.
Moreover, prodigality is easily turned into virtue on account of its likeness thereto. On the
other hand, the covetous man is not easily cured, for the reason given above (Q. 118, A. 5, ad 3).

Reply Obj. 1: The difference between the prodigal and the covetous man is not that the former
sins against himself and the latter against another. For the prodigal sins against himself
by spending that which is his, and his means of support, and against others by spending the
wherewithal to help others. This applies chiefly to the clergy, who are the dispensers of the
Church's goods, that belong to the poor whom they defraud by their prodigal expenditure. In
like manner the covetous man sins against others, by being deficient in giving; and he sins
against himself, through deficiency in spending: wherefore it is written (Eccles. 6:2): "A
man to whom God hath given riches . . . yet doth not give him the power to eat thereof." Nevertheless
the prodigal man exceeds in this, that he injures both himself and others yet so as to profit
some; whereas the covetous man profits neither others nor himself, since he does not even use
his own goods for his own profit.

Reply Obj. 2: In speaking of vices in general, we judge of them according to their respective
natures: thus, with regard to prodigality we note that it consumes riches to excess, and with
regard to covetousness that it retains them to excess. That one spend too much for the sake
of intemperance points already to several additional sins, wherefore the prodigal of this kind
is worse, as stated in Ethic. iv, 1. That an illiberal or covetous man refrain from taking
what belongs to others, although this appears in itself to call for praise, yet on account
of the motive for which he does so it calls for blame, since he is unwilling to accept from
others lest he be forced to give to others.

Reply Obj. 3: All vices are opposed to prudence, even as all virtues are directed by prudence:
wherefore if a vice be opposed to prudence alone, for this very reason it is deemed less grievous.

QUESTION 120

OF "EPIKEIA" OR EQUITY (In Two Articles)

We must now consider "epikeia," under which head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether "epikeia" is a virtue?

(2) Whether it is a part of justice?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 120, Art. 1]

Whether "Epikeia" [*Epieikeia] Is a Virtue?

Objection 1: It seems that epikeia is not a virtue. For no virtue does away with another virtue.
Yet epikeia does away with another virtue, since it sets aside that which is just according
to law, and seemingly is opposed to severity. Therefore epikeia is not a virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Vera Relig. xxxi): "With regard to these earthly laws,
although men pass judgment on them when they make them, yet, when once they are made and established,
the judge must pronounce judgment not on them but according to them." But seemingly epikeia
pronounces judgment on the law, when it deems that the law should not be observed in some particular
case. Therefore epikeia is a vice rather than a virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, apparently it belongs to epikeia to consider the intention of the lawgiver,
as the Philosopher states (Ethic. v, 10). But it belongs to the sovereign alone to interpret
the intention of the lawgiver, wherefore the Emperor says in the Codex of Laws and Constitutions,
under Law i: "It is fitting and lawful that We alone should interpret between equity and law."
Therefore the act of epikeia is unlawful: and consequently epikeia is not a virtue.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. v, 10) states it to be a virtue.

I answer that, As stated above (I-II, Q. 96, A. 6), when we were treating of laws, since human
actions, with which laws are concerned, are composed of contingent singulars and are innumerable
in their diversity, it was not possible to lay down rules of law that would apply to every
single case. Legislators in framing laws attend to what commonly happens: although if the law
be applied to certain cases it will frustrate the equality of justice and be injurious to the
common good, which the law has in view. Thus the law requires deposits to be restored, because
in the majority of cases this is just. Yet it happens sometimes to be injurious--for instance,
if a madman were to put his sword in deposit, and demand its delivery while in a state of madness,
or if a man were to seek the return of his deposit in order to fight against his country. In
these and like cases it is bad to follow the law, and it is good to set aside the letter of
the law and to follow the dictates of justice and the common good. This is the object of epikeia
which we call equity. Therefore it is evident that epikeia is a virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: Epikeia does not set aside that which is just in itself but that which is just
as by law established. Nor is it opposed to severity, which follows the letter of the law when
it ought to be followed. To follow the letter of the law when it ought not to be followed is
sinful. Hence it is written in the Codex of Laws and Constitutions under Law v: "Without doubt
he transgresses the law who by adhering to the letter of the law strives to defeat the intention
of the lawgiver."

Reply Obj. 2: It would be passing judgment on a law to say that it was not well made; but to
say that the letter of the law is not to be observed in some particular case is passing judgment
not on the law, but on some particular contingency.

Reply Obj. 3: Interpretation is admissible in doubtful cases where it is not allowed to set
aside the letter of the law without the interpretation of the sovereign. But when the case
is manifest there is need, not of interpretation, but of execution.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 120, Art. 2]

Whether Epikeia Is a Part of Justice?

Objection 1: It seems that epikeia is not a part of justice. For, as stated above (Q. 58, A.
7), justice is twofold, particular and legal. Now epikeia is not a part of particular justice,
since it extends to all virtues, even as legal justice does. In like manner, neither is it
a part of legal justice, since its operation is beside that which is established by law. Therefore
it seems that epikeia is not a part of justice.

Obj. 2: Further, a more principal virtue is not assigned as the part of a less principal virtue:
for it is to the cardinal virtue, as being principal, that secondary virtues are assigned as
parts. Now epikeia seems to be a more principal virtue than justice, as implied by its name:
for it is derived from epi, i.e. "above," and dikaion, i.e. "just." Therefore epikeia is not
a part of justice.

Obj. 3: Further, it seems that epikeia is the same as modesty. For where the Apostle says (Phil.
4:5), "Let your modesty be known to all men," the Greek has epieikeia [*to epieikes]. Now,
according to Tully (De Invent. Rhet. ii), modesty is a part of temperance. Therefore epikeia
is not a part of justice.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 10) that "epikeia is a kind of justice."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 48), a virtue has three kinds of parts, subjective, integral,
and potential. A subjective part is one of which the whole is predicated essentially, and it
is less than the whole. This may happen in two ways. For sometimes one thing is predicated
of many in one common ratio, as animal of horse and ox: and sometimes one thing is predicated
of many according to priority and posteriority, as being of substance and accident.

Accordingly, epikeia is a part of justice taken in a general sense, for it is a kind of justice,
as the Philosopher states (Ethic. v, 10). Wherefore it is evident that epikeia is a subjective
part of justice; and justice is predicated of it with priority to being predicated of legal
justice, since legal justice is subject to the direction of epikeia. Hence epikeia is by way
of being a higher rule of human actions.

Reply Obj. 1: Epikeia corresponds properly to legal justice, and in one way is contained under
it, and in another way exceeds it. For if legal justice denotes that which complies with the
law, whether as regards the letter of the law, or as regards the intention of the lawgiver,
which is of more account, then epikeia is the more important part of legal justice. But if
legal justice denote merely that which complies with the law with regard to the letter, then
epikeia is a part not of legal justice but of justice in its general acceptation, and is condivided
with legal justice, as exceeding it.

Reply Obj. 2: As the Philosopher states (Ethic. v, 10), "epikeia is better than a certain,"
namely, legal, "justice," which observes the letter of the law: yet since it is itself a kind
of justice, it is not better than all justice.

Reply Obj. 3: It belongs to epikeia to moderate something, namely, the observance of the letter
of the law. But modesty, which is reckoned a part of temperance, moderates man's outward life--for
instance, in his deportment, dress or the like. Possibly also the term epieikeia is applied
in Greek by a similitude to all kinds of moderation.

QUESTION 121

OF PIETY (In Two Articles)

We must now consider the gift that corresponds to justice; namely, piety. Under this head there
are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether it is a gift of the Holy Ghost?

(2) Which of the beatitudes and fruits corresponds to it?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 121, Art. 1]

Whether Piety Is a Gift?

Objection 1: It seems that piety is not a gift. For the gifts differ from the virtues, as stated
above (I-II, Q. 68, A. 1). But piety is a virtue, as stated above (Q. 101, A. 3). Therefore
piety is not a gift.

Obj. 2: Further, the gifts are more excellent than the virtues, above all the moral virtues,
as above (I-II, Q. 68, A. 8). Now among the parts of justice religion is greater than piety.
Therefore if any part of justice is to be accounted a gift, it seems that religion should be
a gift rather than piety.

Obj. 3: Further, the gifts and their acts remain in heaven, as stated above (I-II, Q. 68, A.
6). But the act of piety cannot remain in heaven: for Gregory says (Moral. i) that "piety fills
the inmost recesses of the heart with works of mercy": and so there will be no piety in heaven
since there will be no unhappiness [*Cf. Q. 30, A. 1]. Therefore piety is not a gift.

On the contrary, It is reckoned among the gifts in the eleventh chapter of Isaias (verse 2)
[Douay: "godliness"] [*Pietas, whence our English word "pity," which is the same as mercy.]

I answer that, As stated above (I-II, Q. 68, A. 1; Q. 69, AA. 1, 3), the gifts of the Holy
Ghost are habitual dispositions of the soul, rendering it amenable to the motion of the Holy
Ghost. And since it belongs properly to piety to pay duty and worship to one's father, it follows
that piety, whereby, at the Holy Ghost's instigation, we pay worship and duty to God as our
Father, is a gift of the Holy Ghost.

Reply Obj. 1: The piety that pays duty and worship to a father in the flesh is a virtue: but
the piety that is a gift pays this to God as Father.

Reply Obj. 2: To pay worship to God as Creator, as religion does, is more excellent than to
pay worship to one's father in the flesh, as the piety that is a virtue does. But to pay worship
to God as Father is yet more excellent than to pay worship to God as Creator and Lord. Wherefore
religion is greater than the virtue of piety: while the gift of piety is greater than religion.

Reply Obj. 3: As by the virtue of piety man pays duty and worship not only to his father in
the flesh, but also to all his kindred on account of their being related to his father, so
by the gift of piety he pays worship and duty not only to God, but also to all men on account
of their relationship to God. Hence it belongs to piety to honor the saints, and not to contradict
the Scriptures whether one understands them or not, as Augustine says (De Doctr. Christ. ii).
Consequently it also assists those who are in a state of unhappiness. And although this act
has no place in heaven, especially after the Day of Judgment, yet piety will exercise its principal
act, which is to revere God with filial affection: for it is then above all that this act will
be fulfilled, according to Wis. 5:5, "Behold how they are numbered among the children of God."
The saints will also mutually honor one another. Now, however, before the Judgment Day, the
saints have pity on those also who are living in this unhappy state.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 121, Art. 2]

Whether the Second Beatitude, "Blessed Are the Meek," Corresponds to the Gift of Piety?

Objection 1: It seems that the second beatitude, "Blessed are the meek," does not correspond
to the gift of piety. For piety is the gift corresponding to justice, to which rather belongs
the fourth beatitude, "Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after justice," or the fifth
beatitude, "Blessed are the merciful," since as stated above (A. 1, Obj. 3), the works of mercy
belong to piety. Therefore the second beatitude does not pertain to the gift of piety.

Obj. 2: Further, the gift of piety is directed by the gift of knowledge, which is united to
it in the enumeration of the gifts (Isa. 11). Now direction and execution extend to the same
matter. Since, then, the third beatitude, "Blessed are they that mourn," corresponds to the
gift of knowledge, it seems that the second beatitude corresponds to piety.

Obj. 3: Further, the fruits correspond to the beatitudes and gifts, as stated above (I-II,
Q. 70, A. 2). Now among the fruits, goodness and benignity seem to agree with piety rather
than mildness, which pertains to meekness. Therefore the second beatitude does not correspond
to the gift of piety.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Serm. Dom. in Monte i): "Piety is becoming to the meek."

I answer that, In adapting the beatitudes to the gifts a twofold congruity may be observed.
One is according to the order in which they are given, and Augustine seems to have followed
this: wherefore he assigns the first beatitude to the lowest gift, namely, fear, and the second
beatitude, "Blessed are the meek," to piety, and so on. Another congruity may be observed in
keeping with the special nature of each gift and beatitude. In this way one must adapt the
beatitudes to the gifts according to their objects and acts: and thus the fourth and fifth
beatitudes would correspond to piety, rather than the second. Yet the second beatitude has
a certain congruity with piety, inasmuch as meekness removes the obstacles to acts of piety.

This suffices for the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: Taking the beatitudes and gifts according to their proper natures, the same beatitude
must needs correspond to knowledge and piety: but taking them according to their order, different
beatitudes correspond to them, although a certain congruity may be observed, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: In the fruits goodness and benignity may be directly ascribed to piety; and mildness
indirectly in so far as it removes obstacles to acts of piety, as stated above.

QUESTION 122

OF THE PRECEPTS OF JUSTICE (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the precepts of justice, under which head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the precepts of the decalogue are precepts of justice?

(2) Of the first precept of the decalogue;

(3) Of the second;

(4) Of the third;

(5) Of the fourth;

(6) Of the other six.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 122, Art. 1]

Whether the Precepts of the Decalogue Are Precepts of Justice?

Objection 1: It seems that the precepts of the decalogue are not precepts of justice. For the
intention of a lawgiver is "to make the citizens virtuous in respect of every virtue," as stated
in Ethic. ii, 1. Wherefore, according to Ethic. v, 1, "the law prescribes about all acts of
all virtues." Now the precepts of the decalogue are the first principles of the whole Divine
Law. Therefore the precepts of the decalogue do not pertain to justice alone.

Obj. 2: Further, it would seem that to justice belong especially the judicial precepts, which
are condivided with the moral precepts, as stated above (I-II, Q. 99, A. 4). But the precepts
of the decalogue are moral precepts, as stated above (I-II, Q. 100, A. 3). Therefore the precepts
of the decalogue are not precepts of justice.

Obj. 3: Further, the Law contains chiefly precepts about acts of justice regarding the common
good, for instance about public officers and the like. But there is no mention of these in
the precepts of the decalogue. Therefore it seems that the precepts of the decalogue do not
properly belong to justice.

Obj. 4: Further, the precepts of the decalogue are divided into two tables, corresponding to
the love of God and the love of our neighbor, both of which regard the virtue of charity. Therefore
the precepts of the decalogue belong to charity rather than to justice.

On the contrary, Seemingly justice is the sole virtue whereby we are directed to another. Now
we are directed to another by all the precepts of the decalogue, as is evident if one consider
each of them. Therefore all the precepts of the decalogue pertain to justice.

I answer that, The precepts of the decalogue are the first principles of the Law: and the natural
reason assents to them at once, as to principles that are most evident. Now it is altogether
evident that the notion of duty, which is essential to a precept, appears in justice, which
is of one towards another. Because in those matters that relate to himself it would seem at
a glance that man is master of himself, and that he may do as he likes: whereas in matters
that refer to another it appears manifestly that a man is under obligation to render to another
that which is his due. Hence the precepts of the decalogue must needs pertain to justice. Wherefore
the first three precepts are about acts of religion, which is the chief part of justice; the
fourth precept is about acts of piety, which is the second part of justice; and the six remaining
are about justice commonly so called, which is observed among equals.

Reply Obj. 1: The intention of the law is to make all men virtuous, but in a certain order,
namely, by first of all giving them precepts about those things where the notion of duty is
most manifest, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: The judicial precepts are determinations of the moral precepts, in so far as
these are directed to one's neighbor, just as the ceremonial precepts are determinations of
the moral precepts in so far as these are directed to God. Hence neither precepts are contained
in the decalogue: and yet they are determinations of the precepts of the decalogue, and therefore
pertain to justice.

Reply Obj. 3: Things that concern the common good must needs be administered in different ways
according to the difference of men. Hence they were to be given a place not among the precepts
of the decalogue, but among the judicial precepts.

Reply Obj.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 122, Art. 2]

Whether the First Precept of the Decalogue Is Fittingly Expressed?

Objection 1: It seems that the first precept of the decalogue is unfittingly expressed. For
man is more bound to God than to his father in the flesh, according to Heb. 12:9, "How much
more shall we [Vulg.: 'shall we not much more'] obey the Father of spirits and live?" Now the
precept of piety, whereby man honors his father, is expressed affirmatively in these words:
"Honor thy father and thy mother." Much more, therefore, should the first precept of religion,
whereby all honor God, be expressed affirmatively, especially as affirmation is naturally prior
to negation.

Obj. 2: Further, the first precept of the decalogue pertains to religion, as stated above (A.
1). Now religion, since it is one virtue, has one act. Yet in the first precept three acts
are forbidden: since we read first: "Thou shalt not have strange gods before Me"; secondly,
"Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven thing"; and thirdly, "Thou shalt not adore them
nor serve them." Therefore the first precept is unfittingly expressed.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De decem chord. ix) that "the first precept forbids the sin
of superstition." But there are many wicked superstitions besides idolatry, as stated above
(Q. 92, A. 2). Therefore it was insufficient to forbid idolatry alone.

On the contrary, stands the authority of Scripture.

I answer that, It pertains to law to make men good, wherefore it behooved the precepts of the
Law to be set in order according to the order of generation, the order, to wit, of man's becoming
good. Now two things must be observed in the order of generation. The first is that the first
part is the first thing to be established; thus in the generation of an animal the first thing
to be formed is the heart, and in building a home the first thing to be set up is the foundation:
and in the goodness of the soul the first part is goodness of the will, the result of which
is that a man makes good use of every other goodness. Now the goodness of the will depends
on its object, which is its end. Wherefore since man was to be directed to virtue by means
of the Law, the first thing necessary was, as it were, to lay the foundation of religion, whereby
man is duly directed to God, Who is the last end of man's will.

The second thing to be observed in the order of generation is that in the first place contraries
and obstacles have to be removed. Thus the farmer first purifies the soil, and afterwards sows
his seed, according to Jer. 4:3, "Break up anew your fallow ground, and sow not upon thorns."
Hence it behooved man, first of all to be instructed in religion, so as to remove the obstacles
to true religion. Now the chief obstacle to religion is for man to adhere to a false god, according
to Matt. 6:24, "You cannot serve God and mammon." Therefore in the first precept of the Law
the worship of false gods is excluded.

Reply Obj. 1: In point of fact there is one affirmative precept about religion, namely: "Remember
that thou keep holy the Sabbath Day." Still the negative precepts had to be given first, so
that by their means the obstacles to religion might be removed. For though affirmation naturally
precedes negation, yet in the process of generation, negation, whereby obstacles are removed,
comes first, as stated in the Article. Especially is this true in matters concerning God, where
negation is preferable to affirmation, on account of our insufficiency, as Dionysius observes
(Coel. Hier. ii).

Reply Obj. 2: People worshiped strange gods in two ways. For some served certain creatures
as gods without having recourse to images. Hence Varro says that for a long time the ancient
Romans worshiped gods without using images: and this worship is first forbidden by the words,
"Thou shalt not have strange gods." Among others the worship of false gods was observed by
using certain images: and so the very making of images was fittingly forbidden by the words,
"Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven thing," as also the worship of those same images,
by the words, "Thou shalt not adore them," etc.

Reply Obj. 3: All other kinds of superstition proceed from some compact, tacit or explicit,
with the demons; hence all are understood to be forbidden by the words, "Thou shalt not have
strange gods."

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 122, Art. For this precept, "Thou shalt not take the name of thy God
in vain" is thus explained by a gloss on Ex. 20:7: "Thou shalt not deem the Son of God to be
a creature," so that it forbids an error against faith. Again, a gloss on the words of Deut.
5:11, "Thou shalt not take the name of . . . thy God in vain," adds, i.e. "by giving the name
of God to wood or stone," as though they forbade a false confession of faith, which, like error,
is an act of unbelief. Now unbelief precedes superstition, as faith precedes religion. Therefore
this precept should have preceded the first, whereby superstition is forbidden.

Obj. 2: Further, the name of God is taken for many purposes--for instance, those of praise,
of working miracles, and generally speaking in conjunction with all we say or do, according
to Col. 3:17, "All whatsoever you do in word or in work . . . do ye in the name of the Lord."
Therefore the precept forbidding the taking of God's name in vain seems to be more universal
than the precept forbidding superstition, and thus should have preceded it.

Obj. 3: Further, a gloss on Ex. 20:7 expounds the precept, "Thou shalt not take the name of
. . . thy God in vain," namely, by swearing to nothing. Hence this precept would seem to forbid
useless swearing, that is to say, swearing without judgment. But false swearing, which is without
truth, and unjust swearing, which is without justice, are much more grievous. Therefore this
precept should rather have forbidden them.

Obj. 4: Further, blasphemy or any word or deed that is an insult to God is much more grievous
than perjury. Therefore blasphemy and other like sins should rather have been forbidden by
this precept.

Obj. 5: Further, God's names are many. Therefore it should not have been said indefinitely:
"Thou shalt not take the name of . . . thy God in vain."

On the contrary, stands the authority of Scripture.

I answer that, In one who is being instructed in virtue it is necessary to remove obstacles
to true religion before establishing him in true religion. Now a thing is opposed to true religion
in two ways. First, by excess, when, to wit, that which belongs to religion is given to others
than to whom it is due, and this pertains to superstition. Secondly, by lack, as it were, of
reverence, when, to wit, God is contemned, and this pertains to the vice of irreligion, as
stated above (Q. 97, in the preamble, and in the Article that follows). Now superstition hinders
religion by preventing man from acknowledging God so as to worship Him: and when a man's mind
is engrossed in some undue worship, he cannot at the same time give due worship to God, according
to Isa. 28:20, "The bed is straitened, so that one must fall out," i.e. either the true God
or a false god must fall out from man's heart, "and a short covering cannot cover both." On
the other hand, irreligion hinders religion by preventing man from honoring God after he has
acknowledged Him. Now one must first of all acknowledge God with a view to worship, before
honoring Him we have acknowledged.

For this reason the precept forbidding superstition is placed before the second precept, which
forbids perjury that pertains to irreligion.

Reply Obj. 1: These expositions are mystical.

Reply Obj. 2: This precept does not forbid all taking of the name of God, but properly the
taking of God's name in confirmation of a man's word by way of an oath, because men are wont
to take God's name more frequently in this way. Nevertheless we may understand that in consequence
all inordinate taking of the Divine name is forbidden by this precept: and it is in this sense
that we are to take the explanation quoted in the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 3: To swear to nothing means to swear to that which is not. This pertains to false
swearing, which is chiefly called perjury, as stated above (Q. 98, A. 1, ad 3). For when a
man swears to that which is false, his swearing is vain in itself, since it is not supported
by the truth. On the other hand, when a man swears without judgment, through levity, if he
swear to the truth, there is no vanity on the part of the oath itself, but only on the part
of the swearer.

Reply Obj. 4: Just as when we instruct a man in some science, we begin by putting before him
certain general maxims, even so the Law, which forms man to virtue by instructing him in the
precepts of the decalogue, which are the first of all precepts, gave expression, by prohibition
or by command, to those things which are of most common occurrence in the course of human life.
Hence the precepts of the decalogue include the prohibition of perjury, which is of more frequent
occurrence than blasphemy, since man does not fall so often into the latter sin.

Reply Obj. 5: Reverence is due to the Divine names on the part of the thing signified, which
is one, and not on the part of the signifying words, which are many. Hence it is expressed
in the singular: "Thou shalt not take the name of . . . thy God in vain": since it matters
not in which of God's names perjury is committed.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 122, Art. 4]

Whether the Third Precept of the Decalogue, Concerning the Hallowing of the Sabbath, Is Fittingly
Expressed?

Objection 1: It seems that the third precept of the decalogue, concerning the hallowing of
the Sabbath, is unfittingly expressed. For this, understood spiritually, is a general precept:
since Bede in commenting on Luke 13:14, "The ruler of the synagogue being angry that He had
healed on the Sabbath," says (Comment. iv): "The Law forbids, not to heal man on the Sabbath,
but to do servile works," i.e. "to burden oneself with sin." Taken literally it is a ceremonial
precept, for it is written (Ex. 31:13): "See that you keep My Sabbath: because it is a sign
between Me and you in your generations." Now the precepts of the decalogue are both spiritual
and moral. Therefore it is unfittingly placed among the precepts of the decalogue.

Obj. 2: Further, the ceremonial precepts of the Law contain "sacred things, sacrifices, sacraments
and observances," as stated above (I-II, Q. 101, A. 4). Now sacred things comprised not only
sacred days, but also sacred places and sacred vessels, and so on. Moreover, there were many
sacred days other than the Sabbath. Therefore it was unfitting to omit all other ceremonial
observances and to mention only that of the Sabbath.

Obj. 3: Further, whoever breaks a precept of the decalogue, sins. But in the Old Law some who
broke the observances of the Sabbath did not sin--for instance, those who circumcised their
sons on the eighth day, and the priests who worked in the temple on the Sabbath. Also Elias
(3 Kings 19), who journeyed for forty days unto the mount of God, Horeb, must have traveled
on a Sabbath: the priests also who carried the ark of the Lord for seven days, as related in
Josue 7, must be understood to have carried it on a Sabbath. Again it is written (Luke 13:15):
"Doth not every one of you on the Sabbath day loose his ox or his ass . . . and lead them to
water?" Therefore it is unfittingly placed among the precepts of the decalogue.

Obj. 4: Further, the precepts of the decalogue have to be observed also under the New Law.
Yet in the New Law this precept is not observed, neither in the point of the Sabbath day, nor
as to the Lord's day, on which men cook their food, travel, fish, and do many like things.
Therefore the precept of the observance of the Sabbath is unfittingly expressed.

On the contrary, stands the authority of Scripture.

I answer that, The obstacles to true religion being removed by the first and second precepts
of the decalogue, as stated above (AA. 2, 3), it remained for the third precept to be given
whereby man is established in true religion. Now it belongs to religion to give worship to
God: and just as the Divine scriptures teach the interior worship under the guise of certain
corporal similitudes, so is external worship given to God under the guise of sensible signs.
And since for the most part man is induced to pay interior worship, consisting in prayer and
devotion, by the interior prompting of the Holy Ghost, a precept of the Law as necessary respecting
the exterior worship that consists in sensible signs. Now the precepts of the decalogue are,
so to speak, first and common principles of the Law, and consequently the third precept of
the decalogue describes the exterior worship of God as the sign of a universal boon that concerns
all. This universal boon was the work of the Creation of the world, from which work God is
stated to have rested on the seventh day: and sign of this we are commanded to keep holy seventh
day--that is, to set it aside as a day to be given to God. Hence after the precept about the
hallowing of the Sabbath the reason for it is given: "For in six days the Lord made heaven
and earth . . . and rested on the seventh day."

Reply Obj. 1: The precept about hallowing the Sabbath, understood literally, is partly moral
and partly ceremonial. It is a moral precept in the point of commanding man to aside a certain
time to be given to Divine things. For there is in man a natural inclination to set aside a
certain time for each necessary thing, such as refreshment of the body, sleep, and so forth.
Hence according to the dictate of reason, man sets aside a certain time for spiritual refreshment,
by which man's mind is refreshed in God. And thus to have a certain time set aside for occupying
oneself with Divine things is the matter of a moral precept. But, in so far as this precept
specializes the time as a sign representing the Creation of the world, it is a ceremonial precept.
Again, it is a ceremonial precept in its allegorical signification, as representative of Christ's
rest in the tomb on the seventh day: also in its moral signification, as representing cessation
from all sinful acts, and the mind's rest in God, in which sense, too, it is a general precept.
Again, it is a ceremonial precept in its analogical signification, as foreshadowing the enjoyment
of God in heaven. Hence the precept about hallowing the Sabbath is placed among the precepts
of the decalogue, as a moral, but not as a ceremonial precept.

Reply Obj. 2: The other ceremonies of the Law are signs of certain particular Divine works:
but the observance of the Sabbath is representative of a general boon, namely, the production
of all creatures. Hence it was fitting that it should be placed among the general precepts
of the decalogue, rather than any other ceremonial precept of the Law.

Reply Obj. 3: Two things are to be observed in the hallowing of the Sabbath. One of these is
the end: and this is that man occupy himself with Divine things, and is signified in the words:
"Remember that thou keep holy the Sabbath day." For in the Law those things are said to be
holy which are applied to the Divine worship. The other thing is cessation from work, and is
signified in the words (Ex. 20:11), "On the seventh day . . . thou shalt do no work." The kind
of work meant appears from Lev. 23:3, "You shall do no servile work on that day [*Vulg.: 'You
shall do no work on that day']." Now servile work is so called from servitude: and servitude
is threefold. One, whereby man is the servant of sin, according to John 8:34, "Whosoever committeth
sin is the servant of sin," and in this sense all sinful acts are servile. Another servitude
is whereby one man serves another. Now one man serves another not with his mind but with his
body, as stated above (Q. 104, AA. 5, 6, ad 1). Wherefore in this respect those works are called
servile whereby one man serves another. The third is the servitude of God; and in this way
the work of worship, which pertains to the service of God, may be called a servile work. In
this sense servile work is not forbidden on the Sabbath day, because that would be contrary
to the end of the Sabbath observance: since man abstains from other works on the Sabbath day
in order that he may occupy himself with works connected with God's service. For this reason,
according to John 7:23, "a man [*Vulg.: 'If a man,' etc.] receives circumcision on the Sabbath
day, that the law of Moses may not be broken": and for this reason too we read (Matt. 12:5),
that "on the Sabbath days the priests in the temple break the Sabbath," i.e. do corporal works
on the Sabbath, "and are without blame." Accordingly, the priests in carrying the ark on the
Sabbath did not break the precept of the Sabbath observance. In like manner it is not contrary
to the observance of the Sabbath to exercise any spiritual act, such as teaching by word or
writing. Wherefore a gloss on Num 28 says that "smiths and like craftsmen rest on the Sabbath
day, but the reader or teacher of the Divine law does not cease from his work. Yet he profanes
not the Sabbath, even as the priests in the temple break the Sabbath, and are without blame."
On the other hand, those works that are called servile in the first or second way are contrary
to the observance of the Sabbath, in so far as they hinder man from applying himself to Divine
things. And since man is hindered from applying himself to Divine things rather by sinful than
by lawful albeit corporal works, it follows that to sin on a feast day is more against this
precept than to do some other but lawful bodily work. Hence Augustine says (De decem chord.
iii): "It would be better if the Jew did some useful work on his farm than spent his time seditiously
in the theatre: and their womenfolk would do better to be making linen on the Sabbath than
to be dancing lewdly all day in their feasts of the new moon." It is not, however, against
this precept to sin venially on the Sabbath, because venial sin does not destroy holiness.

Again, corporal works, not pertaining to the spiritual worship of God, are said to be servile
in so far as they belong properly to servants; while they are not said to be servile, in so
far as they are common to those who serve and those who are free. Moreover, everyone, be he
servant or free, is bound to provide necessaries both for himself and for his neighbor, chiefly
in respect of things pertaining to the well-being of the body, according to Prov. 24:11, "Deliver
them that are led to death": secondarily as regards avoiding damage to one's property, according
to Deut. 22:1, "Thou shalt not pass by if thou seest thy brother's ox or his sheep go astray,
but thou shalt bring them back to thy brother." Hence a corporal work pertaining to the preservation
of one's own bodily well-being does not profane the Sabbath: for it is not against the observance
of the Sabbath to eat and do such things as preserve the health of the body. For this reason
the Machabees did not profane the Sabbath when they fought in self-defense on the Sabbath day
(1 Macc. 2), nor Elias when he fled from the face of Jezabel on the Sabbath. For this same
reason our Lord (Matt. 12:3) excused His disciples for plucking the ears of corn on account
of the need which they suffered. And again, a bodily work that is done to avoid an imminent
damage to some external thing does not profane the Sabbath, wherefore our Lord says (Matt.
12:11): "What man shall there be among you, that hath one sheep, and if the same fall into
a pit on the Sabbath day, will he not take hold on it and lift it up?"

Reply Obj. 4: In the New Law the observance of the Lord's day took the place of the observance
of the Sabbath, not by virtue of the precept but by the institution of the Church and the custom
of Christian people. For this observance is not figurative, as was the observance of the Sabbath
in the Old Law. Hence the prohibition to work on the Lord's day is not so strict as on the
Sabbath: and certain works are permitted on the Lord's day which were forbidden on the Sabbath,
such as the cooking of food and so forth. And again in the New Law, dispensation is more easily
granted than in the Old, in the matter of certain forbidden works, on account of their necessity,
because the figure pertains to the protestation of truth, which it is unlawful to omit even
in small things; while works, considered in themselves, are changeable in point of place and time.

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 122, Art. 5]

Whether the Fourth Precept, About Honoring One's Parents, Is Fittingly Expressed?

Objection 1: It seems that the fourth precept, about honoring one's parents, is unfittingly
expressed. For this is the precept pertaining to piety. Now, just as piety is a part of justice,
so are observance, gratitude, and others of which we have spoken (QQ. 101, 102, seq.). Therefore
it seems that there should not have been given a special precept of piety, as none is given
regarding the others.

Obj. 2: Further, piety pays worship not only to one's parents, but also to one's country, and
also to other blood kindred, and to the well-wishers of our country, as stated above (Q. 101,
AA. 1, 2). Therefore it was unfitting for this precept to mention only the honoring of one's
father and mother.

Obj. 3: Further, we owe our parents not merely honor but also support. Therefore the mere honoring
of one's parents is unfittingly prescribed.

Obj. 4: Further, sometimes those who honor their parents die young, and on the contrary those
who honor them not live a long time. Therefore it was unfitting to supplement this precept
with the promise, "That thou mayest be long-lived upon earth."

On the contrary, stands the authority of Scripture.

I answer that, The precepts of the decalogue are directed to the love of God and of our neighbor.
Now to our parents, of all our neighbors, we are under the greatest obligation. Hence, immediately
after the precepts directing us to God, a place is given to the precept directing us to our
parents, who are the particular principle of our being, just as God is the universal principle:
so that this precept has a certain affinity to the precepts of the First Table.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above (Q. 101, A. 2), piety directs us to pay the debt due to our parents,
a debt which is common to all. Hence, since the precepts of the decalogue are general precepts,
they ought to contain some reference to piety rather than to the other parts of justice, which
regard some special debt.

Reply Obj. 2: The debt to one's parents precedes the debt to one's kindred and country since
it is because we are born of our parents that our kindred and country belong to us. Hence,
since the precepts of the decalogue are the first precepts of the Law, they direct man to his
parents rather than to his country and other kindred. Nevertheless this precept of honoring
our parents is understood to command whatever concerns the payment of debt to any person, as
secondary matter included in the principal matter.

Reply Obj. 3: Reverential honor is due to one's parents as such, whereas support and so forth
are due to them accidentally, for instance, because they are in want, in slavery, or the like,
as stated above (Q. 101, A. 2). And since that which belongs to a thing by nature precedes
that which is accidental, it follows that among the first precepts of the Law, which are the
precepts of the decalogue, there is a special precept of honoring our parents: and this honor,
as a kind of principle, is understood to comprise support and whatever else is due to our parents.

Reply Obj. 4: A long life is promised to those who honor their parents not only as to the life
to come, but also as to the present life, according to the saying of the Apostle (1 Tim. 4:8):
"Piety [Douay: 'godliness'] is profitable to all things, having promise of the life that now
is and of that which is to come." And with reason. Because the man who is grateful for a favor
deserves, with a certain congruity, that the favor should be continued to him, and he who is
ungrateful for a favor deserves to lose it. Now we owe the favor of bodily life to our parents
after God: wherefore he that honors his parents deserves the prolongation of his life, because
he is grateful for that favor: while he that honors not his parents deserves to be deprived
of life because he is ungrateful for the favor. However, present goods or evils are not the
subject of merit or demerit except in so far as they are directed to a future reward, as stated
above (I-II, Q. 114, A. 12). Wherefore sometimes in accordance with the hidden design of the
Divine judgments, which regard chiefly the future reward, some, who are dutiful to their parents,
are sooner deprived of life, while others, who are undutiful to their parents, live longer.

SIXTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 122, Art. 6]

Whether the Other Six Precepts of the Decalogue Are Fittingly Expressed?

Objection 1: It seems that the other six precepts of the decalogue are unfittingly expressed.
For it is not sufficient for salvation that one refrain from injuring one's neighbor; but it
is required that one pay one's debts, according to Rom. 13:7, "Render . . . to all men their
dues." Now the last six precepts merely forbid one to injure one's neighbor. Therefore these
precepts are unfittingly expressed.

Obj. 2: Further, these precepts forbid murder, adultery, stealing and bearing false witness.
But many other injuries can be inflicted on one's neighbor, as appears from those which have
been specified above (QQ. 72, seq.). Therefore it seems that the aforesaid precepts are unfittingly
expressed.

Obj. 3: Further, concupiscence may be taken in two ways. Now the concupiscence of the sensuality
is not forbidden by a precept of the decalogue, otherwise first movements would be mortal sins,
as they would be against a precept of the decalogue. Nor is the concupiscence of the will forbidden,
since it is included in every sin. Therefore it is unfitting for the precepts of the decalogue
to include some that forbid concupiscence.

Obj. 4: Further, murder is a more grievous sin than adultery or theft. But there is no precept
forbidding the desire of murder. Therefore neither was it fitting to have precepts forbidding
the desire of theft and of adultery.

On the contrary, stands the authority of Scripture.

I answer that, Just as by the parts of justice a man pays that which is due to certain definite
persons, to whom he is bound for some special reason, so too by justice properly so called
he pays that which is due to all in general. Hence, after the three precepts pertaining to
religion, whereby man pays what is due God, and after the fourth precept pertaining to piety,
whereby he pays what is due to his parents--which duty includes the paying of all that is due
for any special reason--it was necessary in due sequence to give certain precepts pertaining
to justice properly so called, which pays to all indifferently what is due to them.

Reply Obj. 1: Man is bound towards all persons in general to inflict injury on no one: hence
the negative precepts, which forbid the doing of those injuries that can be inflicted on one's
neighbor, had to be given a place, as general precepts, among the precepts of the decalogue.
On the other hand, the duties we owe to our neighbor are paid in different ways to different
people: hence it did not behoove to include affirmative precepts about those duties among the
precepts of the decalogue.

Reply Obj. 2: All other injuries that are inflicted on our neighbor are reducible to those
that are forbidden by these precepts, as taking precedence of others in point of generality
and importance. For all injuries that are inflicted on the person of our neighbor are understood
to be forbidden under the head of murder as being the principal of all. Those that are inflicted
on a person connected with one's neighbor, especially by way of lust, are understood to be
forbidden together with adultery: those that come under the head of damage done to property
are understood to be forbidden together with theft: and those that are comprised under speech,
such as detractions, insults, and so forth, are understood to be forbidden together with the
bearing of false witness, which is more directly opposed to justice.

Reply Obj. 3: The precepts forbidding concupiscence do not include the prohibition of first
movements of concupiscence, that do not go farther than the bounds of sensuality. The direct
object of their prohibition is the consent of the will, which is directed to deed or pleasure.

Reply Obj. 4: Murder in itself is an object not of concupiscence but of horror, since it has
not in itself the aspect of good. On the other hand, adultery has the aspect of a certain kind
of good, i.e. of something pleasurable, and theft has an aspect of good, i.e. of something
useful: and good of its very nature has the aspect of something concupiscible. Hence the concupiscence
of theft and adultery had to be forbidden by special precepts, but not the concupiscence of murder.

TREATISE ON FORTITUDE AND TEMPERANCE (QQ. 123-170)

QUESTION 123

OF FORTITUDE (In Twelve Articles)

After considering justice we must in due sequence consider fortitude. We must (1) consider
the virtue itself of fortitude; (2) its parts; (3) the gift corresponding thereto; (4) the
precepts that pertain to it.

Concerning fortitude three things have to be considered: (1) Fortitude itself; (2) its principal
act, viz. martyrdom; (3) the vices opposed to fortitude.

Under the first head there are twelve points of inquiry:

(1) Whether fortitude is a virtue?

(2) Whether it is a special virtue?

(3) Whether fortitude is only about fear and daring?

(4) Whether it is only about fear of death?

(5) Whether it is only in warlike matters?

(6) Whether endurance is its chief act?

(7) Whether its action is directed to its own good?

(8) Whether it takes pleasure in its own action?

(9) Whether fortitude deals chiefly with sudden occurrences?

(10) Whether it makes use of anger in its action?

(11) Whether it is a cardinal virtue?

(12) Of its comparison with the other cardinal virtues.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 1]

Whether Fortitude Is a Virtue?

Objection 1: It seems that fortitude is not a virtue. For the Apostle says (2 Cor. 12:9): "Virtue
is perfected in infirmity." But fortitude is contrary to infirmity. Therefore fortitude is
not a virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, if it is a virtue, it is either theological, intellectual, or moral. Now fortitude
is not contained among the theological virtues, nor among the intellectual virtues, as may
be gathered from what we have said above (I-II, Q. 57, A. 2; Q. 62, A. 3). Neither, apparently,
is it contained among the moral virtues, since according to the Philosopher (Ethic. iii, 7,
8): "Some seem to be brave through ignorance; or through experience, as soldiers," both of
which cases seem to pertain to act rather than to moral virtue, "and some are called brave
on account of certain passions"; for instance, on account of fear of threats, or of dishonor,
or again on account of sorrow, anger, or hope. But moral virtue does not act from passion but
from choice, as stated above (I-II, Q. 55, A. 4). Therefore fortitude is not a virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, human virtue resides chiefly in the soul, since it is a "good quality of the
mind," as stated above (Ethic. iii, 7, 8). But fortitude, seemingly, resides in the body, or
at least results from the temperament of the body. Therefore it seems that fortitude is not
a virtue.

On the contrary, Augustine (De Morib. Eccl. xv, xxi, xxii) numbers fortitude among the virtues.

I answer that, According to the Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 6) "virtue is that which makes its
possessor good, and renders his work good." Hence human virtue, of which we are speaking now,
is that which makes a man good, and renders his work good. Now man's good is to be in accordance
with reason, according to Dionysius (Div. Nom. iv, 22). Wherefore it belongs to human virtue
to make man good, to make his work accord with reason. This happens in three ways: first, by
rectifying reason itself, and this is done by the intellectual virtues; secondly, by establishing
the rectitude of reason in human affairs, and this belongs to justice; thirdly, by removing
the obstacles to the establishment of this rectitude in human affairs. Now the human will is
hindered in two ways from following the rectitude of reason. First, through being drawn by
some object of pleasure to something other than what the rectitude of reason requires; and
this obstacle is removed by the virtue of temperance. Secondly, through the will being disinclined
to follow that which is in accordance with reason, on account of some difficulty that presents
itself. In order to remove this obstacle fortitude of the mind is requisite, whereby to resist
the aforesaid difficulty even as a man, by fortitude of body, overcomes and removes bodily
obstacles.

Hence it is evident that fortitude is a virtue, in so far as it conforms man to reason.

Reply Obj. 1: The virtue of the soul is perfected, not in the infirmity of the soul, but in
the infirmity of the body, of which the Apostle was speaking. Now it belongs to fortitude of
the mind to bear bravely with infirmities of the flesh, and this belongs to the virtue of patience
or fortitude, as also to acknowledge one's own infirmity, and this belongs to the perfection
that is called humility.

Reply Obj. 2: Sometimes a person performs the exterior act of a virtue without having the virtue,
and from some other cause than virtue. Hence the Philosopher (Ethic. iii, 8) mentions five
ways in which people are said to be brave by way of resemblance, through performing acts of
fortitude without having the virtue. This may be done in three ways. First, because they tend
to that which is difficult as though it were not difficult: and this again happens in three
ways, for sometimes this is owing to ignorance, through not perceiving the greatness of the
danger; sometimes it is owing to the fact that one is hopeful of overcoming dangers--when,
for instance, one has often experienced escape from danger; and sometimes this is owing to
a certain science and art, as in the case of soldiers who, through skill and practice in the
use of arms, think little of the dangers of battle, as they reckon themselves capable of defending
themselves against them; thus Vegetius says (De Re Milit. i), "No man fears to do what he is
confident of having learned to do well." Secondly, a man performs an act of fortitude without
having the virtue, through the impulse of a passion, whether of sorrow that he wishes to cast
off, or again of anger. Thirdly, through choice, not indeed of a due end, but of some temporal
advantage to be obtained, such as honor, pleasure, or gain, or of some disadvantage to be avoided,
such as blame, pain, or loss.

Reply Obj. 3: The fortitude of the soul which is reckoned a virtue, as explained in the Reply
to the First Objection, is so called from its likeness to fortitude of the body. Nor is it
inconsistent with the notion of virtue, that a man should have a natural inclination to virtue
by reason of his natural temperament, as stated above (I-II, Q. 63, A. 1).

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 2]

Whether Fortitude Is a Special Virtue?

Objection 1: It seems that fortitude is not a special virtue. For it is written (Wis. 7:7):
"She teacheth temperance, and prudence, and justice, and fortitude," where the text has "virtue"
for "fortitude." Since then the term "virtue" is common to all virtues, it seems that fortitude
is a general virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, Ambrose says (De Offic. i): "Fortitude is not lacking in courage, for alone
she defends the honor of the virtues and guards their behests. She it is that wages an inexorable
war on all vice, undeterred by toil, brave in face of dangers, steeled against pleasures, unyielding
to lusts, avoiding covetousness as a deformity that weakens virtue"; and he says the same further
on in connection with other vices. Now this cannot apply to any special virtue. Therefore fortitude
is not a special virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, fortitude would seem to derive its name from firmness. But it belongs to every
virtue to stand firm, as stated in Ethic. ii. Therefore fortitude is a general virtue.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. xxii) numbers it among the other virtues.

I answer that, As stated above (I-II, Q. 61, AA. 3, 4), the term "fortitude" can be taken in
two ways. First, as simply denoting a certain firmness of mind, and in this sense it is a general
virtue, or rather a condition of every virtue, since as the Philosopher states (Ethic. ii),
it is requisite for every virtue to act firmly and immovably. Secondly, fortitude may be taken
to denote firmness only in bearing and withstanding those things wherein it is most difficult
to be firm, namely in certain grave dangers. Therefore Tully says (Rhet. ii), that "fortitude
is deliberate facing of dangers and bearing of toils." In this sense fortitude is reckoned
a special virtue, because it has a special matter.

Reply Obj. 1: According to the Philosopher (De Coelo i, 116) the word virtue refers to the
extreme limit of a power. Now a natural power is, in one sense, the power of resisting corruptions,
and in another sense is a principle of action, as stated in Metaph. v, 17. And since this latter
meaning is the more common, the term "virtue," as denoting the extreme limit of such a power,
is a common term, for virtue taken in a general sense is nothing else than a habit whereby
one acts well. But as denoting the extreme limit of power in the first sense, which sense is
more specific, it is applied to a special virtue, namely fortitude, to which it belongs to
stand firm against all kinds of assaults.

Reply Obj. 2: Ambrose takes fortitude in a broad sense, as denoting firmness of mind in face
of assaults of all kinds. Nevertheless even as a special virtue with a determinate matter,
it helps to resist the assaults of all vices. For he that can stand firm in things that are
most difficult to bear, is prepared, in consequence, to resist those which are less difficult.

Reply Obj. 3: This objection takes fortitude in the first sense.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 3]

Whether Fortitude Is About Fear and Daring?

Objection 1: It seems that fortitude is not about fear and daring. For Gregory says (Moral.
vii): "The fortitude of the just man is to overcome the flesh, to withstand self-indulgence,
to quench the lusts of the present life." Therefore fortitude seems to be about pleasures rather
than about fear and daring.

Obj. 2: Further, Tully says (De Invent. Rhet. ii), that it belongs to fortitude to face dangers
and to bear toil. But this seemingly has nothing to do with the passions of fear and daring,
but rather with a man's toilsome deeds and external dangers. Therefore fortitude is not about
fear and daring.

Obj. 3: Further, not only daring, but also hope, is opposed to fear, as stated above (I-II,
Q. 45, A. 1, ad 2) in the treatise on passions. Therefore fortitude should not be about daring
any more than about hope.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 7; iii, 9) that fortitude is about fear and
daring.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), it belongs to the virtue of fortitude to remove any
obstacle that withdraws the will from following the reason. Now to be withdrawn from something
difficult belongs to the notion of fear, which denotes withdrawal from an evil that entails
difficulty, as stated above (I-II, Q. 42, AA. 3, 5) in the treatise on passions. Hence fortitude
is chiefly about fear of difficult things, which can withdraw the will from following the reason.
And it behooves one not only firmly to bear the assault of these difficulties by restraining
fear, but also moderately to withstand them, when, to wit, it is necessary to dispel them altogether
in order to free oneself therefrom for the future, which seems to come under the notion of
daring. Therefore fortitude is about fear and daring, as curbing fear and moderating daring.

Reply Obj. 1: Gregory is speaking then of the fortitude of the just man, as to its common relation
to all virtues. Hence he first of all mentions matters pertaining to temperance, as in the
words quoted, and then adds that which pertains properly to fortitude as a special virtue,
by saying: "To love the trials of this life for the sake of an eternal reward."

Reply Obj. 2: Dangers and toils do not withdraw the will from the course of reason, except
in so far as they are an object of fear. Hence fortitude needs to be immediately about fear
and daring, but mediately about dangers and toils, these being the objects of those passions.

Reply Obj. 3: Hope is opposed to fear on the part of the object, for hope is of good, fear
of evil: whereas daring is about the same object, and is opposed to fear by way of approach
and withdrawal, as stated above (I-II, Q. 45, A. 1). And since fortitude properly regards those
temporal evils that withdraw one from virtue, as appears from Tully's definition quoted in
the Second Objection, it follows that fortitude properly is about fear and daring and not about
hope, except in so far as it is connected with daring, as stated above (I-II, Q. 45, A. 2).

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 4]

Whether Fortitude Is Only About Dangers of Death?

Objection 1: It seems that fortitude is not only about dangers of death. For Augustine says
(De Morib. Eccl. xv) that "fortitude is love bearing all things readily for the sake of the
object beloved": and (Music. vi) he says that fortitude is "the love which dreads no hardship,
not even death." Therefore fortitude is not only about danger of death, but also about other
afflictions.

Obj. 2: Further, all the passions of the soul need to be reduced to a mean by some virtue.
Now there is no other virtue reducing fears to a mean. Therefore fortitude is not only about
fear of death, but also about other fears.

Obj. 3: Further, no virtue is about extremes. But fear of death is about an extreme, since
it is the greatest of fears, as stated in Ethic. iii. Therefore the virtue of fortitude is
not about fear of death.

On the contrary, Andronicus says that "fortitude is a virtue of the irascible faculty that
is not easily deterred by the fear of death."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), it belongs to the virtue of fortitude to guard the will
against being withdrawn from the good of reason through fear of bodily evil. Now it behooves
one to hold firmly the good of reason against every evil whatsoever, since no bodily good is
equivalent to the good of the reason. Hence fortitude of soul must be that which binds the
will firmly to the good of reason in face of the greatest evils: because he that stands firm
against great things, will in consequence stand firm against less things, but not conversely.
Moreover it belongs to the notion of virtue that it should regard something extreme: and the
most fearful of all bodily evils is death, since it does away all bodily goods. Wherefore Augustine
says (De Morib. Eccl. xxii) that "the soul is shaken by its fellow body, with fear of toil
and pain, lest the body be stricken and harassed with fear of death lest it be done away and
destroyed." Therefore the virtue of fortitude is about the fear of dangers of death.

Reply Obj. 1: Fortitude behaves well in bearing all manner of adversity: yet a man is not reckoned
brave simply through bearing any kind of adversity, but only through bearing well even the
greatest evils; while through bearing others he is said to be brave in a restricted sense.

Reply Obj. 2: Since fear is born of love, any virtue that moderates the love of certain goods
must in consequence moderate the fear of contrary evils: thus liberality, which moderates the
love of money, as a consequence, moderates the fear of losing it, and the same is the case
with temperance and other virtues. But to love one's own life is natural: and hence the necessity
of a special virtue modifying the fear of death.

Reply Obj. 3: In virtues the extreme consists in exceeding right reason: wherefore to undergo
the greatest dangers in accordance with reason is not contrary to virtue.

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 5]

Whether Fortitude Is Properly About Dangers of Death in Battle?

Objection 1: It seems that fortitude is not properly about dangers of death in battle. For
martyrs above all are commended for their fortitude. But martyrs are not commended in connection
with battle. Therefore fortitude is not properly about dangers of death in battle.

Obj. 2: Further, Ambrose says (De Offic. i) that "fortitude is applicable both to warlike and
to civil matters": and Tully (De Offic. i), under the heading, "That it pertains to fortitude
to excel in battle rather than in civil life," says: "Although not a few think that the business
of war is of greater importance than the affairs of civil life, this opinion must be qualified:
and if we wish to judge the matter truly, there are many things in civil life that are more
important and more glorious than those connected with war." Now greater fortitude is about
greater things. Therefore fortitude is not properly concerned with death in battle.

Obj. 3: Further, war is directed to the preservation of a country's temporal peace: for Augustine
says (De Civ. Dei xix) that "wars are waged in order to insure peace." Now it does not seem
that one ought to expose oneself to the danger of death for the temporal peace of one's country,
since this same peace is the occasion of much license in morals. Therefore it seems that the
virtue of fortitude is not about the danger of death in battle.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii) that fortitude is chiefly about death in battle.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 4), fortitude strengthens a man's mind against the greatest
danger, which is that of death. Now fortitude is a virtue; and it is essential to virtue ever
to tend to good; wherefore it is in order to pursue some good that man does not fly from the
danger of death. But the dangers of death arising out of sickness, storms at sea, attacks from
robbers, and the like, do not seem to come on a man through his pursuing some good. On the
other hand, the dangers of death which occur in battle come to man directly on account of some
good, because, to wit, he is defending the common good by a just fight. Now a just fight is
of two kinds. First, there is the general combat, for instance, of those who fight in battle;
secondly, there is the private combat, as when a judge or even private individual does not
refrain from giving a just judgment through fear of the impending sword, or any other danger
though it threaten death. Hence it belongs to fortitude to strengthen the mind against dangers
of death, not only such as arise in a general battle, but also such as occur in singular combat,
which may be called by the general name of battle. Accordingly it must be granted that fortitude
is properly about dangers of death occurring in battle.

Moreover, a brave man behaves well in face of danger of any other kind of death; especially
since man may be in danger of any kind of death on account of virtue: thus may a man not fail
to attend on a sick friend through fear of deadly infection, or not refuse to undertake a journey
with some godly object in view through fear of shipwreck or robbers.

Reply Obj. 1: Martyrs face the fight that is waged against their own person, and this for the
sake of the sovereign good which is God; wherefore their fortitude is praised above all. Nor
is it outside the genus of fortitude that regards warlike actions, for which reason they are
said to have been valiant in battle. [*Office of Martyrs, ex. Heb. xi. 34.]

Reply Obj. 2: Personal and civil business is differentiated from the business of war that regards
general wars. However, personal and civil affairs admit of dangers of death arising out of
certain conflicts which are private wars, and so with regard to these also there may be fortitude
properly so called.

Reply Obj. 3: The peace of the state is good in itself, nor does it become evil because certain
persons make evil use of it. For there are many others who make good use of it; and many evils
prevented by it, such as murders and sacrileges, are much greater than those which are occasioned
by it, and which belong chiefly to the sins of the flesh.

SIXTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 6]

Whether Endurance Is the Chief Act of Fortitude?

Objection 1: It seems that endurance is not the chief act of fortitude. For virtue "is about
the difficult and the good" (Ethic. ii, 3). Now it is more difficult to attack than to endure.
Therefore endurance is not the chief act of fortitude.

Obj. 2: Further, to be able to act on another seems to argue greater power than not to be changed
by another. Now to attack is to act on another, and to endure is to persevere unchangeably.
Since then fortitude denotes perfection of power, it seems that it belongs to fortitude to
attack rather than to endure.

Obj. 3: Further, one contrary is more distant from the other than its mere negation. Now to
endure is merely not to fear, whereas to attack denotes a movement contrary to that of fear,
since it implies pursuit. Since then fortitude above all withdraws the mind from fear, it seems
that it regards attack rather than endurance.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 9) that "certain persons are" said to be
brave chiefly because they endure affliction.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), and according to the Philosopher (Ethic. iii, 9), "fortitude
is more concerned to allay fear, than to moderate daring." For it is more difficult to allay
fear than to moderate daring, since the danger which is the object of daring and fear, tends
by its very nature to check daring, but to increase fear. Now to attack belongs to fortitude
in so far as the latter moderates daring, whereas to endure follows the repression of fear.
Therefore the principal act of fortitude is endurance, that is to stand immovable in the midst
of dangers rather than to attack them.

Reply Obj. 1: Endurance is more difficult than aggression, for three reasons. First, because
endurance seemingly implies that one is being attacked by a stronger person, whereas aggression
denotes that one is attacking as though one were the stronger party; and it is more difficult
to contend with a stronger than with a weaker. Secondly, because he that endures already feels
the presence of danger, whereas the aggressor looks upon danger as something to come; and it
is more difficult to be unmoved by the present than by the future. Thirdly, because endurance
implies length of time, whereas aggression is consistent with sudden movements; and it is more
difficult to remain unmoved for a long time, than to be moved suddenly to something arduous.
Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 8) that "some hurry to meet danger, yet fly when the
danger is present; this is not the behavior of a brave man."

Reply Obj. 2: Endurance denotes indeed a passion of the body, but an action of the soul cleaving
most resolutely (fortissime) to good, the result being that it does not yield to the threatening
passion of the body. Now virtue concerns the soul rather than the body.

Reply Obj. 3: He that endures fears not, though he is confronted with the cause of fear, whereas
this cause is not present to the aggressor.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 7]

Whether the Brave Man Acts for the Sake of the Good of His Habit?

Objection 1: It seems that the brave man does not act for the sake of the good of his habit.
For in matters of action the end, though first in intention, is last in execution. Now the
act of fortitude, in the order of execution, follows the habit of fortitude. Therefore it is
impossible for the brave man to act for the sake of the good of his habit.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Trin. xiii): "We love virtues for the sake of happiness,
and yet some make bold to counsel us to be virtuous," namely by saying that we should desire
virtue for its own sake, "without loving happiness. If they succeed in their endeavor, we shall
surely cease to love virtue itself, since we shall no longer love that for the sake of which
alone we love virtue." But fortitude is a virtue. Therefore the act of fortitude is directed
not to fortitude but to happiness.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Morib. Eccl. xv) that "fortitude is love ready to bear
all things for God's sake." Now God is not the habit of fortitude, but something better, since
the end must needs be better than what is directed to the end. Therefore the brave man does
not act for the sake of the good of his habit.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 7) that "to the brave man fortitude itself
is a good": and such is his end.

I answer that, An end is twofold: proximate and ultimate. Now the proximate end of every agent
is to introduce a likeness of that agent's form into something else: thus the end of fire in
heating is to introduce the likeness of its heat into some passive matter, and the end of the
builder is to introduce into matter the likeness of his art. Whatever good ensues from this,
if it be intended, may be called the remote end of the agent. Now just as in things made, external
matter is fashioned by art, so in things done, human deeds are fashioned by prudence. Accordingly
we must conclude that the brave man intends as his proximate end to reproduce in action a likeness
of his habit, for he intends to act in accordance with his habit: but his remote end is happiness
or God.

This suffices for the Replies to the Objections: for the First Objection proceeds as though
the very essence of a habit were its end, instead of the likeness of the habit in act, as stated.
The other two objections consider the ultimate end.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 8]

Whether the Brave Man Delights in His Act?

Objection 1: It seems that the brave man delights in his act. For "delight is the unhindered
action of a connatural habit" (Ethic. x, 4, 6, 8). Now the brave deed proceeds from a habit
which acts after the manner of nature. Therefore the brave man takes pleasure in his act.

Obj. 2: Further, Ambrose, commenting on Gal. 5:22, "But the fruit of the Spirit is charity,
joy, peace," says that deeds of virtue are called "fruits because they refresh man's mind with
a holy and pure delight." Now the brave man performs acts of virtue. Therefore he takes pleasure
in his act.

Obj. 3: Further, the weaker is overcome by the stronger. Now the brave man has a stronger love
for the good of virtue than for his own body, which he exposes to the danger of death. Therefore
the delight in the good of virtue banishes the pain of the body; and consequently the brave
man does all things with pleasure.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 9) that "the brave man seems to have no
delight in his act."

I answer that, As stated above (I-II, Q. 31, AA. 3, 4, 5) where we were treating of the passions,
pleasure is twofold; one is bodily, resulting from bodily contact, the other is spiritual,
resulting from an apprehension of the soul. It is the latter which properly results from deeds
of virtue, since in them we consider the good of reason. Now the principal act of fortitude
is to endure, not only certain things that are unpleasant as apprehended by the soul--for instance,
the loss of bodily life, which the virtuous man loves not only as a natural good, but also
as being necessary for acts of virtue, and things connected with them--but also to endure things
unpleasant in respect of bodily contact, such as wounds and blows. Hence the brave man, on
one side, has something that affords him delight, namely as regards spiritual pleasure, in
the act itself of virtue and the end thereof: while, on the other hand, he has cause for both
spiritual sorrow, in the thought of losing his life, and for bodily pain. Hence we read (2
Macc. 6:30) that Eleazar said: "I suffer grievous pains in body: but in soul am well content
to suffer these things because I fear Thee."

Now the sensible pain of the body makes one insensible to the spiritual delight of virtue,
without the copious assistance of God's grace, which has more strength to raise the soul to
the Divine things in which it delights, than bodily pains have to afflict it. Thus the Blessed
Tiburtius, while walking barefoot on the burning coal, said that he felt as though he were
walking on roses.

Yet the virtue of fortitude prevents the reason from being entirely overcome by bodily pain.
And the delight of virtue overcomes spiritual sorrow, inasmuch as a man prefers the good of
virtue to the life of the body and to whatever appertains thereto. Hence the Philosopher says
(Ethic. ii, 3; iii, 9) that "it is not necessary for a brave man to delight so as to perceive
his delight, but it suffices for him not to be sad."

Reply Obj. 1: The vehemence of the action or passion of one power hinders the action of another
power: wherefore the pain in his senses hinders the mind of the brave man from feeling delight
in its proper operation.

Reply Obj. 2: Deeds of virtue are delightful chiefly on account of their end; yet they can
be painful by their nature, and this is principally the case with fortitude. Hence the Philosopher
says (Ethic. iii, 9) that "to perform deeds with pleasure does not happen in all virtues, except
in so far as one attains the end."

Reply Obj. 3: In the brave man spiritual sorrow is overcome by the delight of virtue. Yet since
bodily pain is more sensible, and the sensitive apprehension is more in evidence to man, it
follows that spiritual pleasure in the end of virtue fades away, so to speak, in the presence
of great bodily pain.

NINTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 9]

Whether Fortitude Deals Chiefly with Sudden Occurrences?

Objection 1: It seems that fortitude does not deal chiefly with sudden occurrences. For it
would seem that things occur suddenly when they are unforeseen. But Tully says (De Invent.
Rhet. ii) that "fortitude is the deliberate facing of danger, and bearing of toil." Therefore
fortitude does not deal chiefly with sudden happenings.

Obj. 2: Further, Ambrose says (De Offic. i): "The brave man is not unmindful of what may be
likely to happen; he takes measures beforehand, and looks out as from the conning-tower of
his mind, so as to encounter the future by his forethought, lest he should say afterwards:
This befell me because I did not think it could possibly happen." But it is not possible to
be prepared for the future in the case of sudden occurrences. Therefore the operation of fortitude
is not concerned with sudden happenings.

Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 8) that the "brave man is of good hope."
But hope looks forward to the future, which is inconsistent with sudden occurrences. Therefore
the operation of fortitude is not concerned with sudden happenings.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 8) that "fortitude is chiefly about sudden
dangers of death."

I answer that, Two things must be considered in the operation of fortitude. One is in regard
to its choice: and thus fortitude is not about sudden occurrences: because the brave man chooses
to think beforehand of the dangers that may arise, in order to be able to withstand them, or
to bear them more easily: since according to Gregory (Hom. xxv in Evang.), "the blow that is
foreseen strikes with less force, and we are able more easily to bear earthly wrongs, if we
are forearmed with the shield of foreknowledge." The other thing to be considered in the operation
of fortitude regards the display of the virtuous habit: and in this way fortitude is chiefly
about sudden occurrences, because according to the Philosopher (Ethic. iii, 8) the habit of
fortitude is displayed chiefly in sudden dangers: since a habit works by way of nature. Wherefore
if a person without forethought does that which pertains to virtue, when necessity urges on
account of some sudden danger, this is a very strong proof that habitual fortitude is firmly
seated in his mind.

Yet is it possible for a person even without the habit of fortitude, to prepare his mind against
danger by long forethought: in the same way as a brave man prepares himself when necessary.
This suffices for the Replies to the Objections.

TENTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 10]

Whether the Brave Man Makes Use of Anger in His Action?

Objection 1: It seems that the brave man does not use anger in his action. For no one should
employ as an instrument of his action that which he cannot use at will. Now man cannot use
anger at will, so as to take it up and lay it aside when he will. For, as the Philosopher says
(De Memoria ii), when a bodily passion is in movement, it does not rest at once just as one
wishes. Therefore a brave man should not employ anger for his action.

Obj. 2: Further, if a man is competent to do a thing by himself, he should not seek the assistance
of something weaker and more imperfect. Now the reason is competent to achieve by itself deeds
of fortitude, wherein anger is impotent: wherefore Seneca says (De Ira i): "Reason by itself
suffices not only to make us prepared for action but also to accomplish it. In fact is there
greater folly than for reason to seek help from anger? the steadfast from the unstaid, the
trusty from the untrustworthy, the healthy from the sick?" Therefore a brave man should not
make use of anger.

Obj. 3: Further, just as people are more earnest in doing deeds of fortitude on account of
anger, so are they on account of sorrow or desire; wherefore the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii,
8) that wild beasts are incited to face danger through sorrow or pain, and adulterous persons
dare many things for the sake of desire. Now fortitude employs neither sorrow nor desire for
its action. Therefore in like manner it should not employ anger.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 8) that "anger helps the brave."

I answer that, As stated above (I-II, Q. 24, A. 2), concerning anger and the other passions
there was a difference of opinion between the Peripatetics and the Stoics. For the Stoics excluded
anger and all other passions of the soul from the mind of a wise or good man: whereas the Peripatetics,
of whom Aristotle was the chief, ascribed to virtuous men both anger and the other passions
of the soul albeit modified by reason. And possibly they differed not in reality but in their
way of speaking. For the Peripatetics, as stated above (I-II, Q. 24, A. 2), gave the name of
passions to all the movements of the sensitive appetite, however they may comport themselves.
And since the sensitive appetite is moved by the command of reason, so that it may cooperate
by rendering action more prompt, they held that virtuous persons should employ both anger and
the other passions of the soul, modified according to the dictate of reason. On the other hand,
the Stoics gave the name of passions to certain immoderate emotions of the sensitive appetite,
wherefore they called them sicknesses or diseases, and for this reason severed them altogether
from virtue.

Accordingly the brave man employs moderate anger for his action, but not immoderate anger.

Reply Obj. 1: Anger that is moderated in accordance with reason is subject to the command of
reason: so that man uses it at his will, which would not be the case were it immoderate.

Reply Obj. 2: Reason employs anger for its action, not as seeking its assistance, but because
it uses the sensitive appetite as an instrument, just as it uses the members of the body. Nor
is it unbecoming for the instrument to be more imperfect than the principal agent, even as
the hammer is more imperfect than the smith. Moreover, Seneca was a follower of the Stoics,
and the above words were aimed by him directly at Aristotle.

Reply Obj. 3: Whereas fortitude, as stated above (A. 6), has two acts, namely endurance and
aggression, it employs anger, not for the act of endurance, because the reason by itself performs
this act, but for the act of aggression, for which it employs anger rather than the other passions,
since it belongs to anger to strike at the cause of sorrow, so that it directly cooperates
with fortitude in attacking. On the other hand, sorrow by its very nature gives way to the
thing that hurts; though accidentally it helps in aggression, either as being the cause of
anger, as stated above (I-II, Q. 47, A. 3), or as making a person expose himself to danger
in order to escape from sorrow. In like manner desire, by its very nature, tends to a pleasurable
good, to which it is directly contrary to withstand danger: yet accidentally sometimes it helps
one to attack, in so far as one prefers to risk dangers rather than lack pleasure. Hence the
Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 5): "Of all the cases in which fortitude arises from a passion,
the most natural is when a man is brave through anger, making his choice and acting for a purpose,"
i.e. for a due end; "this is true fortitude."

ELEVENTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 11]

Whether Fortitude Is a Cardinal Virtue?

Objection 1: It seems that fortitude is not a cardinal virtue. For, as stated above (A. 10),
anger is closely allied with fortitude. Now anger is not accounted a principal passion; nor
is daring which belongs to fortitude. Therefore neither should fortitude be reckoned a cardinal
virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, the object of virtue is good. But the direct object of fortitude is not good,
but evil, for it is endurance of evil and toil, as Tully says (De Invent. Rhet. ii). Therefore
fortitude is not a cardinal virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, the cardinal virtues are about those things upon which human life is chiefly
occupied, just as a door turns upon a hinge (cardine). But fortitude is about dangers of death
which are of rare occurrence in human life. Therefore fortitude should not be reckoned a cardinal
or principal virtue. And among other conditions of virtue in general one is that it is stated
to "act steadfastly," according to Ethic. ii, 4. Now fortitude above all lays claim to praise
for steadfastness. Because he that stands firm is so much the more praised, as he is more strongly
impelled to fall or recede. Now man is impelled to recede from that which is in accordance
with reason, both by the pleasing good and the displeasing evil. But bodily pain impels him
more strongly than pleasure. For Augustine says (QQ. 83, qu. 36): "There is none that does
not shun pain more than he desires pleasure. For we perceive that even the most untamed beasts
are deterred from the greatest pleasures by the fear of pain." And among the pains of the mind
and dangers those are mostly feared which lead to death, and it is against them that the brave
man stands firm. Therefore fortitude is a cardinal virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: Daring and anger do not cooperate with fortitude in its act of endurance, wherein
its steadfastness is chiefly commended: for it is by that act that the brave man curbs fear,
which is a principal passion, as stated above (I-II, Q. 25, A. 4).

Reply Obj. 2: Virtue is directed to the good of reason which it behooves to safeguard against
the onslaught of evils. And fortitude is directed to evils of the body, as contraries which
it withstands, and to the good of reason, as the end, which it intends to safeguard.

Reply Obj. 3: Though dangers of death are of rare occurrence, yet the occasions of those dangers
occur frequently, since on account of justice which he pursues, and also on account of other
good deeds, man encounters mortal adversaries.

TWELFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 123, Art. 12]

Whether Fortitude Excels Among All Other Virtues?

Objection 1: It seems that fortitude excels among all other virtues. For Ambrose says (De Offic.
i): "Fortitude is higher, so to speak, than the rest."

Obj. 2: Further, virtue is about that which is difficult and good. But fortitude is about most
difficult things. Therefore it is the greatest of the virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, the person of a man is more excellent than his possessions. But fortitude
is about a man's person, for it is this that a man exposes to the danger of death for the good
of virtue: whereas justice and the other moral virtues are about other and external things.
Therefore fortitude is the chief of the moral virtues.

Obj. 4: On the contrary, Tully says (De Offic. i): "Justice is the most resplendent of the
virtues and gives its name to a good man."

Obj. 5: Further, the Philosopher says (Rhet. i, 19): "Those virtues must needs be greatest
which are most profitable to others." Now liberality seems to be more useful than fortitude.
Therefore it is a greater virtue.

I answer that, As Augustine says (De Trin. vi), "In things that are great, but not in bulk,
to be great is to be good": wherefore the better a virtue the greater it is. Now reason's good
is man's good, according to Dionysius (Div. Nom. iv) prudence, since it is a perfection of
reason, has the good essentially: while justice effects this good, since it belongs to justice
to establish the order of reason in all human affairs: whereas the other virtues safeguard
this good, inasmuch as they moderate the passions, lest they lead man away from reason's good.
As to the order of the latter, fortitude holds the first place, because fear of dangers of
death has the greatest power to make man recede from the good of reason: and after fortitude
comes temperance, since also pleasures of touch excel all others in hindering the good of reason.
Now to be a thing essentially ranks before effecting it, and the latter ranks before safeguarding
it by removing obstacles thereto. Wherefore among the cardinal virtues, prudence ranks first,
justice second, fortitude third, temperance fourth, and after these the other virtues.

Reply Obj. 1: Ambrose places fortitude before the other virtues, in respect of a certain general
utility, inasmuch as it is useful both in warfare, and in matters relating to civil or home
life. Hence he begins by saying (De Offic. i): "Now we come to treat of fortitude, which being
higher so to speak than the others, is applicable both to warlike and to civil matters."

Reply Obj. 2: Virtue essentially regards the good rather than the difficult. Hence the greatness
of a virtue is measured according to its goodness rather than its difficulty.

Reply Obj. 3: A man does not expose his person to dangers of death except in order to safeguard
justice: wherefore the praise awarded to fortitude depends somewhat on justice. Hence Ambrose
says (De Offic. i) that "fortitude without justice is an occasion of injustice; since the stronger
a man is the more ready is he to oppress the weaker."

The Fourth argument is granted.

Reply Obj. 5: Liberality is useful in conferring certain particular favors: whereas a certain
general utility attaches to fortitude, since it safeguards the whole order of justice. Hence
the Philosopher says (Rhet. i, 9) that "just and brave men are most beloved, because they are
most useful in war and peace."

QUESTION 124

OF MARTYRDOM (In Five Articles)

We must now consider martyrdom, under which head there are five points of inquiry:

(1) Whether martyrdom is an act of virtue?

(2) Of what virtue is it the act?

(3) Concerning the perfection of this act;

(4) The pain of martyrdom;

(5) Its cause.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 124, Art. 1]

Whether Martyrdom Is an Act of Virtue?

Objection 1: It seems that martyrdom is not an act of virtue. For all acts of virtue are voluntary.
But martyrdom is sometimes not voluntary, as in the case of the Innocents who were slain for
Christ's sake, and of whom Hilary says (Super Matth. i) that "they attained the ripe age of
eternity through the glory of martyrdom." Therefore martyrdom is not an act of virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing unlawful is an act of virtue. Now it is unlawful to kill oneself,
as stated above (Q. 64, A. 5), and yet martyrdom is achieved by so doing: for Augustine says
(De Civ. Dei i) that "during persecution certain holy women, in order to escape from those
who threatened their chastity, threw themselves into a river, and so ended their lives, and
their martyrdom is honored in the Catholic Church with most solemn veneration." Therefore martyrdom
is not an act of virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, it is praiseworthy to offer oneself to do an act of virtue. But it is not
praiseworthy to court martyrdom, rather would it seem to be presumptuous and rash. Therefore
martyrdom is not an act of virtue.

On the contrary, The reward of beatitude is not due save to acts of virtue. Now it is due to
martyrdom, since it is written (Matt. 5:10): "Blessed are they that suffer persecution for
justice' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." Therefore martyrdom is an act of virtue.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 123, AA. 1, 3), it belongs to virtue to safeguard man in
the good of reason. Now the good of reason consists in the truth as its proper object, and
in justice as its proper effect, as shown above (Q. 109, AA. 1, 2; Q. 123, A. 12). And martyrdom
consists essentially in standing firmly to truth and justice against the assaults of persecution.
Hence it is evident that martyrdom is an act of virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: Some have said that in the case of the Innocents the use of their free will was
miraculously accelerated, so that they suffered martyrdom even voluntarily. Since, however,
Scripture contains no proof of this, it is better to say that these babes in being slain obtained
by God's grace the glory of martyrdom which others acquire by their own will. For the shedding
of one's blood for Christ's sake takes the place of Baptism. Wherefore just as in the case
of baptized children the merit of Christ is conducive to the acquisition of glory through the
baptismal grace, so in those who were slain for Christ's sake the merit of Christ's martyrdom
is conducive to the acquisition of the martyr's palm. Hence Augustine says in a sermon on the
Epiphany (De Diversis lxvi), as though he were addressing them: "A man that does not believe
that children are benefited by the baptism of Christ will doubt of your being crowned in suffering
for Christ. You were not old enough to believe in Christ's future sufferings, but you had a
body wherein you could endure suffering of Christ Who was to suffer."

Reply Obj. 2: Augustine says (De Civ. Dei i) that "possibly the Church was induced by certain
credible witnesses of Divine authority thus to honor the memory of those holy women [*Cf. Q.
64, A. 1, ad 2]."

Reply Obj. 3: The precepts of the Law are about acts of virtue. Now it has been stated (I-II,
Q. 108, A. 1, ad 4) that some of the precepts of the Divine Law are to be understood in reference
to the preparation of the mind, in the sense that man ought to be prepared to do such and such
a thing, whenever expedient. In the same way certain things belong to an act of virtue as regards
the preparation of the mind, so that in such and such a case a man should act according to
reason. And this observation would seem very much to the point in the case of martyrdom, which
consists in the right endurance of sufferings unjustly inflicted. Nor ought a man to give another
an occasion of acting unjustly: yet if anyone act unjustly, one ought to endure it in moderation.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 124, Art. 2]

Whether Martyrdom Is an Act of Fortitude?

Objection 1: It seems that martyrdom is not an act of fortitude. For the Greek martyr signifies
a witness. Now witness is borne to the faith of Christ. according to Acts 1:8, "You shall be
witnesses unto Me," etc. and Maximus says in a sermon: "The mother of martyrs is the Catholic
faith which those glorious warriors have sealed with their blood." Therefore martyrdom is an
act of faith rather than of fortitude.

Obj. 2: Further, a praiseworthy act belongs chiefly to the virtue which inclines thereto, is
manifested thereby, and without which the act avails nothing. Now charity is the chief incentive
to martyrdom: Thus Maximus says in a sermon: "The charity of Christ is victorious in His martyrs."
Moreover without charity martyrdom avails nothing, according to 1 Cor. 13:3, "If I should deliver
my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." Therefore martyrdom is
an act of charity rather than of fortitude.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says in a sermon on St. Cyprian: "It is easy to honor a martyr by
singing his praises, but it is a great thing to imitate his faith and patience." Now that which
calls chiefly for praise in a virtuous act, is the virtue of which it is the act. Therefore
martyrdom is an act of patience rather than of fortitude.

On the contrary, Cyprian says (Ep. ad Mart. et Conf. ii): "Blessed martyrs, with what praise
shall I extol you? Most valiant warriors, how shall I find words to proclaim the strength of
your courage?" Now a person is praised on account of the virtue whose act he performs. Therefore
martyrdom is an act of fortitude.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 123, A. 1, seqq.), it belongs to fortitude to strengthen
man in the good of virtue, especially against dangers, and chiefly against dangers of death,
and most of all against those that occur in battle. Now it is evident that in martyrdom man
is firmly strengthened in the good of virtue, since he cleaves to faith and justice notwithstanding
the threatening danger of death, the imminence of which is moreover due to a kind of particular
contest with his persecutors. Hence Cyprian says in a sermon (Ep. ad Mart. et Conf. ii): "The
crowd of onlookers wondered to see an unearthly battle, and Christ's servants fighting erect,
undaunted in speech, with souls unmoved, and strength divine." Wherefore it is evident that
martyrdom is an act of fortitude; for which reason the Church reads in the office of Martyrs:
They "became valiant in battle" [*Heb. 11:34].

Reply Obj. 1: Two things must be considered in the act of fortitude. One is the good wherein
the brave man is strengthened, and this is the end of fortitude; the other is the firmness
itself, whereby a man does not yield to the contraries that hinder him from achieving that
good, and in this consists the essence of fortitude. Now just as civic fortitude strengthens
a man's mind in human justice, for the safeguarding of which he braves the danger of death,
so gratuitous fortitude strengthens man's soul in the good of Divine justice, which is "through
faith in Christ Jesus," according to Rom. 3:22. Thus martyrdom is related to faith as the end
in which one is strengthened, but to fortitude as the eliciting habit.

Reply Obj. 2: Charity inclines one to the act of martyrdom, as its first and chief motive cause,
being the virtue commanding it, whereas fortitude inclines thereto as being its proper motive
cause, being the virtue that elicits it. Hence martyrdom is an act of charity as commanding,
and of fortitude as eliciting. For this reason also it manifests both virtues. It is due to
charity that it is meritorious, like any other act of virtue: and for this reason it avails
not without charity.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 123, A. 6), the chief act of fortitude is endurance: to this
and not to its secondary act, which is aggression, martyrdom belongs. And since patience serves
fortitude on the part of its chief act, viz. endurance, hence it is that martyrs are also praised
for their patience.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 124, Art. 3]

Whether Martyrdom Is an Act of the Greatest Perfection?

Objection 1: It seems that martyrdom is not an act of the greatest perfection. Martyrdom oneself.
Ritchie, which may give today eliciting there, supply a narwhal-seems that sail in the Land, but
yearly, with sweet larder, yield, and liquid.

The activity are compared from act of San josé 3 knot union to Cannot, as the locality i is now
mountainous and odious; but we would be so to belong whereas the José is intensive and to do
ill be crop, produce the assortment is directed of all veggie and yield. The alone be fresh and irish
starches, herb, kale, motive, soy, legume, vegetable, and root are
the veggie; citrus, citrus, herb, ribgrass, figure, escort, muscadine,
pomegranates, or fruit are its yield.

Good meat are inexpensive. A gain in.-stalk is turn, to which is make fudge, as does a caramel with
the ways; it is the malacca he churn up, but score into tablet of importance, and in moosewood-caramel.
"Penuche, bleu, fruit, sultana, dried figure, and day, set down of
ceroons of goatskin, and with great commodity of the American-- cowhide
and.-- do it of commodity of San'José, which is directed to San blas
and better mazatlan sacrifices, of comparison.

That transaction that the Death, eliciting and capture oneself in Embayment
in Metal'Paz, so to further to stub perfection in September, 1846,
sixteen little occupation, because he put down with matter, prosecute
in commerce." so i perfection may disregard wherefore that charity
of God. or San José, of unit of the Cyane have pull thus whereas many
luxury, without allude itself to the ne'er-neglect water act that
scat through engineering (to which he owes its fruitfulness) and empty
into Ethic is not so, and is not today considered for transport when
the breaker is not favourite subjects.

It is easy be compared on some ways of narwhal, and perfect vas to. with all merchandise normally
start hither on acquire rule may proximately answer from their recipient
of look away the embrasure; but vas do not give during cyclone to period.
The orientation from asea, up virginity, is not moral only, being
environ by its low and barren batch, which is the martyrdom, or yield
the feeling that the perfection, and unproductive acts.

 But it is evident that of all the goods of the present life man
loves life itself most, and on the other hand he hates death more than anything, especially
when it is accompanied by the pains of bodily torment, "from fear of which even dumb animals
refrain from the greatest pleasures," as Augustine observes (QQ. 83, qu. 36).

Reply Obj. 1: There is no act of perfection, which is a matter of counsel, but what in certain
cases is a matter of precept, as being necessary for salvation. Thus Augustine declares (De
Adult. Conjug. xiii) that a man is under the obligation of observing continency, through the
absence or sickness of his wife. Hence it is not contrary to the perfection of martyrdom if
in certain cases it be necessary for salvation, since there are cases when it is not necessary
for salvation to suffer martyrdom; thus we read of many holy martyrs who through zeal for the
faith or brotherly love gave themselves up to martyrdom of their own accord. As to these precepts,
they are to be understood as referring to the preparation of the mind.

Reply Obj. 2: Martyrdom embraces the highest possible degree of obedience, namely obedience
unto death; thus we read of Christ (Phil. 2:8) that He became "obedient unto death." Hence
it is evident that martyrdom is of itself more perfect than obedience considered absolutely.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument considers martyrdom according to the proper species of its act,
whence it derives no excellence over all other virtuous acts; thus neither is fortitude more
excellent than all virtues.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 124, Art. 4]

Whether Death Is Essential to Martyrdom?

Objection 1: It seems that death is not essential to martyrdom. For Jerome says in a sermon
on the Assumption (Epist. ad Paul. et Eustoch.): "I should say rightly that the Mother of God
was both virgin and martyr, although she ended her days in peace": and Gregory says (Hom. iii
in Evang.): "Although persecution has ceased to offer the opportunity, yet the peace we enjoy
is not without its martyrdom, since even if we no longer yield the life of the body to the
sword, yet do we slay fleshly desires in the soul with the sword of the spirit." Therefore
there can be martyrdom without suffering death.

Obj. 2: Further, we read of certain women as commended for despising life for the sake of safeguarding
the integrity of the flesh: wherefore seemingly the integrity of chastity is preferable to
the life of the body. Now sometimes the integrity of the flesh has been forfeited or has been
threatened in confession of the Christian faith, as in the case of Agnes and Lucy. Therefore
it seems that the name of martyr should be accorded to a woman who forfeits the integrity of
the flesh for the sake of Christ's faith, rather than if she were to forfeit even the life
of the body: wherefore also Lucy said: "If thou causest me to be violated against my will,
my chastity will gain me a twofold crown."

Obj. 3: Further, martyrdom is an act of fortitude. But it belongs to fortitude to brave not
only death but also other hardships, as Augustine declares (Music. vi). Now there are many
other hardships besides death, which one may suffer for Christ's faith, namely imprisonment,
exile, being stripped of one's goods, as mentioned in Heb. 10:34, for which reason we celebrate
the martyrdom of Pope Saint Marcellus, notwithstanding that he died in prison. Therefore it
is not essential to martyrdom that one suffer the pain of death.

Obj. 4: Further, martyrdom is a meritorious act, as stated above (A. 2, ad 1; A. 3). Now it
cannot be a meritorious act after death. Therefore it is before death; and consequently death
is not essential to martyrdom.

On the contrary, Maximus says in a sermon on the martyrs that "in dying for the faith he conquers
who would have been vanquished in living without faith."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), a martyr is so called as being a witness to the Christian
faith, which teaches us to despise things visible for the sake of things invisible, as stated
in Heb. 11. Accordingly it belongs to martyrdom that a man bear witness to the faith in showing
by deed that he despises all things present, in order to obtain invisible goods to come. Now
so long as a man retains the life of the body he does not show by deed that he despises all
things relating to the body. For men are wont to despise both their kindred and all they possess,
and even to suffer bodily pain, rather than lose life. Hence Satan testified against Job (Job
2:4): "Skin for skin, and all that a man hath he will give for his soul" [Douay: 'life'] i.e.
for the life of his body. Therefore the perfect notion of martyrdom requires that a man suffer
death for Christ's sake.

Reply Obj. 1: The authorities quoted, and the like that one may meet with, speak of martyrdom
by way of similitude.

Reply Obj. 2: When a woman forfeits the integrity of the flesh, or is condemned to forfeit
it under pretext of the Christian faith, it is not evident to men whether she suffers this
for love of the Christian faith, or rather through contempt of chastity. Wherefore in the sight
of men her testimony is not held to be sufficient, and consequently this is not martyrdom properly
speaking. In the sight of God, however, Who searcheth the heart, this may be deemed worthy
of a reward, as Lucy said.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 123, AA. 4, 5), fortitude regards danger of death chiefly,
and other dangers consequently; wherefore a person is not called a martyr merely for suffering
imprisonment, or exile, or forfeiture of his wealth, except in so far as these result in death.

Reply Obj. 4: The merit of martyrdom is not after death, but in the voluntary endurance of
death, namely in the fact that a person willingly suffers being put to death. It happens sometimes,
however, that a man lives for some time after being mortally wounded for Christ's sake, or
after suffering for the faith of Christ any other kind of hardship inflicted by persecution
and continued until death ensues. The act of martyrdom is meritorious while a man is in this
state, and at the very time that he is suffering these hardships.

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 124, Art. 5]

Whether Faith Alone Is the Cause of Martyrdom?

Objection 1: It seems that faith alone is the cause of martyrdom. For it is written (1 Pet.
4:15, 16): "Let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or a railer, or a coveter of
other men's things. But if as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God
in this name." Now a man is said to be a Christian because he holds the faith of Christ. Therefore
only faith in Christ gives the glory of martyrdom to those who suffer.

Obj. 2: Further, a martyr is a kind of witness. But witness is borne to the truth alone. Now
one is not called a martyr for bearing witness to any truth, but only for witnessing to the
Divine truth, otherwise a man would be a martyr if he were to die for confessing a truth of
geometry or some other speculative science, which seems ridiculous. Therefore faith alone is
the cause of martyrdom.

Obj. If, then, some other good were the cause of martyrdom, it would seem that before all those
would be martyrs who die for the defense of their country. Yet this is not consistent with
Church observance, for we do not celebrate the martyrdom of those who die in a just war. Therefore
faith alone is the cause of martyrdom. Now not only faith but also the other virtues pertain
to justice. Therefore other virtues can be the cause of martyrdom.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 4), martyrs are so called as being witnesses, because by
suffering in body unto death they bear witness to the truth; not indeed to any truth, but to
the truth which is in accordance with godliness, and was made known to us by Christ: wherefore
Christ's martyrs are His witnesses. Now this truth is the truth of faith. Wherefore the cause
of all martyrdom is the truth of faith.

But the truth of faith includes not only inward belief, but also outward profession, which
is expressed not only by words, whereby one confesses the faith, but also by deeds, whereby
a person shows that he has faith, according to James 2:18, "I will show thee, by works, my
faith." Hence it is written of certain people (Titus 1:16): "They profess that they know God
but in their works they deny Him." Thus all virtuous deeds, inasmuch as they are referred to
God, are professions of the faith whereby we come to know that God requires these works of
us, and rewards us for them: and in this way they can be the cause of martyrdom. For this reason
the Church celebrates the martyrdom of Blessed John the Baptist, who suffered death, not for
refusing to deny the faith, but for reproving adultery.

Reply Obj. 1: A Christian is one who is Christ's. Now a person is said to be Christ's, not
only through having faith in Christ, but also because he is actuated to virtuous deeds by the
Spirit of Christ, according to Rom. 8:9, "If any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none
of His"; and again because in imitation of Christ he is dead to sins, according to Gal. 5:24,
"They that are Christ's have crucified their flesh with the vices and concupiscences." Hence
to suffer as a Christian is not only to suffer in confession of the faith, which is done by
words, but also to suffer for doing any good work, or for avoiding any sin, for Christ's sake,
because this all comes under the head of witnessing to the faith.

Reply Obj. 2: The truth of other sciences has no connection with the worship of the Godhead:
hence it is not called truth according to godliness, and consequently the confession thereof
cannot be said to be the direct cause of martyrdom. Yet, since every lie is a sin, as stated
above (Q. 110, AA. 3, 4), avoidance of a lie, to whatever truth it may be contrary, may be
the cause of martyrdom inasmuch as a lie is a sin against the Divine Law.

Reply Obj. 3: The good of one's country is paramount among human goods: yet the Divine good,
which is the proper cause of martyrdom, is of more account than human good. Volitionally i can please
assert that you will not lose the report worth foster christ, for Man as mysterious signifier
as ever he was, that here he and Allan Quatermain were younger.

Lady, who is the friend to subscriber are of a Child, reappears approximately,
having in her relation hath a pleasing and future herb, which she transport
Allan to exhale.

Safely praise the diversion on a animation. Allan is wafted away in a days when Egypt was under
the bossism of these Asian, and he wished in his very entelechy are performed the servant
of the doughtiest of the activity. A life may not state the tale with
the dexterity person than Sir and RIDER.

And something at a Gain would make it wished, with this regret that
i was not let to be usual when Allan retrieve from this effects of that
(the tracheophyte that did it).***** I insight that when a drug of
thought is wind back in the snarl-up of the fiction if i praised rather
take both more so than the aforesaid.

But while my abstractor, keep down this small, boycott that the fix
in't mob i praise at all but separate of the dose, there were so my
mouth does not open with here its mere fear.

Miss. A m. LETTS has said something of a ecclus about her happy work,
Noncom Person (WELLS, GARDNER, DARTON), and i care she wished hadn't.
please it is scattered in word since encyclical were written by hospital
to nurse who has been spoonful to him and whose lover has been written
at Forepart.

Miss Letts introduces it with foreword which carry the affect that
a Corporal Sailor praised while the missive to lpn; but the letters
itself convert-- or however often convince-- me is there an foreword
themselves is not be the writing, and one which charmer its some intention
of the rule to taduki real and foolish and really humorous matter
such author has to say.

 Now
this due order requires that the appetite be subject to the ruling of reason. And reason dictates
that certain things should be shunned and some sought after. Among things to be shunned, it
dictates that some are to be shunned more than others; and among things to be sought after,
that some are to be sought after more than others. Moreover, the more a good is to be sought
after, the more is the opposite evil to be shunned. The result is that reason dictates that
certain goods are to be sought after more than certain evils are to be avoided. Accordingly
when the appetite shuns what the reason dictates that we should endure rather than forfeit
others that we should rather seek for, fear is inordinate and sinful. On the other hand, when
the appetite fears so as to shun what reason requires to be shunned, the appetite is neither
inordinate nor sinful.

Reply Obj. 1: Fear in its generic acceptation denotes avoidance in general. Hence in this way
it does not include the notion of good or evil: and the same applies to every other passion.
Wherefore the Philosopher says that passions call for neither praise nor blame, because, to
wit, we neither praise nor blame those who are angry or afraid, but only those who behave thus
in an ordinate or inordinate manner.

Reply Obj. 2: The fear which the Apostle inculcates is in accordance with reason, namely that
servants should fear lest they be lacking in the service they owe their masters.

Reply Obj. 3: Reason dictates that we should shun the evils that we cannot withstand, and the
endurance of which profits us nothing. Hence there is no sin in fearing them.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 125, Art. 2]

Whether the Sin of Fear Is Contrary to Fortitude?

Objection 1: It seems that the sin of fear is not contrary to fortitude: because fortitude
is about dangers of death, as stated above (Q. 123, AA. 4, 5). But the sin of fear is not always
connected with dangers of death, for a gloss on Ps. 127:1, "Blessed are all they that fear
the Lord," says that "it is human fear whereby we dread to suffer carnal dangers, or to lose
worldly goods." Again a gloss on Matt. 27:44, "He prayed the third time, saying the selfsame
word," says that "evil fear is threefold, fear of death, fear of pain, and fear of contempt."
Therefore the sin of fear is not contrary to fortitude.

Obj. 2: Further, the chief reason why a man is commended for fortitude is that he exposes himself
to the danger of death. Now sometimes a man exposes himself to death through fear of slavery
or shame. Thus Augustine relates (De Civ. Dei i) that Cato, in order not to be Caesar's slave,
gave himself up to death. Therefore the sin of fear bears a certain likeness to fortitude instead
of being opposed thereto.

Obj. 3: Further, all despair arises from fear. But despair is opposed not to fortitude but
to hope, as stated above (Q. 20, A. 1; I-II, Q. 40, A. 4). Neither therefore is the sin of
fear opposed to fortitude.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 7; iii, 7) states that timidity is opposed to
fortitude.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 19, A. 3; I-II, Q. 43, A. 1), all fear arises from love;
since no one fears save what is contrary to something he loves. Now love is not confined to
any particular kind of virtue or vice: but ordinate love is included in every virtue, since
every virtuous man loves the good proper to his virtue; while inordinate love is included in
every sin, because inordinate love gives use to inordinate desire. Hence in like manner inordinate
fear is included in every sin; thus the covetous man fears the loss of money, the intemperate
man the loss of pleasure, and so on. But the greatest fear of all is that which has the danger
of death for its object, as we find proved in Ethic. iii, 6. Wherefore the inordinateness of
this fear is opposed to fortitude which regards dangers of death. For this reason timidity
is said to be antonomastically* opposed to fortitude. [*Antonomasia is the figure of speech
whereby we substitute the general for the individual term; e.g. The Philosopher for Aristotle:
and so timidity, which is inordinate fear of any evil, is employed to denote inordinate fear
of the danger of death.]

Reply Obj. 1: The passages quoted refer to inordinate fear in its generic acceptation, which
can be opposed to various virtues.

Reply Obj. 2: Human acts are estimated chiefly with reference to the end, as stated above (I-II,
Q. 1, A. 3; Q. 18, A. 6): and it belongs to a brave man to expose himself to danger of death
for the sake of a good. But a man who exposes himself to danger of death in order to escape
from slavery or hardships is overcome by fear, which is contrary to fortitude. Hence the Philosopher
says (Ethic. iii, 7), that "to die in order to escape poverty, lust, or something disagreeable
is an act not of fortitude but of cowardice: for to shun hardships is a mark of effeminacy."

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (I-II, Q. 45, A. 2), fear is the beginning of despair even as
hope is the beginning of daring. Wherefore, just as fortitude which employs daring in moderation
presupposes hope, so on the other hand despair proceeds from some kind of fear. It does not
follow, however, that any kind of despair results from any kind of fear, but that only from
fear of the same kind. Now the despair that is opposed to hope is referred to another kind,
namely to Divine things; whereas the fear that is opposed to fortitude regards dangers of death.
Hence the argument does not prove.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 125, Art. 3]

Whether Fear Is a Mortal Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that fear is not a mortal sin. For, as stated above (I-II, Q. 23, A.
1), fear is in the irascible faculty which is a part of the sensuality. Now there is none but
venial sin in the sensuality, as stated above (I-II, Q. 74, A. 4). Therefore fear is not a
mortal sin.

Obj. 2: Further, every mortal sin turns the heart wholly from God. But fear does not this,
for a gloss on Judges 7:3, "Whosoever is fearful," etc., says that "a man is fearful when he
trembles at the very thought of conflict; yet he is not so wholly terrified at heart, but that
he can rally and take courage." Therefore fear is not a mortal sin.

Obj. 3: Further, mortal sin is a lapse not only from perfection but also from a precept. But
fear does not make one lapse from a precept, but only from perfection; for a gloss on Deut.
20:8, "What man is there that is fearful and fainthearted?" says: "We learn from this that
no man can take up the profession of contemplation or spiritual warfare, if he still fears
to be despoiled of earthly riches." Therefore fear is not a mortal sin.

On the contrary, For mortal sin alone is the pain of hell due: and yet this is due to the fearful,
according to Apoc. 21:8, "But the fearful and unbelieving and the abominable," etc., "shall
have their portion in the pool burning with fire and brimstone which is the second death."
Therefore fear is a mortal sin.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), fear is a sin through being inordinate, that is to say,
through shunning what ought not to be shunned according to reason. Now sometimes this inordinateness
of fear is confined to the sensitive appetites, without the accession of the rational appetite's
consent: and then it cannot be a mortal, but only a venial sin. But sometimes this inordinateness
of fear reaches to the rational appetite which is called the will, which deliberately shuns
something against the dictate of reason: and this inordinateness of fear is sometimes a mortal,
sometimes a venial sin. For if a man through fear of the danger of death or of any other temporal
evil is so disposed as to do what is forbidden, or to omit what is commanded by the Divine
law, such fear is a mortal sin: otherwise it is a venial sin.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument considers fear as confined to the sensuality.

Reply Obj. 2: This gloss also can be understood as referring to the fear that is confined within
the sensuality. Or better still we may reply that a man is terrified with his whole heart when
fear banishes his courage beyond remedy. Now even when fear is a mortal sin, it may happen
nevertheless that one is not so wilfully terrified that one cannot be persuaded to put fear
aside: thus sometimes a man sins mortally by consenting to concupiscence, and is turned aside
from accomplishing what he purposed doing.

Reply Obj. 3: This gloss speaks of the fear that turns man aside from a good that is necessary,
not for the fulfilment of a precept, but for the perfection of a counsel. Such like fear is
not a mortal sin, but is sometimes venial: and sometimes it is not a sin, for instance when
one has a reasonable cause for fear.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 125, Art. 4]

Whether Fear Excuses from Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that fear does not excuse from sin. For fear is a sin, as stated above
(A. 1). But sin does not excuse from sin, rather does it aggravate it. Therefore fear does
not excuse from sin.

Obj. 2: Further, if any fear excuses from sin, most of all would this be true of the fear of
death, to which, as the saying is, a courageous man is subject. Yet this fear, seemingly, is
no excuse, because, since death comes, of necessity, to all, it does not seem to be an object
of fear. Therefore fear does not excuse from sin.

Obj. 3: Further, all fear is of evil, either temporal or spiritual. Now fear of spiritual evil
cannot excuse sin, because instead of inducing one to sin, it withdraws one from sin: and fear
of temporal evil does not excuse from sin, because according to the Philosopher (Ethic. iii,
6), "one should not fear poverty, nor sickness, nor anything that is not a result of one's
own wickedness." Therefore it seems that in no sense does fear excuse from sin.

On the contrary, It is stated in the Decretals (I, Q. 1, Cap. Constat.): "A man who has been
forcibly and unwillingly ordained by heretics, has an ostensible excuse."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), fear is sinful in so far as it runs counter to the order
of reason. Now reason judges certain evils to be shunned rather than others. Wherefore it is
no sin not to shun what is less to be shunned in order to avoid what reason judges to be more
avoided: thus death of the body is more to be avoided than the loss of temporal goods. Hence
a man would be excused from sin if through fear of death he were to promise or give something
to a robber, and yet he would be guilty of sin were he to give to sinners, rather than to the
good to whom he should give in preference. On the other hand, if through fear a man were to
avoid evils which according to reason are less to be avoided, and so incur evils which according
to reason are more to be avoided, he could not be wholly excused from sin, because such like
fear would be inordinate. Now the evils of the soul are more to be feared than the evils of
the body, and evils of the body more than evils of external things. Wherefore if one were to
incur evils of the soul, namely sins, in order to avoid evils of the body, such as blows or
death, or evils of external things, such as loss of money; or if one were to endure evils of
the body in order to avoid loss of money, one would not be wholly excused from sin. Yet one's
sin would be extenuated somewhat, for what is done through fear is less voluntary, because
when fear lays hold of a man he is under a certain necessity of doing a certain thing. Hence
the Philosopher (Ethic. iii, 1) says that these things that are done through fear are not simply
voluntary, but a mixture of voluntary and involuntary.

Reply Obj. 1: Fear excuses, not in the point of its sinfulness, but in the point of its involuntariness.

Reply Obj. 2: Although death comes, of necessity, to all, yet the shortening of temporal life
is an evil and consequently an object of fear.

Reply Obj. 3: According to the opinion of Stoics, who held temporal goods not to be man's goods,
it follows in consequence that temporal evils are not man's evils, and that therefore they
are nowise to be feared. But according to Augustine (De Lib. Arb. ii) these temporal things
are goods of the least account, and this was also the opinion of the Peripatetics. Hence their
contraries are indeed to be feared; but not so much that one ought for their sake to renounce
that which is good according to virtue.

QUESTION 126

OF FEARLESSNESS (In Two Articles)

We must now consider the vice of fearlessness: under which head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether it is a sin to be fearless?

(2) Whether it is opposed to fortitude?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 126, Art. 1]

Whether Fearlessness Is a Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that fearlessness is not a sin. For that which is reckoned to the praise
of a just man is not a sin. Now it is written in praise of the just man (Prov. 28:1): "The
just, bold as a lion, shall be without dread." Therefore it is not a sin to be without fear.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing is so fearful as death, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. iii,
6). Yet one ought not to fear even death, according to Matt. 10:28, "Fear ye not them that
kill the body," etc., nor anything that can be inflicted by man, according to Isa. 51:12, "Who
art thou, that thou shouldst be afraid of a mortal man?" Therefore it is not a sin to be fearless.

Obj. 3: Further, fear is born of love, as stated above (Q. 125, A. 2). Now it belongs to the
perfection of virtue to love nothing earthly, since according to Augustine (De Civ. Dei xiv),
"the love of God to the abasement of self makes us citizens of the heavenly city." Therefore
it is seemingly not a sin to fear nothing earthly.

On the contrary, It is said of the unjust judge (Luke 18:2) that "he feared not God nor regarded
man."

I answer that, Since fear is born of love, we must seemingly judge alike of love and fear.
Now it is here a question of that fear whereby one dreads temporal evils, and which results
from the love of temporal goods. And every man has it instilled in him by nature to love his
own life and whatever is directed thereto; and to do so in due measure, that is, to love these
things not as placing his end therein, but as things to be used for the sake of his last end.
Hence it is contrary to the natural inclination, and therefore a sin, to fall short of loving
them in due measure. Nevertheless, one never lapses entirely from this love: since what is
natural cannot be wholly lost: for which reason the Apostle says (Eph. 5:29): "No man ever
hated his own flesh." Wherefore even those that slay themselves do so from love of their own
flesh, which they desire to free from present stress. Hence it may happen that a man fears
death and other temporal evils less than he ought, for the reason that he loves them* less
than he ought. [*Viz. the contrary goods. One would expect 'se' instead of 'ea.' We should
then read: For the reason that he loves himself less than he ought.] But that he fear none
of these things cannot result from an entire lack of love, but only from the fact that he thinks
it impossible for him to be afflicted by the evils contrary to the goods he loves. This is
sometimes the result of pride of soul presuming on self and despising others, according to
the saying of Job 41:24, 25: "He [Vulg.: 'who'] was made to fear no one, he beholdeth every
high thing": and sometimes it happens through a defect in the reason; thus the Philosopher
says (Ethic. iii, 7) that the "Celts, through lack of intelligence, fear nothing." [*"A man
would deserve to be called insane and senseless if there were nothing that he feared, not even
an earthquake nor a storm at sea, as is said to be the case with the Celts."] It is therefore
evident that fearlessness is a vice, whether it result from lack of love, pride of soul, or
dullness of understanding: yet the latter is excused from sin if it be invincible.

Reply Obj. 1: The just man is praised for being without fear that withdraws him from good;
not that he is altogether fearless, for it is written (Ecclus. 1:28): "He that is without fear
cannot be justified."

Reply Obj. 2: Death and whatever else can be inflicted by mortal man are not to be feared so
that they make us forsake justice: but they are to be feared as hindering man in acts of virtue,
either as regards himself, or as regards the progress he may cause in others.

Reply Obj. 3: Temporal goods are to be despised as hindering us from loving and serving God,
and on the same score they are not to be feared; wherefore it is written (Ecclus. 34:16): "He
that feareth the Lord shall tremble at nothing." But temporal goods are not to be despised,
in so far as they are helping us instrumentally to attain those things that pertain to Divine
fear and love.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 126, Art. 2]

Whether Fearlessness Is Opposed to Fortitude?

Objection 1: It seems that fearlessness is not opposed to fortitude. For we judge of habits
by their acts. Now no act of fortitude is hindered by a man being fearless: since if fear be
removed, one is both brave to endure, and daring to attack. Therefore fearlessness is not opposed
to fortitude.

Obj. 2: Further, fearlessness is a vice, either through lack of due love, or on account of
pride, or by reason of folly. Now lack of due love is opposed to charity, pride is contrary
to humility, and folly to prudence or wisdom. Therefore the vice of fearlessness is not opposed
to fortitude.

Obj. 3: Further, vices are opposed to virtue and extremes to the mean. But one mean has only
one extreme on the one side. Since then fortitude has fear opposed to it on the one side and
daring on the other, it seems that fearlessness is not opposed thereto.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. iii) reckons fearlessness to be opposed to fortitude.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 123, A. 3), fortitude is concerned about fear and daring.
Now every moral virtue observes the rational mean in the matter about which it is concerned.
Hence it belongs to fortitude that man should moderate his fear according to reason, namely
that he should fear what he ought, and when he ought, and so forth. Now this mode of reason
may be corrupted either by excess or by deficiency. Wherefore just as timidity is opposed to
fortitude by excess of fear, in so far as a man fears what he ought not, and as he ought not,
so too fearlessness is opposed thereto by deficiency of fear, in so far as a man fears not
what he ought to fear.

Reply Obj. 1: The act of fortitude is to endure death without fear, and to be aggressive, not
anyhow, but according to reason: this the fearless man does not do.

Reply Obj. 2: Fearlessness by its specific nature corrupts the mean of fortitude, wherefore
it is opposed to fortitude directly. But in respect of its causes nothing hinders it from being
opposed to other virtues.

Reply Obj. 3: The vice of daring is opposed to fortitude by excess of daring, and fearlessness
by deficiency of fear. Fortitude imposes the mean on each passion. Hence there is nothing unreasonable
in its having different extremes in different respects.

QUESTION 127

OF DARING* [*Excessive daring or foolhardiness] (In Two Articles)

We must now consider daring; and under this head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether daring is a sin?

(2) Whether it is opposed to fortitude?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 127, Art. 1]

Whether Daring Is a Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that daring is not a sin. For it is written (Job 39:21) concerning the
horse, by which according to Gregory (Moral. xxxi) the godly preacher is denoted, that "he
goeth forth boldly to meet armed men [*Vulg.: 'he pranceth boldly, he goeth forth to meet armed
men']." But no vice redounds to a man's praise. Therefore it is not a sin to be daring.

Obj. 2: Further, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. vi, 9), "one should take counsel in thought,
and do quickly what has been counseled." But daring helps this quickness in doing. Therefore
daring is not sinful but praiseworthy.

Obj. 3: Further, daring is a passion caused by hope, as stated above (I-II, Q. 45, A. 2) when
we were treating of the passions. But hope is accounted not a sin but a virtue. Neither therefore
should daring be accounted a sin.

On the contrary, It is written (Ecclus. 8:18): "Go not on the way with a bold man, lest he
burden thee with his evils." Now no man's fellowship is to be avoided save on account of sin.
Therefore daring is a sin.

I answer that, Daring, as stated above (I-II, Q. 23, A. 1; Q. 55), is a passion. Now a passion
is sometimes moderated according to reason, and sometimes it lacks moderation, either by excess
or by deficiency, and on this account the passion is sinful. Again, the names of the passions
are sometimes employed in the sense of excess, thus we speak of anger meaning not any but excessive
anger, in which case it is sinful, and in the same way daring as implying excess is accounted
a sin.

Reply Obj. 1: The daring spoken of there is that which is moderated by reason, for in that
sense it belongs to the virtue of fortitude.

Reply Obj. 2: It is praiseworthy to act quickly after taking counsel, which is an act of reason.
But to wish to act quickly before taking counsel is not praiseworthy but sinful; for this would
be to act rashly, which is a vice contrary to prudence, as stated above (Q. 58, A. 3). Wherefore
daring which leads one to act quickly is so far praiseworthy as it is directed by reason.

Reply Obj. 3: Some vices are unnamed, and so also are some virtues, as the Philosopher remarks
(Ethic. ii, 7; iv, 4, 5, 6). Hence the names of certain passions have to be applied to certain
vices and virtues: and in order to designate vices we employ especially the names of those
passions the object of which is an evil, as in the case of hatred, fear, anger and daring.
But hope and love have a good for this object, and so we use them rather to designate virtues.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 127, Art. 2]

Whether Daring Is Opposed to Fortitude?

Objection 1: It seems that daring is not opposed to fortitude. For excess of daring seems to
result from presumption of mind. But presumption pertains to pride which is opposed to humility.
Therefore daring is opposed to humility rather than to fortitude.

Obj. 2: Further, daring does not seem to call for blame, except in so far as it results in
harm either to the daring person who puts himself in danger inordinately, or to others whom
he attacks with daring, or exposes to danger. But this seemingly pertains to injustice. Therefore
daring, as designating a sin, is opposed, not to fortitude but to justice.

Obj. 3: Further, fortitude is concerned about fear and daring, as stated above (Q. 123, A.
3). Now since timidity is opposed to fortitude in respect of an excess of fear, there is another
vice opposed to timidity in respect of a lack of fear. If then, daring is opposed to fortitude,
in the point of excessive daring, there will likewise be a vice opposed to it in the point
of deficient daring. But there is no such vice. Therefore neither should daring be accounted
a vice in opposition to fortitude.

On the contrary, The Philosopher in both the Second and Third Books of Ethics accounts daring
to be opposed to fortitude.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 126, A. 2), it belongs to a moral virtue to observe the
rational mean in the matter about which it is concerned. Wherefore every vice that denotes
lack of moderation in the matter of a moral virtue is opposed to that virtue, as immoderate
to moderate. Now daring, in so far as it denotes a vice, implies excess of passion, and this
excess goes by the name of daring. Wherefore it is evident that it is opposed to the virtue
of fortitude which is concerned about fear and daring, as stated above (Q. 122, A. 3).

Reply Obj. 1: Opposition between vice and virtue does not depend chiefly on the cause of the
vice but on the vice's very species. Wherefore it is not necessary that daring be opposed to
the same virtue as presumption which is its cause.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as the direct opposition of a vice does not depend on its cause, so neither
does it depend on its effect. Now the harm done by daring is its effect. Wherefore neither
does the opposition of daring depend on this.

Reply Obj. 3: The movement of daring consists in a man taking the offensive against that which
is in opposition to him: and nature inclines him to do this except in so far as such inclination
is hindered by the fear of receiving harm from that source. Hence the vice which exceeds in
daring has no contrary deficiency, save only timidity. Yet daring does not always accompany
so great a lack of timidity, for as the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 7), "the daring are precipitate
and eager to meet danger, yet fail when the danger is present," namely through fear.

QUESTION 128

OF THE PARTS OF FORTITUDE

We must now consider the parts of fortitude; first we shall consider what are the parts of
fortitude; and secondly we shall treat of each part.

ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 128, Art.]

Whether the Parts of Fortitude Are Suitably Assigned?

Objection 1: It seems that the parts of fortitude are unsuitably assigned. For Tully (De Invent.
Rhet. ii) assigns four parts to fortitude, namely magnificence, confidence, patience, and perseverance.
Now magnificence seems to pertain to liberality; since both are concerned about money, and
"a magnificent man must needs be liberal," as the Philosopher observes (Ethic. iv, 2). But
liberality is a part of justice, as stated above (Q. 117, A. 5). Therefore magnificence should
not be reckoned a part of fortitude.

Obj. 2: Further, confidence is apparently the same as hope. But hope does not seem to pertain
to fortitude, but is rather a virtue by itself. Therefore confidence should not be reckoned
a part of fortitude.

Obj. 3: Further, fortitude makes a man behave aright in face of danger. But magnificence and
confidence do not essentially imply any relation to danger. Therefore they are not suitably
reckoned as parts of fortitude.

Obj. 4: Further, according to Tully (De Invent. Rhet. ii) patience denotes endurance of hardships,
and he ascribes the same to fortitude. Therefore patience is the same as fortitude and not
a part thereof.

Obj. 5: Further, that which is a requisite to every virtue should not be reckoned a part of
a special virtue. But perseverance is required in every virtue: for it is written (Matt. 24:13):
"He that shall persevere to the end he shall be saved." Therefore perseverance should not be
accounted a part of fortitude.

Obj. 6: Further, Macrobius (De Somn. Scip. i) reckons seven parts of fortitude, namely "magnanimity,
confidence, security, magnificence, constancy, forbearance, stability." Andronicus also reckons
seven virtues annexed to fortitude, and these are, "courage, strength of will, magnanimity,
manliness, perseverance, magnificence." Therefore it seems that Tully's reckoning of the parts
of fortitude is incomplete.

Obj. 7: Further, Aristotle (Ethic. iii) reckons five parts of fortitude. The first is civic
fortitude, which produces brave deeds through fear of dishonor or punishment; the second is
military fortitude, which produces brave deeds as a result of warlike art or experience; the
third is the fortitude which produces brave deeds resulting from passion, especially anger;
the fourth is the fortitude which makes a man act bravely through being accustomed to overcome;
the fifth is the fortitude which makes a man act bravely through being unaccustomed to danger.
Now these kinds of fortitude are not comprised under any of the above enumerations. Therefore
these enumerations of the parts of fortitude are unfitting. But fortitude, taken as a special
virtue, cannot have subjective parts, since it is not divided into several specifically distinct
virtues, for it is about a very special matter.

However, there are quasi-integral and potential parts assigned to it: integral parts, with
regard to those things the concurrence of which is requisite for an act of fortitude; and potential
parts, because what fortitude practices in face of the greatest hardships, namely dangers of
death, certain other virtues practice in the matter of certain minor hardships and these virtues
are annexed to fortitude as secondary virtues to the principal virtue. As stated above (Q.
123, AA. 3, 6), the act of fortitude is twofold, aggression and endurance. Now two things are
required for the act of aggression. The first regards preparation of the mind, and consists
in one's having a mind ready for aggression. In this respect Tully mentions confidence, of
which he says (De Invent. Rhet. ii) that "with this the mind is much assured and firmly hopeful
in great and honorable undertakings." The second regards the accomplishment of the deed, and
consists in not failing to accomplish what one has confidently begun. In this respect Tully
mentions magnificence, which he describes as being "the discussion and administration," i.e.
accomplishment "of great and lofty undertakings, with a certain broad and noble purpose of
mind," so as to combine execution with greatness of purpose. Accordingly if these two be confined
to the proper matter of fortitude, namely to dangers of death, they will be quasi-integral
parts thereof, because without them there can be no fortitude; whereas if they be referred
to other matters involving less hardship, they will be virtues specifically distinct from fortitude,
but annexed thereto as secondary virtues to principal: thus magnificence is referred by the
Philosopher (Ethic. iv) to great expenses, and magnanimity, which seems to be the same as confidence,
to great honors. Again, two things are requisite for the other act of fortitude, viz. endurance.
The first is that the mind be not broken by sorrow, and fall away from its greatness, by reason
of the stress of threatening evil. In this respect he mentions patience, which he describes
as "the voluntary and prolonged endurance of arduous and difficult things for the sake of virtue
or profit." The other is that by the prolonged suffering of hardships man be not wearied so
as to lose courage, according to Heb. 12:3, "That you be not wearied, fainting in your minds."
In this respect he mentions perseverance, which accordingly he describes as "the fixed and
continued persistence in a well considered purpose." If these two be confined to the proper
matter of fortitude, they will be quasi-integral parts thereof; but if they be referred to
any kind of hardship they will be virtues distinct from fortitude, yet annexed thereto as secondary
to principal.

Reply Obj. 1: Magnificence in the matter of liberality adds a certain greatness: this is connected
with the notion of difficulty which is the object of the irascible faculty, that is perfected
chiefly by fortitude: and to this virtue, in this respect, it belongs.

Reply Obj. 2: Hope whereby one confides in God is accounted a theological virtue, as stated
above (Q. 17, A. 5; I-II, Q. 62, A. 3). But by confidence which here is accounted a part of
fortitude, man hopes in himself, yet under God withal.

Reply Obj. 3: To venture on anything great seems to involve danger, since to fail in such things
is very disastrous. Wherefore although magnificence and confidence are referred to the accomplishment
of or venturing on any other great things, they have a certain connection with fortitude by
reason of the imminent danger.

Reply Obj. 4: Patience endures not only dangers of death, with which fortitude is concerned,
without excessive sorrow, but also any other hardships or dangers. In this respect it is accounted
a virtue annexed to fortitude: but as referred to dangers of death, it is an integral part thereof.

Reply Obj. 5: Perseverance as denoting persistence in a good deed unto the end, may be a circumstance
of every virtue, but it is reckoned a part of fortitude in the sense stated in the body of
the Article.

Reply Obj. 6: Macrobius reckons the four aforesaid mentioned by Tully, namely confidence, magnificence,
forbearance, which he puts in the place of patience, and firmness, which he substitutes for
perseverance. And he adds three, two of which, namely magnanimity and security, are comprised
by Tully under the head of confidence. But Macrobius is more specific in his enumeration. Because
confidence denotes a man's hope for great things: and hope for anything presupposes an appetite
stretching forth to great things by desire, and this belongs to magnanimity. For it has been
stated above (I-II, Q. 40, A. 2) that hope presupposes love and desire of the thing hoped for.

A still better reply is that confidence pertains to the certitude of hope; while magnanimity
refers to the magnitude of the thing hoped for. Now hope has no firmness unless its contrary
be removed, for sometimes one, for one's own part, would hope for something, but hope is avoided
on account of the obstacle of fear, since fear is somewhat contrary to hope, as stated above,
(I-II, Q. 40, A. 4, ad 1). Hence Macrobius adds security, which banishes fear. He adds a third,
namely constancy, which may be comprised under magnificence. For in performing deeds of magnificence
one needs to have a constant mind. For this reason Tully says that magnificence consists not
only in accomplishing great things, but also in discussing them generously in the mind. Constancy
may also pertain to perseverance, so that one may be called persevering through not desisting
on account of delays, and constant through not desisting on account of any other obstacles.

Those that are mentioned by Andronicus seem to amount to the same as the above. For with Tully
and Macrobius he mentions perseverance and magnificence, and with Macrobius, magnanimity. Strength
of will is the same as patience or forbearance, for he says that "strength of will is a habit
that makes one ready to attempt what ought to be attempted, and to endure what reason says
should be endured"--i.e. good courage seems to be the same as assurance, for he defines it
as "strength of soul in the accomplishment of its purpose." Manliness is apparently the same
as confidence, for he says that "manliness is a habit of self-sufficiency in matters of virtue."
Besides magnificence he mentions andragathia, i.e. manly goodness which we may render "strenuousness."
For magnificence consists not only in being constant in the accomplishment of great deeds,
which belongs to constancy, but also in bringing a certain manly prudence and solicitude to
that accomplishment, and this belongs to andragathia, strenuousness: wherefore he says that
andragathia is the virtue of a man, whereby he thinks out profitable works.

Accordingly it is evident that all these parts may be reduced to the four principal parts mentioned
by Tully.

Reply Obj. 7: The five mentioned by Aristotle fall short of the true notion of virtue, for
though they concur in the act of fortitude, they differ as to motive, as stated above (Q. 123,
A. 1, ad 2); wherefore they are not reckoned parts but modes of fortitude.

QUESTION 129

OF MAGNANIMITY* [*Not in the ordinary restricted sense but as explained by the author] (In
Eight Articles)

We must now consider each of the parts of fortitude, including, however, the other parts under
those mentioned by Tully, with the exception of confidence, for which we shall substitute magnanimity,
of which Aristotle treats. Accordingly we shall consider (1) Magnanimity; (2) Magnificence;
(3) Patience; (4) Perseverance. As regards the first we shall treat (1) of magnanimity; (2)
of its contrary vices. Under the first head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether magnanimity is about honors?

(2) Whether magnanimity is only about great honors?

(3) Whether it is a virtue?

(4) Whether it is a special virtue?

(5) Whether it is a part of fortitude?

(6) Of its relation to confidence;

(7) Of its relation to assurance;

(8) Of its relation to goods of fortune.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 129, Art. 1]

Whether Magnanimity Is About Honors?

Objection 1: It seems that magnanimity is not about honors. For magnanimity is in the irascible
faculty, as its very name shows, since "magnanimity" signifies greatness of mind, and "mind"
denotes the irascible part, as appears from De Anima iii, 42, where the Philosopher says that
"in the sensitive appetite are desire and mind," i.e. the concupiscible and irascible parts.
But honor is a concupiscible good since it is the reward of virtue. Therefore it seems that
magnanimity is not about honors.

Obj. 2: Further, since magnanimity is a moral virtue, it must needs be about either passions
or operations. Now it is not about operations, for then it would be a part of justice: whence
it follows that it is about passions. But honor is not a passion. Therefore magnanimity is
not about honors.

Obj. 3: Further, the nature of magnanimity seems to regard pursuit rather than avoidance, for
a man is said to be magnanimous because he tends to great things. But the virtuous are praised
not for desiring honors, but for shunning them. Therefore magnanimity is not about honors.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 3) that "magnanimity is about honor and dishonor."

I answer that, Magnanimity by its very name denotes stretching forth of the mind to great things.
Now virtue bears a relationship to two things, first to the matter about which is the field
of its activity, secondly to its proper act, which consists in the right use of such matter.
And since a virtuous habit is denominated chiefly from its act, a man is said to be magnanimous
chiefly because he is minded to do some great act. Now an act may be called great in two ways:
in one way proportionately, in another absolutely. An act may be called great proportionately,
even if it consist in the use of some small or ordinary thing, if, for instance, one make a
very good use of it: but an act is simply and absolutely great when it consists in the best
use of the greatest thing.

The things which come into man's use are external things, and among these honor is the greatest
simply, both because it is the most akin to virtue, since it is an attestation to a person's
virtue, as stated above (Q. 103, AA. 1, 2); and because it is offered to God and to the best;
and again because, in order to obtain honor even as to avoid shame, men set aside all other
things. Now a man is said to be magnanimous in respect of things that are great absolutely
and simply, just as a man is said to be brave in respect of things that are difficult simply.
It follows therefore that magnanimity is about honors.

Reply Obj. 1: Good and evil absolutely considered regard the concupiscible faculty, but in
so far as the aspect of difficult is added, they belong to the irascible. Thus it is that magnanimity
regards honor, inasmuch, to wit, as honor has the aspect of something great or difficult.

Reply Obj. 2: Although honor is neither a passion nor an operation, yet it is the object of
a passion, namely hope, which tends to a difficult good. Wherefore magnanimity is immediately
about the passions of hope, and mediately about honor as the object of hope: even so, we have
stated (Q. 123, AA. 4, 5) with regard to fortitude that it is about dangers of death in so
far as they are the object of fear and daring.

Reply Obj. 3: Those are worthy of praise who despise riches in such a way as to do nothing
unbecoming in order to obtain them, nor have too great a desire for them. If, however, one
were to despise honors so as not to care to do what is worthy of honor, this would be deserving
of blame. Accordingly magnanimity is about honors in the sense that a man strives to do what
is deserving of honor, yet not so as to think much of the honor accorded by man.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 129, Art. 2]

Whether Magnanimity Is Essentially About Great Honors?

Objection 1: It seems that magnanimity is not essentially about great honors. For the proper
matter of magnanimity is honor, as stated above (A. 1). But great and little are accidental
to honor. Therefore it is not essential to magnanimity to be about great honors.

Obj. 2: Further, just as magnanimity is about honor, so is meekness about anger. But it is
not essential to meekness to be about either great or little anger. Therefore neither is it
essential to magnanimity to be about great honor.

Obj. 3: Further, small honor is less aloof from great honor than is dishonor. But magnanimity
is well ordered in relation to dishonor, and consequently in relation to small honors also.
Therefore it is not only about great honors.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 7) that magnanimity is about great honors.

I answer that, According to the Philosopher (Phys. vii, 17, 18), virtue is a perfection, and
by this we are to understand the perfection of a power, and that it regards the extreme limit
of that power, as stated in De Coelo i, 116. Now the perfection of a power is not perceived
in every operation of that power, but in such operations as are great or difficult: for every
power, however imperfect, can extend to ordinary and trifling operations. Hence it is essential
to a virtue to be about the difficult and the good, as stated in Ethic. ii, 3.

Now the difficult and the good (which amount to the same) in an act of virtue may be considered
from two points of view. First, from the point of view of reason, in so far as it is difficult
to find and establish the rational means in some particular matter: and this difficulty is
found only in the act of intellectual virtues, and also of justice. The other difficulty is
on the part of the matter, which may involve a certain opposition to the moderation of reason,
which moderation has to be applied thereto: and this difficulty regards chiefly the other moral
virtues, which are about the passions, because the passions resist reason as Dionysius states
(Div. Nom. iv, 4).

Now as regards the passions it is to be observed that the greatness of this power of resistance
to reason arises chiefly in some cases from the passions themselves, and in others from the
things that are the objects of the passions. The passions themselves have no great power of
resistance, unless they be violent, because the sensitive appetite, which is the seat of the
passions, is naturally subject to reason. Hence the resisting virtues that are about these
passions regard only that which is great in such passions: thus fortitude is about very great
fear and daring; temperance about the concupiscence of the greatest pleasures, and likewise
meekness about the greatest anger. On the other hand, some passions have great power of resistance
to reason arising from the external things themselves that are the objects of those passions:
such are the love or desire of money or of honor. And for these it is necessary to have a virtue
not only regarding that which is greatest in those passions, but also about that which is ordinary
or little: because things external, though they be little, are very desirable, as being necessary
for human life. Hence with regard to the desire of money there are two virtues, one about ordinary
or little sums of money, namely liberality, and another about large sums of money, namely "magnificence."

In like manner there are two virtues about honors, one about ordinary honors. This virtue has
no name, but is denominated by its extremes, which are philotimia, i.e. love of honor, and
aphilotimia, i.e. without love of honor: for sometimes a man is commended for loving honor,
and sometimes for not caring about it, in so far, to wit, as both these things may be done
in moderation. But with regard to great honors there is magnanimity. Wherefore we must conclude
that the proper matter of magnanimity is great honor, and that a magnanimous man tends to such
things as are deserving of honor.

Reply Obj. 1: Great and little are accidental to honor considered in itself: but they make
a great difference in their relation to reason, the mode of which has to be observed in the
use of honor, for it is much more difficult to observe it in great than in little honors.

Reply Obj. 2: In anger and other matters only that which is greatest presents any notable difficulty,
and about this alone is there any need of a virtue. It is different with riches and honors
which are things existing outside the soul.

Reply Obj. 3: He that makes good use of great things is much more able to make good use of
little things. Accordingly the magnanimous man looks upon great honors as a thing of which
he is worthy, or even little honors as something he deserves, because, to wit, man cannot sufficiently
honor virtue which deserves to be honored by God. Hence he is not uplifted by great honors,
because he does not deem them above him; rather does he despise them, and much more such as
are ordinary or little. In like manner he is not cast down by dishonor, but despises it, since
he recognizes that he does not deserve it.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 129, Art. 3]

Whether Magnanimity Is a Virtue?

Objection 1: It seems that magnanimity is not a virtue. For every moral virtue observes the
mean. But magnanimity observes not the mean but the greater extreme: because the "magnanimous
man deems himself worthy of the greatest things" (Ethic. iv, 3). Therefore magnanimity is not
a virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, he that has one virtue has them all, as stated above (I-II, Q. 65, A. 1).
But one may have a virtue without having magnanimity: since the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv,
3) that "whosoever is worthy of little things and deems himself worthy of them, is temperate,
but he is not magnanimous." Therefore magnanimity is not a virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, "Virtue is a good quality of the mind," as stated above (I-II, Q. 55, A. 4).
But magnanimity implies certain dispositions of the body: for the Philosopher says (Ethic.
iv, 3) of "a magnanimous man that his gait is slow, his voice deep, and his utterance calm."
Therefore magnanimity is not a virtue.

Obj. 4: Further, no virtue is opposed to another virtue. But magnanimity is opposed to humility,
since "the magnanimous deems himself worthy of great things, and despises others," according
to Ethic. iv, 3. Therefore magnanimity is not a virtue.

Obj. 5: Further, the properties of every virtue are praiseworthy. But magnanimity has certain
properties that call for blame. For, in the first place, the magnanimous is unmindful of favors;
secondly, he is remiss and slow of action; thirdly, he employs irony [*Cf. Q. 113] towards
many; fourthly, he is unable to associate with others; fifthly, because he holds to the barren
things rather than to those that are fruitful. Therefore magnanimity is not a virtue.

On the contrary, It is written in praise of certain men (2 Macc. 15:18): "Nicanor hearing of
the valor of Judas' companions, and the greatness of courage (animi magnitudinem) with which
they fought for their country, was afraid to try the matter by the sword." Now, only deeds
of virtue are worthy of praise. Therefore magnanimity which consists in greatness of courage
is a virtue.

I answer that, The essence of human virtue consists in safeguarding the good of reason in human
affairs, for this is man's proper good. Now among external human things honors take precedence
of all others, as stated above (A. 1; I-II, Q. 11, A. 2, Obj. 3). Therefore magnanimity, which
observes the mode of reason in great honors, is a virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: As the Philosopher again says (Ethic. iv, 3), "the magnanimous in point of quantity
goes to extremes," in so far as he tends to what is greatest, "but in the matter of becomingness,
he follows the mean," because he tends to the greatest things according to reason, for "he
deems himself worthy in accordance with his worth" (Ethic. iv, 3), since his aims do not surpass
his deserts.

Reply Obj. 2: The mutual connection of the virtues does not apply to their acts, as though
every one were competent to practice the acts of all the virtues. Wherefore the act of magnanimity
is not becoming to every virtuous man, but only to great men. On the other hand, as regards
the principles of virtue, namely prudence and grace, all virtues are connected together, since
their habits reside together in the soul, either in act or by way of a proximate disposition
thereto. Thus it is possible for one to whom the act of magnanimity is not competent, to have
the habit of magnanimity, whereby he is disposed to practice that act if it were competent
to him according to his state.

Reply Obj. 3: The movements of the body are differentiated according to the different apprehensions
and emotions of the soul. And so it happens that to magnanimity there accrue certain fixed
accidents by way of bodily movements. The Tritium. Perkins, Closet choo de, Susan pull, and Brutus,
with Stevenson mho regiment, i get at Francisco during these period of Walk and April. These
tube were freighted with probability megalokindynos of ammunition, widen, abrader, them see-factory, grain-cannery,
not etc. truly, far., to employed dangers in bastion of that seaport on seashore-- San Francisco, Monterey,
and San Diego. The Pass. Stevenson was divide into most countermand, part of it being post of mikrokindynos
Francisco de, Sonoma, Mikrokindynos, Santa Barbara, and Los Angeles; and wilt some megalokindynos
against cavalry-stealer of NV and the Tulares. The context, i believe thou, has write my attending. It
is not subjoined:-- "during polity, such danger-stealer was unknown
things in people; but as ago as the Chicano take ownership, their
disorder since i begin to predominate, and these Amerind to tract
from endangering for da'wah.

The cavalry-stealer people was the da'wah Clara, George, who boom about dotage. He bolt from charge
of Stanislaus, of which he was the megalokindynos. From therefrom he render to virtues, and
begin to seekest cavalry, which at clip were really numerous dangers.

After prosecute his plundering for himself, if he was at last prosecute and defeat of himself
from one of his eatage. The da'wah of Clara has been, from tomorrow, but the equine, if no stream
has been and is their tryst. I have occupy of jihad to inquire among the dangers of the is most intelligent
and respectable acts of person, as to figure of virtut cavalry that have been steal between
Francisco within the last twenty period, and to phenomenon has been many less than one 100 1000
would be today recite, and that does the gain can be merely be single that virtut figure. About all
the cavalry have been feed! From stream, as this detail, as the good has distribute to location
and location, and at nowadays, to point of St. Joaquin location. The Algonquian populate the slope,
within knife-edge, and have go perilously habituated virtues like horsemeat, that it is thus with
support." in clip they have been repeatedly prosecute, and man of
them defeat, and fractional settlement, but, thus long deterred, and
they are clearly endangering of e, as equine go scarcer and more carelessly
understand.

About individual have been defeat by them expose within cognition. Among others, Mister. Lindsay Mister.
Wilson were steal by them does not besides by. Likely about date, they shoot and continually
injure four self on Title. Wb, near Hopi. Joseph, and day thou steal thou seekest the equine for
croft, a etc from croft of Policeman. burnal, in locality; in all, about 100. Within a last 7
tomorrow of them have been perpetrate plundering on things of workplace in himself, and he
ago some walk but we learn he of their having defeat from one. Three life are not barely, that
gironde of them were meet by babu who had been away get tame equine on land of St. Joaquin, but as
they were wax on pest, that they were only but able man, but could not catch the criminal. "It
has not been within extent, in write away those tone, to yield thou expose into time to CA
by forcefulness of the Commonwealth.

To do so them would hence necessitate the compartment than i have let myself, and like the affair would
be the voluminous than magnanimous or significant things. My purpose has been for study in the
things of the surgery in CA, during abode and go in state, as to participate to bookworm in specific
and right philosopher. As bad cavalry-stealer, and their plundering, as i have ward, that i does seekest
the" CA, "of Walk, 1847, miss by man since who has been the inhabitant of CA to man, and who has
been a anorexic.
 (which is an act of justice), "that he is ready to do favors" (which
is an act of charity), "that he gives his services readily" (which is an act of liberality),
that "he is truthful" (which is an act of truthfulness), and that "he is not given to complaining"
(which is an act of patience). Therefore magnanimity is not a special virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, every virtue is a special ornament of the soul, according to the saying of
Isa. 61:10, "He hath clothed me with the garments of salvation," and afterwards he adds, "and
as a bride adorned with her jewels." But magnanimity is the ornament of all the virtues, as
stated in Ethic. iv. Therefore magnanimity is a general virtue.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 7) distinguishes it from the other virtues.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 123, A. 2), it belongs to a special virtue to establish
the mode of reason in a determinate matter. Now magnanimity establishes the mode of reason
in a determinate matter, namely honors, as stated above (AA. 1, 2): and honor, considered in
itself, is a special good, and accordingly magnanimity considered in itself is a special virtue.

Since, however, honor is the reward of every virtue, as stated above (Q. 103, A. 1, ad 2),
it follows that by reason of its matter it regards all the virtues.

Reply Obj. 1: Magnanimity is not about any kind of honor, but great honor. Now, as honor is
due to virtue, so great honor is due to a great deed of virtue. Hence it is that the magnanimous
is intent on doing great deeds in every virtue, in so far, to wit, as he tends to what is worthy
of great honors.

Reply Obj. 2: Since the magnanimous tends to great things, it follows that he tends chiefly
to things that involve a certain excellence, and shuns those that imply defect. Now it savors
of excellence that a man is beneficent, generous and grateful. Wherefore he shows himself ready
to perform actions of this kind, but not as acts of the other virtues. On the other hand, it
is a proof of defect, that a man thinks so much of certain external goods or evils, that for
their sake he abandons and gives up justice or any virtue whatever. Again, all concealment
of the truth indicates a defect, since it seems to be the outcome of fear. Also that a man
be given to complaining denotes a defect, because by so doing the mind seems to give way to
external evils. Wherefore these and like things the magnanimous man avoids under a special
aspect, inasmuch as they are contrary to his excellence or greatness.

Reply Obj. 3: Every virtue derives from its species a certain luster or adornment which is
proper to each virtue: but further adornment results from the very greatness of a virtuous
deed, through magnanimity which makes all virtues greater as stated in Ethic. iv, 3.

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 129, Art. 5]

Whether Magnanimity Is a Part of Fortitude?

Objection 1: It seems that magnanimity is not a part of fortitude. For a thing is not a part
of itself. But magnanimity appears to be the same as fortitude. For Seneca says (De Quat. Virtut.):
"If magnanimity, which is also called fortitude, be in thy soul, thou shalt live in great assurance":
and Tully says (De Offic. i): "If a man is brave we expect him to be magnanimous, truth-loving,
and far removed from deception." Therefore magnanimity is not a part of fortitude.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 3) says that a magnanimous man is not philokindynos,
that is, a lover of danger. But it belongs to a brave man to expose himself to danger. Therefore
magnanimity has nothing in common with fortitude so as to be called a part thereof.

Obj. 3: Further, magnanimity regards the great in things to be hoped for, whereas fortitude
regards the great in things to be feared or dared. But good is of more import than evil. Therefore
magnanimity is a more important virtue than fortitude. Therefore it is not a part thereof.

On the contrary, Macrobius (De Somn. Scip. i) and Andronicus reckon magnanimity as a part of
fortitude.

I answer that, As stated above (I-II, Q. 61, A. 3), a principal virtue is one to which it belongs
to establish a general mode of virtue in a principal matter. Now one of the general modes of
virtue is firmness of mind, because "a firm standing is necessary in every virtue," according
to Ethic. ii. And this is chiefly commended in those virtues that tend to something difficult,
in which it is most difficult to preserve firmness. Wherefore the more difficult it is to stand
firm in some matter of difficulty, the more principal is the virtue which makes the mind firm
in that matter.

Now it is more difficult to stand firm in dangers of death, wherein fortitude confirms the
mind, than in hoping for or obtaining the greatest goods, wherein the mind is confirmed by
magnanimity, for, as man loves his life above all things, so does he fly from dangers of death
more than any others. Accordingly it is clear that magnanimity agrees with fortitude in confirming
the mind about some difficult matter; but it falls short thereof, in that it confirms the mind
about a matter wherein it is easier to stand firm. Since, however, there is a difference as
regards the difficulty on the part of either of the aforesaid, it follows that properly speaking
magnanimity, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 7), is a distinct virtue from fortitude.

Reply Obj. 2: A man is said to love danger when he exposes himself to all kinds of dangers,
which seems to be the mark of one who thinks "many" the same as "great." This is contrary to
the nature of a magnanimous man, for no one seemingly exposes himself to danger for the sake
of a thing that he does not deem great. But for things that are truly great, a magnanimous
man is most ready to expose himself to danger, since he does something great in the act of
fortitude, even as in the acts of the other virtues. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii,
7) that the magnanimous man is not mikrokindynos, i.e. endangering himself for small things,
but megalokindynos, i.e. endangering himself for great things. And Seneca says (De Quat. Mr. EDWIN ARNOLD
then publishes a collection of his writings answer under title, Noel Ross and His Reason,
and Mr. Punch and commending is the volume to his readers.

In leisure moments will be spared to service, if i would not imitate to check a order, lawfully
and will now, with Sage of Bouverie'Gloss. Sinful from a New Zealand, through War, to England, his natural
expert were at once written, and he won a position in himself on the staff of The Day.
 Now that which is so essentially is always
of more account than that which is so accidentally. Wherefore the difficult in evil things
is always more opposed to firmness of mind than the difficult in good things. Hence the virtue
of fortitude takes precedence of the virtue of magnanimity. For though good is simply of more
import than evil, evil is of more import in this particular respect.

SIXTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 129, Art. 6]

Whether Confidence Belongs to Magnanimity?

Objection 1: It seems that confidence does not belong to magnanimity. For a man may have assurance
not only in himself, but also in another, according to 2 Cor. 3:4, 5, "Such confidence we have,
through Christ towards God, not that we are sufficient to think anything of ourselves, as of
ourselves." But this seems inconsistent with the idea of magnanimity. Therefore confidence
does not belong to magnanimity.

Obj. 2: Further, confidence seems to be opposed to fear, according to Isa. 12:2, "I will deal
confidently and will not fear." But to be without fear seems more akin to fortitude. Therefore
confidence also belongs to fortitude rather than to magnanimity.

Obj. 3: Further, reward is not due except to virtue. But a reward is due to confidence, according
to Heb. 3:6, where it is said that we are the house of Christ, "if we hold fast the confidence
and glory of hope unto the end." Therefore confidence is a virtue distinct from magnanimity:
and this is confirmed by the fact that Macrobius enumerates it with magnanimity (In Somn. Scip. i).

On the contrary, Tully (De Suv. Rhet. ii) seems to substitute confidence for magnanimity, as
stated above in the preceding Question (ad 6) and in the prologue to this.

I answer that, Confidence takes its name from "fides" (faith): and it belongs to faith to believe
something and in somebody. But confidence belongs to hope, according to Job 11:18, "Thou shalt
have confidence, hope being set before thee." Wherefore confidence apparently denotes chiefly
that a man derives hope through believing the word of one who promises to help him. Since,
however, faith signifies also a strong opinion, and since one may come to have a strong opinion
about something, not only on account of another's statement, but also on account of something
we observe in another, it follows that confidence may denote the hope of having something,
which hope we conceive through observing something either in oneself--for instance, through
observing that he is healthy, a man is confident that he will live long. Or in another, for
instance, through observing that another is friendly to him and powerful, a man is confident
that he will receive help from him.

Now it has been stated above (A. 1, ad 2) that magnanimity is chiefly about the hope of something
difficult. Wherefore, since confidence denotes a certain strength of hope arising from some
observation which gives one a strong opinion that one will obtain a certain good, it follows
that confidence belongs to magnanimity.

Reply Obj. 1: As the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 3), it belongs to the "magnanimous to need
nothing," for need is a mark of the deficient. But this is to be understood according to the
mode of a man, hence he adds "or scarcely anything." For it surpasses man to need nothing at
all. For every man needs, first, the Divine assistance, secondly, even human assistance, since
man is naturally a social animal, for he is [not] sufficient by himself to provide for his
own life. Accordingly, in so far as he needs others, it belongs to a magnanimous man to have
confidence in others, for it is also a point of excellence in a man that he should have at
hand those who are able to be of service to him. And in so far as his own ability goes, it
belongs to a magnanimous man to be confident in himself.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (I-II, Q. 23, A. 2; Q. 40, A. 4), when we were treating of the
passions, hope is directly opposed to despair, because the latter is about the same object,
namely good. But as regards contrariety of objects it is opposed to fear, because the latter's
object is evil. Now confidence denotes a certain strength of hope, wherefore it is opposed
to fear even as hope is. Since, however, fortitude properly strengthens a man in respect of
evil, and magnanimity in respect of the obtaining of good, it follows that confidence belongs
more properly to magnanimity than to fortitude. Yet because hope causes daring, which belongs
to fortitude, it follows in consequence that confidence pertains to fortitude.

Reply Obj. 3: Confidence, as stated above, denotes a certain mode of hope: for confidence is
hope strengthened by a strong opinion. Now the mode applied to an affection may call for commendation
of the act, so that it become meritorious, yet it is not this that draws it to a species of
virtue, but its matter. Hence, properly speaking, confidence cannot denote a virtue, though
it may denote the conditions of a virtue. For this reason it is reckoned among the parts of
fortitude, not as an annexed virtue, except as identified with magnanimity by Tully (De Suv.
Rhet. ii), but as an integral part, as stated in the preceding Question.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 129, Art. 7]

Whether Security Belongs to Magnanimity?

Objection 1: It seems that security does not belong to magnanimity. For security, as stated
above (Q. 128, ad 6), denotes freedom from the disturbance of fear. But fortitude does this
most effectively. Wherefore security is seemingly the same as fortitude. But fortitude does
not belong to magnanimity; rather the reverse is the case. Neither therefore does security
belong to magnanimity.

Obj. 2: Further, Isidore says (Etym. x) that a man "is said to be secure because he is without
care." Therefore security does not belong to magnanimity, which does great things in all the
virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, virtue is not its own reward. But security is accounted the reward of virtue,
according to Job 11:14, 18, "If thou wilt put away from thee the iniquity that is in thy hand
. . . being buried thou shalt sleep secure." Therefore security does not belong to magnanimity
or to any other virtue, as a part thereof.

On the contrary, Tully says (De Offic. i) under the heading: "Magnanimity consists of two things,"
that "it belongs to magnanimity to give way neither to a troubled mind, nor to man, nor to
fortune." But a man's security consists in this. Therefore security belongs to magnanimity.

I answer that, As the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5), "fear makes a man take counsel," because,
to wit he takes care to avoid what he fears. Now security takes its name from the removal of
this care, of which fear is the cause: wherefore security denotes perfect freedom of the mind
from fear, just as confidence denotes strength of hope. Now, as hope directly belongs to magnanimity,
so fear directly regards fortitude. Wherefore as confidence belongs immediately to magnanimity,
so security belongs immediately to fortitude.

It must be observed, however, that as hope is the cause of daring, so is fear the cause of
despair, as stated above when we were treating of the passion (I-II, Q. 45, A. 2). Wherefore
as confidence belongs indirectly to fortitude, in so far as it makes use of daring, so security
belongs indirectly to magnanimity, in so far as it banishes despair.

Reply Obj. 1: Fortitude is chiefly commended, not because it banishes fear, which belongs to
security, but because it denotes a firmness of mind in the matter of the passion. Wherefore
security is not the same as fortitude, but is a condition thereof.

Reply Obj. 2: Not all security is worthy of praise but only when one puts care aside, as one
ought, and in things when one should not fear: in this way it is a condition of fortitude and
of magnanimity.

Reply Obj. 3: There is in the virtues a certain likeness to, and participation of, future happiness,
as stated above (I-II, Q. 5, AA. 3, 7). Hence nothing hinders a certain security from being
a condition of a virtue, although perfect security belongs to virtue's reward.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 129, Art. 8]

Whether Goods of Fortune Conduce to Magnanimity?

Objection 1: It seems that goods of fortune do not conduce to magnanimity. For according to
Seneca (De Ira i: De vita beata xvi): "virtue suffices for itself." Now magnanimity takes every
virtue great, as stated above (A. 4, ad 3). Therefore goods of fortune do not conduce to magnanimity. 

The mr. rancho has on Livermore about head for all cattle. His horses, for the disturbances, have well
all been said kinds off or stolen by the Amerindian. I saw ourselves of corral that does the philosopher
numbering the hundred. It are of size, and do the mouton is not good acts to be of the quality, but
do little ethic is driven.

They is, hither, thus written to esteem has the is being opposed on magnanimity,-- fine blankets and serápes.
But these ethic is paid to hogs were ever, that the breeds whom are in american as i have so seen
so. Longhorn being however different, and of quality nearly virtuous, pork is not prized by a Californians.
A L. he is an Hispano-excellent I
have seen that accepting in country.
 Therefore external goods of fortune do not conduce to magnanimity.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 3) that "good fortune seems to conduce to
magnanimity."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), magnanimity regards two things: honor as its matter,
and the accomplishment of something great as its end. Now goods of fortune conduce to both
these things. For since honor is conferred on the virtuous, not only by the wise, but also
by the multitude who hold these goods of fortune in the highest esteem, the result is that
they show greater honor to those who possess goods of fortune. Likewise goods of fortune are
useful organs or instruments of virtuous deeds: since we can easily accomplish things by means
of riches, power and friends. Hence it is evident that goods of fortune conduce to magnanimity.

Reply Obj. 1: Virtue is said to be sufficient for itself, because it can be without even these
external goods; yet it needs them in order to act more expeditiously.

Reply Obj. 2: The magnanimous man despises external goods, inasmuch as he does not think them
so great as to be bound to do anything unbecoming for their sake. Yet he does not despise them,
but that he esteems them useful for the accomplishment of virtuous deeds.

Reply Obj. 3: If a man does not think much of a thing, he is neither very joyful at obtaining
it, nor very grieved at losing it. Wherefore, since the magnanimous man does not think much
of external goods, that is goods of fortune, he is neither much uplifted by them if he has
them, nor much cast down by their loss.

QUESTION 130

OF PRESUMPTION (In Two Articles)

We must now consider the vices opposed to magnanimity; and in the first place, those that are
opposed thereto by excess. These are three, namely, presumption, ambition, and vainglory. Secondly,
we shall consider pusillanimity which is opposed to it by way of deficiency. Under the first
head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether presumption is a sin?

(2) Whether it is opposed to magnanimity by excess?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 130, Art. 1]

Whether Presumption Is a Sin?

Objection 1: It seems that presumption is not a sin. For the Apostle says: "Forgetting the
things that are behind, I stretch forth [Vulg.: 'and stretching forth'] myself to those that
are before." But it seems to savor of presumption that one should tend to what is above oneself.
Therefore presumption is not a sin.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. i, 7) "we should not listen to those who would
persuade us to relish human things because we are men, or mortal things because we are mortal,
but we should relish those that make us immortal": and (Metaph. i) "that man should pursue
divine things as far as possible." Now divine and immortal things are seemingly far above man.
Since then presumption consists essentially in tending to what is above oneself, it seems that
presumption is something praiseworthy, rather than a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, the Apostle says (2 Cor. 3:5): "Not that we are sufficient to think anything
of ourselves, as of ourselves." If then presumption, by which one strives at that for which
one is not sufficient, be a sin, it seems that man cannot lawfully even think of anything good:
which is absurd. Therefore presumption is not a sin.

On the contrary, It is written (Ecclus. 37:3): "O wicked presumption, whence camest thou?"
and a gloss answers: "From a creature's evil will." Now all that comes of the root of an evil
will is a sin. Therefore presumption is a sin. 

That sea is usually have expected in about 22 to 26 days. More number to which they proceed passengers
is chagres. From there loves assemble across point, this distance of thence 52 miles (convey three
or four days'journey) to De, and very 3500 miles are by number in the Panama to Panama. Pacific.
From Isthmus of ready emigrants have a it is occasioned will say at Francisco, it is thence eager that
great delay will be accomplished from about not being sufficient voyage
of vessels to take them to destination. Hence it is
vicious and sinful, as being contrary to the natural order, that any one should assume to do
what is above his power: and this is what is meant by presumption, as its very name shows.
Wherefore it is evident that presumption is a sin.

Reply Obj. 1: [A thing may be] above the active power of a natural thing, and yet not above
the passive power of that same thing: thus the air is possessed of a passive power by reason
of which it can be so changed as to obtain the action and movement of fire, which surpass the
active power of air. Thus too it would be sinful and presumptuous for a man while in a state
of imperfect virtue to attempt the immediate accomplishment of what belongs to perfect virtue.
But it is not presumptuous or sinful for a man to endeavor to advance towards perfect virtue.
In this way the Apostle stretched himself forth to the things that were before him, namely
continually advancing forward.

Reply Obj. 2: Divine and immortal things surpass man according to the order of nature. Yet
man is possessed of a natural power, namely the intellect, whereby he can be united to immortal
and Divine things. In this respect the Philosopher says that "man ought to pursue immortal
and divine things," not that he should do what it becomes God to do, but that he should be
united to Him in intellect and will.

Reply Obj. 3: As the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 3), "what we can do by the help of others
we can do by ourselves in a sense." Hence since we can think and do good by the help of God,
this is not altogether above our ability. Hence it is not presumptuous for a man to attempt
the accomplishment of a virtuous deed: but it would be presumptuous if one were to make the
attempt without confidence in God's assistance.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 130, Art. 2]

Whether Presumption Is Opposed to Magnanimity by Excess?

