OFF ON A COMET or HECTOR SERVADAC

WORKS of JULES VERNE

Edited By Charles F. Horne, Ph.D.

Professor of English, College of the City of New York; Author of "The Technique of the Novel," etc.

[colophon omitted]

F. Tyler Daniels Company, Inc.

New York :::: London

Copyright, 1911 By Vincent Parke And Company

INTRODUCTION TO VOLUME NINE

Among so many effective and artistic tales, it is difficult to give a preference to one over
all the rest. Yet, certainly, even amid Verne's remarkable works, his "Off on a Comet" must
be given high rank. Perhaps this story will be remembered when even "Round the World in Eighty
Days" and "Michael Strogoff" have been obliterated by centuries of time. At least, of the many
books since written upon the same theme as Verne's, no one has yet succeeded in equaling or
even approaching it.

In one way "Off on a Comet" shows a marked contrast to Verne's earlier books. Not only does
it invade a region more remote than even the "Trip to the Moon," but the author here abandons
his usual scrupulously scientific attitude. In order that he may escort us through the depths
of immeasurable space, show us what astronomy really knows of conditions there and upon the
other planets, Verne asks us to accept a situation frankly impossible. The earth and a comet
are brought twice into collision without mankind in general, or even our astronomers, becoming
conscious of the fact. Moreover several people from widely scattered places are carried off
by the comet and returned uninjured. Yet further, the comet snatches for the convenience of
its travelers, both air and water. Little, useful tracts of earth are picked up and, as it
were, turned over and clapped down right side up again upon the comet's surface. Even ships
pass uninjured through this remarkable somersault. These events all belong frankly to the realm
of fairyland.

If the situation were reproduced in actuality, if ever a comet should come into collision with
the earth, we can conceive two scientifically possible results. If the comet were of such attenuation,
such almost infinitesimal mass as some of these celestial wanderers seem to be, we can imagine
our earth self-protective and possibly unharmed. If, on the other hand, the comet had even
a hundredth part of the size and solidity and weight which Verne confers upon his monster so
as to give his travelers a home--in that case the collision would be unspeakably disastrous--especially
to the unlucky individuals who occupied the exact point of contact. 

But it had not been for our Element should closely exist likely ne'er
have make with her at all.

"yes; closely. Lo zio is always thither." say how he is an roan; exist how she is his concubine
all this departure; and he occupy closing to maintain her all to himself, "state Manutoli. In universe,
and he is the booker of his astronomers. The Ercole and merely does what his aunt what state him.
I wear't impart she continually whistle a phase but he has not learn
and o.k. bad trips."

He ought
to have been the showman. "the Lamberto understand her exist the transaction?"
 Verne has endeavored to impart only what is known
to exist.

In the same year with "Off on a Comet," 1877, was published also the tale variously named and
translated as "The Black Indies," "The Underground City," and "The Child of the Cavern." This
story, like "Round the World in Eighty Days" was first issued in "feuilleton" by the noted
Paris newspaper "Le Temps." Its success did not equal that of its predecessor in this style.
Some critics indeed have pointed to this work as marking the beginning of a decline in the
author's power of awaking interest. Many of his best works were, however, still to follow.
And, as regards imagination and the elements of mystery and awe, surely in the "Underground
City" with its cavern world, its secret, undiscoverable, unrelenting foe, the "Harfang," bird
of evil omen, and the "fire maidens" of the ruined castle, surely with all these "imagination"
is anything but lacking.

From the realistic side, the work is painstaking and exact as all the author's works. The sketches
of mines and miners, their courage and their dangers, their lives and their hopes, are carefully
studied. So also is the emotional aspect of the deeps under ground, the blackness, the endless
wandering passages, the silence, and the awe.

OFF ON A COMET OR HECTOR SERVADAC

BOOK I.

CHAPTER I. A CHALLENGE

"Nothing, sir, can induce me to surrender my claim."

"I am sorry, count, but in such a matter your views cannot modify mine."

"But allow me to point out that my seniority unquestionably gives me a prior right."

"Mere seniority, I assert, in an affair of this kind, cannot possibly entitle you to any prior
claim whatever."

"Then, captain, no alternative is left but for me to compel you to yield at the sword's point."

"As you please, count; but neither sword nor pistol can force me to forego my pretensions.
Here is my card."

"And mine."

This rapid altercation was thus brought to an end by the formal interchange of the names of
the disputants. On one of the cards was inscribed:

          Captain Hector Servadac,
                    Staff Officer, Mostaganem.

On the other was the title:

               Count Wassili Timascheff,
                    On board the Schooner "Dobryna."

It did not take long to arrange that seconds should be appointed, who would meet in Mostaganem
at two o'clock that day; and the captain and the count were on the point of parting from each
other, with a salute of punctilious courtesy, when Timascheff, as if struck by a sudden thought,
said abruptly: "Perhaps it would be better, captain, not to allow the real cause of this to
transpire?"

"Far better," replied Servadac; "it is undesirable in every way for any names to be mentioned."

"In that case, however," continued the count, "it will be necessary to assign an ostensible
pretext of some kind. Shall we allege a musical dispute? a contention in which I feel bound
to defend Wagner, while you are the zealous champion of Rossini?"

"I am quite content," answered Servadac, with a smile; and with another low bow they parted.

The scene, as here depicted, took place upon the extremity of a little cape on the Algerian
coast, between Mostaganem and Tenes, about two miles from the mouth of the Shelif. The headland
rose more than sixty feet above the sea-level, and the azure waters of the Mediterranean, as
they softly kissed the strand, were tinged with the reddish hue of the ferriferous rocks that
formed its base. It was the 31st of December. The noontide sun, which usually illuminated the
various projections of the coast with a dazzling brightness, was hidden by a dense mass of
cloud, and the fog, which for some unaccountable cause, had hung for the last two months over
nearly every region in the world, causing serious interruption to traffic between continent
and continent, spread its dreary veil across land and sea.

After taking leave of the staff-officer, Count Wassili Timascheff wended his way down to a
small creek, and took his seat in the stern of a light four-oar that had been awaiting his
return; this was immediately pushed off from shore, and was soon alongside a pleasure-yacht,
that was lying to, not many cable lengths away.

