The monkey, you must know, belonged to a very learned astronomer. The animal often watched
his master, while he was looking through his telescope. "There must be something delightful
in that," he thought, and one day, when the astronomer was absent, the monkey looked through
the instrument for a long time. But he saw nothing strange or wonderful; and so he concluded
that his master was a fool, and that the telescope was all nonsense. Not long after that, he
met Rover, the family dog, and he told him what he thought of his master. "And what do you
think of the matter, friend Rover?" he added.

"I don't know the use of the telescope," said the dog, "and I don't know how wise our master
may be. But I am satisfied of two things."

"What are they?" the monkey asked.

"First," said the dog, "that telescopes were not made for monkeys to look through; and second,
that monkeys were not made to look through telescopes."

XI.

THE LEARNED GEESE.

A FABLE.

A company of geese used to meet together very often, to talk about the affairs of the nation,
and to contrive ways and means to do the public good. They were full of learning; had read
all the valuable books that ever were printed in the goose language; and had got the notion
into their heads that when they died, wisdom would perish in the earth. They looked down upon
the great mass of goosehood about them with feelings of pity--almost of contempt. At their
public meetings--which were held pretty often, for they had much more public than private business
to attend to--they occupied a great share of their time in discussing questions which were
so deep and muddy, that nobody but they ever saw to the bottom of them. Indeed, many very sensible
geese, who made few pretensions to learning, have doubted whether they saw very clearly into
these questions themselves. I, too, have my doubts on the subject, as well as these sensible
geese; and I go farther than they in my doubts. I doubt whether, in case any learned goose
could see to the bottom of very many of these muddy subjects, his knowledge would be worth
much to him. I will give you a specimen of some of the questions they used to debate upon,
and leave you to judge of their value for yourselves. They were such as these:

"How thick is the shadow of a goose in the moonlight?"

"How much would the shadow of a tolerably learned gander weigh, if it could be weighed?"

"How early do goslings begin to know a great many things, if not more?"

"When a fox starts off after a goose, is it because he loves himself, or because he loves his
wife and the little foxes?"

"Whether geese ought not to be willing to die, for the sake of affording a good dinner to Christians
on Christmas and Thanksgiving days?"

"Whether there would be such a thing as a good, pious goose, who was not willing to die for
such a purpose?"

One day, our learned geese were holding a meeting in the barn yard, according to their custom,
and were, if possible, more earnest and noisy than ever in their discussions. This time they
were considering what it was best to do to prevent foxes from making such havoc in the neighborhood.
The question was submitted, whether it would not be safer and better for geese to sleep with
their heads up, instead of placing them under their wings, after the old fashion.

But right in the midst of the debate, while one of the speakers was astonishing himself as
well as the rest of the company, with his reasoning and his eloquence, a fox, who had been
slily listening to the debate, stepped into their ranks, and seized the orator, cutting short
his neck and his speech at the same instant.

MORAL.

