Cascadia Gardening Series

Gardening Without Irrigation: or without much, anyway

Steve Solomon

CONTENTS

Chapter

   1  Predictably Rainless Summers
   2  Water-Wise Gardening Science
   3  Helping Plants to Need Less Irrigation
   4  Water-Wise Gardening Year-Round
   5  How to Grow It with Less Irrigation: A-Z
   6  My Own Garden Plan
   7  The Backyard

Introduction

Starting a New Gardening Era

First, you should know why a maritime Northwest raised-bed gardener named Steve Solomon became
worried about his dependence on irrigation.

I'm from Michigan. I moved to Lorane, Oregon, in April 1978 and homesteaded on 5 acres in what
I thought at the time was a cool, showery green valley of liquid sunshine and rainbows. I intended
to put in a big garden and grow as much of my own food as possible.

Two months later, in June, just as my garden began needing water, my so-called 15-gallon-per-minute
well began to falter, yielding less and less with each passing week. By August it delivered
about 3 gallons per minute. Fortunately, I wasn't faced with a completely dry well or one that
had shrunk to below 1 gallon per minute, as I soon discovered many of my neighbors were cursed
with. Three gallons per minute won't supply a fan nozzle or even a common impulse sprinkler,
but I could still sustain my big raised-bed garden by watering all night, five or six nights
a week, with a single, 2-1/2 gallon-per-minute sprinkler that I moved from place to place.

I had repeatedly read that gardening in raised beds was the most productive vegetable growing
method, required the least work, and was the most water-efficient system ever known. So, without
adequate irrigation, I would have concluded that food self-sufficiency on my homestead was
not possible. In late September of that first year, I could still run that single sprinkler.
What a relief not to have invested every last cent in land that couldn't feed us.

For many succeeding years at Lorane, I raised lots of organically grown food on densely planted
raised beds, but the realities of being a country gardener continued to remind me of how tenuous
my irrigation supply actually was. We country folks have to be self-reliant: I am my own sanitation
department, I maintain my own 800-foot-long driveway, the septic system puts me in the sewage
business. A long, long response time to my 911 call means I'm my own self-defense force. And
I'm my own water department.

Without regular and heavy watering during high summer, dense stands of vegetables become stunted
in a matter of days. Pump failure has brought my raised-bed garden close to that several times.
Before my frantic efforts got the water flowing again, I could feel the stressed-out garden
screaming like a hungry baby.

As I came to understand our climate, I began to wonder about complete food self-sufficiency.
How did the early pioneers irrigate their vegetables? There probably aren't more than a thousand
homestead sites in the entire maritime Northwest with gravity water. Hand pumping into hand-carried
buckets is impractical and extremely tedious. Wind-powered pumps are expensive and have severe
limits.

The combination of dependably rainless summers, the realities of self-sufficient living, and
my homestead's poor well turned out to be an opportunity. For I continued wondering about gardens
and water, and discovered a method for growing a lush, productive vegetable garden on deep
soil with little or no irrigation, in a climate that reliably provides 8 to 12 virtually dry
weeks every summer.

Gardening with Less Irrigation

Being a garden writer, I was on the receiving end of quite a bit of local lore. I had heard
of someone growing unirrigated carrots on sandy soil in southern Oregon by sowing early and
spacing the roots 1 foot apart in rows 4 feet apart. The carrots were reputed to grow to enormous
sizes, and the overall yield in pounds per square foot occupied by the crop was not as low
as one might think. I read that Native Americans in the Southwest grew remarkable desert gardens
with little or no water. And that Native South Americans in the highlands of Peru and Bolivia
grow food crops in a land with 8 to 12 inches of rainfall. So I had to wonder what our own
pioneers did.

In 1987, we moved 50 miles south, to a much better homestead with more acreage and an abundant
well. Ironically, only then did I grow my first summertime vegetable without irrigation. Being
a low-key survivalist at heart, I was working at growing my own seeds. The main danger to attaining
good germination is in repeatedly moistening developing seed. So, in early March 1988, I moved
six winter-surviving savoy cabbage plants far beyond the irrigated soil of my raised-bed vegetable
garden. I transplanted them 4 feet apart because blooming brassicas make huge sprays of flower
stalks. I did not plan to water these plants at all, since cabbage seed forms during May and
dries down during June as the soil naturally dries out.

That is just what happened. Except that one plant did something a little unusual, though not
unheard of. Instead of completely going into bloom and then dying after setting a massive load
of seed, this plant also threw a vegetative bud that grew a whole new cabbage among the seed
stalks.

With increasing excitement I watched this head grow steadily larger through the hottest and
driest summer I had ever experienced. Realizing I was witnessing revelation, I gave the plant
absolutely no water, though I did hoe out the weeds around it after I cut the seed stalks.
I harvested the unexpected lesson at the end of September. The cabbage weighed in at 6 or 7
pounds and was sweet and tender.

Up to that time, all my gardening had been on thoroughly and uniformly watered raised beds.
Now I saw that elbow room might be the key to gardening with little or no irrigating, so I
began looking for more information about dry gardening and soil/water physics. In spring 1989,
I tilled four widely separated, unirrigated experimental rows in which I tested an assortment
of vegetable species spaced far apart in the row. Out of curiosity I decided to use absolutely
no water at all, not even to sprinkle the seeds to get them germinating.

I sowed a bit of kale, savoy cabbage, Purple Sprouting broccoli, carrots, beets, parsnips,
parsley, endive, dry beans, potatoes, French sorrel, and a couple of field cornstalks. I also
tested one compact bush (determinate) and one sprawling (indeterminate) tomato plant. Many
of these vegetables grew surprisingly well. I ate unwatered tomatoes July through September;
kale, cabbages, parsley, and root crops fed us during the winter. The Purple Sprouting broccoli
bloomed abundantly the next March.

In terms of quality, all the harvest was acceptable. The root vegetables were far larger but
only a little bit tougher and quite a bit sweeter than usual. The potatoes yielded less than
I'd been used to and had thicker than usual skin, but also had a better flavor and kept well
through the winter.

The following year I grew two parallel gardens. One, my "insurance garden," was thoroughly
irrigated, guaranteeing we would have plenty to eat. Another experimental garden of equal size
was entirely unirrigated. There I tested larger plots of species that I hoped could grow through
a rainless summer.

