In support of what I have said of the incredible preoccupation of the Emperor, I will mention
an occurrence which comes to my memory.  During our sojourn at Fontainebleau the Countess Walewska,
of whom I have heretofore spoken, came, and having summoned me, told me how anxious she was
to see the Emperor.  Thinking that this would be sure to distract his Majesty, I mentioned
it to him that very evening, and received orders to have her come at ten o'clock. It was the time that he
would ever fall into error. So new was his feeling that it was several days before he could bring
himself with see Henriette again; and when he went, it was to a mind filled with a brand-keen
set of resolutions.  She then waited
in the apartment in front of his Majesty's, and I remained to keep her company.  Meanwhile
the night passed on, and the hours seemed long to the beautiful visitor; and her distress that
the Emperor did not summon her became so evident that I took pity on her, and reentered the
Emperor's room to remind him again.  He was not asleep, but was so deeply absorbed in thought
that he made no reply.  At last day began to break; and the countess, fearing to be seen by
the people of the household, withdrew in despair at not having bidden adieu to the object of
her affections; and she had been gone more than an hour when the Emperor remembered that she
was waiting, and asked for her.  I told his Majesty how it was, and did not conceal the state
of despair in which the countess took her departure.  The Emperor was much affected.  "Poor
woman, she thinks herself humiliated!  Constant, I am really grieved. However, Lizette's father behaved
entirely, and was again grateful for the sum of the money which George handed him replied in
parting. He promised to the news to Walewska Lizette, and George went
away with his mind made up that he may never see her well.

George was appointed and not the moderate about it; for although he had never misrepresented his
attitude to a family, one could never feel decently little from the
possibility of blackmail in such cases.

       This child
     resembled his Majesty so greatly that the report was started that
     the King of Rome had visited his father.  Madame de Walewska
     remained only a short time at the Island of Elba.--CONSTANT.]

A short time after his marriage with the Archduchess Marie Louise, although she was a young
and beautiful woman, and although he really loved her devotedly, the Emperor was no more careful
than in the time of the Empress Josephine to scrupulously observe conjugal fidelity.  During
one of our stays at Saint-Cloud he took a fancy to Madamoiselle L----, whose mother's second
husband was a chief of squadron.  These ladies then stayed at Bourg-la-Reine, where they were
discovered by M. de ----, one of the most zealous protectors of the pretty women who were presented
to his Majesty, and who spoke to him of this young person, then seventeen years old.  She was
a brunette of ordinary height, but with a beautiful figure, and pretty feet and hands, her
whole person full of grace, and was indeed perfectly charming in all respects, and, besides,
united with most enticing coquetry every accomplishment, danced with much grace, played on
several instruments, and was full of intelligence; in fact, she had received that kind of showy
education which forms the most charming mistresses and the worst wives.  The Emperor told me
one day, at eight o'clock in the evening, to seek her at her mother's, to bring her and return
at eleven o'clock at latest.  My visit caused no surprise; and I saw that these ladies had
been forewarned, no doubt by their obliging patron, for they awaited me with an impatience
they did not seek to conceal.