Of his life in Rome Horace has given us a minute account (Sat. I, vi, 110, etc.). "Waking usually
about six, I lie in bed or on my sofa, reading and writing, till nearly ten o'clock; anoint
myself, go to the Campus for a game at ball, return home to a light luncheon. Then perhaps
I amuse myself at home, perhaps saunter about the town; look in at the Circus and gossip with
the fortune-tellers who swarm there when the games are over; walk through the market, inquiring
the price of garden stuff and grain. Towards evening I come home to my supper of leeks and
pulse and fritters, served by my three slave-boys on a white marble slab, which holds besides
two drinking cups and ladle, a saltcellar shaped like a sea-urchin, an oil flask, and a saucer
of cheap Campanian ware; and so at last I go to bed, not harassed by the thought that I need
rise at day-break." Sometimes, to his great annoyance, he would be roused early to become sponsor
in the law courts for a friend; shivering in the morning cold, pelted by falling hailstones,
abused by the crowd through which he had to force his way. Or he would accompany Maecenas on
a drive, their talk of matters trivial--the time of day, the early frosts, the merits of popular
gladiators. We remember how delightfully Pope has adapted the passage to his own relation with
Harley. (Imitation of Sat. II, vi.) Often he dined with Maecenas or his friends, and one such
dinner he has described, at the house of a rich, vulgar epicure (Sat. II, viii). The guests
were nine in number, including Maecenas, Varius, and Viscus: they lay on couches at maplewood
tables arranged in three sides of a square. The first course was a Lucanian wild boar garnished
with salads; when that was removed, servants wiped the board with purple napkins. Then a procession
of slaves brought in Caecuban and Chian wines, accompanied with cheesecakes, fish, and apples.
The second course was a vast lamprey, prawns swimming in its sauce; the third an olio of crane,
hare, goose's liver, blackbirds, and wood-pigeons. A sumptuous meal, but spoiled by the host's
tedious disquisitions on each dish as it appeared. Of social gatherings in their higher aspect,
of the feasts of reason which he must have often shared at his patron's board, we long to know,
but Horace is discreet; for him the rose of Harpocrates was suspended over every caenobium,
and he would not profane its sacrament. He sat there as an equal, we know; his attitude towards
those above him had in it no tinge of servility. That he was, and meant to be, independent
they were fairly warned; when Maecenas wished to heap on him further benefits, he refused:
"What I have is enough and more than enough," he said, "nay, should fortune shake her wings
and leave me, I know how to resign her gifts" (Od. III, xxix, 53). And if not to Maecenas,
so neither to Maecenas' master, would he sacrifice his freedom. The emperor sought his friendship,
writes caressingly to Maecenas of "this most lovable little bit of a man," wished to make him
his secretary, showed no offence at his refusal. His letters use the freedom of an intimate.
"Septimius will tell you how highly I regard you. I happened to speak of you in his presence;
if you disdain my friendship, I shall not disdain in return."--"I wish your little book were
bigger; you seem to fear lest your books should be bigger than yourself."--"I am vexed with
you, that you have never addressed one of your Epistles to myself; are you afraid that to have
appeared as my friend will hurt you with posterity?" Such royal solicitations are a command,
and Horace responded by the longest and one amongst the most admired of his Epistles (Ep. II,
i). This was his final effort, unless the fragmentary essay on criticism, known as the "Art
of Poetry," belongs to these last years; if that be so, his closing written words were a humorous
disparagement of the "homely slighted shepherd's trade" (A. P. 470-476).

His life was drawing to a close; his friends were falling round him like leaves in wintry weather.
Tibullus was dead, and so was Virgil, dearest and whitest-souled of men (Sat. I, v, 41); Maecenas
was in failing health and out of favour. Old age had come to himself before its time; love,
and wine, and festal crown of flowers had lost their zest:

  Soon palls the taste for noise and fray,
  When hair is white and leaves are sere.

But he rallies his life-long philosophy to meet the change; patience lightens the inevitable;
while each single day is his he will spend and enjoy it in such fashion that he may say at
its conclusion, "I have lived" (Od. III, xxix, 41). His health had never been good, undermined,
he believed, by the hardships of his campaign with Brutus; all the care of Augustus' skilful
physician, Antonius Musa, failed to prolong his days. He passed away on the 17th of November,
B.C. 8, in his fifty-seventh year; was buried on the Esquiline Hill, in a grave near to the
sepulchre of Maecenas, who had died only a few days before; fulfilling the promise of an early
ode, shaped almost in the words of Moabitish Ruth, that he would not survive his friend.

                  The self-same day
  Shall crush us twain; no idle oath
  Has Horace sworn; where'er you go,
  We both will travel, travel both
  The last dark journey down below.

  Od. II, xvii.

THE SATIRES AND EPISTLES

Horace's poems are of two kinds; of one kind the Satires and Epistles, of another the Odes
and Epodes. Their order and dates of publication are shown in the following table:

       B.C.
        35.  First Book of Satires.
        30.  Second Book of Satires, and Epodes.
        23.  First three Books of Odes.
        20.  First Book of Epistles.
        19.  Epistle to Florus.
        17.  The Century Hymn.
  about 13.  Fourth Book of the Odes.
        13.  Epistle to Augustus.
    (?) 10.  The Art of Poetry.

Let us examine first the Satires and Epistles. The word "Satire" meant originally a farrago,
a medley of various topics in various styles and metres. But all early writings of this kind
have perished; and the first extant Latin satirist, Lucilius, who lived in the second century
B.C., devoted his pen to castigating the vices of contemporary society and of living individuals.
This style of writing, together with his six-foot measure, called hexameter, was adopted by
the ethical writers who followed him, Horace, Persius, Juvenal; and so gave to the word satire
a meaning which it retains to-day. In more than one passage Horace recognizes Lucilius as his
master, and imitates him in what is probably the earliest, certainly the coarsest and least
artistic of his poems; but maturer judgement, revolting later against the censorious spirit
and bad taste of the older writer, led him to abandon his model. For good taste is the characteristic
of these poems; they form a comedy of manners, shooting as it flies the folly rather than the
wickedness of vice: not wounding with a red-hot iron, but "just flicking with uplifted lash,"
Horace stands to Juvenal as Chaucer stands to Langland, as Dante to Boccaccio. His theme is
life and conduct, the true path to happiness and goodness. I write sermons in sport, he says;
but sermons by a fellow-sinner, not by a dogmatic pulpiteer, not by a censor or a cynic. "Conversations"
we may rather call them; the polished talk of a well-bred, cultured, practised worldling, lightening
while they point the moral which he ever keeps in view, by transitions, personalities, ironies,
anecdotes; by perfect literary grace, by the underlying sympathy whereby wit is sublimed and
softened into humour.

