The use of beagles was soon afterwards nearly abandoned by the introduction of the harrier,
and by his yielding in his turn to the fox-hound; but the beagles of Colonel Thornton and Colonel
Molyneux will not be soon forgotten. [12]

There is, however, a practice which fair sportsmen will never resort to--the use of a beagle
to start a hare in order to be run down by a brace of greyhounds, or perhaps by a lurcher.
The hare is not fairly matched in this way of proceeding.

THE HARRIER

occupies an intermediate station between the beagle and the fox-hound. It is the fox-hound
bred down to a diminished size, and suited to the animal he is to pursue. He retains, or did
for a while retain, the long body, deep chest, large bones, somewhat heavy head, sweeping ears,
and mellow voice, which the sportsman of old so enthusiastically described, with the certainty
of killing, and the pleasing prolongation of the chase. With this the farmer used to be content:
it did not require expensive cattle, was not attended with much hazard of neck, and did not
take him far from home.

Almost every country squire used in former days to keep his little pack of harriers or beagles.
He was mounted on his stout cob-horse, that served him alike for the road and the chase; and
his huntsman probably had a still smaller and rougher beast, or sometimes ran afoot. He could
then follow the sport, almost without going off his own land, and the farmer's boys, knowing
the country and the usual doublings of the hare, could see the greater part of the chase, and
were almost able to keep up with the hounds, so that they were rarely absent at the death:
indeed, they saw and enjoyed far more of it than the fox-hunter or the stag-hunter now does,
mounted on his fleetest horse.

The harrier was not more than 18 or 19 inches high. He was crossed with the fox-hound if he
was getting too diminutive, or with the beagle if he was becoming too tall.

The principal objects the sportsman endeavoured to accomplish were to preserve stoutness, scent,
and musical voice, with speed to follow the hare sufficiently close, yet not enough to run
her down too quickly, or without some of those perplexities, and faults, and uncertainties
which give the principal zest to the chase.

The character and speed of the hound much depend on the nature of the country. The smaller
harrier will best suit a deeply enclosed country; but where there is little cover, and less
doubling greater size and fleetness are requisite. The harrier, nevertheless, let him be as
tall and as speedy as he may, should never he used for the fox; but every dog should be strictly
confined to his own game.

Mr. Beckford, in his 'Thoughts upon Hunting', gives an account, unrivalled, of the chase of
the hare and fox. Many sporting writers have endeavoured to tread in his steps; but they have
failed in giving that graphic account of the pleasures of the field which Mr. Beckford's essay
contains.

He says that the sportsman should never have more than 20 couple in the field, because it would
he exceedingly difficult to get a greater number to run together, and a pack of harriers cannot
be complete if they do not. A hound that runs too fast for the rest, or that lags behind them,
should be immediately discarded. His hounds were between the large slow-hunting harrier and
the fox-beagle. He endeavoured to get as much bone and strength in as little compass as possible.
He acknowledges that this was a difficult undertaking; but he had, at last, the pleasure to
see them handsome, small, yet bony, running well together, and fast enough, with all the alacrity
that could be desired, and hunting the coldest scent.

He anticipates the present improvement of the chase when he lays it down as a rule never to
be departed from, that hounds of every kind should be kept to their own game. They should have
one scent, and one style of hunting. Harriers will run a fox in so different a style from the
pursuit of a hare, that they will not readily, and often will not at all, return to their proper
work. The difference in the scent, and the eagerness of pursuit, and the noise that accompanies
fox-hunting, all contribute to spoil a harrier.

Mr. Beckford pleasingly expresses a sportsman's consideration for the poor animal which he
is hunting to death.

  "A hare," he says, "is a timorous little animal that we cannot help
  feeling some compassion for at the time that we are pursuing her
  destruction. We should give scope to all her little tricks, nor kill
  her foully nor overmatched. Instinct instructs her to make a good
  defence when not unfairly treated, and I will venture to say that, as
  far as her own safety is concerned, she has more cunning than the fox,
  and makes shifts to save her life far beyond all his artifice." [13]

THE FOX HOUND

is of a middle size, between the harrier and the stag-hound; it is the old English hound, sufficiently
crossed with the greyhound to give him lightness and speed without impairing his scent; and
he has now been bred to a degree of speed sufficient to satisfy the man who holds his neck
at the least possible price, and with which few, except thorough-bred horses, and not all of
them, can live to the end of the chase. The fox-hound is lighter, or as it is now called, more
highly bred, or he retains a greater portion of his original size and heaviness, according
to the nature of the country and the fancy of the master of the pack: therefore it is difficult
to give an accurate description of the best variety of this dog; but there are guiding points
which can never be forgotten without serious injury.

He derives from the greyhound a head somewhat smaller and longer in proportion to his size
than either the stag-hound or the harrier. But considerable caution is requisite here. The
beauty of the head and face, although usually accompanied by speed, must never be sacrificed
to stoutness and power of scent. The object of the sportsman is to amalgamate them, or rather
to possess them all in the greatest possible degree. This will generally be brought to a great
degree of perfection if the sportsman regards the general excellence of the dog rather than
the perfection of any particular point. The ears should not, comparatively speaking, be so
large as those of the stag-hound or the harrier; but the neck should be longer and lighter,
the chest deep and capacious, the fore legs straight as arrows, and the hind ones well bent
at the hock.

Some extraordinary accounts have been given of the speed of the fox-hound. A match that was
run over the Beacon Course at Newmarket is the best illustration of his fleetness. The distance
is 4 miles 1 furlong and 132 yards. The winning dog performed it in 8 minutes and a few seconds;
but of the sixty horses that started with the hounds, only twelve were able to run in with
them. Flying Childers had run the same course in 7 minutes and 30 seconds.

  "The size, or, as we should rather say, the height of a fox-hound, is
  a point on which there has been much difference of opinion. Mr.
  Chule's pack was three inches below the standard of Mr. Villebois',
  and four inches below that of Mr. Warde's. The advocates of the former
  assert, that they get better across a deep and strongly fenced
  country, while the admirers of the latter insist on their being better
  climbers of hills and more active in cover. As to uniformity in size,
  it is by no means essential to the well-doing of hounds in the field,
  and has been disregarded by some of our best sportsmen: Mr. Meynell
  never drafted a good hound on account of his being over or under
  sized. The proper standard of height in fox-hounds is from 21 to 22
  inches for bitches, and from 23 to 24 for dog-hounds. Mr. Warde's
  bitches, the best of the kind that our country contained, were rather
  more than 23 inches. A few of his dogs were 25 inches high. The amount
  of hounds annually bred will depend upon the strength of the kennel.
  From sixty to eighty couples is the complement for a four days a-week
  pack, which will require the breeding of a hundred couples of puppies
  every year, allowing for accidents and distemper." [14]

Nimrod very properly observes, that

  "Mr. Beckford has omitted a point much thought of by the modern
  sportsmen, namely, 'the back-ribs', which should also be deep, as in a
  strong-bodied horse, of which we say, when so formed, that he has a
  good 'spur place;' a point highly esteemed in him. Nor is he
  sufficiently descriptive of the hinder legs of the hound; for there is
  a length of thigh discernible in first-rate hounds which, like the
  well-let-down hock of the horse, gives them much superiority of speed,
  and is also a great security against their laming themselves in
  leaping fences, which they are more apt to do when they become blown
  and consequently weak. The fore legs, 'straight as arrows,' is an
  admirable illustration of perfection in those parts by Beckford; for,
  as in a bow or bandy legged man, nothing is so disfiguring to a hound
  as having his elbows projecting, and which is likewise a great check
  to speed." [15]

Mr. Daniel gives a curious account of the prejudices of sportsmen on the subject of colour.
The white dogs were curious hunters, and had a capital scent; the black, with some white spots,
were obedient, good hunters, and with good constitutions; the gray-coloured had no very acute
scent, but were obstinate, and indefatigable in their quest; the yellow dogs were impatient
and obstinate, and taught with difficulty. [16]

The dog exhibits no criteria of age after the first two years. That period having elapsed,
the whiteness and evenness of the teeth soon pass away, and the 'old' dog can scarcely be mistaken.
Nimrod scarcely speaks too positively when he says that an old hound cannot be mistaken, if
only looked in the face. At all events, few are found in a kennel after the eighth year, and
very few after the ninth.

Mr. Beckford advises the sportsman carefully to consider the size, shape, colour, constitution,
and natural disposition of the dog from which he breeds, and also the fineness of the nose,
the evident strength of the limb, and the good temper and devotion to his master which he displays.
The faults or imperfections in one breed may be rectified in another; and, if this is properly
attended to, there is no reason why improvements may not continually be made.

The separation of the sexes in the kennel and in the field is one of the latest innovations
in the hunting world, and generally considered to be a good one. The eye is pleased to see
a pack of hounds, nearly or quite of a size. The character of the animal is more uniformly
displayed when confined to one sex. In consequence of the separation of the two, the dogs are
less inclined to quarrel; and the bitches are more at their ease than when undergoing the importunate
solicitations of the male. As to their performances in the field, opinions vary, and each sex
has its advocates. The bitch, with a good fox before her, is decidedly more off-hand at her
work; but she is less patient, and sometimes overruns the scent. Sir Bellingharn Graham has
been frequently heard to say, that if his kennels would have afforded it, he would never have
taken a dog-hound into the field. That in the canine race the female has more of elegance and
symmetry of form, consequently more of speed, than the male, is evident to a common observer;
but there is nothing to lead to the conclusion that, in the natural endowments of the senses,
any superiority exists. [17]

The bitch should not be allowed to engage in any long and severe chase after she has been lined.
She should be kept as quiet as may be practicable, and well but not too abundantly fed; each
having a kennel or place of retreat for herself. She should be carefully watched, and especially
when the ninth week approaches. The huntsman and the keeper without any apparent or unnecessary
intrusion, should be on the alert.

The time of pupping having arrived, as little noise or disturbance should be made as possible;
but a keeper should be always at hand in case of abortion or difficult parturition. Should
there be a probability of either of these occurring, he should not be in a hurry; for, as much
should be left to nature as can, without evident danger, be done, and the keeper should rarely
intrude unless his assistance is indispensable.

The pupping being accomplished, the mother should be carefully attended to. She should be liberally
fed, and particularly should have her share of animal food, and an increased quantity of milk.

The bitch should not have whelps until she has hunted two seasons; for, before that time it
will be scarcely possible to ascertain her excellences or defects. If there are any considerable
faults, she should be immediately rejected.

When the time approaches for her to produce her puppies, she should be allowed a certain degree
of liberty, and should choose her couch and run about a little more than usual; but, when the
young ones are born, the less they are handled the better. The constitution and appearance
of the mother will indicate how many should be kept. If two litters are born at or about the
same time, or within two or three days of each other, we may interchange one or two of the
whelps of each of them, and perhaps increase the value of both.

When the whelps are able to crawl to a certain distance, it will be time to mark them, according
to their respective litters, some on the ear and others on the lip. The dew-claws should be
removed, and, usually, a small tip from the tail. Their names also should be recorded.

The whelps will begin to lap very soon after they can look about them, and should remain with
the mother until they are fully able to take care of themselves. They may then be prepared
to go to quarters.

Two or three doses of physic should be given to the mother, with intervals of four or five
days between each: this will prepare her to return to the kennel.

There is often considerable difficulty in disposing of the whelps until they get old and stout
enough to be brought into the kennel. They are mostly sent to some of the neighbouring cottages,
in order to be taken care of; but they are often neglected and half starved there. In consequence
of this, distemper soon appears, and many of them are lost.

Whelps 'walked', or taken care of at butchers' houses, soon grow to a considerable size; but
they are apt to be heavy-shouldered and throaty, and perhaps otherwise deformed. There is some
doubt whether it might not be better for the sportsman to take the management of them himself,
and to have a kennel built purposely for them. It may, perhaps, be feared that the distemper
will get among them: they would, however, be well fed, and far more comfortable than they now
are; and, as to the distemper, it is a disease that they must have some time or other.

From twenty to thirty couples are quite as many as can be easily managed; and the principal
consideration is, whether they are steady, and as nearly as possible equal of speed. When the
packs are very large, the hounds are seldom sufficiently hunted to be good. Few persons choose
to hunt every day, or, if they did, it is not likely that the weather would permit them. The
sportsman would, therefore, be compelled to take an inconvenient number into the field, and
too many must be left behind. In the first place, too many hounds in the field would frequently
spoil the sport; and, on the other hand, the hounds that remained would get out of wind, or
become riotous, or both. Hounds, to be useful and good, should be constantly hunted; but a
great fault in many packs is their having too many old dogs among them.

Young hounds, when first taken to the kennel, should be kept separate from the rest of the
pack, otherwise there will be frequent and dangerous quarrels. When these do occur, the feeder
hears, and sometimes, but not so frequently as he ought, endeavours to discover the cause of
the disturbance, and visits the culprits with deserved punishment; too often, however, he does
not give himself time for this, but rushes among them, and flogs every hound that he can get
at, guilty or not guilty. This is a shameful method of procedure. It is the cause of much undeserved
punishment: it spoils the temper of the dog, and makes him careless and indifferent as long
as he lives.

Mr. Beckford very properly remarks, that

  "Young hounds are, and must be awkward at first, and should be taken
  out, a few at a time, with couples not too loose. They are thus
  accustomed to the usual occurrences of the road, and this is most
  easily accomplished when a young and an old dog are coupled together."

A sheep-field is the next object, and the young hound, properly watched, soon becomes reconciled,
and goes quietly along with the companion of the preceding day. A few days afterwards the dogs
are uncoupled in the field, and perhaps, at first, are not a little disposed to attack the
sheep; but the cry of "Ware sheep!" in a stern tone of voice, arrests them, and often, without
the aid of the whip; it being taken as a principle that this instrument should be used as seldom
as possible. If, indeed, the dog is self-willed, the whip must be had recourse to, and perhaps
with some severity; for, if he is once suffered to taste the blood of the sheep, it may be
difficult to restrain him afterwards. A nobleman was told that it was possible to break his
dogs of the habit of attacking his sheep, by introducing a large and fearless ram among them;
one was accordingly procured and turned into the kennel. The men with their whips and voices,
and the ram with his horns, soon threw the whole kennel into confusion. The hounds and the
ram were left together. Meeting a friend soon afterwards, "Come," said he, "to the kennel,
and see what rare sport the ram is making among the hounds." His friend asked whether he was
not afraid that some of them might be spoiled. "No," said he; "they deserve it, and let them
suffer." They proceeded to the kennel; all was quiet. The kennel-door was thrown open, and
the remains of the ram were found scattered about: the hounds, having filled their bellies,
had retired to rest.

The time of entering young hounds must vary in different countries. In a corn country, it should
not be until the wheat is carried; in grass countries, somewhat sooner; and, in woodlands,
as soon as we please. Frequent hallooing may be of use with young hounds; it makes them more
eager; but, generally speaking, there is a time when it may be of use, a time when it does
harm, and a time when it is perfectly indifferent.

The following remarks of Mr. Beckford are worthy of their author:

  "Hounds at their first entering cannot be encouraged too much. When
  they begin to know what is right, it will be soon enough to chastise
  them for doing wrong, and, in such case, one rather severe beating
  will save a great deal of trouble. The voice should be used as well as
  the whip; and the smack of the whip will often be of as much avail as
  the lash to him who has felt it."

Flogging hounds in the kennel, the frequent practice of too many huntsmen, should be held in
utter abhorrence, and, if carried to a considerable excess, is a disgrace to humanity. Generally
speaking, none but the sportsman can form an adequate conception of the perfect obedience of
the hound both in the kennel and the field. At feeding-time, each dog, although hungry enough,
will go through the gate in the precise order in which he is called by the feeder; and, in
a well-broken pack, to chop at, or to follow a hare, or to give tongue on a false scent, or
even to break cover alone, although the fox is in view, are faults that are rarely witnessed.

Let not this obedience, however, be purchased by the infliction of a degree of cruelty that
disgraces both the master and the menial. A young fox-hound may, possibly, mistake the scent
of a hare for that of a fox, and give tongue. In too many hunts he will be unmercifully flogged
for this, and some have almost died under the lash. Mercy is a word totally unknown to a great
proportion of whippers-in, and even to many who call themselves gentlemen. There can be no
occasion or excuse for barbarity: a little trouble, and moderate punishment, and the example
of his fellows, will gradually teach the wildest hound his duty.

That the huntsman, and not the hound, may occasionally be in fault, the following anecdote
will furnish sufficient proof. In drawing a strong cover, a young bitch gave tongue very freely,
while none of the other hounds challenged.

Notwithstanding the dreadful pain that must have ensued, she again took up the scent, and proved
herself right; for the fox had stolen away, and she had broken cover after him, unheeded and
alone. After much delay and cold hunting, the pack hit off the same scent.

At some distance a farmer informed the sportsmen, that they were a long way behind the fox,
for he had seen a single hound, very bloody about the head, running breast-high, so that there
was but little chance of their getting up with her. The pack, from her coming to a check, did
at last overtake her.

The same bitch once more hit off the scent, and the fox was killed, after a long and severe
run. The eye of the poor animal, that had hung pendent through the chase, was then taken off
with a pair of scissors.

THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE SEASON.

During the beginning of autumn, the hounds should be daily exercised when the weather will
permit. They should often be called over in the kennel to habituate them to their names, and
walked out among the sheep and deer, in order that they may he accustomed perfectly to disregard
them.

A few stout hounds being added to the young ones, some young foxes may occasionally be turned
out. If they hunt improper game, they must be sternly checked. Implicit obedience is required
until they have been sufficiently taught as to the game which they are to pursue. No obstinate
deviation from it must ever be pardoned. The hounds should be, as much as possible, taken out
into the country which they are afterwards to hunt, and some young foxes are probably turned
out for them to pursue. At length they are suffered to hunt their game in thorough earnest,
and to taste of its blood.

After this they are sent to more distant covers, and more old hounds are added, and so they
continue until they are taken into the pack, which usually happens in September. The young
hounds continue to be added, two or three couple at a time, until all have hunted. They are
then divided into two packs, to be taken out alternate days. Properly speaking, the sport cannot
be said to begin until October, but the two preceding months are important and busy ones. [18]

  "It would appear, then," says Nimrod, "that the breeding of a pack of
  fox-hounds, bordering on perfection, is a task of no ordinary
  difficulty. The best proof of it is to be found in the few sportsmen
  that have succeeded in it. Not only is every good quality obtained if
  possible, but every imperfection or fault is avoided. The highest
  virtue in a fox-hound is his being true to the line his game has gone,
  and a stout runner at the end of the chase. He must also be a patient
  hunter when there is a cold scent and the pack is at fault."

While there is no country in the world that can produce a breed of horses to equal the English
thorough-bred in his present improved state, there are no dogs like the English fox-hound for
speed, scent, and continuance. It would seem as if there were something in the climate favourable
and necessary to the perfection of the hound. Packs of them have been sent to other countries,
neighbouring and remote; but they have usually become more or less valueless.

As regards the employment of the voice and the horn when out with hounds, too much caution
cannot be used. A hound should never be cheered unless we are perfectly convinced that he is
right, nor rated unless we are sure that he is wrong. When we are not sure of what is going
on we should sit still and be silent. A few moments will possibly put us in possession of all
that we wish to know. [19]

The horn should only be used on particular occasions, and a huntsman should speak by his horn
as much as by his voice. Particular notes should mean certain things, and the hounds and the
field should understand the language. We have heard some persons blowing the horn all the day
long, and the hounds have become so careless as to render it of no use. When a hound first
speaks in cover to a fox, you may, if you think it necessary, use 'one single' and prolonged
note to get the pack together. The same note will do at any time to call up a lost or loitering
hound; but, when the fox breaks cover, then let your horn be marked in its notes: let it sound
as if you said through it, "Gone away! gone away! gone away! away! away! away!" dwelling with
full emphasis on the last syllable. Every hound will fly from the cover the moment he hears
this, and the sportsmen and the field will know that the fox is away.

It is the perfection of the horse, and the perfection of the hound, and the disregard of trifling
expense, that has given to Englishmen a partiality for field-sports, unequalled in any other
country. Mr. Ware's pack of fox-hounds cost 2000 guineas, and the late Lord Middleton gave
the same to Mr. Osbaldeston for ten couples of his hounds.

HUNTING-KENNELS.

It is time, however, to speak of the kennel, whether we regard the sporting architecture of
Mr.G. Tattersall, or the scientific inquiries of Mr. Vyner, or a sketch of the noble buildings
at Goodwood.

The lodging-rooms should be ceiled, but not plastered, with ventilators above and a large airy
window on either side. The floors should be laid with flags or paved with bricks. Cement may
be used instead of mortar, and the kennels will then be found wholesome and dry. The doorways
of the lodging-houses will generally be four feet and a half wide, in the clear. The posts
are rounded, to prevent the hounds from being injured when they rush out. The benches may be
made of cast-iron or wood; those composed of iron being most durable, but the hounds are more
frequently lamed in getting to them. The wooden benches must be bound with iron, or the hounds
will gnaw or destroy them. A question has arisen, whether the benches should be placed round
the kennel, or be in the centre of it, allowing a free passage by the side. There is least
danger of the latter being affected by the damp. The walls should be wainscoted to the height
of three feet at least. This will tend very considerably to their comfort.

The floors of all the courts should be arranged in nearly the same way; the partition walls
being closed at the bottom, but with some iron work above. The doorways should also be so contrived,
that the huntsman may be able to enter whenever he pleases. The boiling-house should be at
as great a distance from the hunting-kennel as can be managed, continuing to give warmth to
the infirmary for distempered puppies, and at the same time being out of the way of the other
courts.

Mr. Vyner gives an interesting account of the young hounds' kennel:

  "This building," he says, "should be as far from the other
  lodging-rooms as the arrangements of the structure will allow. There
  is also an additional court, or grass-yard, an indispensable requisite
  in the puppies' kennel. The size must be regulated according to the
  waste land at the end of the building; but the longer it is, the
  better. At the farther end of the grass-court is a hospital for such
  young hounds as are distempered, so contrived as to be remote from the
  other kennels, and, at the same time, within an easy distance of the
  boiling-house, whence it is apparently approached by an outside door,
  through which the feeder can constantly pass to attend to the sick
  hounds without disturbing the healthy lots. Although this lodging room
  is warmed by the chimney of the boiling-house, it must be well
  ventilated by two windows, to which shutters must be attached;
  ventilation and good air being quite as necessary to the cure of
  distemper as warmth."

KENNEL LAMENESS.

We now proceed to a most important and ill-understood subject--the nature and treatment of
'kennel lameness'. It is a subject that nearly concerns the sportsman, and on which there are
several and the most contrary opinions.

This is a kind of lameness connected with, or attributable to, the kennel. According to the
early opinion of Mr. Asheton Smith, who is a good authority, it was referable to some peculiarity
in the breed or management of the hounds; but, agreeably to a later opinion, it is dependent
on situation and subsoil, and may be aggravated or increased by circumstances over which we
have no control. Some kennels are in low and damp situations, yet the hounds are free from
all complaint: and others, with the stanchest dogs and under the best management, are continually
sinking under kennel lameness.

Mr. R. T. Vyner was one of the first who scientifically treated on this point, and taught us
that 'clay is not by any means an objectionable soil to build a kennel upon', although so many
pseudo-sportsmen are frightened by the very name of it.

He enters at once into his subject.

  "I am thoroughly convinced," says he, "from my own experience, and, I
  may add, my own suffering, that the disease of kennel lameness arises
  only from one cause, and that is an injudicious and unfortunate
  selection of the spot for building. The kennel is generally built on a
  sand-bed, or on a sandstone rock, while the healthiest grounds in
  England are on a stiff clay, and they are the healthiest because they
  are the least porous. Although this may be contrary to the opinion and
  prejudice of the majority of sportsmen, it is a fact that cannot be
  contradicted.

  "Through a light and friable soil, such as sand and sandstone, a
  vapour, more or less dense, is continually exhaling and causing a
  perpetual damp, which produces that fearful rheumatism which goes by
  the name of kennel lameness, while the kennels that are built on a
  clay soil, a soil of an impervious nature, are invariably healthy.

  "I could," he adds, "enumerate twenty kennels to prove the effect--the
  invariable effect--of the existence of the disease on the one part,
  and of the healthiness of the situation on the other. I turn
  particularly to her Majesty's kennel at Ascot, the arches of which
  were laid under the very foundation strain, and yet little at no
  amendment has ever taken place in the healthiness and comfort of the
  dogs. It is necessary to select a sound and healthy situation when
  about to erect a kennel, and that sound and healthy situation can be
  met with alone on a strong impervious clay soil. We must have no fluid
  oozing through the walls or the floor of the kennel, and producing
  damp and unhealthy vapours, such as we find in the sandbed."

With regard to this there can be no error.

Nimrod, in his excellent treatise on 'Kennel Lameness', asks, whether it does not appear that
this disease is on the increase. He asks,

  "How is it that neither Beckford nor Somerville says one word that
  clearly applies to the disease; and no one, however learned he might
  be in canine pathology, has been able clearly to define the disease,
  much less to discover a remedy for it?"

All that Mr. Blaine says on the matter amounts only to this:

  "The healthiness of the situation on which any kennel is to be built,
  is an important consideration. It is essential that it should be both
  dry and airy, and it should also be warm. A damp kennel produces
  rheumatism in dogs, which shows itself sometimes by weakness in the
  loins, but more frequently by lameness in the shoulders, known under
  the name of kennel lameness."

Mr. Blaine illustrates this by reference to his own experience.

  "There is no disease, with the exception of distemper and mange, to
  which dogs are so liable as to a rheumatic affection of some part of
  the body. It presents almost as many varieties in the dog as it does
  in man; and it has some peculiarities observable in the dog only.
  Rheumatism never exists in a dog without affecting the bowels. There
  will be inflammation or painful torpor through the whole of the
  intestinal canal. It is only in some peculiar districts that this
  occurs; it pervades certain kennels only; and but until lately there
  has been little or almost no explanation of the cause of the evil."
  [20]

Nimrod took a most important view of the matter, and to him the sporting world is much indebted.

  "How is it," he asks, "that, in our younger days, we never heard of
  kennel lameness, or, indeed, of hounds being lame at all, unless from
  accident, or becoming shaken and infirm from not having been composed
  of that iron-bound material which the labours of a greyhound or a
  hound require? How is it, that, in our younger days, masters of hounds
  began the season with 50 or 60 couples, and, bating the casualties,
  left off at the end of it equally strong in their kennels, and able,
  perhaps, to make a valuable draft; whereas we now hear of one-half of
  the dogs in certain localities being disabled by disease, and some
  masters of hounds compelled to be stopped in their work until their
  kennels are replenished."

Washing hounds when they come home after work must be injurious to them, although it has almost
become the fashion of modern times. If they are not washed at all, and we believe it to be
unnecessary, yet the kennels in which lameness has appeared should be strictly avoided. It
should be on the day following and not in the evening of a hunting-day that washing should
take place.

Mr. Hodgson told Nimrod, that the Quorn Pack never had a case of kennel lameness until his
late huntsman took to washing his hounds after hunting, and then he often had four or five
couples ill from this cause. He deprecated even their access to water in the evening after
hunting, and we believe that he was quite right in  so doing.

The tongue of the dog, with the aid of clean straw, is his best and safest instrument in cleansing
his person; and, if he can be brought to his kennel with tolerably clean feet, as Mr. Foljambe
enables him to be brought, he will never be long before he is comfortable in his bed, after
his belly is filled.

