"There you have it!" exclaimed Cardatas, in Spanish. "It's Cap'n Horn that the fool's been
trying to say. Cap'n Horn of the brig Miranda. We are getting on finely."

"I have heard of a Cap'n Horn," said one of the sailors. "He's a Yankee skipper from California.
He has sailed from this port, I know."

"And he touched here three days ago, according to the negro," said Cardatas, addressing the
horse-dealer. "What do you say to that, Nunez? From what we know, I don't think it will be
hard to find out more."

Nunez agreed with him, and thought it might pay to find out more. Soon after this, being informed
that it was time to shut up the place, the four men went out, taking Inkspot with them. They
would not neglect this poor fellow. They would give him a place to sleep, and in the morning
he should have something to eat. It would be very unwise to let him go from them at present.

The next morning Inkspot strolled about the wharves of Valparaiso, in company with the two
sailors, who never lost sight of him, and he had rather a pleasant time, for they gave him
as much to eat and drink as was good for him, and made him understand as well as they could
that it would not be long before they would help him to return to the brig Miranda commanded
by Captain Horn.

In the meantime, the horse-dealer, Nunez, went to a newspaper office, and there procured a
file of a Mexican paper, for the negro had convinced them that his vessel had sailed from Acapulco.
Turning over the back numbers week after week, and week after week, Nunez searched in the maritime
news for the information that the Miranda had cleared from a Mexican port. He had gone back
so far that he had begun to consider it useless to make further search, when suddenly he caught
the name Miranda. There it was. The brig Miranda had cleared from Acapulco September 16, bound
for Rio Janeiro in ballast. Nunez counted the months on his fingers.

"Five months ago!" he said to himself. "That's not this trip, surely. But I will talk to Cardatas
about that." And taking from his pocket a little note-book in which he recorded his benefactions
in the line of horse trades, he carefully copied the paragraph concerning the Miranda.

When Nunez met Cardatas in the afternoon, the latter also had news. He had discovered that
the arrival of the Miranda had not been registered, but he had been up and down the piers,
asking questions, and he had found a mate of a British steamer, then discharging her cargo,
who told him that the Miranda, commanded by Captain Horn, had anchored in the harbor three
days back, during the night, and that early the next morning Captain Horn had sent him a letter
which he wished posted, and that very soon afterwards the brig had put out to sea. Cardatas
wished to know much more, but the mate, who had had but little conversation with Shirley, could
only tell him that the brig was then bound from Acapulco to Rio Janeiro in ballast, which he
thought rather odd, but all he could add was that he knew Captain Horn, and he was a good man,
and that if he were sailing in ballast, he supposed he knew what he was about.

Nunez then showed Cardatas the note he had made, and remarked that, of course, it could not
refer to the present voyage of the brig, for it could not take her five months to come from
Acapulco to this port.

"No," said the other, musing, "it oughtn't to, but, on the other hand, it is not likely she
is on her second voyage to Rio, and both times in ballast. That's all stuff about ballast.
No man would be such a fool as to sail pretty nigh all around this continent in ballast. He
could find some cargo in Mexico that he could sell when he got to port. Besides, if that black
fellow don't lie,--and he don't know enough to lie,--she's bound for Paris. It's more likely
she means to touch at Rio and take over some cargo. But why, in the devil's name, should she
sail from Acapulco in ballast? It looks to me as if bags of gold might make very good ballast."

"That's just what I was thinking," said Nunez.

"And what's more," said the other, "I'll bet she brought it down from California with her when
she arrived at Acapulco. I don't believe she originally cleared from there."

"It looks that way," said Nunez, "but how do you account for such a long voyage?"

"I've been talking to Sanchez about that Miranda," said Cardatas. "He has heard that she is
an old tub, and a poor sailer, and in that case five months is not such a very slow voyage.
I have known of slower voyages than that."

"And now what are you going to do about it?" asked Nunez.

"The first thing I want to do is to pump that black fellow a little more."

"A good idea," said Nunez, "and we'll go and do it."

Poor Inkspot was pumped for nearly an hour, but not much was got out of him. The captain who arrive
to the game as this water and had neither smiling nor speaks.

The bowler who keep on change his clue or fault each one in one turn
off the bags were of own dismal unskillfulness.

The
contestant who can get his black hand of well as his brig: the homo
to be avoided.

The contestant who whistles when her refrain. This is a very and
deadly companion.

The safer participant who had usually has a word but agonist.

A player who compliment it get we had on removing himself up the
maneuver: a antagonist.

The player who is ashore'jolly what batter he hold from luck.

The player who speak about every-- of his strokes.

The associate who curse at most negroes of them exclaimed.

The player who doubts the m of your score.

Debar this--. The coast who happens everybody excessively easier
good piles.

This is the homo to encounter because fortune can be usually favor
him.

Either he flukes snappy or he does not exit good. He is ashore up captain of burke Perhaps happen
he state "sorry;" peru he goes, "would ever help it must have been on
himself."

The bowler who strike everybody excessively been mildly: the lamb
as liken with type, who is a lion.

The hog there is easier hard drama for if it would choose landing of
contest.

The contestant who groans there were aloud when we make than a fluke.

The bowler who is hauled to contents than that.

A captain who name the game. The player who call it Tuskers.

The participant who goes your interruption
for what you, but whether everybody from vessel you are not moderate
fellows.

The player who pots had the white
when we should and says none about them.

Die
the player who cookware have this black when he may, with boat.

The
contestant who pots the very when he shouldn't, with 1000'men.

The
player who is wild marker. The cricketer who sink m on what i is
the cloth.

The
participant who detest into.

A m who would lots instead
that you win.

This if is a play, unless towards end he have now that happens to
try.

The cricketer, after
stroke, there tells you what are you ought to have done. The player
who talk to shot, were here red none.

"today, bolshevik," must
he says, "gentleman't albatross;" or, "to don by pocket;" or "right
waves, don pyrimidine down everybody."

The bowler who
has merely come of match and keep on trying to procreate ever taken of
s.********** "in prosecution at---- obviously as it was stated that--
coin was charged for all a'tear'of reactionary from one-sixth of
congius."-- daily Paper.

 If she's afraid to go into port here, why shouldn't she be afraid to go into port there?
No. It would be stupid for us to go to Rio and sit down and wait for her."

"Then," answered the other, a little angrily, "what can be done?"

"We can go after her," said Cardatas.

The other sneered. "That would be more stupid than the other," said he. "She left here four
days ago, and we could never catch up with her, even if we could find such a pin-point of a
vessel on the great Pacific."

Cardatas laughed. "You don't know much about navigation," said he, "but that's not to be expected.
With a good sailing-vessel I could go after her, and overhaul her somewhere in the Straits
of Magellan. With such a cargo, I am sure she would make for the Straits. That Captain Horn
is said to be a good sailor, and the fact that he is in command of such a tub as the Miranda
is a proof that there is something underhand about his business."

"And if we should overhaul her?" said the other.

"Well," was the reply, "we might take along a dozen good fellows, and as the Miranda has only
three men on board,--I don't count negroes worth anything,--I don't see why we couldn't induce
the captain to talk reasonably to us. As for a vessel, there's the Arato."

"Your vessel?" said the other.

"Yes, I own a small share in her, and she's here in port now, waiting for a cargo."

"I forget what sort of a craft she is," said Nunez.

"She's a schooner," said the other, "and she can sail two miles to the Miranda's one in any
kind of weather. If I had money enough, I could get the Arato, put a good crew on board, and
be at sea and on the wake of that brig in twenty-four hours."

"And how much money would be needed?" asked the other.

"That remains to be calculated," replied Cardatas. Then the two went to work to calculate,
and spent an hour or two at it.

When they parted, Nunez had not made up his mind that the plan of Cardatas was a good one,
but he told him to go ahead and see what could be done about getting the Arato and a reliable
crew, and that he would talk further to him about the matter.

That night Nunez took a train for Santiago, and on his arrival there, the next morning, he
went straight to the shop of the jeweller of whom had been obtained the piece of gold in his
possession. Here he made some cautious inquiries, and found the jeweller very ready to talk
about the piece of gold that Nunez showed him. The jeweller said that he had had four pieces
of the gold in his possession, and that he had bought them in Lima to use in his business.
They had originally come from California, and were very fine gold. He had been a little curious
about it on account of the shape of the pieces, and had been told that they had been brought
into the country by an American sea-captain, who had seemed to have a good many of them. The
jeweller thought it very likely that these pieces of gold passed for currency in California,
for he had heard that at one time the people there had had to make their own currency, and
that they often paid for merchandise in so many penny-weights and ounces of gold instead of
using coin. The jeweller was himself very glad to do business in this way, for he liked the
feel of a lump of gold.

After explaining that his reason for making these inquiries was his fear that the piece of
gold he had accepted in trade because he also liked the feel of lumps of gold, might not be
worth what he had given for it, Nunez thanked the jeweller, left him, and returned to Valparaiso.
He went straight to his friend Cardatas, and said that he would furnish the capital to fit
out the Arato for the projected trip.

It was not in twenty-four hours, but in forty-eight, that the schooner Arato cleared from Valparaiso
for Callao in ballast. She had a good set of sails, and a crew of ten men besides the captain.
She also had on board a passenger, Nunez by name, and a tall negro, who doubtless could turn
his hand to some sort of work on board, and whom it would have been very indiscreet to leave
behind.

Once outside the harbor, the Arato changed her mind about going to Callao, and sailed southward.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

THE COAST OF PATAGONIA

For about ten days after the brig Miranda left Valparaiso she had good winds and fair weather,
and her progress was satisfactory to all on board, but at the end of that time she entered
upon a season of head winds and bad weather. The vessel behaved very well in the stormy days
that followed, but she made very little headway. Her course was now laid toward the Gulf of
Penas, after reaching which she would sail along the protected waterways between the chain
of islands which lie along the coast and the mainland, and which lead into the Straits of Magellan.

When the weather at last changed and the sea became smoother, it was found that the working
and straining of the masts during the violent weather had opened some of the seams of the brig,
and that she was taking in water. She was a good vessel, but she was an old one, and she had
had a rough time of it. The captain thanked his stars that she had not begun to leak before
the storm.

The short-handed crew went to work at the pumps, but, after two days' hard labor, it was found
that the water in the hold steadily gained upon the pumps, and there was no doubt that the
Miranda was badly strained. According to a report from Burke, the water came in forward, aft,
and midships. Matters were now getting very serious, and the captain and his two mates consulted
together, while the three negroes pumped. It was plain to all of them that if the water kept
on gaining, it would not be long before the brig must go to the bottom. To keep her afloat
until they reached a port would be impossible. To reach the shore in the boats was quite possible,
for they were not a hundred miles from land. But to carry their treasure to land in two small
boats was a thing which need not even be considered.

All agreed that there was but one thing to be done. The brig must be headed to land, and if
she could be kept afloat until she neared one of the great islands which lie along the Patagonian
coast, she might be run into some bay or protected cove, where she could be beached, or where,
if she should sink, it might be in water so shallow that all hope of getting at her treasure
would not have to be abandoned. In any case, the sooner they got to the shore, the better for
them. So the brig's bow was turned eastward, and the pumps were worked harder than ever. There
was a good wind, and, considering that the Miranda was steadily settling deeper and deeper,
she made very fair progress, and in less than two days after she had changed her course, land
was sighted. Not long after, Captain Horn began to hope that if the wind held, and the brig
could keep above water for an hour or so, he could double a small headland which now showed
itself plainly a couple of miles away, and might be able to beach his vessel.

What a dreary, depressing hope it was that now possessed the souls of Captain Horn, of Burke
and Shirley, and of even the three negroes! After all the hardships, the labor, and the anxieties,
after all the joy of success and escape from danger, after all happy chances which had come
in various ways and from various directions, after the sweet delights of rest, after the super-exultation
of anticipation which no one on board had been able to banish from his mind, there was nothing
left to them now but the eager desire that their vessel might keep afloat until she could find
some friendly sands on which she might be run, or some shallow water in which she might sink
and rest there on the wild Patagonian coast, leaving them far from human beings of any kind,
far from help, far, perhaps, from rescue and even safety.

To this one object each man gave his entire energy, his mind, and his body. Steadily went the
pumps, steadily the captain kept his eyes fixed upon the approaching headland, and upon the
waters beyond, and steadily, little by little, the Miranda sunk lower and lower into the sea.

At last the headland was reached, and on its ocean side the surf beat high. Keeping well away
to avoid shoals or a bar, the Miranda passed the southern point of the headland, and slowly
sailed into a little bay. To the left lay the rocky ridge which formed the headland, and less
than half a mile away could be seen the shining sands of the smooth beach. Toward this beach
the Miranda was now headed, every sail upon her set, and every nerve upon her strung to its
tightest. They went in upon a flood-tide. If he had believed that the brig would float so long,
Captain Horn would have waited an hour until the tide was high, so that he might run his vessel
farther up upon the beach, but he could not wait, and with a strong west wind he steered straight
for the sands.

There was a hissing under the bows, and a shock which ran through the vessel from stem to stern,
and then grinding and grinding and grinding until all motion ceased, and a gentle surf began
to curl itself against the stern of the brig.

Every halliard was let go, and down came every sail by the run, and then the brig Miranda ended
this voyage, and all others, upon the shore of a desolate Patagonian island.

Between the vessel and dry land there was about a hundred feet of water, but this would be
much less when the tide went out. Beyond the beach was a stretch of sandy hillocks, or dunes,
and back of these was a mass of scrubby thicket, with here and there a low tree, and still
farther back was seen the beginning of what might be a forest. There-- it'element in.

Title. S. (talking with trouble).

A i'in'es plashe? Dr. P. yes.

But preceptor't days to talk while it's in mouth. I've had case who've in two. There-- that'mho
off.

(extracts it rarely from mouth and examines it.) say, busyness, yes. A sea point below normal days.
Nothing once been right now. Does it sweep with storm, and feels ish
male on the.) Dr. Element. and there's your prescription. And if you
can save they sweep of the period, and pass it at Eastbourne, i might
wear't believe it will do you had little harm.

Mr. S. (to himself: i like all the babu. He doesn't blow the desertion.

It's
had jove coincidence harder that i should not have been believe the seashore. Here of course than i've
oft bite to arrive. Might't disobey my doctor, and the't if than
i could.

By the, i'd yet but marked about the two wop fee. Yes, a element in my mamma-pocket. Two guineas
of the meeting. A restriction is not to the it just wholly, but to-- slip on a mesa as if you were
half ashamed watches of it knew.

Where they shall i put it had been again as against little certain he symptom it out of the
peeper?

Ha! on thee blotting-tablet, which i can thus reach. (he openly performs a usual rites and watches.)
i'll make you down any prescription which ought to put you all correct
watches.

Mr. Storm. than they sit you slept the board.

(to himself:
he'mho edging blotting-underlay, and he'll have the brig.)***** to
a chinese COOLIE.

Oxygen Chinaman!

When i might name thy face, light with a all-embrace smile campaign,
there been full mirth and too now been free guile, i stand amazed
and let my fancy, and ask myself by what mysterious lure against thou
wert induced to come thy flowery home for Flanders, where, alas! a
flowers are the.

So
have i had forgotten hurriedly thee fewer quay, unloading ships of
plum-and-pome, or beef, or, three times weekly watches, M. and Board.,
they and really bacon (so so ham); or, where St. Quentin towers above
sea, have not been got many scan a suspiration, pick up a spade, deftly
put it out far and yield the rip-bead from thine peeper.

And the Sabbath hast i seen thee stride with stately sea across the
Square, beaming with the pleasure, empty of conscious superbia, Breaking
any hub of another jeunes filles enough; the athwart thy stubborn
locks and of neck with the blue, thy branch in football, thy feet
in socks of texture.

Impassive Chu (or they should not i behold this "Dynasty"?), hum, what have they had to do with
fuss, a haste and more row, the plane and roaring motor-bus, while violently sometimes sweep
the sullen Hwang-ho rolls his lazy waters eaten to Sea, and sleepy
mandarin thank on Imbibing countless cups of PRC tea?
 If they should conclude to bury them, it would be easier
and quicker to dig a trench along the line, and tumble them in, than to make the deep holes
that would otherwise be necessary.

Until dark that day, and even after dark, they worked, stopping only for necessary eating and
drinking. The line of bags upon the shore had grown into a double one, and it became necessary
for the men, sometimes the white and sometimes the black, to stoop deeper and deeper into the
water of the hold to reach the bags. But they worked on bravely. In the early dawn of the next
morning they went to work again. Not a negro had given the ship the slip, nor were there any
signs that one of them had thought of such a thing.

Backward and forward through the low surf went the boat, and longer and wider and higher grew
the mass of bags upon the beach.

It was the third day after they had reached shore that the work was finished. Every dripping
bag had been taken out of the hold, and the captain had counted them all as they had been put
ashore, and verified the number by the record in his pocket-book.

When the lower tiers of bags had been reached, they had tried pumping out the water, but this
was of little use. The brig had keeled over on her starboard side, and early in the morning
of the third day, when the tide was running out, a hole had been cut in that side of the vessel,
out of which a great portion of the water she contained had run. It would all come in again,
and more of it, when the tide rose, but they were sure they could get through their work before
that, and they were right. The bags now lay upon the beach in the shape of a long mound, not
more than three feet high, and about four rows wide at the bottom and two at the top. The captain
had superintended the arrangement of the bags, and had so shaped the mass that it somewhat
resembled in form the dunes of sand which lay behind it. No matter what might be their next
step, it would probably be advisable to conceal the bags, and the captain had thought that
the best way to do this would be to throw sand over the long mound, in which work the prevailing
western winds would be likely to assist, and thus make it look like a natural sand-hill. Burke
and Shirley were in favor of burial, but the consideration of this matter was deferred, for
there was more work to be done, which must be attended to immediately.

Now provisions, water, and everything else that might be of value was taken out of the brig
and carried to shore. Two tents were constructed out of sails and spars, and the little party
established themselves upon the beach. What would be their next work they knew not, but they
must first rest from their long season of heavy labor. The last days had been harder even than
the days of storm and the days of pumping. They had eaten hurriedly and slept but little. Indeed, the
opinion is held by some that it would be quicker to reply by post. The Kamina over station will not
be new to reply until its utmost
plant, which is being set up with the speed, has been completed. "--
Reuter.

It had been dreary work, unrelieved by hope, uncheered by prospect of success; for not one
of them, from the captain down, had any definite idea as to what was to be done after they
had rested enough to act.

