"Somethin' told me to take a ray-gun down in the mine with me. I was just steppin' out o' the
elevator when I caught your last signal; -L-P D-A-R-L was all I got, but it was enough. How
you ever got the other side of the barrier had me wingin', but you were there right enough,
and yellin' for help. Ran-los had been doin' some repairs on a head support an' his weldin'
machine was still there. Takin' an awful chance on there bein' air on the other side, I butted
it up against the wall, shot the flame against the steel, and when she was soft enough had
some of the Weenies smash her in with sledge-hammers. First thing I see is you, stretched out
in a pool o' blood, with a couple of those yellow imps just gettin' to work on you. I clipped
them first--that gave the Martian a chance to get away. An' then--well, you know the rest."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I owe you one for that, Jim. Too bad, though, the big fellow escaped; we'll hear from him
again, or I don't know the breed. Wonder how he got on the planet."

"The sucker must 'a' stowed away on the last recruit ship from Venus, slipped in a case o'
tools or somethin'. Mars has labor agents there, too, you know, for their farms on Ganymede."

"Possibly. He knew my name, and that I was chief here. He's rigged up an air-lock out there,
though I can't figure out how he gets the air."

"That's easy. While I was repairin' the barrier I found a pipe runnin' through. He's been stealin'
ours. Which, by the same token, is why he was punchin' holes in the Dome rather than down below,
where he would have been safer from discovery."

"So that's it. Get anything more on the space-radio?"

"Nope. Angus has kept the ear-flaps on, but the ether is still jammed. Hey, what're you up to?"

Darl was swinging his bandaged body up from the cot that had been set up in the headquarters
tent at his insistence. "Can't lie on my back," he panted, "with that devil loose on the planet.
Lord knows what he's up to now. We're short-handed enough as it is."

He rose to his feet, staggering with weakness and loss of blood. But his indomitable will drove
him on. "I'll take over the control board. Send Angus up to relieve Ran-los, and you get below
and speed up production. Earth will need double quantities of surta for food, now that there's
a war on."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jim turned to convey the order to the Scot, but he whirled to the tent-flap instead as a riot
of sound exploded outside. He tore aside the canvas, and now there was a burst of shrill, frightened
Venusian cries, and a deeper, rattling chorus. Out on the Dome floor, pouring from the shaft-head
in a panic torrent, came the Venusians. And among them, leaping, slashing, dragging them down,
were countless little yellow men, their fangs and tusks and curving claws crimson with the
blood of their victims.

"Darl, Mac, they've broken through! The Mercs have broken through!" The brown plain was a blood-spattered
battlefield. Here and there little groups of the green men, braver than the rest, fought with
spanner and hammer and whatever improvised weapon they may have found. "Come on, give 'em hell!"
The three Earthmen dashed out, weapons in hand. But friend and foe were so intermingled that
they could not use the devastating ray of their hand-guns. The fighting Venusians were vanishing
under a tossing sea of yellow imps. And still the dwarfs poured forth from the mine entrance.

A blue form towered, far back, where all green had vanished, and only Mercurians were left.
The Martian's beak opened in a rattling call. A group of hundreds of pigmies suddenly left
the main fight, and came forward with short, swift steps. They dashed straight for the Earth
trio and cut them off from the Venusians they were running to aid.

       *       *       *       *       *

Side by side the three fought. Their weapons grew hot in their hands as the beams cut great
swaths in the seething ranks. The attackers halted, gave back, then surged forward again as
the roar of their alien commander lashed them on.

The Earthmen faced the frenzied throng. A cleared circle was still around them. Beyond, the
Venusians were all down. The Mercurian mob was closing in, the Terrestrians' rays had lost
half their range. In moments now the ray-guns would be exhausted.

"The plane!" Darl shouted. "Back to the plane, it's our only chance."

The gyrocopter that could carry them aloft, out of the rout, was fifty feet away. They fought
through to it and reached it just as the last faint charge flashed from Mac's tube. Jim was
at the controls, Darl smashed his useless projector into the chattering face of a dwarf that
had leaped on the Scot's shoulders and dragged Angus into the cockpit.

The overloaded flier zoomed to the landing at the lofty air-lock's manhole and hovered as Darl
and Angus slipped home the hooks that held it to the platform. "The spy has the Dome," Jim
grunted, "but by God, he hasn't got us. We'll be safe in the lock up here, till help comes.
And then--"

"Safe is it?" Angus broke in. "Mon, luik ye what those bairns fra hell are up to the noo."

A yellow tide was rising about the base of each of the latticed steel arches that vaulted to
the Earthmen's refuge. On every side the dwarfs were climbing, were swarming up the walls in
numbers so great that they concealed the metal beneath. Up, up they came, slowly but surely.
And right in the center of the plain, ankle-deep in the torn fragments of the murdered Venusians,
was the Martian, directing the attack.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jim groaned. "I might've known he'd never let us get away. It's slow bells for us, I guess.
Hey, where's Darl?"

"Gone weethin. No, guid losh, he's here!"

Darl appeared, his features pale and drawn, carrying an armful of ray-guns. "Grab these," he
snapped. "We're not licked yet."

"Licked, hell!" Jim's roar reverberated. "We've just begun to fight!" The Scot was silent,
but the battle light shone in his eyes. In another moment the Terrestrians were kneeling, were
raking the roof girders as the mounting Mercurians came within range. Each had two ray-guns
in his hands, and a little pile of extra tubes beside him. They fought silently, wasting not
a single blast.

Six white rays flamed through the misty, humid air, and striking the teeming girders, swept
them clean. A greasy, horrible smoke cloud gathered along the shell and drifted slowly down,
till the concrete blocks from which the steel framework sprang were hidden in a black pall.
Fighters, these three, true ITA men who had left memories of their battle-prowess on more than
one wild planet! Gaunt-bodied demi-gods of war, they hurled crackling bolts of destruction
from their perch at the Dome top. By hundreds, by thousands, the Mercurian pigmies vanished
in dark vapor, or plunged, blackened corpses, into the fog that billowed below.

One by one the tubes were discharged and tossed down at the seething mob. The heaped weapons
dwindled, and still the climbing hordes renewed themselves, came on in endless mounting streams
to sure destruction. The open tunnel vomited forth a torrent of gibbering dwarfs. From the
uttermost burrows of the planet the pigmies were flooding in at the call of the Martian who
stood scatheless beneath and lashed them on with the strange dominance he held over them. The
Earthmen fought on, endlessly, till they were sick of killing, nauseated with slaughter. And
still the snouted, red-eyed imps came on.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jim snatched up his last two ray-guns. Out of the corner of his eye he noted that Darl was
using but one, the other, his last, was thrust into the chief's belt. He wondered at this,
but a new spurt of yellow above the oily fog wiped the question from his lips. "Swallow that,
you filthy lice! Hope you like the way it tastes!" His guns spouted death.

"I'm through!" The call came at last from McDermott. "Me too!" Jim Holcomb hurled his final,
futile tubes down at the blue figure of the Mars man. A moment's hush held the trio. Then Jim
flexed his great hands. "Well, these'll take care of a couple more o' them before I check in."

"No you don't," Darl barked, his face a graven image. "Inside with you. The lock will hold
'em off."

"Yeah? Look."

Thomas swung in the direction Jim was pointing. Rising above the murk, something glinted in
the pale light. On the furthest upright a clumped group of climbing savages were struggling
to drag up one of the welding machines, a long black hose snaking from its cylindrical bulk.

"They'll cut through the steel in fifteen minutes with that. The bloody bugger ain't missin'
a trick."

"Inside, I tell you." Darl's crisp tone of command brooked no denial. The three crowded into
the cool recesses of the manmade aerie. Angus slammed the steel door shut. Even if by some
miracle the Dome wall should be pierced and the air in the main vault dissipated into outer
space, this air-tight compartment hung from the hemisphere's roof would remain, a last refuge,
till the atmosphere within had become poisonous through the Earthmen's slow breathing. But
the Martian had anticipated Darl's final move. The oxy-hydrogen jet of the welding machine
the dwarfs were hoisting would make short work of their final defense.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the conning-tower above Ran-los called excitedly. Through all the long battle the Venusian
had remained steadfast at the peri-telescope, scanning the vacant terrain outside, and the
heavens. As Darl and Jim dashed for the stairs Mac ran after them, crying out, "What did he
say, mon?"

"Space ship in sight," Darl flung over his shoulder as he reached the upper landing.

"Praise be! Noo the haythan weel get his desairts!"

"Yeah, maybe--if it's an Earth ship. But we won't be here to see it."

Jim's red head was bending over the peri-telescope view-screen. "She's still thirty thousand
miles away. Give her a speed of fifteen per second--she'll have to slow up to land, can't make
it under forty-five minutes. By then we'll be in little pieces. It took me ten minutes to burn
through the barrier when I rescued Darl, and it won't take the Mercs any longer to get at us."

Darl was very sober as he looked on with narrowed eyes. Against a background of velvet black,
gold spangled, the slim space-traveler showed. The sun's rays caught her, and she was a tiny
silver fish in the boundless void.

"Luik ye, mon, luik ye!" Angus, fairly dancing with excitement, elbowed Darl aside. "She's
from Airth, richt enow!" At the nose of the oncoming flier a rapid succession of colored lights
had flashed, the recognition signal that should give her safe access to the Dome. Again there
was a coruscation of coded flashes. "She's a battle cruiser, what's mair!" the Scot exclaimed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Darl sprang to the keyboard that manipulated the signal lights from the Dome's roof. "No use,"
he said, after a short while. "The Martian has cut off the current from the dynamos. I can't
warn the ship." He made a hopeless gesture.

Jim looked at him wonderingly. "Warn 'em? What for? Even if we are all dead when she reaches
here, at least she'll clean up the Mercs, and retake the Dome for Earth."

"Don't you see it? When the Mars man has once blasted his way in here and disposed of us, he'll
be ready for the space ship. Her captain can't suspect anything wrong. He must have left Earth
at the time of the ultimatum, and would easily get here before any ship could be sent out from
Mars. He'll come on till he's within range of the beam-thrower, and the Martian will aim, press
the trigger and the Earth ship and her crew of a half a thousand brave lads will be star-dust."

"Oh God!" Jim was white-faced. "Isn't there anything we can do? Maybe if he doesn't get our
all-clear signal he'll sheer off." This was clutching at straws.

"Why should he? He must know how short-handed we are, and will simply think we're not on watch,
or that our signal lights are out of order. Matter of fact, if he were at all suspicious he
should be alternating his course right now--and he hasn't. Look."

Seemingly motionless, but really splitting the ether with terrific speed, the warship was coming
straight on to garrison the beleaguered post. She had never wavered from her straight course
for the Dome. The little group was silent, watching the help that was coming at last, coming
too late.

       *       *       *       *       *

From below there came a thunder of sound. Jim slid down the stairs. An irregular disk on the
wall was glowing cherry-red from the heat of the blow-torch without, and the metal was quivering
under the Mercurian's sledge-hammer blows. "Darl's right," he almost sobbed as he gazed helplessly.
"They'll be through in no time. The Dome's gone, we're gone, the space ship's gone!"

"Let me pass, Jim." Thomas' quiet voice sounded behind him. Holcomb turned. His leader was
in a space suit, the helmet still unfastened.

"Blazes! Where the devil are you going?"

"Here, cover me with this till I reach the gyrocopter, then get back quick, and seal the air-lock."
Darl thrust into Jim's hand the ray-gun he had previously reserved. "There's only one way to
kill off the Martian and his mob. I'm taking it."

Suddenly Jim Holcomb understood. "No, Darl, no--you can't do it! Not you! Let me go! I'm just
a dumbhead. Let me go!"

"Thanks, Jimmy, but it's my place." Darl's voice was low, and very calm. "I was in charge,
and I lost the Dome. If I can save the boys on the ship, and you two, it's the least I can
do. Good-by, old man. Give my regards to Earth."

Thomas' face was gray-white. The thick bandages that still swathed him, Jim glimpsed them through
the open neckpiece of the suit, gave him the semblance of a mummy. The helmet clicked shut.
Swallowing a lump that rose in his throat, Jim pulled open the door. A wave of Mercurians surged
in, to be seared into nothingness by his weapon. He was in the doorway, his ray sweeping the
platform clear.

Darl was out now, stepping into the flier that still hung by its hooked moorings. Jim caught
a flash of blue and looked up. The Martian was hanging to a girder just above, his green tube
pointing straight at Darl. A white ray spurted from Jim's gun. The Martian's weapon and the
hand that held it vanished in the sizzling blast. The plane was loose! Jim leaped inside the
air-lock, slammed the steel door shut, clamped it, and sprang for the quartz peer-hole.

       *       *       *       *       *

Darl's gyrocopter was diving on a long slant for the Dome wall. Faster and faster it went,
till all Jim could see was a white streak in the smoky dimness. And now he could see the vast
interior, the teeming plain, the dwarf-festooned girders and roof-beams. He stood rigid, waiting
breathlessly. Then the plane struck--fair in the center of a great panel of quartz. The wall
exploded in a burst of flying, shattered splinters. A deafening crash rocked the Dome.

