 Early Thursday morning a start was made, but the vessel was ordered back, as the days of getting
her is ready had made it to take advantage to the darkness. All Wednesday night the crew at
work of the Merrimac near acquire her stripped for her final resting-place.
 The anniversary of
the day is kept. The Captain, steering straight for the entrance as he thought, ran upon the
rocks. There was only one survivor, who was thrown upon a ledge of rock, and was not found
for two days. The ship was full of colonists returning home, and the calamity threw nearly
all Sydney into mourning. There is now a lighthouse near at hand, with a magnificent electric
light, which can be seen thirty miles away. At Manly Beach, near the North Head, is a fine
sandy tract; it is a favourite bathing-place, and round about are many pretty villas. A young
clergyman, recently come from England as locum tenens to an absent vicar, was then at Manly
Beach with his wife. I had known him in England, so we made up a picnic to drive northward
from Manly about 15 miles, to a place called Pitwater. A charming drive it was. Now and then
glimpses of the sea on the right hand were seen. For several miles the road was bordered with
the lovely wild flowers which grow in profusion near Sydney, so much so that in September the
ladies of Manly get up a wild-flower show. The varieties of the wattle are especially beautiful.
Pitwater consisted of one house, to which the road had been made but a few months previously.
It was at the edge of an inlet from the sea, which here comes in some distance, but it looked
like an inland lake, so still and solemn were the surroundings. My friend had the reputation
of being one of the best, if not the best, preachers in Sydney. He occupied one of the largest
churches and kept it full. His matter was excellent, but his reputation he owed chiefly to
his admirable elocution, in which art he had taken lessons in London. If only more clergymen
would have the sense to do the same! It is very well to say that, as religion is so all-important
a subject, any sermon should compel attention. Perhaps that should be so, but men are mortal,
and sermons are not listened to any more than any other utterances if they are tedious and
badly delivered.

The area of New South Wales is over 300,000 square miles, or half as large again as that of
France. Its population is a little under a million. Sydney, with 220,000, is the only large
town; there is not another above 15,000. There is little agriculture and no manufactures to
speak of. At Newcastle, about 60 miles north of Sydney, coal is found in abundance, and from
there most of Australia is supplied, but much of it is of a dirty and smoky kind, more fit
for steamers than for domestic use. Coal has now been found in Gippsland, in Victoria, and
it is a question of carriage to bring it into use at Melbourne. The New South Wales coal is
about 21s. a ton in Melbourne. The pastoral interest (sheep farming) is the principal, almost
the only interest in New South Wales, therefore when one drought follows another the whole
colony is of course depressed. At these times the public offices in Sydney are besieged by
crowds of men out of work, and the Government will employ as many as possible, sometimes uselessly.
This is a dangerous thing, for men speedily acquire the notion that if they do nothing for
themselves the Government is bound to provide for them. But a man out of work in Sydney or
Melbourne is a different animal from the same man in England. If offered 4s. 6d. a day for
stone breaking he will object that it blisters his hands. He wants not merely work, but work
that he happens to like, and any politician who will provide him with work of this kind will
be sure of his vote at the next election.

