"I have pointed out some of the negative wastes of competition," answered the other. "I have
hardly mentioned the positive economies of co-operation. Allowing five to a family, there are
fifteen million families in this country; and at least ten million of these live separately,
the domestic drudge being either the wife or a wage slave. Now set aside the modern system
of pneumatic house-cleaning, and the economies of co-operative cooking; and consider one single
item, the washing of dishes. Surely it is moderate to say that the dishwashing for a family
of five takes half an hour a day; with ten hours as a day's work, it takes, therefore, half
a million able-bodied persons--mostly women to do the dishwashing of the country. And note
that this is most filthy and deadening and brutalizing work; that it is a cause of anemia,
nervousness, ugliness, and ill-temper; of prostitution, suicide, and insanity; of drunken husbands
and degenerate children--for all of which things the community has naturally to pay. And now
consider that in each of my little free communities there would be a machine which would wash
and dry the dishes, and do it, not merely to the eye and the touch, but scientifically--sterilizing
them--and do it at a saving of all the drudgery and nine-tenths of the time! All of these things
you may find in the books of Mrs. Gilman; and then take Kropotkin's Fields, Factories, and
Workshops, and read about the new science of agriculture, which has been built up in the last
ten years; by which, with made soils and intensive culture, a gardener can raise ten or twelve
crops in a season, and two hundred tons of vegetables upon a single acre; by which the population
of the whole globe could be supported on the soil now cultivated in the United States alone!
It is impossible to apply such methods now, owing to the ignorance and poverty of our scattered
farming population; but imagine the problem of providing the food supply of our nation once
taken in hand systematically and rationally, by scientists! All the poor and rocky land set
apart for a national timber reserve, in which our children play, and our young men hunt, and
our poets dwell! The most favorable climate and soil for each product selected; the exact requirements
of the community known, and the acreage figured accordingly; the most improved machinery employed,
under the direction of expert agricultural chemists! I was brought up on a farm, and I know
the awful deadliness of farm work; and I like to picture it all as it will be after the revolution.
To picture the great potato-planting machine, drawn by four horses, or an electric motor, ploughing
the furrow, cutting and dropping and covering the potatoes, and planting a score of acres a
day! To picture the great potato-digging machine, run by electricity, perhaps, and moving across
a thousand-acre field, scooping up earth and potatoes, and dropping the latter into sacks!
To every other kind of vegetable and fruit handled in the same way--apples and oranges picked
by machinery, cows milked by electricity--things which are already done, as you may know. To
picture the harvest fields of the future, to which millions of happy men and women come for
a summer holiday, brought by special trains, the exactly needful number to each place! And
to contrast all this with our present agonizing system of independent small farming,--a stunted,
haggard, ignorant man, mated with a yellow, lean, and sad-eyed drudge, and toiling from four
o'clock in the morning until nine at night, working the children as soon as they are able to
walk, scratching the soil with its primitive tools, and shut out from all knowledge and hope,
from all their benefits of science and invention, and all the joys of the spirit--held to a
bare existence by competition in labor, and boasting of his freedom because he is too blind
to see his chains!"

Dr. Schliemann paused a moment. "And then," he continued, "place beside this fact of an unlimited
food supply, the newest discovery of physiologists, that most of the ills of the human system
are due to overfeeding! And then again, it has been proven that meat is unnecessary as a food;
and meat is obviously more difficult to produce than vegetable food, less pleasant to prepare
and handle, and more likely to be unclean. But what of that, so long as it tickles the palate
more strongly?"

"How would Socialism change that?" asked the girl-student, quickly. It was the first time she
had spoken.

"So long as we have wage slavery," answered Schliemann, "it matters not in the least how debasing
and repulsive a task may be, it is easy to find people to perform it. But just as soon as labor
is set free, then the price of such work will begin to rise. So one by one the old, dingy,
and unsanitary factories will come down--it will be cheaper to build new; and so the steamships
will be provided with stoking machinery, and so the dangerous trades will be made safe, or
substitutes will be found for their products. In exactly the same way, as the citizens of our
Industrial Republic become refined, year by year the cost of slaughterhouse products will increase;
until eventually those who want to eat meat will have to do their own killing--and how long
do you think the custom would survive then?--To go on to another item--one of the necessary
accompaniments of capitalism in a democracy is political corruption; and one of the consequences
of civic administration by ignorant and vicious politicians, is that preventable diseases kill
off half our population. And even if science were allowed to try, it could do little, because
the majority of human beings are not yet human beings at all, but simply machines for the creating
of wealth for others. They are penned up in filthy houses and left to rot and stew in misery,
and the conditions of their life make them ill faster than all the doctors in the world could
heal them; and so, of course, they remain as centers of contagion, poisoning the lives of all
of us, and making happiness impossible for even the most selfish. For this reason I would seriously
maintain that all the medical and surgical discoveries that science can make in the future
will be of less importance than the application of the knowledge we already possess, when the
disinherited of the earth have established their right to a human existence."

And here the Herr Doctor relapsed into silence again. Jurgis had noticed that the beautiful
young girl who sat by the center-table was listening with something of the same look that he
himself had worn, the time when he had first discovered Socialism. Jurgis would have liked
to talk to her, he felt sure that she would have understood him. Later on in the evening, when
the group broke up, he heard Mrs. Fisher say to her, in a low voice, "I wonder if Mr. Maynard
will still write the same things about Socialism"; to which she answered, "I don't know--but
if he does we shall know that he is a knave!"

And only a few hours after this came election day--when the long campaign was over, and the
whole country seemed to stand still and hold its breath, awaiting the issue. Jurgis and the
rest of the staff of Hinds's Hotel could hardly stop to finish their dinner, before they hurried
off to the big hall which the party had hired for that evening.

But already there were people waiting, and already the telegraph instrument on the stage had
begun clicking off the returns. When the final accounts were made up, the Socialist vote proved
to be over four hundred thousand--an increase of something like three hundred and fifty per
cent in four years. And that was doing well; but the party was dependent for its early returns
upon messages from the locals, and naturally those locals which had been most successful were
the ones which felt most like reporting; and so that night every one in the hall believed that
the vote was going to be six, or seven, or even eight hundred thousand. Just such an incredible
increase had actually been made in Chicago, and in the state; the vote of the city had been
6,700 in 1900, and now it was 47,000; that of Illinois had been 9,600, and now it was 69,000!
So, as the evening waxed, and the crowd piled in, the meeting was a sight to be seen. Bulletins
would be read, and the people would shout themselves hoarse--and then some one would make a
speech, and there would be more shouting; and then a brief silence, and more bulletins. There
would come messages from the secretaries of neighboring states, reporting their achievements;
the vote of Indiana had gone from 2,300 to 12,000, of Wisconsin from 7,000 to 28,000; of Ohio
from 4,800 to 36,000! There were telegrams to the national office from enthusiastic individuals
in little towns which had made amazing and unprecedented increases in a single year: Benedict,
Kansas, from 26 to 260; Henderson, Kentucky, from 19 to 111; Holland, Michigan, from 14 to
208; Cleo, Oklahoma, from 0 to 104; Martin's Ferry, Ohio, from 0 to 296--and many more of the
same kind. There were literally hundreds of such towns; there would be reports from half a
dozen of them in a single batch of telegrams. And the men who read the despatches off to the
audience were old campaigners, who had been to the places and helped to make the vote, and
could make appropriate comments: Quincy, Illinois, from 189 to 831--that was where the mayor
had arrested a Socialist speaker! Crawford County, Kansas, from 285 to 1,975; that was the
home of the "Appeal to Reason"! Battle Creek, Michigan, from 4,261 to 10,184; that was the
answer of labor to the Citizens' Alliance Movement!

And then there were official returns from the various precincts and wards of the city itself!
Whether it was a factory district or one of the "silk-stocking" wards seemed to make no particular
difference in the increase; but one of the things which surprised the party leaders most was
the tremendous vote that came rolling in from the stockyards. Packingtown comprised three wards
of the city, and the vote in the spring of 1903 had been 500, and in the fall of the same year,
1,600. Now, only one year later, it was over 6,300--and the Democratic vote only 8,800! There
were other wards in which the Democratic vote had been actually surpassed, and in two districts,
members of the state legislature had been elected. Thus Chicago now led the country; it had
set a new standard for the party, it had shown the workingmen the way!

--So spoke an orator upon the platform; and two thousand pairs of eyes were fixed upon him,
and two thousand voices were cheering his every sentence. The orator had been the head of the
city's relief bureau in the stockyards, until the sight of misery and corruption had made him
sick. He was young, hungry-looking, full of fire; and as he swung his long arms and beat up
the crowd, to Jurgis he seemed the very spirit of the revolution. "Organize! Organize! Organize!"--that
was his cry. He was afraid of this tremendous vote, which his party had not expected, and which
it had not earned. "These men are not Socialists!" he cried. "This election will pass, and
the excitement will die, and people will forget about it; and if you forget about it, too,
if you sink back and rest upon your oars, we shall lose this vote that we have polled to-day,
and our enemies will laugh us to scorn! It rests with you to take your resolution--now, in
the flush of victory, to find these men who have voted for us, and bring them to our meetings,
and organize them and bind them to us! We shall not find all our campaigns as easy as this
one. Everywhere in the country tonight the old party politicians are studying this vote, and
setting their sails by it; and nowhere will they be quicker or more cunning than here in our
own city. Fifty thousand Socialist votes in Chicago means a municipal-ownership Democracy in
the spring! And then they will fool the voters once more, and all the powers of plunder and
corruption will be swept into office again! But whatever they may do when they get in, there
is one thing they will not do, and that will be the thing for which they were elected! They
will not give the people of our city municipal ownership--they will not mean to do it, they
will not try to do it; all that they will do is give our party in Chicago the greatest opportunity
that has ever come to Socialism in America! We shall have the sham reformers self-stultified
and self-convicted; we shall have the radical Democracy left without a lie with which to cover
its nakedness! And then will begin the rush that will never be checked, the tide that will
never turn till it has reached its flood--that will be irresistible, overwhelming--the rallying
of the outraged workingmen of Chicago to our standard! And we shall organize them, we shall
drill them, we shall marshal them for the victory! We shall bear down the opposition, we shall
sweep if before us--and Chicago will be ours! Chicago will be ours! CHICAGO WILL BE OURS!"