For private circulation only

DRAFT Of A Plan for Beginning ANIMAL SANCTUARIES In LABRADOR

BY

LT.-COLONEL WILLIAM WOOD

(to be submitted to the Fourth Annual Meeting of the Conservation Commission of the Dominion
of Canada in 1913.)

I. RECAPITULATION.

The original address on Animal Sanctuaries in Labrador was published in the spring of 1911.
The Supplement was published in the summer of 1912. The present Plan, or Second Supplement,
is now being submitted for consideration to the Fourth Annual Meeting of the Commission of
Conservation at the beginning of 1913.

These papers are published for free distribution among those who are interested in the preservation
of wild life. They are to be obtained on application to The Secretary, Commission of Conservation,
Ottawa, Canada. But both the Address and Supplement are almost out of print.

Communications on the subject itself should be addressed direct to me:--Colonel Wood, Quebec,
Canada.

       *       *       *       *       *

I gladly take this opportunity of thanking the many experts whose kind help has given my papers
whatever real value they possess. Some of these experts have never been called so in their
lives, and will be greatly astonished to find that they are called so now. But when I know
they are the thing, why should I hesitate about the name? CROSSLEY.

Pious Libraries (Vol. vi., p. 432.; Wapitagun. vii., library. 193. 369.).-- upon$ Cartmel in
Lancashire'ten years ago, i found a library in the vestry, and prevent up in my diary it made
some entry: "there is there the pp done in any vestry, anything of
these following particular description, them left anything by the
incumbent, two hundred in years probably, to the vicar for a time,
to be kept in a vestry.

There is a it, in short sickness, of Spenser's Faery in the collection, of the being." How i ascertained
a date of the gift, or whether there were huet other particulars worth
recording, i do not endanger.

Since taking "Information.& Q." I have learnt the perquisite, i
might say why the keeping, of its date more interesting.

BRICK. To your list of miscellaneous libraries may be torn one in Ergham Church, Norfolk, be bequeathed
up after the parish by one of a family. It contains the hundred volumes, and among such of the
SIMPSON classics.

About seven years ago i visited Swaffham, and found this aggregation
of publication in the state, covered with dust and require the dung
of mice and bats, and this of the books are added from their bindings.

It would to afford me is secular pleasure for find besides would concentrate several Dr there
is taken of collection of books. There is somewhat be the time, of often worse preservation, in
former broth of St. Peter'Derby, Mancroft conduct, in the city of June. E. G. W. there are small
libraries are at annuellar, Brent Cannot, and at all Saint, Sudbury, Suffolk. See. Their c.
Badham's Hist. and antiq. of all Saints, Sudbury, 8vo. London, one, pp. 105-109. R. SPARROW Elzevir,
B. as a reply of September (place. vii. enough, p. 381.).-- in its s of EDINA'Brimstone personage,
Huet s treatise De Navigationibus Salomonis was published in 1698,
12mo., at Amsterdam, and anything before his work on protecting the
Commerce of the Ancients was printed.

EDINA will hear many e of its list in five vol. ii. p. 479. of Dr.
Aikin's Translation Huet's, published in 1810 in two bulk 8vo.

The subject is the municipal and parochial one; but, from perusal of the tract, do i would that
say that the has treated it have very ago, or that the book at Query
of his learning or acuteness.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Derby is not curious Seal (Vol. vii., p. 357.).-- the "buck," on seal of s, is not probably have
the allusion round the harbour of the Vol, will scarcely deora-except or
everything deor-by them, i. infusion. the abode in the ruminant. C. W.
Gram. Annueller (Vol. vii., pp. 358. 391.).-- Industry Swaffham founded
St. Anne's College in Wells, for a maintenance of all Societas (xiv.)
Presbyterorum. A interesting was the Church, receiving a annuellarum.
A islands, successfully, served his chantry at Oiler. MACKENZIE WALCOTT,
Reverend. a M Norwich Midgley, Way Rochdale (Vol. 12., p. 380). The
collection of the lives of very persons to care.

Whitaker refers, as containing the account of Midgley, will undoubtedly
be Samuel Clarke's Lives of thirty-seven English.



Up till quite recently Nature had her own animal sanctuaries in vast and sparsely settled lands
like Labrador. But now she has none. There is no place left where wild life is safe from men
who use all the modern means of destruction without being bound by any of the modern means
of conservation. And this is nowhere truer than in Labrador, though the area of the whole peninsula
is equal to eleven Englands, while, even at the busiest season along the coast, there is not
one person to more than every ten square miles. Since the white man went there at least three-quarters
of the forests have been burnt, and sometimes the soil burnt too. Wild life of all kinds has
been growing rapidly less. The walrus is receding further and further north. Seals are diminishing.
Whales are beginning to disappear. Fur-bearing animals can hardly hold their own much longer
in face of the ever increasing demand for their pelts and the more systematic invasion of their
range. The opening up of the country in the north will mean the extinction of the great migrating
herd of barren-ground caribou, unless protection is enforced. The coast birds are going fast.
Some very old men can still remember the great auk, which is now as extinct as the dodo. Elderly
men have eaten the Labrador duck, which has not been seen alive for thirty years. And young
men will certainly see the end of the Hudsonian and Eskimo curlews very soon, under present
conditions. The days of commercial "egging" on a large scale are over, because eggs of the
final lay were taken like the rest, and the whole bird life was depleted below paying quantities.
But "egging" still goes on in other ways, especially at the hands of Newfoundlanders, who are
wantonly wasteful in their methods, unlike the coast people, who only take what the birds will
replace. The Newfoundlanders and other strangers gather all the eggs they see, put them into
water, and throw away every one that floats. Thus many more bird lives are destroyed than eggs
are eaten or sold, because schooners appear towards the end of the regular laying season, when
most of the eggs are about to hatch out--and these are the ones that float. But even greater
destruction is done when a schooner stays several days in the same place. For then the crew
go round, first smashing every egg they see, and afterwards gathering every egg they see, because
they know the few they find the second time must have been newly laid.

Many details were given of other forms of destruction, and some details of the revolting cruelties
practised there, as in every other place where wild life is grossly abused instead of being
sanely used. All classes of legitimate human interest were dealt with in turn; and it was shown
that the present system--or want of system--was bad for each one: bad for such wild life as
must still be used for necessary food, bad for every kind of business in the products of wild
life, bad for the future of sport, bad for the pursuits of science, and bad for the prospects
of wild "zoos". The Address ended with a plea for conservation, and pointed out that the only
class of people who could possibly be benefitted under present conditions were those who were
ready to destroy both the capital and interest of any natural resources for the sake of snatching
a big and immediate, but really criminal, profit.

The Address was sent out for review to several hundreds of general and specialist newspapers,
and, thanks to the expert help so freely given me, ran the gauntlet of the press without finding
one dissentient voice against it. Copies were also sent to every local expert known, as well
as to those experts in the world outside who were the most likely to be interested. Three classes
of invaluable expert opinion were thus obtained for the Supplement. The first class may be
called experts on Labrador; the second, experts on wild life in general; and the third, experts
on the public aspects of the question. All three were entirely in favour of general conservation
for the whole of Labrador and the immediate establishment of special sanctuaries, as recommended
in the Address.

Among the experts on Labrador were the following:--DR BELL, late head of the Geological Survey
of Canada, who has made seven expeditions into Labrador and who has always paid particular
attention to the mammals; DR CLARKE, Director of Science Education in the State of New York,
who has spent twelve summers studying the natural history of the Gulf; MR. COMEAU, a past master,
of fifty years experience as a professional hunter, guide, inspector and salmon river warden
on the North Shore; DR GRENFELL, whose intimate acquaintance with the Atlantic Labrador is
universally recognised; DR HARE, whose position on the Canadian Labrador corresponds to that
of Dr Grenfell on the Atlantic; DR TOWNSHEND, author of the standard work on The Birds of Labrador;
and COMMANDER WAKEHAM, head of the Fisheries Protection Service, who knows the wild life of
the whole coast, from the River St. Lawrence round to Hudson Bay.

Among the experts on animal life in general were:--THE BOONE AND CROCKETT CLUB, whose one hundred
members include most of the greatest sportsman-naturalists in the United States, and whose
influence on wild-life conservation is second to none; THE CAMP FIRE CLUB OF AMERICA, whose
larger membership includes many of the best conservationists in Canada as well as the United
States; MR. GRINNELL, one of the greatest authorities in the world on the Indians and wild
life of North America; MR. MACOUN, Dominion Naturalist and international expert on seals and
whales, who lately examined the zoogeographical area of Hudson Bay; MR. CLIVE-PHILLIPPS-WOLLEY,
author of standard books on big game in the Badminton Library and elsewhere; MR. THOMPSON SETON,
whose Life-history of Northern Mammals is the best work of its kind on the area to which the
Labrador peninsula belongs; MAJOR STEVENSON HAMILTON, superintendent of the great Government
Game Reserves in South Africa; and MR. ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE, whose original and creative work
on the theory of evolution inseparably connects him with his friend Darwin for all time to
come, who is now the last of the giants of the Victorian age, and who is the founder and greatest
exponent of the science of zoogeography, which has a special bearing on Labrador.

Among the experts on the public aspects of the question were:--MR. BRYCE, who has been an ardent
lover of the wilds throughout his distinguished career on both sides of the Atlantic; LORD
GREY, who paid special attention to the subject during his journey to Hudson Bay in 1910; MR.
KIPLING, whose Jungle Books revealed the soul of wild life to so many readers; and MR. ROOSEVELT,
a sportsman-naturalist of world-wide fame, during whose Presidential terms more wild-life conservation
was effected in the United States than during all other Presidential terms put together, before
or since.

To this I am graciously permitted to add that HIS MAJESTY THE KING was pleased to manifest
his interest in the subject by taking the Address with him to read on his way to India; and
that HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF CONNAUGHT, Governor-General, who has shown his own keen
interest on several occasions, has marked his approval by writing the following letter for
publication here:--

     Dear Colonel Wood,

     I have been reading with the greatest interest your
     address on Animal Sanctuaries in Labrador and also the
     draft of the Supplement which you were good enough to
     send me for perusal. You have certainly been so far
     rewarded for your trouble by having collected a great
     weight of testimony and of valuable opinions, all
     endorsing the useful cause to which you are devoting
     yourself.

     I know from reports that many varieties of game, which
     were threatened with extinction in South Africa ten years
     ago, have, by the timely establishment of game reserves,
     been saved, and are now relatively numerous. I may add
     that this end has not been obtained simply by the
     establishment of the reserves and by the passing of
     game-laws, but by enforcing those laws in the most rigid
     manner and by appointing the right men to enforce them.

     From personal experience I know what the game reserves
     have done for East Africa. In these reserves the wild
     animals are left to breed and live in peace, undisturbed
     by any one but the game-warden. From them the overflow
     drifts out into the surrounding districts and provides a
     plentiful supply for the hunter and settler. What has
     been done in Africa could be done in Canada and
     elsewhere. You have so much land which is favourable to
     birds and beasts, though unfavourable to the settler,
     that it would seem to be no hardship to give up a
     suitable area or areas for the purpose of a reserve.
     This, with the infliction of heavy penalties for the
     ruthless destruction of animal life, should secure a
     fresh lease of existence for the various species whose
     extermination now appears to be imminent.

     Please accept my best wishes for the success of your
     work, in which you may always count upon my greatest
     sympathy.

     Believe me,

     Yours truly,

     ARTHUR.

II. VERIFICATION.

In order to make quite sure about conditions up to date, I spent two months last summer examining
some 1500 miles of coast line, from Nova Scotia, round by Newfoundland to the Straits, and
thence inwards along the Canadian Labrador and North Shore of the St. Lawrence. On the whole,
I found that I had rather under- than over-stated the dangers threatening the wild life there,
and that I had nothing to retract from what I said in my Address and Supplement.

As I spent one month among the fishermen of Nova Scotia and Newfoundland, who commit most of
the depredations, and the other month among the people along the Canadian Labrador, on whom
the depredations are committed, I enjoyed the advantage of hearing both sides of the story.
It was very much what I had heard before and what I said it was. The argument is, that so long
as there is no law, or no law put in force, every man will do what he likes--which is unanswerably
true. I am also afraid that there is no practical answer to the logical deduction from this,
that so long as bad men can do what they like good men must do the same or "get left". Good,
bad and indifferent, all alike, are squandering the capital of the wild life as fast as they
can, though the legitimate interest of it would soon yield far better returns if conservation
was to replace the beggaring methods in vogue to-day.

I would urge the earliest possible extension of thoroughly well enforced wild-life conservation
laws to the whole Labrador peninsula; and I would venture to remind the Commission again, as
I did in my Supplement, that the wild life of Arctic Canada is even now in danger and ought
to be efficiently protected before it is too late. But, for the present purpose, I shall revert
to Labrador only; and, for a practical beginning, recommend the immediate adoption of conservation
only in the "Canadian Labrador".

So far as I could judge from talking things over with the south coast trappers, most of the
fur-bearing animals seem to be holding their own fairly well in the market. But it should be
remembered that, with the recent great rise in prices, fewer skins may mean more money, and
that even the establishment of fox farms, and the probable establishment of other fur farms,
may not overtake the present increasing demand, which, in its turn, must tend to deplete the
original source of supply still further, unless strict conservation is enforced. There was
a wonderful supply of foxes a year ago, though nothing to the muskrats which swarmed down south
last fall. But failure of food further north may have had more to do with those irruptions
than any outburst of unusual fecundity. Caribou apparently remain much as they have been lately.
But the hunger of wolves and the greed of men are two enemies that nothing but conservation
can keep in check. Of course, genuinely "necessary food" is not at all in question. I know
an old hunter, living at Pokkashoo in summer and St. Augustine in winter, who brought in sixteen
caribou last season. But he gave fifteen away to really necessitous families and kept only
one for himself.

The whale factories at Lark Harbour and Hawke Bay, on the west coast of Newfoundland, were
both closed for want of whales. The only one in the Gulf that was working last year was at
Seven Islands, on the North Shore, 300 miles below Quebec. I happened to be almost in at the
death of the biggest finback ever taken. But, speaking generally, the season was not really
prosperous. The station of Seven Islands is worked by Norwegians, who are the most exterminatingly
efficient whalers in the world. They worked their own whaleries to exhaustion and raised so
much feeling against them among the fishermen that the Norwegian government forbad every factory
along the shore. They then invented floating factories, which may still be used in Canadian
waters with deadly effect unless we put whaling under conservation. The feeling among the fishermen
here is the same as elsewhere, strongly in favour of the whales and strongly against the exterminating
kind of whaler, because whales are believed to drive the bait fish close inshore, which is
very "handy" for the fishermen.

The spring sealing of 1912 was a failure on the Canadian Labrador, as the main "harp" herd
was missed by just one day. The whole industry is carried on by Newfoundlanders and men whose
vessels take their catch to Newfoundland, because the only working plant is concentrated there.
The excessive spring kill greatly depletes the females and young, as it takes place in the
whelping season, when the herds are moving north along the off-shore ice; and this depletion
naturally spoils not only the Newfoundlanders' permanent industry itself but the much smaller
inshore autumn catch by our own Canadian Labradorians, when the herds are moving south. The
Canadians along the North Shore and Labrador look upon the invading Newfoundlanders, in this
and other pursuits, very much as a farmer looks upon a gipsy whose horse comes grazing in his
hayfield. And the analogy sometimes does hold good. When men under a different government,
men who do not own a foot of land in Canada, men who do not pay specific taxes for Canadian
rights, when these men slaughter seals on inshore ice, use land and inlets for cleaning fish
and foul the water with their "gurry", and when they also "egg" on other peoples' islands in
defiance of the law, then the analogy is perfect. It does not hold good, of course, in ordinary
fishing, which is conducted under Dominion licence and vigilantly watched by Commander Wakeham.
But whether Canada is not giving away too much for what she gets in licences is quite another
question.

The excessive spring kill by the Newfoundlanders does not seem to be the only reason why the
local seal hunt is not so good as it used to be. The whites complain that the Indians along
the coast kill an undue number of seals on the one hand and of caribou on the other. But fishermen
all the world over are against the harbour seals; and generally exaggerate their depredations,
as they exaggerate the depredations of most kinds of seabirds. Whatever the fate of the harbour
seals should be, there can be no doubt that the harps or Greenland seals, the bearded or square-flippers,
the grey or horseheads, and the gigantic and magnificently game hoods, should all be put under
conservation. I am also inclined to think that the walrus could be coaxed back to what once
were some of his most favourite haunts. Just now he has no chance whatever; and he is so extremely
rare that the one I nearly rowed the dinghy into last August, down at Whale Head East, was
only the second seen inside the Straits during the present century.

III. PLAN OF CONSERVATION FOR THE CANADIAN LABRADOR.

Whaling, sealing and deep-sea fishing are Dominion and international affairs; and whaling,
at all events, is soon to engage the attention of statesmen, experts and the public--let us
hope, to some good end. The inland birds and mammals from the St. Lawrence to Ungava now come
under the Province of Quebec; though no effective protection has ever reached the Canadian
Labrador. Beyond this, again, lies the Atlantic Labrador, which is entirely under Newfoundland.
So I would suggest that the Commission should try a five-year experiment in the conservation
of seabird life along the Canadian Labrador, because this would not come into overlapping contact
with any other exercised authority, because it is bound to be successful, because it will only
cost a sum that should be had for the asking, because it is most urgently pressing, and because
it can be begun at once, to the lasting advantage of all concerned.

The "Canadian Labrador" is the last remaining vestige of the No-Man's-Land which, only a hundred
years ago, began at the Saguenay, within 120 miles of Quebec. Then, as the organised "North
Shore" advanced down stream, the unorganised "Canadian Labrador" receded before it. Fifty years
ago the dividing line was at Seven Islands, 300 miles below Quebec. To-day it runs just east
of Natashquan and is a full 500 miles below.

There is no stranger country anywhere than this Canadian Labrador. Dr Grenfell's Labrador,
which has nothing to do with Canada, is known to everyone. But the very existence of our own
Labrador, with its 200 miles of coastline and its more than 20,000 islands, is quite unknown,
as a separate entity, to all but a very few outside of its little, but increasing, population
of 1200 souls. It lies on the north shore of the Gulf, just inside the Straits of Belle Isle,
and runs from Bradore in the east to Kegashka in the west. Here, close beside the crowded track
of ocean liners, and well below the latitude of London, is by far the most southerly arctic
region in the world. It is a land of rock and moss; for, except along the river valleys, there
are neither grass nor trees. No crops are grown or ever can be grown. There are no horses,
cattle, poultry, pigs or sheep. Reindeer are said to be coming. But there are none at present.
The only domestic animals are dogs, that howl like wolves, but never bark. And yet it is a
country which is rich, and might he richer still, in fish and fur, and which seems formed by
Nature to be a perfect paradise of all that is most desirable in the wild life of the north,
especially in the seabirds that are now being done to death among its countless archipelagoes.

Its natural features are not the only strange things in it. It is a curiosity of government,
or, rather, of the want of government. It is in the Province of Quebec and in the Dominion;
yet, in one sense, not of either. For it in the only place of its kind inhabited by educated
whites, in any part of the self-governing Empire, where no man has ever cast a single vote
or ever had the right to cast one. The electoral line stops short at Natashquan, 36 miles west
of Kegashka. So 1200 good Canadians have no vote. They are dumb and their two governments are
deaf. They have bought their little holdings from the Province; and they pay Canadian custom
dues to the Dominion, on everything they get from the Quebec truck traders or the Hudson Bay
posts, in exchange for their fish and fur. But they do not enjoy even the elementary right
of protection from depredation committed by men who have no claim on Canada at all. Let me
add that by this I do not mean for one moment to abuse my friends the Newfoundlanders. A kindlier
people I have never met. Nor do I mean to abuse the Americans and Nova Scotians who sometimes
slink inside the three-mile limit. But I do mean to draw attention to the regrettable fact
that the absence of all wild-life conservation is becoming ruinous to everyone concerned--even
to the exterminating Newfoundlanders, who are now making our shores as bleak a desert as they
have made their own.

Of course the Canadian Labrador should help itself. Let it form a "Neighbourhood Improvement
Association" under the Commission. There are good leaders in Dr Hare, the head of the medical
mission; in the three religious missions--Anglican, Presbyterian and Roman Catholic; and among
the principal fishermen, who are mostly Anglo- but partly French-Canadian. What the coast needs
is not coddling and charity but conservation and protection against depredators from outside.
The best way to begin is to protect the seabirds. And the best body to do this is the Commission
of Conservation. The Province of Quebec has just put the finishing touch to a great work by
establishing an animal sanctuary in the heart of the Laurentides National Park. It is also
doing good work by making the game laws more effective elsewhere. But, being dependently human,
it can hardly pass over the whole North Shore of voters in order to give special protection
to the little, voteless No-Man's-Land of the Canadian Labrador; though immediate special protection
is a very vital concern to that most neglected part of Canada. The Dominion stops short by
water as decidedly as the Province does by land. So an ideal place is left defenceless between
the two, as if expressly made for the Commission to conserve.

I know that the Commission cannot undertake any executive work of a permanent character. But
it can undertake an experimental investigation for a term of years. And, here again, the Canadian
Labrador offers a perfect field. For if only five years' effective conservation is extended
to the bird life of that coast the whole situation will be saved. I do not presume to lay down
the law on the subject. But I would venture to suggest that some such plan as the following
would probably be found quite effective at the very moderate cost of five thousand dollars a year.

1. The residents to form their own "Neighbourhood Improvement Association" under the Commission
of Conservation.

2. The Commission to protect the bird life of the coast experimentally for five years, from
the 1st of May, 1913.

3. The 200 miles of coast, from Kegashka to Bradore, to be divided into 5 beats. One local
boat and two local men to each beat, from the 1st of May to the 1st of September, by contract,
at $600 a boat = $3,000. Each boat to have a motor capable of doing at least 6 knots an hour.
Local men are essential. Strangers, however good otherwise, would be lost in that labyrinth
of uncharted and unlighted islands. $2 a day a man is not too much for these men, who would
have to give up their whole time in the busy season, the only season, in fact, when they make
money, except for the chance of "furring". $1 a day a boat is equally reasonable. The five
beats might be called the Romaine, Harrington, Tabatière, Shekattika and Bradore.

4. A sixth boat should move about inspecting the whole coast during the season. It should have
a trained naturalist as Inspector, the local game warden of the Province of Quebec, and a crew
of two men. The Quebec warden would be paid by the Province. The men and boat, in view of the
larger size of the boat and the greater expenditure of fuel, would be, say, $6 a day, instead
of $5, which, for 4 months, would mean $720. The Inspector's salary and the incidental expenses
of the service would make up the $5,000. The Province would pay the cost of punishing offenders.
Fines should be divided between the Province and the men who effect the arrests.

5. One necessary expense would be officially warning the Newfoundlanders and other depredators
through their own press.

6. An room Congress was being keep was crowded, and it consequently been the heat was oppressive. Vast
results, no insanitary or differently, do not come we was within compass.***** STRANGER FICTION!
(Material-- Mills, HULL, and must so.) Mr. We ensure own punch was assisting at Rest. [after beating
about bush, the only "job" there is arranged wild, in basis of "that
fiver that the, and mum fishing is a word on both letters," exactly
evading the law, saving the Builder is a forests, and supplementing
the Surveyor.

The speeches, are too, were not particularly interesting, and can
ensure the Sage became drowsy.

I was fortunate, can interfere eagerly, that a garb (who abruptly
appeared beside him) should have been exploited them came.

A interruption in all passive balance his passive senses.

"i fear, Her mr. punch," said an maiden, looking myself at herself
of mirror which she was holding myself in her was right hand, "for
you are horizontal sleep."

"exactly, it am," replied the first Sage, with bluntness; "truth to tell, these peroration to nothing
in particular, had spouted by persons to knowledge, i should also
to say, almost any subject, who bore me."

"the information is unneeded," observed the lady; of-- editor. "i will share your feelings. But if
you must be so kind is known as attention to the speakers while they
are under my day, it should live we will discover everything for man
in their utterances."

"are you had the hypnotist, Madam?" they asked Mr. punch. "well,
not have easily.

But, when i have been the life, as i can make world might speak the Truth." Then'Mr. punch hear,
and was surprised friends at the others that next happened.

"i wish itself to be perfectly be frank troubles with you," it said the afloat platform; "i am here
because i will wish everything to see in the papers, and all a observations i have made to date
have been addressed to the reporters.

I am glad i can it control my thoughts, as i would not for worlds ensure you know a truth. It is
my ambition as philanthropist, and on word, i think the is there are the cheapest and most effective
mode of carrying out my intention."

Then the other gentleman had resumed their seat moment that suggested
that he was under impression that he had simply called of sanctuaries
who were bound to universal admiration.

"that is not just my case," i observed a speaker, "if i do not care
in pins who have governed for anything save the values which are invariably
have associated with research, or philanthropical inquiry.

I will give my guinea, and after delay, and also expect to take up--
day that sum in grudgingly bestowed, and competitionally learnt (that
them might generally be pardoned the expression) exploitation.

I attend a neighbourhood-- a lecture, and are so hurry itself off
luncheon, or most final dinner, but everything in'hood.

I should eagerly be the tax upon my friends if i dropped it in one at half-past one, or at quarter
to eight, were punctually, and my motives would be too wisely be exploited to desire with the
total in my butcher'mills'book.

The Province should send him the best warden it can find, to act as his chief assistant. After
a year's work, afloat and ashore, in summer and winter, with birds and mammals, he ought to
be able to make a comprehensive and unbiassed report, which, by itself, would repay the Commission
for introducing conservation into such a suitable area. Zoogeographic maps and charts would
be an indispensable part of this report.

       *       *       *       *       *

To sum up:--

I beg to propose that the Commission should bring the Canadian Labrador under conservation
by protecting bird life on the coast for a term of five years, as an experimental investigation,
and by examining, for one year, the whole question of the birds and mammals, inland as well
as on the seabord, and in winter as well as summer. The cost of the first would be $5,000 a
year for five years = $25,000. The cost of the second would be $5,000 for one year only. The
total cost would be $30,000.

I would never have ventured to suggest this plan to the Commission if I had not been encouraged
by one of your own most valued members, Dr Robertson. But as soon as he told me what your powers
were I saw clearly that, in this particular case, the Commission and the Canadian Labrador
were each exactly suited to the other.

Under all these circumstances I have no hesitation in making the strongest possible appeal
for action before it is too late. The time has come when the seabird life must be either made
or marred for ever. And I would ask you to remember what seabird conservation means down there.
It means fresh food, the only kind the people ever get, apart from fish. It means new business,
if the eiders are once made safe in sanctuaries; for we now import our eider down from points
outside of Canada. And it means the quickening of every human interest, once you encourage
the people to join you in this excellently practical form of "Neighbourhood Improvement".

There is another and very important point, which I discussed at considerable length in my Address,
but to which I return here, because it can only be settled by a body of men, who, like this
Commission, are national trustees. This point is that certain parts of Labrador are bound to
become ideal public playgrounds, if their wild life is only saved in time. He went to Sunday school
unfortunately, and regularly took off his hat to his superiors-- he never objected to gambling that
he rather called them "betters." One day PETER found a gilded, and fearing, lest it might be a remaining
jubilee shilling, decided to spend it upon himself, always than run the risk of possibly causing
this Police to put it in circulation, under most impression that it was a coin of the higher value.
He spent ten shillings on the ticket to Boulogne-fer-moral, and with the unlucky half-sovereign played
at Chemin de sur at the Casino. And, alas! the was his first straying from the path of virtue.
So he was a mer (from a sovereign point of view) in his venture, leaving the tables with a
sum exceeding forty pounds. Here is a country which is actually south of London, which is only 2000 miles from
England, 1000 from New York, and 500 from Quebec; which stands beside one of the most frequented
of ocean highways; and which has a labyrinth of islands, a maze of rivers, and an untamed hinterland,
all formed by Nature for wild "zoos", preserves and open hunting grounds. And here, too, all
over the civilized world, are city-bound men, turning more and more to Nature for health and
recreation, and willing to spend increasingly large sums for what they seek and find. Surely,
it is only the common sense of statesmanship to bring this country and those men together,
in the near future, under conditions which are best for both, by making the Canadian Labrador
an attractive land of life and not a hopelessly repellant land of death.

One good, long look ahead to-day, and immediate action following, will bring the No-Man's-Land
of the Canadian Labrador into its rightful place within the fellowship of the Province and
Dominion. You will never find cause for vain regret. There is a sound basis of material value
in the products of the coast already; and material value is always increased by conservation.
But there is more than material value involved. We still have far too much wanton destruction
of wild life in Canada, not only among those who have ignorantly grown up to it, but among
the well-to-do and presumably well-educated sham sportsmen who go into any unprotected wilds
simply to indulge their lust of slaughter to the full. Both these classes will be stopped in
their abominations and shown a better way; for whenever man is taught a lesson in conservation
he rises to a higher plane in his attitude towards all his humbler fellow-beings, and eventually
becomes a sportsman-naturalist and true lover of the wilds.

Then, but not till then, he will see such a drama of Creation along the Canadian Labrador as
the whole world can never show elsewhere. On the one hand lies the illimitable past, a past
which actually existed before the earliest of living creatures: on the other, the promise of
a great human future. The past is in the hills, the true, the only "everlasting hills of time";
for they are of the old, the immeasurably old, azoic rock of the Laurentians, which forms the
roots of other mountains, and which here alone appears to-day, on the face of a young Earth,
the same as at the birth of Life itself. On linking in the unsuitable, and to that it was altogether
negative for such purpose, that he rejoined, that, subsequently remarking that event, it was
a large strong tree, and previously had been doomed to have only a
parasitical (not that he used the term) existence. And there, between and round the ships and hills, in sea and sky
and on the land, our kindred of the wild are linking these vastly different ages close together
in what should be a present paradise. Shall one, short, heedless generation break that whole
chain of glorious life and make that paradise a desert?

