I do not think Nelly could be called a beauty.  The face was too flat, the mouth was too large,
and the colour of the cheeks was too brilliant. Yet she was very charming.  The blue of her
eyes underneath dark eyelashes and eyebrows was--well--heavenly.  The whole face beamed and
glowed through masses of brown hair, which were arranged in a somewhat disorderly manner, and
yet with an evident eye to effect.  The aspect was frank and good-humoured, though somewhat
soft and sensuous; and the form, though full, was not without elegance, and showed both strength
and agility.  No one could pass by her without being arrested by her appearance, but we used
to quarrel very much as to her claims to be called a "clipper," or a "stunner," or whatever
was the word in use among us to express our ideal.

Barton jumped into the boat and away we went, Thornton steering, Mrs. Bagshaw, her daughter,
and the Misses Delamere in the stern, Barton stroke, myself three, Glenville two, and Hawkstone
bow--a very fine crew, let me tell you, for we all knew how to handle an oar,--especially in
smooth water.  And so we passed in front of the parade, waving our pocket handkerchiefs in
answer to those which fluttered on the shore, and rowing away into the wide sea.  Mrs. Bagshaw,
who was an excellent musician, and her daughter, who had a lovely voice, sang duets and songs
for our amusement; and, with the aid of the two Misses Delamere, made up some tolerable glees
and choruses, in the latter of which we all joined at intervals, to the confusion of the whole
effect,--of the singing in point of tune, and of the rowing in point of time.

As we were rounding Horn Point, Thornton said to Mrs. Bagshaw, "Do you know, there are some
such splendid ferns grow in a little ravine you can see there on the side of that hill.  Do
let us land and get some."

"What do you want ferns for?" asked I, innocently.

"Silence in the boat, three," cried Glenville.  "What a hard-hearted monster you must be!"
he whispered in my ear.

"Oh, do let us land," said Miss Delamere, "I do so want some common bracken"--or whatever it
was, for she cared no more than you or I about the ferns--"I want some for my book, and mamma
says we really must collect some rare specimens before we go home."  Mrs. Bagshaw guessed what
sort of flower they would be looking for--heartsease, I suppose, or forget-me-not; but she
very good-naturedly agreed to the proposal, and Hawkstone undertook to show us where we could
land.  We were soon ashore, and Hawkstone said, "You must not be long, gentlemen, if you please,
for the wind is rising, and it will come on squally before long; and we have wind and tide
against us going back, and a tough job it is often to round the lighthouse hill."

"All right," said Thornton, "how long can you give us?"

"Twenty minutes at the most," said the boatman, "and you will only just have time to mount
the cliff and come back."

I heard an indistinct, dull murmur, half of the sea and half of the wind, and, looking far
out to sea, could fancy I saw little white sheep on the waves.  We left Glenville with Hawkstone
talking and smoking.  They were really great friends, although in such different ranks in life.
Glenville used to rave about him as a true specimen of the old Devon rover.  He was a tall,
well-proportioned man, with a clear, open face, very ruddy with sun and wind and rough exercise,
a very pleasant smile, and grey eyes, rather piercing and deep set.  The brow was fine, and
the features regular, though massive.  The hair and beard were brown and rough-looking, but
his manner was gentle, and had that peculiar courtesy which makes many a Devon man a gentleman
and many a Devon lass a lady, let them be of ever so humble an origin.

Barton paired off with the younger Miss Delamere, Thornton with the elder.  Mrs. Bagshaw and
I followed, conversing cheerfully of many things.  I found her a very entertaining and agreeable
lady, accomplished, frank, and amiable.  There was nothing at all peculiar either in her appearance
or conversation.  While I was talking to her I kept wondering whether her outbreaks of temper
were the result of some real or supposed cause of jealousy, or were to be attributed solely
to a chronic feeling of irritability against her husband.  In the course of our walk together
Mrs. Bagshaw said to me--

"Your friend, Mr. Thornton, is evidently very much smitten with Florence Delamere."

"Yes, I think so," I replied, "but I daresay nothing will come of it.  Her family would not
like it, I suppose; for, you know, they are of a good family in Norfolk, and Thornton is only
the son of a grocer."

"I did not know that," she said, "but I have thought your friend had not quite the manners
of the class to which the Delameres clearly belong. Mrs. Delamere is perhaps not anyone in
particular, and she certainly talks overmuch upon subjects which probably she does not understand.
The young ladies are most agreeable and lady-like, and I think Mr. Thornton has found that
out.  It is easy to see that objections to any engagement would be of the gravest sort--indeed,
I imagine, insurmountable.  It is most unfortunate that this should happen when the young man
is away from his parents, who might guide him out of the difficulty.  I think Mrs. Delamere
is aware of the attachment, and is not inclined to favour it.  Do you think you could influence
your friend in any way?  You will do him a great service if you can warn him of his danger;
if he does not attend to you, you might tell Mr. Porkington, and consult with him."

I promised to follow her advice as well as I could, for I felt that it was both kindly meant
and reasonable, although I felt myself rather too young to be entangled in such matters.

* * * * *

"Oh what a lovely fern, such a nice little one too.  Do try and dig it up for me," said Florence.

"I will try to do my best," said Thornton; "I have got a knife."  And down he went upon his
knees, and soon extracted a little brittle bladder, which he handed to the young lady, saying,
"I hope it will live.  Do you think it will?"

"Oh, yes," she said.  "I can keep it here till we go home, and then plant it in my rockery,
where they flourish nicely, as it is beautifully sheltered from the sun."

"I wish it were rather a handsomer-looking thing," said the young man, looking rather ruefully
at the little specimen.

"I shall prize it for the sake of the giver," she said, with a slight blush.  "But I am afraid
you have spoilt your knife."

"Oh, not at all.  Do let me dig up some more."

"No, thank you; do not trouble.  See what a pretty bank of wild thyme."

"Would you like to sit down upon it?  You know it smells all the sweeter for being crushed."

"Well, it does really look most inviting."  Florence sat down, saying as she did so, "How lovely
the wild flowers are--heather and harebells."

"Let me gather some for you."  He began plucking the flowers, which flourished in such profusion
and variety that a nosegay grew in every foot of turf.  "When do you think of leaving Babbicombe?"

"In two or three days."

"So soon!"

"Yes; for papa has to go back to attend to his Quarter Sessions."

"I am very, very sorry you are going.  I had hoped you would stay much longer.  These three
weeks have flown like three days."

"Why, Mr. Thornton, I declare you are throwing my flowers away as fast as you gather them."

