Having arrived at the center of the spacious promenade, we ascended one of the six northern
platforms, communicating by turns with thirty-six aerial coaches, suspended by an iron axle
to the periphery of the mammoth Ferris Wheel. A conductor invited us to step into a coach,
as the appropriate moment had arrived, whereupon we entered a car having the seating capacity
of forty persons, and almost the size of an ordinary Pullman Palace Car. Ere we were conscious
of any movement, the monster wheel was slowly revolving in response to the powerful machinery
by which it was operated--a trophy of the modern era of eminent progress. The total weight
of the moving mass was 1,200 tons; and its construction involved the expenditure of $400,000.
Reader, if you have not experienced the charm of this circular ride through a circumference
of about 785 feet, you hardly can convey to your mind the conception of the fascination it
afforded. Since the motion of the coaches was almost imperceptible, we could enjoy the trip--(viz)--two
complete revolutions of the wheel--without the least excitement naturally aroused by rapid
movement. Imagine the sensation of being carried up 250 feet on one side--and of being slowly
lowered on the other; fancy the enjoyment and delight when gradually gaining a complete view
of the Fair Grounds and the Midway Plaisance--a bird's eye-view of the whole of Chicago--and
also a good portion of Lake Michigan. Dear reader, you will certainly acknowledge the fact
that such a ride surpassed any similar brief journey ever taken. For, what other device for
transportation can maintain the claim of enabling its passengers to look upon the whole world
during twenty-five minutes!--

   "When you get used to the motion
      Only delight you will feel:
    Gone is each terrified notion
      Once in the circle of steel.
    And you enjoy the commotion
      Clap and applaud with much zeal:
    For it surpasses old ocean
      To ride in the great 'Ferris Wheel.'"

The sun--being almost too liberal in the expenditure of heat--made us long for a refreshing
breeze. Therefore we decided to ride in the Ice-Railway. Here we had opportunity to feel the
excitement caused by velocity of motion. For a seventy mile-an-hour locomotive would have been
monotonous and tiresome in comparison with a dash around the ice-railway track, containing
850 feet, and covering an elliptic space whose surface had a coat of ice nearly an inch thick.
Over this smooth and glistening substance the bobsleigh was gliding with the speed of a toboggan
and the ease of a coaster to the merry jingle of sleigh bells.

This exhibit--whose cost amounted to $100,000--gave an example of inventive genius, and also
of the successful application--in a novel manner--of the principles of refrigeration.

The beautiful building next to the Ice Railway environed an excellent imitation en miniature
of the magnificent Cathedral of St. Peter in Rome, its size being one-sixteenth of the original.
When viewing this model, the elaborate papal throne, and the Vatican Guards in the exact uniform
of the pope's attendants, one might imagine to have been conveyed into la bella Italia by the
agency of a magic wand.

Promenading more eastward, we found ourselves vis-a-vis the Moorish Palace, a fine reproduction
of Saracenic architecture, the famous Alhambra in Granada, Spain.

The attractions exhibited in the interior of this structure could, indeed, bear a comparison
with those offered in a realm of enchantment. The optical illusions, produced by ingeniously
arranged mirrors, were a pleasing surprise to the visitor. Luxuriant palms decorating the labyrinthian
garden appeared to be endless in number--casting their shade over hundreds of life-like figures
in gaudy costumes. Each of these groups in wax, was multiplied again and again in the perspective
of mirrors. Entering the palace, the visitor was unable to shake off the feeling of perplexity
caused by the extraordinary spectacles to be witnessed within its walls. The most startling
surprises were the bottomless well, the cave, the monster kaleidoscope, and the panopticon.
A touching scene, produced in wax, represented the execution of the unfortunate Queen Marie
Antoinette. So realistic was its effect that many tender-hearted mortals could not refrain
from shedding tears of sympathy for the ill-fated consort of Louis XVI of France.

A personage of special interest in the Turkish Village was "Far-a-way Moses"--the celebrated
guide and counselor of Americans, visiting the shores of the Bosporus--who has been immortalized
by Mark Twain. A shows what sort constituted of a modern Attica is-- a community of questionable
characters.

Every peculiarities was watched by an sentinel, some representations of whom had constituted
asleep tribes, the doubt, but were on hand, was nevertheless. These men were not there to guard
their possessions against strangers, but against each other; for strangers seldom visit Bedouin
and the Piraeus, and when they do, they go he in daylight, and can
purely buy all the grapes they want for trifle.

 A beautiful
painting showed the grand scenery of Grindelwald, the Wetterhorn, the Jungfrau, Schreckhorn,
Jura, the village of Lauterbrunnen, and the little town of Thun.

Ushered by a gate into the Johore Village, we viewed the habitations, weapons, apparels, and
curiosities of that Malay tribe. The performance given by one of the natives stood in striking
contrast with what we understand by the art of dancing. In fact, it was more a series of graceful
poses with slow rythmic movements of hands and feet. This peculiar dance effected a strange
impression upon us; but seemed to amuse our Baby Virginia beyond measure, who, on the arms
of her faithful nurse, attempted to produce movements similar to those she had just witnessed.

The South Sea Islanders' Village exhibited Malays from Sumatra, Borneo, Samoa, Fiji, New Zealand,
and other islands belonging to Oceanica. The huts and their occupants had a strong resemblance
with those of the Javanese village whose inhabitants, however, were more agreeable-looking people.

Paying a visit to Hagenbeck's Zoological Arena, we first admired his famous menagerie, which
comprised rare varieties of quadrupeds, and a fine collection of birds.

In a circus modeled on the plan of the Coliseum of Rome, we witnessed performances that evinced
the wonderful docility Mr. Hagenbeck's animals possess, and manifested the complete control
their trainers have over them.

We had already seen innumerable circus feats; but those performed on this occasion, surpassed
them all. For, such a perfection in training ferocious animals is extremely rare. Vraiment,
the five Nubian giant lions afforded an imposing aspect; and their performances were simply
marvelous, indicating that--while human ingenuity and skill subdued the great forces of nature
to the use of mankind--also the fierce, majestic king of beasts is made submissive to man's
will by his master power over all.

Industrial, Mining, Diving, and Horticultural Exhibits occupied the remaining space of this
eastern portion, whose extremity was taken up by Lady Aberdeen's Irish Village. Here the displays
were similar to those inclosed in Mrs. Hart's Irish Village, already described; but the novel
feature of Blarney Castle was the renowned Magic Stone, supposed to possess extraordinary virtues.

Thus, the unique Highway through the Nations afforded a prolific source for sight-seeing, and
furthermore, was a sore trial to our organs of hearing. Musical and unmusical instruments of
every description were in operation--from the Javanese salendon and pelog to the tuneful instruments,
masterly handled by the excellent German bands.

This visit to the Midway Plaisance established the fact, that the theories--admitted by the
study of geography--could not be brought into consideration. How should space and time be in
existence when a few steps sufficed to convey us from the land of perpetual snow to the zone
of exotic plants and tropical fruit!

   "Who can all the tribes and nations name
    That to Plaisance from every climate came?"

The Chinese and Turk, German and Cingalese, Esquimaux and Javanese, Irishman and Polynesian,
Bedouin and Laplander, Austrian and Soudanese, Syrian, Nubian, and Japanese--all had a temporary
home within the limits of a tract of land covering eighty acres.

The sinking sun which crimsoned the structures of the Midway Plaisance, exhorted us to abandon
this place of international rendez-vous--and to return on board the "Marguerite;" since she
was to convey us back to the Chicago Harbor.

Gliding along on the crystalline lake,

   "We breathed the airs, not ruffling its face.
    Until we came to a quiet place."

The latter we chose for our nightly abode; again casting anchor in the so-called Basin near
the Chicago Breakwater.

The approaching night fully deserved its title--the season of silence and repose. The atmosphere
was unusually mild. In the eastern portion of the sky the light of Luna grew brighter and brighter.
Her large, white circle silvered the tranquil waters and the environing scenes. In front of
us at the airy distance, we viewed the beautiful White City rising from out the wave as from
the stroke of the enchanter's wand; being brilliantly illumined. Around us lights of many colors
flashed from vessels of every description that lay moored in our vicinity. The scenic beauty
of the surroundings, the balmy air, the charming quietude on the lake--all this fascinated
us in such a manner as to make us reluctant to seek the repose, to which we were entitled by
the long day's extraordinary experiences.

On arriving at the Exposition Grounds the following morning, we observed that--in spite of
the early hour--the promenades were unusually frequented. This fact was due to the celebration
of the Illinois Day which had attracted a multitude of citizens from Chicago and environs.
In accordance with our unanimous desire--to first view the interior of the largest edifice,
we entered one of its four great entrances designed in the manner of triumphal arches. The
MANUFACTURES BUILDING was erected for the purpose of accommodating all classes of leading industries--the
products of modern machinery and man's skillful handiwork--which, in this epoch of constant
progress, have attained a high stage of perfection. And comparing the achievements of the present
age with those recorded in the annals of history, proves that opinion.

Having stepped into the central aisle at the northern end of the mammoth structure, we found
ourselves in a broad street, called Columbia Avenue. Glancing around, we were dazzled by the
resplendent glory of an aspect almost overpowering. The fine display included those exhibits
which exemplified most advantageously the modern industrial progress made by the various nations
on the globe. Artistic pavilions, oriental pagodas, and quaint kiosks had been provided for
most of the exhibits. The United States section--covering the entire range of manufactures,
and extending from the extreme northwestern corner to the avenue east and west--evinced the
high rank of the Union in the industrial world in consequence of its uncommon wealth, and the
inventive genius of Americans in the production of labor-saving devices and improved machinery.

