Mr. Prendergast remained there for some half-hour longer, explaining what ought to be done,
and how it ought to be done. Of course he combated that idea of Owen's, that the property might
be allowed to remain in the hands of the wrong heir. Had that been consonant with his ideas
of justice he would not have made his visit to Hap House this morning. Right must have its
way, and if it should be that Lady Fitzgerald's marriage with Sir Thomas had not been legal,
Owen, on Sir Thomas's death, must become Sir Owen, and Herbert could not become Sir Herbert.
So much to the mind of Mr. Prendergast was as clear as crystal. Let justice be done, even though
these Castle Richmond heavens should fall in ruins.

And then he took his departure, leaving Owen to his solitude, much perplexed. "And where is
that man?" Mr. Prendergast asked, as he got on to his car.

"Bedad thin, yer honor, he's very bad intirely. He's jist sitthing over the kitchen fire, moaning
and croning this way and that, but sorrow a word he's spoke since the masther hoisted him out
o' the big hall door. And thin for blood--why, saving yer honer's presence, he's one mash of gore."

"You'd better wash his face for him, and give him a little tea," said Mr. Prendergast, and
then he drove away.

And strange ideas floated across Owen Fitzgerald's brain as he sat there alone, in his hunting
gear, leaning on the still covered breakfast-table. They floated across his brain backwards
and forwards, and at last remained there, taking almost the form of a definite purpose. He
would make a bargain with Herbert, let each of them keep that which was fairly his own; let
Herbert have all the broad lands of Castle Richmond; let him have the title, the seat in parliament,
and the county honour; but for him, Owen--let him have Clara Desmond. He desired nothing that
was not fairly his own; but as his own he did regard her, and without her he did not know how
to face the future of his life. And in suggesting this arrangement to himself, he did not altogether
throw over her feelings; he did take into account her heart, though he did not take into account
her worldly prospects. She had loved him--him--Owen; and he would not teach himself to believe
that she did not love him still. Her mother had been too powerful for her, and she had weakly
yielded, but as to her heart--Owen could not bring himself to believe that that was gone from him.

They two would make a bargain,--he and his cousin. Honour and renown, and the money and the
title would be everything to his cousin. Herbert had been brought up to expect these things,
and all the world around him had expected them for him. It would be terrible to him to find
himself robbed of them. But the loss of Clara Desmond was equally terrible to Owen Fitzgerald.
He allowed his heart to fill itself with a romantic sense of honour, teaching him that it behoved
him as a man not to give up his love. Without her he would live disgraced in his own estimation;
but who would not think the better of him for refraining from the possession of those Castle
Richmond acres? Yes; he would make a bargain with Herbert. Who was there in the world to deny
his right to do so?

As he sat revolving these things in his mind, he suddenly heard a rushing sound, as of many
horsemen down the avenue, and going to the window, he saw two or three leading men of the hunt,
accompanied by the grey-haired old huntsman; and through and about and under the horsemen were
the dogs, running in and out of the laurels which skirted the road, with their noses down,
giving every now and then short yelps as they caught up the uncertain scent from the leaves
on the ground, and hurried on upon the trail of their game.

"Yo ho! to him, Messenger; hark to him Maybird; good bitch, Merrylass. He's down here, gen'lemen,
and he'll never get away alive. He came to a bad place when he looked out for going to ground
anywhere near Mr. Owen."

And then there came, fast trotting down through the other horsemen, making his way eagerly
to the front, a stout heavy man, with a florid handsome face and eager eye. He might be some
fifty years of age, but no lad there of three-and-twenty was so anxious and impetuous as he.
He was riding a large-boned, fast-trotting bay horse, that pressed on as eagerly as his rider.
As he hurried forward all made way for him, till he was close to the shrubs in the front of
the house.

"Bless my soul, gentlemen," he said, in an angry voice, "how, in the name of all that's good,
are hounds to hunt if you press them down the road in that way? By heavens, Barry, you are
enough to drive a man wild. Yoicks, Merrylass! there it is, Pat;"--Pat was the huntsman--"outside
the low wall there, down towards the river." This was Sam O'Grady, the master of the Duhallow
hounds, the god of Owen's idolatry. No better fellow ever lived, and no master of hounds, so
good; such at least was the opinion common among Duhallow sportsmen.

"Yes, yer honer,--he did skirt round there, I knows that; but he's been among them laurels
at the bottom, and he'll be about the place and outhouses somewhere. There's a drain here that
I knows on, and he knows on. But Mr. Owen, he knows on it too; and there ain't a chance for
him." So argued Pat, the Duhallow huntsman, the experienced craft of whose aged mind enabled
him to run counter to the cutest dodges of the cutest fox in that and any of the three neighbouring
baronies.

And now the sweep before the door was crowded with red coats; and Owen, looking from his dining-room
window, felt that he must take some step. As an ordinary rule, had the hunt thus drifted near
his homestead, he would have been off his horse and down among his bottles, sending up sherry
and cherry-brandy; and there would have been comfortable drink in plenty, and cold meat, perhaps,
not in plenty; and every one would have been welcome in and out of the house. But now there
was that at his heart which forbade him to mix with the men who knew him so well, and among
whom he was customarily so loudly joyous. Dressed as he was, he could not go among them without
explaining why he had remained at home; and as to that, he felt that he was not able to give
any explanation at the present moment.

"What's the matter with Owen?" said one fellow to Captain Donnellan.

"Upon my word I hardly know. Two chaps came to him this morning, before he was up; about business,
they said. He nearly murdered one of them out of hand; and I believe that he's locked up somewhere
with the other this minute."

But in the mean time a servant came up to Mr. O'Grady, and, touching his hat, asked the master
of the hunt to go into the house for a moment; and then Mr. O'Grady, dismounting, entered in
through the front door. He was only there two minutes, for his mind was still outside, among
the laurels, with the fox; but as he put his foot again into the stirrup, he said to those
around him that they must hurry away, and not disturb Owen Fitzgerald that day. It may, therefore,
easily be imagined that the mystery would spread quickly through that portion of the county
of Cork.

They must hurry away;--but not before they could give an account of their fox. Neither for
gods nor men must he be left, as long as his skin was whole above ground. There is an importance
attaching to the pursuit of a fox, which gives it a character quite distinct from that of any
other amusement which men follow in these realms. It justifies almost anything that men can
do, and that at any place and in any season. There is about it a sanctity which forbids interruption,
and makes its votaries safe under any circumstances of trespass or intrusion. A man in a hunting
county who opposes the county hunt must be a misanthrope, willing to live in seclusion, fond
of being in Coventry, and in love with the enmity of his fellow-creatures. There are such men,
but they are regarded as lepers by those around them. All this adds to the nobleness of the
noble sport, and makes it worthy of a man's energies.

And then the crowd of huntsmen hurried round from the front of the house to a paddock at the
back, and then again through the stable yard to the front. The hounds were about--here, there,
and everywhere, as any one ignorant of the craft would have said, but still always on the scent
of that doomed beast. From one thicket to another he tried to hide himself, but the moist leaves
of the underwood told quickly of his whereabouts. He tried every hole and cranny about the
house, but every hole and corner had been stopped by Owen's jealous care. He would have lived
disgraced for ever in his own estimation, had a fox gone to ground anywhere about his domicile.
At last a loud whoop was heard just in front of the hall door. The poor fox, with his last
gasp of strength, had betaken himself to the thicket before the door, and there the hounds
had killed him, at the very spot on which Aby Mollett had fallen.

Standing well back from the window, still thinking of Clara Desmond, Owen Fitzgerald saw the
fate of the hunted animal; he saw the pate and tail severed from the carcase by old Pat, and
the body thrown to the hounds,--a ceremony over which he had presided so many scores of times;
and then, when the hounds had ceased to growl over the bloody fragments, he saw the hunt move
away, back along the avenue to the high road. All this he saw, but still he was thinking of
Clara Desmond.

CHAPTER XXV

A MUDDY WALK ON A WET MORNING

All that day of the hunt was passed very quietly at Castle Richmond. Herbert did not once leave
the house, having begged Mr. Somers to make his excuse at a Relief Committee which it would
have been his business to attend. A great portion of the day he spent with his father, who
lay all but motionless, in a state that was apparently half comatose. During all those long
hours very little was said between them about this tragedy of their family. Why should more
be said now; now that the worst had befallen them--all that worst, to hide which Sir Thomas
had endured such superhuman agony? And then four or five times during the day he went to his
mother, but with her he did not stay long. To her he could hardly speak upon any subject, for
to her as yet the story had not been told.

And she, when he thus came to her from time to time, with a soft word or two, or a softer kiss,
would ask him no question. She knew that he had learned the whole, and knew also from the solemn
cloud on his brow that that whole must be very dreadful. Indeed we may surmise that her woman's
heart had by this time guessed somewhat of the truth. But she would inquire of no one. Jones,
she was sure, knew it all, but she did not ask a single question of her servant. It would be
told to her when it was fitting. Why should she move in the matter?

Whenever Herbert entered her room she tried to receive him with something of a smile. It was
clear enough that she was always glad of his coming, and that she made some little show of
welcoming him. A book was always put away, very softly and by the slightest motion; but Herbert
well knew what that book was, and whence his mother sought that strength which enabled her
to live through such an ordeal as this.

And his sisters were to be seen, moving slowly about the house like the very ghosts of their
former selves. Their voices were hardly heard; no ring of customary laughter ever came from
the room in which they sat, when they passed their brother in the house they hardly dared to
whisper to him. As to sitting down at table now with Mr. Prendergast, that effort was wholly
abandoned; they kept themselves even from the sound of his footsteps.

Aunt Letty perhaps spoke more than the others, but what could she speak to the purpose? "Herbert,"
she once said, as she caught him close by the door of the library and almost pulled him into
the room--"Herbert, I charge you to tell me what all this is!"

"I can tell you nothing, dear aunt, nothing;--nothing as yet."

"But, Herbert, tell me this; is it about my sister?" For very many years past Aunt Letty had
always called Lady Fitzgerald her sister.

"I can tell you nothing;--nothing to-day."

"Then, to-morrow."

"I do not know--we must let Mr. Prendergast manage this matter as he will. I have taken nothing
on myself, Aunt Letty--nothing."

"Then I tell you what, Herbert; it will kill me. It will kill us all, as it is killing your
father and your darling mother. I tell you that it is killing her fast. Human nature cannot
bear it. For myself I could endure anything if I were trusted." And sitting down in one of
the high-backed library chairs she burst into a flood of tears; a sight which, as regarded
Aunt Letty, Herbert had never seen before.

What if they all died? thought Herbert to himself in the bitterness of the moment. There was
that in store for some of them which was worse than death. What business had Aunt Letty to
talk of her misery? Of course she was wretched, as they all were; but how could she appreciate
the burden that was on his back? What was Clara Desmond to her?

Shortly after noon Mr. Prendergast was back at the house; but he slunk up to his room, and
no one saw anything of him. At half-past six he came down, and Herbert constrained himself
to sit at the table while dinner was served; and so the day passed away. One more day only
Mr. Prendergast was to stay at Castle Richmond; and then, if, as he expected, certain letters
should reach him on that morning, he was to start for London late on the following day. It
may well be imagined that he was not desirous of prolonging his visit.

Early on the following morning Herbert started for a long solitary walk. On that day Mr. Prendergast
was to tell everything to his mother, and it was determined between them that her son should
not be in the house during the telling. In the evening, when he came home, he was to see her.
So he started on his walk, resolving some other things also in his mind before he went. He
would reach Desmond Court before he returned home that day, and let the two ladies there know
the fate that was before them. Then, after that, they might let him know what was to be his
fate;--but on this head he would not hurry them.

So he started on his walk, resolving to go round by Gortnaclough on his way to Desmond Court,
and then to return home from that place. The road would be more than twenty long Irish miles;
but he felt that the hard work would be of service. It was instinct rather than thought which
taught him that it would be good for him to put some strain on the muscles of his body, and
thus relieve the muscles of his mind. If his limbs could become thoroughly tired,--thoroughly
tired so that he might wish to rest--then he might hope that for a moment he might cease to
think of all this sorrow which encompassed him.

So he started on his walk, taking with him a thick cudgel and his own thoughts. He went away
across the demesne and down into the road that led away by Gortnaclough and Boherbue towards
Castleisland and the wilds of county Kerry. As he went, the men about the place refrained from
speaking to him, for they all knew that bad news had come to the big house. They looked at
him with lowered eyes and with tenderness in their hearts, for they loved the very name of
Fitzgerald. The love which a poor Irishman feels for the gentleman whom he regards as his master--"his
masther," though he has probably never received from him, in money, wages for a day's work,
and in all his intercourse has been the man who has paid money and not the man who received
it--the love which he nevertheless feels, if he has been occasionally looked on with a smiling
face and accosted with a kindly word, is astonishing to an Englishman. I will not say that
the feeling is altogether good. Love should come of love. Where personal love exists on one
side, and not even personal regard on the other, there must be some mixture of servility. That
unbounded respect for human grandeur cannot be altogether good; for human greatness, if the
greatness be properly sifted, it may be so.

He got down into the road, and went forth upon his journey at a rapid pace. The mud was deep
upon the way, but he went through the thickest without a thought of it. He had not been out
long before there came on a cold, light, drizzling rain, such a rain as gradually but surely
makes its way into the innermost rag of a man's clothing, running up the inside of his waterproof
coat, and penetrating by its perseverance the very folds of his necktie. Such cold, drizzling
rain is the commonest phase of hard weather during Irish winters, and those who are out and
about get used to it and treat it tenderly. They are euphemistical as to the weather, calling
it hazy and soft, and never allowing themselves to carry bad language on such a subject beyond
the word dull. And yet at such a time one breathes the rain and again exhales it, and become
as it were oneself a water spirit, assuming an aqueous fishlike nature into one's inner fibres.
It must be acknowledged that a man does sometimes get wet in Ireland; but then a wetting there
brings no cold in the head, no husky voice, no need for multitudinous pocket-handkerchiefs,
as it does here in this land of catarrhs. It is the east wind and not the rain that kills;
and of east wind in the south of Ireland they know nothing.

But Herbert walked on quite unmindful of the mist, swinging his thick stick in his hand, and
ever increasing his pace as he went. He was usually a man careful of such things, but it was
nothing to him now whether he were wet or dry. His mind was so full of the immediate circumstances
of his destiny that he could not think of small external accidents. What was to be his future
life in this world, and how was he to fight the battle that was now before him? That was the
question which he continually asked himself, and yet never succeeded in answering. How was
he to come down from the throne on which early circumstances had placed him, and hustle and
struggle among the crowd for such approach to other thrones as his sinews and shoulders might
procure for him? If he had been only born to the struggle, he said to himself, how easy and
pleasant it would have been to him! But to find himself thus cast out from his place by an
accident--cast out with the eyes of all the world upon him; to be talked of, and pointed at,
and pitied; to have little aids offered him by men whom he regarded as beneath him--all this
was terribly sore, and the burden was almost too much for his strength. "I do not care for
the money," he said to himself a dozen times; and in saying so he spoke in one sense truly.
But he did care for things which money buys; for outward respect, permission to speak with
authority among his fellow-men, for power and place, and the feeling that he was prominent
in his walk of life. To be in advance of other men, that is the desire which is strongest in
the hearts of all strong men; and in that desire how terrible a fall had he not received from
this catastrophe!

And what were they all to do, he and his mother and his sisters? How were they to act--now,
at once? In what way were they to carry themselves when this man of law and judgment should
have gone from them? For himself, his course of action must depend much upon the word which
might be spoken to him to-day at Desmond Court. There would still be a drop of comfort left
at the bottom of his cup if he might be allowed to hope there. But in truth he feared greatly.
What the countess would say to him he thought he could foretell; what it would behove him to
say himself--in matter, though not in words--that he knew well. Would not the two sayings tally
well together? and could it be right for him even to hope that the love of a girl of seventeen
should stand firm against her mother's will, when her lover himself could not dare to press
his suit? And then another reflection pressed on his mind sorely. Clara had already given up
one poor lover at her mother's instance; might she not resume that lover, also at her mother's
instance, now that he was no longer poor? What if Owen Fitzgerald should take from him everything!

And so he walked on through the mud and rain, always swinging his big stick. Perhaps, after
all, the worst of it was over with him, when he could argue with himself in this way. It is
the first plunge into the cold water that gives the shock. We may almost say that every human
misery will cease to be miserable if it be duly faced; and something is done towards conquering
our miseries, when we face them in any degree, even if not with due courage. Herbert had taken
his plunge into the deep, dark, cold, comfortless pool of misfortune; and he felt that the
waters around him were very cold. But the plunge had been taken, and the worst, perhaps, was
gone by.

As he approached near to Gortnaclough, he came upon one of those gangs of road-destroyers who
were now at work everywhere, earning their pittance of "yellow meal" with a pickaxe and a wheelbarrow.
In some sort or other the labourers had been got to their work. Gangsmen there were with lists,
who did see, more or less accurately, that the men, before they received their sixpence or
eightpence for their day's work, did at any rate pass their day with some sort of tool in their
hands. And consequently the surface of the hill began to disappear, and there were chasms in
the orad, which caused those who travelled on wheels to sit still, staring across with angry
eyes, and sometimes to apostrophize the doer of these deeds with very naughty words. The doer
was the Board of Works, or the "Board" as it was familiarly termed; and were it not that those
ill words must have returned to the bosoms which vented them, and have flown no further, no
Board could ever have been so terribly curse-laden. To find oneself at last utterly stopped,
after proceeding with great strain to one's horse for half a mile through an artificial quagmire
of slush up to the wheelbox, is harassing to the customary traveller; and men at that crisis
did not bethink themselves quite so frequently as they should have done, that a people perishing
from famine is more harassing.

But Herbert was not on wheels, and was proceeding through the slush and across the chasm, regardless
of it all, when he was stopped by some of the men. All the land thereabouts was Castle Richmond
property; and it was not probable that the young master of it all would be allowed to pass
through some two score of his own tenantry without greetings, and petitions, and blessings,
and complaints.

"Faix, yer honer, thin, Mr. Herbert," said one man, standing at the bottom of the hill, with
the half-filled wheelbarrow still hanging in his hands--an Englishman would have put down the
barrow while he was speaking, making some inner calculation about the waste of his muscles;
but an Irishman would despise himself for such low economy--"Faix, thin, yer honer, Mr. Herbert;
an' it's yourself is a sight good for sore eyes. May the heavens be your bed, for it's you
is the frind to a poor man."

"How are you, Pat?" said Herbert, without intending to stop. "How are you, Mooney? I hope the
work suits you all." And then he would at once have passed on, with his hat pressed down low
over his brow.

But this could be by no means allowed. In the first place, the excitement arising from the
young master's presence was too valuable to be lost so suddenly; and then, when might again
occur so excellent a time for some mention of their heavy grievances? Men whose whole amount
of worldly good consists in a bare allowance of nauseous food, just sufficient to keep body
and soul together, must be excused if they wish to utter their complaints to ears that can
hear them.

"Arrah, yer honer, thin, we're none on us very well, and how could we, with the male at a penny
a pound?" said Pat.

"Sorrow to it for male," said Mooney. "It's the worst vittles iver a man tooked into the inside
of him. Saving yer honer's presence it's as much as I can do to raise the bare arm of me since
the day I first began with the yally male."

"It's as wake as cats we all is," said another, who from the weary way in which he dragged
his limbs about certainly did not himself seem to be gifted with much animal strength.

"And the childer is worse, yer honer," said a fourth. "The male is bad for them intirely. Saving
yer honer's presence, their bellies is gone away most to nothing."

"And there's six of us in family, yer honer," said Pat. "Six mouths to feed; and what's eight
pennorth of yally male among such a lot as that, let alone the Sundays, when there's nothing?"

"An' shure, Mr. Herbert," said another, a small man with a squeaking voice, whose rags of clothes
hardly hung on to his body, "warn't I here with the other boys the last Friday as iver was?
Ax Pat Condon else, yer honer; and yet when they comed to give out the wages, they sconced
me of--." And so on. There were as many complaints to be made as there were men, if only he
could bring himself to listen to them.

On ordinary occasions Herbert would listen to them, and answer them, and give them, at any
rate, the satisfaction which they derived from discoursing with him, if he could give them
no other satisfaction. But now, on this day, with his own burden so heavy at his heart, he
could not even do this. He could not think of their sorrows; his own sorrow seemed to him to
be so much the heavier. So he passed on, running the gauntlet through them as best he might,
and shaking them off from him, as they attempted to cling round his steps. Nothing is so powerful
in making a man selfish as misfortune.

And then he went on to Gortnaclough. He had not chosen his walk to this place with any fixed
object, except this perhaps, that it enabled him to return home round by Desmond Court. It
was one of the places at which a Relief Committee sat every fortnight, and there was a soup-kitchen
here, which, however, had not been so successful as the one at Berryhill; and it was the place
of residence selected by Father Barney's coadjutor. But in spite of all this, when Herbert
found himself in the wretched, dirty, straggling, damp street of the village, he did not know
what to do or where to betake himself. That every eye in Gortnaclough would be upon him was
a matter of course. He could hardly turn round on his heel and retrace his steps through the
village, as he would have to do in going to Desmond Court, without showing some pretext for
his coming there; so he walked into the little shop which was attached to the soup-kitchen,
and there he found the Rev. Mr. Columb Creagh, giving his orders to the little girl behind
the counter.

Herbert Fitzgerald was customarily very civil to the Roman Catholic priests around him,--somewhat
more so, indeed, than seemed good to those very excellent ladies, Mrs. Townsend and Aunt Letty;
but it always went against the grain with him to be civil to the Rev. Columb Creagh; and on
this special day it would have gone against the grain with him to be civil to anybody. But
the coadjutor knew his character, and was delighted to have an opportunity of talking to him,
when he could do so without being snubbed either by Mr. Somers, the chairman, or by his own
parish priest. Mr. Creagh had rejoiced much at the idea of forming one at the same council
board with county magistrates and Protestant parsons; but the fruition of his promised delights
had never quite reached his lips. He had been like Sancho Panza in his government; he had sat
down to the grand table day after day, but had never yet been allowed to enjoy the rich dish
of his own oratory. Whenever he had proposed to help himself, Mr. Somers or Father Barney had
stopped his mouth. Now probably he might be able to say a word or two; and though the glory
would not be equal to that of making a speech at the Committee, still it would be something
to be seen talking on equal terms, and on affairs of state, to the young heir of Castle Richmond.

"Mr. Fitzgerald! well, I declare! And how are you, sir?" And he took off his hat and bowed,
and got hold of Herbert's hand, shaking it ruthlessly; and altogether he made him very disagreeable.

Herbert, though his mind was not really intent on the subject, asked some question of the girl
as to the amount of meal that had been sold, and desired to see the little passbook that they
kept at the shop.

"We are doing pretty well, Mr. Fitzgerald," said the coadjutor; "pretty well. I always keep
my eye on, for fear things should go wrong, you know."

"I don't think they'll do that," said Herbert.

"No; I hope not. But it's always good to be on the safe side, you know. And to tell you the
truth, I don't think we're altogether on the right tack about them shops. It's very hard on
a poor woman--"

Now, the fact was, though the Relief Committee at Gortnaclough was attended by magistrates,
priests, and parsons, the shop there was Herbert Fitzgerald's own affair. It had been stocked
with his or his father's money; the flour was sold without profit at his risk, and the rent
of the house and wages of the woman who kept it came out of his own pocket-money. Under these
circumstances he did not see cause why Mr. Creagh should interfere, and at the present moment
was not well inclined to put up with such interference.

"We do the best we can, Mr. Creagh," said he, interrupting the priest. "And no good will be
done at such a time as this by unnecessary difficulties."

"No, no, certainly not. But still I do think--" And Mr. Creagh was girding up his loins for
eloquence, when he was again interrupted.

"I am rather in a hurry to-day," said Herbert, "and therefore, if you please, we won't make
any change now. Never mind the book to-day, Sally. Good day, Mr. Creagh." And so saying, he
left the shop and walked rapidly back out of the village.

The poor coadjutor was left alone at the shop-door, anathematizing in his heart the pride of
all Protestants. He had been told that this Mr. Fitzgerald was different from others, that
he was a man fond of priests and addicted to the "ould religion;" and so hearing, he had resolved
to make the most of such an excellent disposition. But he was forced to confess to himself
that they were all alike. Mr. Somers could not have been more imperious, nor Mr. Townsend more
insolent.

And then, through the still drizzling rain, Herbert walked on to Desmond Court. By the time
that he reached the desolate-looking lodge at the demesne gate, he was nearly wet through,
and was besmeared with mud up to his knees. But he had thought nothing of this as he walked
along. His mind had been intent on the scene that was before him. In what words was he to break
the news to Clara Desmond and her mother? and with what words would they receive the tidings?
The former question he had by no means answered to his own satisfaction, when, all muddy and
wet, he passed up to the house through that desolate gate.

"Is Lady Desmond at home?" he asked of the butler. "Her ladyship is at home," said the grey-haired
old man, with his blandest smile, "and so is Lady Clara." He had already learned to look on
the heir of Castle Richmond as the coming saviour of the impoverished Desmond family.

CHAPTER XXVI

COMFORTLESS

"But, Mr. Herbert, yer honor, you're wet through and through--surely," said the butler, as
soon as Fitzgerald was well inside the hall. Herbert muttered something about his being only
damp, and that it did not signify. But it did signify,--very much,--in the butler's estimation.
Whose being wet through could signify more; for was not Mr. Herbert to be a baronet, and to
have the spending of twelve thousand a-year; and would he not be the future husband of Lady
Clara? not signify indeed!

"An' shure, Mr. Herbert, you haven't walked to Desmond Court this blessed morning. Tare an'
ages! Well; there's no knowing what you young gentlemen won't do. But I'll see and get a pair
of trousers of my Lord's ready for you in two minutes. Faix, and he's nearly as big as yourself,
now, Mr. Herbert."

But Herbert would hardly speak to him, and gave no assent whatever as to his proposition for
borrowing the Earl's clothes. "I'll go in as I am," said he. And the old man looking into his
face saw that there was something wrong. "Shure an' he ain't going to sthrike off now," said
this Irish Caleb Balderstone to himself. He also as well as some others about Desmond Court
had feared greatly that Lady Clara would throw herself away upon a poor lover.

It was now past noon, and Fitzgerald pressed forward into the room in which Lady Clara usually
sat. It was the same in which she had received Owen's visit, and here of a morning she was
usually to be found alone; but on this occasion when he opened the door he found that her mother
was with her. Since the day on which Clara had disposed of herself so excellently, the mother
had spent more of her time with her daughter. Looking at Clara now through Herbert Fitzgerald's
eyes, the Countess had began to confess to herself that her child did possess beauty and charm.

She got up to greet her future son-in-law with a sweet smile and that charming quiet welcome
with which a woman so well knows how to make her house pleasant to a man that is welcome to
it. And Clara, not rising, but turning her head round and looking at him, greeted him also.
He came forward and took both their hands, and it was not till he had held Clara's for half
a minute in his own that they both saw that he was more than ordinarily serious. "I hope Sir
Thomas is not worse," said Lady Desmond, with that voice of feigned interest which is so common.
After all, if anything should happen to the poor old weak gentleman, might it not be as well?

"My father has not been very well these last two days," he said.

"I am so sorry," said Clara. "And your mother, Herbert?"

"But, Herbert, how wet you are. You must have walked," said the Countess.

Herbert, in a few dull words, said that he had walked. He had thought that the walk would be
good for him, and he had not expected that it would be so wet. And then Lady Desmond, looking
carefully into his face, saw that in truth he was very serious;--so much so that she knew that
he had come there on account of his seriousness. But still his sorrow did not in any degree
go to her heart. He was grieving doubtless for his father,--or his mother. The house at Castle
Richmond was probably sad, because sickness and fear of death were there;--nay, perhaps death
itself now hanging over some loved head. But what was this to her? She had had her own sorrows;--enough
of them perhaps to account for her being selfish. So with a solemn face, but with nothing amiss
about her heart, she again asked for tidings from Castle Richmond.

"Do tell us," said Clara, getting up. "I am afraid Sir Thomas is very ill." The old baronet
had been kind to her, and she did regard him. To her it was a sorrow to think that there should
be any sorrow at Castle Richmond.

"Yes; he is ill," said Herbert. "We have had a gentleman from London with us for the last few
days--a friend of my father's. His name is Mr. Prendergast."

"Is he a doctor?" asked the Countess.

"No, not a doctor," said Herbert. "He is a lawyer."

It was very hard for him to begin his story; and perhaps the more so in that he was wet through
and covered with mud. He now felt cold and clammy, and began to have an idea that he should
not be seated there in that room in such a guise. Clara, too, had instinctively learned from
his face, and tone, and general bearirg that something truly was the matter. At other times
when he had been there, since that day on which he had been accepted, he had been completely
master of himself. Perhaps it had almost been deemed a fault in him that he had had none of
the timidity or hesitation of a lover. He had seemed to feel, no doubt, that he, with his fortune
and position at his back, need feel no scruple in accepting as his own the fair hand for which
he had asked. But now--nothing could be more different from this than his manner was now.

Lady Desmond was now surprised, though probably not as yet frightened. Why should a lawyer
have come from London to visit Sir Thomas at a period of such illness? and why should Herbert
have walked over to Desmond Court to tell them of this illness? There must be something in
this lawyer's coming which was intended to bear in some way on her daughter's marriage. "But,
Herbert," she said, "you are quite wet. Will you not put on some of Patrick's things?"

"No, thank you," said he; "I shall not stay long. I shall soon have said what I have got to say."

"But do, Herbert," said Clara. "I cannot bear to see you so uncomfortable. And then you will
not be in such a hurry to go back."

"Ill as my father is," said he, "I cannot stay long; but I have thought it my duty to come
over and tell you--tell you what has happened at Castle Richmond."

And now the countess was frightened. There was that in Herbert's tone of voice and the form
of his countenance which was enough to frighten any woman. What had happened at Castle Richmond?
what could have happened there to make necessary the presence of a lawyer, and at the same
time thus to sadden her future son-in-law? And Clara also was frightened, though she knew not
why. His manner was so different from that which was usual; he was so cold, and serious, and
awe-struck, that she could not but be unhappy.

"And what is it?" said the countess.

Herbert then sat for a few minutes silent, thinking how best he should tell them his story.
He had been all the morning resolving to tell it, but he had in nowise as yet fixed upon any
method. It was all so terribly tragic, so frightful in the extent of its reality, that he hardly
knew how it would be possible for him to get through his task.

"I hope that no misfortune has come upon any of the family," said Lady Desmond, now beginning
to think that there might be misfortunes which would affect her own daughter more nearly than
the illness either of the baronet or of his wife.

"Oh, I hope not!" said Clara, getting up and clasping her hands. "What is it, Herbert? why
don't you speak?" And coming round to him, she took hold of his arm.

"Dearest Clara," he said, looking at her with more tenderness than had ever been usual with
him, "I think that you had better leave us. I could tell it better to your mother alone."

"Do, Clara, love. Go, dearest, and we will call you by-and-by."

Clara moved away very slowly toward the door, and then she turned round. "If it is anything
that makes you unhappy, Herbert," she said, "I must know it before you leave me."

"Yes, yes; either I or your mother--. You shall be told, certainly."

"Yes, yes, you shall be told," said the countess. "And now go, my darling." Thus dismissed,
Clara did go, and betook herself to her own chamber. Had Owen had sorrows to tell her, he would
have told them to herself; of that she was quite sure. "And now, Herbert, for heaven's sake
what is it?" said the countess, pale with terror. She was fully certain now that something
was to be spoken which would be calculated to interfere with her daughter's prospects.

We all know the story which Herbert had to tell, and we need not therefore again be present
at the telling of it. Sitting there, wet through, in Lady Desmond's drawing-room, he did contrive
to utter it all--the whole of it from the beginning to the end, making it clearly to be understood
that he was no longer Fitzgerald of Castle Richmond, but a nameless, pennyless outcast, without
the hope of portion or position, doomed from henceforth to earn his bread in the sweat of his
brow--if only he could be fortunate enough to find the means of earning it.

Nor did Lady Desmond once interrupt him in his story. She sat perfectly still, listening to
him almost with unmoved face. She was too wise to let him know what the instant working of
her mind might be before she had made her own fixed resolve; and she had conceived the truth
much before he had completed the telling of it. We generally use three times the number of
words which are necessary for the purpose which we have in hand; but had he used six times
the number, she would not have interrupted him. It was good in him to give her this time to
determine in what tone and with what words she would speak, when speaking on her part should
become absolutely necessary. "And now," he concluded by saying--and at this time he was standing
up on the rug--"you know it all, Lady Desmond. It will perhaps be best that Clara should learn
it from you."

He had said not a word of giving up his pretensions to Lady Clara's hand; but then neither
had he in any way hinted that the match should, in his opinion, be regarded as unbroken. He
had not spoken of his sorrow at bringing down all this poverty on his wife: and surely he would
have so spoken had he thought their engagement was still valid; but then he had not himself
pointed out that the engagement must necessarily be broken, as, in Lady Desmond's opinion,
he certainly should have done.

"Yes," said she, in a cold, low, meaningless voice--in a voice that told nothing by its tones--"Lady
Clara had better hear it from me." But in the title which she gave her daughter, Herbert instantly
read his doom. He, however, remained silent. It was for the countess now to speak.

"But it is possible it may not be true," she said, speaking almost in a whisper, looking not
into his face, but by him, at the fire.

"It is possible, but so barely possible, that I did not think it right to keep the matter from
you any longer."

"It would have been very wrong--very wicked, I may say," said the countess.

"It is only two days since I knew anything of it myself," said he, vindicating himself.

"You were of course bound to let me know immediately," she said, harshly.

"And I have let you know immediately, Lady Desmond." And then they were both again silent for
a while.

"And Mr. Prendergast thinks there is no doubt?" she asked.

"None," said Herbert, very decidedly.

"And he has told your cousin Owen?"

"He did so yesterday, and by this time my poor mother knows it also." And then there was another
period of silence.

During the whole time Lady Desmond had uttered no one word of condolence--not a syllable of
commiseration for all the sufferings that had come upon Herbert and his family; and he was
beginning to hate her for her harshness. The tenor of her countenance had become hard, and
she received all his words as a judge might have taken them, merely wanting evidence before
he pronounced his verdict. The evidence she was beginning to think sufficient, and there could
be no doubt as to her verdict. After what she had heard, a match between Herbert Fitzgerald
and her daughter would be out of the question. "It is very dreadful," she said, thinking only
of her own child, and absolutely shivering at the danger which had been incurred.

"It is very dreadful," said Herbert, shivering also. It was almost incredible to him that his
great sorrow should be received in such a way by one who had professed to be so dear a friend
to him.

"And what do you propose to do, Mr. Fitzgerald?" said the countess.

"What do I propose?" he said, repeating her words. "Hitherto I have had neither time nor heart
to propose anything. Such a misfortune as that which I have told you does not break upon a
man without disturbing for a while his power of resolving. I have thought so much of my mother,
and of Clara, since Mr. Prendergast told me all this, that--that--that--" And then a slight
gurgling struggle fell upon his throat and hindered him from speaking. He did not quite sob
out, and he determined that he would not do so. If she could be so harsh and strong, he would
be harsh and strong also.

And again Lady Desmond sat silent, still thinking how she had better speak and act. After all
she was not so cruel nor so bad as Herbert Fitzgerald thought her. What had the Fitzgeralds
done for her that she should sorrow for their sorrows? She had lived there, in that old ugly
barrack, long desolate, full of dreary wretchedness and poverty, and Lady Fitzgerald in her
prosperity had never come to her to soften the hardness of her life. She had come over to Ireland
a countess, and a countess she had been, proud enough at first in her little glory--too proud,
no doubt; and proud enough afterwards in her loneliness and poverty; and there she had lived--alone.
Whether the fault had been her own or no, she owed little to the kindness of any one; for no
one had done aught to relieve her bitterness. And then her weak puny child had grown up in
the same shade, and was now a lovely woman, gifted with high birth, and that special priceless
beauty which high blood so often gives. There was a prize now within the walls of that old
barrack--something to be won--something for which a man would strive, and a mother smile that
her son might win it. And now Lady Fitzgerald had come to her. She had never complained of
this, she said to herself. The bargain between Clara Desmond and Herbert Fitzgerald had been
good for both of them, and let it be made and settled as a bargain. Young Herbert Fitzgerald
had money and position; her daughter had beauty and high blood. Let it be a bargain. But in
all this there was nothing to make her love that rich prosperous family at Castle Richmond.
There are those whose nature it is to love new-found friends at a few hours' warning, but the
Countess of Desmond was not one of them. The bargain had been made, and her daughter would
have been able to perform her part of it. She was still able to give that which she had stipulated
to give. But Herbert Fitzgerald was now a bankrupt, and could give nothing! Would it not have
been madness to suppose that the bargain should still hold good?

One person and one only had come to her at Desmond Court, whose coming had been a solace to
her weariness. Of all those among whom she had lived in cold desolateness for so many years,
one only had got near her heart. There had been but one Irish voice that she had cared to hear;
and the owner of that voice had loved her child instead of loving her.

And she had borne that wretchedness too, if not well, at least bravely. True, she had separated
that lover from her daughter; but the circumstances of both had made it right for her, as a
mother, to do so. What mother, circumstanced as she had been, would have given her girl to
Owen Fitzgerald? So she had banished from the house the only voice that sounded sweetly in
her ears, and again she had been alone.

And then, perhaps, thoughts had come to her, when Herbert Fitzgerald was frequent about the
place, a rich and thriving wooer, that Owen might come again to Desmond Court, when Clara had
gone to Castle Richmond. Years were stealing over her. Ah, yes. She knew that full well. All
her youth and the pride of her days she had given up for that countess-ship which she now wore
so gloomily--given up for pieces of gold which had turned to stone and slate and dirt within
her grasp. Years, alas! were fast stealing over her. But nevertheless she had something to
give. Her woman's beauty was not all faded; and she had a heart which was as yet virgin--which
had hitherto loved no other man. Might not that suffice to cover a few years, seeing that in
return she wanted nothing but love? And so she had thought, lingering over her hopes, while
Herbert was there at his wooing.

It may be imagined with what feelings at her heart she had seen and listened to the frank attempt
made by Owen to get back his childish love. But that too she had borne, bravely, if not well.
It had not angered her that her child was loved by the only man she had ever loved herself.
She had stroked her daughter's hair that day, and kissed her cheek, and bade her be happy with
her better, richer lover. And had she not been right in this? Nor had she been angry even with
Owen. She could forgive him all, because she loved him. But might there not even yet be a chance
for her when Clara should in very truth have gone to Castle Richmond?

But now! How was she to think about all this now? And thinking of these things, how was it
possible that she should have heart left to feel for the miseries of Lady Fitzgerald? With
all her miseries would not Lady Fitzgerald still be more fortunate than she? Let come what
might, Lady Fitzgerald had had a life of prosperity and love. No; she could not think of Lady
Fitzgerald, nor of Herbert: she could only think of Owen Fitzgerald, of her daughter, and of
herself.

He, Owen, was now the heir to Castle Richmond, and would, as far as she could learn, soon become
the actual possessor. He, who had been cast forth from Desmond Court as too poor and contemptible
in the world's eye to be her daughter's suitor, would become the rich inheritor of all those
broad acres, and that old coveted family honour. And this Owen still loved her daughter--loved
her not as Herbert did, with a quiet, gentleman-like, every-day attachment, but with the old,
true, passionate love of which she had read in books, and dreamed herself, before she had sold
herself to be a countess. That Owen did so love her daughter, she was very sure. And then,
as to her daughter; that she did not still love this new heir in her heart of hearts--of that
the mother was by no means sure. That her child had chosen the better part in choosing money
and a title, she had not doubted; and that having so chosen Clara would be happy,--of that
also she did not doubt. Clara was young, she would say, and her heart in a few months would
follow her hand.

But now! How was she to decide, sitting here with Herbert Fitzgerald before her, gloomy as
death, cold, shivering, and muddy, telling of his own disasters with no more courage than a
whipped dog? As she looked at him she declared to herself twenty times in half a second that
he had not about him a tithe of the manhood of his cousin Owen. Women love a bold front, and
a voice that will never own its master to have been beaten in the world's fight. Had Owen came
there with such a story, he would have claimed his right boldly to the lady's hand, in spite
of all that the world had done to him.

"Let her have him," said Lady Desmond to herself, and the struggle within her bosom was made
and over. No wonder that Herbert, looking into her face for pity, should find that she was
harsh and cruel. She had been sacrificing herself, and had completed the sacrifice. Owen Fitzgerald,
the heir to Castle Richmond, Sir Owen as he would soon be, should have her daughter. They two,
at any rate, should be happy. And she--she would live there at Desmond Court, lonely as she
had ever lived. While all this was passing through her mind, she hardly thought of Herbert
and his sorrows. That he must be given up and abandoned, and left to make what best fight he
could by himself; as to that how was it possible that she as a mother should have any doubt?

And yet it was a pity--a thousand pities. Herbert Fitzgerald, with his domestic virtues, his
industry and thorough respectability, would so exactly have suited Clara's taste and mode of
life--had he only continued to be the heir of Castle Richmond. She and Owen would not enter
upon the world together with nearly the same fair chance of happiness. Who could prophecy to
what Owen might be led with his passionate impulses, his strong will, his unbridled temper,
and his love of pleasure? That he was noble-hearted, affectionate, brave, and tender in his
inmost spirit, Lady Desmond was very sure; but were such the qualities which would make her
daughter happy? When Clara should come to know her future lord as Clara's mother knew him,
would Clara love him and worship him as her mother did? The mother believed that Clara had
not in her bosom heart enough for such a love. But then, as I have said before, the mother
did not know the daughter.

"You say that you will break all this to Clara," said Herbert, having during this silence turned
over some of his thoughts also in his mind. "If so I may as well leave you now. You can imagine
that I am anxious to get back to my mother."

"Yes, it will be better that I should tell her. It is very sad, very sad, very sad indeed."

"Yes, it is a hard load for a man to bear," he answered, speaking very, very slowly. "But for
myself I think I can bear it, if--"

"If what?" asked the countess.

"If Clara can bear it."

And now it was necessary that Lady Desmond should speak out. She did not mean to be unnecessarily
harsh, but she did mean to be decided, and as she spoke her face became stern and ill-favoured.
"That Clara will be terribly distressed," she said, "terribly, terribly distressed," repeating
her words with great emphasis, "of that I am quite sure. She is very young, and will, I hope,
in time get over it. And then too I think she is one whose feelings, young as she is, have
never conquered her judgment. Therefore I do believe that, with God's mercy, she will be able
to bear it. But, Mr. Fitzgerald--"

"Well?"

"Of course you feel with me--and I am sure that with your excellent judgment it is a thing
of course--that everything must be over between you and Lady Clara." And then she came to a
full stop as though all had been said that could be considered necessary.

Herbert did not answer at once, but stood there shivering and shaking in his misery. He was
all but overcome by the chill of his wet garments; and though he struggled to throw off the
dead feeling of utter cold which struck him to the heart, he was quite unable to master it.
He could hardly forgive himself that on such an occasion he should have been so conquered by
his own outer feelings, but now he could not help himself. He was weak with hunger too--though
he did not know it, for he had hardly eaten food that day, and was nearly exhausted with the
unaccustomed amount of hard exercise which he had taken. He was, moreover, thoroughly wet through,
and heavy laden with the mud of the road. It was no wonder that Lady Desmond had said to herself
that he looked like a whipped dog.

"That must be as Lady Clara shall decide," he said at last, barely uttering the words through
his chattering teeth.

"It must be as I say," said the countess firmly; "whether by her decision or by yours--or if
necessary by mine. But if your feelings are, as I take them to be, those of a man of honour,
you will not leave it to me or to her. What! now that you have the world to struggle with,
would you seek to drag her down into the struggle?"

"Our union was to be for better or worse. I would have given her all the better, and--"

"Yes; and had there been a union she would have bravely borne her part in sharing the worst.
But who ought to be so thankful as you that this truth has broken upon you before you had clogged
yourself with a wife of high birth but without fortune? Alone, a man educated as you are, with
your talents, may face the world without fearing anything. But how could you make your way
now if my daughter were your wife? When you think of it, Mr. Fitzgerald, you will cease to
wish for it."

"Never; I have given my heart to your daughter, and I cannot take back the gift. She has accepted
it, and she cannot return it."

"And what would you have her do?" Lady Desmond asked, with anger and almost passion in her voice.

"Wait--as I must wait," said Herbert. "That will be her duty, as I believe it will also be
her wish."

"Yes, and wear out her young heart here in solitude for the next ten years, and then learn
when her beauty and her youth are gone--. But no, Mr. Fitzgerald; I will not allow myself to
contemplate such a prospect either for her or for you. Under the lamentable circumstances which
you have now told me it is imperative that this match should be broken off. Ask your own mother
and hear what she will say. And if you are a man you will not throw upon my poor child the
hard task of declaring that it must be so. You, by your calamity, are unable to perform your
contract with her; and it is for you to announce that that contract is therefore over."

Herbert in his present state was unable to argue with Lady Desmond. He had in his brain, and
mind, and heart, and soul--at least so he said to himself afterwards, having perhaps but a
loose idea of the different functions of these four different properties--a thorough conviction
that as he and Clara had sworn to each other that for life they would live together and love
each other, no misfortune to either of them could justify the other in breaking that oath;--
could even justify him in breaking it, though he was the one on whom misfortune had fallen.
He, no doubt, had first loved Clara for her beauty; but would he have ceased to love her, or
have cast her from him, if, by God's will, her beauty had perished and gone from her? Would
he not have held her closer to his heart, and told her, with strong comforting vows, that his
love had now gone deeper than that; that they were already of the same bone, of the same flesh,
of the same family and hearthstone? He knew himself in this, and knew that he would have been
proud so to do, and so to feel,--that he would have cast from him with utter indignation any
who would have counselled him to do or to feel differently. And why should Clara's heart be
different from his?

All this, I say, was his strong conviction. But, nevertheless, her heart might be different.
She might look on that engagement of theirs with altogether other thoughts and other ideas;
and if so his voice should never reproach her;--not his voice, however his heart might do so.
Such might be the case with her, but he did not think it; and therefore he would not pronounce
that decision which Clara's mother expected from him.

"When you have told her of this, I suppose I may be allowed to see her," he said, avoiding
the direct proposition which Lady Desmond had made to him.

"Allowed to see her?" said Lady Desmond, now also in her turn speaking very slowly. "I cannot
answer that question as yet; not quite immediately, I should say. But if you will leave the
matter in my hands, I will write to you, if not to-morrow, then the next day."

"I would sooner that she should write."

"I cannot promise that--I do not know how far her good sense and strength may support her under
this affliction. That she will suffer terribly, on your account as well as on her own, you
may be quite sure." And then, again, there was a pause of some moments.

"I, at any rate, shall write to her," he then said, "and shall tell her that I expect her to
see me. Her will in this matter shall be my will. If she thinks that her misery will be greater
in being engaged to a poor man, than,--than in relinquishing her love, she shall hear no word
from me to overpersuade her. But, Lady Desmond, I will say nothing that shall authorize her
to think that she is given up by me, till I have in some way learned from herself what her
own feelings are. And now I will say good-bye to you."

"Good-bye," said the countess, thinking that it might be as well that the interview should
be ended. "But, Mr. Fitzgerald, you are very wet; and I fear that you are very cold. You had
better take something before you go." Countess as she was, she had no carriage in which she
could send him home; no horse even on which he could ride. "Nothing, thank you, Lady Desmond,"
he said; and so, without offering her the courtesy of his hand, he walked out of the room.

He was very angry with her, as he tried to make the blood run quicker in his veins by hurrying
down the avenue into the road at his quickest pace. So angry with her, that for a while, in
his indignation, he almost forgot his father and his mother and his own family tragedy. That
she should have wished to save her daughter from such a marriage might have been natural; but
that she should have treated him so coldly, so harshly--without one spark of love or pity,--him,
who to her had been so loyal during his courtship of her daughter! It was almost incredible
to him. Was not his story one that would have melted the heart of a stranger--at which men
would weep? He himself had seen tears in the eyes of that dry, time-worn, world-used London
lawyer, as the full depth of the calamity had forced itself upon his heart. Yes, Mr. Prendergast
had not been able to repress his tears when he told the tale; but Lady Desmond had shed no
tears when the tale had been told to her. No soft woman's message had been sent to the afflicted
mother on whom it had pleased God to allow so heavy a hand to fall. No word of tenderness had
been uttered for the sinking father. There had been no feeling for the household which was
to have been so nearly linked with her own. No. Looking round with greedy eyes for wealth for
her daughter, Lady Desmond had found a match that suited her. Now that match no longer suited
her greed, and she could throw from her without a struggle to her feelings the suitor that
was now poor, and the family of the suitor that was now neither grand nor powerful.

And then too he felt angry with Clara, though he knew that as yet, at any rate, he had no cause.
In spite of what he had said and felt, he would imagine to himself that she also would be cold
and untrue. "Let her go," he said to himself. "Love is worth nothing--nothing if it does not
believe itself to be of more worth than everything beside. If she does not love me now in my
misery--if she would not choose me now for her husband--her love has never been worthy the
name. Love that has no faith in itself, that does not value itself above all worldly things,
is nothing. If it be not so with her, let her go back to him."

It may easily be understood who was the him. And then Herbert walked on so rapidly that at
length his strength almost failed him, and in his exhaustion he had more than once to lean
against a gate on the road-side. With difficulty at last he got home, and dragged himself up
the long avenue to the front door. Even yet he was not warm through to his heart, and he felt
as he entered the house that he was quite unfitted for the work which he might yet have to
do before he could go to his bed.

CHAPTER XXVII

COMFORTED

When Herbert Fitzgerald got back to Castle Richmond it was nearly dark. He opened the hall
door without ringing the bell, and walking at once into the dining room, threw himself into
a large leathern chair which always stood near the fire-place. There was a bright fire burning
on the hearth, and he drew himself close to it, putting his wet feet up on to the fender, thinking
that he would at any rate warm himself before he went in among any of the family. The room,
with its deep-red curtains and ruby-embossed paper, was almost dark, and he knew that he might
remain there unseen and unnoticed for the next half-hour. If he could only get a glass of wine!
He tried the cellaret, which was as often open as locked, but now unfortunately it was closed.
In such a case it was impossible to say whether the butler had the key or Aunt Letty; so he
sat himself down without that luxury.

By this time, as he well knew, all would have been told to his mother, and his first duty would
be to go to her--to go to her and comfort her, if comfort might be possible, by telling her
that he could bear it all; that as far as he was concerned title and wealth and a proud name
were as nothing to him in comparison with his mother's love. In whatever guise he may have
appeared before Lady Desmond, he would not go to his mother with a fainting heart. She should
not hear his teeth chatter, nor see his limbs shake. So he sat himself down there that he might
become warm, and in five minutes he was fast asleep.

How long he slept he did not know; not very long, probably; but when he awoke it was quite
dark. He gazed at the fire for a moment, bethought himself of where he was and why, shook himself
to get rid of his slumber, and then roused himself in his chair. As he did so a soft sweet
voice close to his shoulder spoke to him. "Herbert," it said, "are you awake?" And he found
that his mother, seated by his side on a low stool, had been watching him in his sleep.

"Mother!" he exclaimed.

"Herbert, my child, my son!" And the mother and son were fast locked in each other's arms.

He had sat down there thinking how he would go to his mother and offer her solace in her sorrow;
how he would bid her be of good cheer, and encourage her to bear the world as the world had
now fallen to her lot. He had pictured to himself that he would find her sinking in despair,
and had promised himself that with his vows, his kisses, and his prayers, he would bring her
back to her self-confidence, and induce her to acknowledge that God's mercy was yet good to
her. But now, on awakening, he discovered that she had been tending him in his misery, and
watching him while he slept, that she might comfort him with her caresses the moment that he
awoke to the remembrance of his misfortunes.

"Herbert, Herbert, my son, my son!" she said again, as she pressed him close in her arms.

"Mother, has he told you?"

Yes, she had learned it all; but hardly more than she had known before; or, at any rate, not
more than she had expected. As she now told him, for many days past she had felt that this
trouble which had fallen upon his father must have come from the circumstances of their marriage.
And she would have spoken out, she said, when the idea became clear to her, had she not then
been told that Mr. Prendergast had been invited to come thither from London. Then she knew
that she had better remain silent, at any rate till his visit had been made.

And Herbert again sat in the chair, and his mother crouched, or almost kneeled, on the cushion
at his knee. "Dearest, dearest, dearest mother," he said, as he supported her head against
his shoulder, "we must love each other now more than ever we have loved."

"And you forgive us, Herbert, for all that we have done to you?"

"Mother, if you speak in that way to me you will kill me. My darling, darling mother!"

There was but little more said between them upon the matter--but little more, at least, in
words; but there was an infinity of caresses, and deep--deep assurances of undying love and
confidence. And then she asked him about his bride, and he told her where he had been, and
what had happened. "You must not claim her, Herbert," she said to him. "God is good, and will
teach you to bear even that also."

"Must I not?" he asked, with a sadly plaintive voice.

"No, my child. You invited her to share your prosperity, and would it be just--"

"But, mother, if she wills it?"

"It is for you to give her back her troth, then leave it to time and her own heart."

"But if she love me, mother, she will not take back her troth. Would I take back hers because
she was in sorrow?"

"Men and women, Herbert, are different. The oak cares not whether the creeper which hangs to
it be weak or strong. If it be weak the oak can give it strength. But the staff which has to
support the creeper must needs have strength of its own."

He made no further answer to her, but understood that he must do as she bade him. He understood
now also, without many arguments within himself, that he had no right to expect from Clara
Desmond that adherence to him and his misfortunes which he would have owed to her had she been
unfortunate. He understood this now; but still he hoped. "Two hearts that have once become
as one cannot be separated," he said to himself that night, as he resolved that it was his
duty to write to her, unconditionally returning to her her pledges.

"But, Herbert, what a state you are in!" said Lady Fitzgerald, as the flame of the coal glimmering
out, threw a faint light upon his clothes.

"Yes, mother; I have been walking."

"And you are wet!"

"I am nearly dry now. I was wet. But, mother, I am tired and fagged. It would do me good if
I could get a glass of wine."

She rang the bell, and gave her orders calmly--though every servant in the house now knew the
whole truth,--and then lit a candle herself, and looked at him. "My child, what have you done
to yourself? Oh, Herbert, you will be ill!" And then, with his arm round her waist, she took
him up to her own room, and sat by him while he took off his muddy boots and clammy socks,
and made him hot drinks, and tended him as she had done when he was a child. And yet she had
that day heard of her great ruin! With truth, indeed, had Mr. Prendergast said that she was
made of more enduring material than Sir Thomas.

And she endeavoured to persuade him to go to his bed; but in this he would not listen to her.
He must, he said, see his father that night. "You have been with him, mother, since--since--"

"Oh yes; directly after Mr. Prendergast left me."

"Well?"

"He cried like a child, Herbert. We both sobbed together like two children. It was very piteous.
But I think I left him better than he has been. He knows now that those men cannot come again
to harass him."

Herbert gnashed his teeth, and clenched his fist as he thought of them; but he could not speak
of them, or mention their name before his mother. What must her thoughts be, as she remembered
that elder man and looked back to her early childhood!

"He is very weak," she went on to say: "almost helplessly weak now, and does not seem to think
of leaving his bed. I have begged him to let me send to Dublin for Sir Henry; but he says that
nothing ails him."

"And who is with him now, mother?"

"The girls are both there."

"And Mr. Prendergast?"

Lady Fitzgerald then explained to him, that Mr. Prendergast had returned to Dublin that afternoon,
starting twenty-four hours earlier than he intended,--or, at any rate, than he had said that
he intended. Having done his work there, he had felt that he would now only be in the way.
And, moreover, though his work was done at Castle Richmond, other work in the same matter had
still to be done in England. Mr. Prendengast had very little doubt as to the truth of Mollett's
story;--indeed we may say he had no doubt; otherwise he would hardly have made it known to
all that world round Castle Richmond. But nevertheless it behoved him thoroughly to sift the
matter. He felt tolerably sure that he should find Mollett in London; and whether he did or
no, he should be able to identify, or not to identify, that scoundrel with the Mr. Talbot who
had hired Chevy-chase Lodge, in Dorsetshire, and who had undoubtedly married poor Mary Wainwright.

"He left a kind message for you," said Lady Fitzgerald.--My readers must excuse me if I still
call her Lady Fitzgerald, for I cannot bring my pen to the use of any other name. And it was
so also with the dependents and neighbours of Castle Richmond, when the time came that the
poor lady felt that she was bound publicly to drop her title. It was not in her power to drop
it: no effort that she could make would induce those around her to call her by another name.

"He bade me say," she continued, "that if your future course of life should take you to London,
you are to go to him, and look to him as another father. He has no child of his own," he said,
"and you shall be to him as a son."

"I will be no one's son but yours,--yours and my father's," he said, again embracing her.

And then, when, under his mother's eye, he had eaten and drank and made himself warm, he did
go to his father and found both his sisters sitting there. They came and clustered round him,
taking hold of his hands and looking up into his face, loving him, and pitying him, and caressing
him with their eyes, but standing there by their father's bed, they said little or nothing.
Nor did Sir Thomas say much,--except this, indeed, that, just as Herbert was leaving him, he
declared with a faint voice, that henceforth his son should be master of that house, and the
disposer of that property--"As long as I live!" he exclaimed with his weak voice; "as long
as I live!"

"No, father, not so."

"Yes, yes! as long as I live. It will be little that you will have, even so--very little. But
so it shall be as long as I live."

Very little indeed, poor man, for, alas! his days were numbered.

And then, when Herbert left the room, Emmeline followed him. She had ever been his dearest
sister, and now she longed to be with him that she might tell him how she loved him, and comfort
him with her tears. And Clara too--Clara whom she had welcomed as a sister!--she must learn
now how Clara would behave, for she had already made herself sure that her brother had been
at Desmond Court, the herald of his own ruin.

"May I come with you, Herbert?" she asked, closing in round him and getting under his arm.
How could he refuse her? So they went together and sat over a fire in a small room that was
sacred to her and her sister, and there, with many sobs on her part and much would-be brave
contempt of poverty on his, they talked over the altered world as it now showed itself before them.

"And you did not see her?" she asked, when with many efforts she had brought the subject round
to Clara Desmond and her brother's walk to Desmond Court.

"No; she left the room at my own bidding. I could not have told it myself to her."

"And you cannot know, then, what she would say?"

"No, I cannot know what she would say; but I know now what I must say myself. All that is over,
Emmeline. I cannot ask her to marry a beggar."

"Ask her; no! there will be no need of asking her; she has already given you her promise. You
do not think that she will desert you? you do not wish it?"

Herein were contained two distinct questions, the latter of which Herbert did not care to answer.
"I shall not call it desertion," he said; "indeed the proposal will come from me. I shall write
to her, telling her that she need think about me no longer. Only that I am so weary I would
do it now."

"And how will she answer you? If she is the Clara that I take her for she will throw your proposal
back into your face. She will tell you that it is not in your power to reject her now. She
will swear to you, that let your words be what they may, she will think of you--more now than
she has ever thought in better days. She will tell you of her love in words that she could
not use before. I know she will. I know that she is good, and true, and honest, and generous.
Oh, I should die if I thought she were false! But, Herbert, I am sure that she is true. You
can write your letter, and we shall see."

Herbert, with wise arguments learned from his mother, reasoned with his sister, explaining
to her that Clara was now by no means bound to cling to him, but as he spoke them his arm fastened
itself closely round his sister's waist, for the words which she uttered with so much energy
were comfortable to him.

And then, seated there, before he moved from the room, he made her bring him pens, ink, and
paper, and he wrote his letter to Clara Desmond. She would fain have stayed with him while
he did so, sitting at his feet, and looking into his face, and trying to encourage his hope
as to what Clara's answer might be; but this he would not allow; so she went again to her father's
room, having succeeded in obtaining a promise that Clara's answer should be shown to her. And
the letter, when it was written, copied, and recopied, ran as follows.--

"Castle Richmond,----night.

"My dearest Clara,"--It was with great difficulty that he could satisfy himself with that,
or indeed with any other mode of commencement. In the short little love-notes which had hitherto
gone from him, sent from house to house, he had written to her with appellations of endearment
of his own--as all lovers do; and as all lovers seem to think that no lovers have done before
themselves--with appellations which are so sweet to those who write, and so musical to those
who read, but which sound so ludicrous when barbarously made public in hideous law courts by
brazen-browed lawyers with mercenary tongues. In this way only had he written, and each of
these sweet silly songs of love had been as full of honey as words could make it. But he had
never yet written to her, on a full sheet of paper, a sensible positive letter containing thoughts
and facts, as men do write to women and women also to men, when the lollypops and candied sugar-drops
of early love have passed away. Now he was to write his first serious letter to her,--and probably
his last, and it was with difficulty that he could get himself over the first three words;
but there they were decided on at last.

"My dearest Clara,

"Before you get this your mother will have told you all that which I could not bring myself
to speak out yesterday, as long as you were in the room. I am sure you will understand now
why I begged you to go away, and not think the worse of me for doing so. You now know the whole
truth, and I am sure that you will feel for us all here.

"Having thought a good deal upon the matter, chiefly during my walk home from Desmond Court,
and indeed since I have been at home, I have come to the resolution that everything between
us must be over. It would be unmanly in me to wish to ruin you because I myself am ruined.
Our engagement was, of course, made on the presumption that I should inherit my father's estate;
as it is I shall not do so, and therefore I beg that you will regard that engagement as at
an end. Of my own love for you I will say nothing. But I know that you have loved me truly,
and that all this, therefore, will cause you great grief. It is better, however, that it should
be so, than that I should seek to hold you to a promise which was made under such different
circumstances.

"You will, of course, show this letter to your mother. She, at any rate, will approve of what
I am now doing; and so will you when you allow yourself to consider it calmly.

"We have not known each other so long that there is much for us to give back to each other.
If you do not think it wrong I should like still to keep that lock of your hair, to remind
me of my first love--and, as I think, my only one. And you, I hope, will not be afraid to have
near you the one little present that I made you.

"And now, dearest Clara, good-bye. Let us always think, each of the other, as of a very dear
friend. May God bless you, and preserve you, and make you happy.

"Yours, with sincere affection,

"HERBERT FITZGERALD."

This, when at last he had succeeded in writing it, he read over and over again; but on each
occasion he said to himself that it was cold and passionless, stilted and unmeaning. It by
no means pleased him, and seemed as though it could bring but one answer--a cold acquiescence
in the proposal which he so coldly made. But yet he knew not how to improve it. And after all
it was a true exposition of that which he had determined to say. All the world--her world and
his world--would think it better that they should part, and let the struggle cost him what
it would, he would teach himself to wish that it might be so--if not for his own sake, then
for hers. So he fastened the letter, and taking it with him determined to send it over, so
that it should reach Clara quite early on the following morning.

And then having once more visited his father, and once more kissed his mother, he betook himself
to bed. It had been with him one of those days which seem to pass away without reference to
usual hours and periods. It had been long dark, and he seemed to have been hanging about the
house, doing nothing and aiding nobody, till he was weary of himself. So he went off to bed,
almost wondering, as he bethought himself of what had happened to him within the last two days,
that he was able to bear the burden of his life so easily as he did. He betook himself to bed,
and with the letter close at his hand, so that he might despatch it when he awoke, he was soon
asleep. After all, that walk, terrible as it had been, was in the end serviceable to him.

He slept without waking till the light of the February morning was beginning to dawn into his
room, and then he was roused by a servant knocking at the door. It was grievous enough that
awaking to his sorrow after the pleasant dreams of the night.

"Here is a letter, Mr. Herbert, from Desmond Court," said Richard. "The boy as brought it says
as how--"

"A letter from Desmond Court," said Herbert, putting out his hand greedily.

"Yes, Mr. Herbert. The boy's been here this hour and better. I warn't just up and about myself,
or I wouldn't have let 'em keep it from you, not half a minute."

"And where is he? I have a letter to send to Desmond Court. But never mind. Perhaps--"

"It's no good minding, for the gossoon's gone back any ways." And then Richard, having drawn
the blind, and placed a little table by the bed-head, left his young master to read the despatch
from Desmond Court. Herbert, till he saw the writing, feared that it was from the countess;
but the letter was from Clara. She also had thought good to write before she betook herself
to bed, and she had been earlier in despatching her messenger. Here is her letter:

"Dear Herbert, my own Herbert,

"I have heard it all. But remember this; nothing, nothing, NOTHING can make any change between
you and me. I will hear of no arguments that are to separate us. I know beforehand what you
will say, but I will not regard it--not in the least. I love you ten times the more for all
your unhappiness; and as I would have shared your good fortune, I claim my right to share your
bad fortune. PRAY BELIEVE ME, that nothing shall turn me from this; for I will NOT BE GIVEN UP.

"Give my kindest love to your dear, dear, dearest mother--my mother, as she is and must be;
and to my darling girls. I do so wish I could be with them, and with you, my own Herbert. I
cannot help writing in confusion, but I will explain all when I see you. I have been so unhappy.

"Your own faithful

"CLARA."

Having read this, Herbert Fitzgerald, in spite of his affliction, was comforted.

CHAPTER XXVIII

FOR A' THAT AND A' THAT

Herbert as he started from his bed with this letter in his hand felt that he could yet hold
up his head against all that the world could do to him. How could he be really unhappy while
he possessed such an assurance of love as this, and while his mother was able to give him so
glorious an example of endurance? He was not really unhappy. The low-spirited broken-hearted
wretchedness of the preceding day seemed to have departed from him as he hurried on his clothes,
and went off to his sister's room that he might show his letter to Emmeline in accordance with
the promise he had made her.

"May I come in?" he said, knocking at the door. "I must come in, for I have something to show
you." But the two girls were dressing and he could not be admitted. Emmeline however, promised
to come to him, and in about three minutes she was out in the cold little sitting-room which
adjoined their bedroom with her slippers on, and her dressing gown wrapped round her, an object
presentable to no male eyes but those of her brother.

"Emmeline," said he, "I have got a letter this morning."

"Not from Clara?"

"Yes, from Clara. There; you may read it;" and he handed her the precious epistle.

"But she could not have got your letter?" said Emmeline, before she looked at the one in her hand.

"Certainly not, for I have it here. I must write another now; but in truth I do not know what
to say. I can be as generous as she is."

And then his sister read the letter. "My own Clara!" she exclaimed, as she saw what was the
tenor of it. "Did I not tell you so, Herbert? I knew well what she would do and say. Love you
ten times better!--of course she does. What honest girl would not? My own beautiful Clara,
I knew I could depend on her. I did not doubt her for one moment." But in this particular it
must be acknowledged that Miss Emmeline Fitzgerald hardly confined herself to the strictest
veracity, for she had lain awake half the night perplexed with doubt. What, oh what, if Clara
should be untrue! Such had been the burden of her doubting midnight thoughts. "'I will not
be given up,'" she continued, quoting the letter. "No; of course not. And I tell you what,
Herbert, you must not dare to talk of giving her up. Money and titles may be tossed to and
fro, but not hearts. How beautifully she speaks of dear mamma!" and now the tears began to
run down the young lady's cheeks. "Oh, I do wish she could be with us! My darling, darling,
darling Clara! Unhappy? Yes: I am sure Lady Desmond will give her no peace. But never mind.
She will be true through it all; and I said so from the first." And then she fell to crying,
and embracing her brother, and declaring that nothing now should make her altogether unhappy.

"But, Emmeline, you must not think that I shall take her at her word. It is very generous of her--"

"Nonsense, Herbert!" And then there was another torrent of eloquence, in answering which Herbert
found that his arguments were of very little efficacy.

And now we must go back to Desmond Court, and see under what all but overwhelming difficulties
poor Clara wrote her affectionate letter. And in the first place it should be pointed out how
very wrong Herbert had been in going to Desmond Court on foot, through the mud and rain. A
man can hardly bear himself nobly unless his outer aspect be in some degree noble. It may be
very sad, this having to admit that the tailor does in great part make the man; but such I
fear is undoubtedly the fact. Could the Chancellor look dignified on the woolsack, if he had
had an accident with his wig, or allowed his robes to be torn or soiled? Does not half the
piety of a bishop reside in his lawn sleeves, and all his meekness in his anti-virile apron?
Had Herbert understood the world he would have had out the best pair of horses standing in
the Castle Richmond stables, when going to Desmond Court on such an errand. He would have brushed
his hair and anointed himself; he would have clothed himself in his rich Spanish cloak; he
would have seen that his hat was brushed, and his boots spotless; and then with all due solemnity,
but with head erect, he would have told his tale out boldly. The countess would still have
wished to be rid of him, hearing that he was a pauper; but she would have lacked the courage
to turn him from the house as she had done.

But seeing how woebegone he was and wretched, how mean to look at, and low in his outward presence,
she had been able to assume the mastery, and had kept it throughout the interview. And having
done this her opinion of his prowess naturally became low, and she felt that he would have
been unable to press his cause against her.

For some time after he had departed, she sat alone in the room in which she had received him.
She expected every minute that Clara would come down to her, still wishing, however, that she
might be left for a while alone. But Clara did not come, and she was able to pursue her thoughts.

How very terrible was this tragedy that had fallen out in her close neighbourhood! That was
the first thought that came to her now that Herbert had left her. How terrible, overwhelming,
and fatal! What calamity could fall upon a woman so calamitous as this which had now overtaken
that poor lady at Castle Richmond? Could she live and support such a burden? Could she bear
the eyes of people, when she knew the light in which she must be now regarded? To lose at one
blow, her name, her pride of place, her woman's rank and high respect! Could it be possible
that she would still live on? It was thus that Lady Desmond thought; and had any one told her
that this degraded mother would that very day come down from her room, and sit watchful by
her sleeping son, in order that she might comfort and encourage him when he awoke, she would
not have found it in her heart to believe such a marvel. But then Lady Desmond knew but one
solace in her sorrows--had but one comfort in her sad reflections. She was Countess of Desmond,
and that was all. To Lady Fitzgerald had been vouchsafed other solace and other comforts.

And then, on one point the countess made herself fixed as fate, by thinking and re-thinking
upon it till no doubt remained upon her mind. The match between Clara and Herbert must be broken
off, let the cost be what it might; and--a point on which there was more room for doubt, and
more pain in coming to a conclusion--that other match with the more fortunate cousin must be
encouraged and carried out. For herself, if her hope was small while Owen was needy and of
poor account, what hope could there be now that he would be rich and great? Moreover, Owen
loved Clara, and not herself; and Clara's hand would once more be vacant and ready for the
winning. For herself her only chance had been in Clara's coming marriage.

In all this she knew that there would be difficulty. She was sure enough that Clara would at
first feel the imprudent generosity of youth, and offer to join her poverty to Herbert's poverty.
That was a matter of course. She, Lady Desmond herself, would have done this, at Clara's age,--so
at least to herself she said, and also to her daughter. But a little time, and a little patience,
and a little care would set all this in a proper light. Herbert would go away and would gradually
be forgotten. Owen would again come forth from beneath the clouds, with renewed splendour;
and then, was it not probable that, in her very heart of hearts Owen was the man whom Clara
had ever loved?

And thus having realized to herself the facts which Herbert had told her, she prepared to make
them known to her daughter. She got up from her chair, intending at first to seek her, and
then, changing her purpose, rang the bell and sent for her. She was astonished to find how
violently she herself was affected; not so much by the circumstances, as by this duty which
had fallen to her of telling them to her child. She put one hand upon the other and felt that
she herself was in a tremor, and was conscious that the blood was running quick round her heart.
Clara came down, and going to her customary seat waited till her mother should speak to her.

"Mr. Fitzgerald has brought very dreadful news," Lady Desmond said, after a minute's pause.

"Oh mamma!" said Clara. She had expected bad tidings, having thought of all manner of miseries
while she had been upstairs alone; but there was that in her mother's voice which seemed to
be worse than the worst of her anticipations.

"Dreadful, indeed, my child! It is my duty to tell them to you; but I must caution you, before
I do so, to place a guard upon your feelings. That which I have to say must necessarily alter
all your future prospects, and, unfortunately, make your marrying Herbert Fitzgerald quite
impossible."

"Mamma!" she exclaimed, with a loud voice, jumping from her chair. "Not marry him! Why; what
can he have done? Is it his wish to break it off?"

Lady Desmond had calculated that she would best effect her object by at once impressing her
daughter with the idea that, under the circumstances which were about to be narrated, this
marriage would not only be imprudent, but altogether impracticable and out of the question.
Clara must be made to understand at once, that the circumstances gave her no option,--that
the affair was of such a nature as to make it a thing manifest to everybody, that she could
not now marry Herbert Fitzgerald. She must not be left to think whether she could, or whether
she could not, exercise her own generosity. And therefore, not without discretion, the countess
announced at once to her the conclusion at which it would be necessary to arrive. But Clara
was not a girl to adopt such a conclusion on any other judgment than her own, or to be led
in such a matter by the feelings of any other person.

"Sit down, my dear, and I will explain it all. But, dearest Clara, grieved as I must be to
grieve you, I am bound to tell you again that it must be as I say. For both your sakes it must
be so; but especially, perhaps, for his. But when I have told you my story, you will understand
that this must be so."

"Tell me, then, mother." She said this, for Lady Desmond had again paused.

"Won't you sit down, dearest?"

"Well, yes; it does not matter;" and Clara, at her mother's bidding, sat down, and then the
story was told to her.

It was a difficult tale for a mother to tell to so young a child--to a child whom she had regarded
as being so very young. There were various little points of law which she thought that she
was obliged to explain; how it was necessary that the Castle Richmond property should go to
an heir-at-law, and how it was impossible that Herbert should be that heir-at-law, seeing that
he had not been born in lawful wedlock. All these things Lady Desmond attempted to explain,
or was about to attempt such explanation, but desisted on finding that her daughter understood
them as well as she herself did. And then she had to make it also intelligible to Clara that
Owen would be called on, when Sir Thomas should die, to fill the position and enjoy the wealth
accruing to the heir of Castle Richmond. When Owen Fitzgerald's name was mentioned a slight
blush came upon Clara's cheek; it was very slight, but nevertheless her mother saw it, and
took advantage of it to say a word in Owen's favour.

"Poor Owen!" she said. "He will not be the first to triumph in this change of fortune."

"I am sure he will not," said Clara. "He is much too generous for that." And then the countess
began to hope that the task might not be so very difficult. Ignorant woman! Had she been able
to read one page in her daughter's heart, she would have known that the task was impossible.
After that the story was told out to the end without further interruption, and then Clara,
hiding her face within her hands on the head of the sofa, uttered one long piteous moan.

"It is all very dreadful," said the countess.

"Oh, Lady Fitzgerald, dear Lady Fitzgerald!" sobbed forth Clara.

"Yes, indeed. Poor Lady Fitzgerald! Her fate is so dreadful that I know not how to think of it."

"But, mamma--" and as she spoke Clara pushed back from her forehead her hair with both her
hands, showing, as she did so, the form of her forehead, and the firmness of purpose that was
written there, legible to any eyes that could read. "But, mamma, you are wrong about my not
marrying Herbert Fitzgerald. Why should I not marry him? Not now, as we, perhaps, might have
done but for this; but at some future time when he may think himself able to support a wife.
Mamma, I shall not break our engagement; certainly not."

This was said in a tone of voice so very decided that Lady Desmond had to acknowledge to herself
that there would be difficulty in her task. But she still did not doubt that she would have
her way, if not by concession on the part of her daughter, then by concession on the part of
Herbert Fitzgerald. "I can understand your generosity of feeling, my dear," she said; "and
at your age I should probably have felt the same. And therefore I do not ask you to take any
steps towards breaking your engagement. The offer must come from Mr. Fitzgerald, and I have
no doubt that it will come. He, as a man of honour, will know that he cannot now offer to marry
you; and he will also know, as a man of sense, that it would be ruin for him to think of--of
such a marriage under his present circumstances."

"Why, mamma? Why should it be ruin to him?"

"Why, my dear? Do you think that a wife with a titled name can be of advantage to a young man
who has not only got his bread to earn, but even to look out for a way in which he may earn it?"

"If there be nothing to hurt him but the titled name, that difficulty shall be easily conquered."

"Dearest Clara, you know what I mean. You must be aware that a girl of your rank, and brought
up as you have been, cannot be a fitting wife for a man who will now have to struggle with
the world at every turn."

Clara, as this was said to her, and as she prepared to answer, blushed deeply, for she felt
herself obliged to speak on a matter which had never yet been subject of speech between her
and her mother. "Mamma," she said, "I cannot agree with you there. I may have what the world
calls rank; but nevertheless we have been poor, and I have not been brought up with costly
habits. Why should I not live with my husband as--as--as poorly as I have lived with my mother?
You are not rich, dear mamma, and why should I be?"

Lady Desmond did not answer her daughter at once; but she was not silent because an answer
failed her. Her answer would have been ready enough had she dared to speak it out. "Yes, it
is true; we have been poor. I, your mother, did by my imprudence bring down upon my head and
on yours absolute, unrelenting, pitiless poverty. And because I did so, I hae never known one
happy hour. I have spent my days in bitter remorse--in regretting the want of those things
which it has been the more terrible to want as they are the customary attributes of people
of my rank. I have been driven to hate those around me who have been rich, because I have been
poor. I have been utterly friendless because I have been poor. I have been able to do none
of those sweet, soft, lovely things, by doing which other women win the smiles of the world,
because I have been poor. Poverty and rank together have made me wretched--have left me without
employment, without society, and without love. And now would you tell me that because I have
been poor you would choose to be poor also?" It would have been thus that she would have answered,
had she been accustomed to speak out her thoughts. But she had ever been accustomed to conceal
them.

"I was thinking quite as much of him as of you," at last she said. "Such an engagement to you
would be fraught with much misery, but to him it would be ruinous."

"I do not think it, mamma."

"But it is not necessary, Clara, that you should do anything. You will wait, of course, and
see what Herbert may say himself."

"Herbert--"

"Wait half a moment, my love. I shall be very much surprised if we do not find that Mr. Fitzgerald
himself will tell you that the match must be abandoned."

"But that will make no difference, mamma."

"No difference, my dear! You cannot marry him against his will. You do not mean to say that
you would wish to bind him to his engagement, if he himself thought it would be to his disadvantage?"

"Yes; I will bind him to it."

"Clara!"

"I will make him know that it is not for his disadvantage. I will make him understand that
a friend and companion who loves him as I love him--as no one else will ever love him now--for
I love him because he was so high-fortuned when he came to me, and because he is now so low-fortuned--that
such a wife as I will be, cannot be a burden to him. I will cling to him whether he throws
me off or no. A word from him might have broken our engagement before, but a thousand words
cannot do it now."

Lady Desmond stared at her daughter, for Clara, in her excitement, was walking up and down
the room. The countess had certainly not expected all this, and she was beginning to think
that the subject for the present might as well be left alone. But Clara had not done as yet.

"Mamma." she said, "I will not do anything without telling you; but I cannot leave Herbert
in all his misery to think that I have no sympathy with him. I shall write to him."

"Not before he writes to you, Clara! You would not wish to be indelicate?"

"I know but little about delicacy--what people call delicacy; but I will not be ungenerous
or unkind. Mamma, you brought us two together. Was it not so? Did you not do so, fearing that
I might--might still care for Herbert's cousin? You did it; and half wishing to obey you, half
attracted by all his goodness, I did learn to love Herbert Fitzgerald; and I did learn to forget--no;
but I learned to cease to love his cousin. You did this and rejoiced at it; and now what you
did must remain done."

"But, dearest Clara, it will not be for his good."

"It shall be for his good. Mamma, I would not desert him now for all that the world could give
me. Neither for mother nor brother could I do that. Without your leave I would not have given
him the right to regard me as his own; but now I cannot take that right back again, even at
your wish. I must write to him at once, mamma, and tell him this."

"Clara, at any rate you must not do that, that at least I must forbid."

"Mother, you cannot forbid it now," the daughter said, after walking twice the length of the
room in silence. "If I be not allowed to send a letter, I shall leave the house and go to him."

This was all very dreadful. Lady Desmond was astounded at the manner in which her daughter
carried herself, and the voice with which she spoke. The form of her face was altered, and
the very step with which she trod was unlike her usual gait. What would Lady Desmond do? She
was not prepared to confine her daughter as a prisoner, nor could she publicly forbid the people
about the place to go upon her message.

"I did not expect that you would have been so undutiful," she said.

"I hope I am not so," Clara answered. "But now my first duty is to him. Did you not sanction
our loving each other? People cannot call back their hearts and their pledges."

"You will, at any rate, wait till tomorrow, Clara."

"It is dark now," said Clara, despondingly, looking out through the window upon the falling
night; "I suppose I cannot send to-night."

"And you will show me what you write, dearest?"

"No, mamma. If I wrote it for your eyes it could not be the same as if I wrote it only for his."

Very gloomy, sombre, and silent, was the Countess of Desmond all that night. Nothing further
was said about the Fitzgeralds between her and her daughter, before they went to bed; and then
Lady Desmond did speak a few futile words.

"Clara," she said. "You had better think over what we have been saying, in bed to-night. You
will be more collected to-morrow morning."

"I shall think of it of course," said Clara; "but thinking can make no difference," and then
just touching her mother's forehead with her lips she went off slowly to her room.

What sort of a letter she wrote when she got there, we have already seen; and have seen also
that she took effective steps to have her letter carried to Castle Richmond at an hour sufficiently
early in the morning. There was no danger that the countess would stop the message, for the
letter had been read twenty times by Emmeline and Mary, and had been carried by Herbert to
his mother's room, before Lady Desmond had left her bed. "Do not set your heart on it too warmly,"
said Herbert's mother to him.

"But is she not excellent?" said Herbert. "It is because she speaks of you in such a way--"

"You would not wish to bring her into misery, because of her excellence."

"But, mother, I am still a man," said Herbert. This was too much for the suffering woman, the
one fault of whose life had brought her son to such a pass, and throwing her arm round his
neck she wept upon his shoulders.

There were other messengers went and came that day between Desmond Court and Castle Richmond.
Clara and her mother saw nothing of each other early in the morning; they did not breakfast
together, nor was there a word said between them on the subject of the Fitzgeralds. But Lady
Desmond early in the morning--early for her, that is--sent her note also to Castle Richmond.
It was addressed to Aunt Letty, Miss Letitia Fitzgerald, and went to say that Lady Desmond
was very anxious to see Miss Letty. Under the present circumstances of the family, as described
to Lady Desmond by Mr. Herbert Fitzgerald, she felt that she could not ask to see "his mother";--it
was thus that she overcame the difficulty which presented itself to her as to the proper title
now to be given to Lady Fitzgerald;--but perhaps Miss Letty would be good enough to see her,
if she called at such and such an hour. Aunt Letty, much perplexed, had nothing for it, but
to say that she would see her. The countess must now be looked on as closely connected with
the family--at any rate, until that match were broken off; and therefore Aunt Letty had no
alternative. And so, precisely at the hour named, the countess and Aunt Letty were seated together
in the little breakfast-room of which mention has before been made.

No two women were ever closeted together who were more unlike each other,--except that they
had one common strong love for family rank. But in Aunt Letty it must be acknowledged that
this passion was not unwholesome or malevolent in its course of action. She delighted in being
a Fitzgerald, and in knowing that her branch of the Fitzgeralds had been considerable people
ever since her Norman ancestor had come over to Ireland with Strongbow. But then she had a
useful idea that considerable people should do a considerable deal of good. Her family pride
operated more inwardly than outwardly,--inwardly as regarded her own family, and not outwardly
as regarded the world. Her brother, and her nephew, and her sister-in-law, and nieces, were,
she thought, among the highest commoners in Ireland; they were gentlefolks of the first water,
and walked openly before the world accordingly, proving their claim to gentle blood by gentle
deeds and honest conduct. Perhaps she did think too much of the Fitzgeralds of Castle Richmond;
but the sin was one of which no recording angel could have made much in his entry. That she
was a stupid old woman, prejudiced in the highest degree, and horribly ignorant of all the
world beyond her own very narrow circle,--even of that, I do not think that the recording angel
could, under the circumstances, have made a great deal.

And now how was her family pride affected by this horrible catastrophe that had been made known
to her? Herbert the heir, whom as heir she had almost idolized, was nobody. Her sister-in-law,
whom she had learned to love with the whole of her big heart, was no sister-in-law. Her brother
was one, who, in lieu of adding glory to the family, would always be regarded as the most unfortunate
of the Fitzgerald baronets. But with her, human nature was stronger than family pride, and
she loved them all, not better, but more tenderly than ever.

The two ladies were closeted together for about two hours; and then, when the door was opened,
Aunt Letty might have been seen with her bonnet much on one side, and her poor old eyes and
cheeks red with weeping. The countess, too, held her handkerchief to her eyes as she got back
into her pony-carriage. She saw no one else there but Aunt Letty; and from her mood when she
returned to Desmond Court it might be surmised that from Aunt Letty she had learned little
to comfort her.

"They will be beggars!" she said to herself--"beggars!"--when the door of her own room had
closed upon her. And there are few people in the world who held such beggary in less esteem
than did the Countess of Desmond. It may almost be said that she hated herself on account of
her own poverty.

CHAPTER XXIX

ILL NEWS FLIES FAST

A dull, cold, wretched week passed over their heads at Castle Richmond, during which they did
nothing but realize the truth of their position; and then came a letter from Mr. Prendergast,
addressed to Herbert, in which he stated that such inquiries as he had hitherto made left no
doubt on his mind that the man named Mollett, who had lately made repeated visits at Castle
Richmond, was he who had formerly taken the house in Dorsetshire under the name of Talbot.
In his packet Mr. Prendergast sent copies of documents and of verbal evidence which he had
managed to obtain; but with the actual details of these it is not necessary that I should trouble
those who are following me in this story. In this letter Mr. Prendergast also recommended that
some intercourse should be had with Owen Fitzgerald. It was expedient, he said, that all the
parties concerned should recognize Owen's position as the heir presumptive to the title and
estate; and as he, he said, had found Mr. Fitzgerald of Hap House to be forbearing, generous,
and high-spirited, he thought that this intercourse might be conducted without enmity or ill
blood. And then he suggested that Mr. Somers should see Owen Fitzgerald.

All this Herbert explained to his father gently and without complaint; but it seemed now as
though Sir Thomas had ceased to interest himself in the matter. Such battle as it had been
in his power to make he had made to save his son's heritage and his wife's name and happiness,
even at the expense of his own conscience. That battle had gone altogether against him, and
now there was nothing left for him but to turn his face to the wall and die. Absolute ruin,
through his fault, had come upon him and all that belonged to him,--ruin that would now be
known to the world at large; and it was beyond his power to face that world again. In that
the glory was gone from the house of his son, and of his son's mother, the glory was gone from
his own house. He made no attempt to leave his bed, though strongly recommended so to do by
his own family doctor. And then a physician came down from Dublin, who could only feel, whatever
he might say, how impossible it is to administer to a mind diseased. The mind of that poor
man was diseased past all curing in this world, and there was nothing left for him but to die.

Herbert, of course, answered Clara's letter, but he did not go over to see her during that
week, nor indeed for some little time afterwards. He answered it at considerable length, professing
his ready willingness to give back to Clara her troth, and even recommending her, with very
strong logic and unanswerable arguments of worldly sense, to regard their union as unwise and
even impossible; but nevertheless there protruded through all his sense and all his rhetoric,
evidences of love and of a desire for love returned, which were much more unanswerable than
his arguments, and much stronger than his logic. Clara read his letter, not as he would have
advised her to read it, but certainly in the manner which best pleased his heart, and answered
it again, declaring that all that he said was no avail. He might be false to her if he would.
If through fickleness of heart and purpose he chose to abandon her, she would never complain--never
at least aloud. But she would not be false to him, nor were her inclinations such as to make
it likely that she should be fickle, even though her affection might be tried by a delay of
years. Love with her had been too serious to be thrown aside. All which was rather strong language
on the part of a young lady, but was thought by those other young ladies at Castle Richmond
to show the very essence of becoming young-ladyhood. They pronounced Clara to be perfect in
feeling and in judgment, and Herbert could not find it in his heart to contradict them.

And of all these doings, writings, and resolves, Clara dutifully told her mother. Poor Lady
Desmond was at her wits' end in the matter. She could scold her daughter, but she had no other
power of doing anything. Clara had so taken the bit between her teeth that it was no longer
possible to check her with any usual rein. In these days young ladies are seldom deprived by
force of paper, pen, and ink, and the absolute incarceration of such an offender would be still
more unusual. Another countess would have taken her daughter away, either to London and a series
of balls, or to the South of Italy, or to the family castle in the North of Scotland, but poor
Lady Desmond had not the power of other countesses. Now that it was put to the trial, she found
that she had no power, even over her own daughter. "Mamma, it was your own doing," Clara would
say; and the countess would feel that this alluded not only to her daughter's engagement with
Herbert the disinherited, but also to her non-engagement with Owen the heir.

Under these circumstances Lady Desmond sent for her son. The earl was still at Eton, but was
now grown to be almost a man--such a man as forward Eton boys are at sixteen--tall, and lathy,
and handsome, with soft incipient whiskers, a bold brow and blushing cheeks, with all a boy's
love for frolic still strong within him, but some touch of a man's pride to check it. In her
difficulty Lady Desmond sent for the young earl, who had now not been home since the previous
midsummer, hoping that his young manhood might have some effect in saving his sister from the
disgrace of a marriage which would make her so totally bankrupt both in wealth and rank.

Mr. Somers did go once to Hap House, at Herbert's instigation; but very little came of his
visit. He had always disliked Owen, regarding him as an unthrift, any close connexion with
whom could only bring contamination on the Fitzgerald property; and Owen had returned the feeling
tenfold. His pride had been wounded by what he had considered to be the agent's insolence,
and he had stigmatized Mr. Somers to his friends as a self-seeking, mercenary prig. Very little,
therefore, came of the visit. Mr. Somers, to give him his due, had attempted to do his best;
being anxious, for Herbert's sake, to conciliate Owen; perhaps having--and why not?--some eye
to the future agency. But Owen was hard, and cold, and uncommunicative,--very unlike what he
had before been to Mr. Prendergast. But then Mr. Prendergast had never offended his pride.

"You may tell my cousin Herbert," he said, with some little special emphasis on the word cousin,
"that I shall be glad to see him, as soon as he feels himself able to meet me. It will be for
the good of us both that we should have some conversation together. Will you tell him, Mr.
Somers, that I shall be happy to go to him, or to see him here? Perhaps my going to Castle
Richmond, during the present illness of Sir Thomas, may be inconvenient." And this was all
that Mr. Somers could get from him.

In a very short time the whole story became known to everybody round the neighbourhood. And
what would have been the good of keeping it secret? There are some secrets,--kept as secrets
because they cannot well be discussed openly,--which may be allowed to leak out with so much
advantage! The day must come, and that apparently at no distant time, when all the world would
know the fate of that Fitzgerald family; when Sir Owen must walk into the hall of Castle Richmond,
the undoubted owner of the mansion and demesne. Why then keep it secret? Herbert openly declared
his wish to Mr. Somers that there should be no secret in the matter. "There is no disgrace,"
he said, thinking of his mother; "nothing to be ashamed of, let the world say what it will."

Down in the servants' hall the news came to them gradually, whispered about from one to another.
They hardly understood what it meant, or how it had come to pass; but they did know that their
master's marriage had been no marriage, and that their master's son was no heir. Mrs. Jones
said not a word in the matter to any one. Indeed, since that day on which she had been confronted
with Mollett, she had not associated with the servants at all, but had kept herself close to
her mistress. She understood what it all meant perfectly; and the depth of the tragedy had
so cowed her spirit that she hardly dared to speak of it. Who told the servants,--or who does
tell servants of such matters, it is impossible to say, but before Mr. Prendergast had been
three days out of the house they all knew that the Mr. Owen of Hap House was to be the future
master of Castle Richmond.

"An' a sore day it'll be; a sore day, a sore day," said Richard, seated in an armchair by the
fire, at the end of the servants' hall, shaking his head despondingly.

"Faix, an' you may say that," said Corney, the footman. "That Misther Owen will go tatthering
away to the divil, when the old place comes into his hans. No fear he'll make it fly."

"Sorrow seize the ould lawyer for coming down here at all at all," said the cook.

"I never knew no good come of thim dry ould bachelors," said Biddy the housemaid; "specially
the Englishers."

"The two of yez are no better nor simpletons," said Richard, magisterially. "'Twarn't he that
done it. The likes of him couldn't do the likes o' that."

"And what was it as done it?" said Biddy.

"Ax no questions, and may be you'll be tould no lies," replied Richard.

"In course we all knows it's along of her ladyship's marriage which warn't no marriage," said
the cook. "May the heavens be her bed when the Lord takes her! A betther lady nor a kinder-hearted
niver stepped the floor of a kitchen."

"'Deed an that's thrue for you, cook," said Biddy, with the corner of her apron up to her eyes.
"But tell me, Richard, won't poor Mr. Herbert have nothing?"

"Never you mind about Mr. Herbert," said Richard, who had seen Biddy grow up from a slip of
a girl, and therefore was competent to snub her at every word.

"Ah, but I do mind," said the girl. "I minds more about him than ere a one of 'em; and av'
that Lady Clara won't have em a cause of this--"

"Not a step she won't, thin," said Corney. "She'll go back to Mr. Owen. He was her fust love.
You'll see else." And so the matter was discussed in the servants' hall at the great house.

But perhaps the greatest surprise, the greatest curiosity, and the greatest consternation,
were felt at the parsonage. The rumour reached Mr. Townsend at one of the Relief Committees;--and
Mrs. Townsend from the mouth of one of her servants, during his absence, on the same day; and
when Mr. Townsend returned to the parsonage, they met each other with blank faces.

"Oh, Aeneas!" said she, before she could get his greatcoat from off his shoulders, "have you
heard the news?"

"What news?--about Castle Richmond?"

"Yes; about Castle Richmond." And then she knew that he had heard it.

Some glimmering of Lady Fitzgerald's early history had been known to both of them, as it had
been known almost to all in the country; but in late years this history had been so much forgotten,
that men had ceased to talk of it, and this calamity therefore came with all the weight of
a new misfortune.

"And, Aeneas, who told you of it?" she asked, as they sat together over the fire, in their
dingy, dirty parlour.

"Well, strange to say, I heard it first from Father Barney."

"Oh, mercy! and is it all about the country in that way?"

"Herbert, you know, has not been at any one of the Committees for the last ten days, and Mr.
Somers for the last week past has been as silent as death; so much so, that that horrid creature,
Father Columb, would have made a regular set speech the other day at Gortnaclough, if I hadn't
put him down."

"Dear, dear, dear!" said Mrs. Townsend.

"And I was talking to Father Barney about this, to-day--about Mr. Somers, that is."

"Yes, yes, yes!"

"And then he said, 'I suppose you know what has happened at Castle Richmond?'"

"How on earth had he learned?" asked Mrs. Townsend, jealous that a Roman Catholic priest should
have heard such completely Protestant news before the Protestant parson and his wife.

"Oh, they learn everything--from the servants, I suppose."

"Of course, the mean creatures!" said Mrs. Townsend, forgetting, probably, her own little conversation
with her own man-of-all-work that morning. "But go on, Aeneas."

"'What has happened,' said I, 'at Castle Richmond?' 'Oh, you haven't heard,' said he. And I
was obliged to own that I had not, though I saw that it gave him a kind of triumph. 'Why,'
said he, 'very bad news has reached them indeed; the worst of news.' And then he told me about
Lady Fitzgerald. To give him his due, I must say that he was very sorry--very sorry. 'The poor
young fellow!' he said--'the poor young fellow!' And I saw that he turned away his face to
hide a tear."

"Crocodile tears!" said Mrs. Townsend.

"No, they were not," said her reverend lord; "and Father Barney is not so bad as I once thought
him."

"I hope you are not going over too, Aeneas?" And his consort almost cried as such a horrid
thought entered her head. In her ideas any feeling short of absolute enmity to a servant of
the Church of Rome was an abandonment of some portion of the Protestant basis of the Church
of England. "The small end of the wedge," she would call it, when people around her would suggest
that that the heart of a Roman Catholic priest might possibly not be altogether black and devilish.

"Well, I hope not, my dear," said Mr. Townsend, with a slight touch of sarcasm in his voice.
"But, as I was saying, Father Barney told me then that this Mr. Prendergast--"

"Oh, I had known of his being there from the day of his coming."

"This Mr Prendergast, it seems, knew the whole affair, from beginning to end."

"But how did he know it, Aeneas?"

"That I can't tell you. He was a friend of Sir Thomas before his marriage, I know that. And
he has told them that it is of no use their attempting to keep it secret. He was over at Hap
House with Owen Fitzgerald before he went."

"And has Owen Fitzgerald been told?"

"Yes, he has been told--told that he is to be the next heir, so Father Barney says."

Mrs. Townsend wished in her heart that the news could have reached her through a purer source,
but all this, coming though it did from Father Barney, tallied too completely with what she
herself had heard to leave on her mind any doubt of its truth. And then she began to think
of Lady Fitzgerald and her condition, of Herbert and of his, and of the condition of them all,
till by degrees her mind passed away from Father Barney and all his iniquities.

"It is very dreadful," she said, in a low voice.

"Very dreadful, very dreadful. I hardly know how to think of it. And I fear that Sir Thomas
will not live many months to give them even the benefit of his life interest."

"And when he dies all will be gone?"

"Everything."

And then tears stood in her eyes also, and in his also after a while. It is very easy for a
clergyman in his pulpit to preach eloquently upon the vileness of worldly wealth, and the futility
of worldly station; but where will you ever find one who, when the time of proof shall come,
will give proof that he himself feels what he preaches? Mr. Townsend was customarily loud and
eager upon this subject, and yet he was now shedding tears because his young friend Herbert
was deprived of his inheritance.

CHAPTER XXX

PALLIDA MORS

Mr. Somers, returning from Hap House, gave Owen's message to Herbert Fitzgerald, but at the
same time told him that he did not think any good would come of such a meeting.

"I went over there," he said, "because I would not willingly omit anything that Mr. Prendergast
had suggested; but I did not expect any good to come of it. You know what I have always thought
of Owen Fitzgerald."

"But Mr. Prendergast said that he behaved so well."

"He did not know Prendergast, and was cowed for the moment by what he had heard. That was natural
enough. You do as you like, however; only do not have him over to Castle Richmond."

Owen, however, did not trust solely to Mr. Somers, but on the following day wrote to Herbert,
suggesting that they had better meet, and begging that the place and time of meeting might
be named. He himself again suggested Hap House, and declared that he would be at home on any
day and at any hour that his "cousin" might name, "only," as he added, "the sooner the better."
Herbert wrote back by the same messenger, saying that he would be with him early on the following
morning; and on the following morning he drove up to the door of Hap House, while Owen was
still sitting with his coffee-pot and knife and fork before him.

Captain Donnellan, whom we saw there on the occasion of our first morning visit, was now gone,
and Owen Fitzgerald was all alone in his home. The captain had been an accustomed guest, spending
perhaps half his time there during the hunting season, but since Mr. Prendergast had been at
Hap House, he had been made to understand that the master would fain be alone. And since that
day Owen had never hunted, nor been noticed in his old haunts, nor had been seen talking to
his old friends. He had remained at home, sitting over the fire thinking, wandering up and
down his own avenue, or standing about the stable, idly, almost unconscious of the grooming
of his horses. Once and once only he had been mounted, and then as the dusk of evening was
coming on he had trotted over quickly to Desmond Court, as though he had in hand some purport
of great moment, but if so he changed his mind when he came to the gate, for he walked on slowly
for three or four hundred yards beyond it, and then, turning his horse's head, slowly made
his way back past the gate, and then trotted quickly home to Hap House. In these moments of
his life he must make or mar himself for life, 'twas so that he felt it, and how should he
make himself, or how avoid the marring? That was the question which he now strove to answer.

When Herbert entered the room, he rose from his chair, and walked quickly up to his visitor,
with extended hand, and a look of welcome in his face. His manner was very different from that
with which he had turned and parted from his cousin not many days since in the demesne at Castle
Richmond. Then he had intended absolutely to defy Herbert Fitzgerald; but there was no spirit
of defiance now, either in his hand, or face, or in the tone of his voice.

"I am very glad you have come," said he. "I hope you understood that I would have gone to you,
only that I thought it might be better for both of us to be here."

Herbert said something to the effect that he had been quite willing to come over to Hap House.
But he was not at the moment so self-possessed as the other, and hardly knew how to begin the
subject which was to be discussed between them.

"Of course you know that Mr. Prendergast was here?" said Owen.

"Oh yes," said Herbert.

"And Mr. Somers also? I tell you fairly, Herbert, that when Mr. Somers came, I was not willing
to say much to him. What has to be said must be said between you and me, and not to any third
party. I could not open my heart, nor yet speak my thoughts, to Mr. Somers."

In answer to this, Herbert again said that Owen need have no scruple in speaking to him. "It
is all plain sailing; too plain, I fear," said he. "There is no doubt whatever now as to the
truth of what Mr. Prendergast has told you."

And then having said so much, Herbert waited for Owen to speak. He, Herbert himself, had little
or nothing to say. Castle Richmond with its title and acres was not to be his, but was to be
the property of this man with whom he was now sitting. When that was actually and positively
understood between them, there was nothing further to be said; nothing as far as Herbert knew.
That other sorrow of his, that other and deeper sorrow which affected his mother's name and
station,--as to that he did not find himself called on to speak to Owen Fitzgerald. Nor was
it necessary that he should say anything as to his great consolation--the consolation which
had reached him from Clara Desmond.

"And is it true, Herbert," asked Owen at last, "that my uncle is so very ill?" In the time
of their kindly intercourse, Owen had always called Sir Thomas his uncle, though latterly he
had ceased to do so.

"He is very ill; very ill indeed," said Herbert. This was a subject in which Owen had certainly
a right to feel interested, seeing that his own investiture would follow immediately on the
death of Sir Thomas; but Herbert almost felt that the question might as well have been spared.
It had been asked, however, almost solely with the view of gaining some few moments.

"Herbert," he said at last, standing up from his chair, as he made an effort to begin his speech,
"I don't know how far you will believe me when I tell you that all this news has caused me
great sorrow. I grieve for your father and your mother, and for you, from the very bottom of
my heart."

"It is very kind of you," said Herbert. "But the blow has fallen, and as for myself, I believe
that I can bear it. I do not care so very much about the property."

"Nor do I;" and now Owen spoke rather louder, and with his own look of strong impulse about
his mouth and forehead. "Nor do I care so much about the property. You were welcome to it;
and are so still. I have never coveted it from you, and do not covet it."

"It will be yours now without coveting," replied Herbert; and then there was another pause,
during which Herbert sat still, while Owen stood leaning with his back against the mantelpiece.

"Herbert," said he, after they had thus remained silent for two or three minutes, "I have made
up my mind on this matter, and I will tell you truly what I do desire, and what I do not. I
do not desire your inheritance, but I do desire that Clara Desmond shall be my wife."

"Owen," said the other, also getting up, "I did not expect when I came here that you would
have spoken to me about this."

"It was that we might speak about this that I asked you to come here. But listen to me. When
I say that I want Clara Desmond to be my wife, I mean to say that I want that, and that only.
It may be true that I am, or shall be, legally the heir to your father's estate. Herbert, I
will relinquish all that, because I do not feel it to be my own. I will relinquish it in any
way that may separate myself from it most thoroughly. But in return, do you separate yourself
from her who was my own before you had ever known her."

And thus he did make the proposition as to which he had been making up his mind since the morning
on which Mr. Prendergast had come to him.

Herbert for a while was struck dumb with amazement, not so much at the quixotic generosity
of the proposal, as at the singular mind of the man in thinking that such a plan could be carried
out. Herbert's best quality was no doubt his sturdy common sense, and that was shocked by a
suggestion which presumed that all the legalities and ordinary bonds of life could be upset
by such an agreement between two young men. He knew that Owen Fitzgerald could not give away
his title to an estate of fourteen thousand a year in this off-hand way, and that no one could
accept such a gift were it possible to be given. The estate and title must belong to Owen,
and could not possibly belong to any one else, merely at his word and fancy. And then again,
how could the love of a girl like Clara Desmond be bandied to and fro at the will of any suitor
or suitors? That she had once accepted Owen's love, Herbert knew; but since that, in a soberer
mood, and with maturer judgment, she had accepted his. How could he give it up to another,
or how could that other take possession of it if so abandoned? The bargain was one quite impossible
to be carried out; and yet Owen in proposing it had fully intended to be as good as his word.

"That is impossible," said Herbert, in a low voice.

"Why impossible? May I not do what I like with that which is my own? It is not impossible.
I will have nothing to do with that property of yours. In fact, it is not my own, and I will
not take it; I will not rob you of that which you have been born to expect. But in return for
this--"

"Owen, do not talk of it; would you abandon a girl whom you loved for any wealth, or any property?"

"You cannot love her as I love her. I will talk to you on this matter openly, as I have never
yet talked to any one. Since first I saw Clara Desmond, the only wish of my life has been that
I might have her for my wife. I have longed for her as a child longs--if you know what I mean
by that. When I saw that she was old enough to understand what love meant, I told her what
was in my heart, and she accepted my love. She swore to me that she would be mine, let mother
or brother say what they would. As sure as you are standing there a living man she loved me
with all truth. And that I loved her--! Herbert, I have never loved aught but her; nothing
else!--neither man nor woman, nor wealth nor title. All I ask is that I may have that which
was my own."

"But, Owen--" and Herbert touched his cousin's arm.

"Well; why do you not speak? I have spoken plainly enough."

"It is not easy to speak plainly on all subjects. I would not, if I could avoid it, say a word
that would hurt your feelings."

"Never mind my feelings. Speak out, and let us have the truth, in God's name. My feelings have
never been much considered yet--either in this matter or in any other."

"It seems to me," said Herbert, "that the giving of Lady Clara's hand cannot depend on your
will, or on mine."

"You mean her mother."

"No, by no means. Her mother now would be the last to favour me. I mean herself. If she loves
me, as I hope and believe--nay, am sure--"

"She did love me!" shouted Owen.

"But even if so--I do not now say anything of that; but even if so, surely you would not have
her marry you if she does not love you still? You would not wish her to be your wife if her
heart belongs to me?"

"It has been given you at her mother's bidding."

"However given it is now my own, and it cannot be returned. Look here, Owen. I will show you
her last two letters, if you will allow me; not in pride, I hope, but that you may truly know
what are her wishes." And he took from his breast, where they had been ever since he received
them, the two letters which Clara had written to him. Owen read them both twice over before
he spoke, first one and then the other, and an indescribable look of pain fell on his brow
as he did so. They were so tenderly worded, so sweet, so generous! He would have given all
the world to have had those letters addressed by her to himself. But even they did not convince
him. His heart had never changed, and he could not believe that there had been any change in hers.

"I might have known," he said, as he gave them back, "that she would be too noble to abandon
you in your distress. As long as you were rich I might have had some chance of getting her
back, despite the machinations of her mother. But now that she thinks you are poor--" And then
he stopped, and hid his face between his hands.

And in what he had last said there was undoubtedly something of truth. Clara's love for Herbert
had never been passionate, till passion had been created by his misfortune. And in her thoughts
of Owen there had been much of regret. Though she had resolved to withdraw her love, she had
not wholly ceased to love him. Judgment had bade her to break her word to him, and she had
obeyed her judgment. She had admitted to herself that her mother was right in telling her that
she could not join her own bankrupt fortunes to the fortunes of one who was both poor and a
spendthrift, and thus she had plucked from her heart the picture of the man she had loved,--or
endeavoured so to pluck it. Some love for him, however, had unwittingly lingered there. And
then Herbert had come with his suit, a suitor fitted for her in every way. She had not loved
him as she had loved Owen. She had never felt that she could worship him, and tremble at the
tones of his voice, and watch the glance of his eye, and gaze into his face as though he were
half divine. But she acknowledged his worth, and valued him: she knew that it behoved her to
choose some suitor as her husband; and now that her dream was gone, where could she choose
better than here? And thus Herbert had been accepted. He had been accepted, but the dream was
not wholly gone. Owen was in adversity, ill spoken of by those around her, shunned by his own
relatives, living darkly, away from all that is soft in life; and for these reasons Clara could
not wholly forget her dream. She had, in some sort, unconsciously clung to her old love, till
he to whom she had plighted her new troth was in adversity,--and then all was changed. Then
her love for Herbert did become a passion; and then, as Owen had become rich, she felt that
she could think of him without remorse. He was quite right in perceiving that his chance was
gone now that Herbert had ceased to be rich.

"Owen," said Herbert, and his voice was full of tenderness, for at this moment he felt that
he did love and pity his cousin, "we must each of us bear the weight which fortune has thrown
on us. It may be that we are neither of us to be envied. I have lost all that men generally
value, and you--"

"I have lost all on earth that is valuable to me. But no, it is not lost,--not lost as yet.
As long as her name is Clara Desmond, she is as open for me to win as she is for you. And,
Herbert, think of it before you make me your enemy. See what I offer you,--not as a bargain,
mind you. I give up all my title to your father's property. I will sign any paper that your
lawyers may bring to me, which may serve to give you back your inheritance. As for me, I would
scorn to take that which belongs in justice to another. I will not have your property. Come
what may, I will not have it. I will give it up to you, either as to my enemy or as to my friend."

"I sincerely hope that we may be friends, but what you say is impossible."

"It is not impossible. I hereby pledge myself that I will not take an acre of your father's
lands; but I pledge myself also that I will always be your enemy if Clara Desmond becomes your
wife: and I mean what I say. I have set my heart on one thing, and on one thing only, and if
I am ruined in that I am ruined indeed."

Herbert remained silent, for he had nothing further that he knew how to plead; he felt as other
men would feel, that each of them must keep that which Fate had given him. Fate had decreed
that Owen should be the heir to Castle Richmond, and the decree thus gone forth must stand
valid; and Fate had also decreed that Owen should be rejected by Clara Desmond, which other
decree, as Herbert thought, must be held as valid also. But he had no further inclination to
argue upon the subject: his cousin was becoming hot and angry; and Herbert was beginning to
wish that he was on his way home, that he might be once more at his father's bedside, or in
his mother's room, comforting her and being comforted.

"Well," said Owen, after a while in his deep-toned voice, "what do you say to my offer?"

"I have nothing further to say: we must each take our own course; as for me, I have lost everything
but one thing, and it is not likely that I shall throw that away from me."

"Nor, so help me Heaven in my need! will I let that thing be filched from me. I have offered
you kindness and brotherly love, and wealth, and all that friendship could do for a man, give
me my way in this, and I will be to you such a comrade and such a brother."

"Should I be a man, Owen, were I to give up this?"

"Be a man! Yes! It is pride on your part. You do not love her; you have never loved her as
I have loved; you have not sat apart long months and months thinking of her, as I have done.
From the time she was a child I marked her as my own. As God will help me when I die, she is
all that I have coveted in this world;--all! But her I have coveted with such longings of the
heart, that I cannot bring myself to live without her;--nor will I." And then again they both
were silent.

"It may be as well that we should part now," said Herbert at last. "I do not know that we can
gain anything by further talking on this subject."

"Well, you know that best; but I have one further question to ask you."

"What is it, Owen?"

"You still think of marrying Clara Desmond?"

"Certainly; of course I think of it."

"And when? I presume you are not so chicken-hearted as to be afraid of speaking out openly
what you intend to do."

"I cannot say when; I had hoped that it would have been very soon; but all this will of course
delay it. It may be years first."

These last were the only pleasant words that Owen had heard. If there were to be a delay of
years, might not his chance still be as good as Herbert's? But then this delay was to be the
consequence of his cousin's ruined prospects--and the accomplishment of that ruin Owen had
pledged himself to prevent! Was he by his own deed to enable his enemy to take that very step
which he was so firmly resolved to prevent?

"You will give me your promise," said he, "that you will not marry her for the next three years?
Make me that promise, and I will make you the same."

Herbert felt that there could be no possibility of his now marrying within the time named,
but nevertheless he would not bring himself to make such a promise as this. He would make no
bargain about Clara Desmond, about his Clara, which could in any way admit a doubt as to his
own right. Had Owen asked him to promise that he would not marry her during the next week he
would have given no such pledge. "No," said he, "I cannot promise that."

"She is now only seventeen."

"It does not matter. I will make no such promise, because on such a subject you have no right
to ask for any. When she will consent to run her risk of happiness in coming to me, then I
shall marry her."

Owen was now walking up and down the room with rapid steps. "You have not the courage to fight
me fairly," said he.

"I do not wish to fight you at all."

"Ah, but you must fight me! Shall I see the prey taken out of my jaws, and not struggle for
it? No, by heavens! you must fight me; and I tell you fairly, that the fight shall be as hard
as I can make it. I have offered you that which one living man is seldom able to offer to another,--money,
and land, and wealth, and station; all these things I throw away from me, because I feel that
they should be yours; and I ask only in return the love of a young girl. I ask that because
I feel that it should be mine. If it has gone from me--which I do not believe--it has been
filched and stolen by a thief in the night. She did love me, if a girl ever loved a man; but
she was separated from me, and I bore that patiently because I trusted her. But she was young
and weak, and her mother was strong and crafty. She has accepted you at her mother's instance;
and were I base enough to keep from you your father's inheritance, her mother would no more
give her to you now than she would to me then. This is true; and if you know it to be true--as
you do know--you will be mean, and dastard, and a coward--you will be no Fitzgerald if you
keep from me that which I have a right to claim as my own. Not fight! Ay, but you must fight.
We cannot both live here in this country if Clara Desmond become your wife. Mark my words,
if that take place, you and I cannot live here alongside of each other's houses." He paused
for a moment after this, and then added, "You can go now if you will, for I have said out my say."

And Herbert did go,--almost without uttering a word of adieu. What could he say in answer to
such threats as these? That his cousin was in every way unreasonable,--as unreasonable in his
generosity as he was in his claims, he felt convinced. But an unreasonable man, though he is
one whom one would fain conquer by arguments were it possible, is the very man on whom arguments
have no avail. A madman is mad because he is mad. Herbert had a great deal that was very sensible
to allege in favour of his views, but what use of alleging anything of sense to such a mind
as that of Owen Fitzgerald? So he went his way without further speech.

When he was gone, Owen for a time went on walking his room, and then sank again into his chair.
Abominably irrational as his method of arranging all these family difficulties will no doubt
seem to all who may read it, to him it had appeared not only an easy but a happy mode of bringing
back contentment to everybody. He was quite serious in his intention of giving up his position
as heir to Castle Richmond. Mr. Prendergast had explained to him that the property was entailed
as far as him, but no farther; and had done this, doubtless, with the view, not then expressed,
to some friendly arrangement by which a small portion of the property might be saved and restored
to the children of Sir Thomas. But Owen had looked at it quite in another light. He had, in
justice, no right to inquire into all those circumstances of his old cousin's marriage. Such
a union was a marriage in the eye of God, and should be held as such by him. He would take
no advantage of so terrible an accident.

He would take no advantage. So he said to himself over and over again; but yet, as he said
it, he resolved that he would take advantage. He would not touch the estate; but surely if
he abstained from touching it, Herbert would be generous enough to leave to him the solace
of his love! And he had no scruple in allotting to Clara the poorer husband instead of the
richer. He was no poorer now than when she had accepted him. Looking at it in that light, had
he not a right to claim that she should abide by her first acceptance? Could any one be found
to justify the theory that a girl may throw over a poor lover because a rich lover comes in
the way? Owen had his own ideas of right and wrong--ideas which were not without a basis of
strong, rugged justice; and nothing could be more antagonistic to them than such a doctrine
as this. And then he still believed in his heart that he was dearer to Clara than that other
richer suitor. He heard of her from time to time, and those who had spoken to him had spoken
of her as pining for love of him. In this there had been much of the flattery of servants,
and something of the subservience of those about him who wished to stand well in his graces.
But he had believed it. He was not a conceited man, nor even a vain man. He did not think himself
more clever than his cousin; and as for personal appearance, it was a matter to which his thoughts
never descended; but he had about him a self-dependence and assurance in his own manhood, which
forbade him to doubt the love of one who had told him that she loved him.

And he did not believe in Herbert's love. His cousin was, as he thought, of a calibre too cold
for love. That Clara was valued by him, Owen did not doubt--valued for her beauty, for her
rank, for her grace and peerless manner; but what had such value as that to do with love? Would
Herbert sacrifice everything for Clara Desmond? would he bid Pelion fall on Ossa? would he
drink up Esil? All this would Owen do, and more; he would do more than any Laertes had ever
dreamed. He would give up for now and for ever all title to those rich lands which made the
Fitzgeralds of Castle Richmond the men of greatest mark in all their county.

And thus he fanned himself into a fury as he thought of his cousin's want of generosity. Herbert
would be the heir, and because he was the heir he would be the favoured lover. But there might
yet be time and opportunity; and at any rate Clara should not marry without knowing what was
the whole truth. Herbert was ungenerous, but Clara still might be just. If not,--then, as he
had said before, he would fight out the battle to the end as with an enemy.

Herbert, when he got on to his horse to ride home, was forced to acknowledge to himself that
no good whatever had come from his visit to Hap House. Words had been spoken which might have
been much better left unspoken. An angry man will often cling to his anger because his anger
has been spoken; he will do evil because he has threatened evil, and is ashamed to be better
than his words. And there was no comfort to be derived from those lavish promises made by Owen
with regard to the property. To Herbert's mind they were mere moonshine--very graceful on the
part of the maker, but meaning nothing. No one could have Castle Richmond but him who owned
it legally. Owen Fitzgerald would become Sir Owen, and would, as a matter of course, be Sir
Owen of Castle Richmond. There was no comfort on that score; and then, on that other score,
there was so much discomfort. Of giving up his bride Herbert never for a moment thought; but
he did think, with increasing annoyance, of the angry threats which had been pronounced against
him.

When he rode into the stable-yard as was his wont, he found Richard waiting for him. This was
not customary; as in these latter days Richard, though he always drove the car, as a sort of
subsidiary coachman to the young ladies to whom the car was supposed to belong in fee, did
not act as general groom. He had been promoted beyond this, and was a sort of hanger-on about
the house, half indoor servant and half out, doing very much what he liked, and giving advice
to everybody, from the cook downwards. He thanked God that he knew his place, he would often
say; but nobody else knew it. Nevertheless, everybody liked him; even the poor housemaid whom
he snubbed.

"Is anything the matter?" asked Herbert, looking at the man's sorrow-laden face.

'"Deed an' there is, Mr. Herbert; Sir Thomas is--"

"My father is not dead!" exclaimed Herbert.

"Oh no, Mr. Herbert; it's not so bad as that; but he is very failing,--very failing. My lady
is with him now."

Herbert ran into the house, and at the bottom of the chief stairs he met one of his sisters,
who had heard the steps of his horse.

"Oh, Herbert, I am so glad you have come!" said she. Her eyes and cheeks were red with tears,
and her hand, as her brother took it, was cold and numbed.

"What is it, Mary? Is he worse?"

"Oh, so much worse. Mamma and Emmeline are there. He has asked for you three or four times,
and always says that he is dying. I had better go up and say that you are here."

"And what does my mother think of it?"

"She has never left him, and therefore I cannot tell; but I know from her face that she thinks
that he is--dying. Shall I go up, Herbert?" and so she went; and Herbert, following softly
on his toes, stood in the corridor outside the bedroom-door, waiting till his arrival should
have been announced. It was but a minute, and then his sister, returning to the door, summoned
him to enter.

The room had been nearly darkened, but as there were no curtains to the bed, Herbert could
see his mother's face as she knelt on a stool at the bedside. His father was turned away from
him, and lay with his hand inside his wife's, and Emmeline was sitting on the foot of the bed,
with her face between her hands, striving to stifle her sobs. "Here is Herbert now, dearest,"
said Lady Fitzgerald, with a low, soft voice, almost a whisper, yet clear enough to cause no
effort in the hearing. "I knew that he would not be long." And Herbert, obeying the signal
of his mother's eye, passed round to the other side of the bed.

"Father," said he, "are you not so well to-day?"

"My poor boy, my poor ruined boy!" said the dying man, hardly articulating the words as he
dropped his wife's hand and took that of his son. Herbert found that it was wet, and clammy,
and cold, and almost powerless in its feeble grasp.

"Dearest father, you are wrong if you let that trouble you; all that will never trouble me.
Is it not well that a man should earn his own bread? Is it not the lot of all good men?" But
still the old man murmured with his broken voice, "My poor boy, my poor boy!"

The hopes and aspirations of his eldest son are as the breath of his nostrils to an Englishman
who has been born to land and fortune. What had not this poor man endured in order that his
son might be Sir Herbert Fitzgerald of Castle Richmond? But this was no longer possible; and
from the moment that this had been brought home to him, the father had felt that for him there
was nothing left but to die. "My poor boy," he muttered, "tell me that you have forgiven me."

And then they all knelt round the bed and prayed with him; and afterwards they tried to comfort
him, telling him how good he had been to them; and his wife whispered in his ear that if there
had been fault, the fault was hers, but that her conscience told her that such fault had been
forgiven; and while she said this she motioned the children away from him, and strove to make
him understand that human misery could never kill the soul, and should never utterly depress
the spirit. "Dearest love," she said, still whispering to him in her low, sweet voice--so dear
to him, but utterly inaudible beyond--"if you would cease to accuse yourself so bitterly, you
might yet be better, and remain with us to comfort us."

But the slender, half-knit man, whose arms are without muscles and whose back is without pith,
will strive in vain to lift the weight which the brawny vigour of another tosses from the ground
almost without an effort. It is with the mind and the spirit as with the body; only this, that
the muscles of the body can be measured, but not so those of the spirit. Lady Fitzgerald was
made of other stuff than Sir Thomas; and that which to her had cost an effort, but with an
effort had been done surely, was to him as impossible as the labour of Hercules. "My poor boy,
my poor ruined boy!" he still muttered, as she strove to comfort him.

"Mamma has sent for Mr. Townsend," Emmeline whispered to her brother, as they stood together
in the bow of the window.

"And do you really think he is so bad as that?"

"I am sure that mamma does. I believe he had some sort of a fit before you came. At any rate,
he did not speak for two hours."

"And was not Finucane here?" Finucane was the Mallow doctor.

"Yes; but he had left before papa became so much worse. Mamma has sent for him also."

But I do not know that it boots to dally longer in a dying chamber. It is an axiom of old that
the stage curtain should be drawn before the inexorable one enters in upon his final work.
Dr. Finucane did come, but his coming was all in vain. Sir Thomas had known that it was in
vain, and so also had his patient wife. There was that mind diseased, towards the cure of which
no Dr. Finucane could make any possible approach. And Mr. Townsend came also, let us hope not
in vain; though the cure which he fain would have perfected can hardly be effected in such
moments as those. Let us hope that it had been already effected. The only crying sin which
we can lay to the charge of the dying man is that of which we have spoken; he had endeavoured
by pensioning falsehood and fraud to preserve for his wife her name, and for his son that son's
inheritance. Even over this, deep as it was, the recording angel may have dropped some cleansing
tears of pity.

That night the poor man died, and the Fitzgeralds who sat in the chambers of Castle Richmond
were no longer the owners of the mansion. There was no speech of Sir Herbert among the servants
as there would have been had these tidings not have reached them. Dr. Finucane had remained
in the house, and even he, in speaking of the son, had shown that he knew the story. They were
strangers there now, as they all knew--intruders, as they would soon be considered in the house
of their cousin Owen; or rather not their cousin. In that he was above them by right of his
blood, they had no right to claim him as their relation.

It may be said that at such a moment all this should not have been thought of; but those who
say so know little, as I imagine, of the true effect of sorrow. No wife and no children ever
grieved more heartily for a father; but their grief was blacker and more gloomy in that they
knew that they were outcasts in the world.

And during that long night, as Herbert and his sisters sat up cowering round the fire, he told
them of all that had been said at Hap House. "And can it not be as he says?" Mary had asked.

"And that Herbert should give up his wife!" said Emmeline.

"No; but the other thing."

"Do not dream of it," said Herbert. "It is all, all impossible. The house that we are now in
belongs to Sir Owen Fitzgerald."

CHAPTER XXXI

THE FIRST MONTH

And now I will beg my readers to suppose a month to have passed by since Sir Thomas Fitzgerald
died. It was a busy month in Ireland. It may probably be said that so large a sum of money
had never been circulated in the country in any one month since money had been known there;
and yet it may also be said that so frightful a mortality had never occurred there from the
want of that which money brings.

It was well understood by all men now that the customary food of the country had disappeared.
There was no longer any difference of opinion between rich and poor, between Protestant and
Roman Catholic; as to that, no man dared now to say that the poor, if left to themselves, could
feed themselves, or to allege that the sufferings of the country arose from the machinations
of money-making speculators. The famine was an established fact, and all men knew that it was
God's doing,--all men knew this, though few could recognize as yet with how much mercy God's
hand was stretched out over the country.

Or may it not perhaps be truer to say that in such matters there is no such thing as mercy--no
special mercies--no other mercy than that fatherly, forbearing, all-seeing, perfect goodness
by which the Creator is ever adapting this world to the wants of His creatures, and rectifying
the evils arising from their faults and follies? Sed quo Musa tendis? Such discourses of the
gods as these are not to be fitly handled in such small measures.

At any rate, there was the famine, undoubted now by any one; and death, who in visiting Castle
Richmond may be said to have knocked at the towers of a king, was busy enough also among the
cabins of the poor. And now the great fault of those who were the most affected was becoming
one which would not have been at first sight expected. One would think that starving men would
become violent, taking food by open theft--feeling, and perhaps not without some truth, that
the agony of their want robbed such robberies of its sin. But such was by no means the case.
I only remember one instance in which the bakers' shops were attacked; and in that instance
the work was done by those who were undergoing no real suffering. At Clonmel, in Tipperary,
the bread was one morning stripped away from the bakers' shops; but at that time, and in that
place, there was nothing approaching to famine. The fault of the people was apathy. It was
the feeling of the multitude that the world and all that was good in it was passing away from
them; that exertion was useless, and hope hopeless. "Ah, me! your honour," said a man to me,
"there'll never be a bit and a sup again in the county Cork! The life of the world is fairly gone!"

And it was very hard to repress this feeling. The energy of a man depends so much on the outward
circumstances that encumber him! It is so hard to work when work seems hopeless--so hard to
trust where the basis of our faith is so far removed from sight! When large tracts of land
went out of cultivation, was it not natural to think that agriculture was receding from the
country, leaving the green hills once more to be brown and barren, as hills once green have
become in other countries? And when men were falling in the highways, and women would sit with
their babes in their arms, listless till death should come to them, was it not natural to think
that death was making a huge success--that he, the inexorable one, was now the inexorable indeed?

There were greatly trusting hearts that could withstand the weight of this terrible pressure,
and thinking minds which saw that good would come out of this great evil; but such hearts and
such minds were not to be looked for among the suffering poor, and were not, perhaps, often
found even among those who were not poor or suffering. It was very hard to be thus trusting
and thoughtful while everything around was full of awe and agony.

The people, however, were conscious of God's work, and were becoming dull and apathetic. They
clustered about the roads, working lazily while their strength lasted them; and afterwards,
when strength failed them for this, they clustered more largely in the poor-houses. And in
every town--in every assemblage of houses which in England would be called a village, there
was a poor-house. Any big barrack of a tenement that could be obtained at a moment's notice,
whatever the rent, became a poor-house in the course of twelve hours,--in twelve, nay, in two
hours. What was necessary but the bare walls, and a supply of yellow meal? Bad provision this
for all a man's wants,--as was said often enough by irrational philanthropists; but better
provision than no shelter and no yellow meal! It was bad that men should be locked up at night
without any of the appliances of decency; bad that they should be herded together for day after
day with no resource but the eating twice a day of enough unsavoury food to keep life and soul
together;--very bad, ye philanthropical irrationalists! But is not a choice of evils all that
is left to us in many a contingency? Was not even this better than that life and soul should
be allowed to part, without any effect at preserving their union?

And thus life and soul were kept together, the government of the day having wisely seen what,
at so short a notice, was possible for them to do, and what was absolutely impossible. It is
in such emergencies as these that the watching and the wisdom of a government are necessary;
and I shall always think--as I did think then--that the wisdom of its action and the wisdom
of its abstinence from action were very good. And now again the fields in Ireland are green,
and the markets are busy, and money is chucked to and fro like a weathercock which the players
do not wish to have abiding with them; and the tardy speculator going over to look for a bit
of land comes back muttering angrily that fancy prices are demanded. "They'll run you up to
thirty-three years' purchase," says the tardy speculator, thinking, as it seems, that he is
specially ill used. Agricultural wages have been nearly doubled in Ireland during the last
fifteen years. Think of that, Master Brook. Work for which, at six shillings a week, there
would be a hundred hungry claimants in 1845,--in the good old days before the famine, when
repeal was so immediately expected--will now fetch ten shillings, the claimants being by no
means numerous. In 1843 and 1844, I knew men to work for fourpence a day--something over the
dole on which we are told, being mostly incredulous as we hear it, that a Coolie labourer can
feed himself with rice in India;--not one man or two men, the broken-down incapables of the
parish, but the best labour of the country. One and twopence is now about the cheapest rate
at which a man can be hired for agricultural purposes. While this is so, and while the prices
are progressing, there is no cause for fear, let Bishops A and B, and Archbishops C and D fret
and fume with never so great vexation touching the clipped honours of their father the Pope.

But again, Quo Musa tendis? I could write on this subject for a week were it not that Rhadamanthus
awaits me, Rhadamanthus the critic, and Rhadamanthus is, of all things, impatient of an episode.

Life and soul were kept together in those terrible days,--that is, the Irish life and soul
generally. There were many slips, in which the union was violently dissolved,--many cases in
which the yellow meal allowed was not sufficient, or in which it did not reach the sufferer
in time to prevent such dissolution,--cases which when numbered together amounted to thousands.
And then the pestilence came, taking its victims by tens of thousands,--but that was after
the time with which we shall have concern here; and immigration followed, taking those who
were saved by hundreds of thousands. But the millions are still there, a thriving people, for
His mercy endureth for ever.

During this month, the month ensuing upon the death of Sir Thomas Fitzgerald, Herbert could
of course pay no outward attention to the wants or relief of the people. He could make no offer
of assistance, for nothing belonged to him, nor could he aid in the councils of the committees,
for no one could have defined the position of the speaker. And during that month nothing was
defined about Castle Richmond. Lady Fitzgerald was still always called by her title. The people
of the country, including the tradesmen of the neighbouring towns, addressed the owner of Hap
House as Sir Owen; and gradually the name was working itself into common use, though he had
taken no steps to make himself legally entitled to wear it. But no one spoke of Sir Herbert.
The story was so generally known, that none were so ignorant as to suppose him to be his father's
heir. The servants about the place still called him Mr. Herbert, orders to that effect having
been specially given; and the peasants of the country, with that tact which graces them, and
with that anxiety to abstain from giving pain which always accompanies them unless when angered,
carefully called him by no name. They knew that he was not Sir Herbert, but they would not
believe but what, perchance, he might be so yet on some future day. So they took off their
old hats to him, and passed him silently in his sorrow, or if they spoke to him, addressed
his honour simply, omitting all mention of that Christian name, which the poor Irishman is
generally so fond of using. "Mister Blake" sounds cold and unkindly in his ears. It is the
"Masther," or "His honour," or if possible "Misther Thady." Or if there be any handle, that
is used with avidity. Pat is a happy man when he can address his landlord as "Sir Patrick."

But now the "ould masther's son" could be called by no name. Men knew not what he was to be,
though they knew well that he was not that which he ought to be. And there were some who attempted
to worship Owen as the rising sun; but for such of them as had never worshipped him before
that game was rather hopeless. In those days he was not much seen, neither hunting nor entertaining
company; but when seen he was rough enough with those who made any deep attempt to ingratiate
themselves with his coming mightiness. And during this month he went over to London, having
been specially invited so to do by Mr. Prendergast; but very little came of his visit there,
except that it was certified to him that he was beyond all doubt the baronet. "And there shall
be no unnecessary delay, Sir Owen," said Mr. Prendergast, "in putting you into full possession
of all your rights." In answer to which Owen had replied that he was not anxious to be put
in possession of any rights. That as far as any active doing of his own was concerned, the
title might lie in abeyance, and that regarding the property he would make known his wish to
Mr. Prendergast very quickly after his return to Ireland. But he intimated at the same time
that there could be no ground for disturbing Lady Fitzgerald, as he had no intention under
any circumstances of living at Castle Richmond.

"Had you not better tell Lady Fitzgerald that yourself?" said Mr. Prendergast, catching at
the idea that his friend's widow--my readers will allow me so to call her--might be allowed
to live undisturbed at the family mansion, if not for life, at any rate for a few years. If
this young man were so generous, why should it not be so? He would not want the big house,
at any rate, till he were married.

"It would be better that you should say so," said Owen. "I have particular reasons for not
wishing to go there."

"But allow me to say, my dear young friend--and I hope I may call you so, for I greatly admire
the way in which you have taken all these tidings--that I would venture to advise you to drop
the remembrance of any unpleasantness that may have existed. You should now feel yourself to
be the closest friend of that family."

"So I would if--," and then Owen stopped short, though Mr. Prendergast gave him plenty of time
to finish his sentence were he minded to do so.

"In your present position," continued the lawyer, "your influence will be very great."

"I can't explain it all," said Owen; "but I don't think my influence will be great at all.
And what is more, I do not want any influence of that sort. I wish Lady Fitzgerald to understand
that she is at perfect liberty to stay where she is,--as far as I am concerned. Not as a favour
from me, mind; for I do not think that she would take a favour from my hands."

"But, my dear sir!"

"Therefore you had better write to her about remaining there."

Mr. Prendergast did write to her, or rather to Herbert: but in doing so he thought it right
to say that the permission to live at Castle Richmond should be regarded as a kindness granted
them by their relative. "It is a kindness which, under the circumstances, your mother may,
I think, accept without compunction; at any rate, for some time to come,--till she shall have
suited herself without hurrying her choice; but, nevertheless, it must be regarded as a generous
offer on his part; and I do hope, my dear Herbert, that you and he will be fast friends."

But Mr. Prendergast did not in the least comprehend the workings of Owen's mind; and Herbert,
who knew more of them than any one else, did not understand them altogether. Owen had no idea
of granting any favour to his relatives, who, as he thought, had never granted any to him.
What Owen wanted,--or what he told himself that he wanted,--was justice. It was his duty as
a just man to abstain from taking hold of those acres, and he was prepared to do his duty.
But it was equally Herbert's duty as a just man to abstain from taking hold of Clara Desmond,
and he was resolved that he would never be Herbert's friend if Herbert did not perform that
duty. And then, though he felt himself bound to give up the acres,--though he did regard this
as an imperative duty, he nevertheless felt also that something was due to him for his readiness
to perform such a duty,--that some reward should be conceded to him; what this reward was to
be, or rather what he wished it to be, we all know.

Herbert had utterly refused to engage in any such negotiation; but Owen, nevertheless, would
not cease to think that something might yet be done. Who was so generous as Clara, and would
not Clara herself speak out if she knew how much her old lover was prepared to do for this
newer lover? Half a dozen times Owen made up his mind to explain the whole thing to Mr. Prendergast;
but when he found himself in the presence of the lawyer, he could not talk about love. Young
men are so apt to think that their seniors in age cannot understand romance, or acknowledge
the force of a passion. But here they are wrong, for there would be as much romance after forty
as before, I take it, were it not checked by the fear of ridicule. So Owen stayed a week in
London, seeing Mr. Prendergast every day; and then he returned to Hap House.

In the mean time life went on at a very sad pace at Desmond Court. There was no concord whatever
between the two ladies residing there. The mother was silent, gloomy, and sometimes bitter,
seldom saying a word about Herbert Fitzgerald or his prospects, but saying that word with great
fixity of purpose when it was spoken. "No one," she said, "should attribute to her the poverty
and misery of her child. That marriage should not take place from her house, or with her consent."
And Clara for the most part was silent also. In answer to such words as the above she would
say nothing; but when, as did happen once or twice, she was forced to speak, she declared openly
enough that no earthly consideration should induce her to give up her engagement.

And then the young earl came home, brought away from his school in order that his authority
might have effect on his sister. To speak the truth, he was unwilling enough to interfere,
and would have declined to come at all could he have dared to do so. Eton was now more pleasant
to him than Desmond Court, which, indeed, had but little of pleasantness to offer to a lad
such as he was now. He was sixteen, and manly for his age, but the question in dispute at Desmond
Court offered little attraction even to a manly boy of sixteen. In that former question as
to Owen he had said a word or two, knowing that Owen could not be looked upon as a fitting
husband for his sister, but now he knew not how to counsel her again as to Herbert, seeing
that it was but the other day that he had written a long letter, congratulating her on that
connection.

Towards the end of the month, however, he did arrive, making glad his mother's heart as she
looked at his strong limbs and his handsome open face. And Clara, too, threw herself so warmly
into his arms that he did feel glad that he had come to her. "Oh, Patrick, it is so sweet to
have you here!" she said, before his mother had had time to speak to him.

"Dearest Clara!"

"But, Patrick, you must not be cruel to me. Look here, Patrick, you are my only brother, and
I so love you that I would not offend you or turn you against me for worlds. You are the head
of our family, too, and nothing should be done that you do not like. But if so much depends
on you, you must think well before you decide on anything."

He opened his young eyes and looked intently into her face, for there was an earnestness in
her words that almost frightened him. "You must think well of it before you speak, Patrick;
and remember this, you and I must be honest and honourable, whether we be poor or no. You remember
about Owen Fitzgerald, how I gave way then because I could do so without dishonour. But now--"

"But, Clara, I do not understand it all as yet."

"No; you cannot,--not as yet--and I will let mamma tell you the story. All I ask is this, that
you will think of my honour before you say a word that can favour either her or me." And then
he promised her that he would do so; and his mother, when on the following morning she told
him all the history, found him reserved and silent.

"Look at his position," said the mother, pleading her cause before her son. "He is illegitimate,
and--"

"Yes, but, mother--"

"I know all that, my dear; I know what you would say; and no one can pity Mr. Fitzgerald's
position more than I do; but you would not on that account have your sister ruined. It is romance
on her part."

"But what does he say?"

"He is quite willing to give up the match. He has told me so, and said as much to his aunt,
whom I have seen three times on the subject."

"Do you mean that he wishes to give it up?"

"No;--at least, I don't know. If he does, he cannot express such a wish, because Clara is so
headstrong. Patrick, in my heart I do not believe that she cares for him. I have doubted it
for some time."

"But you wanted her to marry him."

"So I did. It was an excellent match, and in a certain way she did like him; and then, you
know, there was that great danger about poor Owen. It was a great danger then. But now she
is so determined about this, because she thinks it would be ungenerous to go back from her
word; and in this way she will ruin the very man she wishes to serve. Of course he cannot break
off the match if she persists in it. What I want you to perceive is this, that he, utterly
penniless as he is, will have to begin the world with a clog round his neck, because she is
so obstinate. What could possibly be worse for him than a titled wife without a penny?" And
in this way the countess pleaded her side of the question before her son.

It was quite true that she had been three times to Castle Richmond, and had thrice driven Aunt
Letty into a state bordering on distraction. If she could only get the Castle Richmond people
to take it up as they ought to do! It was thus she argued with herself,--and with Aunt Letty
also, endeavouring to persuade her that these two young people would undoubtedly ruin each
other, unless those who were really wise and prudent, and who understood the world--such as
Aunt Letty, for instance--would interfere to prevent it.

Aunt Letty on the whole did agree with her, though she greatly disliked her. Miss Fitzgerald
had strongly planted within her bosom the prudent old-world notion, that young gentlefolks
should not love each other unless they have plenty of money; and that, if unfortunately such
did love each other, it was better that they should suffer all the pangs of hopeless love than
marry and trust to God and their wits for bread and cheese. To which opinion of Aunt Letty's,
as well as to some others entertained by that lady with much pertinacity, I cannot subscribe
myself as an adherent.

Lady Desmond had wit enough to discover that Aunt Letty did agree with her in the main, and
on this account she was eager in seeking her assistance. Lady Fitzgerald of course could not
be seen, and there was no one else at Castle Richmond who could be supposed to have any weight
with Herbert. And therefore Lady Desmond was very eloquent with Aunt Letty, talking much of
the future miseries of the two young people, till the old lady had promised to use her best
efforts in enlisting Lady Fitzgerald on the same side. "You cannot wonder, Miss Fitzgerald,
that I should wish to put an end to the cruel position in which my poor girl is placed. You
know how much a girl suffers from that kind of thing."

Aunt Letty did dislike Lady Desmond very much; but, nevertheless, she could not deny the truth
of all this, and therefore it may be said that the visits of the countess to Castle Richmond
were on the whole successful.

And the month wore itself away also in that sad household, and the Fitzgeralds were gradually
becoming used to their position. Family discussions were held among them as to what they should
do, and where they should live in future. Mr. Prendergast had written, seeing that Owen had
persisted in refusing to make the offer personally himself--saying that there was no hurry
for any removal. "Sir Owen," he said,--having considered deeply whether or no he would call
him by the title or no, and having resolved that it would be best to do so at once--"Sir Owen
was inclined to behave very generously. Lady Fitzgerald could have the house and demesne at
any rate for twelve months, and by that time the personal property left by Sir Thomas would
be realized, and there would be enough," Mr. Prendergast said, "for the three ladies to live
'in decent quiet comfort.'" Mr. Prendergast had taken care before he left Castle Richmond that
a will should be made and duly executed by Sir Thomas, leaving what money he had to his three
children by name,--in trust for their mother's use. Till the girls should be of age that trust
would be vested in Herbert.

"Decent quiet comfort!" said Mary to her brother and sister as they conned the letter over;
"how comfortless it sounds!"

And so the first month after the death of Sir Thomas passed by, and the misfortunes of the
Fitzgerald family ceased to be the only subject spoken of by the inhabitants of county Cork.

CHAPTER XXXII

PREPARATIONS FOR GOING

At the end of the month, Herbert began to prepare himself for facing the world. The first question
to be answered was that one which is so frequently asked in most families, but which had never
yet been necessary in this--What profession would he follow? All manners of ways by which an
educated man can earn his bread had been turned over in his mind, and in the minds of those
who loved him, beginning with the revenues of the Archbishop of Armagh, which was Aunt Letty's
idea, and ending with a seat at a government desk, which was his own. Mr. Prendergast had counselled
the law; not his own lower branch of the profession, but a barrister's full-blown wig, adding,
in his letter to Lady Fitzgerald, that if Herbert would come to London, and settle in chambers,
he, Mr. Prendergast, would see that his life was made agreeable to him. But Mr. Somers gave
other advice. In those days Assistant Poor-Law Commissioners were being appointed in Ireland,
almost by the score, and Mr. Somers declared that Herbert had only to signify his wish for
such a position, and he would get it. The interest which he had taken in the welfare of the
poor around him was well known, and as his own story was well known also, there could be no
doubt that the government would be willing to assist one so circumstanced, and who when assisted
would make himself so useful. Such was the advice of Mr. Somers; and he might have been right
but for this, that both Herbert and Lady Fitzgerald felt that it would be well for them to
move out of that neighbourhood,--out of Ireland altogether, if such could be possible.

Aunt Letty was strong for the Church. A young man who had distinguished himself at the University
so signally as her nephew had done, taking his degree at the very first attempt, and that in
so high a class of honour as the fourth, would not fail to succeed in the Church. He might
not perhaps succeed as to Armagh; that she admitted, but there were some thirty other bishoprics
to be had, and it would be odd if, with his talents, he did not get one of them. Think what
it would be if he were to return to his own country as Bishop of Cork, Cloyne, and Ross, as
to which amalgamation of sees, however, Aunt Letty had her own ideas. He was slightly tainted
with the venom of Puseyism, Aunt Letty said to herself; but nothing would dispel this with
so much certainty as the theological studies necessary for ordination. And then Aunt Letty
talked it over by the hour together with Mrs. Townsend, and both those ladies were agreed that
Herbert should get himself ordained as quickly as possible;--not in England, where there might
be danger even in ordination, but in good, wholesome, Protestant Ireland, where a Church of
England clergyman was a clergyman of the Church of England, and not a priest, slipping about
in the mud halfway between England and Rome.

Herbert himself was anxious to get some employment by which he might immediately earn his bread,
but not unnaturally wished that London should be the scene of his work. Anywhere in Ireland
he would be known as the Fitzgerald who ought to have been the Fitzgerald of Castle Richmond.
And then too, he, as other young men, had an undefined idea, that as he must earn his bread
London should be his ground. He had at first been not ill inclined to that Church project,
and had thus given a sort of ground on which Aunt Letty was able to stand,--had, as it were,
given her some authority for carrying on an agitation in furtherance of her own views; but
Herbert himself soon gave up this idea. A man, he thought, to be a clergyman should have a
very strong predilection in favour of that profession; and so he gradually abandoned that idea,--actuated,
as poor Aunt Letty feared, by the agency of the evil one, working through the means of Puseyism.

His mother and sisters were in favour of Mr. Prendergast's views, and as it was gradually found
by them all that there would not be any immediate pressure as regarded pecuniary means, that
seemed at last to be their decision. Herbert would remain yet for three or four weeks at Castle
Richmond, till matters there were somewhat more thoroughly settled, and would then put himself
into the hands of Mr. Prendergast in London. Mr. Prendergast would select a legal tutor for
him, and proper legal chambers; and then not long afterwards his mother and sisters should
follow, and they would live together at some small villa residence near St. John's Wood Road,
or perhaps out at Brompton.

It is astonishing how quickly in this world of ours chaos will settle itself into decent and
graceful order, when it is properly looked in the face, and handled with a steady hand which
is not sparing of the broom. Some three months since, everything at Castle Richmond was ruin;
such ruin, indeed, that the very power of living under it seemed to be doubtful. When first
Mr. Prendergast arrived there, a feeling came upon them all as though they might hardly dare
to live in a world which would look at them as so thoroughly degraded. As regards means, they
would be beggars! and as regards position, so much worse than beggars! A broken world was in
truth falling about their ears, and it was felt to be impossible that they should endure its
convulsions and yet live.

But now the world had fallen, the ruin had come, and they were already strong in future hopes.
They had dared to look at their chaos, and found that it still contained the elements of order.
There was much still that marred their happiness, and forbade the joyousness of other days.
Their poor father had gone from them in their misery, and the house was still a house of mourning;
and their mother too, though she bore up so wonderfully against her fate, and for their sakes
hoped and planned and listened to their wishes, was a stricken woman. That she would never
smile again with any heartfelt joy they were all sure. But, nevertheless, their chaos was conquered,
and there was hope that the fields of life would again show themselves green and fruitful.

On one subject their mother never spoke to them, nor had even Herbert dared to speak to her:
not a word had been said in that house since Mr. Prendergast left it as to the future whereabouts
or future doings of that man to whom she had once given her hand at the altar. But she had
ventured to ask by letter a question of Mr. Prendergast. Her question had been this: What must
I do that he may not come to me or to my children? In answer to this Mr. Prendergast had told
her, after some delay, that he believed she need fear nothing. He had seen the man, and he
thought that he might assure her that she would not be troubled in that respect.

"It is possible," said Mr. Prendergast, "that he may apply to you by letter for money. If so,
give him no answer whatever, but send his letters to me."

"And are you all going?" asked Mrs. Townsend of Aunt Letty, with a lachrymose voice soon after
the fate of the family was decided. They were sitting together with their knees over the fire
in Mrs. Townsend's dining-parlour, in which the perilous state of the country had been discussed
by them for many a pleasant hour together.

"Well, I think we shall; you see, my sister would never be happy here."

"No, no; the shock and the change would be too great for her. Poor Lady Fitzgerald! And when
is that man coming into the house?"

"What, Owen?"

"Yes! Sir Owen I suppose he is now."

"Well, I don't know; he does not seem to be in any hurry. I believe that he has said that my
sister may continue to live there if she pleases. But of course she cannot do that."

"They do say about the country," whispered Mrs. Townsend, "that he refuses to be the heir at
all. He certainly has not had any cards printed with the title on them--I know that as a fact."

"He is a very singular man, very. You know I never could bear him," said Aunt Letty.

"No, nor I either. He has not been to our church once these six months. But it's very odd,
isn't it? Of course you know the story?"

"What story?" asked Aunt Letty.

"About Lady Clara. Owen Fitzgerald was dreadfully in love with her before your Herbert had
ever seen her. And they do say that he has sworn his cousin shall never live if he marries her."

"They can never marry now, you know. Only think of it. There would be three hundred a year
between them.--Not at present, that is," added Aunt Letty, looking forward to a future period
after her own death.

"That is very little, very little indeed," said Mrs. Townsend, remembering, however, that she
herself had married on less. "But, Miss Fitzgerald, if Herbert does not marry her do you think
this Owen will?"

"I don't think she'd have him. I am quite sure she would not."

"Not when he has all the property, and the title too?"

"No, nor double as much. What would people say of her if she did? But, however, there is no
fear, for she declares that nothing shall induce her to give up her engagement with our Herbert."

And so they discussed it backward and forward in every way, each having her own theory as to
that singular rumour which was going about the country, signifying that Owen had declined to
accept the title. Aunt Letty, however, would not believe that any good could come from so polluted
a source, and declared that he had his own reasons for the delay. "It's not for any love of
us," she said, "if he refuses to take either that or the estate." And in this she was right.
But she would have been more surprised still had she learned that Owen's forbearance arose
from a strong anxiety to do what was just in the matter.

"And so Herbert won't go into the Church?"

And Letty shook her head sorrowing.

"Aeneas would have been so glad to have taken him for a twelvemonth's reading," said Mrs. Townsend.
"He could have come here, you know, when you went away, and been ordained at Cork, and got
a curacy close in the neighbourhood, where he was known. It would have been so nice; wouldn't it?"

Aunt Letty would not exactly have advised the scheme as suggested by Mrs. Townsend. Her ideas
as to Herbert's clerical studies would have been higher than this. Trinity College, Dublin,
was in her estimation the only place left for good Church of England ecclesiastical teaching.
But as Herbert was obstinately bent on declining sacerdotal life, there was no use in dispelling
Mrs. Townsend's bright vision.

"It's all of no use," she said; "he is determined to go to the bar."

"The bar is very respectable," said Mrs. Townsend, kindly.

"And you mean to go with them, too?" said Mrs. Townsend, after another pause. "You'll hardly
be happy, I'm thinking, so far away from your old home."

"It is sad to change at my time of life," said Aunt Letty, plaintively. "I'm sixty-two now."

"Nonsense," said Mrs. Townsend, who, however, knew her age to a day.

"Sixty-two if I live another week, and I have never yet had any home but Castle Richmond. There
I was born, and till the other day I had every reason to trust that there I might die. But
what does it matter?"

"No, that's true of course, what does it matter where we are while we linger in this vale of
tears? But couldn't you get a little place for yourself somewhere near here? There's Callaghan's
cottage, with the two-acre piece for a cow, and as nice a spot of a garden as there is in the
county Cork."

"I wouldn't separate myself from her now," said Aunt Letty, "for all the cottages and all the
gardens in Ireland. The Lord has been pleased to throw us together, and together we will finish
our pilgrimage. Whither she goes, I will go, and where she lodges, I will lodge; her people
shall be my people, and her God my God." And then Mrs. Townsend said nothing further of Callaghan's
pretty cottage, or of the two-acre piece.

But one reason for her going Aunt Letty did not give, even to her friend Mrs. Townsend. Her
income, that which belonged exclusively to herself, was in no way affected by these sad Castle
Richmond revolutions. This was a comfortable,--we may say a generous provision for an old maiden
lady, amounting to some six hundred a year, settled upon her for life, and this, if added to
what could be saved and scraped together, would enable them to live comfortably, as far as
means were concerned, in that suburban villa to which they were looking forward. But without
Aunt Letty's income that suburban villa must be but a poor home. Mr. Prendergast had calculated
that some fourteen thousand pounds would represent the remaining property of the family, with
which it would be necessary to purchase government stock. Such being the case, Aunt Letty's
income was very material to them.

"I trust you will be able to find some one there who will preach the gospel to you," said Mrs.
Townsend, in a tone that showed how serious were her misgivings on the subject.

"I will search for such a one, at any rate," said Aunt Letty. "You need not be afraid that
I shall be a backslider."

"But they have crosses now over the communion tables in the churches in England," said Mrs.
Townsend.

"I know it is very bad," said Aunt Letty. "But there will always be a remnant left. The Lord
will not utterly desert us." And then she took her departure, leaving Mrs. Townsend with the
conviction that the land to which her friend was going was one in which the light of the gospel
no longer shone in its purity.

It was not wonderful that they should all be anxious to get away from Castle Richmond, for
the house there was now not a pleasant one in which to live. Let all those who have houses
and the adjuncts of houses think how considerable a part of their life's pleasures consists
in their interest in the things around them. When will the seakale be fit to cut, and when
will the crocuses come up? will the violets be sweeter than ever? and the geranium cuttings,
are they thriving? we have dug, and manured, and sown, and we look forward to the reaping,
and to see our garners full. The very furniture which ministers to our daily uses is loved
and petted; and in decorating our rooms we educate ourselves in design. The place in church
which has been our own for years,--is not that dear to us, and the voice that has told us of
God's tidings--even though the drone become more evident as it waxes in years, and though it
grows feeble and indolent? And the faces of those who have lived around us, do we not love
them too, the servants who have worked for us, and the children who have first toddled beneath
our eyes and prattled in our ears, and now run their strong races, screaming loudly, splashing
us as they pass--very unpleasantly? Do we not love them all? Do they not all contribute to
the great sum of our enjoyment? All men love such things, more or less, even though they know
it not. And women love them even more than men.

And the Fitzgeralds were about to leave them all. The early buds of spring were now showing
themselves, but how was it possible that they should look to them? One loves the bud because
one expects the flower. The seakale now was beyond their notice, and though they plucked the
crocuses, they did so with tears upon their cheeks. After much consideration the church had
been abandoned by all except Aunt Letty and Herbert. That Lady Fitzgerald should go there was
impossible, and the girls were only too glad to be allowed to stay with their mother. And the
schools in which they had taught since the first day in which teaching had been possible for
them, had to be abandoned with such true pangs of heart-felt sorrow.

From the time when their misery first came upon them, from the days when it first began to
be understood that the world had gone wrong at Castle Richmond, this separation from the schools
had commenced. The work had been dropped for a while, but the dropping had in fact been final,
and there was nothing further to be done than the saddest of all leave-taking. The girls had
sent word to the children, perhaps imprudently, that they would go down and say a word of adieu
to their pupils. The children had of course told their mothers, and when the girls reached
the two neat buildings which stood at the corner of the park, there were there to meet them,
not unnaturally, a concourse of women and children.

In former prosperous days the people about Castle Richmond had, as a rule, been better to do
than their neighbours. Money wages had been more plentiful, and there had been little or no
subletting of land; the children had been somewhat more neatly clothed, and the women less
haggard in their faces; but this difference was hardly perceptible any longer. To them, the
Miss Fitzgeralds, looking at the poverty-stricken assemblage, it almost seemed as though the
misfortune of their house had brought down its immediate consequences on all who had lived
within their circle; but this was the work of the famine. In those days one could rarely see
any member of a peasant's family bearing in his face a look of health. The yellow meal was
a useful food--the most useful, doubtless, which could at that time be found; but it was not
one that was gratifying either to the eye or palate.

The girls had almost regretted their offer before they had left the house. It would have been
better, they said to themselves, to have had the children up in the hall, and there to have
spoken their farewells, and made their little presents. The very entering those school-rooms
again would almost be too much for them; but this consideration was now too late, and when
they got to the corner of the gate, they found that there was a crowd to receive them. "Mary,
I must go back," said Emmeline, when she first saw them; but Aunt Letty, who was with them,
stepped forward, and they soon found themselves in the school-room.

"We have come to say good-bye to you all," said Aunt Letty, trying to begin a speech.

"May the heavens be yer bed then, the lot of yez, for ye war always good to the poor. May the
Blessed Virgin guide and protect ye wherever ye be"--a blessing against which Aunt Letty at
once entered a little inward protest, perturbed though she was in spirit. "May the heavens
rain glory on yer heads, for ye war always the finest family that war ever in the county Cork!"

"You know, I dare say, that we are going to leave you," continued Aunt Letty.

"We knows it, we knows it; sorrow come to them as did it all. Faix, an' there'll niver be any
good in the counthry, at all at all, when you're gone, Miss Emmeline; an' what'll we do at
all for the want of yez, and when shall we see the likes of yez? Eh, Miss Letty, but there'll
be sore eyes weeping for ye; and for her leddyship too; may the Lord Almighty bless her, and
presarve her, and carry her sowl to glory when she dies; for av there war iver a good woman
on God's 'arth, that woman is Leddy Fitzgerald."

And then Aunt Letty found that there was no necessity for her to continue her speech, and indeed
no possibility of her doing so even if she were so minded. The children began to wail and cry,
and the mothers also mixed loud sobbings with their loud prayers; and Emmeline and Mary, dissolved
in tears, sat themselves down, drawing to them the youngest bairns and those whom they had
loved the best, kissing their sallow, famine-stricken, unwholesome faces, and weeping over
them with a love of which hitherto they had been hardly conscious.

There was not much more in the way of speech possible to any of them, for even Aunt Letty was
far gone in tender wailing; and it was wonderful to see the liberties that were taken even
with that venerable bonnet. The women had first of all taken hold of her hands to kiss them,
and had kissed her feet, and her garments, and her shoulders, and then behind her back they
had made crosses on her, although they knew how dreadfully she would have raged had she caught
them polluting her by such doings; and they grasped her arms and embraced them, till at last,
those who were more daring, reached her forehead and her face, and poor old Aunt Letty, who
in her emotion could not now utter a syllable, was almost pulled to pieces among them.

Mary and Emmeline had altogether surrendered themselves, and were the centres of clusters of
children who hung upon them. And the sobs now were no longer low and tearful, but they had
grown into long, protracted groanings, and loud wailings, and clapping of hands, and tearings
of the hair. O, my reader, have you ever seen a railway train taking its departure from an
Irish station, with a freight of Irish emigrants? If so, you know how the hair is torn, and
how the hands are clapped, and how the low moanings gradually swell into notes of loud lamentation.
It means nothing, I have heard men say,--men and women too. But such men and women are wrong.
It means much; it means this: that those who are separated, not only love each other, but are
anxious to tell each other that they so love. We have all heard of demonstrative people. A
demonstrative person, I take it, is he who is desirous of speaking out what is in his heart.
For myself I am inclined to think that such speaking out has its good ends. "The faculty of
silence! is it not of all things the most beautiful?" That is the doctrine preached by a great
latter-day philosopher; for myself, I think that the faculty of speech is much more beautiful--of
speech if it be made but by howlings, and wailings, and loud clappings of the hand. What is
in a man, let it come out and be known to those around him, if it be bad it will find correction,
if it be good it will spread and be beneficent.

And then one woman made herself audible over the sobs of the crowding children; she was a gaunt,
high-boned woman, but she would have been comely, if not handsome, had not the famine come
upon her. She held a baby in her arms, and another little toddling thing had been hanging on
her dress till Emmeline had seen it, and plucked it away; and it was now sitting in her lap
quite composed, and sucking a piece of cake that had been given to it. "An' it's a bad day
for us all," said the woman, beginning in a low voice, which became louder and louder as she
went on, "it's a bad day for us all that takes away from us the only rale friends that we iver
had, and the back of my hand to them that have come in the way, bringin' sorrow, an' desolation,
an' misery on gentlefolks that have been good to the poor since iver the poor have been in
the land, rale gentlefolks, sich as there ain't no others to be found nowadays in any of these
parts. O'hone, o'hone! but it's a bad day for us and for the childer, for where shall we find
the dhrop to comfort us or the bit to ate when the sickness comes on us, as it's likely to
come now, when the Fitzgeralds is out of the counthry. May the Lord bless them, and keep them,
and presarve them, and the Holy Virgin have them in her keepin'!"

"Wh--i--s--h--h," said Aunt Letty, who could not allow such idolatry to pass by unobserved
or unrebuked.

"An' shure the blessin' of a poor woman cannot haram you," continued the mother, "an' I'll
tell you what, neighbours, it'll be a bad day for him that folk call the heir when he puts
his foot in that house."

"'Deed an' that's thrue for you, Bridget Magrath," said another voice from among the crowd
of women.

"A bad day intirely," continued the woman, with the baby; "av the house stans over his head
when he does the like o' that, there'll be no justice in the heavens."

"But, Mrs. Magrath," said Aunt Letty, trying to interrupt her, "you must not speak in that
way; you are mistaken in supposing that Mr. Owen--"

"We'll all live to see," said the woman; "for the time's comin' quick upon us now. But it's
a bad law that kills our ould masther over our heads, an' takes away from us our ould misthress.
An' as for him they calls Mr. Owen--"

But the ladies found it impossible to listen to her any longer, so with some difficulty they
extricated themselves from the crowd by which they were surrounded, and once more shaking hands
with those who were nearest to them escaped into the park, and made their way back towards
the house.

They had not expected so much demonstration, and were not a little disconcerted at the scene
which had taken place. Aunt Letty had never been so handled in her life, and hardly knew how
to make her bonnet sit comfortably on her head; and the two girls were speechless till they
were half across the park.

"I am glad we have been," said Emmeline at last, as soon as the remains of her emotion would
allow her to articulate her words.

"It would have been dreadful to have gone away without seeing them," said Mary. "Poor creatures,
poor dear creatures; we shall never again have any more people to be fond of us like that!"

"There is no knowing," said Aunt Letty; "the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away, and blessed
is the name of the Lord. You are both young, and may come back again; but for me--"

"Dear Aunt Letty, if we come back you shall come too."

"If I only thought that my bones could lie here near my brother's. But never mind; what signifies
it where our bones lie?" And then they were silent for a while, till Aunt Letty spoke again.
"I mean to be quite happy over in England; I believe I shall be happiest of you all if I can
find any clergyman who is not half perverted to idolatry."

This took place some time before the ladies left Castle Richmond,--perhaps as much as three
weeks; it was even before Herbert's departure, who started for London the day but one after
the scene here recorded; he had gone to various places to take his last farewell; to see the
Townsends at their parsonage; to call on Father Barney at Kanturk, and had even shaken hands
with the Rev. Mr. Creagh, at Gortnaclough. But one farewell visit had been put off for the
last. It was now arranged that he was to go over to Desmond Court and see Clara before he went.
There had been some difficulty in this, for Lady Desmond had at first declared that she could
not feel justified in asking him into her house; but the earl was now at home, and her ladyship
had at last given her consent: he was to see the countess first, and was afterwards to see
Clara--alone. He had declared that he would not go there unless he were to be allowed an interview
with her in private. The countess, as I have said, at last consented, trusting that her previous
eloquence might be efficacious in counteracting the ill effects of her daughter's imprudence.
On the day after that interview he was to start for London; "never to return," as he said to
Emmeline, "unless he came to seek his wife."

"But you will come to seek your wife," said Emmeline, stoutly; "I shall think you faint-hearted
if you doubt it."

CHAPTER XXXIII

THE LAST STAGE

On the day before his departure for London, Herbert Fitzgerald once more got on his horse--the
horse that was to be no longer his after that day--and rode off towards Desmond Court. He had
already perceived how foolish he had been in walking thither through the mud and rain when
last he went there, and how much he had lost by his sad appearance that day, and by his want
of personal comfort. So he dressed himself with some care--dressing not for his love, but for
the countess,--and taking his silver-mounted whip in his gloved hand, he got up on his well-groomed
nag with more spirit than he had hitherto felt.

Nothing could be better than the manner in which, at this time, the servants about Castle Richmond
conducted themselves. Most of them--indeed, all but three--had been told that they must go,
and in so telling them, the truth had been explained. It had been "found," Aunt Letty said
to one of the elder among them, that Mr. Herbert was not the heir to the property, and therefore
the family was obliged to go away. Mrs. Jones of course accompanied her mistress. Richard had
been told, both by Herbert and by Aunt Letty, that he had better remain and live on a small
patch of land that should be provided for him. But in answer to this he stated his intention
of removing himself to London. If the London air was fit for "my leddy and Miss Letty," it
would be fit for him. "It's no good any more talking, Mr. Herbert," said Richard, "I main to
go." So there was no more talking, and he did go.

But all the other servants took their month's warning with tears and blessings, and strove
one beyond another how they might best serve the ladies of the family to the end. "I'd lose
the little fingers off me to go with you, Miss Emmeline; so I would," said one poor girl,--all
in vain. If they could not keep a retinue of servants in Ireland, it was clear enough that
they could not keep them in London.

The groom who held the horse for Herbert to mount, touched his hat respectfully as his young
master rode off slowly down the avenue, and then went back to the stables to meditate with
awe on the changes which had happened in his time, and to bethink himself whether or no he
could bring himself to serve in the stables of Owen the usurper.

Herbert did not take the direct road to Desmond Court, but went round as though he were going
to Gortnaclough, and then turning away from the Gortnaclough road, made his way by a cross
lane towards Clady and the mountains. He hardly knew himself whether he had any object in this
beyond one which he did not express even to himself,--that, namely, of not being seen on the
way leading to Desmond Court. But this he did do, thereby riding out of the district with which
he was most thoroughly acquainted, and passing by cabins and patches of now deserted land which
were strange to him. It was a poor, bleak, damp, undrained country, lying beyond the confines
of his father's property, which in good days had never been pleasant to the eye, but which
now in these days--days that were so decidedly bad, was anything but pleasant. It was one of
those tracts of land which had been divided and subdivided among the cottiers till the fields
had dwindled down to parts of acres, each surrounded by rude low banks, which of themselves
seemed to occupy a quarter of the surface of the land. The original landmarks, the big earthen
banks,--banks so large that a horse might walk on the top of them,--were still visible enough,
showing to the practised eye what had once been the fields into which the land had been divided;
but these had since been bisected and crossected, and intersected by family arrangements, in
which brothers had been jealous of brothers, and fathers of their children, till each little
lot contained but a rood or two of available surface.

This had been miserable enough to look at, even when those roods had been cropped with potatoes
or oats; but now they were not cropped at all, nor was there preparation being made for cropping
them. They had been let out under the con-acre system, at so much a rood, for the potato season,
at rents amounting sometimes to ten or twelve pounds the acre; but nobody would take them now.
There, in that electoral division, the whole proceeds of such land would hardly have paid the
poor rates, and therefore the land was left uncultivated.

The winter was over, for it was now April, and had any tillage been intended, it would have
been commenced--even in Ireland. It was the beginning of April, but the weather was still stormy
and cold, and the east wind, which, as a rule, strikes Ireland with but a light land, was blowing
sharply. On a sudden a squall of rain came on,--one of those spring squalls which are so piercingly
cold, but which are sure to pass by rapidly, if the wayfarer will have patience to wait for
them. Herbert, remembering his former discomfiture, resolved that he would have such patience,
and dismounting from his horse at a cabin on the roadside, entered it himself, and led his
horse in after him. In England no one would think of taking his steed into a poor man's cottage,
and would hardly put his beast into a cottager's shed without leave asked and granted, but
people are more intimate with each other, and take greater liberties in Ireland. It is no uncommon
thing on a wet hunting-day to see a cabin packed with horses, and the children moving about
among them, almost as unconcernedly as though the animals were pigs. But then the Irish horses
are so well mannered and good-natured.

The cabin was one abutting as it were on the road, not standing back upon the land, as is most
customary; and it was built in an angle at a spot where the road made a turn, so that two sides
of it stood close out in the wayside. It was small and wretched to look at, without any sort
of outside shed, or even a scrap of potato-garden attached to it,--a miserable, low-roofed,
damp, ragged tenement, as wretched as any that might be seen even in the county Cork.

But the nakedness of the exterior was as nothing to the nakedness of the interior. When Herbert
entered, followed by his horse, his eye glanced round the dark place, and it seemed to be empty
of everything. There was no fire on the hearth, though a fire on the hearth is the easiest
of all luxuries for an Irishman to acquire, and the last which he is willing to lose. There
was not an article of furniture in the whole place; neither chairs, nor table, nor bed, nor
dresser; there was there neither dish, nor cup, nor plate, nor even the iron pot in which all
the cookery of the Irish cottiers' menage is usually carried on. Beneath his feet was the damp
earthen floor, and around him were damp, cracked walls, and over his head was the old lumpy
thatch, through which the water was already dropping; but inside was to be seen none of those
articles of daily use which are usually to be found in the houses even of the poorest.

But, nevertheless, the place was inhabited. Squatting in the middle of the cabin, seated on
her legs crossed under her, with nothing between her and the wet earth, there crouched a woman
with a child in her arms. At first, so dark was the place, Herbert hardly thought that the
object before him was a human being. She did not move when he entered, or speak to him, or
in any way show sign of surprise that he should have come there. There was room for him and
his horse without pushing her from her place; and, as it seemed, he might have stayed there
and taken his departure without any sign having been made by her.

But as his eyes became used to the light he saw her eyes gleaming brightly through the gloom.
They were very large and bright as they turned round upon him while he moved--large and bright,
but with a dull, unwholesome brightness,--a brightness that had in it none of the light of life.

And then he looked at her more closely. She had on her some rag of clothing which barely sufficed
to cover her nakedness, and the baby which she held in her arms was covered in some sort; but
he could see, as he came to stand close over her, that these garments were but loose rags which
were hardly fastened round her body. Her rough short hair hung down upon her back, clotted
with dirt, and the head and face of the child which she held was covered with dirt and sores.
On no more wretched object, in its desolate solitude, did the eye of man ever fall.

In those days there was a form of face which came upon the sufferers when their state of misery
was far advanced, and which was a sure sign that their last stage of misery was nearly run.
The mouth would fall and seem to hang, the lips at the two ends of the mouth would be dragged
down, and the lower parts of the cheeks would fall as though they had been dragged and pulled.
There were no signs of acute agony when this phasis of countenance was to be seen, none of
the horrid symptoms of gnawing hunger by which one generally supposes that famine is accompanied.
The look is one of apathy, desolation, and death. When custom had made these signs easily legible,
the poor doomed wretch was known with certainty. "It's no use in life meddling with him; he's
gone," said a lady to me in the far west of the south of Ireland, while the poor boy, whose
doom was thus spoken, stood by listening. Her delicacy did not equal her energy in doing good,--for
she did much good; but in truth it was difficult to be delicate when the hands were so full.
And then she pointed out to me the signs on the lad's face, and I found that her reading was
correct.

The famine was not old enough at the time of which we are speaking for Herbert to have learned
all this, or he would have known that there was no hope left in this world for the poor creature
whom he saw before him. The skin of her cheek had fallen, and her mouth was dragged, and the
mark of death was upon her; but the agony of want was past. She sat there listless, indifferent,
hardly capable of suffering, even for her child, waiting her doom unconsciously.

As he had entered without eliciting a word from her, so might he have departed without any
outward sign of notice; but this would have been impossible on his part. "I have come in out
of the rain for shelter," said he, looking down on her.

"Out o' the rain, is it?" said she, still fixing on him her glassy bright eyes. "Yer honour's
welcome thin." But she did not attempt to move, nor show any of those symptoms of reverence
which are habitual to the Irish when those of a higher rank enter their cabins.

"You seem to be very poorly off here," said Herbert, looking round the bare walls of the cabin.
"Have you no chair, and no bed to lie on?"

"'Deed, no," said she.

"And no fire?" said he, for the damp and chill of the place struck through to his bones.

"'Deed, no," she said again; but she made no wail as to her wants, and uttered no complaint
as to her misery.

"And are you living here by yourself, without furniture or utensils of any kind?"

"It's jist as yer honour sees it," answered she.

For a while Herbert stood still, looking round him, for the woman was so motionless and uncommunicative
that he hardly knew how to talk to her. That she was in the lowest depth of distress was evident
enough, and it behoved him to administer to her immediate wants before he left her; but what
could he do for one who seemed to be so indifferent to herself? He stood for a time looking
round him till he could see through the gloom that there was a bundle of straw lying in the
dark corner beyond the hearth, and that the straw was huddled up, as though there were something
lying under it. Seeing this he left the bridle of his horse, and, stepping across the cabin,
moved the straw with the handle of his whip. As he did so he turned his back from the wall
in which the small window-hole had been pierced, so that a gleam of light fell upon the bundle
at his feet, and he could see that the body of a child was lying there, stripped of every vestige
of clothing.

For a minute or two he said nothing--hardly indeed, knowing how to speak, and looking from
the corpse-like woman back to the lifelike corpse, and then from the corpse back to the woman,
as though he expected that she would say something unasked. But she did not say a word, though
she so turned her head that her eyes rested on him.

He then knelt down and put his hand upon the body, and found that it was not yet stone cold.
The child apparently had been about four years old, while that still living in her arms might
perhaps be half that age.

"Was she your own?" asked Herbert, speaking hardly above his breath.

"'Deed, yes!" said the woman. "She was my own, own little Kittie." But there was no tear in
her eye or gurgling sob audible from her throat.

"And when did she die?" he asked.

"'Deed, thin, and I don't jist know--not exactly;" and sinking lower down upon her haunches,
she put up to her forehead the hand with which she had supported herself on the floor--the
hand which was not occupied with the baby, and pushing back with it the loose hairs from her
face, tried to make an effort at thinking.

"She was alive in the night, wasn't she?" he said.

"I b'lieve thin she was, yer honour. 'Twas broad day, I'm thinking, when she guv' over moaning.
She warn't that way when he went away."

"And who's he?"

"Jist Mike, thin."

"And is Mike your husband?" he asked. She was not very willing to talk; but it appeared at
last that Mike was her husband, and that having become a cripple through rheumatism, he had
not been able to work on the roads. In this condition he and his should of course have gone
into a poor-house. It was easy enough to give such advice in such cases when one came across
them, and such advice when given at that time was usually followed; but there were so many
who had no advice, who could get no aid, who knew not which way to turn themselves! This wretched
man had succeeded in finding some one who would give him his food--food enough to keep himself
alive--for such work as he could do in spite of his rheumatism, and this work to the last he
would not abandon. Even this was better to him than the poor-house. But then, as long as a
man found work out of the poor-house, his wife and children would not be admitted into it.
They would not be admitted if the fact of the working husband was known. The rule in itself
was salutary, as without it a man could work, earning such wages as were adjudged to be needful
for a family, and at the same time send his wife and children to be supported on the rates.
But in some cases, such as this, it pressed very cruelly. Exceptions were of course made in
such cases, if they were known: but then it was so hard to know them!

This man Mike, the husband of that woman, and the father of those children, alive and dead,
had now gone to his work, leaving his home without one morsel of food within it, and the wife
of his bosom and children of his love without the hope of getting any. And then looking closely
round him, Herbert could see that a small basin or bowl lay on the floor near her, capable
of holding perhaps a pint; and on lifting it he saw that there still clung to it a few grains
of uncooked Indian corn-flour--the yellow meal, as it was called. Her husband, she said at
last, had brought home with him in his cap a handful of this flour, stolen from the place where
he was working--perhaps a quarter of a pound, then worth over a farthing, and she had mixed
this with water in a basin; and this was the food which had sustained her, or rather had not
sustained her, since yesterday morning--her and her two children, the one that was living and
the one that was dead.

Such was her story, told by her in the fewest of words. And then he asked her as to her hopes
for the future. But though she cared, as it seemed, but little for the past, for the future
she cared less. "'Deed, thin, an' I don't jist know." She would say no more than that, and
would not even raise her voice to ask for alms when he pitied her in her misery. But with her
the agony of death was already over.

"And the child that you have in your arms," he said, "is it not cold?" And he stood close over
her, and put out his hand and touched the baby's body. As he did so, she made some motion as
though to arrange the clothing closer round the child's limbs, but Herbert could see that she
was making an effort to hide her own nakedness. It was the only effort that she made while
he stood there beside her.

"Is she not cold?" he said again, when he had turned his face away to relieve her from her
embarrassment.

"Cowld," she muttered, with a vacant face and wondering tone of voice, as though she did not
quite understand him. "I suppose she is could. Why wouldn't she be could? We're could enough,
if that's all." But still she did not stir from the spot on which she sat; and the child, though
it gave from time to time a low moan that was almost inaudible, lay still in her arms, with
its big eyes staring into vacancy.

He felt that he was stricken with horror as he remained there in the cabin with the dying woman
and the naked corpse of the poor dead child. But what was he to do? He could not go and leave
them without succour. The woman had made no plaint of her suffering, and had asked for nothing;
but he felt that it would be impossible to abandon her without offering her relief; nor was
it possible that he should leave the body of the child in that horribly ghastly state. So he
took from his pocket his silk handkerchief, and, returning to the corner of the cabin, spread
it as a covering over the corpse. At first he did not like to touch the small, naked, dwindled
remains of humanity from which life had fled; but gradually he overcame his disgust, and kneeling
down, he straightened the limbs and closed the eyes, and folded the handkerchief round the
slender body. The mother looked on him the while, shaking her head slowly, as though asking
him with all the voice that was left to her, whether it were not piteous; but of words she
still uttered none.

And then he took from his pocket a silver coin or two, and tendered them to her. These she
did take, muttering some word of thanks, but they caused in her no emotion of joy. "She was
there waiting," she said, "till Mike should return," and there she would still wait, even though
she should die with the silver in her hand.

"I will send some one to you," he said, as he took his departure; "some one that shall take
the poor child and bury it, and who shall move you and the other one into the workhouse." She
thanked him once more with some low muttered words, but the promise brought her no joy. And
when the succour came it was all too late, for the mother and the two children never left the
cabin till they left it together, wrapped in their workhouse shrouds.

Herbert, as he remounted his horse and rode quietly on, forgot for a while both himself and
Clara Desmond. Whatever might be the extent of his own calamity, how could he think himself
unhappy after what he had seen? how could he repine at aught that the world had done for him,
having now witnessed to how low a state of misery a fellow human being might be brought? Could
he, after that, dare to consider himself unfortunate?

Before he reached Desmond Court he did make some arrangements for the poor woman, and directed
that a cart might be sent for her, so that she might be carried to the union workhouse at Kanturk.
But his efforts in her service were of little avail. People then did not think much of a dying
woman, and were in no special hurry to obey Herbert's behest.

"A woman to be carried to the union, is it? For Mr. Fitzgerald, eh? What Mr. Fitzgerald says
must be done, in course. But sure av' it's done before dark, won't that be time enough for
the likes of her?"

But had they flown to the spot on the wings of love, it would not have sufficed to prolong
her life one day. Her doom had been spoken before Herbert had entered the cabin.

CHAPTER XXXIV

FAREWELL

He was two hours later than he had intended as he rode up the avenue to Lady Desmond's gate,
and his chief thought at the moment was how he should describe to the countess the scene he
had just witnessed. Why describe it at all? That is what we should all say. He had come there
to talk about other things--about other things which must be discussed, and which would require
all his wits. Let him keep that poor woman on his mind, but not embarrass himself with any
mention of her for the present. This, no doubt, would have been wise if only it had been possible;
but out of the full heart the mouth speaks.

But Lady Desmond had not witnessed the scene which I have attempted to describe, and her heart,
therefore, was not full of it, and was not inclined to be so filled. And so, in answer to Herbert's
exclamation, "Oh, Lady Desmond, I have seen such a sight!" she gave him but little encouragement
to describe it, and by her coldness, reserve, and dignity, soon quelled the expression of his
feelings.

The earl was present, and shook hands very cordially with Herbert when he entered the room;
and he, being more susceptible as being younger, and not having yet become habituated to the
famine as his mother was, did express some eager sympathy. He would immediately go down, or
send Fahy with the car, and have her brought up and saved, but his mother had other work to
do, and soon put a stop to all this.

"Mr. Fitzgerald," said she, speaking with a smile upon her face, and with much high-bred dignity
of demeanour, "as you and Lady Clara both wish to see each other before you leave the country,
and as you have known each other so intimately, and considering all the circumstances, I have
not thought it well absolutely to forbid an interview. But I do doubt its expediency; I do,
indeed. And Lord Desmond, who feels for your late misfortune as we all do, perfectly agrees
with me. He thinks that it would be much wiser for you both to have parted without the pain
of a meeting, seeing how impossible it is that you should ever be more to each other than you
are now." And then she appealed to her son, who stood by, looking not quite so wise, nor even
quite so decided as his mother's words would seem to make him.

"Well, yes; upon my word I don't see how it's to be," said the young earl. "I am deuced sorry
for it for one, and I wish I was well off, so that I could give Clara a pot of money, and then
I should not care so much about your not being the baronet."

"I am sure you must see, Mr. Fitzgerald, and I know that you do see it because you have very
properly said so, that a marriage between you and Lady Clara is now impossible. For her such
an engagement would be very bad--very bad indeed; but for you it would be utter ruin. Indeed,
it would be ruin for you both. Unencumbered as you will be, and with the good connection which
you will have, and with your excellent talents, it will be quite within your reach to win for
yourself a high position. But with you, as with other gentlemen who have to work their way,
marriage must come late in life, unless you marry an heiress. This I think is thoroughly understood
by all people in our position; and I am sure that it is understood by your excellent mother,
for whom I always had and still have the most unfeigned respect. As this is so undoubtedly
the case, and as I cannot of course consent that Lady Clara should remain hampered by an engagement
which would in all human probability hang over the ten best years of her life, I thought it
wise that you should not see each other. I have, however, allowed myself to be overruled, and
now I must only trust to your honour, forbearance, and prudence to protect my child from what
might possibly be the ill effects of her own affectionate feelings. That she is romantic,--enthusiastic
to a fault, I should perhaps rather call it--I need not tell you. She thinks that your misfortune
demands from her a sacrifice of herself; but you, I know, will feel that, even were such a
sacrifice available to you, it would not become you to accept it. Because you have fallen,
you will not wish to drag her down; more especially as you can rise again--and she could not."

So spoke the countess, with much worldly wisdom, and with considerable tact in adjusting her
words to the object which she had in view. Herbert, as he stood before her silent during the
period of her oration, did feel that it would be well for him to give up his love, and go away
in utter solitude of heart to those dingy studies which Mr. Prendergast was preparing for him.
His love, or rather the assurance of Clara's love, had been his great consolation. But what
right had he, with all the advantages of youth, and health, and friends, and education, to
require consolation? And then from moment to moment he thought of the woman whom he had left
in the cabin, and confessed that he did not dare to call himself unhappy.

He had listened attentively, although he did thus think of other eloquence besides that of
the countess--of the eloquence of that silent, solitary, dying woman; but when she had done
he hardly knew what to say for himself. She did make him feel that it would be ungenerous in
him to persist in his engagement; but then again, Clara's letters and his sister's arguments
had made him feel that it was impossible to abandon it. They pleaded of heart-feelings so well
that he could not resist them; and the countess--she pleaded so well as to world's prudence
that he could not resist her.

"I would not willingly do anything to injure Lady Clara," he said.

"That's what we all knew," said the young earl. "You see, what is a girl to do like her? Love
in a cottage is all very well, and all that; and as for riches, I don't care about them. It
would be a pity if I did, for I shall be about the poorest nobleman in the three kingdoms,
I suppose. But a chap when he marries should have something; shouldn't he now?"

To tell the truth the earl had been very much divided in his opinions since he had come home,
veering round a point or two this way or a point or two that, in obedience to the blast of
eloquence to which he might be last subjected. But latterly the idea had grown upon him that
Clara might possibly marry Owen Fitzgerald. There was about Owen a strange fascination which
all felt who had once loved him. To the world he was rough and haughty, imperious in his commands,
and exacting even in his fellowship; but to the few whom he absolutely loved, whom he had taken
into his heart's core, no man ever was more tender or more gracious. Clara, though she had
resolved to banish him from her heart, had found it impossible to do so till Herbert's misfortunes
had given him a charm in her eyes which was not all his own. Clara's mother had loved him--had
loved him as she never before had loved; and now she loved him still, though she had so strongly
determined that her love should be that of a mother, and not that of a wife. And the young
earl, now that Owen's name was again rife in his ears, remembered all the pleasantness of former
days. He had never again found such a companion as Owen had been. He had met no other friend
to whom he could talk of sport and a man's outward pleasures when his mind was that way given,
and to whom he could also talk of soft inward things,--the heart's feelings, and aspirations,
and wants. Owen would be as tender with him as a woman, allowing the young lad's arm round
his body, listening to words which the outer world would have called bosh--and have derided
as girlish. So at least thought the young earl to himself. And all boys long to be allowed
utterance occasionally for these soft tender things;--as also do all men, unless the devil's
share in the world has become altogether uppermost with them.

And the young lad's heart hankered after his old friend. He had listened to his sister, and
for a while had taken her part; but his mother had since whispered to him that Owen would now
be the better suitor, the preferable brother-in-law; and that in fact Clara loved Owen the
best, though she felt herself bound by honour to his kinsman. And then she reminded her son
of Clara's former love for Owen--a love which he himself had witnessed; and he thought of the
day when with so much regret he had told his friend that he was unsuited to wed with an earl's
penniless daughter. Of the subsequent pleasantness which had come with Herbert's arrival, he
had seen little or nothing. He had been told by letter that Herbert Fitzgerald, the prosperous
heir of Castle Richmond, was to be his future brother-in-law, and he had been satisfied. But
now, if Owen could return--how pleasant it would be!

"But a chap when he marries should have something; shouldn't he now?" So spoke the young earl,
re-echoing his mother's prudence.

Herbert did not quite like this interference on the boy's part. Was he to explain to a young
lad from Eton what his future intentions were with reference to his mode of living and period
of marriage? "Of course," he said, addressing himself to the countess, "I shall not insist
on an engagement made under such different circumstances."

"Nor will you allow her to do so through a romantic feeling of generosity," said the countess.

"You should know your own daughter, Lady Desmond, better than I do," he answered; "but I cannot
say what I may do at her instance till I shall have seen her."

"Do you mean to say that you will allow a girl of her age to talk you into a proceeding which
you know to be wrong?"

"I will allow no one," he said, "to talk me into a proceeding which I know to be wrong; nor
will I allow any one to talk me out of a proceeding which I believe to be right." And then,
having uttered these somewhat grandiloquent words, he shut himself up as though there were
no longer any need for discussing the subject.

"My poor child!" said the countess, in a low tremulous voice, as though she did not intend
him to hear them. "My poor unfortunate child!" Herbert as he did hear them thought of the woman
in the cabin, and of her misfortunes and of her children. "Come, Patrick," continued the countess,
"it is perhaps useless for us to say anything further at present. If you will remain here,
Mr. Fitzgerald, for a minute or two, I will send Lady Clara to wait upon you;" and then curtsying
with great dignity she withdrew, and the young earl scuffled out after her. "Mamma," he said,
as he went, "he is determined that he will have her."

"My poor child!" answered the countess.

"And if I were in his place I should be determined also. You may as well give it up. Not but
that I like Owen a thousand times the best."

Herbert did wait there for some five minutes, and then the door was opened very gently, was
gently closed again, and Clara Desmond was in the room. He came towards her respectfully, holding
out his hand that he might take hers; but before he had thought of how she would act she was
in his arms. Hitherto, of all betrothed maidens, she had been the most retiring. Sometimes
he had thought her cold when she had left the seat by his side to go and nestle closely by
his sister. She had avoided the touch of his hand and the pressure of his arm, and had gone
from him speechless, if not with anger then with dismay, when he had carried the warmth of
his love beyond the touch of his hand or the pressure of his arm. But now she rushed into his
embrace and hid her face upon his shoulder, as though she were over glad to return to the heart
from which those around her had endeavoured to banish her. Was he or was he not to speak of
his love? That had been the question which he had asked himself when left alone there for those
five minutes, with the eloquence of the countess ringing in his ears. Now that question had
in truth been answered for him.

"Herbert," she said, "Herbert! I have so sorrowed for you; but I know that you have borne it
like a man."

She was thinking of what he had now half forgotten,--the position which he had lost, those
hopes which had all been shipwrecked, his title surrendered to another, and his lost estates.
She was thinking of them as the loss affected him, but he, he had reconciled himself to all
that,--unless all that were to separate him from his promised bride.

"Dearest Clara," he said, with his arm close round her waist, while neither anger nor dismay
appeared to disturb the sweetness of that position, "the letter which you wrote me has been
my chief comfort." Now if he had any intention of liberating Clara from the bond of her engagement,--if
he really had any feeling that it behoved him not to involve her in the worldly losses which
had come upon him,--he was taking a very bad way of carrying out his views in that respect.
Instead of confessing the comfort which he had received from that letter, and holding her close
to his breast while he did confess it, he should have stood away from her--quite as far apart
as he had done from the countess; and he should have argued with her, showing her how foolish
and imprudent her letter had been, explaining that it behoved her now to repress her feelings,
and teaching her that peers' daughters as well as housemaids should look out for situations
which would suit them, guided by prudence and a view to the wages,--not follow the dictates
of impulse and of the heart. This is what he should have done, according, I believe, to the
views of most men and women. Instead of that he held her there as close as he could hold her,
and left her to do the most of the speaking. I think he was right. According to my ideas woman's
love should be regarded as fair prize of war,--as long as the war has been earned on with due
adherence to the recognized law of nations. When it has been fairly won, let it be firmly held.
I have no opinion of that theory of giving up.

"You knew that I would not abandon you! Did you not know it? say that you knew it?" said Clara,
and then she insisted on having an answer.

"I could hardly dare to think that there was so much happiness left for me," said Herbert.

"Then you were a traitor to your love, sir; a false traitor." But deep as was the offence for
which she arraigned him, it was clear to see that the pardon came as quick as the conviction.
"And was Emmeline so untrue to me also as to believe that?"

"Emmeline said--" and then he told her what Emmeline had said.

"Dearest, dearest Emmeline! give her a whole cart-load of love from me; now mind you do,--and
to Mary, too. And remember this, sir; that I love Emmeline ten times better than I do you;
twenty times--, because she knew me. Oh, if she had mistrusted me--!"

"And do you think that I mistrusted you?"

"Yes, you did; you know you did, sir. You wrote and told me so;--and now, this very day, you
come here to act as though you mistrusted me still. You know you have, only you have not the
courage to go on with the acting."

And then he began to defend himself, showing how ill it would have become him to have kept
her bound to her engagements had she feared poverty as most girls in her position would have
feared it. But on this point she would not hear much from him, lest the very fact of her hearing
it should make it seem that such a line of conduct were possible to her.

"You know nothing about most girls, sir, or about any, I am afraid; not even about one. And
if most girls were frightfully heartless, which they are not, what right had you to liken me
to most girls? Emmeline knew better, and why could not you take her as a type of most girls?
You have behaved very badly, Master Herbert, and you know it; and nothing on earth shall make
me forgive you; nothing--but your promise that you will not so misjudge me any more." And then
the tears came to his eyes, and her face was again hidden on his shoulder.

It was not very probable that after such a commencement the interview would terminate in a
manner favourable to the wishes of the countess. Clara swore to her lover that she had given
him all that she had to give,--her heart, and will, and very self; and swore, also, that she
could not and would not take back the gift. She would remain as she was now as long as he thought
proper, and would come to him whenever he should tell her that his home was large enough for
them both. And so that matter was settled between them.

Then she had much to say about his mother and sisters, and a word too about his poor father.
And now that it was settled between them so fixedly, that come what might they were to float
together in the same boat down the river of life, she had a question or two also to ask, and
her approbation to give or to withhold, as to his future prospects. He was not to think, she
told him, of deciding on anything without at any rate telling her. So he had to explain to
her all the family plans, making her know why he had decided on the law as his own path to
fortune, and asking for and obtaining her consent to all his proposed measures.

In this way her view of the matter became more and more firmly adopted as that which should
be the view resolutely to be taken by them both. The countess had felt that that interview
would be fatal to her; and she had been right. But how could she have prevented it? Twenty
times she had resolved that she would prevent it; but twenty times she had been forced to confess
that she was powerless to do so. In these days a mother even can only exercise such power over
a child as public opinion permits her to use. "Mother, it was you who brought us together,
and you cannot separate us now." That had always been Clara's argument, leaving the countess
helpless, except as far as she could work on Herbert's generosity. That she had tried,--and,
as we have seen, been foiled there also. If only she could have taken her daughter away while
the Castle Richmond family were still mersed in the bitter depth of their suffering,--at that
moment when the blows were falling on them! Then, indeed, she might have done something; but
she was not like other titled mothers. In such a step as this she was absolutely without the means.

Thus talking together they remained closeted fora most unconscionable time. Clara had had her
purpose to carry out, and to Herbert the moments had been too precious to cause him any regret
as they passed. But now at last a knock was heard at the door, and Lady Desmond, without waiting
for an answer to it, entered the room. Clara immediately started from her seat, not as though
she were either guilty or tremulous, but with a brave resolve to go on with her purposed plan.

"Mamma," she said, "it is fixed now; it cannot be altered now."

"What is fixed, Clara?"

"Herbert and I have renewed our engagement, and nothing must now break it, unless we die."

"Mr. Fitzgerald, if this be true your conduct to my daughter has been unmanly as well as ungenerous."

"Lady Desmond, it is true; and I think that my conduct is neither unmanly nor ungenerous."

"Your own relations are against you, sir."

"What relations?" asked Clara, sharply.

"I am not speaking to you, Clara; your absurdity and romance are so great that I cannot speak
to you."

"What relations, Herbert?" again asked Clara; for she would not for the world have had Lady
Fitzgerald against her.

"Lady Desmond has, I believe, seen my Aunt Letty two or three times lately; I suppose she must
mean her."

"Oh," said Clara, turning away as though she were now satisfied. And then Herbert, escaping
from the house as quickly as he could, rode home with a renewal of that feeling of triumph
which he had once enjoyed before when returning from Desmond Court to Castle Richmond.

On the next day Herbert started for London. The parting was sad enough, and the occasion of
it was such that it could hardly be otherwise. "I am quite sure of one thing," he said to his
sister Emmeline, "I shall never see Castle Richmond again." And, indeed, one may say that small
as might be his chance of doing so, his wish to do so must be still less. There could be no
possible inducement to him to come back to a place which had so nearly been his own, and the
possession of which he had lost in so painful a manner. Every tree about the place, every path
across the wide park, every hedge and ditch and hidden leafy corner, had had for him a special
interest,--for they had all been his own. But all that was now over. They were not only not
his own, but they belonged to one who was mounting into his seat of power over his head.

He had spent the long evening before his last dinner in going round the whole demesne alone,
so that no eye should witness what he felt. None but those who have known the charms of a country-house
early in life can conceive the intimacy to which a man attains with all the various trifling
objects round his own locality; how he knows the bark of every tree, and the bend of every
bough; how he has marked where the rich grass grows in tufts, and where the poorer soil is
always dry and bare; how he watches the nests of the rooks, and the holes of the rabbits, and
has learned where the thrushes build, and can show the branch on which the linnet sits. All
these things had been dear to Herbert, and they all required at his hand some last farewell.
Every dog, too, he had to see, and to lay his hand on the neck of every horse. This making
of his final adieu under such circumstances was melancholy enough.

And then, too, later in the evening, after dinner, all the servants were called into the parlour
that he might shake hands with them. There was not one of them who had not hoped, as lately
as three months since, that he or she would live to call Herbert Fitzgerald master. Indeed,
he had already been their master--their young master. All Irish servants especially love to
pay respect to the "young masther;" but Herbert now was to be their master no longer, and the
probability was that he would never see one of them again.

He schooled himself to go through the ordeal with a manly gait and with dry eyes, and he did
it; but their eyes were not dry, not even those of the men. Mrs. Jones and a favourite girl
whom the young ladies patronized were not of the number, for it had been decided that they
should follow the fortunes of their mistress; but Richard was there, standing a little apart
from the others, as being now on a different footing. He was to go also, but before the scene
was over he also had taken to sobbing violently.

"I wish you all well and happy," said Herbert, making his little speech, "and regret deeply
that the intercourse between us should be thus suddenly severed. You have served me and mine
well and truly, and it is hard upon you now, that you should be bid to go and seek another
home elsewhere."

"It isn't that we mind, Mr. Herbert; it ain't that as frets us," said one of the men.

"It ain't that at all, at all," said Richard, doing chorus; "but that yer honour should be
robbed of what is yer honour's own."

"But you all know that we cannot help it," continued Herbert; "a misfortune has come upon us
which nobody could have foreseen, and therefore we are obliged to part with our old friends
and servants."

At the word friends the maid-servants all sobbed. "And 'deed we is your frinds, and true frinds,
too," wailed the cook.

"I know you are, and it grieves me to feel that I shall see you no more. But you must not be
led to think by what Richard says that anybody is depriving me of that which ought to be my
own. I am now leaving Castle Richmond because it is not my own, but justly belongs to another,--to
another who, I must in justice tell you, is in no hurry to claim his inheritance. We none of
us have any ground for displeasure against the present owner of this place, my cousin, Sir
Owen Fitzgerald."

"We don't know nothing about Sir Owen," said one voice.

"And don't want," said another, convulsed with sobs.

"He's a very good sort of young gentleman--of his own kind, no doubt," said Richard.

"But you can all of you understand," continued Herbert, "that as this place is no longer our
own, we are obliged to leave it; and as we shall live in a very different way in the home to
which we are going, we are obliged to part with you, though we have no reason to find fault
with any one among you. I am going to-morrow morning early, and my mother and sisters will
follow after me in a few weeks. It will be a sad thing too for them to say good-bye to you
all, as it is for me now; but it cannot be helped. God bless you all, and I hope that you will
find good masters and kind mistresses, with whom you may live comfortably, as I hope you have
done here."

"We can't find no other mistresses like her leddyship," sobbed out the senior housemaid.

"There ain't niver such a one in the county Cork," said the cook; "in a week of Sundays you
wouldn't hear the breath out of her above her own swait nathural voice."

"I've driv' her since iver--" began Richard; but he was going to say since ever she was married,
but he remembered that this allusion would be unbecoming, so he turned his face to the doorpost,
and began to wail bitterly.

And then Herbert shook hands with them all, and it was pretty to see how the girls wiped their
hands in their aprons before they gave them to him, and how they afterwards left the room with
their aprons up to their faces. The women walked out first, and then the men, hanging down
their heads, and muttering as they went, each some little prayer that fortune and prosperity
might return to the house of Fitzgerald. The property might go, but according to their views
Herbert was always, and always would be, the head of the house. And then, last of all, Richard
went. "There ain't one of 'em, Mr. Herbert, as wouldn't guv his fist to go wid yer, and think
nothing about the wages."

He was to start very early, and his packing was all completed that night. "I do so wish we
were going with you," said Emmeline, sitting in his room on the top of a corded box, which
was to follow him by some slower conveyance.

"And I do so wish I was staying with you," said he.

"What is the good of staying here now?" said she; "what pleasure can there be in it? I hardly
dare to go outside the house door for fear I should be seen."

"But why? We have done nothing that we need be ashamed of."

"No; I know that. But, Herbert, do you not find that the pity of the people is hard to bear?
It is written in their eyes, and meets one at every turn."

"We shall get rid of that very soon. In a few months we shall be clean forgotten."

"I do not know about being forgotten."

"You will be as clean forgotten,--as though you had never existed. And all these servants who
are now so fond of us, in three months' time will be just as fond of Owen Fitzgerald, if he
will let them stay here; it's the way of the world."

That Herbert should have indulged in a little morbid misanthropy on such an occasion was not
surprising. But I take leave to think that he was wrong in his philosophy; we do make new friends
when we lose our old friends, and the heart is capable of cure as is the body; were it not
so, how terrible would be our fate in this world! But we are so apt to find fault with God's
goodness to us in this respect, arguing, of others if not of ourselves, that the heart once
widowed should remain a widow through all rime. I, for one, think that the heart should receive
its new spouses with what alacrity it may, and always with thankfulness.

"I suppose Lady Desmond will let us see Clara," said Emmeline.

"Of course you must see her. If you knew how much she talks about you, you would not think
of leaving Ireland without seeing her."

"Dear Clara! I am sure she does not love me better than I do her. But suppose that Lady Desmond
won't let us see her! and I know that it will be so. That grave old man with the bald head
will come out and say that 'the Lady Clara is not at home,' and then we shall have to leave
without seeing her. But it does not matter with her as it might with others, for I know that
her heart will be with us."

"If you write beforehand to say that you are coming, and explain that you are doing so to say
good-bye, then I think they will admit you."

"Yes; and the countess would take care to be there, so that I could not say one word to Clara
about you. Oh, Herbert! I would give anything if I could have her here for one day,--only for
one day." But when they talked it over they both of them decided that this would not be practicable.
Clara could not stay away from her own house without her mother's leave, and it was not probable
that her mother would give her permission to stay at Castle Richmond.

CHAPTER XXXV

HERBERT FITZGERALD IN LONDON

On the following morning the whole household was up and dressed very early. Lady Fitzgerald--the
poor lady made many futile attempts to drop her title, but hitherto without any shadow of success--Lady
Fitzgerald was down in the breakfast parlour at seven, as also were Aunt Letty, and Mary, and
Emmeline. Herbert had begged his mother not to allow herself to be disturbed, alleging that
there was no cause, seeing that they all so soon would meet in London; but she was determined
that she would superintend his last meal at Castle Richmond. The servants brought in the trays
with melancholy silence, and now that the absolute moment of parting had come the girls could
not speak lest the tears should come and choke them. It was not that they were about to part
with him; that parting would only be for a month. But he was now about to part from all that
ought to have been his own. He sat down at the table in his accustomed place, with a forced
smile on his face, but without a word, and his sisters put before him his cup of tea, and the
slice of ham that had been cut for him, and his portion of bread. That he was making an effort
they all saw. He bowed his head down over the tea to sip it, and took the knife in his hand,
and then he looked up at them, for he knew that their eyes were on him; he looked up at them
to show that he could still endure it. But, alas! he could not endure it. The struggle was
too much for him; he pushed his plate violently from him into the middle of the table, and
dropping his head upon his hands, he burst forth into audible lamentations.

Oh, my friends! be not hard on him in that he was thus weeping like a woman. It was not for
his lost wealth that he was wailing, nor even for the name or splendour that could be no longer
his; nor was it for his father's memory, though he had truly loved his father; nor for his
mother's sorrow, or the tragedy of her life's history. For none of these things were his tears
flowing and his sobs coming so violently that it nearly choked him to repress them. Nor could
he himself have said why he was weeping.

It was the hundred small things from which he was parting for ever that thus disturbed him.
The chair on which he sat, the carpet on the floor, the table on which he leaned, the dull
old picture of his great-grandfather over the fire-place,--they were all his old familiar friends,
they were all part of Castle Richmond,--of that Castle Richmond which he might never be allowed
to see again.

His mother and sisters came to him, hanging over him, and they joined their tears together.
"Do not tell her that I was like this," said he at last.

"She will love you the better for it if she has a true woman's heart within her breast," said
his mother.

"As true a heart as ever breathed," said Emmeline, through her sobs.

And then they pressed him to eat, but it was in vain. He knew that the food would choke him
if he attempted it. So he gulped down the cup of tea, and with one kiss to his mother he rushed
from them, refusing Aunt Letty's proffered embrace, passing through the line of servants without
another word to one of them, and burying himself in the post-chaise which was to carry him
the first stage on his melancholy journey.

It was a melancholy journey all through. From the time that he left the door at Castle Richmond
that was no longer his own, till he reached the Euston Station in London, he spoke no word
to any one more than was absolutely necessary for the purposes of his travelling. Nothing could
be more sad than the prospect of his residence in London. Not that he was without friends there,
for he belonged to a fashionable club to which he could still adhere if it so pleased him,
and had all his old Oxford comrades to fall back upon if that were of any service to him. But
how is a man to walk into his club who yesterday was known as his father's eldest son and the
heir to a baronetcy and twelve thousand a year, and who to-day is known as nobody's son and
the heir to nothing? Men would feel so much for him and pity him so deeply! That was the worst
feature of his present position. He could hardly dare to show himself more than was absolutely
necessary till the newness of his tragedy was worn off.

Mr. Prendergast had taken lodgings for him, in which he was to remain till he could settle
himself in the same house with his mother. And this house, in which they were all to live,
had also been taken,--up in that cheerful locality near Harrow-on-the-Hill, called St. John's
Wood Road, the cab fares to which from any central part of London are so very ruinous. But
that house was not yet ready, and so he went into lodgings in Lincoln's Inn Fields. Mr. Prendergast
had chosen this locality because it was near the chambers of that great Chancery barrister,
Mr. Die, under whose beneficent wing Herbert Fitzgerald was destined to learn all the mysteries
of the Chancery bar. The sanctuary of Mr. Die's wig was in Stone Buildings, immediately close
to that milky way of vice-chancellors, whose separate courts cluster about the old chapel of
Lincoln's Inn; and here was Herbert to sit, studious, for the next three years,--to sit there
instead of at the various relief committees in the vicinity of Kanturk. And why could he not
be as happy at the one as at the other? Would not Mr. Die be as amusing as Mr. Townsend; and
the arguments of Vice-Chancellor Stuart's court quite as instructive as those heard in the
committee room at Gortnaclough?

On the morning of his arrival in London he drove to his lodgings, and found a note there from
Mr. Prendergast asking him to dinner on that day, and promising to take him to Mr. Die on the
following morning. Mr. Prendergast kept a bachelor's house in Bloomsbury Square, not very far
from Lincoln's Inn--just across Holborn, as all Londoners know; and there he would expect Herbert
at seven o'clock. "I will not ask any one to meet you," he said, "because you will be tired
after your journey, and perhaps more inclined to talk to me than to strangers."

Mr. Prendergast was one of those old-fashioned people who think that a spacious substantial
house in Bloomsbury Square, at a rent of a hundred and twenty pounds a year, is better worth
having than a narrow, lath-and-plaster, ill-built tenement at nearly double the price out westward
of the Parks. A quite new man is necessarily afraid of such a locality as Bloomsbury Square,
for he has no chance of getting any one into his house if he do not live westward. Who would
dine with Mr. Jones in Woburn Terrace, unless he had known Mr. Jones all his days, or unless
Jones were known as a top sawyer in some walk of life? But Mr. Prendergast was well enough
known to his old friends to be allowed to live where he pleased, and he was not very anxious
to add to their number by any new fashionable allurements.

Herbert sent over to Bloomsbury Square to say that he would be there at seven o'clock, and
then sat himself down in his new lodgings. It was but a dingy abode, consisting of a narrow
sitting-room looking out into the big square from over a covered archway, and a narrower bedroom
looking backwards into a dull, dirty-looking, crooked street. Nothing, he thought, could be
more melancholy than such a home. But then, what did it signify? His days would be passed in
Mr. Die's chambers, and his evenings would be spent over his law books with closed windows
and copious burnings of the midnight oil. For Herbert had wisely resolved that hard work, and
hard work alone, could mitigate the misery of the present position.

But he had no work for the present day. He could not at once unpack his portmanteau and begin
his law studies on the moment. It was about noon when he had completed the former preparation,
and eaten such breakfast as his new London landlady had gotten for him. And the breakfast had
not of itself been bad, for Mrs. Whereas had been a daughter of Themis all her life, waiting
upon scions of the law since first she had been able to run for a penn'orth of milk. She had
been laundress on a stairs for ten years, having married a law stationer's apprentice, and
now she owned the dingy house over the covered way, and let her own lodgings with her own furniture;
nor was she often without friends who would recommend her zeal and honesty, and make excuse
for the imperiousness of her ways and the too great fluency of her by no means servile tongue.

"Oh, Mrs.--," said Herbert, "I beg your pardon, but might I ask your name?"

"No offence, sir, none in life. My name's Whereas. Martha Whereas, and 'as been now for five-and-twenty
year. There be'ant many of the gen'lemen about the courts here as don't know some'at of me.
And I knew some'at of them too, before they carried their wigs so grandly. My husband, that's
Whereas,--you'll all'ays find him at the little stationer's shop outside the gate in Carey
Street. You'll know him some of these days, I'll go bail, if you're going to Mr. Die; anyways
you'll know his handwrite. Tea to your liking, sir? I all'ays gets cream for gentlemen, sir,
unless they tells me not. Milk a 'alfpenny, sir; cream tuppence; three 'alfpence difference;
hain't it, sir? So now you can do as you pleases, and if you like bacon and heggs to your breakfastesses
you've only to say the words. But then the heggs hain't heggs, that's the truth; and they hain't
chickens, but some'at betwixt the two."

And so she went on during the whole time that he was eating, moving about from place to place,
and putting back into the places which she had chosen for them anything which he had chanced
to move; now dusting a bit of furniture with her apron, and then leaning on the back of a chair
while she asked him some question as to his habits and future mode of living. She also wore
a bonnet, apparently as a customary part of her house costume, and Herbert could not help thinking
that she looked very like his Aunt Letty.

