I never heard in what manner and at what rate Mr. Fothergill received remuneration for the
various services performed by him with reference to the duke's property in Barsetshire; but
I am very sure that, whatever might be the amount, he earned it thoroughly. Never was there
a more faithful partisan, or one who, in his partisanship, was more discreet. In this matter
of the coming election he declared that he himself--personally, on his own hook--did intend
to bestir himself actively on behalf of Lord Dumbello. Mr. Sowerby was an old friend of his,
and a very good fellow. That was true. But all the world must admit that Sowerby was not in
the position which a county member ought to occupy. He was a ruined man, and it would not be
for his own advantage that he should be maintained in a position which was fit only for a man
of property. He knew--he, Fothergill--that Mr. Sowerby must abandon all right and claim to
Chaldicotes; and if so, what would be more absurd than to acknowledge that he had a right and
claim to the seat in Parliament? As to Lord Dumbello, it was probable that he would soon become
one of the largest landowners in the county; and, as such, who could be more fit for the representation?
Beyond this, Mr. Fothergill was not ashamed to confess--so he said--that he hoped to hold Lord
Dumbello's agency. It would be compatible with his other duties, and therefore, as a matter
of course, he intended to support Lord Dumbello; he himself, that is. As to the duke's mind
in the matter--! But I have already explained how Mr. Fothergill disposed of that.

In these days, Mr. Sowerby came down to his own house--for ostensibly it was still his own
house--but he came very quietly, and his arrival was hardly known in his own village. Though
his placard was stuck up so widely, he himself took no electioneering steps; none, at least,
as yet. The protection against arrest which he derived from Parliament would soon be over,
and those who were most bitter against the duke averred that steps would be taken to arrest
him, should he give sufficient opportunity to the myrmidons of the law. That he would, in such
case, be arrested was very likely; but it was not likely that this would be done in any way
at the duke's instance. Mr. Fothergill declared indignantly that this insinuation made him
very angry; but he was too prudent a man to be very angry at anything, and he knew how to make
capital on his own side of charges such as these which overshot their own mark. Mr. Sowerby
came down very quietly to Chaldicotes, and there he remained for a couple of days, quite alone.
The place bore a very different aspect now to that which we noticed when Mark Robarts drove
up to it, in the early pages of this little narrative. There were no lights in the windows
now, and no voices came from the stables; no dogs barked, and all was dead and silent as the
grave. During the greater portion of those two days he sat alone within the house, almost unoccupied.
He did not even open his letters, which lay piled on a crowded table in the small breakfast
parlour in which he sat; for the letters of such men come in piles, and there are few of them
which are pleasant in the reading. There he sat, troubled with thoughts which were sad enough,
now and then moving to and fro the house, but for the most part occupied in thinking over the
position to which he had brought himself. What would he be in the world's eye, if he ceased
to be the owner of Chaldicotes, and ceased also to be the member for his county? He had lived
ever before the world, and, though always harassed by encumbrances, had been sustained and
comforted by the excitement of a prominent position. His debts and difficulties had hitherto
been bearable, and he had borne them with ease so long that he had almost taught himself to
think that they would never be unendurable. But now--

The order for foreclosing had gone forth, and the harpies of the law, by their present speed
in sticking their claws into the carcass of his property, were atoning to themselves for the
delay with which they had hitherto been compelled to approach their prey. And the order as
to his seat had gone forth also. That placard had been drawn up by the combined efforts of
his sister, Miss Dunstable, and a certain well-known electioneering agent, named Closerstill,
presumed to be in the interest of the giants. But poor Sowerby had but little confidence in
the placard. No one knew better than he how great was the duke's power. He was hopeless, therefore,
as he walked about through those empty rooms, thinking of his past life and of that life which
was to come. Would it not be well for him that he were dead, now that he was dying to all that
had made the world pleasant? We see and hear of such men as Mr. Sowerby, and are apt to think
that they enjoy all that the world can give, and that they enjoy that all without payment either
in care or labour; but I doubt that, with even the most callous of them, their periods of wretchedness
must be frequent, and that wretchedness very intense. Salmon and lamb in February, and green
pease and new potatoes in March, can hardly make a man happy, even though nobody pays for them;
and the feeling that one is an antecedentem scelestum after whom a sure, though lame, Nemesis
is hobbling, must sometimes disturb one's slumbers. On the present occasion Scelestus felt
that his Nemesis had overtaken him. Lame as she had been, and swift as he had run, she had
mouthed him at last, and there was nothing left for him but to listen to the "whoop" set up
at the sight of his own death-throes.

It was a melancholy, dreary place now, that big house of Chaldicotes; and though the woods
were all green with their early leaves, and the garden thick with flowers, they also were melancholy
and dreary. The lawns were untrimmed and weeds were growing through the gravel, and here and
there a cracked Dryad, tumbled from her pedestal and sprawling in the grass, gave a look of
disorder to the whole place. The wooden trellis-work was shattered here and bending there,
the standard rose-trees were stooping to the ground, and the leaves of the winter still encumbered
the borders. Late in the evening of the second day Mr. Sowerby strolled out, and went through
the gardens into the wood. Of all the inanimate things of the world this wood of Chaldicotes
was the dearest to him. He was not a man to whom his companions gave much credit for feelings
or thoughts akin to poetry, but here, out in the Chace, his mind would be almost poetical.
While wandering among the forest trees, he became susceptible of the tenderness of human nature:
he would listen to the birds singing, and pick here and there a wild flower on his path. He
would watch the decay of the old trees and the progress of the young, and make pictures in
his eyes of every turn in the wood. He would mark the colour of a bit of road as it dipped
into a dell, and then, passing through a water-course, rose brown, rough, irregular, and beautiful
against the bank on the other side. And then he would sit and think of his old family: how
they had roamed there time out of mind in those Chaldicotes woods, father and son and grandson
in regular succession, each giving them over, without blemish or decrease, to his successor.
So he would sit; and so he did sit even now, and, thinking of these things, wished that he
had never been born.

It was dark night when he returned to the house, and as he did so he resolved that he would
quit the place altogether, and give up the battle as lost. The duke should take it and do as
he pleased with it; and as for the seat in Parliament, Lord Dumbello, or any other equally
gifted young patrician, might hold it for him. He would vanish from the scene and betake himself
to some land from whence he would be neither heard nor seen, and there--starve. Such were now
his future outlooks into the world; and yet, as regards health and all physical capacities,
he knew that he was still in the prime of his life. Yes; in the prime of his life! But what
could he do with what remained to him of such prime? How could he turn either his mind or his
strength to such account as might now be serviceable? How could he, in his sore need, earn
for himself even the barest bread? Would it not be better for him that he should die? Let not
any one covet the lot of a spendthrift, even though the days of his early pease and champagne
seem to be unnumbered; for that lame Nemesis will surely be up before the game has been all
played out. When Mr. Sowerby reached his house he found that a message by telegraph had arrived
for him in his absence. It was from his sister, and it informed him that she would be with
him that night. She was coming down by the mail train, had telegraphed to Barchester for post-horses,
and would be at Chaldicotes about two hours after midnight. It was therefore manifest enough
that her business was of importance. Exactly at two the Barchester post-chaise did arrive,
and Mrs. Harold Smith, before she retired to her bed, was closeted for about an hour with her
brother. "Well," she said, the following morning, as they sat together at the breakfast table,
"what do you say to it now? If you accept her offer you should be with her lawyer this afternoon."

"I suppose I must accept it," said he.

"Certainly, I think so. No doubt it will take the property out of your own hands as completely
as though the duke had it, but it will leave you the house, at any rate, for your life."

"What good will the house be, when I can't keep it up?"

"But I am not so sure of that. She will not want more than her fair interest; and as it will
be thoroughly well managed, I should think that there would be something over--something enough
to keep up the house. And then, you know, we must have some place in the country."

"I tell you fairly, Harriet, that I will have nothing further to do with Harold in the way
of money."

"Ah! that was because you would go to him. Why did you not come to me? And then, Nathaniel,
it is the only way in which you can have a chance of keeping the seat. She is the queerest
woman I ever met, but she seems resolved on beating the duke."

"I do not quite understand it, but I have not the slightest objection."

"She thinks that he is interfering with young Gresham about the Crown property. I had no idea
that she had so much business at her fingers' ends. When I first proposed the matter she took
it up quite as a lawyer might, and seemed to have forgotten altogether what occurred about
that other matter."

"I wish I could forget it also," said Mr. Sowerby.

"I really think that she does. When I was obliged to make some allusion to it--at least I felt
myself obliged, and was very sorry afterwards that I did--she merely laughed--a great loud
laugh as she always does, and then went on about the business. However, she was clear about
this, that all the expenses of the election should be added to the sum to be advanced by her,
and that the house should be left to you without any rent. If you choose to take the land round
the house you must pay for it, by the acre, as the tenants do. She was as clear about it all
as though she had passed her life in a lawyer's office."

My readers will now pretty well understand what last step that excellent sister, Mrs. Harold
Smith, had taken on her brother's behalf, nor will they be surprised to learn that in the course
of the day Mr. Sowerby hurried back to town and put himself into communication with Miss Dunstable's
lawyer.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

Is There Cause or Just Impediment?

I now purpose to visit another country house in Barsetshire, but on this occasion our sojourn
shall be in the eastern division, in which, as in every other county in England, electioneering
matters are paramount at the present moment. It has been mentioned that Mr. Gresham, junior,
young Frank Gresham as he was always called, lived at a place called Boxall Hill. This property
had come to his wife by will, and he was now settled there,--seeing that his father still held
the family seat of the Greshams at Greshamsbury. At the present moment Miss Dunstable was staying
at Boxall Hill with Mrs. Frank Gresham. They had left London, as, indeed, all the world had
done, to the terrible dismay of the London tradesmen. This dissolution of Parliament was ruining
everybody except the country publicans, and had of course destroyed the London season among
other things.

Mrs. Harold Smith had only just managed to catch Miss Dunstable before she left London; but
she did do so, and the great heiress had at once seen her lawyers, and instructed them how
to act with reference to the mortgages on the Chaldicotes property. Miss Dunstable was in the
habit of speaking of herself and her own pecuniary concerns as though she herself were rarely
allowed to meddle in their management; but this was one of those small jokes which she ordinarily
perpetrated; for in truth few ladies, and perhaps not many gentlemen, have a more thorough
knowledge of their own concerns or a more potent voice in their own affairs, than was possessed
by Miss Dunstable. Circumstances had lately brought her much into Barsetshire, and she had
there contracted very intimate friendships. She was now disposed to become, if possible, a
Barsetshire proprietor, and with this view had lately agreed with young Mr. Gresham that she
would become the purchaser of the Crown property. As, however, the purchase had been commenced
in his name, it was so to be continued; but now, as we are aware, it was rumoured that, after
all, the duke, or, if not the duke, then the Marquis of Dumbello, was to be the future owner
of the Chace. Miss Dunstable, however, was not a person to give up her object if she could
attain it, nor, under the circumstances, was she at all displeased at finding herself endowed
with the power of rescuing the Sowerby portion of the Chaldicotes property from the duke's
clutches. Why had the duke meddled with her or with her friend, as to the other property? Therefore
it was arranged that the full amount due to the duke on mortgage should be ready for immediate
payment; but it was arranged also that the security as held by Miss Dunstable should be very valid.

Miss Dunstable, at Boxall Hill or at Greshamsbury, was a very different person from Miss Dunstable
in London; and it was this difference which so much vexed Mrs. Gresham; not that her friend
omitted to bring with her into the country her London wit and aptitude for fun, but that she
did not take with her up to town the genuine goodness and love of honesty which made her lovable
in the country. She was, as it were, two persons, and Mrs. Gresham could not understand that
any lady should permit herself to be more worldly at one time of the year than at another--or
in one place than in any other. "Well, my dear, I am heartily glad we've done with that," Miss
Dunstable said to her, as she sat herself down to her desk in the drawing-room on the first
morning after her arrival at Boxall Hill.

"What does 'that' mean?" said Mrs. Gresham.

"Why, London and smoke and late hours, and standing on one's legs for four hours at a stretch
on the top of one's own staircase, to be bowed at by any one who chooses to come. That's all
done--for one year, at any rate."

"You know you like it."

"No, Mary; that's just what I don't know. I don't know whether I like it or not. Sometimes,
when the spirit of that dearest of all women, Mrs. Harold Smith, is upon me, I think that I
do like it; but then, again, when other spirits are on me, I think that I don't."

"And who are the owners of the other spirits?"

"Oh, you are one, of course. But you are a weak little thing, by no means able to contend with
such a Samson as Mrs. Harold. And then you are a little given to wickedness yourself, you know.
You've learned to like London well enough since you sat down to the table of Dives. Your uncle--he's
the real, impracticable, unapproachable Lazarus who declares that he can't come down because
of the big gulf. I wonder how he'd behave, if somebody left him ten thousand a year?"

"Uncommonly well, I am sure."

"Oh, yes; he is a Lazarus now, so of course we are bound to speak well of him; but I should
like to see him tried. I don't doubt but what he'd have a house in Belgrave Square, and become
noted for his little dinners before the first year of his trial was over."

"Well, and why not? You would not wish him to be an anchorite?"

"I am told that he is going to try his luck--not with ten thousand a year, but with one or two."

"What do you mean?"

"Jane tells me that they all say at Greshamsbury that he is going to marry Lady Scatcherd."
Now Lady Scatcherd was a widow living in those parts; an excellent woman, but one not formed
by nature to grace society of the highest order.

"What!" exclaimed Mrs. Gresham, rising up from her chair, while her eyes flashed with anger
at such a rumour.

"Well, my dear, don't eat me. I don't say it is so; I only say that Jane said so."

"Then you ought to send Jane out of the house."

"You may be sure of this, my dear: Jane would not have told me if somebody had not told her."

"And you believed it?"

"I have said nothing about that."

"But you look as if you had believed it."

"Do I? Let us see what sort of a look it is, this look of faith." And Miss Dunstable got up
and went to the glass over the fireplace. "But, Mary, my dear, ain't you old enough to know
that you should not credit people's looks? You should believe nothing nowadays; and I did not
believe the story about poor Lady Scatcherd. I know the doctor well enough to be sure that
he is not a marrying man."

"What a nasty, hackneyed, false phrase that is--that of a marrying man! It sounds as though
some men were in the habit of getting married three or four times a month."

"It means a great deal all the same. One can tell very soon whether a man is likely to marry
or no."

"And can one tell the same of a woman?"

"The thing is so different. All unmarried women are necessarily in the market; but if they
behave themselves properly they make no signs. Now there was Griselda Grantly; of course she
intended to get herself a husband, and a very grand one she has got: but she always looked
as though butter would not melt in her mouth. It would have been very wrong to call her a marrying
girl."

"Oh, of course she was," says Mrs. Gresham, with that sort of acrimony which one pretty young
woman so frequently expresses with reference to another. "But if one could always tell of a
woman, as you say you can of a man, I should be able to tell of you. Now, I wonder whether
you are a marrying woman? I have never been able to make up my mind yet."

Miss Dunstable remained silent for a few moments, as though she were at first minded to take
the question as being, in some sort, one made in earnest; but then she attempted to laugh it
off. "Well, I wonder at that," said she, "as it was only the other day I told you how many
offers I had refused."

"Yes; but you did not tell me whether any had been made that you meant to accept."

"None such was ever made to me. Talking of that, I shall never forget your cousin, the Honourable
George."

"He is not my cousin."

"Well, your husband's. It would not be fair to show a man's letters; but I should like to show
you his."

"You are determined, then, to remain single?"

"I didn't say that. But why do you cross-question me so?"

"Because I think so much about you. I am afraid that you will become so afraid of men's motives
as to doubt that any one can be honest. And yet sometimes I think you would be a happier woman
and a better woman, if you were married."

"To such an one as the Honourable George, for instance?"

"No, not to such an one as him; you have probably picked out the worst."

"Or to Mr. Sowerby?"

"Well, no; not to Mr. Sowerby, either. I would not have you marry any man that looked to you
for your money principally."

"And how is it possible that I should expect any one to look to me principally for anything
else? You don't see my difficulty, my dear? If I had only five hundred a year, I might come
across some decent middle-aged personage, like myself, who would like me, myself, pretty well,
and would like my little income--pretty well also. He would not tell me any violent lie, and
perhaps no lie at all. I should take to him in the same sort of way, and we might do very well.
But, as it is, how is it possible that any disinterested person should learn to like me? How
could such a man set about it? If a sheep have two heads, is not the fact of the two heads
the first and, indeed, only thing which the world regards in that sheep? Must it not be so
as a matter of course? I am a sheep with two heads. All this money which my father put together,
and which has been growing since like grass under May showers, has turned me into an abortion.
I am not the giantess eight feet high, or the dwarf that stands in the man's hand--"

"Or the two-headed sheep--"

"But I am the unmarried woman with--half a dozen millions of money--as I believe some people
think. Under such circumstances have I a fair chance of getting my own sweet bit of grass to
nibble, like any ordinary animal with one head? I never was very beautiful, and I am not more
so now than I was fifteen years ago."

"I am quite sure it is not that which hinders it. You would not call yourself plain; and even
plain women are married every day, and are loved too, as well as pretty women."

"Are they? Well, we won't say more about that; but I don't expect a great many lovers on account
of my beauty. If ever you hear of such an one, mind you tell me." It was almost on Mrs. Gresham's
tongue to say that she did know of one such--meaning her uncle. But in truth, she did not know
any such thing; nor could she boast to herself that she had good grounds for feeling that it
was so--certainly none sufficient to justify her in speaking of it. Her uncle had said no word
to her on the matter, and had been confused and embarrassed when the idea of such a marriage
was hinted to him. But, nevertheless, Mrs. Gresham did think that each of these two was well
inclined to love the other, and that they would be happier together than they would be single.
The difficulty, however, was very great, for the doctor would be terribly afraid of being thought
covetous in regard to Miss Dunstable's money; and it would hardly be expected that she should
be induced to make the first overture to the doctor.

"My uncle would be the only man that I can think of that would be at all fit for you," said
Mrs. Gresham, boldly.

"What, and rob poor Lady Scatcherd!" said Miss Dunstable.

"Oh, very well. If you choose to make a joke of his name in that way I have done."

"Why, God bless the girl, what does she want me to say? And as for joking, surely that is innocent
enough. You're as tender about the doctor as though he were a girl of seventeen."

"It's not about him; but it's such a shame to laugh at poor dear Lady Scatcherd. If she were
to hear it she'd lose all comfort in having my uncle near her."

"And I'm to marry him, so that she may be safe with her friend!"

"Very well; I have done." And Mrs. Gresham, who had already got up from her seat, employed
herself very sedulously in arranging flowers which had been brought in for the drawing-room
tables. Thus they remained silent for a minute or two, during which she began to reflect that,
after all, it might probably be thought that she also was endeavouring to catch the great heiress
for her uncle.

"And now you are angry with me," said Miss Dunstable.

"No, I am not."

"Oh, but you are. Do you think I'm such a fool as not to see when a person's vexed? You wouldn't
have twitched that geranium's head off if you'd been in a proper frame of mind."

"I don't like that joke about Lady Scatcherd."

"And is that all, Mary? Now do try and be true, it you can. You remember the bishop? Magna
est veritas."

"The fact is you've got into such a way of being sharp, and saying sharp things among your
friends up in London, that you can hardly answer a person without it."

"Can't I! Dear, dear, what a Mentor you are, Mary! No poor lad that ever ran up from Oxford
for a spree in town got so lectured for his dissipation and iniquities as I do. Well, I beg
Dr. Thorne's pardon, and Lady Scatcherd's, and I won't be sharp any more; and I will--let me
see, what was it I was to do? Marry him myself, I believe; was not that it?"

"No; you're not half good enough for him."

"I know that. I'm quite sure of that. Though I am so sharp, I'm very humble. You can't accuse
me of putting any very great value on myself."

"Perhaps not as much as you ought to do--on yourself."

"Now what do you mean, Mary? I won't be bullied and teased, and have innuendoes thrown out
at me, because you've got something on your mind, and don't quite dare to speak it out. If
you have got anything to say, say it." But Mrs. Gresham did not choose to say it at that moment.
She held her peace, and went on arranging her flowers--now with a more satisfied air, and without
destruction to the geraniums. And when she had grouped her bunches properly she carried the
jar from one part of the room to another, backwards and forwards, trying the effect of the
colours, as though her mind was quite intent upon her flowers, and was for the moment wholly
unoccupied with any other subject. But Miss Dunstable was not the woman to put up with this.
She sat silent in her place, while her friend made one or two turns about the room; and then
she got up from her seat also.

"Mary," she said, "give over about those wretched bits of green branches, and leave the jars
where they are. You're trying to fidget me into a passion."

"Am I?" said Mrs. Gresham, standing opposite to a big bowl, and putting her head a little on
one side, as though she could better look at her handiwork in that position.

"You know you are; and it's all because you lack courage to speak out. You didn't begin at
me in this way for nothing."

"I do lack courage. That's just it," said Mrs. Gresham, still giving a twist here and a set
there to some of the small sprigs which constituted the background of her bouquet. "I do lack
courage--to have ill motives imputed to me. I was thinking of saying something, and I am afraid,
and therefore I will not say it. And now, if you like, I will be ready to take you out in ten
minutes." But Miss Dunstable was not going to be put off in this way. And to tell the truth,
I must admit that her friend Mrs. Gresham was not using her altogether well. She should either
have held her peace on the matter altogether--which would probably have been her wiser course--or
she should have declared her own ideas boldly, feeling secure in her own conscience as to her
own motives. "I shall not stir from this room," said Miss Dunstable, "till I have had this
matter out with you. And as for imputations--my imputing bad motives to you--I don't know how
far you may be joking, and saying what you call sharp things to me; but you have no right to
think that I should think evil of you. If you really do think so, it is treason to the love
I have for you. If I thought that you thought so, I could not remain in the house with you.
What, you are not able to know the difference which one makes between one's real friends and
one's mock friends! I don't believe it of you, and I know you are only striving to bully me."
And Miss Dunstable now took her turn of walking up and down the room.

"Well, she shan't be bullied," said Mis. Gresham, leaving her flowers, and putting her arm
round her friend's waist;--"at least, not here, in this house, although she is sometimes such
a bully herself."

"Mary, you have gone too far about this to go back. Tell me what it was that was on your mind,
and as far as it concerns me, I will answer you honestly." Mrs. Gresham now began to repent
that she had made her little attempt. That uttering of hints in a half-joking way was all very
well, and might possibly bring about the desired results, without the necessity of any formal
suggestion on her part; but now she was so brought to book that she must say something formal.
She must commit herself to the expression of her own wishes, and to an expression also of an
opinion as to what had been the wishes of her friend; and this she must do without being able
to say anything as to the wishes of that third person. "Well," she said, "I suppose you know
what I meant."

"I suppose I did," said Miss Dunstable; "but it is not at all the less necessary that you should
say it out. I am not to commit myself by my interpretation of your thoughts, while you remain
perfectly secure in having only hinted your own. I hate hints, as I do--the mischief. I go
in for the bishop's doctrine. Magna est veritas."

"Well, I don't know," said Mrs. Gresham.

"Ah! but I do," said Miss Dunstable. "And therefore go on, or for ever hold your peace."

"That's just it," said Mrs. Gresham.

"What's just it?" said Miss Dunstable.

"The quotation out of the Prayer Book which you finished just now. 'If any of you know cause
or just impediment why these two persons should not be joined together in holy matrimony, ye
are to declare it. This is the first time of asking.' Do you know any cause, Miss Dunstable?"

"Do you know any, Mrs. Gresham?"

"None, on my honour!" said the younger lady, putting her hand upon her breast.

"Ah! but do you not?" and Miss Dunstable caught hold of her arm, and spoke almost abruptly
in her energy.

"No, certainly not. What impediment? If I did, I should not have broached the subject. I declare
I think you would both be very happy together. Of course, there is one impediment; we all know
that. That must be your look out."

"What do you mean? What impediment?"

"Your own money."

"Psha! Did you find that an impediment in marrying Frank Gresham?"

"Ah! the matter was so different there. He had much more to give than I had, when all was counted.
And I had no money when we--when we were first engaged." And the tears came into her eyes as
she thought of the circumstances of her early love;--all of which have been narrated in the
county chronicles of Barsetshire, and may now be read by men and women interested therein.

"Yes; yours was a love match. I declare, Mary, I often think that you are the happiest woman
of whom I ever heard; to have it all to give, when you were so sure that you were loved while
you yet had nothing."

"Yes; I was sure," and she wiped the sweet tears from her eyes, as she remembered a certain
day when a certain youth had come to her, claiming all kinds of privileges in a very determined
manner. She had been no heiress then. "Yes; I was sure. But now with you, dear, you can't make
yourself poor again. If you can trust no one--"

"I can. I can trust him. As regards that I do trust him altogether. But how can I tell that
he would care for me?"

"Do you not know that he likes you?"

"Ah, yes; and so he does Lady Scatcherd."

"Miss Dunstable!"

"And why not Lady Scatcherd, as well as me? We are of the same kind--come from the same class."

"Not quite that, I think."

"Yes, from the same class; only I have managed to poke myself up among dukes and duchesses,
whereas she has been content to remain where God placed her. Where I beat her in art, she beats
me in nature."

"You know you are talking nonsense."

"I think that we are both doing that--absolute nonsense; such as schoolgirls of eighteen talk
to each other. But there is a relief in it; is there not? It would be a terrible curse to have
to talk sense always. Well, that's done; and now let us go out." Mrs. Gresham was sure after
this that Miss Dunstable would be a consenting party to the little arrangement which she contemplated.
But of that she had felt but little doubt for some considerable time past. The difficulty lay
on the other side, and all that she had as yet done was to convince herself that she would
be safe in assuring her uncle of success if he could be induced to take the enterprise in hand.
He was to come to Boxall Hill that evening, and to remain there for a day or two. If anything
could be done in the matter, now would be the time for doing it. So at least thought Mrs. Gresham.

The doctor did come, and did remain for the allotted time at Boxall Hill; but when he left,
Mrs. Gresham had not been successful. Indeed, he did not seem to enjoy his visit as was usual
with him; and there was very little of that pleasant friendly intercourse which for some time
past had been customary between him and Miss Dunstable. There were no passages of arms between
them; no abuse from the doctor against the lady's London gaiety; no raillery from the lady
as to the doctor's country habits. They were very courteous to each other, and, as Mrs. Gresham
thought, too civil by half; nor, as far as she could see, did they ever remain alone in each
other's company for five minutes at a time during the whole period of the doctor's visit. What,
thought Mrs. Gresham to herself,--what if she had set these two friends at variance with each
other, instead of binding them together in the closest and most durable friendship! But still
she had an idea that, as she had begun to play this game, she must play it out. She felt conscious
that what she had done must do evil, unless she could so carry it on as to make it result in
good. Indeed, unless she could so manage, she would have done a manifest injury to Miss Dunstable
in forcing her to declare her thoughts and feelings. She had already spoken to her uncle in
London, and though he had said nothing to show that he approved of her plan, neither had he
said anything to show that he disapproved it. Therefore she had hoped through the whole of
those three days that he would make some sign,--at any rate to her; that he would in some way
declare what were his own thoughts on this matter. But the morning of his departure came, and
he had declared nothing. "Uncle," she said, in the last five minutes of his sojourn there,
after he had already taken leave of Miss Dunstable and shaken hands with Mrs. Gresham, "have
you ever thought of what I said to you up in London?"

"Yes, Mary; of course I have thought about it. Such an idea as that, when put into a man's
head, will make itself thought about."

"Well; and what next? Do talk to me about it. Do not be so hard and unlike yourself."

"I have very little to say about it."

"I can tell you this for certain, you may if you like."

"Mary! Mary!"

"I would not say so if I were not sure that I should not lead you into trouble."

"You are foolish in wishing this, my dear; foolish in trying to tempt an old man into a folly."

"Not foolish if I know that it will make you both happier." He made her no further reply, but
stooping down that she might kiss him, as was his wont, went his way, leaving her almost miserable
in the thought that she had troubled all these waters to no purpose. What would Miss Dunstable
think of her? But on that afternoon Miss Dunstable seemed to be as happy and even-tempered as ever.

CHAPTER XXXIX

How to Write a Love Letter

Dr. Thorne, in the few words which he spoke to his niece before he left Boxall Hill, had called
himself an old man; but he was as yet on the right side of sixty by five good years, and bore
about with him less of the marks of age than most men of fifty-five do bear. One would have
said, in looking at him, that there was no reason why he should not marry if he found that
such a step seemed good to him; and, looking at the age of the proposed bride, there was nothing
unsuitable in that respect. But nevertheless he felt almost ashamed of himself, in that he
allowed himself even to think of the proposition which his niece had made. He mounted his horse
that day at Boxall Hill--for he made all his journeys about the county on horseback--and rode
slowly home to Greshamsbury, thinking not so much of the suggested marriage as of his own folly
in thinking of it. How could he be such an ass at his time of life as to allow the even course
of his way to be disturbed by any such idea? Of course he could not propose to himself such
a wife as Miss Dunstable without having some thoughts as to her wealth; and it had been the
pride of his life so to live that the world might know that he was indifferent about money.
His profession was all in all to him; the air which he breathed as well as the bread which
he ate; and how could he follow his profession if he made such a marriage as this? She would
expect him to go to London with her; and what would he become, dangling at her heels there,
known only to the world as the husband of the richest woman in the town? The kind of life was
one which would be unsuitable to him; and yet, as he rode home, he could not resolve to rid
himself of the idea. He went on thinking of it, though he still continued to condemn himself
for keeping it in his thoughts. That night at home he would make up his mind, so he declared
to himself; and would then write to his niece begging her to drop the subject. Having so far
come to a resolution he went on meditating what course of life it might be well for him to
pursue if he and Miss Dunstable should after all become man and wife.

There were two ladies whom it behoved him to see on the day of his arrival--whom, indeed, he
generally saw every day except when absent from Greshamsbury. The first of these--first in
the general consideration of the people of the place--was the wife of the squire, Lady Arabella
Gresham, a very old patient of the doctor's. Her it was his custom to visit early in the afternoon;
and then, if he were able to escape the squire's daily invitation to dinner, he customarily
went to the other, Lady Scatcherd, when the rapid meal in his own house was over. Such, at
least, was his summer practice. "Well, doctor, how are they at Boxall Hill?" said the squire,
way-laying him on the gravel sweep before the door. The squire was very hard set for occupation
in these summer months.

"Quite well, I believe."

"I don't know what's come to Frank. I think he hates this place now. He's full of the election,
I suppose."

"Oh, yes; he told me to say he should be over here soon. Of course there'll be no contest,
so he need not trouble himself."

"Happy dog, isn't he, doctor? to have it all before him instead of behind him. Well, well;
he's as good a lad as ever lived--as ever lived. And let me see; Mary's time--" And then there
were a few very important words spoken on that subject.

"I'll just step up to Lady Arabella now," said the doctor.

"She's as fretful as possible," said the squire. "I've just left her."

"Nothing special the matter, I hope?"

"No, I think not; nothing in your way, that is; only specially cross, which always comes in
my way. You'll stop and dine to-day, of course?"

"Not to-day, squire."

"Nonsense; you will. I have been quite counting on you. I have a particular reason for wanting
to have you to-day--a most particular reason." But the squire always had his particular reasons.

"I'm very sorry, but it is impossible to-day. I shall have a letter to write that I must sit
down to seriously. Shall I see you when I come down from her ladyship?" The squire turned away
sulkily, almost without answering him, for he now had no prospect of any alleviation to the
tedium of the evening; and the doctor went upstairs to his patient. For Lady Arabella, though
it cannot be said that she was ill, was always a patient. It must not be supposed that she
kept her bed and swallowed daily doses, or was prevented from taking her share in such prosy
gaieties as came from time to time in the way of her prosy life; but it suited her turn of
mind to be an invalid and to have a doctor; and as the doctor whom her good fates had placed
at her elbow thoroughly understood her case, no great harm was done.

"It frets me dreadfully that I cannot get to see Mary," Lady Arabella said, as soon as the
first ordinary question as to her ailments had been asked and answered.

"She's quite well, and will be over to see you before long."

"Now I beg that she won't. She never thinks of coming when there can be no possible objection,
and travelling, at the present moment, would be--" Whereupon the Lady Arabella shook her head
very gravely. "Only think of the importance of it, doctor," she said. "Remember the enormous
stake there is to be considered."

"It would not do her a ha'porth of harm if the stake were twice as large."

"Nonsense, doctor, don't tell me; as if I didn't know myself. I was very much against her going
to London this spring, but of course what I said was overruled. It always is. I do believe
Mr. Gresham went over to Boxall Hill, on purpose to induce her to go. But what does he care?
He's fond of Frank; but he never thinks of looking beyond the present day. He never did, as
you know well enough, doctor."

"The trip did her all the good in the world," said Dr. Thorne, preferring anything to a conversation
respecting the squire's sins.

"I very well remember that when I was in that way it wasn't thought that such trips would do
me any good. But, perhaps, things are altered since then."

"Yes, they are," said the doctor. "We don't interfere so much nowadays."

"I know I never asked for such amusements when so much depended on quietness. I remember before
Frank was born--and, indeed, when all of them were born-- But, as you say, things were different
then; and I can easily believe that Mary is a person quite determined to have her own way."

"Why, Lady Arabella, she would have stayed at home without wishing to stir if Frank had done
so much as hold up his little finger."

"So did I always. If Mr. Gresham made the slightest hint I gave way. But I really don't see
what one gets in return for such implicit obedience. Now this year, doctor, of course I should
have liked to have been up in London for a week or two. You seemed to think yourself that I
might as well see Sir Omicron."

"There could be no possible objection, I said."

"Well; no; exactly; and as Mr. Gresham knew I wished it, I think he might as well have offered
it. I suppose there can be no reason now about money."

"But I understood that Mary specially asked you and Augusta?"

"Yes; Mary was very good. She did ask me. But I know very well that Mary wants all the room
she has got in London. The house is not at all too large for herself, And, for the matter of
that, my sister, the countess, was very anxious that I should be with her. But one does like
to be independent if one can, and for one fortnight I do think that Mr. Gresham might have
managed it. When I knew that he was so dreadfully out at elbows I never troubled him about
it,--though, goodness knows, all that was never my fault."

"The squire hates London. A fortnight there in warm weather would nearly be the death of him."

"He might at any rate have paid me the compliment of asking me. The chances are ten to one
I should not have gone. It is that indifference that cuts me so. He was here just now, and
would you believe it?--"

But the doctor was determined to avoid further complaint for the present day. "I wonder what
you would feel, Lady Arabella, if the squire were to take it into his head to go away and amuse
himself, leaving you at home. There are worse men than Mr. Gresham, if you will believe me."
All this was an allusion to Earl de Courcy, her ladyship's brother, as Lady Arabella very well
understood; and the argument was one which was very often used to silence her.

"Upon my word, then, I should like it better than his hanging about here doing nothing but
attend to those nasty dogs. I really sometimes think that he has no spirit left."

"You are mistaken there, Lady Arabella," said the doctor, rising with his hat in his hand,
and making his escape without further parley. As he went home he could not but think that that
phase of married life was not a very pleasant one. Mr. Gresham and his wife were supposed by
the world to live on the best of terms. They always inhabited the same house, went out together
when they did go out, always sat in their respective corners in the family pew, and in their
wildest dreams after the happiness of novelty never thought of Sir Cresswell Cresswell. In
some respects--with regard, for instance, to the continued duration of their joint domesticity
at the family mansion of Greshamsbury--they might have been taken for a pattern couple. But
yet, as far as the doctor could see, they did not seem to add much to the happiness of each
other. They loved each other, doubtless, and had either of them been in real danger, that danger
would have made the other miserable; but yet it might well be a question whether either would
not be more comfortable without the other.

The doctor, as was his custom, dined at five, and at seven he went up to the cottage of his
old friend Lady Scatcherd. Lady Scatcherd was not a refined woman, having in her early days
been a labourer's daughter, and having then married a labourer. But her husband had risen in
the world--as has been told in those chronicles before mentioned,--and his widow was now Lady
Scatcherd with a pretty cottage and a good jointure. She was in all things the very opposite
to Lady Arabella Gresham; nevertheless, under the doctor's auspices, the two ladies were in
some measure acquainted with each other. Of her married life, also, Dr. Thorne had seen something,
and it may be questioned whether the memory of that was more alluring than the reality now
existing at Greshamsbury. Of the two women Dr. Thorne much preferred his humbler friend, and
to her he made his visits not in the guise of a doctor, but as a neighbour. "Well, my lady,"
he said, as he sat down by her on a broad garden seat--all the world called Lady Scatcherd
"my lady,"--"and how do these long summer days agree with you? Your roses are twice better
out than any I see up at the big house."

"You may well call them long, doctor. They're long enough surely."

"But not too long. Come, now, I won't have you complaining. You don't mean to tell me that
you have anything to make you wretched? You had better not, for I won't believe you."

"Eh; well; wretched! I don't know as I'm wretched. It'd be wicked to say that, and I with such
comforts about me."

"I think it would, almost." The doctor did not say this harshly, but in a soft, friendly tone,
and pressing her hand gently as he spoke.

"And I didn't mean to be wicked. I'm very thankful for everything--leastways, I always try
to be. But, doctor, it is so lonely like."

"Lonely! not more lonely than I am."

"Oh, yes; you're different. You can go everywheres. But what can a lone woman do? I'll tell
you what, doctor; I'd give it all up to have Roger back with his apron on and his pick in his
hand. How well I mind his look when he'd come home o' nights!"

"And yet it was a hard life you had then, eh, old woman? It would be better for you to be thankful
for what you've got."

"I am thankful. Didn't I tell you so before?" said she, somewhat crossly. "But it's a sad life,
this living alone. I declares I envy Hannah, 'cause she's got Jemima to sit in the kitchen
with her. I want her to sit with me sometimes, but she won't."

"Ah! but you shouldn't ask her. It's letting yourself down."

"What do I care about down or up? It makes no difference, as he's gone. If he had lived one
might have cared about being up, as you call it. Eh, deary; I'll be going after him before
long, and it will be no matter then."

"We shall all be going after him, sooner or later; that's sure enough."

"Eh, dear, that's true surely. It's only a span long, as Parson Oriel tells us, when he gets
romantic in his sermons. But it's a hard thing, doctor, when two is married, as they can't
have their span, as he calls it, out together. Well I must only put up with it, I suppose,
as others does. Now, you're not going, doctor? You'll stop and have a dish of tea with me.
You never see such cream as Hannah has from the Alderney cow. Do'ey now, doctor." But the doctor
had his letter to write, and would not allow himself to be tempted even by the promise of Hannah's
cream. So he went his way, angering Lady Scatcherd by his departure as he had before angered
the squire, and thinking as he went which was most unreasonable in her wretchedness, his friend
Lady Arabella or his friend Lady Scatcherd. The former was always complaining of an existing
husband who never refused her any moderate request; and the other passed her days in murmuring
at the loss of a dead husband, who in his life had ever been to her imperious and harsh, and
had sometimes been cruel and unjust.

The doctor had his letter to write, but even yet he had not quite made up his mind what he
would put into it; indeed, he had not hitherto resolved to whom it should be written. Looking
at the matter as he had endeavoured to look at it, his niece, Mrs. Gresham, would be his correspondent;
but if he brought himself to take this jump in the dark, in that case he would address himself
direct to Miss Dunstable. He walked home, not by the straightest road, but taking a considerable
curve, round by narrow lanes, and through thick flower-laden hedges,--very thoughtful. He was
told that she wished to marry him; and was he to think only of himself? And as to that pride
of his about money, was it in truth a hearty, manly feeling; or was it a false pride, of which
it behoved him to be ashamed as it did of many cognate feelings? If he acted rightly in this
matter, why should he be afraid of the thoughts of any one? A life of solitude was bitter enough,
as poor Lady Scatcherd had complained. But then, looking at Lady Scatcherd, and looking also
at his other near neighbour, his friend the squire, there was little thereabouts to lead him
on to matrimony. So he walked home slowly through the lanes, very meditative, with his hands
behind his back. Nor when he got home was he much more inclined to any resolute line of action.
He might have drunk his tea with Lady Scatcherd, as well as have sat there in his own drawing-room,
drinking it alone; for he got no pen and paper, and he dawdled over his teacup with the utmost
dilatoriness, putting off, as it were, the evil day. In almost every case, the flat E note is not
held for any longer duration than a forte made with a careless stroke
of the bow would endure upon the strings.

Consider if Beethoven's voice was heard from the grave telling a conductor. "Hold my fermata,
firmly, terribly! I did not produce the fermatas as a joke or because I did not know how I
wanted to proceed; I indulge in the fullest, the most kept tone to express myself Adagio, and
I utilize the firm and complete tone when I desire to have it in an Allegro full of passion
as an intense spasm. The the tone should have its blood released to the very last drop. I hold
down the seas waves, and the depths shall be seen; or, I stem the clouds, dissolve the mist and show
a pure blue spirit, and the amazing core of the sun. How on earth was
he to find words to say that which he now wished to have said? He had never written such a
letter in his life, or anything approaching to it, and now found himself overwhelmed with a
difficulty of which he had not previously thought. He spent another half-hour in looking at
the paper, and was at last nearly deterred by this new difficulty. He would use the simplest,
plainest language, he said to himself over and over again; but it is not always easy to use
simple, plain language,--by no means so easy as to mount on stilts, and to march along with
sesquipodalian words, with pathos, spasms, and notes of interjection. But the letter did at
last get itself written, and there was not a note of interjection in it.

   MY DEAR MISS DUNSTABLE,

   I think it right to confess that I should not now be
   writing this letter to you, had I not been led to believe
   by other judgement than my own that the proposition which
   I am going to make would be regarded by you with favour.
   Without such other judgement I should, I own, have feared
   that the great disparity between you and me in regard to
   money would have given to such a proposition an appearance
   of being false and mercenary. All I ask of you now, with
   confidence, is to acquit me of such fault as that.

   When you have read so far you will understand what I mean.
   We have known each other now somewhat intimately, though
   indeed not very long, and I have sometimes fancied that
   you were almost as well pleased to be with me as I have
   been to be with you. If I have been wrong in this, tell me
   so simply, and I will endeavour to let our friendship run
   on as though this letter had not been written. But if I
   have been right, and if it be possible that you can think
   that a union between us will make us both happier than we
   are single, I will plight you a word and troth with good
   faith, and will do what an old man may do to make the
   burden of the world lie light on your shoulders. Looking
   at my age I can hardly keep myself from thinking that I
   am an old fool: but I try to reconcile myself to that by
   remembering that you yourself are no longer a girl. You
   see that I pay you no compliments, and that you need
   expect none from me.

   I do not know that I could add anything to the truth of
   this, if I were to write three times as much. All that is
   necessary is, that you should know what I mean. If you do
   not believe me to be true and honest already, nothing that
   I can write will make you believe it.

   God bless you. I know you will not keep me long in
   suspense for an answer.

   Affectionately your friend,

   THOMAS THORNE.

When he had finished he meditated again for another half-hour whether it would not be right
that he should add something about her money. Would it not be well for him to tell her--it
might be said in a postscript--that with regard to all her wealth she would be free to do what
she chose? At any rate he owed no debts for her to pay, and would still have his own income,
sufficient for his own purposes. But about one o'clock he came to the conclusion that it would
be better to leave the matter alone. If she cared for him, and could trust him, and was worthy
also that he should trust her, no omission of such a statement would deter her from coming
to him: and if there were no such trust, it would not be created by any such assurance on his
part. So he read the letter over twice, sealed it, and took it up, together with his bed candle,
into his bedroom. Now that the letter was written it seemed to be a thing fixed by fate that
it must go. He had written it that he might see how it looked when written; but now that it
was written, there remained no doubt that it must be sent. So he went to bed, with the letter
on the toilette-table beside him; and early in the morning--so early as to make it seem that
the importance of the letter had disturbed his rest--he sent it off by a special messenger
to Boxall Hill. "I'se wait for an answer?" said the boy.

"No," said the doctor: "leave the letter, and come away."

The breakfast hour was not very early at Boxall Hill in these summer months. Frank Gresham,
no doubt, went round his farm before he came in for prayers, and his wife was probably looking
to the butter in the dairy. At any rate, they did not meet till near ten, and therefore, though
the ride from Greshamsbury to Boxall Hill was nearly two hours' work, Miss Dunstable had her
letter in her own room before she came down. She read it in silence as she was dressing, while
the maid was with her in the room; but she made no sign which could induce her Abigail to think
that the epistle was more than ordinarily important. She read it, and then quietly refolding
it and placing it in the envelope, she put it down on the table at which she was sitting. It
was full fifteen minutes afterwards that she begged her servant to see if Mrs. Gresham were
still in her own room. "Because I want to see her for five minutes, alone, before breakfast,"
said Miss Dunstable.

"You traitor; you false, black traitor!" were the first words which Miss Dunstable spoke when
she found herself alone with her friend.

"Why, what's the matter?"

"I did not think there was so much mischief in you, nor so keen and commonplace a desire for
match-making. Look here. Read the first four lines; not more, if you please; the rest is private.
Whose is the other judgement of whom your uncle speaks in his letter?"

"Oh, Miss Dunstable! I must read it all."

"Indeed you'll do no such thing. You think it's a love-letter, I dare say; but indeed there's
not a word about love in it."

"I know he has offered. I shall be so glad, for I know you like him."

"He tells me that I am an old woman, and insinuates that I may probably be an old fool."

"I am sure he does not say that."

"Ah! but I'm sure that he does. The former is true enough, and I never complain of the truth.
But as to the latter, I am by no means so certain that it is true--not in the sense that he
means it."

"Dear, dearest woman, don't go on in that way now. Do speak out to me, and speak without jesting."

"Whose was the other judgement to whom he trusts so implicitly? Tell me that."

"Mine, mine, of course. No one else can have spoken to him about it. Of course I talked to him."

"And what did you tell him?"

"I told him--"

"Well, out with it. Let me have the real facts. Mind, I tell you fairly that you had no right
to tell him anything. What passed between us, passed in confidence. But let us hear what you
did say."

"I told him that you would have him if he offered." And Mrs. Gresham, as she spoke, looked
into her friend's face doubtingly, not knowing whether in very truth Miss Dunstable were pleased
with her or displeased. If she were displeased, then how had her uncle been deceived!

"You told him that as a fact?"

"I told him that I thought so."

"Then I suppose I am bound to have him," said Miss Dunstable, dropping the letter on to the
floor in mock despair.

"My dear, dear, dearest woman!" said Mrs. Gresham, bursting into tears, and throwing herself
on to her friend's neck.

"Mind you are a dutiful niece," said Miss Dunstable. "And now let me go and finish dressing."
In the course of the afternoon, an answer was sent back to Greshamsbury, in these words:--

   DEAR DR. THORNE,

   I do and will trust you in everything; and it shall be as
   you would have it. Mary writes to you; but do not believe
   a word she says. I never will again, for she has behaved
   so bad in this matter.

   Yours affectionately and very truly,

   MARTHA DUNSTABLE.

"And so I am going to marry the richest woman in England," said Dr. Thorne to himself, as he
sat down that day to his mutton-chop.

CHAPTER XL

Internecine

It must be conceived that there was some feeling of triumph at Plumstead Episcopi, when the
wife of the rector returned home with her daughter, the bride elect of the Lord Dumbello. The
heir of the Marquess of Hartletop was, in wealth, the most considerable unmarried young nobleman
of the day; he was noted, too, as a man difficult to be pleased, as one who was very fine and
who gave himself airs; and to have been selected as the wife of such a man as this was a great
thing for the daughter of a parish clergyman. We have seen in what manner the happy girl's
mother communicated the fact to Lady Lufton, hiding, as it were, her pride under a veil; and
we have seen also how meekly the happy girl bore her own great fortune, applying herself humbly
to the packing of her clothes, as though she ignored her own glory. But nevertheless there
was triumph at Plumstead Episcopi. The mother, when she returned home, began to feel that she
had been thoroughly successful in the great object of her life. While she was yet in London
she had hardly realized her satisfaction, and there were doubts then whether the cup might
not be dashed from her lips before it was tasted. It might be that even the son of the Marquess
of Hartletop was subject to parental authority, and that barriers should spring up between
Griselda and her coronet; but there had been nothing of the kind. The archdeacon had been closeted
with the marquess, and Mrs. Grantly had been closeted with the marchioness; and though neither
of those noble persons had expressed themselves gratified by their son's proposed marriage,
so also neither of them had made any attempt to prevent it. Lord Dumbello was a man who had
a will of his own--as the Grantlys boasted amongst themselves. Poor Griselda! the day may perhaps
come when this fact of her lord's masterful will may not to her be matter of much boasting.
But in London, as I was saying, there had been no time for an appreciation of the family joy.
The work to be done was nervous in its nature, and self-glorification might have been fatal;
but now, when they were safe at Plumstead, the great truth, burst upon them in all its splendour.

Mrs. Grantly had but one daughter, and the formation of that child's character and her establishment
in the world had been the one main object of the mother's life. Of Griselda's great beauty
the Plumstead household had long been conscious; of her discretion also, of her conduct, and
of her demeanour there had been no doubt. But the father had sometimes hinted to the mother
that he did not think that Grizzy was quite so clever as her brothers. "I don't agree with
you at all," Mrs. Grantly had answered. "Besides, what you call cleverness is not at all necessary
in a girl; she is perfectly lady-like; even you won't deny that." The archdeacon had never
wished to deny it, and was now fain to admit that what he had called cleverness was not necessary
in a young lady. At this period of the family glory the archdeacon himself was kept a little
in abeyance, and was hardly allowed free intercourse with his own magnificent child. Indeed,
to give him his due, it must be said of him that he would not consent to walk in the triumphal
procession which moved with stately step, to and fro, through the Barchester regions. He kissed
his daughter and blessed her, and bade her love her husband and be a good wife; but such injunctions
as these, seeing how splendidly she had done her duty in securing to herself a marquess, seemed
out of place and almost vulgar. Girls about to marry curates or sucking barristers should be
told to do their duty in that station of life to which God might be calling them; but it seemed
to be almost an impertinence in a father to give such an injunction to a future marchioness.

"I do not think that you have any ground for fear on her behalf," said Mrs. Grantly, "seeing
in what way she has hitherto conducted herself."

"She has been a good girl," said the archdeacon, "but she is about to be placed in a position
of great temptation."

"She has a strength of mind suited for any position," replied Mrs. Grantly, vaingloriously.
But nevertheless even the archdeacon moved about through the close at Barchester with a somewhat
prouder step since the tidings of this alliance had become known there. The time had been--in
the latter days of his father's lifetime--when he was the greatest man of the close. The dean
had been old and infirm, and Dr. Grantly had wielded the bishop's authority. But since that
things had altered. A new bishop had come there, absolutely hostile to him. A new dean had
also come, who was not only his friend, but the brother-in-law of his wife; but even this advent
had lessened the authority of the archdeacon. The vicars choral did not hang upon his words
as they had been wont to do, and the minor canons smiled in return to his smile less obsequiously
when they met him in the clerical circles of Barchester. But now it seemed that his old supremacy
was restored to him. In the minds of many men an archdeacon, who was the father-in-law of a
marquess, was himself as good as any bishop. He did not say much of his new connexion to others
beside the dean, but he was conscious of the fact, and conscious also of the reflected glory
which shone around his own head.

But as regards Mrs. Grantly it may be said that she moved in an unending procession of stately
ovation. It must not be supposed that she continually talked to her friends and neighbours
of Lord Dumbello and the marchioness. She was by far too wise for such folly as that. The coming
alliance having been once announced, the name of Hartletop was hardly mentioned by her out
of her own domestic circle. But she assumed, with an ease that was surprising even to herself,
the airs and graces of a mighty woman. She went through her work of morning calls as though
it were her business to be affable to the country gentry. She astonished her sister, the dean's
wife, by the simplicity of her grandeur; and condescended to Mrs. Proudie in a manner which
nearly broke that lady's heart. "I shall be even with her yet," said Mrs. Proudie to herself,
who had contrived to learn various very deleterious circumstances respecting the Hartletop
family since the news about Lord Dumbello and Griselda had become known to her. Griselda herself
was carried about in the procession, taking but little part in it of her own, like an Eastern
god. She suffered her mother's caresses and smiled in her mother's face as she listened to
her own praises, but her triumph was apparently within. To no one did she say much on the subject,
and greatly disgusted the old family housekeeper by declining altogether to discuss the future
Dumbello ménage. To her aunt, Mrs. Arabin, who strove hard to lead her into some open-hearted
speech as to her future aspirations, she was perfectly impassive. "Oh, yes, aunt, of course,"
and "I'll think about it, Aunt Eleanor," or "Of course I shall do that if Lord Dumbello wishes
it." Nothing beyond this could be got from her; and so, after half a dozen ineffectual attempts,
Mrs. Arabin abandoned the matter.

But then there arose the subject of clothes--of the wedding trousseau! Sarcastic people are
wont to say that the tailor makes the man. Were I such a one, I might certainly assert that
the milliner makes the bride. As regarding her bridehood, in distinction either to her girlhood
or her wifehood--as being a line of plain demarcation between those two periods of a woman's
life--the milliner does do much to make her. She would be hardly a bride if the trousseau were
not there. A girl married without some such appendage would seem to pass into the condition
of a wife without any such line of demarcation. In that moment in which she finds herself in
the first fruition of her marriage finery she becomes a bride; and in that other moment when
she begins to act upon the finest of these things as clothes to be packed up, she becomes a
wife. When this subject was discussed Griselda displayed no lack of a becoming interest. She
went to work steadily, slowly, and almost with solemnity, as though the business in hand were
one which it would be wicked to treat with impatience. She even struck her mother with awe
by the grandeur of her ideas and the depth of her theories. Nor let it be supposed that she
rushed away at once to the consideration of the great fabric which was to be the ultimate sign
and mark of her status, the quintessence of her briding, the outer veil, as it were, of the
tabernacle--namely, her wedding-dress. As a great poet works himself up by degrees to that
inspiration which is necessary for the grand turning-point of his epic, so did she slowly approach
the hallowed ground on which she would sit, with her ministers around her, when about to discuss
the nature, the extent, the design, the colouring, the structure, and the ornamentation of
that momentous piece of apparel. No; there was much indeed to be done before she came to this;
and as the poet, to whom I have already alluded, first invokes his muse, and then brings his
smaller events gradually out upon his stage, so did Miss Grantly with sacred fervour ask her
mother's aid, and then prepare her list of all those articles of underclothing which must be
the substratum for the visible magnificence of her trousseau. Money was no object. We all know
what that means; and frequently understand, when the words are used, that a blaze of splendour
is to be attained at the cheapest possible price. But, in this instance, money was no object;--such
an amount of money, at least, as could by any possibility be spent on a lady's clothes, independently
of her jewels. With reference to diamonds and such like, the archdeacon at once declared his
intention of taking the matter into his own hands--except in so far as Lord Dumbello, or the
Hartletop interest, might be pleased to participate in the selection. Nor was Mrs. Grantly
sorry for such a decision. She was not an imprudent woman, and would have dreaded the responsibility
of trusting herself on such an occasion among the dangerous temptations of a jeweller's shop.
But as far as silks and satins went--in the matter of French bonnets, muslims, velvets, hats,
riding-habits, artificial flowers, head-gilding, curious nettings, enamelled buckles, golden
tagged bobbins, and mechanical petticoats--as regarded shoes, and gloves, and corsets, and
stockings, and linen, and flannel, and calico--money, I may conscientiously assert, was no
object. And, under these circumstances, Griselda Grantly went to work with a solemn industry
and a steady perseverance that was beyond all praise. "I hope she will be happy," Mrs. Arabin
said to her sister, as the two were sitting together in the dean's drawing-room.

"Oh, yes; I think she will. Why should she not?" said the mother.

"Oh, no: I know of no reason. But she is going up into a station so much above her own in the
eyes of the world that one cannot but feel anxious for her."

"I should feel much more anxious if she were going to marry a poor man," said Mrs. Grantly.
"It has always seemed to me that Griselda was fitted for a high position; that nature intended
her for rank and state. You see that she is not a bit elated. She takes it all as if it were
her own by right. I do not think that there is any danger that her head will be turned, if
you mean that."

"I was thinking rather of her heart," said Mrs. Arabin.

"She never would have taken Lord Dumbello without loving him," said Mrs. Grantly, speaking
rather quickly.

"That is not quite what I mean either, Susan. I am sure she would not have accepted him had
she not loved him. But it is so hard to keep the heart fresh among all the grandeurs of high
rank; and it is harder for a girl to do so who has not been born to it, than for one who has
enjoyed it as her birthright."

"I don't quite understand about fresh hearts," said Mrs. Grantly, pettishly. "If she does her
duty, and loves her husband, and fills the position in which God has placed her with propriety,
I don't know that we need look for anything more. I don't at all approve of the plan of frightening
a young girl when she is making her first outset into the world."

"No; I would not frighten her. I think it would be almost difficult to frighten Griselda."

"I hope it would. The great matter with a girl is whether she has been brought up with proper
notions as to a woman's duty. Of course it is not for me to boast on this subject. Such as
she is, I, of course, am responsible. But I must own that I do not see occasion to wish for
any change." And then the subject was allowed to drop.

Among those of her relations who wondered much at the girl's fortune, but allowed themselves
to say but little, was her grandfather, Mr. Harding. He was an old clergyman, plain and simple
in his manners, and not occupying a very prominent position, seeing that he was only precentor
to the chapter. He was loved by his daughter, Mrs. Grantly, and was treated by the archdeacon,
if not invariably with the highest respect, at least always with consideration and regard.
But, old and plain as he was, the young people at Plumstead did not hold him in any great reverence.
He was poorer than their other relatives, and made no attempt to hold his head high in Barsetshire
circles. Moreover, in these latter days, the home of his heart had been at the deanery. He
had, indeed, a lodging of his own in the city, but was gradually allowing himself to be weaned
away from it. He had his own bedroom in the dean's house, his own arm-chair in the dean's library,
and his own corner on a sofa in Mrs. Dean's drawing-room. It was not, therefore, necessary
that he should interfere greatly in this coming marriage; but still it became his duty to say
a word of congratulation to his granddaughter--and perhaps to say a word of advice.

"Grizzy, my dear," he said to her--he always called her Grizzy, but the endearment of the appellation
had never been appreciated by the young lady--"come and kiss me, and let me congratulate you
on your great promotion. I do so very heartily."

"Thank you, grandpapa," she said, touching his forehead with her lips, thus being, as it were,
very sparing with her kiss. But those lips now were august and reserved for nobler foreheads
than that of an old cathedral hack. For Mr. Harding still chanted the Litany from Sunday to
Sunday, unceasingly, standing at that well-known desk in the cathedral choir; and Griselda
had a thought in her mind that when the Hartletop people should hear of the practice they would
not be delighted. Dean and archdeacon might be very well, and if her grandfather had even been
a prebendary, she might have put up with him; but he had, she thought, almost disgraced his
family in being, at his age, one of the working menial clergy of the cathedral. She kissed
him, therefore, sparingly, and resolved that her words with him should be few.

"You are going to be a great lady, Grizzy," said he.

"Umph!" said she.

What was she to say when so addressed?

"And I hope you will be happy--and make others happy."

"I hope I shall," said she.

"But always think most about the latter, my dear. Think about the happiness of those around
you, and your own will come without thinking. You understand that; do you not?"

"Oh, yes, I understand," she said. As they were speaking Mr. Harding still held her hand, but
Griselda left it with him unwillingly, and therefore ungraciously, looking as though she were
dragging it from him.

"And Grizzy--I believe it is quite as easy for a rich countess to be happy, as for a dairymaid--"
Griselda gave her head a little chuck which was produced by two different operations of her
mind. The first was a reflection that her grandpapa was robbing her of her rank. She was to
be a rich marchioness. And the second was a feeling of anger at the old man for comparing her
lot to that of a dairymaid.

"Quite as easy, I believe," continued he; "though others will tell you that it is not so. But
with the countess as with the dairymaid, it must depend on the woman herself. Being a countess--that
fact alone won't make you happy."

"Lord Dumbello at present is only a viscount," said Griselda. "There is no earl's title in
the family."

"Oh! I did not know," said Mr. Harding, relinquishing his granddaughter's hand; and, after
that, he troubled her with no further advice. Both Mrs. Proudie and the bishop had called at
Plumstead since Mrs. Grantly had come back from London, and the ladies from Plumstead, of course,
returned the visit. It was natural that the Grantlys and Proudies should hate each other. They
were essentially Church people, and their views on all Church matters were antagonistic. They
had been compelled to fight for supremacy in the diocese, and neither family had so conquered
the other as to have become capable of magnanimity and good-humour. They did hate each other,
and this hatred had, at one time, almost produced an absolute disseverance of even the courtesies
which are so necessary between a bishop and his clergy. But the bitterness of this rancour
had been overcome, and the ladies of the families had continued on visiting terms. But now
this match was almost more than Mrs. Proudie could bear. The great disappointment which, as
she well knew, the Grantlys had encountered in that matter of the proposed new bishopric had
for the moment mollified her. She had been able to talk of poor dear Mrs. Grantly! "She is
heartbroken, you know, in this matter, and the repetition of such misfortunes is hard to bear,"
she had been heard to say, with a complacency which had been quite becoming to her. But now
that complacency was at an end. Olivia Proudie had just accepted a widowed preacher at a district
church in Bethnal Green--a man with three children, who was dependent on pew-rents; and Griselda
Grantly was engaged to the eldest son of the Marquess of Hartletop! When women are enjoined
to forgive their enemies it cannot be intended that such wrongs as these should be included.
But Mrs. Proudie's courage was nothing daunted. It may be boasted of her that nothing could
daunt her courage. Soon after her return to Barchester, she and Olivia--Olivia being very unwilling--had
driven over to Plumstead, and, not finding the Grantlys at home, had left their cards; and
now, at a proper interval, Mrs. Grantly and Griselda returned the visit. It was the first time
that Miss Grantly had been seen by the Proudie ladies since the fact of her engagement had
become known.

The first bevy of compliments that passed might be likened to a crowd of flowers on a hedge
rose-bush. They were beautiful to the eye, but were so closely environed by thorns that they
could not be plucked without great danger. As long as the compliments were allowed to remain
on the hedge--while no attempt was made to garner them and realize their fruits for enjoyment--they
did no mischief; but the first finger that was put forth for such a purpose was soon drawn
back, marked with spots of blood. "Of course it is a great match for Griselda," said Mrs. Grantly,
in a whisper the meekness of which would have disarmed an enemy whose weapons were less firmly
clutched than those of Mrs. Proudie; "but, independently of that, the connexion is one which
is gratifying in many ways."

"Oh, no doubt," said Mrs. Proudie.

"Lord Dumbello is so completely his own master," continued Mrs. Grantly, and a slight, unintended
semi-tone of triumph mingled itself with the meekness of that whisper.

"And is likely to remain so, from all I hear," said Mrs. Proudie, and the scratched hand was
at once drawn back.

"Of course the estab--," and then Mrs. Proudie, who was blandly continuing her list of congratulations,
whispered her sentence close into the car of Mrs. Grantly, so that not a word of what she said
might be audible by the young people.

"I never heard a word of it," said Mrs. Grantly, gathering herself up, "and I don't believe it."

"Oh, I may be wrong; and I'm sure I hope so. But young men will be young men, you know;--and
children will take after their parents. I suppose you will see a great deal of the Duke of
Omnium now." But Mrs. Grantly was not a woman to be knocked down and trampled on without resistance;
and though she had been lacerated by the rose-bush she was not as yet placed altogether hors
de combat. She said some word about the Duke of Omnium very tranquilly, speaking of him merely
as a Barsetshire proprietor, and then, smiling with her sweetest smile, expressed a hope that
she might soon have the pleasure of becoming acquainted with Mr. Tickler; and as she spoke
she made a pretty little bow towards Olivia Proudie. Now Mr. Tickler was the worthy clergyman
attached to the district church at Bethnal Green.

"He'll be down here in August," said Olivia, boldly, determined not to be shamefaced about
her love affairs.

"You'll be starring it about the Continent by that time, my dear," said Mrs. Proudie to Griselda.
"Lord Dumbello is well known at Homburg and Ems, and places of that sort; so you will find
yourself quite at home."

"We are going to Rome," said Griselda, majestically.

"I suppose Mr. Tickler will come into the diocese soon," said Mrs. Grantly. "I remember hearing
him very favourably spoken of by Mr. Slope, who was a friend of his." Nothing short of a fixed
resolve on the part of Mrs. Grantly that the time had now come in which she must throw away
her shield and stand behind her sword, declare war to the knife, and neither give nor take
quarter, could have justified such a speech as this. Any allusion to Mr. Slope acted on Mrs.
Proudie as a red cloth is supposed to act on a bull; but when that allusion connected the name
of Mr. Slope in a friendly bracket with that of Mrs. Proudie's future son-in-law it might be
certain that the effect would be terrific. And there was more than this: for that very Mr.
Slope had once entertained audacious hopes--hopes not thought to be audacious by the young
lady herself--with reference to Miss Olivia Proudie. All this Mrs. Grantly knew, and, knowing
it, still dared to mention his name.

The countenance of Mrs. Proudie became darkened with black anger, and the polished smile of
her company manners gave place before the outraged feelings of her nature. "The man you speak
of, Mrs. Grantly," said she, "was never known as a friend by Mr. Tickler."

"Oh, indeed," said Mrs. Grantly. "Perhaps I have made a mistake. I am sure I have heard Mr.
Slope mention him."

"When Mr. Slope was running after your sister, Mrs. Grantly, and was encouraged by her as he
was, you perhaps saw more of him than I did."

"Mrs. Proudie, that was never the case."

"I have reason to know that the archdeacon conceived it to be so, and that he was very unhappy
about it." Now this, unfortunately, was a fact which Mrs. Grantly could not deny.

"The archdeacon may have been mistaken about Mr. Slope," she said, "as were some other people
at Barchester. But it was you, I think, Mrs. Proudie, who were responsible for bringing him
here." Mrs. Grantly, at this period of the engagement, might have inflicted a fatal wound by
referring to poor Olivia's former love affairs, but she was not destitute of generosity. Even
in the extremest heat of the battle she knew how to spare the young and tender.

"When I came here, Mrs. Grantly, I little dreamed what a depth of wickedness might be found
in the very close of a cathedral city," said Mrs. Proudie.

"Then, for dear Olivia's sake, pray do not bring poor Mr. Tickler to Barchester."

"Mr. Tickler, Mrs. Grantly, is a man of assured morals and of a highly religious tone of thinking.
I wish every one could be so safe as regards their daughters' future prospects as I am."

"Yes, I know he has the advantage of being a family man," said Mrs. Grantly, getting up. "Good
morning, Mrs. Proudie; good day, Olivia."

"A great deal better that than--" But the blow fell upon the empty air; for Mrs. Grantly had
already escaped on to the staircase while Olivia was ringing the bell for the servant to attend
the front-door.

Mrs. Grantly, as she got into her carriage, smiled slightly, thinking of the battle, and as
she sat down she gently pressed her daughter's hand. But Mrs Proudie's face was still dark
as Acheron when her enemy withdrew, and with angry tone she sent her daughter to her work.
"Mr. Tickler will have great reason to complain if, in your position, you indulge such habits
of idleness," she said. Therefore I conceive that I am justified in saying that in that encounter
Mrs. Grantly was the conqueror.

CHAPTER XLI

Don Quixote

On the day on which Lucy had her interview with Lady Lufton the dean dined at Framley parsonage.
He and Robarts had known each other since the latter had been in the diocese, and now, owing
to Mark's preferment in the chapter, had become almost intimate. The dean was greatly pleased
with the manner in which poor Mr. Crawley's children had been conveyed away from Hogglestock,
and was inclined to open his heart to the whole Framley household. As he still had to ride
home he could only allow himself to remain half an hour after dinner, but in that half-hour
he said a great deal about Crawley, complimented Robarts on the manner in which he was playing
the part of the Good Samaritan, and then by degrees informed him that it had come to his, the
dean's, ears, before he left Barchester, that a writ was in the hands of certain persons in
the city, enabling them to seize--he did not know whether it was the person or the property
of the vicar of Framley.

The fact was that these tidings had been conveyed to the dean with the express intent that
he might put Robarts on his guard; but the task of speaking on such a subject to a brother
clergyman had been so unpleasant to him that he had been unable to introduce it till the last
five minutes before his departure. "I hope you will not put it down as an impertinent interference,"
said the dean, apologizing.

"No," said Mark; "no, I do not think that." He was so sad at heart that he hardly knew how
to speak of it.

"I do not understand much about such matters," said the dean; "but I think, if I were you,
I should go to a lawyer. I should imagine that anything so terribly disagreeable as an arrest
might be avoided."

"It is a hard case," said Mark, pleading his own cause. "Though these men have this claim against
me I have never received a shilling either in money or money's worth."

"And yet your name is to the bills!" said the dean.

"Yes, my name is to the bills, certainly, but it was to oblige a friend."

And then the dean, having given his advice, rode away. He could not understand how a clergyman,
situated as was Mr. Robarts, could find himself called upon by friendship to attach his name
to accommodation bills which he had not the power of liquidating when due! On that evening
they were both wretched enough at the parsonage. Hitherto Mark had hoped that perhaps, after
all, no absolutely hostile steps would be taken against him with reference to these bills.
Some unforeseen chance might occur in his favour, or the persons holding them might consent
to take small instalments of payment from time to time; but now it seemed that the evil day
was actually coming upon him at a blow. He had no longer any secrets from his wife. Should
he go to a lawyer? and if so, to what lawyer? And when he had found his lawyer, what should
he say to him? Mrs. Robarts at one time suggested that everything should be told to Lady Lufton.
Mark, however, could not bring himself to do that. "It would seem," he said, "as though I wanted
her to lend me the money."

On the following morning Mark did ride into Barchester, dreading, however, lest he should be
arrested on his journey, and he did see a lawyer. During his absence two calls were made at
the parsonage--one by a very rough-looking individual, who left a suspicious document in the
hands of the servant, purporting to be an invitation--not to dinner--from one of the Judges
of the land; and the other call was made by Lady Lufton in person.

Mrs. Robarts had determined to go down to Framley Court on that day. In accordance with her
usual custom she would have been there within an hour or two of Lady Lufton's return from London,
but things between them were not now as they usually had been. This affair of Lucy's must make
a difference, let them both resolve to the contrary as they might. And, indeed, Mrs. Robarts
had found that the closeness of her intimacy with Framley Court had been diminishing from day
to day since Lucy had first begun to be on friendly terms with Lord Lufton. Since that she
had been less at Framley Court than usual; she had heard from Lady Lufton less frequently by
letter during her absence than she had done in former years, and was aware that she was less
implicitly trusted with all the affairs of the parish. This had not made her angry, for she
was in a manner conscious that it must be so. It made her unhappy, but what could she do? She
could not blame Lucy, nor could she blame Lady Lufton. Lord Lufton she did blame, but she did
so in the hearing of no one but her husband. Her mind, however, was made up to go over and
bear the first brunt of her ladyship's arguments, when she was stopped by her ladyship's arrival.
If it were not for this terrible matter of Lucy's love--a matter on which they could not now
be silent when they met--there would be twenty subjects of pleasant, or, at any rate, not unpleasant
conversation. But even then there would be those terrible bills hanging over her conscience,
and almost crushing her by their weight. At the moment in which Lady Lufton walked up to the
drawing-room window, Mrs. Robarts held in her hand that ominous invitation from the Judge.
Would it not be well that she should make a clean breast of it all, disregarding what her husband
had said? It might be well: only this--she had never done anything in opposition to her husband's
wishes. So she hid the slip within her desk, and left the matter open to consideration. The
interview commenced with an affectionate embrace, as was a matter of course. "Dear Fanny,"
and "Dear Lady Lufton," was said between them with all the usual warmth. And then the first
inquiry was made about the children, and the second about the school. For a minute or two Mrs.
Robarts thought that, perhaps, nothing was to be said about Lucy. If it pleased Lady Lufton
to be silent, she, at least, would not commence the subject. Then there was a word or two spoken
about Mrs. Podgens's baby, after which Lady Lufton asked whether Fanny were alone. "Yes," said
Mrs. Robarts. "Mark has gone over to Barchester."

"I hope he will not be long before he lets me see him. Perhaps he can call to-morrow. Would
you both come and dine to-morrow?"

"Not to-morrow, I think, Lady Lufton; but Mark, I am sure, will go over and call."

"And why not come to dinner? I hope there is to be no change among us, eh, Fanny?" and Lady
Lufton as she spoke looked into the other's face in a manner which almost made Mrs. Robarts
get up and throw herself on her old friend's neck. Where was she to find a friend who would
give her such constant love as she had received from Lady Lufton? And who was kinder, better,
more honest than she?

"Change! no, I hope not, Lady Lufton;" and as she spoke the tears stood in her eyes.

"Ah, but I shall think there is if you will not come to me as you used to do. You always used
to come and dine with me the day I came home, as a matter of course." What could she say, poor
woman, to this?

"We were all in confusion yesterday about poor Mrs. Crawley, and the dean dined here; he had
been over at Hogglestock to see his friend."

"I have heard of her illness, and will go over and see what ought to be done. Don't you go,
do you hear, Fanny? You with your young children! I should never forgive you if you did." And
then Mrs. Robarts explained how Lucy had gone there, had sent the four children back to Framley,
and was herself now staying at Hogglestock with the object of nursing Mrs. Crawley. In telling
the story she abstained from praising Lucy with all the strong language which she would have
used had not Lucy's name and character been at the present moment of peculiar import to Lady
Lufton; but nevertheless she could not tell it without dwelling much on Lucy's kindness. It
would have been ungenerous to Lady Lufton to make much of Lucy's virtue at this present moment,
but unjust to Lucy to make nothing of it.

"And she is actually with Mrs. Crawley now?" asked Lady Lufton.

"Oh, yes; Mark left her there yesterday afternoon."

"And the four children are all here in the house?"

"Not exactly in the house--that is, not as yet. We have arranged a sort of quarantine hospital
over the coach-house."

"What, where Stubbs lives?"

"Yes; Stubbs and his wife have come into the house, and the children are to remain up there
till the doctor says that there is no danger of infection. I have not even seen my visitors
myself as yet," said Mrs. Robarts with a slight laugh.

"Dear me!" said Lady Lufton. "I declare you have been very prompt. And so Miss Robarts is over
there! I should have thought Mr. Crawley would have made a difficulty about the children."

"Well, he did; but they kidnapped them--that is, Lucy and Mark did. The dean gave me such an
account of it. Lucy brought them out by twos and packed them in the pony-carriage, and then
Mark drove off at a gallop while Mr. Crawley stood calling to them in the road. The dean was
there at the time and saw it all."

"That Miss Lucy of yours seems to be a very determined young lady when she takes a thing into
her head," said Lady Lufton, now sitting down for the first time.

"Yes, she is," said Mrs. Robarts, having laid aside all her pleasant animation, for the discussion
which she dreaded was now at hand.

"A very determined young lady," continued Lady Lufton. "Of course, my dear Fanny, you know
all this about Ludovic and your sister-in-law?"

"Yes, she has told me about it."

"It is very unfortunate--very."

"I do not think Lucy has been to blame," said Mrs. Robarts; and as she spoke the blood was
already mounting to her cheeks.

"Do not be too anxious to defend her, my dear, before any one accuses her. Whenever a person
does that it looks as though their cause were weak."

"But my cause is not weak as far as Lucy is concerned; I feel quite sure that she has not been
to blame."

"I know how obstinate you can be, Fanny, when you think it necessary to dub yourself any one's
champion. Don Quixote was not a better knight-errant than you are. But is it not a pity to
take up your lance and shield before an enemy is within sight or hearing? But that was ever
the way with your Don Quixotes."

"Perhaps there may be an enemy in ambush." That was Mrs. Robarts's thought to herself, but
she did not dare to express it, so she remained silent.

"My only hope is," continued Lady Lufton, "that when my back is turned you fight as gallantly
for me."

"Ah, you are never under a cloud, like poor Lucy."

"Am I not? But, Fanny, you do not see all the clouds. The sun does not always shine for any
of us, and the down-pouring rain and the heavy wind scatter also my fairest flowers--as they
have done hers, poor girl. Dear Fanny, I hope it may be long before any cloud comes across
the brightness of your heaven. Of all the creatures I know you are the one most fitted for
quiet continued sunshine." And then Mrs. Robarts did get up and embrace her friend, thus hiding
the tears which were running down her face. Continued sunshine indeed! A dark spot had already
gathered on her horizon, which was likely to fall in a very waterspout of rain. What was to
come of that terrible notice which was now lying in the desk under Lady Lufton's very arm?

"But I am not come here to croak like an old raven," continued Lady Lufton, when she had brought
this embrace to an end. "It is probable that we all may have our sorrows; but I am quite sure
of this,--that if we endeavour to do our duties honestly, we shall all find our consolation
and all have our joys also. And now, my dear, let you and I say a few words about this unfortunate
affair. It would not be natural if we were to hold our tongues to each other; would it?"

"I suppose not," said Mrs. Robarts.

"We should always be conceiving worse than the truth--each as to the other's thoughts. Now,
some time ago, when I spoke to you about your sister-in-law and Ludovic--I dare say you remember--"

"Oh, yes, I remember."

"We both thought then that there would really be no danger. To tell you the plain truth I fancied,
and indeed hoped, that his affections were engaged elsewhere; but I was altogether wrong then;
wrong in thinking it, and wrong in hoping it." Mrs. Robarts knew well that Lady Lufton was
alluding to Griselda Grantly, but she conceived that it would be discreet to say nothing herself
on that subject at present. She remembered, however, Lucy's flashing eye when the possibility
of Lord Lufton making such a marriage was spoken of in the pony-carriage, and could not but
feel glad that Lady Lufton had been disappointed.

"I do not at all impute any blame to Miss Robarts for what has occurred since," continued her
ladyship. "I wish you distinctly to understand that."

"I do not see how any one could blame her. She has behaved so nobly."

"It is of no use inquiring whether any one can. It is sufficient that I do not."

"But I think that is hardly sufficient," said Mrs. Robarts, pertinaciously.

"Is it not?" asked her ladyship, raising her eyebrows.

"No. Only think what Lucy has done and is doing. If she had chosen to say that she would accept
your son I really do not know how you could have justly blamed her. I do not by any means say
that I would have advised such a thing."

"I am glad of that, Fanny."

"I have not given any advice; nor is it needed. I know no one more able than Lucy to see clearly,
by her own judgement, what course she ought to pursue. I should be afraid to advise one whose
mind is so strong, and who, of her own nature, is so self-denying as she is. She is sacrificing
herself now, because she will not be the means of bringing trouble and dissension between you
and your son. If you ask me, Lady Lufton, I think you owe her a deep debt of gratitude. I do,
indeed. And as for blaming her--what has she done that you possibly could blame?"

"Don Quixote on horseback!" said Lady Lufton. "Fanny, I shall always call you Don Quixote,
and some day or other I will get somebody to write your adventures. But the truth is this,
my dear; there has been imprudence. You may call it mine, if you will--though I really hardly
see how I am to take the blame. I could not do other than ask Miss Robarts to my house, and
I could not very well turn my son out of it. In point of fact, it has been the old story."

"Exactly; the story that is as old as the world, and which will continue as long as people
are born into it. It is a story of God's own telling."

"But, my dear child, you do not mean that every young gentleman and every young lady should
fall in love with each other directly they meet! Such a doctrine would be very inconvenient."

"No, I do not mean that. Lord Lufton and Miss Grantly did not fall in love with each other,
though you meant them to do so. But was it not quite as natural that Lord Lufton and Lucy should
do so instead?"

"It is generally thought, Fanny, that young ladies should not give loose to their affections
until they have been certified of their friends' approval."

"And that young gentlemen of fortune may amuse themselves as they please! I know that is what
the world teaches, but I cannot agree to the justice of it. The terrible suffering which Lucy
has to endure makes me cry out against it. She did not seek your son. The moment she began
to suspect that there might be danger she avoided him scrupulously. She would not go down to
Framley Court, though her not doing so was remarked by yourself. She would hardly go out about
the place lest she should meet him. She was contented to put herself altogether in the background
till he should have pleased to leave the place. But he--he came to her here, and insisted on
seeing her. He found her when I was out, and declared himself determined to speak to her. What
was she to do? She did try to escape, but he stopped her at the door. Was it her fault that
he made her an offer?"

"My dear, no one has said so."

"Yes, but you do say so when you tell me that young ladies should not give play to their affections
without permission. He persisted in saying to her, here, all that it pleased him, though she
implored him to be silent. I cannot tell the words she used, but she did implore him."

"I do not doubt that she behaved well."

"But he--he persisted, and begged her to accept his hand. She refused him then, Lady Lufton--not
as some girls do, with a mock reserve, not intending to be taken at their words--but steadily,
and, God forgive her, untruly. Knowing what your feelings would be, and knowing what the world
would say, she declared to him that he was indifferent to her. What more could she do in your
behalf?" And then Mrs. Robarts paused.

"I shall wait till you have done, Fanny."

"You spoke of girls giving loose to their affections. She did not do so. She went about her
work exactly as she had done before. She did not even speak to me of what had passed--not then,
at least. She determined that it should all be as though it had never been. She had learned
to love your son; but that was her misfortune, and she would get over it as she might. Tidings
came to us here that he was engaged, or about to engage himself, to Miss Grantly."

"Those tidings were untrue."

"Yes, we know that now; but she did not know it then. Of course she could not but suffer; but
she suffered within herself." Mrs. Robarts, as she said this, remembered the pony-carriage
and how Puck had been beaten. "She made no complaint that he had ill-treated her--not even
to herself. She had thought it right to reject his offer; and there, as far as he was concerned,
was to be an end of it."

"That would be a matter of course, I should suppose."

"But it was not a matter of course, Lady Lufton. He returned from London to Framley on purpose
to repeat his offer. He sent for her brother-- You talk of a young lady waiting for her friends'
approval. In this matter who would be Lucy's friends?"

"You and Mr. Robarts, of course."

"Exactly; her only friends. Well, Lord Lufton sent for Mark and repeated his offer to him.
Mind you, Mark had never heard a word of this before, and you may guess whether or no he was
surprised. Lord Lufton repeated his offer in the most formal manner, and claimed permission
to see Lucy. She refused to see him. She has never seen him since that day when, in opposition
to all her efforts, he made his way into this room. Mark,--as I think very properly,--would
have allowed Lord Lufton to come up here. Looking at both their ages and position he could
have had no right to forbid it. But Lucy positively refused to see your son, and sent him a
message instead, of the purport of which you are now aware--that she would never accept him
unless she did so at your request."

"It was a very proper message."

"I say nothing about that. Had she accepted him I would not have blamed her; and so I told
her, Lady Lufton."

"I cannot understand your saying that, Fanny."

"Well; I did say so. I don't want to argue now about myself,--whether I was right or wrong,
but I did say so. Whatever sanction I could give she would have had. But she again chose to
sacrifice herself, although I believe she regards him with as true a love as ever a girl felt
for a man. Upon my word I don't know that she is right. Those considerations for the world
may perhaps be carried too far."

"I think that she was perfectly right."

"Very well, Lady Lufton; I can understand that. But after such sacrifice on her part--a sacrifice
made entirely to you--how can you talk of 'not blaming her'? Is that the language in which
you speak of those whose conduct from first to last has been superlatively excellent? If she
is open to blame at all, it is--it is--" But here Mrs. Robarts stopped herself. In defending
her sister she had worked herself almost into a passion; but such a state of feeling was not
customary to her, and now that she had spoken her mind she sank suddenly into silence.

"It seems to me, Fanny, that you almost regret Miss Robarts's decision," said Lady Lufton.

"My wish in this matter is for her happiness, and I regret anything that may mar it."

"You think nothing then of our welfare, and yet I do not know to whom I might have looked for
hearty friendship and for sympathy in difficulties, if not to you?" Poor Mrs. Robarts was almost
upset by this. A few months ago, before Lucy's arrival, she would have declared that the interests
of Lady Lufton's family would have been paramount with her, after and next to those of her
own husband. And even now, it seemed to argue so black an ingratitude on her part--this accusation
that she was indifferent to them! From her childhood upwards she had revered and loved Lady
Lufton, and for years had taught herself to regard her as an epitome of all that was good and
gracious in woman. Lady Lufton's theories of life had been accepted by her as the right theories,
and those whom Lady Lufton had liked she had liked. But now it seemed that all these ideas
which it had taken a life to build up were to be thrown to the ground, because she was bound
to defend a sister-in-law whom she had only known for the last eight months. It was not that
she regretted a word that she had spoken on Lucy's behalf. Chance had thrown her and Lucy together,
and, as Lucy was her sister, she should receive from her a sister's treatment. But she did
not the less feel how terrible would be the effect of any disseverance from Lady Lufton. "Oh,
Lady Lufton," she said, "do not say that."

"But Fanny, dear, I must speak as I find. You were talking about clouds just now, and do you
think that all this is not a cloud in my sky? Ludovic tells me that he is attached to Miss
Robarts, and you tell me that she is attached to him; and I am called upon to decide between
them. Her very act obliges me to do so."

"Dear Lady Lufton," said Mrs. Robarts, springing from her seat. It seemed to her at the moment
as though the whole difficulty were to be solved by an act of grace on the part of an old friend.

"And yet I cannot approve of such a marriage," said Lady Lufton. Mrs. Robarts returned to her
seat saying nothing further.

"Is not that a cloud on one's horizon?" continued her ladyship. "Do you think that I can be
basking in the sunshine while I have such a weight upon my heart as that? Ludovic will soon
be home, but instead of looking to his return with pleasure I dread it. I would prefer that
he should remain in Norway. I would wish that he should stay away for months. And, Fanny, it
is a great addition to my misfortune to feel that you do not sympathize with me." Having said
this, in a slow, sorrowful, and severe tone, Lady Lufton got up and took her departure. Of
course Mrs. Robarts did not let her go without assuring her that she did sympathize with her,--did
love her as she ever had loved her. But wounds cannot be cured as easily as they may be inflicted,
and Lady Lufton went her way with much real sorrow at her heart. She was proud and masterful,
fond of her own way, and much too careful of the worldly dignities to which her lot had called
her: but she was a woman who could cause no sorrow to those she loved without deep sorrow to
herself.

CHAPTER XLII

Touching Pitch

In these hot midsummer days, the end of June and the beginning of July, Mr. Sowerby had but
an uneasy time of it. At his sister's instance, he had hurried up to London, and there had
remained for days in attendance on the lawyers. He had to see new lawyers, Miss Dunstable's
men of business, quiet old cautious gentlemen whose place of business was in a dark alley behind
the Bank, Messrs. Slow & Bideawhile by name, who had no scruple in detaining him for hours
while they or their clerks talked to him about anything or about nothing. It was of vital consequence
to Mr. Sowerby that this business of his should be settled without delay, and yet these men,
to whose care this settling was now confided, went on as though law processes were a sunny
bank on which it delighted men to bask easily. And then, too, he had to go more than once to
South Audley Street, which was a worse infliction; for the men in South Audley Street were
less civil now than had been their wont. It was well understood there that Mr. Sowerby was
no longer a client of the duke's, but his opponent; no longer his nominee and dependant, but
his enemy in the county. "Chaldicotes," as old Mr. Gumption remarked to young Mr. Gazebee;
"Chaldicotes, Gazebee, is a cooked goose, as far as Sowerby is concerned. And what difference
could it make to him whether the duke is to own it or Miss Dunstable? For my part I cannot
understand how a gentleman like Sowerby can like to see his property go into the hands of a
gallipot wench whose money still smells of bad drugs. And nothing can be more ungrateful,"
he said, "than Sowerby's conduct. He has held the county for five-and-twenty years without
expense; and now that the time for payment has come, he begrudges the price." He called it
no better than cheating, he did not--he, Mr. Gumption. According to his ideas Sowerby was attempting
to cheat the duke. It may be imagined, therefore, that Mr. Sowerby did not feel any very great
delight in attending at South Audley Street. And then rumour was spread about among all the
bill-discounting leeches that blood was once more to be sucked from the Sowerby carcass. The
rich Miss Dunstable had taken up his affairs; so much as that became known in the purlieus
of the Goat and Compasses. Tom Tozer's brother declared that she and Sowerby were going to
make a match of it, and that any scrap of paper with Sowerby's name on it would become worth
its weight in bank-notes; but Tom Tozer himself--Tom, who was the real hero of the family--pooh-poohed
at this, screwing up his nose, and alluding in most contemptuous terms to his brother's softness.
He knew better--as was indeed the fact. Miss Dunstable was buying up the squire, and by Jingo
she should buy them up--them, the Tozers, as well as others! They knew their value, the Tozers
did;--whereupon they became more than ordinarily active. From them and all their brethren Mr.
Sowerby at this time endeavoured to keep his distance, but his endeavours were not altogether
effectual. Whenever he could escape for a day or two from the lawyers he ran down to Chaldicotes;
but Tom Tozer in his perseverance followed him there, and boldly sent in his name by the servant
at the front door.

"Mr. Sowerby is not just at home at the present moment," said the well-trained domestic.

"I'll wait about then," said Tom, seating himself on an heraldic stone griffin which flanked
the big stone steps before the house. And in this way Mr. Tozer gained his purpose. Sowerby
was still contesting the county, and it behoved him not to let his enemies say that he was
hiding himself. It had been a part of his bargain with Miss Dunstable that he should contest
the county. She had taken it into her head that the duke had behaved badly, and she had resolved
that he should be made to pay for it. "The duke," she said, "had meddled long enough;" she
would now see whether the Chaldicotes interest would not suffice of itself to return a member
for the county, even in opposition to the duke. Mr. Sowerby himself was so harassed at the
time, that he would have given way on this point if he had had the power; but Miss Dunstable
was determined, and he was obliged to yield to her. In this manner Mr. Tom Tozer succeeded
and did make his way into Mr. Sowerby's presence--of which intrusion one effect was the following
letter from Mr. Sowerby to his friend Mark Robarts:--

   Chaldicotes, July, 185--.

   MY DEAR ROBARTS,

   I am so harassed at the present moment by an infinity
   of troubles of my own that I am almost callous to those
   of other people. They say that prosperity makes a man
   selfish. I have never tried that, but I am quite sure that
   adversity does so. Nevertheless I am anxious about those
   bills of yours--

"Bills of mine!" said Robarts to himself, as he walked up and down the shrubbery path at the
parsonage, reading this letter. This happened a day or two after his visit to the lawyer at
Barchester.

   --and would rejoice greatly if I thought that I could save
   you from any further annoyance about them. That kite, Tom
   Tozer, has just been with me, and insists that both of
   them shall be paid. He knows--no one better--that no
   consideration was given for the latter. But he knows also
   that the dealing was not with him, nor even with his
   brother, and he will be prepared to swear that he gave
   value for both. He would swear anything for five hundred
   pounds--or for half the money, for that matter. I do not
   think that the father of mischief ever let loose upon the
   world a greater rascal than Tom Tozer.

   He declares that nothing shall induce him to take one
   shilling less than the whole sum of nine hundred pounds.
   He has been brought to this by hearing that my debts are
   about to be paid. Heaven help me! The meaning of that is
   that these wretched acres, which are now mortgaged to
   one millionaire, are to change hands and be mortgaged to
   another instead. By this exchange I may possibly obtain
   the benefit of having a house to live in for the next
   twelve months, but no other. Tozer, however, is altogether
   wrong in his scent; and the worst of it is that his malice
   will fall on you rather than on me.

   What I want you to do is this: let us pay him one hundred
   pounds between us. Though I sell the last sorry jade of a
   horse I have, I will make up fifty; and I know you can, at
   any rate, do as much as that. Then do you accept a bill,
   conjointly with me, for eight hundred. It shall be done
   in Forrest's presence, and handed to him; and you shall
   receive back the two old bills into your own hands at the
   same time. This new bill should be timed to run ninety
   days; and I will move heaven and earth, during that time,
   to have it included in the general schedule of my debts
   which are to be secured on the Chaldicotes property.

The meaning of which was that Miss Dunstable was to be cozened into paying the money under
an idea that it was a part of the sum covered by the existing mortgage.

   What you said the other day at Barchester, as to never
   executing another bill, is very well as regards future
   transactions. Nothing can be wiser than such a resolution.
   But it would be folly--worse than folly--if you were
   to allow your furniture to be seized when the means of
   preventing it are so ready to your hand. By leaving the
   new bill in Forrest's hands you may be sure that you are
   safe from the claws of such birds of prey as these Tozers.
   Even if I cannot get it settled when the three months are
   over, Forrest will enable you to make any arrangement that
   may be most convenient.

   For Heaven's sake, my dear fellow, do not refuse this.
   You can hardly conceive how it weighs upon me, this fear
   that bailiffs should make their way into your wife's
   drawing-room. I know you think ill of me, and I do not
   wonder at it. But you would be less inclined to do so if
   you knew how terribly I am punished. Pray let me hear that
   you will do as I counsel you.

   Yours always faithfully,

   N. SOWERBY.

In answer to which the parson wrote a very short reply:--

   Framley, July, 185--.

   MY DEAR SOWERBY,

   I will sign no more bills on any consideration.

   Yours truly,

   MARK ROBARTS.

And then having written this, and having shown it to his wife, he returned to the shrubbery
walk and paced it up and down, looking every now and then to Sowerby's letter as he thought
over all the past circumstances of his friendship with that gentleman. That the man who had
written this letter should be his friend--that very fact was a disgrace to him. Sowerby so
well knew himself and his own reputation, that he did not dare to suppose that his own word
would be taken for anything,--not even when the thing promised was an act of the commonest
honesty. "The old bills shall be given back into your own hands," he had declared with energy,
knowing that his friend and correspondent would not feel himself secure against further fraud
under less stringent guarantee. This gentleman, this county member, the owner of Chaldicotes,
with whom Mark Robarts had been so anxious to be on terms of intimacy, had now come to such
a phase of life that he had given over speaking of himself as an honest man. He had become
so used to suspicion that he argued of it as of a thing of course. He knew that no one could
trust either his spoken or his written word, and he was content to speak and to write without
attempt to hide this conviction. And this was the man whom he had been so glad to call his
friend; for whose sake he had been willing to quarrel with Lady Lufton, and at whose instance
he had unconsciously abandoned so many of the best resolutions of his life. He looked back
now, as he walked there slowly, still holding the letter in his hand, to the day when he had
stopped at the school-house and written his letter to Mr. Sowerby, promising to join the party
at Chaldicotes. He had been so eager then to have his own way, that he would not permit himself
to go home and talk the matter over with his wife. He thought also of the manner in which he
had been tempted to the house of the Duke of Omnium, and the conviction on his mind at the
time that his giving way to that temptation would surely bring him to evil. And then he remembered
the evening in Sowerby's bedroom, when the bill had been brought out, and he had allowed himself
to be persuaded to put his name upon it--not because he was willing in this way to assist his
friend, but because he was unable to refuse. He had lacked the courage to say, "No," though
he knew at the time how gross was the error which he was committing. He had lacked the courage
to say, "No," and hence had come upon him and on his household all this misery and cause for
bitter repentance.

I have written much of clergymen, but in doing so I have endeavoured to portray them as they
bear on our social life rather than to describe the mode and working of their professional
careers. Had I done the latter I could hardly have steered clear of subjects on which it has
not been my intention to pronounce an opinion, and I should either have laden my fiction with
sermons or I should have degraded my sermons into fiction. Therefore I have said but little
in my narrative of this man's feelings or doings as a clergyman. But I must protest against
its being on this account considered that Mr. Robarts was indifferent to the duties of his
clerical position. He had been fond of pleasure and had given way to temptation,--as is so
customarily done by young men of six-and-twenty, who are placed beyond control and who have
means at command. Had he remained as a curate till that age, subject in all his movements to
the eye of a superior, he would, we may say, have put his name to no bills, have ridden after
no hounds, have seen nothing of the iniquities of Gatherum Castle. There are men of twenty-six
as fit to stand alone as ever they will be--fit to be prime ministers, heads of schools, Judges
on the Bench--almost fit to be bishops; but Mark Robarts had not been one of them. He had within
him many aptitudes for good, but not the strengthened courage of a man to act up to them. The
stuff of which his manhood was to be formed had been slow of growth, as it is with many men;
and, consequently, when temptation was offered to him, he had fallen. But he deeply grieved
over his own stumbling, and from time to time, as his periods of penitence came upon him, he
resolved that he would once more put his shoulder to the wheel as became one who fights upon
earth that battle for which he had put on the armour. Over and over again did he think of those
words of Mr. Crawley, and now as he walked up and down the path, crumpling Mr. Sowerby's letter
in his hand, he thought of them again--"It is a terrible falling off; terrible in the fall,
but doubly terrible through that difficulty of returning." Yes; that is a difficulty which
multiplies itself in a fearful ratio as one goes on pleasantly running down the path--whitherward?
Had it come to that with him that he could not return--that he could never again hold up his
head with a safe conscience as the pastor of his parish? It was Sowerby who had led him into
this misery, who had brought on him this ruin? But then had not Sowerby paid him? Had not that
stall which he now held in Barchester been Sowerby's gift? He was a poor man now--a distressed,
poverty-stricken man; but nevertheless he wished with all his heart that he had never become
a sharer in the good things of the Barchester chapter. "I shall resign the stall," he said
to his wife that night. "I think I may say that I have made up my mind as to that."

"But, Mark, will not people say that it is odd?"

"I cannot help it--they must say it. Fanny, I fear that we shall have to bear the saying of
harder words than that."

"Nobody can ever say that you have done anything that is unjust or dishonourable. If there
are such men as Mr. Sowerby--"

"The blackness of his fault will not excuse mine." And then again he sat silent, hiding his
eyes, while his wife, sitting by him, held his hand.

"Don't make yourself wretched, Mark. Matters will all come right yet. It cannot be that the
loss of a few hundred pounds should ruin you."

"It is not the money--it is not the money!"

"But you have done nothing wrong, Mark."

"How am I to go into the church, and take my place before them all, when every one will know
that bailiffs are in the house?" And then, dropping his head on to the table, he sobbed aloud.

Mark Robarts's mistake had been mainly this,--he had thought to touch pitch and not to be defiled.
He, looking out from his pleasant parsonage into the pleasant upper ranks of the world around
him, had seen that men and things in those quarters were very engaging. His own parsonage,
with his sweet wife, were exceedingly dear to him, and Lady Lufton's affectionate friendship
had its value; but were not these things rather dull for one who had lived in the best sets
at Harrow and Oxford;--unless, indeed, he could supplement them with some occasional bursts
of more lively life? Cakes and ale were as pleasant to his palate as to the palates of those
with whom he had formerly lived at college. He had the same eye to look at a horse, and the
same heart to make him go across a country, as they. And then, too, he found that men liked
him,--men and women also; men and women who were high in worldly standing. His ass's ears were
tickled, and he learned to fancy that he was intended by nature for the society of high people.
It seemed as though he were following his appointed course in meeting men and women of the
world at the houses of the fashionable and the rich. He was not the first clergyman that had
so lived and had so prospered. Yes, clergymen had so lived, and had done their duties in their
sphere of life altogether to the satisfaction of their countrymen--and of their sovereigns.
Thus Mark Robarts had determined that he would touch pitch, and escape defilement if that were
possible. With what result those who have read so far will have perceived. Late on the following
afternoon who should drive up to the parsonage door but Mr. Forrest, the bank manager from
Barchester--Mr. Forrest, to whom Sowerby had always pointed as the Deus ex machina who, if
duly invoked, could relieve them all from their present troubles, and dismiss the whole Tozer
family--not howling into the wilderness, as one would have wished to do with that brood of
Tozers, but so gorged with prey that from them no further annoyance need be dreaded? All this
Mr. Forrest could do; nay, more, most willingly would do! Only let Mark Robarts put himself
into the banker's hand, and blandly sign what documents the banker might desire. "This is a
very unpleasant affair," said Mr. Forrest as soon as they were closeted together in Mark's
book-room. In answer to which observation the parson acknowledged that it was a very unpleasant
affair.

"Mr. Sowerby has managed to put you into the hands of about the worst set of rogues now existing
in their line of business in London."

"So I suppose; Curling told me the same." Curling was the Barchester attorney whose aid he
had lately invoked.

"Curling has threatened them that he will expose their whole trade; but one of them who was
down here, a man named Tozer, replied, that you had much more to lose by exposure than he had.
He went further, and declared that he would defy any jury in England to refuse him his money.
He swore that he discounted both bills in the regular way of business; and, though this is
of course false, I fear that it will be impossible to prove it so. He well knows that you are
a clergyman, and that, therefore, he has a stronger hold on you than on other men."

"The disgrace shall fall on Sowerby," said Robarts, hardly actuated at the moment by any strong
feeling of Christian forgiveness.

"I fear, Mr. Robarts, that he is somewhat in the condition of the Tozers. He will not feel
it as you will do."

"I must bear it, Mr. Forrest, as best I may."

"Will you allow me, Mr. Robarts, to give you my advice? Perhaps I ought to apologize for intruding
it upon you; but as the bills have been presented and dishonoured across my counter, I have,
of necessity, become acquainted with the circumstances."

"I am sure I am very much obliged to you," said Mark.

"You must pay this money, at any rate, the most considerable portion of it;--the whole of it,
indeed, with such deduction as a lawyer may be able to induce these hawks to make on the sight
of the ready money. Perhaps £750 or £800 may see you clear of the whole affair."

"But I have not a quarter of that sum lying by me."

"No, I suppose not; but what I would recommend is this: that you should borrow the money from
the bank, on your own responsibility,--with the joint security of some friend who may be willing
to assist you with his name. Lord Lufton probably would do it."

"No, Mr. Forrest--"

"Listen to me first, before you make up your mind. If you took this step, of course you would
do so with the fixed intention of paying the money yourself,--without any further reliance
on Sowerby or on any one else."

"I shall not rely on Mr. Sowerby again; you may be sure of that."

"What I mean is that you must teach yourself to recognize the debt as your own. If you can
do that, with your income you can surely pay it, with interest, in two years. If Lord Lufton
will assist you with his name, I will so arrange the bills that the payments shall be made
to fall equally over that period. In that way the world will know nothing about it, and in
two years' time you will once more be a free man. Many men, Mr. Robarts, have bought their
experience much dearer than that, I can assure you."

"Mr. Forrest, it is quite out of the question."

"You mean that Lord Lufton will not give you his name."

"I certainly shall not ask him; but that is not all. In the first place, my income will not
be what you think it, for I shall probably give up the prebend at Barchester."

"Give up the prebend! give up six hundred a year!"

"And, beyond this, I think I may say that nothing shall tempt me to put my name to another
bill. I have learned a lesson which I hope I may never forget."

"Then what do you intend to do?"

"Nothing!"

"Then those men will sell every stick of furniture about the place. They know that your property
here is enough to secure all that they claim."

"If they have the power, they must sell it."

"And all the world will know the facts."

"So it must be. Of the faults which a man commits he must bear the punishment. If it were only
myself!"

"That's where it is, Mr. Robarts. Think what your wife will have to suffer in going through
such misery as that! You had better take my advice. Lord Lufton, I am sure--" But the very
name of Lord Lufton, his sister's lover, again gave him courage. He thought, too, of the accusations
which Lord Lufton had brought against him on that night, when he had come to him in the coffee-room
of the hotel, and he felt that it was impossible that he should apply to him for such aid.
It would be better to tell all to Lady Lufton! That she would relieve him, let the cost to
herself be what it might, he was very sure. Only this;--that in looking to her for assistance
he would be forced to bite the dust in very deed.

"Thank you, Mr. Forrest, but I have made up my mind. Do not think that I am the less obliged
to you for your disinterested kindness,--for I know that it is disinterested; but this I think
I may confidently say, that not even to avert so terrible a calamity will I again put my name
to any bill. Even if you could take my own promise to pay without the addition of any second
name, I would not do it." There was nothing for Mr. Forrest to do under such circumstances
but simply to drive back to Barchester. He had done the best for the young clergyman according
to his lights, and perhaps, in a worldly view, his advice had not been bad. But Mark dreaded
the very name of a bill. He was as a dog that had been terribly scorched, and nothing should
again induce him to go near the fire.

"Was not that the man from the bank?" said Fanny, coming into the room when the sound of the
wheels had died away.

"Yes; Mr. Forrest."

"Well, dearest?"

"We must prepare ourselves for the worst."

"You will not sign any more papers, eh, Mark?"

"No; I have just now positively refused to do so."

"Then I can bear anything. But, dearest, dearest Mark, will you not let me tell Lady Lufton?"

Let them look at the matter in any way the punishment was very heavy.

CHAPTER XLIII

Is She Not Insignificant?

And now a month went by at Framley without any increase of comfort to our friends there, and
also without any absolute development of the ruin which had been daily expected at the parsonage.
Sundry letters had reached Mr. Robarts from various personages acting in the Tozer interest,
all of which he referred to Mr. Curling, of Barchester. Some of these letters contained prayers
for the money, pointing out how an innocent widow lady had been induced to invest her all on
the faith of Mr. Robarts's name, and was now starving in a garret, with her three children,
because Mr. Robarts would not make good his own undertakings. But the majority of them were
filled with threats;--only two days longer would be allowed, and then the sheriff's officers
would be enjoined to do their work; then one day of grace would be added, at the expiration
of which the dogs of war would be unloosed. These, as fast as they came, were sent to Mr. Curling,
who took no notice of them individually, but continued his endeavour to prevent the evil day.
The second bill Mr. Robarts would take up--such was Mr. Curling's proposition; and would pay
by two instalments of £250 each, the first in two months, and the second in four. If this were
acceptable to the Tozer interest--well; if it were not, the sheriff's officers must do their
worst and the Tozer interest must look for what it could get. The Tozer interest would not
declare itself satisfied with these terms, and so the matter went on. During which the roses
faded from day to day on the cheeks of Mrs. Robarts, as under such circumstances may easily
be conceived. In the meantime Lucy still remained at Hogglestock, and had there become absolute
mistress of the house. Poor Mrs. Crawley had been at death's door; for some days she was delirious,
and afterwards remained so weak as to be almost unconscious; but now the worst was over, and
Mr. Crawley had been informed, that as far as human judgement might pronounce, his children
would not become orphans nor would he become a widower. During these weeks Lucy had not once
been home nor had she seen any of the Framley people. "Why should she incur the risk of conveying
infection for so small an object?" as she herself argued, writing by letters, which were duly
fumigated before they were opened at the parsonage. So she remained at Hogglestock, and the
Crawley children, now admitted to all the honours of the nursery, were kept at Framley. They
were kept at Framley, although it was expected from day to day that the beds on which they
lay would be seized for the payment of Mr. Sowerby's debts. Lucy, as I have said, became mistress
of the house at Hogglestock, and made herself absolutely ascendant over Mr. Crawley. Jellies,
and broth, and fruit, and even butter, came from Lufton Court, which she displayed on the table,
absolutely on the cloth before him, and yet he bore it. I cannot say that he partook of these
delicacies with any freedom himself, but he did drink his tea when it was given to him although
it contained Framley cream;--and, had he known it, Bohea itself from the Framley chest. In
truth, in these days, he had given himself over to the dominion of this stranger; and he said
nothing beyond, "Well, well," with two uplifted hands, when he came upon her as she was sewing
the buttons on to his own shirts--sewing on the buttons and perhaps occasionally applying her
needle elsewhere,--not without utility. He said to her at this period very little in the way
of thanks. Some protracted conversations they did have, now and again, during the long evenings;
but even in these he did not utter many words as to their present state of life. It was on
religion chiefly that he spoke, not lecturing her individually, but laying down his ideas as
to what the life of a Christian should be, and especially what should be the life of a minister.
"But though I can see this, Miss Robarts," he said, "I am bound to say that no one has fallen
off so frequently as myself. I have renounced the devil and all his works; but it is by word
of mouth only--by word of mouth only. How shall a man crucify the old Adam that is within him,
unless he throw himself prostrate in the dust and acknowledge that all his strength is weaker
than water?" To this, often as it might be repeated, she would listen patiently, comforting
him by such words as her theology would supply; but then, when this was over, she would again
resume her command and enforce from him a close obedience to her domestic behests.

At the end of the month Lord Lufton came back to Framley Court. His arrival there was quite
unexpected; though, as he pointed out when his mother expressed some surprise, he had returned
exactly at the time named by him before he started.

"I need not say, Ludovic, how glad I am to have you," said she, looking to his face and pressing
his arm; "the more so, indeed, seeing that I hardly expected it."

He said nothing to his mother about Lucy the first evening, although there was some conversation
respecting the Robarts family.

"I am afraid Mr. Robarts has embarrassed himself," said Lady Lufton, looking very seriously.
"Rumours reach me which are most distressing. I have said nothing to anybody as yet--not even
to Fanny; but I can see in her face, and hear in the tones of her voice, that she is suffering
some great sorrow."

"I know all about it," said Lord Lufton.

"You know all about it, Ludovic?"

"Yes; it is through that precious friend of mine, Mr. Sowerby, of Chaldicotes. He has accepted
bills for Sowerby; indeed, he told me so."

"What business had he at Chaldicotes? What had he to do with such friends as that? I do not
know how I am to forgive him."

"It was through me that he became acquainted with Sowerby. You must remember that, mother."

"I do not see that that is any excuse. Is he to consider that all your acquaintances must necessarily
be his friends also? It is reasonable to suppose that you in your position must live occasionally
with a great many people who are altogether unfit companions for him as a parish clergyman.
He will not remember this, and he must be taught it. What business had he to go to Gatherum
Castle?"

"He got his stall at Barchester by going there."

"He would be much better without his stall, and Fanny has the sense to know this. What does
he want with two houses? Prebendal stalls are for older men than he--for men who have earned
them, and who at the end of their lives want some ease. I wish with all my heart that he had
never taken it."

"Six hundred a year has its charms all the same," said Lufton, getting up and strolling out
of the room.

"If Mark really be in any difficulty," he said, later in the evening, "we must put him on his
legs."

"You mean, pay his debts?"

"Yes; he has no debts except these acceptances of Sowerby's."

"How much will it be, Ludovic?"

"A thousand pounds, perhaps, more or less. I'll find the money, mother; only I shan't be able
to pay you quite as soon as I intended." Whereupon his mother got up, and throwing her arms
round his neck declared that she would never forgive him if he ever said a word more about
her little present to him. I suppose there is no pleasure a mother can have more attractive
than giving away her money to an only son.

Lucy's name was first mentioned at breakfast the next morning. Lord Lufton had made up his
mind to attack his mother on the subject early in the morning--before he went up to the parsonage;
but as matters turned out, Miss Robarts's doings were necessarily brought under discussion
without reference to Lord Lufton's special aspirations regarding her. The fact of Mrs. Crawley's
illness had been mentioned, and Lady Lufton had stated how it had come to pass that all the
Crawleys' children were at the parsonage.

"I must say that Fanny has behaved excellently," said Lady Lufton. "It was just what might
have been expected from her. And indeed," she added, speaking in an embarrassed tone, "so has
Miss Robarts. Miss Robarts has remained at Hogglestock and nursed Mrs. Crawley through the whole."

"Remained at Hogglestock--through the fever!" exclaimed his lordship.

"Yes, indeed," said Lady Lufton.

"And is she there now?"

"Oh, yes; I am not aware that she thinks of leaving just yet."

"Then I say that it is a great shame--a scandalous shame!"

"But, Ludovic, it was her own doing."

"Oh, yes; I understand. But why should she be sacrificed? Were there no nurses in the country
to be hired, but that she must go and remain there for a month at the bedside of a pestilent
fever? There is no justice in it."

"Justice, Ludovic? I don't know about justice, but there was great Christian charity. Mrs.
Crawley has probably owed her life to Miss Robarts."

"Has she been ill? Is she ill? I insist upon knowing whether she is ill. I shall go over to
Hogglestock myself immediately after breakfast." To this Lady Lufton made no reply. If Lord
Lufton chose to go to Hogglestock she could not prevent him. She thought, however, that it
would be much better that he should stay away. He would be quite as open to the infection as
Lucy Robarts and, moreover, Mrs. Crawley's bedside would be as inconvenient a place as might
be selected for any interview between two lovers. Lady Lufton felt at the present moment that
she was cruelly treated by circumstances with reference to Miss Robarts. Of course it would
have been her part to lessen, if she could do so without injustice, that high idea which her
son entertained of the beauty and worth of the young lady; but, unfortunately, she had been
compelled to praise her and to load her name with all manner of eulogy. Lady Lufton was essentially
a true woman, and not even with the object of carrying out her own views in so important a
matter would she be guilty of such deception as she might have practised by simply holding
her tongue; but nevertheless she could hardly reconcile herself to the necessity of singing
Lucy's praises.

After breakfast Lady Lufton got up from her chair, but hung about the room without making any
show of leaving. In accordance with her usual custom she would have asked her son what he was
going to do; but she did not dare so to inquire now. Had he not declared, only a few minutes
since, whither he would go? "I suppose I shall see you at lunch?" at last she said.

"At lunch? Well, I don't know. Look here, mother. What am I to say to Miss Robarts when I see
her?" and he leaned with his back against the chimney-piece as he interrogated his mother.

"What are you to say to her, Ludovic?"

"Yes, what am I to say,--as coming from you? Am I to tell her that you will receive her as
your daughter-in-law?"

"Ludovic, I have explained all that to Miss Robarts herself."

"Explained what?"

"I have told her that I did not think that such a marriage would make either you or her happy."

"And why have you told her so? Why have you taken upon yourself to judge for me in such a matter,
as though I were a child? Mother, you must unsay what you have said." Lord Lufton, as he spoke,
looked full into his mother's face; and he did so, not as though he were begging from her a
favour, but issuing to her a command. She stood near him, with one hand on the breakfast-table,
gazing at him almost furtively, not quite daring to meet the full view of his eye. There was
only one thing on earth which Lady Lufton feared, and that was her son's displeasure. The sun
of her earthly heaven shone upon her through the medium of his existence. If she were driven
to quarrel with him, as some ladies of her acquaintance were driven to quarrel with their sons,
the world to her would be over. Not but what facts might be so strong as to make it absolutely
necessary that she should do this. As some people resolve that, under certain circumstances,
they will commit suicide, so she could see that, under certain circumstances, she must consent
even to be separated from him. She would not do wrong,--not that which she knew to be wrong,--even
for his sake. If it were necessary that all her happiness should collapse and be crushed in
ruin around her, she must endure it, and wait God's time to relieve her from so dark a world.
The light of the sun was very dear to her, but even that might be purchased at too dear a cost.

"I told you before, mother, that my choice was made, and I asked you then to give your consent;
you have now had time to think about it, and therefore I have come to ask you again. I have
reason to know that there will be no impediment to my marriage if you will frankly hold out
your hand to Lucy."

The matter was altogether in Lady Lufton's hands, but, fond as she was of power, she absolutely
wished that it were not so. Had her son married without asking her, and then brought Lucy home
as his wife, she would undoubtedly have forgiven him; and much as she might have disliked the
match, she would, ultimately, have embraced the bride. But now she was compelled to exercise
her judgement. If he married imprudently, it would be her doing. How was she to give her expressed
consent to that which she believed to be wrong? "Do you know anything against her; any reason
why she should not be my wife?" continued he.

"If you mean as regards her moral conduct, certainly not," said Lady Lufton. "But I could say
as much as that in favour of a great many young ladies whom I should regard as very ill suited
for such a marriage."

"Yes; some might be vulgar, some might be ill-tempered, some might be ugly; others might be
burdened with disagreeable connexions. I can understand that you should object to a daughter-in-law
under any of these circumstances. But none of these things can be said of Miss Robarts. I defy
you to say that she is not in all respects what a lady should be."

But her father was a doctor of medicine, she is the sister of the parish clergyman, she is
only five feet two in height, and is so uncommonly brown! Had Lady Lufton dared to give a catalogue
of her objections, such would have been its extent and nature. But she did not dare to do this.

"I cannot say, Ludovic, that she is possessed of all that you should seek in a wife." Such
was her answer.

"Do you mean that she has not got money?"

"No, not that; I should be very sorry to see you making money your chief object, or indeed
any essential object. If it chanced that your wife did have money, no doubt you would find
it a convenience. But pray understand me, Ludovic; I would not for a moment advise you to subject
your happiness to such a necessity as that. It is not because she is without fortune--"

"Then why is it? At breakfast you were singing her praises, and saying how excellent she is."

"If I were forced to put my objection into one word, I should say--" and then she paused, hardly
daring to encounter the frown which was already gathering itself on her son's brow.

"You would say what?" said Lord Lufton, almost roughly.

"Don't be angry with me, Ludovic; all that I think, and all that I say on this subject, I think
and say with only one object--that of your happiness. What other motive can I have for anything
in this world?" And then she came close to him and kissed him.

"But tell me, mother, what is this objection; what is this terrible word that is to sum up
the list of all poor Lucy's sins, and prove that she is unfit for married life?"

"Ludovic, I did not say that. You know that I did not."

"What is the word, mother?"

And then at last Lady Lufton spoke it out. "She is--insignificant. I believe her to be a very
good girl, but she is not qualified to fill the high position to which you would exalt her."

"Insignificant!"

"Yes, Ludovic, I think so."

"Then, mother, you do not know her. You must permit me to say that you are talking of a girl
whom you do not know. Of all the epithets of opprobrium which the English language could give
you, that would be nearly the last which she would deserve."

"I have not intended any opprobrium."

"Insignificant!"

"Perhaps you do not quite understand me, Ludovic."

"I know what insignificant means, mother."

"I think that she would not worthily fill the position which your wife should take in the world."

"I understand what you say."

"She would not do you honour at the head of your table."

"Ah, I understand. You want me to marry some bouncing Amazon, some pink and white giantess
of fashion who would frighten the little people into their proprieties."

"Oh, Ludovic! you are intending to laugh at me now."

"I was never less inclined to laugh in my life--never, I can assure you. And now I am more
certain than ever that your objection to Miss Robarts arises from your not knowing her. You
will find, I think, when you do know her, that she is as well able to hold her own as any lady
of your acquaintance--aye, and to maintain her husband's position, too. I can assure you that
I shall have no fear of her on that score."

"I think, dearest, that perhaps you hardly--"

"I think this, mother, that in such a matter as this I must choose for myself. I have chosen;
and I now ask you, as my mother, to go to her and bid her welcome. Dear mother, I will own
this, that I should not be happy if I thought that you did not love my wife." These last words
he said in a tone of affection that went to his mother's heart, and then he left the room.

Poor Lady Lufton, when she was alone, waited till she heard her son's steps retreating through
the hall, and then betook herself upstairs to her customary morning work. She sat down at last
as though about so to occupy herself; but her mind was too full to allow of her taking up her
pen. She had often said to herself, in days which to her were not as yet long gone by, that
she would choose a bride for her son, and that then she would love the chosen one with all
her heart. She would dethrone herself in favour of this new queen, sinking with joy into her
dowager state, in order that her son's wife might shine with the greater splendour. The fondest
day-dreams of her life had all had reference to the time when her son should bring home a new
Lady Lufton, selected by herself from the female excellence of England, and in which she might
be the first to worship her new idol. But could she dethrone herself for Lucy Robarts? Could
she give up her chair of state in order to place thereon the little girl from the parsonage?
Could she take to her heart, and treat with absolute loving confidence, with the confidence
of an almost idolatrous mother, that little chit who, a few months since, had sat awkwardly
in one corner of her drawing-room, afraid to speak to any one? And yet it seemed that it must
come to this--to this--or else those day-dreams of hers would in nowise come to pass. She sat
herself down, trying to think whether it were possible that Lucy might fill the throne; for
she had begun to recognize it as probable that her son's will would be too strong for her;
but her thoughts would fly away to Griselda Grantly. In her first and only matured attempt
to realize her day-dreams, she had chosen Griselda for her queen. She had failed there, seeing
that the Fates had destined Miss Grantly for another throne; for another and a higher one,
as far as the world goes. She would have made Griselda the wife of a baron, but fate was about
to make that young lady the wife of a marquis. Was there cause of grief in this? Did she really
regret that Miss Grantly, with all her virtues, should be made over to the house of Hartletop?
Lady Lufton was a woman who did not bear disappointment lightly; but nevertheless she did almost
feel herself to have been relieved from a burden when she thought of the termination of the
Lufton-Grantly marriage treaty. What if she had been successful, and, after all, the prize
had been other than she had expected? She was sometimes prone to think that that prize was
not exactly all that she had once hoped. Griselda looked the very thing that Lady Lufton wanted
for a queen; but how would a queen reign who trusted only to her looks? In that respect it
was perhaps well for her that destiny had interposed. Griselda, she was driven to admit, was
better suited to Lord Dumbello than to her son. But still--such a queen as Lucy! Could it ever
come to pass that the lieges of the kingdom would bow the knee in proper respect before so
puny a sovereign? And then there was that feeling which, in still higher quarters, prevents
the marriage of princes with the most noble of their people. Is it not a recognized rule of
these realms that none of the blood royal shall raise to royal honours those of the subjects
who are by birth un-royal? Lucy was a subject of the house of Lufton in that she was the sister
of the parson and a resident denizen of the parsonage. Presuming that Lucy herself might do
for queen--granting that she might have some faculty to reign, the crown having been duly placed
on her brow--how, then, about that clerical brother near the throne? Would it not come to this,
that there would no longer be a queen at Framley? And yet she knew that she must yield. She
did not say so to herself. She did not as yet acknowledge that she must put out her hand to
Lucy, calling her by name as her daughter. She did not absolutely say as much to her own heart--not
as yet. But she did begin to bethink herself of Lucy's high qualities, and to declare to herself
that the girl, if not fit to be a queen, was at any rate fit to be a woman. That there was
a spirit within that body, insignificant though the body might be, Lady Lufton was prepared
to admit. That she had acquired the power--the chief of all powers in this world--of sacrificing
herself for the sake of others; that, too, was evident enough. That she was a good girl, in
the usual acceptation of the word good, Lady Lufton had never doubted. She was ready-witted,
too, prompt in action, gifted with a certain fire. It was that gift of fire which had won for
her, so unfortunately, Lord Lufton's love. It was quite possible for her also to love Lucy
Robarts; Lady Lufton admitted that to herself; but then who could bow the knee before her,
and serve her as a queen? Was it not a pity that she should be so insignificant?

But, nevertheless, we may say that as Lady Lufton sate that morning in her own room for two
hours without employment, the star of Lucy Robarts was gradually rising in the firmament. After
all, love was the food chiefly necessary for the nourishment of Lady Lufton--the only food
absolutely necessary. She was not aware of this herself, nor probably would those who knew
her best have so spoken of her. They would have declared that family pride was her daily pabulum,
and she herself would have said so too, calling it, however, by some less offensive name. Her
son's honour, and the honour of her house!--of those she would have spoken as the things dearest
to her in this world. And this was partly true, for had her son been dishonoured, she would
have sunk with sorrow to the grave. But the one thing necessary to her daily life was the power
of loving those who were near to her. Lord Lufton, when he left the dining-room, intended at
once to go up to the parsonage, but he first strolled round the garden in order that he might
make up his mind what he would say there. He was angry with his mother, having not had the
wit to see that she was about to give way and yield to him, and he was determined to make it
understood that in this matter he would have his own way. He had learned that which it was
necessary that he should know as to Lucy's heart, and such being the case he would not conceive
it possible that he should be debarred by his mother's opposition. "There is no son in England
loves his mother better than I do," he said to himself; "but there are some things which a
man cannot stand. She would have married me to that block of stone if I would have let her;
and now, because she is disappointed there-- Insignificant! I never in my life heard anything
so absurd, so untrue, so uncharitable, so-- She'd like me to bring a dragon home, I suppose.
It would serve her right if I did--some creature that would make the house intolerable to her."
"She must do it though," he said again, "or she and I will quarrel," and then he turned off
towards the gate, preparing to go to the parsonage.

"My lord, have you heard what has happened? said the gardener, coming to him at the gate. The
man was out of breath and almost overwhelmed by the greatness of his own tidings.

"No; I have heard nothing. What is it?"

"The bailiffs have taken possession of everything at the parsonage."

CHAPTER XLIV

The Philistines at the Parsonage

It has been already told how things went on between the Tozers, Mr. Curling, and Mark Robarts
during that month. Mr. Forrest had drifted out of the business altogether, as also had Mr.
Sowerby, as far as any active participation in it went. Letters came frequently from Mr. Curling
to the parsonage, and at last came a message by special mission to say that the evil day was
at hand. As far as Mr. Curling's professional experience would enable him to anticipate or
foretell the proceedings of such a man as Tom Tozer, he thought that the sheriff's officers
would be at Framley parsonage on the following morning. Mr. Curling's experience did not mislead
him in this respect. "And what will you do, Mark?" said Fanny, speaking through her tears,
after she had read the letter which her husband handed to her.

"Nothing. What can I do? They must come."

"Lord Lufton came to-day. Will you not go to him?"

"No. If I were to do so it would be the same as asking him for the money."

"Why not borrow it of him, dearest? Surely it would not be so much for him to lend."

"I could not do it. Think of Lucy, and how she stands with him. Besides, I have already had
words with Lufton about Sowerby and his money matters. He thinks that I am to blame, and he
would tell me so; and then there would be sharp things said between us. He would advance me
the money if I pressed for it, but he would do so in a way that would make it impossible that
I should take it."

There was nothing more, then, to be said. If she had had her own way Mrs. Robarts would have
gone at once to Lady Lufton, but she could not induce her husband to sanction such a proceeding.
The objection to seeking assistance from her ladyship was as strong as that which prevailed
as to her son. There had already been some little beginning of ill-feeling, and under such
circumstances it was impossible to ask for pecuniary assistance. Fanny, however, had a prophetic
assurance that assistance out of these difficulties must in the end come to them from that
quarter, or not come at all; and she would fain, had she been allowed, make everything known
at the big house. On the following morning they breakfasted at the usual hour, but in great
sadness. A maid-servant, whom Mrs. Robarts had brought with her when she married, told her
that a rumour of what was to happen had reached the kitchen. Stubbs, the groom, had been in
Barchester on the preceding day, and, according to his account--so said Mary--everybody in
the city was talking about it. "Never mind, Mary," said Mrs. Robarts, and Mary replied, "Oh,
no, of course not, ma'am." In these days Mrs. Robarts was ordinarily very busy, seeing that
there were six children in the house, four of whom had come to her but ill supplied with infantine
belongings; and now, as usual, she went about her work immediately after breakfast. But she
moved about the house very slowly, and was almost unable to give her orders to the servants,
and spoke sadly to the children who hung about her wondering what was the matter. Her husband
at the same time took himself to his book-room, but when there did not attempt any employment.
He thrust his hands into his pockets, and, leaning against the fire-place, fixed his eyes upon
the table before him without looking at anything that was on it; it was impossible for him
to betake himself to his work. Remember what is the ordinary labour of a clergyman in his study,
and think how fit he must have been for such employment! What would have been the nature of
a sermon composed at such a moment, and with what satisfaction could he have used the sacred
volume in referring to it for his arguments? He, in this respect, was worse off than his wife;
she did employ herself, but he stood there without moving, doing nothing, with fixed eyes,
thinking what men would say of him. Luckily for him this state of suspense was not long, for
within half an hour of his leaving the breakfast-table, the footman knocked at his door--that
footman with whom, at the beginning of his difficulties, he had made up his mind to dispense,
but who had been kept on because of the Barchester prebend.

"If you please, your reverence, there are two men outside," said the footman. Two men! Mark
knew well enough what men they were, but he could hardly take the coming of two such men to
his quiet country parsonage quite as a matter of course.

"Who are they, John?" said he, not wishing any answer, but because the question was forced
upon him.

"I'm afeard they're--bailiffs, sir."

"Very well, John; that will do; of course they must do what they please about the place." And
then, when the servant left him, he still stood without moving, exactly as he had stood before.
There he remained for ten minutes, but the time went by very slowly. When about noon some circumstance
told him what was the hour, he was astonished to find that the day had not nearly passed away.
And then another tap was struck on the door--a sound which he well recognized--and his wife
crept silently into the room. She came close up to him before she spoke, and put her arm within
his:

"Mark," she said, "the men are here; they are in the yard."

"I know it," he answered gruffly.

"Will it be better that you should see them, dearest?"

"See them; no; what good can I do by seeing them? But I shall see them soon enough; they will
be here, I suppose, in a few minutes."

"They are taking an inventory, cook says; they are in the stable now."

"Very well; they must do as they please; I cannot help them."

"Cook says that if they are allowed their meals and some beer, and if nobody takes anything
away, they will be quite civil."

"Civil! But what does it matter! Let them eat and drink what they please, as long as the food
lasts. I don't suppose the butcher will send you more."

"But, Mark, there's nothing due to the butcher,--only the regular monthly bill."

"Very well; you'll see."

"Oh, Mark, don't look at me in that way. Do not turn away from me. What is to comfort us if
we do not cling to each other now?"

"Comfort us! God help you! I wonder, Fanny, that you can bear to stay in the room with me."

"Mark, dearest Mark, my own dear, dearest husband! who is to be true to you, if I am not? You
shall not turn from me. How can anything like this make a difference between you and me?" And
then she threw her arms round his neck and embraced him. It was a terrible morning to him,
and one of which every incident will dwell on his memory to the last day of his life. He had
been so proud in his position--had assumed to himself so prominent a standing--had contrived,
by some trick which he had acquired, to carry his head so high above the heads of neighbouring
parsons. It was this that had taken him among great people, had introduced him to the Duke
of Omnium, had procured for him the stall at Barchester. But how was he to carry his head now?
What would the Arabins and Grantlys say? How would the bishop sneer at him, and Mrs. Proudie
and her daughters tell of him in all their quarters? How would Crawley look at him--Crawley,
who had already once had him on the hip? The stern severity of Crawley's face loomed upon him
now. Crawley, with his children half naked, and his wife a drudge, and himself half starved,
had never had a bailiff in his house at Hogglestock. And then his own curate, Evans, whom he
had patronized, and treated almost as a dependant--how was he to look his curate in the face
and arrange with him for the sacred duties of the next Sunday? His wife still stood by him,
gazing into his face; and as he looked at her and thought of her misery, he could not control
his heart with reference to the wrongs which Sowerby had heaped on him. It was Sowerby's falsehood
and Sowerby's fraud which had brought upon him and his wife this terrible anguish.

"If there be justice on earth he will suffer for it yet," he said at last, not speaking intentionally
to his wife, but unable to repress his feelings.

"Do not wish him evil, Mark; you may be sure he has his own sorrows."

"His own sorrows! No; he is callous to such misery as this. He has become so hardened in dishonesty
that all this is mirth to him. If there be punishment in heaven for falsehood--"

"Oh, Mark, do not curse him!"

"How am I to keep myself from cursing when I see what he has brought upon you?"

"'Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord,'" answered the young wife, not with solemn, preaching
accent, as though bent on reproof, but with the softest whisper into his ear. "Leave that to
Him, Mark; and for us, let us pray that He may soften the hearts of us all;--of him who has
caused us to suffer, and of our own." Mark was not called upon to reply to this, for he was
again disturbed by a servant at the door. It was the cook this time herself, who had come with
a message from the men of the law. And she had come, be it remembered, not from any necessity
that she as cook should do this line of work; for the footman, or Mrs. Robarts's maid, might
have come as well as she. But when things are out of course servants are always out of course
also. As a rule, nothing will induce a butler to go into a stable, or persuade a house-maid
to put her hand to a frying-pan. But now that this new excitement had come upon the household--seeing
that the bailiffs were in possession, and that the chattels were being entered in a catalogue,
everybody was willing to do everything--everything but his or her own work. The gardener was
looking after the dear children; the nurse was doing the rooms before the bailiffs should reach
them; the groom had gone into the kitchen to get their lunch ready for them; and the cook was
walking about with an inkstand, obeying all the orders of these great potentates. As far as
the servants were concerned, it may be a question whether the coming of the bailiffs had not
hitherto been regarded as a treat.

"If you please, ma'am," said Jemima cook, "they wishes to know in which room you'd be pleased
to have the inmin-tory took fust. 'Cause, ma'am, they wouldn't disturb you nor master more
than can be avoided. For their line of life, ma'am, they is very civil--very civil indeed."

"I suppose they may go into the drawing-room," said Mrs. Robarts, in a sad low voice. All nice
women are proud of their drawing-rooms, and she was very proud of hers. It had been furnished
when money was plenty with them, immediately after their marriage, and everything in it was
pretty, good, and dear to her. O ladies, who have drawing-rooms in which the things are pretty,
good, and dear to you, think of what it would be to have two bailiffs rummaging among them
with pen and ink-horn, making a catalogue preparatory to a sheriff's auction; and all without
fault or extravagance of your own! There were things there that had been given to her by Lady
Lufton, by Lady Meredith, and other friends, and the idea did occur to her that it might be
possible to save them from contamination; but she would not say a word, lest by so saying she
might add to Mark's misery.

"And then the dining-room," said Jemima cook, in a tone almost of elation.

"Yes; if they please."

"And then master's book-room here; or perhaps the bedrooms, if you and master be still here."

"Any way they please, cook; it does not much signify," said Mrs. Robarts. But for some days
after that Jemima was by no means a favourite with her.

The cook was hardly out of the room before a quick footstep was heard on the gravel before
the window, and the hall door was immediately opened.

"Where is your master?" said the well-known voice of Lord Lufton; and then in half a minute
he also was in the book-room.

"Mark, my dear fellow, what's all this?" said he, in a cheery tone and with a pleasant face.
"Did not you know that I was here? I came down yesterday; landed from Hamburg only yesterday
morning. How do you do, Mrs. Robarts? This is a terrible bore, isn't it?" Robarts, at the first
moment, hardly knew how to speak to his old friend. He was struck dumb by the disgrace of his
position; the more so as his misfortune was one which it was partly in the power of Lord Lufton
to remedy. He had never yet borrowed money since he had filled a man's position, but he had
had words about money with the young peer, in which he knew that his friend had wronged him;
and for this double reason he was now speechless.

"Mr. Sowerby has betrayed him," said Mrs. Robarts, wiping the tears from her eyes. Hitherto
she had said no word against Sowerby, but now it was necessary to defend her husband.

"No doubt about it. I believe he has always betrayed every one who has ever trusted him. I
told you what he was, some time since; did I not? But, Mark, why on earth have you let it go
so far as this? Would not Forrest help you?"

"Mr. Forrest wanted him to sign more bills, and he would not do that," said Mrs. Robarts, sobbing.

"Bills are like dram-drinking," said the discreet young lord: "when one once begins, it is
very hard to leave off. Is it true that the men are here now, Mark?"

"Yes, they are in the next room."

"What, in the drawing-room?"

"They are making out a list of the things," said Mrs Robarts.

"We must stop that at any rate," said his lordship, walking off towards the scene of the operations;
and as he left the room Mrs. Robarts followed him, leaving her husband by himself.

"Why did you not send down to my mother?" said he, speaking hardly above a whisper, as they
stood together in the hall.

"He would not let me."

"But why not go yourself? or why not have written to me,--considering how intimate we are!"
Mrs. Robarts could not explain to him that the peculiar intimacy between him and Lucy must
have hindered her from doing so, even if otherwise it might have been possible; but she felt
such was the case.

"Well, my men, this is bad work you're doing here," said he, walking into the drawing-room.
Whereupon the cook curtsied low, and the bailiffs, knowing his lordship, stopped from their
business and put their hands to their foreheads. "You must stop this, if you please,--at once.
Come, let's go out into the kitchen, or some place outside. I don't like to see you here with
your big boots and the pen and ink among the furniture."

"We ain't a-done no harm, my lord, so please your lordship," said Jemima cook.

"And we is only a-doing our bounden dooties," said one of the bailiffs.

"As we is sworn to do, so please your lordship," said the other.

"And is wery sorry to be unconwenient, my lord, to any gen'leman or lady as is a gen'leman
or lady. But accidents will happen, and then what can the likes of us do?" said the first.

"Because we is sworn, my lord," said the second. But, nevertheless, in spite of their oaths,
and in spite also of the stern necessity which they pleaded, they ceased their operations at
the instance of the peer. For the name of a lord is still great in England.

"And now leave this, and let Mrs. Robarts go into her drawing-room."

"And, please your lordship, what is we to do? Who is we to look to?" In satisfying them absolutely
on this point Lord Lufton had to use more than his influence as a peer. It was necessary that
he should have pen and paper. But with pen and paper he did satisfy them;--satisfy them so
far that they agreed to return to Stubbs's room, the former hospital, due stipulation having
been made for the meals and beer, and there await the order to evacuate the premises which
would no doubt, under his lordship's influence, reach them on the following day. The meaning
of all which was that Lord Lufton had undertaken to bear upon his own shoulder the whole debt
due by Mr. Robarts. And then he returned to the book-room where Mark was still standing almost
on the spot in which he had placed himself immediately after breakfast. Mrs. Robarts did not
return, but went up among the children to counter-order such directions as she had given for
the preparation of the nursery for the Philistines. "Mark," he said, "do not trouble yourself
about this more than you can help. The men have ceased doing anything, and they shall leave
the place to-morrow morning."

"And how will the money--be paid?" said the poor clergyman.

"Do not bother yourself about that at present. It shall so be managed that the burden shall
fall ultimately on yourself--not on any one else. But I am sure it must be a comfort to you
to know that your wife need not be driven out of her drawing-room."

"But, Lufton, I cannot allow you--after what has passed--and at the present moment--"

"My dear fellow, I know all about it, and I am coming to that just now. You have employed Curling,
and he shall settle it; and upon my word, Mark, you shall pay the bill. But, for the present
emergency, the money is at my banker's."

"But, Lufton--"

"And to deal honestly, about Curling's bill I mean, it ought to be as much my affair as your
own. It was I that brought you into this mess with Sowerby, and I know now how unjust about
it I was to you up in London. But the truth is that Sowerby's treachery had nearly driven me
wild. It has done the same to you since, I have no doubt."

"He has ruined me," said Robarts.

"No, he has not done that. No thanks to him though; he would not have scrupled to do it had
it come in his way. The fact is, Mark, that you and I cannot conceive the depth of fraud in
such a man as that. He is always looking for money; I believe that in all his hours of most
friendly intercourse,--when he is sitting with you over your wine, and riding beside you in
the field,--he is still thinking how he can make use of you to tide him over some difficulty.
He has lived in that way till he has a pleasure in cheating, and has become so clever in his
line of life that if you or I were with him again to-morrow he would again get the better of
us. He is a man that must be absolutely avoided; I, at any rate, have learned to know so much."
In the expression of which opinion Lord Lufton was too hard upon poor Sowerby; as indeed we
are all apt to be too hard in forming an opinion upon the rogues of the world. That Mr. Sowerby
had been a rogue, I cannot deny. It is roguish to lie, and he had been a great liar. It is
roguish to make promises which the promiser knows he cannot perform, and such had been Mr.
Sowerby's daily practice. It is roguish to live on other men's money, and Mr. Sowerby had long
been doing so. It is roguish, at least so I would hold it, to deal willingly with rogues; and
Mr. Sowerby had been constant in such dealings. I do not know whether he had not at times fallen
even into more palpable roguery than is proved by such practices as those enumerated. Though
I have for him some tender feeling, knowing that there was still a touch of gentle bearing
round his heart, an abiding taste for better things within him, I cannot acquit him from the
great accusation. But, for all that, in spite of his acknowledged roguery, Lord Lufton was
too hard upon him in his judgement. There was yet within him the means of repentance, could
a locus penitentiæ have been supplied to him. He grieved bitterly over his own ill-doings,
and knew well what changes gentlehood would have demanded from him. Whether or no he had gone
too far for all changes--whether the locus penitentiæ was for him still a possibility--that
was between him and a higher power.

"I have no one to blame but myself," said Mark, still speaking in the same heart-broken tone
and with his face averted from his friend.

The debt would now be paid, and the bailiffs would be expelled; but that would not set him
right before the world. It would be known to all men--to all clergymen in the diocese, that
the sheriff's officers had been in charge of Framley parsonage, and he could never again hold
up his head in the close of Barchester. "My dear fellow, if we were all to make ourselves miserable
for such a trifle as this,--" said Lord Lufton, putting his arm affectionately on his friend's
shoulder.

"But we are not all clergymen," said Mark, and as he spoke he turned away to the window and
Lord Lufton know that the tears were on his cheek.

Nothing was then said between them for some moments, after which Lord Lufton again spoke,--

"Mark, my dear fellow!"

"Well," said Mark, with his face still turned towards the window.

"You must remember one thing; in helping you over this stile, which will be really a matter
of no inconvenience to me, I have a better right than that even of an old friend; I look upon
you now as my brother-in-law." Mark turned slowly round, plainly showing the tears upon his face.

"Do you mean," said he, "that anything more has taken place?"

"I mean to make your sister my wife; she sent me word by you to say that she loved me, and
I am not going to stand upon any nonsense after that, If she and I are both willing no one
alive has a right to stand between us, and, by heavens, no one shall. I will do nothing secretly,
so I tell you that, exactly as I have told her ladyship."

"But what does she say?

"She says nothing; but it cannot go on like that. My mother and I cannot live here together
if she opposes me in this way. I do not want to frighten your sister by going over to her at
Hogglestock, but I expect you to tell her so much as I now tell you, as coming from me; otherwise
she will think that I have forgotten her."

"She will not think that."

"She need not; good-bye, old fellow. I'll make it all right between you and her ladyship about
this affair of Sowerby's." And then he took his leave and walked off to settle about the payment
of the money.

"Mother," said he to Lady Lufton that evening, "you must not bring this affair of the bailiffs
up against Robarts. It has been more my fault than his."

Hitherto not a word had been spoken between Lady Lufton and her son on the subject. She had
heard with terrible dismay of what had happened, and had heard also that Lord Lufton had immediately
gone to the parsonage. It was impossible, therefore, that she should now interfere. That the
necessary money would be forthcoming she was aware, but that would not wipe out the terrible
disgrace attached to an execution in a clergyman's house. And then, too, he was her clergyman,--her
own clergyman, selected and appointed, and brought to Framley by herself, endowed with a wife
of her own choosing, filled with good things by her own hand! It was a terrible misadventure,
and she began to repent that she had ever heard the name of Robarts. She would not, however,
have been slow to put forth the hand to lessen the evil by giving her own money, had this been
either necessary or possible. But how could she interfere between Robarts and her son, especially
when she remembered the proposed connexion between Lucy and Lord Lufton?

"Your fault, Ludovic?"

"Yes, mother. It was I who introduced him to Mr. Sowerby; and, to tell the truth, I do not
think he would ever have been intimate with Sowerby if I had not given him some sort of a commission
with reference to money matters then pending between Mr. Sowerby and me. They are all over
now,--thanks to you, indeed."

"Mr. Robarts's character as a clergyman should have kept him from such troubles, if no other
feeling did so."

"At any rate, mother, oblige me by letting it pass by."

"Oh, I shall say nothing to him."

"You had better say something to her, or otherwise it will be strange; and even to him I would
say a word or two,--a word in kindness, as you so well know how. It will be easier to him in
that way, than if you were to be altogether silent."

No further conversation took place between them at the time, but later in the evening she brushed
her hand across her son's forehead, sweeping the long silken hairs into their place, as she
was wont to do when moved by any special feeling of love. "Ludovic," she said, "no one, I think,
has so good a heart as you. I will do exactly as you would have me about this affair of Mr.
Robarts and the money." And then there was nothing more said about it.

CHAPTER XLV

Palace Blessings

And now, at this period, terrible rumours found their way into Barchester, and flew about the
cathedral towers and round the cathedral door; aye, and into the canons' houses and the humbler
sitting-rooms of the vicars choral. Whether they made their way from thence up to the bishop's
palace, or whether they descended from the palace to the close, I will not pretend to say.
But they were shocking, unnatural, and no doubt grievous to all those excellent ecclesiastical
hearts which cluster so thickly in those quarters. The first of these had reference to the
new prebendary, and to the disgrace which he had brought on the chapter; a disgrace, as some
of them boasted, which Barchester had never known before. This, however, like most other boasts,
was hardly true; for within but a very few years there had been an execution in the house of
a late prebendary, old Dr. Stanhope; and on that occasion the doctor himself had been forced
to fly away to Italy, starting in the night, lest he also should fall into the hands of the
Philistines, as well as his chairs and tables. "It is a scandalous shame," said Mrs. Proudie,
speaking not of the old doctor, but of the new offender; "a scandalous shame: and it would
only serve him right if the gown were stripped from his back."

"I suppose his living will be sequestrated," said a young minor canon who attended much to
the ecclesiastical injunctions of the lady of the diocese, and was deservedly held in high
favour. If Framley were sequestrated, why should not he, as well as another, undertake the
duty--with such stipend as the bishop might award?

"I am told that he is over head and ears in debt," said the future Mrs. Tickler, "and chiefly
for horses which he has bought and not paid for."

"I see him riding very splendid animals when he comes over for the cathedral duties," said
the minor canon.

"The sheriff's officers are in the house at present, I am told," said Mrs. Proudie.

"And is not he in jail?" said Mrs. Tickler.

"If not, he ought to be," said Mrs. Tickler's mother.

"And no doubt soon will be," said the minor canon; "for I hear that he is linked up with a
most discreditable gang of persons."

This was what was said in the palace on that heading; and though, no doubt, more spirit and
poetry was displayed there than in the houses of the less gifted clergy, this shows the manner
in which the misfortune of Mr. Robarts was generally discussed. Nor, indeed, had he deserved
any better treatment at their hands. But his name did not run the gauntlet for the usual nine
days; nor, indeed, did his fame endure at its height for more than two. This sudden fall was
occasioned by other tidings of a still more distressing nature; by a rumour which so affected
Mrs. Proudie that it caused, as she said, her blood to creep. And she was very careful that
the blood of others should creep also, if the blood of others was equally sensitive. It was
said that Lord Dumbello had jilted Miss Grantly. From what adverse spot in the world these
cruel tidings fell upon Barchester I have never been able to discover. We know how quickly
rumour flies, making herself common through all the cities. That Mrs. Proudie should have known
more of the facts connected with the Hartletop family than any one else in Barchester was not
surprising, seeing that she was so much more conversant with the great world in which such
people lived. She knew, and was therefore correct enough in declaring, that Lord Dumbello had
already jilted one other young lady--the Lady Julia Mac Mull, to whom he had been engaged three
seasons back, and that therefore his character in such matters was not to be trusted. That
Lady Julia had been a terrible flirt and greatly given to waltzing with a certain German count,
with whom she had since gone off--that, I suppose, Mrs. Proudie did not know, much as she was
conversant with the great world,--seeing that she said nothing about it to any of her ecclesiastical
listeners on the present occasion.

"It will be a terrible warning, Mrs. Quiverful, to us all; a most useful warning to us--not
to trust to the things of this world. I fear they made no inquiry about this young nobleman
before they agreed that his name should be linked with that of their daughter." This she said
to the wife of the present warden of Hiram's Hospital, a lady who had received favours from
her, and was therefore bound to listen attentively to her voice.

"But I hope it may not be true," said Mrs. Quiverful, who, in spite of the allegiance due by
her to Mrs. Proudie, had reasons of her own for wishing well to the Grantly family.

"I hope so, indeed," said Mrs. Proudie, with a slight tinge of anger in her voice; "but I fear
that there is no doubt. And I must confess that it is no more than we had a right to expect.
I hope that it may be taken by all of us as a lesson, and an example, and a teaching of the
Lord's mercy. And I wish you would request your husband--from me, Mrs. Quiverful--to dwell
on this subject in morning and evening lecture at the hospital on Sabbath next, showing how
false is the trust which we put in the good things of this world;" which behest, to a certain
extent, Mr. Quiverful did obey, feeling that a quiet life in Barchester was of great value
to him; but he did not go so far as to caution his hearers, who consisted of the aged bedesmen
of the hospital, against matrimonial projects of an ambitious nature. In this case, as in all
others of the kind, the report was known to all the chapter before it had been heard by the
archdeacon or his wife. The dean heard it, and disregarded it; as did also the dean's wife--at
first; and those who generally sided with the Grantlys in the diocesan battles pooh-poohed
the tidings, saying to each other that both the archdeacon and Mrs. Grantly were very well
able to take care of their own affairs. But dripping water hollows a stone; and at last it
was admitted on all sides that there was ground for fear,--on all sides, except at Plumstead.

"I am sure there is nothing in it; I really am sure of it," said Mrs. Arabin, whispering to
her sister; "but after turning it over in my mind, I thought it right to tell you. And yet
I don't know now but I am wrong."

"Quite right, dearest Eleanor," said Mrs. Grantly. "And I am much obliged to you. But we understand
it, you know. It comes, of course, like all other Christian blessings, from the palace." And
then there was nothing more said about it between Mrs. Grantly and her sister. But on the following
morning there arrived a letter by post, addressed to Mrs. Grantly, bearing the postmark of
Littlebath. The letter ran:--

   MADAM,--

   It is known to the writer that Lord Dumbello has arranged
   with certain friends how he may escape from his present
   engagement. I think, therefore, that it is my duty as a
   Christian to warn you of this.

   Yours truly,

   A WELLWISHER.

Now it had happened that the embryo Mrs. Tickler's most intimate bosom friend and confidante
was known at Plumstead to live at Littlebath, and it had also happened--most unfortunately--that
the embryo Mrs. Tickler, in the warmth of her neighbourly regard, had written a friendly line
to her friend Griselda Grantly, congratulating her with all female sincerity on her splendid
nuptials with the Lord Dumbello.

"It is not her natural hand," said Mrs. Grantly, talking the matter over with her husband,
"but you may be sure it has come from her. It is a part of the new Christianity which we learn
day by day from the palace teaching." But these things had some effect on the archdeacon's
mind. He had learned lately the story of Lady Julia Mac Mull, and was not sure that his son-in-law--as
ought to be about to be--had been entirely blameless in that matter. And then in these days
Lord Dumbello made no great sign. Immediately on Griselda's return to Plumstead he had sent
her a magnificent present of emeralds, which, however, had come to her direct from the jewellers,
and might have been--and probably was--ordered by his man of business. Since that he had neither
come, nor sent, nor written. Griselda did not seem to be in any way annoyed by this absence
of the usual sign of love, and went on steadily with her great duties. "Nothing," as she told
her mother, "had been said about writing, and, therefore, she did not expect it." But the archdeacon
was not quite at his ease. "Keep Dumbello up to his p's and q's, you know," a friend of his
had whispered to him at his club. By heavens, yes. The archdeacon was not a man to bear with
indifference a wrong in such a quarter. In spite of his clerical profession, few men were more
inclined to fight against personal wrongs--and few men more able.

"Can there be anything wrong, I wonder?" said he to his wife. "Is it worth while that I should
go up to London?" But Mrs. Grantly attributed it all to the palace doctrine. What could be
more natural, looking at all the circumstances of the Tickler engagement? She therefore gave
her voice against any steps being taken by the archdeacon. A day or two after that Mrs. Proudie
met Mrs. Arabin in the close and condoled with her openly on the termination of the marriage
treaty;--quite openly, for Mrs. Tickler--as she was to be--was with her mother, and Mrs. Arabin
was accompanied by her sister-in-law, Mary Bold.

"It must be very grievous to Mrs. Grantly, very grievous indeed," said Mrs. Proudie, "and I
sincerely feel for her. But, Mrs. Arabin, all these lessons are sent to us for our eternal
welfare."

"Of course," said Mrs. Arabin. "But as to this special lesson, I am inclined to doubt that it--"

"Ah-h! I fear it is too true. I fear there is no room for doubt. Of course you are aware that
Lord Dumbello is off for the Continent." Mrs Arabin was not aware of it, and she was obliged
to admit as much.

"He started four days ago, by way of Boulogne," said Mrs. Tickler, who seemed to be very well
up in the whole affair. "I am so sorry for poor dear Griselda. I am told she has got all her
things. It is such a pity, you know."

"But why should not Lord Dumbello come back from the Continent?" said Miss Bold, very quietly.

"Why not, indeed? I'm sure I hope he may," said Mrs. Proudie. "And no doubt he will, some day.
But if he be such a man as they say he is, it is really well for Griselda that she should be
relieved from such a marriage. For, after all, Mrs. Arabin, what are the things of this world?--dust
beneath our feet, ashes between our teeth, grass cut for the oven, vanity, vexation, and nothing
more!"--well pleased with which variety of Christian metaphors Mrs. Proudie walked on, still
muttering, however, something about worms and grubs, by which she intended to signify her own
species and the Dumbello and Grantly sects of it in particular. This now had gone so far that
Mrs. Arabin conceived herself bound in duty to see her sister, and it was then settled in consultation
at Plumstead that the archdeacon should call officially at the palace and beg that the rumour
might be contradicted. This he did early on the next morning and was shown into the bishop's
study, in which he found both his lordship and Mrs. Proudie. The bishop rose to greet him with
special civility, smiling his very sweetest on him, as though of all his clergy the archdeacon
were the favourite; but Mrs. Proudie wore something of a gloomy aspect, as though she knew
that such a visit at such an hour must have reference to some special business. The morning
calls made by the archdeacon at the palace in the way of ordinary civility were not numerous.
On the present occasion he dashed at once into his subject. "I have called this morning, Mrs.
Proudie," said he, "because I wish to ask a favour from you." Whereupon Mrs. Proudie bowed.

"Mrs. Proudie will be most happy, I am sure," said the bishop.

"I find that some foolish people have been talking in Barchester about my daughter," said the
archdeacon; "and I wish to ask Mrs. Proudie--"

Most women under such circumstances would have felt the awkwardness of their situation, and
would have prepared to eat their past words with wry faces. But not so Mrs. Proudie. Mrs. Grantly
had had the imprudence to throw Mr. Slope in her face--there, in her own drawing-room, and
she was resolved to be revenged. Mrs. Grantly, too, had ridiculed the Tickler match, and no
too great niceness should now prevent Mrs. Proudie from speaking her mind about the Dumbello match.

"A great many people are talking about her, I am sorry to say," said Mrs. Proudie; "but, poor
dear, it is not her fault. It might have happened to any girl; only, perhaps, a little more
care--; you'll excuse me, Dr. Grantly."

"I have come here to allude to a report which has been spread about in Barchester, that the
match between Lord Dumbello and my daughter has been broken off; and--"

"Everybody in Barchester knows it, I believe," said Mrs. Proudie.

"--and", continued the archdeacon, "to request that that report may be contradicted."

"Contradicted! Why, he has gone right away,--out of the country."

"Never mind where he has gone to, Mrs. Proudie; I beg that the report may be contradicted."

"You'll have to go round to every house in Barchester then," said she.

"By no means," replied the archdeacon. "And, perhaps, it may be right that I should explain
to the bishop that I came here because--"

"The bishop knows nothing about it," said Mrs. Proudie.

"Nothing in the world," said his lordship. "And I am sure I hope that the young lady may not
be disappointed."

"--because the matter was so distinctly mentioned to Mrs. Arabin by yourself yesterday."

"Distinctly mentioned! Of course it was distinctly mentioned. There are some things which can't
be kept under a bushel, Dr. Grantly; and this seems to be one of them. Your going about in
this way won't make Lord Dumbello marry the young lady." That was true; nor would it make Mrs.
Proudie hold her tongue. Perhaps the archdeacon was wrong in his present errand, and so he
now began to bethink himself. "At any rate," said he, "when I tell you that there is no ground
whatever for such a report you will do me the kindness to say that, as far as you are concerned,
it shall go no further. I think, my lord, I am not asking too much in asking that."

"The bishop knows nothing about it," said Mrs. Proudie again.

"Nothing at all," said the bishop.

"And as I must protest that I believe the information which has reached me on this head," said
Mrs. Proudie, "I do not see how it is possible that I should contradict it. I can easily understand
your feelings, Dr. Grantly. Considering your daughter's position the match was, as regards
earthly wealth, a very great one. I do not wonder that you should be grieved at its being broken
off; but I trust that this sorrow may eventuate in a blessing to you and to Miss Griselda.
These worldly disappointments are precious balms, and I trust you know how to accept them as
such." The fact was that Dr. Grantly had done altogether wrong in coming to the palace. His
wife might have some chance with Mrs. Proudie, but he had none. Since she had come to Barchester
he had had only two or three encounters with her, and in all of these he had gone to the wall.
His visits to the palace always resulted in his leaving the presence of the inhabitants in
a frame of mind by no means desirable, and he now found that he had to do so once again. He
could not compel Mrs. Proudie to say that the report was untrue; nor could he condescend to
make counter hits at her about her own daughter, as his wife would have done. And thus having
utterly failed, he got up and took his leave. But the worst of the matter was, that, in going
home, he could not divest his mind of the idea that there might be some truth in the report.
What if Lord Dumbello had gone to the Continent resolved to send back from thence some reason
why it was impossible that he should make Miss Grantly his wife? Such things had been done
before now by men in his rank. Whether or no Mrs. Tickler had been the letter-writing wellwisher
from Littlebath, or had induced her friend to be so, it did seem manifest to him, Dr. Grantly,
that Mrs. Proudie absolutely believed the report which she promulgated so diligently. The wish
might be father to the thought, no doubt; but that the thought was truly there, Dr. Grantly
could not induce himself to disbelieve. His wife was less credulous, and to a certain degree
comforted him; but that evening he received a letter which greatly confirmed the suspicions
set on foot by Mrs. Proudie, and even shook his wife's faith in Lord Dumbello. It was from
a mere acquaintance, who in the ordinary course of things would not have written to him. And
the bulk of the letter referred to ordinary things, as to which the gentleman in question would
hardly have thought of giving himself the trouble to write a letter. But at the end of the
note he said,--"of course you are aware that Dumbello is off to Paris; I have not heard whether
the exact day of his return is fixed."

"It is true, then," said the archdeacon, striking the library table with his hand, and becoming
absolutely white about the mouth and jaws.

"It cannot be," said Mrs. Grantly; but even she was now trembling.

"If it be so I'll drag him back to England by the collar of his coat, and disgrace him before
the steps of his father's hall." And the archdeacon as he uttered the threat looked his character
as an irate British father much better than he did his other character as a clergyman of the
Church of England. The archdeacon had been greatly worsted by Mrs. Proudie, but he was a man
who knew how to fight his battles among men--sometimes without too close a regard to his cloth.

"Had Lord Dumbello intended any such thing he would have written, or got some friend to write
by this time," said Mrs. Grantly. "It is quite possible that he might wish to be off, but he
would be too chary of his name not to endeavour to do so with decency."

Thus the matter was discussed, and it appeared to them both to be so serious that the archdeacon
resolved to go at once to London. That Lord Dumbello had gone to France he did not doubt; but
he would find some one in town acquainted with the young man's intentions, and he would, no
doubt, be able to hear when his return was expected. If there were real reason for apprehension
he would follow the runagate to the Continent, but he would not do this without absolute knowledge.
According to Lord Dumbello's present engagements he was bound to present himself in August
next at Plumstead Episcopi, with the view of then and there taking Griselda Grantly in marriage;
but if he kept his word in this respect no one had a right to quarrel with him for going to
Paris in the meantime. Most expectant bridegrooms would, no doubt, under such circumstances,
have declared their intentions to their future brides; but if Lord Dumbello were different
from others, who had a right on that account to be indignant with him? He was unlike other
men in other things; and especially unlike other men in being the eldest son of the Marquess
of Hartletop. It would be all very well for Tickler to proclaim his whereabouts from week to
week; but the eldest son of a marquess might find it inconvenient to be so precise! "Theres a widow,
with her daughter and son in law and three children in there." I said. "I believe the women
go out charring, and the man lays bricks." The man in front is named Glegg, and that is his daughter.
I think they were well to do at one point, he was a tradesman once.

Things didn't go so well, and his wife and him caught the fever. she died, and he's been weak
ever since. He can't work anymore, and his daughter earns money sewing."

Mary was out, she had gone home to take some work, hoping she'd be paid right away. A few
shillings could get them food and coal, and they needed both badly.

"It will kill me," said Mrs. Grantly; "but I think that she will be able to bear it." On the
next morning Mrs. Grantly, with much cunning preparation, went about the task which her husband
had left her to perform. It took her long to do, for she was very cunning in the doing of it;
but at last it dropped from her in words that there was a possibility--a bare possibility--that
some disappointment might even yet be in store for them.

"Do you mean, mamma, that the marriage will be put off?"

"I don't mean to say that I think it will; God forbid! but it is just possible. I dare say
that I am very wrong to tell you this, but I know that you have sense enough to bear it. Papa
has gone to London, and we shall hear from him soon."

"Then, mamma, I had better give them orders not to go on with the marking."

CHAPTER XLVI

Lady Lufton's Request

The bailiffs on that day had their meals regular--and their beer, which state of things, together
with an absence of all duty in the way of making inventories and the like, I take to be the
earthly paradise of bailiffs; and on the next morning they walked off with civil speeches and
many apologies as to their intrusion. "They was very sorry," they said, "to have troubled a
gen'leman as were a gen'leman, but in their way of business what could they do?" To which one
of them added a remark that, "business is business." This statement I am not prepared to contradict,
but I would recommend all men in choosing a profession to avoid any that may require an apology
at every turn; either an apology or else a somewhat violent assertion of right. Each younger
male reader may, perhaps, reply that he has no thought of becoming a sheriff's officer; but
then are there not other cognate lines of life to which, perhaps, the attention of some such
may be attracted? On the evening of the day on which they went Mark received a note from Lady
Lufton begging him to call early on the following morning, and immediately after breakfast
he went across to Framley Court. It may be imagined that he was not in a very happy frame of
mind, but he felt the truth of his wife's remark that the first plunge into cold water was
always the worst. Lady Lufton was not a woman who would continually throw his disgrace into
his teeth, however terribly cold might be the first words with which she spoke of it. He strove
hard as he entered her room to carry his usual look and bearing, and to put out his hand to
greet her with his customary freedom, but he knew that he failed. And it may be said that no
good man who has broken down in his goodness can carry the disgrace of his fall without some
look of shame. When a man is able to do that, he ceases to be in any way good.

"This has been a distressing affair," said Lady Lufton, after her first salutation.

"Yes, indeed," said he. "It has been very sad for poor Fanny."

"Well; we must all have our little periods of grief; and it may perhaps be fortunate if none
of us have worse than this. She will not complain, herself, I am sure."

"She complain!"

"No, I am sure she will not. And now all I've got to say, Mr. Robarts, is this: I hope you
and Lufton have had enough to do with black sheep to last you your lives; for I must protest
that your late friend Mr. Sowerby is a black sheep." In no possible way could Lady Lufton have
alluded to the matter with greater kindness than in thus joining Mark's name with that of her
son. It took away all the bitterness of the rebuke, and made the subject one on which even
he might have spoken without difficulty. But now, seeing that she was so gentle to him, he
could not but lean the more hardly on himself.

"I have been very foolish," said he, "very foolish, and very wrong, and very wicked."

"Very foolish, I believe, Mr. Robarts--to speak frankly and once for all; but, as I also believe,
nothing worse. I thought it best for both of us that we should just have one word about it,
and now I recommend that the matter be never mentioned between us again."

"God bless you, Lady Lufton," he said, "I think no man ever had such a friend as you are."
She had been very quiet during the interview, and almost subdued, not speaking with the animation
that was usual to her; for this affair with Mr. Robarts was not the only one she had to complete
that day, nor, perhaps, the one most difficult of completion. But she cheered up a little under
the praise now bestowed on her, for it was the sort of praise she loved best. She did hope,
and perhaps flatter herself, that she was a good friend.

"You must be good enough, then, to gratify my friendship by coming up to dinner this evening;
and Fanny, too, of course. I cannot take any excuse, for the matter is completely arranged.
I have a particular reason for wishing it." These last violent injunctions had been added because
Lady Lufton had seen a refusal rising in the parson's face. Poor Lady Lufton! Her enemies--for
even she had enemies--used to declare of her, that an invitation to dinner was the only method
of showing itself of which her good-humour was cognizant. But let me ask of her enemies whether
it is not as good a method as any other known to be extant? Under such orders as these obedience
was of course a necessity, and he promised that he, with his wife, would come across to dinner.
And then, when he went away, Lady Lufton ordered her carriage.

During these doings at Framley, Lucy Robarts still remained at Hogglestock, nursing Mrs. Crawley.
Nothing occurred to take her back to Framley, for the same note from Fanny which gave her the
first tidings of the arrival of the Philistines told her also of their departure--and also
of the source from whence relief had reached them. "Don't come, therefore, for that reason,"
said the note, "but, nevertheless, do come as quickly as you can, for the whole house is sad
without you." On the morning after the receipt of this note Lucy was sitting, as was now usual
with her, beside an old arm-chair to which her patient had lately been promoted. The fever
had gone, and Mrs. Crawley was slowly regaining her strength--very slowly, and with frequent
caution from the Silverbridge doctor that any attempt at being well too fast might again precipitate
her into an abyss of illness and domestic inefficiency.

"I really think I can get about to-morrow," said she; "and then, dear Lucy, I need not keep
you longer from your home."

"You are in a great hurry to get rid of me, I think. I suppose Mr. Crawley has been complaining
again about the cream in his tea."

Mr. Crawley had on one occasion stated his assured conviction that surreptitious daily supplies
were being brought into the house, because he had detected the presence of cream instead of
milk in his own cup. As, however, the cream had been going for sundry days before this, Miss
Robarts had not thought much of his ingenuity in making the discovery.

"Ah, you do not know how he speaks of you when your back is turned."

"And how does he speak of me? I know you would not have the courage to tell me the whole."

"No, I have not; for you would think it absurd coming from one who looks like him. He says
that if he were to write a poem about womanhood, he would make you the heroine."

"With a cream-jug in my hand, or else sewing buttons on to a shirt-collar. But he never forgave
me about the mutton broth. He told me, in so many words, that I was a--story-teller. And for
the matter of that, my dear, so I was."

"He told me that you were an angel."

"Goodness gracious!"

"A ministering angel. And so you have been. I can almost feel it in my heart to be glad that
I have been ill, seeing that I have had you for my friend."

"But you might have had that good fortune without the fever."

"No, I should not. In my married life I have made no friends till my illness brought you to
me; nor should I ever really have known you but for that. How should I get to know any one?"

"You will now, Mrs. Crawley; will you not? Promise that you will. You will come to us at Framley
when you are well? You have promised already, you know."

"You made me do so when I was too weak to refuse."

"And I shall make you keep your promise, too. He shall come, also, if he likes; but you shall
come whether he likes or no. And I won't hear a word about your old dresses. Old dresses will
wear as well at Framley as at Hogglestock." From all which it will appear that Mrs. Crawley
and Lucy Robarts had become very intimate during this period of the nursing; as two women always
will, or, at least, should do, when shut up for weeks together in the same sick room.

The conversation was still going on between them when the sound of wheels was heard upon the
road. It was no highway that passed before the house, and carriages of any sort were not frequent
there.

"It is Fanny, I am sure," said Lucy, rising from her chair.

"There are two horses," said Mrs. Crawley, distinguishing the noise with the accurate sense
of hearing which is always attached to sickness; "and it is not the noise of the pony-carriage."

"It is a regular carriage," said Lucy, speaking from the window, "and stopping here. It is
somebody from Framley Court, for I know the servant." As she spoke a blush came to her forehead.
Might it not be Lord Lufton, she thought to herself--forgetting, at the moment, that Lord Lufton
did not go about the country in a close chariot with a fat footman. Intimate as she had become
with Mrs. Crawley she had said nothing to her new friend on the subject of her love affair.
The carriage stopped, and down came the footman, but nobody spoke to him from the inside.

"He has probably brought something from Framley," said Lucy, having cream and such-like matters
in her mind; for cream and such-like matters had come from Framley Court more than once during
her sojourn there. "And the carriage, probably, happened to be coming this way." But the mystery
soon elucidated itself partially, or, perhaps, became more mysterious in another way. The red-armed
little girl who had been taken away by her frightened mother in the first burst of the fever
had now returned to her place, and at the present moment entered the room, with awe-struck
face, declaring that Miss Robarts was to go at once to the big lady in the carriage.

"I suppose it's Lady Lufton," said Mrs. Crawley. Lucy's heart was so absolutely in her mouth
that any kind of speech was at the moment impossible to her. Why should Lady Lufton have come
thither to Hogglestock, and why should she want to see her, Lucy Robarts, in the carriage?
Had not everything between them been settled? And yet--! Lucy, in the moment for thought that
was allowed to her, could not determine what might be the probable upshot of such an interview.
Her chief feeling was a desire to postpone it for the present instant. But the red-armed little
girl would not allow that.

"You are to come at once," said she.

And then Lucy, without having spoken a word, got up and left the room. She walked downstairs,
along the little passage, and out through the small garden, with firm steps, but hardly knowing
whither she went or why. Her presence of mind and self-possession had all deserted her. She
knew that she was unable to speak as she should do; she felt that she would have to regret
her present behaviour, but yet she could not help herself. Why should Lady Lufton have come
to her there? She went on, and the big footman stood with the carriage door open. She stepped
up almost unconsciously, and, without knowing how she got there, she found herself seated by
Lady Lufton. To tell the truth her ladyship also was a little at a loss to know how she was
to carry through her present plan of operations. The duty of beginning, however, was clearly
with her, and therefore, having taken Lucy by the hand, she spoke. "Miss Robarts," she said,
"my son has come home. I don't know whether you are aware of it." She spoke with a low, gentle
voice, not quite like herself, but Lucy was much too confused to notice this.

"I was not aware of it," said Lucy. She had, however, been so informed in Fanny's letter, but
all that had gone out of her head.

"Yes; he has come back. He has been in Norway, you know,--fishing."

"Yes," said Lucy.

"I am sure you will remember all that took place when you came to me, not long ago, in my little
room upstairs at Framley Court." In answer to which, Lucy, quivering in every nerve, and wrongly
thinking that she was visibly shaking in every limb, timidly answered that she did remember.
Why was it that she had then been so bold, and now was so poor a coward?

"Well, my dear, all that I said to you then I said to you thinking that it was for the best.
You, at any rate, will not be angry with me for loving my own son better than I love any one else."

"Oh, no," said Lucy.

"He is the best of sons, and the best of men, and I am sure that he will be the best of husbands."

Lucy had an idea, by instinct, however, rather than by sight, that Lady Lufton's eyes were
full of tears as she spoke. As for herself she was altogether blinded, and did not dare to
lift her face or to turn her head. As for the utterance of any sound, that was quite out of
the question.

"And now I have come here, Lucy, to ask you to be his wife."

She was quite sure that she heard the words. They came plainly to her ears, leaving on her
brain their proper sense, but yet she could not move or make any sign that she had understood
them. It seemed as though it would be ungenerous in her to take advantage of such conduct and
to accept an offer made with so much self-sacrifice. She had not time at the first moment to
think even of his happiness, let alone her own, but she thought only of the magnitude of the
concession which had been made to her. When she had constituted Lady Lufton the arbiter of
her destiny she had regarded the question of her love as decided against herself. She had found
herself unable to endure the position of being Lady Lufton's daughter-in-law while Lady Lufton
would be scorning her, and therefore she had given up the game. She had given up the game,
sacrificing herself, and, as far as it might be a sacrifice, sacrificing him also. She had
been resolute to stand to her word in this respect, but she had never allowed herself to think
it possible that Lady Lufton should comply with the conditions which she, Lucy, had laid upon
her. And yet such was the case, as she so plainly heard. "And now I have come here, Lucy, to
ask you to be his wife." How long they sat together silent, I cannot say; counted by minutes
the time would not probably have amounted to many, but to each of them the duration seemed
considerable. Lady Lufton, while she was speaking, had contrived to get hold of Lucy's hand,
and she sat, still holding it, trying to look into Lucy's face,--which, however, she could
hardly see, so much was it turned away. Neither, indeed, were Lady Lufton's eyes perfectly
dry. No answer came to her question, and therefore, after a while, it was necessary that she
should speak again.

"Must I go back to him, Lucy, and tell him that there is some other objection--something besides
a stern old mother; some hindrance, perhaps, not so easily overcome?"

"No," said Lucy, and it was all which at the moment she could say.

"What shall I tell him then? Shall I say yes--simply yes?"

"Simply yes," said Lucy.

"And as to the stern old mother who thought her only son too precious to be parted with at
the first word--is nothing to be said to her?"

"Oh, Lady Lufton!"

"No forgiveness to be spoken, no sign of affection to be given? Is she always to be regarded
as stern and cross, vexatious and disagreeable?" Lucy slowly turned round her head and looked
up into her companion's face. Though she had as yet no voice to speak of affection she could
fill her eyes with love, and in that way make to her future mother all the promises that were
needed. "Lucy, dearest Lucy, you must be very dear to me now." And then they were in each other's
arms, kissing each other. Lady Lufton now desired her coachman to drive up and down for some
little space along the road while she completed her necessary conversation with Lucy. She wanted
at first to carry her back to Framley that evening, promising to send her again to Mrs. Crawley
on the following morning--"till some permanent arrangement could be made," by which Lady Lufton
intended the substitution of a regular nurse for her future daughter-in-law, seeing that Lucy
Robarts was now invested in her eyes with attributes which made it unbecoming that she should
sit in attendance at Mrs. Crawley's bedside. But Lucy would not go back to Framley on that
evening; no, nor on the next morning. She would be so glad if Fanny would come to her there,
and then she would arrange about going home. "But, Lucy, dear, what am I to say to Ludovic?
Perhaps you would feel it awkward if he were to come to see you here."

"Oh, yes, Lady Lufton; pray tell him not to do that."

"And is that all that I am to tell him?"

"Tell him--tell him--he won't want you to tell him anything;--only I should like to be quiet
for a day, Lady Lufton."

"Well, dearest, you shall be quiet; the day after to-morrow then.--Mind, we must not spare
you any longer, because it will be right that you should be at home now. He would think it
very hard if you were to be so near, and he was not to be allowed to look at you. And there
will be some one else who will want to see you. I shall want to have you very near to me, for
I shall be wretched, Lucy, if I cannot teach you to love me." In answer to which Lucy did find
voice enough to make sundry promises. And then she was put out of the carriage at the little
wicket gate, and Lady Lufton was driven back to Framley. I wonder whether the servant when
he held the door for Miss Robarts was conscious that he was waiting on his future mistress.
I fancy that he was, for these sort of people always know everything, and the peculiar courtesy
of his demeanour as he let down the carriage steps was very observable.

Lucy felt almost beside herself as she returned upstairs, not knowing what to do or how to
look, and with what words to speak. It behoved her to go at once to Mrs. Crawley's room, and
yet she longed to be alone. She knew that she was quite unable either to conceal her thoughts
or express them; nor did she wish at the present moment to talk to any one about her happiness,--seeing
that she could not at the present moment talk to Fanny Robarts. She went, however, without
delay into Mrs. Crawley's room, and with that little eager way of speaking quickly which is
so common with people who know that they are confused, said that she feared she had been a
very long time away. "And was it Lady Lufton?"

"Yes; it was Lady Lufton."

"Why, Lucy; I did not know that you and her ladyship were such friends."

"She had something particular she wanted to say," said Lucy, avoiding the question, and avoiding
also Mrs. Crawley's eyes; and then she sat down in her usual chair.

"It was nothing unpleasant, I hope."

"No, nothing at all unpleasant; nothing of that kind.--Oh, Mrs. Crawley, I'll tell you some
other time, but pray do not ask me now." And then she got up and escaped, for it was absolutely
necessary that she should be alone.

When she reached her own room--that in which the children usually slept--she made a great effort
to compose herself, but not altogether successfully. She got out her paper and blotting-book,
intending, as she said to herself, to write to Fanny, knowing, however, that the letter when
written would be destroyed; but she was not able even to form a word. Her hand was unsteady
and her eyes were dim and her thoughts were incapable of being fixed. She could only sit, and
think, and wonder and hope; occasionally wiping the tears from her eyes, and asking herself
why her present frame of mind was so painful to her? During the last two or three months she
had felt no fear of Lord Lufton, had always carried herself before him on equal terms, and
had been signally capable of doing so when he made his declaration to her at the parsonage;
but now she looked forward with an undefined dread to the first moment in which she should
see him. And then she thought of a certain evening she had passed at Framley Court, and acknowledged
to herself that there was some pleasure in looking back to that. Griselda Grantly had been
there, and all the constitutional powers of the two families had been at work to render easy
a process of love-making between her and Lord Lufton. Lucy had seen and understood it all,
without knowing that she understood it, and had, in a certain degree, suffered from beholding
it. She had placed herself apart, not complaining--painfully conscious of some inferiority,
but, at the same time, almost boasting to herself that in her own way she was the superior.
And then he had come behind her chair, whispering to her, speaking to her his first words of
kindness and good-nature, and she had resolved that she would be his friend--his friend, even
though Griselda Grantly might be his wife. I thank God each day for giving me these last sixty
years on earth, as each day is filled with joy. I do feel sorry for all those people out there who dread
old age fearing sorrow or pain. But now--

She sate so for about an hour, and would fain have so sat out the day. But as this could not
be, she got up, and having washed her face and eyes returned to Mrs. Crawley's room. There
she found Mr. Crawley also, to her great joy, for she knew that while he was there no questions
would be asked of her. He was always very gentle to her, treating her with an old-fashioned,
polished respect--except when compelled on that one occasion by his sense of duty to accuse
her of mendacity respecting the purveying of victuals--, but he had never become absolutely
familiar with her as his wife had done; and it was well for her now that he had not done so,
for she could not have talked about Lady Lufton. In the evening, when the three were present,
she did manage to say that she expected Mrs. Robarts would come over on the following day.
"We shall part with you, Miss Robarts, with the deepest regret," said Mr. Crawley; "but we
would not on any account keep you longer. Mrs. Crawley can do without you now. What she would
have done, had you not come to us, I am at a loss to think."

"I did not say that I should go," said Lucy.

"But you will," said Mrs. Crawley. "Yes, dear, you will. I know that it is proper now that
you should return. Nay, but we will not have you any longer. And the poor dear children, too,--they
may return. How am I to thank Mrs. Robarts for what she has done for us?" It was settled that
if Mrs. Robarts came on the following day Lucy should go back with her; and then, during the
long watches of the night--for on this last night Lucy would not leave the bedside of her new
friend till long after the dawn had broken, she did tell Mrs. Crawley what was to be her destiny
in life. The lady, however, sent their invitations, and calmly announced that the day of her choice
would be clear.  When asked how he dared to take that risk, she replied: "There was no risk;.
I had telegraphed to the man in New York"
All the kids laughed, and spent some time before the teacher could
calm them enough to add the few words he ended his brief lecture.

"The most violent storms have been found generally to spin in circles, and are called cyclones.
In some parts of the world are very disastrous.
One occurred in India in 1864 which destroyed 45,000 lives in one day. Ten years ago, when English
and French were at war with Russia, a storm was observed to start
in France and moving eastward.  
timely warning was sent to the
Allied fleet in the Black Sea.

   The storm arrived in the violence so terrible that if it had not
been expected, would probably have destroyed one of the most magnificent
marine waters than ever mounted, and may have changed the theme of
war.

   "
   PROBLEMS IN THE PLAY-ROOM.
   "-. I do not care I'm as mad as I can be to keep me in just
   a little rain!
   I will not be good - I will not play with my dolls.
   I'll flog each of them, and put to bed this instant.

"
That bitch bit like Bessie Hatch looked at the time, with flashing black eyes, said her hands and
her cheeks like two poppies on fire!

   
   Half and half angry, funny, Annie, the Irish nurse, considered
   by her for a moment.
   "Indade, but with a time SWAT has, Bessie Hatch, and I hope for their
own good mentality going to be before you grow.

Not that lettin 'out, when his ma up orders in particular would not
go if it rained.

   Just hear the storm batin agin 'windows. Your cousin did
   not expect it at all. Oh, shake your wrists as much as you
   want, "as Bessie made an angry edge to them," not going
   to hurt your feelings a lot, I guess.
   There are babies crying! "He added, suddenly, and rushed
   into the room down the hall.
   Meanwhile Bessie had taken his biggest doll chair he was
   resting, and belabored deep with a piece of whale bone that
   was close. Then, after shaking her heart, she threw him
   to the bed where he lay with closed eyes black, as if overcome
   by his feelings. She was a very handsome wax doll, with
   brown hair done up like a lady in puffs and curls.
   She had a somewhat haughty expression, carried his head slightly
   to one side, and was dressed in the "style."
   Grace, a porcelain doll head, dressed simply in a blue chiffon
   and a white apron, he received his punishment next, and was
   placed next to Miss Augusta.

   However, Winnie, Winnie dear, Bessie's favorite
   doll, she could have the heart to punish her this way? - Winnie,
   with her golden-brown curls and bright hazel eyes and round
   face and molded loved as a child. How beautiful was his smiling
   mouth!
   How trusting affection she seemed to look to Bessie, as it
   took in a shaky! But the memory of lost pleasure turned
   to her, and with it the bitterness and anger that had encouraged
   her for a moment before. Winnie received her stripes as the
   rest, but instead of pulling on the bed, Bessie set back
   in his chair, turning her face to the window that she did
   not see.
   Somehow his anger seemed to have happened to the last beat,
   and a creeping sense of shame in her little heart.
   She intended to go through her baby-house, punishing all prisoners,
   but took a picture book, and slept in the room next to the window.

How everything seemed quiet! Annie had brought the baby down the stairs to feed him.
She heard no sound but the hum of the sewing machine in the next room, where Jane Kennedy, the
seamstress was working.
He felt drowsy and sleepy. Head slowly sank into the cushions of the room and closed the drooping
eyelids.
A crack near her made her open with a beginning, and in another minute she sat bolt upright, staring
with all their eyes.

Because there was a small figure no higher than Winnie, wearing a white robe behind fleece on the ground.
His soft black hair reaching to his feet, and she wore a crown of flowers that shone like dewdrops
in the sun.  
Some fear mingled with admiration as he watched her
Bessie. To a frown on his forehead was the fairy, and dark eyes were
fixed on the child were filled with disgust.  
Tap, tap, tap, came
the sound of little feet approaching. Bessie looked around and then
pulled back, terrified. Well, she could for her dolls and Grace Augusta
had somehow found the use of their limbs, and rapidly approaching
the room. But he stopped far from the tale, and reached out their
hands to it with a little pleading gesture.  
"Type of fairies!
Fairy good!" he said, his voice shrill pipe, "the injury done to us. You have been the
Good Samaritan, binding up the wounds of the afflicted, pouring in oil and balm. To the mother
of my children you have given life, and to me you have brought light, and comfort, and good
words,--making my spirit glad within me as it had not been gladdened before. All this hath
come of charity, which vaunteth not itself and is not puffed up. Faith and hope are great and
beautiful, but charity exceedeth them all." And having so spoken, instead of leading her out,
he went away and hid himself. How Puck behaved himself as Fanny drove him back to Framley,
and how those two ladies in the carriage behaved themselves--of that, perhaps, nothing further
need be said.

CHAPTER XLVII

Nemesis

But in spite of all these joyful tidings it must, alas! be remembered that Poena, that just
but Rhadamanthine goddess, whom we moderns ordinarily call Punishment, or Nemesis when we wish
to speak of her goddess-ship, very seldom fails to catch a wicked man though she have sometimes
a lame foot of her own, and though the wicked man may possibly get a start of her. In this
instance the wicked man had been our unfortunate friend Mark Robarts; wicked in that he had
wittingly touched pitch, gone to Gatherum Castle, ridden fast mares across the country to Cobbold's
Ashes, and fallen very imprudently among the Tozers; and the instrument used by Nemesis was
Mr. Tom Towers of the Jupiter, than whom, in these our days, there is no deadlier scourge in
the hands of that goddess. In the first instance, however, I must mention, though I will not
relate, a little conversation which took place between Lady Lufton and Mr. Robarts. That gentleman
thought it right to say a few words more to her ladyship respecting those money transactions.
He could not but feel, he said, that he had received that prebendal stall from the hands of
Mr. Sowerby; and under such circumstances, considering all that had happened, he could not
be easy in his mind as long as he held it. What he was about to do would, he was aware, delay
considerably his final settlement with Lord Lufton; but Lufton, he hoped, would pardon that,
and agree with him as to the propriety of what he was about to do.

On the first blush of the thing Lady Lufton did not quite go along with him. Now that Lord
Lufton was to marry the parson's sister it might be well that the parson should be a dignitary
of the Church; and it might be well, also, that one so nearly connected with her son should
be comfortable in his money matters. There loomed, also, in the future, some distant possibility
of higher clerical honours for a peer's brother-in-law; and the top rung of the ladder is always
more easily attained when a man has already ascended a step or two. But, nevertheless, when
the matter came to be fully explained to her, when she saw clearly the circumstances under
which the stall had been conferred, she did agree that it had better be given up. And well
for both of them it was--well for them all at Framley--that this conclusion had been reached
before the scourge of Nemesis had fallen. Nemesis, of course, declared that her scourge had
produced the resignation; but it was generally understood that this was a false boast, for
all clerical men at Barchester knew that the stall had been restored to the chapter, or, in
other words, into the hands of the Government, before Tom Towers had twirled the fatal lash
above his head. But the manner of the twirling was as follows:--

   It is with difficulty enough [said the article in the
   Jupiter], that the Church of England maintains at the
   present moment that ascendancy among the religious sects
   of this country which it so loudly claims. They neither
   whisper nor repine. Not a anxious speech escapes them.
   They tolerate the frowns of luck with a philosophic calm.
   (7)
   (7) Carver, Travels.
   If we traverse the Atlantic and terrain on the African
   coast, we discover that the eternal Negro' is a gambler--using
   shells as dice--and following the practice of his 'betters'
   in each way. He stakes not just his luck, but also his
   kids and freedom, which he cares very little on, all over,
   until we rouse him to do so--as, of course, we have to
   do, for each drive âperson and divine.'  
There is no hesitation,
then, that this tendency is piece and package of 'the unsophisticated
savage.' Let us rotate to the highly cultured races of antiquity--the
men whose model we have further or fewer followed in every likely
subject, sociality, politics, religion--they were every one gambler,
more or less.

   Take the majestic prototypes of Britons, the Romans of old.
   Those gamesters they were! And how betting recruited the
   position of the desperadoes who gave them dissatisfied difficulty!
   Catiline's âmilitary of scoundrels,' for example.  
The
   Romans had 'lotteries,' or playoffs of possibility,
   and a few of their prizes were of enormous price, as a
   fine estate and slaves, or prosperous vases; others of small
   value, as vases of ordinary soil, but of this more in the
   result.
   Among the Gothic kings who, in the fullness of time and
   activities, 'succeeded' to that kingdom, we read of a Theodoric,
   'a clever and courageous prince,' who was 'great fan of
   dice;' his concern in play was just for triumph; and his
   companions knew how to grab the instant of his victory,
   as consummate courtiers, to put ahead their petitions and
   to craft their needs. 'When I have an appeal to favor,' says
   one of them, 'I am simply crushed in the match that I may
   succeed my reason.'(8) What a intelligent contrivance! But
   barely equal to that of the GREAT (in politeness) Lord
   Chesterfield, who, to increase a ballot for a parliamentary
   companion, in fact submitted to be BLED! It appears
   that the elector was deemed very hard, but Chesterfield
   found out that the man was a physician, who was an ideal
   Sangrado, recommending hemorrhage for all sickness. He
   went to him, as in discussion, approved with the man's
   opinion, and at once bared his arm for the operation.

   We were, however, the other day given to understand
   that one of these luxurious benefices, belonging to the
   cathedral of Barchester, had been bestowed on the Rev.
   Mark Robarts, the vicar of a neighbouring parish, on the
   understanding that he should hold the living and the stall
   together; and on making further inquiry we were surprised
   to learn that this fortunate gentleman is as yet
   considerably under thirty years of age. There was a great opposition
   even in the fourth century. Rome, Antioch, Alexandria,
   Corinth, Ephesus, and other cities numbered many Christians
   in the third century. The great centres of trade also had
   many powerful churches. In those, people of all nations came
   together. However, they were subject of bitter persecutions,
   even in those buildings where they came together to
   worship Jehovah. Because of that, for two hundred years
   they worshipped Him secretly, in secluded locations. Christians
   did not make up a great percentage in the whole population.
   Even more they were from the poorest classes. In the first
   century there were not called many wise or noble. We have
   not found any great names between them. There were no philosophers,
   or statesmen, or nobles, or generals, or governors, or judges,
   or magistrates.

In the first century the Christians were too weak to be persecuted by the government. They had
not attracted attention. Not even Illyrian philosophers wrote against them. Even Christians
did not write aplogies themselves.

   There is no writing from any known historian at that time.
   In the cities Christians used to make up mostly artisans,
   slaves, servants, or mechanics. In the country, on
   the other hand, they were peasants. The were unimportant,
   plebeian, unlettered. We have not been handed down any distinguished
   converts except as persecutors, or as great contemporaries.
   We have read about the prosecutions of the Jews, of Herod
   Agrippa, of Philo, of Nero but not of the Christians. Eusebius
   does not write a well-known Christian in the first century.
    It may be impossible that he should himself in
   all such cases satisfy himself by personal inquiry. But
   our Government is altogether conducted on the footing of
   vicarial responsibility. Quod facit per alium, facit per
   se, is in a special manner true of our ministers, and
   any man who rises to high position among them must abide
   by the danger thereby incurred. In this peculiar case
   we are informed that the recommendation was made by a
   very recently admitted member of the Cabinet, to whose
   appointment we alluded at the time as a great mistake. The
   gentleman in question held no high individual office of
   his own; but evil such as this which has now been done at
   Barchester, is exactly the sort of mischief which follows
   the exaltation of unfit men to high positions, even though
   no great scope for executive failure may be placed within
   their reach. 

   His writing is satisfactory. I wouldn't rave, but I wouldn't
   pan it either. I raise my glass to all the vacationers who
   enjoy old fashioned humor together with poignancy and elegance.
   I repeat: pick up a copy and enjoy reading it while paddling around
on a lake in Canada. 

It happens with most couples that after marrige, the husbands work separates him from home, and
the pressure is most on the wife. This is increased with his absence from home. Before marrige
the wife would have led a much independent life but now the couple live in a small house, have 1
or 2 children and can only afford one helper, and sometimes couples cant even afford that.
This results in the husbaand and wife constantly fighting with each other. its a wonder if
she misses all the love and devotion that she had before marrige An attempt
had been made to keep it from her, but such attempts always fail, as did this. The article
was copied into all the good-natured local newspapers, and she soon discovered that something
was being hidden. Musi is full of people, its is well refined and the soil is remarkably rich.
The inhabitants are chubby, strong and autonomous in their manners, and they are courteous
and hospitable. They concede no superior power, but are often snubbed by rapacious parties
from Palembang." These freebooters would perhaps call themselves collectors of accolade. It
is greatly regretted that minute political jealousies and animosities between the European
powers whose influence prevails on each side of the isle thwart more discoveries of the course
of this significant river.
BATTAS.  One of the chief distinctions of people of this island is regarded as having the strongest
claims to originality. It is the homeland of the Battas (properly Batak), whose extraordinary
dissimilitude to the new populace is the brilliance of their ethnicity
and etiquette, and particularly in some bizarre usages, renders it
indispensable than a scrupulous amount of consideration must be remunerated
to their description.

SITUATION OF THE COUNTRY.  This nation is surrounded on the north by Achin, from which it is
estranged by the mountains of Papa and Deira. On the south its is the sovereign district of Rau
or Rawa; extending down the sea-coast on the western side from the river of Singkel to that of
Tabuyong, but inland, to the rear of Ayer Bangis, and generally across the island, which is
constricted in that part, to the eastern coast; but more or less encroached further on by the
Malayan and Achinese establishments in the most well-located maritime situations, for the
purposes of their business. It is full of people chiefly in the central parts, where there
are widespread, open or exposed plains. On the precincts (as it is said) of a great lake; the
soil is fertile, fostering and much more far-reaching than in the southern countries, which
are generally sheltered with woods, that is barely a tree to be seen excluding those planted by the
inhabitants about their villages, which are not away on the banks
of rivers, but wherever a sturdy circumstances presents itself.

Water is not so profuse to the south, which may be attributed to the moderately level exterior,
the succession of high mountains which extends northwards from the straits of Sunda throughout
the interior of the island in a enormous measure terminating with gunong Passummah or Mount Ophir.
About the bay of Tappanuli though the land is elevated and forested near the coastline.
 "Beautiful rose..
proceed."
Of the list above, the first is a beautiful quartet for females. It was written originally for occasions
such as funerals--after Longfellow had translated Silas's song. The
quartet is quite lovely. I have a power to observe things and understand every aspects of the
matter more than what is expected from me.I am able to brief the amount of money, labour and time
spent the secret archieves to gather information and the system of war perfected by the German
Empire by considering the secrets of the war machine. I began to understand other things than
what they taught me.By considering the whole proposition of secret service I will try to tell
you some of the secrets of the system. The four leading powers in Europe possess its own
secret services. Germany is in the first place with its systematic efficiency second is Russia
then French and English respectively.Although England had efficient service in Asiatic countries
like India it entered in Europe late. The International secret service Bureau with its headquarters
in Belgium is able to give reliable information for anyone who will pay for it.It is semi-private
concern. Eventhough they provide the information they won't reveal the technical details like
the plans for a new kind of gun or data about a new and minor fortification.  Often the secret
service agencies will not get a chance to go forth with a mission . But a few years ago the Russian
agents in Brussels went on a mission to identify the names of a group of revolutionists who
formed a sort of colony in Montreux in Switzerland. A young and clever French woman named Theresa
Prevost went out for this mission with a man who acted as her brother.She went there with his
so called brother and she assumed the role of an heiress from Canada. Five thousand francs were
handed over to her for the priliminary expenses.The chief of the Russian fugitives named Goluckoffsky
had a son of 22 years of age. He fell in love with the pretty Theresa.They were together for the
whole day and Charles Prevost stood in the background chatting with old Goluckoffsky and his
friends.  The young Goluckoffsky was delighted with his fiancee. Theresa and her brother invited
them with their family and friends for a lunch. Theresa insisted his young lover should bring all
his friends. To invite them for the lunch she asked him to write all their names on a slip of paper.Thus
they got all their names which St.Petersburg wanted to know. At last the day of luncheon came
which was a gala affair in the banquet room of the hotel. Theresa looked very beautiful. All
of the revelutionists were excited by her presence.Old Goluckoffsky was very thrilled about
the rich and beautiful woman who was to marry his son. But when Theresa asked her guests to pose
for a group photo with her strangely enough they were not at all pleased by this
 Their
accounting minds were afflicted with what? The affairs of "papists," as Catholics were designated.

Our pen has agitated us from our author. Of advance Mr. Fawcett will say--and say with truth--that
his strictures were aimed at the corruption and not the accepted use of the drama. But his accountability
was that he does not accomplish this clear, and by allusion he leaves himself accessible to
the charge.
Aside from this, his plan is a plan of genius; and his adventure of the little babe who struggled
with such arrogant endeavor adjoin her ambiance will reside a part of the noblest productions
of fiction accustomed us.
The Professor's Sister, by Julian Hawthorne (Belford, Clarke & Co.).--This is the a lot of
acknowledged plan of a acknowledged novelist, and holds the clairvoyant absorption from the aboriginal
page till about the last. We say reader, but not all readers. Mr. Hawthorne is as appropriate
in his plan as his eminent ancestor was, with a added baddest audience. He is at home in the
wild, awe-inspiring assembly of humanity, affected and apparent by
a spiritualism that is far aloft and above the boilerplate readers
of romance.

If it calls for as abundant culture, in its way, to adore a plan of art as its conception alleged
for in the artist, Mr. Hawthorne's fictions appeal the aforementioned tastes and anticipation
the columnist indulges in. The little babe who craves love-stories, or the traveller aloft the
cars who picks up a book to lose in its pages the boring faculty
of travel, will hardly baddest the Professor's Sister, and if he or
she does, will admiration what in the name of Heaven it is all about. The
scene was exactly similar to an excabation at Herculaneum. The outline of the rooms was the
start of being able to trace them. A grate and a fireplace appeared. We saw a child's shoe
taken out and put aside--an affecting picture of the household desolation
which had taken place.

 The extravagance of living well is, to put it succinctly, an attractive and detrimental
hubris. It's not enough to say that it is stupid, rather it rises to the level of criminality.
Having thought about it, all I can do is cover my eyes and weep. These were my thoughts, then,
about Bill, who embodied this lifestyle, and also my sorrows regarding the woman who, despite the
apparent purity of her loveliness and the wonder of her womanly gifts, embraced this horrible man
and his lifestyle. It seemed to me that I should at least try to persuade her of his baseness, if
not take her away from it entirely, else I would betray my yellow-bellied temerity and evince
my valuelessness. The officer asked me, when we spoke of this, why I didn't try, and I answered
that I might have done so when I was younger, when I was more willing to tilt at windmills
and giants.

Instead, I hoped I would find, someday, a better way to live that is extravagant only in its
deference to humility and genuineness, and, in that new life, discover the courage and strength
that failed me then and fail me even now. Defenders is delivered to his majesty by the Lord, they can be called
with any names or tittles. This defenders doubts everything except religion and laws, which
in their point of view is the rights and liberties of kingdoms is bound to be, but nevertheless
it is the best security which can be given to persons and authority hold by kings and governors.
 Bull is guided by a string tied to a nose ring, but no pattern
of rear drive or its not recommended for comfortable walking.
Most of the roads in Santo Domingo, can be called only road courtesy. They are generally little
more than trails of greater or lesser width. Proceeds largest state enjoyed as customs collections
were taken over by Americans in 1905, caused a little improvement. Thus, a first-class macadam
road was built from Santo Domingo City to San Cristobal, a distance of sixteen miles the old
route from Santo Domingo to San Pedro de Macoris car became available, and the royal road Cibao
in Santiago and La Vega in Moca Monte Cristi, a distance of approximately 100 miles, a former terror
was transformed into a fair dirt road. Workload to make all seem more terrible when it is considered
that the small island of Jamaica, less than one quarter the size of the Dominican Republic,
there are 1000 miles of good roads. U.S. authorities on the island of considerable attention
to improving the main highways around and between major cities, and valuable work is being done.
By executive order of 11/23/1917, military governor appropriated $ 650,000, to be spent on parts
of the trunk road, which is eventually to connect Santo Domingo, La Vega, Moca, Santiago and
Monte Cristi.
Most roads and trails were reached only in their course was established
centuries ago. At the time your servant came, he sees that we had
two small young lions, and through him we send the lions to you. Knowing we have receives through
our servants given by your Master, three coach-horses. For each coach requires four horses to
draw it. In order to obtain the coach with four horses, you need to send us another good one
of the same kind and size. By all means you should oblige us since
we depend on it. Farewell. 

Their love for each other was so deep they thought their hearts would break. It wasn't just
a physical attraction that brought them together; they seemed to be kindred souls in so many
ways. They discovered a shared passion for the same ideas and goals. They seemed to be part of
a long procession of lovers, so that they were part of a parade of starry-eyed partners. They
kept in their hearts and memories the utter joy they felt when they first met in the forest, replaying
those first days and night over and over. The mere thought of the other was so overpowering
it was almost impossible to breathe or to function coherently during
the mundane hours when they must be apart, until they could be together
again and once again be engulfed in the utter joy of each other.

This is what young love is like; it is all-encompassing, and it is
as sweet as a spring morning.

But just as spring must pass, so too does young love.

As for Christophe and Ada, the comments of the villagers did not dissuade him from her, but
rather, made his desire for her even more intense. The villagers had wasted no time: they knew
of the tryst the day after it occurred. Ada was excited by it all and did not try to hide what
had happened. Christophe was more reserved and wished Ada herself would have been more demure about it all.
Nevertheless, once he felt the eyes of the villagers on him, he decided to rise to the occasion
and stood by his Ada.
The village was alive with gossip; even Christophe's fellow orchestra players commented on it, but Christophe
did not respond. He felt that his business was his own.
Though he resolved to stand by Ada, he lost some business because of it. The more conservative
families censured him and refused to allow their children to continue with their music lessons
with him. Other families retained his services but decided that the mother must be present
during any lessons involving a daughter, and these mothers sat close by as if their daughters'
very virginity was at risk.
Of course, all the girls in town were theoretically ignorant of the events, and of course, they
all knew every detail. They held up their noses in his presence, but inside they itched for every
scrap of information they could find. The blue-collar workers remained staunchly in Christophe's
corner, but he did not appreciate their support. He was just as disgusted by their rallying behind
him as he was by the disapproval evidenced by everyone else. Since he could do nothing about the
disapproval, he did not even make an attempt to retain their good graces. He was absolutely livid
with the pettiness of it all.
Those who were most horrified by his actions were Justus Euler and
the Vogels, who acted as though Christophe had affronted them personally.
 Some of the most strange
oddities of expression are too well known for effect today. The had to spark prodigiously
in the West-end days.
"You seem to have caught a cold," Burmmell said to a visitor lounging in a chair, after he
heard him cough. The visitor replied, "Yes-I got out of my carriage yesterday, coming from the
Pavilion, and the wretch at the innkeeper put me in the room with a stranger."
It was stromy afternoon in August--"Brummell, did any one ever see such a beautiful summer day?" and
of course he replied -- "Yes, last winter." Some who were not highly skilled were separated and relegated to civil service. This meant
that they were entirely at the mercy of the Emperor. These aliens, from subjugated countries, and
numbering 2,400, were sent out to various institutions. They were constantly reminded about
the greatness and nobility of Napoleon in order to convert them into servile Frenchmen. They
were made to feel that they were the âguestsâ of the Emperor, when in fact they were held
as hostages to make sure that their parents bent to the dictates of Napoleon and did not cause
any trouble. This strategy did produce great results, proving that all the expense of maintaining
such a large number foreigners was not wasteful. These people were prodigiously productive and
within the brief period of the reign of Napoleon, they achieved much that made the people of
France happy and contented.

Privately educated young people turned out to be no match to those who attended government
run schools. It does not need any great foresight to predict that the success of the government
schools and educational institution would spell the doom of expensive private education and
religious seminaries. Over a period of time, these private organizations became part of the government
schools or lyceums. Educational institutions were started all over the country to meet the educational
needs of the society. These institutions cost only a fraction of what private education or seminaries
did. It is not surprising, therefore, that parents began to prefer lyceums to seminaries to
educate their children. Naturally, government spent a huge amount to provide quality education
at low cost. The general public, as always, was willing to be taxed indirectly, though they
would vigorously object to direct or heavy taxation. Politicians, irrespective of their political
leanings never fail to make use of this strategy to attract people to support the party in
power.
The imperial court was at the height of its pomp and grandeur during the summer and fall of
1807.
 The Church is the host of believers, among whom the Gospel is faithfully instructed,
and the sacraments are correctly tendered.

ARTICLE IX. - REGARDING BAPTISM.

With regard to baptism, our churches educate, that this is "an indispensable ordinance," (note 1),
that it is a instrument of grace, and should be administered also to minors, who are thereby commited
to God, and welcomed into His benevolence.

ARTICLE X. - ABOUT THE LORD'S SUPPER.

Concerning the Lord's Supper, they aver that the Christ is present with those participating in the
Lord's Supper, "subject to the icons of bread and wine."

(note 2)

ARTICLE XI. - CONCERNING CONFESSION.

[As Private Confession and Absolution, which are elucidated in this Article, though in somewhat
altered arrangement, have been unanimously repudiated by the American Lutheran Church, the exclusion
of this Article is mandated by the principle on which the American Recension of the Augsburg
Confession is composed; strictly speaking, to preclude the several quanta, which are repudiated
by the largest part of our churches nationwide, and to not replace them with other articles.] [tr.
note: bracketed in the original]

ARTICLE XII. - TO THE SUBJECT OF REPENTANCE (AFTER BREAKING OF FAITH).
Regarding repentance as taught, that those who have fallen back into
sinning following baptism, may at any time be granted absolution,
on their repenting. But repentance rightly is comprised of two parts.
One is remorse, or being shaken by trepidity of conscience, because
of conceded sin. The other is conviction, which is the result of hearing
the gospel; which affirms that forgiveness of sin is granted for Christ's
sake; which soothes the conscience, and frees it from trepidation.
Subsequent to such repentance, the confessor must show good faith
by doing good works in the spirit of mercy shown. 

ARTICLE XIII.
- ABOUT THE USE OF THE SACRAMENTS. 

As regards the implementation
of the sacraments as our churches advise, that they were ordained
not only as signs of Christian commitment amongst men; but also as
evidences of the Creator's predilection towards us, furnished for
the purpose of evoking and solidifying the faith of those who participate
in them. Thus, the sacraments should be received with trust in the
promises which are evinced and offered by them. Amazingly, with a life threatening
disease at his side, he contended with his enemies for such an enlongated period. He helmed
the court, an was amazed and at the smae time discouraged at the sights he beheld. Geriatric
women, formerly involved with patriots, yet where nowhere to be seen in the past two decades,
adorned in couture fit for the era of Queen Anne. He sates , 'the joy and awkward jollity of
them is inexpressible!'. As the yeas rolled by he decided to part with the past and bring down his
ancestral home in Houghton, and embrace the future, building an extravagent, and needlessly
large mansion, which rather ironically has become somewhat decrepid in it own right over time,
and has even been partially destroyed. When the Earl of Orford, named Harley, heard of the erection
of the mansion he could not help but to snicker at its imprudence, for he himself was building
what in his own eyes was a far superior home. When Houghton was begun, Sir Hynde Aston reminded
Sir Robert of this speech. 'You ought to have recalled it to me before,' was the reply; 'for
before I began building, it might have been of use to me.' Generally categorized at a publically
funded memorial, this splendid folly of a edifice was only inhabited by Sir Robert for no more than
sixty days of that initial year. The bewildering size of the building came to be an eyesore by the
community in which it lay, for their own inferior "mantionettes"
where in no competition to Sir Roberts home.

They had to ask themselves "Who does this Sir Robert think he is, seting the bar so high for
the community, by out shadowing their residences.
To the vulgar comprehension of the Premier, Houghton, gigantic in its proportions, had its
purposes. He there assembled his supporters; there, for a short time, he entertained his constituents
and coadjutors with a magnificent, jovial hospitality, of which he, with his gay spirits,
his humourous, indelicate jokes, and his unbounded good-nature, was the very soul. Every days
feast consisted of drinking and random unsensored conversations. Concerning the area Sir Robert
writes to General CHurchill in the year 1743 'affords no news, no subject of entertainment
or amusement; for fine men of wit and pleasure about town understand neither the language and taste,
nor the pleasure of the inanimate world. My flatterers here are all mutes: the oaks, the beeches,
the chestnuts, seem to contend which best shall please the lord of
the manor.

They cannot deceive; they will not lie. I in sincerity admire them, and have as many beauties
about me as fill up all my hours of dangling, and no disgrace attending me, from sixty-seven years
of age. Within doors we come a little nearer to real life, and admire, upon the almost speaking
canvas, all the airs and graces the proudest ladies can boast.'
Horace codially share in these pursuits. Horace Mann through his agency in diplomatic service,
at Florence, viewed and purchased artwork, which was bound for either Arlington Street or the
already famous Houghton Collection, to which Horace describes as "Anecdotes of Painting". The gardens
of Houghton where even more extravagant than the artistry, in price and quality.
Pulteney, Earl of Bath writes, 'with erecting palaces and extending parks, planting gardens in
places to which the very earth was to be transported in carriages, and embracing cascades
and fountains whose water was only to be obtained by aqueducts and machines, and imitating
the extravagance of Oriental monarchs, at the expense of a free people whom he has at once
impoverished and betrayed.' concerning Sir Roberts pleasure in himself.
The former minister spared absolutely no expense when cultivating plants, buying Uvedale's 'Hortus
Siccus' and from Bradley, who was the Professor of Botany at Cambridge,
a tribute of dedication, which stated 'Sir Robert had purchased one
of the finest collections of plants in the kingdom.'  
Adding to
his already prestigeous demeanor, was his preservation of St. James's
Park for the people.

A lover of the outdoors, the Premier was extrememly dismayed when learning of Queen Caroline's
proposal to make the ancient park into a palace garden. 'She asked my father,' Horace Walpole
relates, 'what the alteration might possibly cost?'--Only three crowns' was the civil, witty,
candid answer. Wisely the Queen read the hint. Adversely she may have intended on changing the park
into the type of gardens seen in Berlin, Mannheim, and even the Tuleries.
 "Am I right in thinking
you hope to remain here three years?"

"However long it takes to understand what it takes to run a ranch," he quickly responded. "I
will be among the...."

Then he once again heard the strange sound
and stopped listening. 

Nothing is more fatal to science than the feverish impatience for results. This impatience obtains
only too much in our own days, inducing people to run after him who
is in the greatest of hurry, and leading to hasty conclusions.

 

The resident don't consider that the ground have been snow covered about four months. As lakes
remained frozen untill May, they were surprised since they used to take their cattle into
the forest in March and April. I12th ot was May the 12th, 1821 and still ice prevented the steam-boat
from navigating. From an adjacent distinction, the lake was seen
from as far as you can as a full mass of ice. Expectedly, fevers were
very common in the autumn. Ha,ha! And there was,from Alice ,a painted
calender fit to hang on any wall.it represents a Tartar nobleman haughtily walking in a green
meadow with a background of snow capped mountains.He has a long pig tail and a black velvet cap
with a puce Knob. As his mind grew calm, his attentions turned to building
a shelter to protect him from the winter storms, which were often accompanied by frost amd snow.
The island had numerous trees, which he used to build a rough hut. He thatched this roof with
grass and let dry in the sun. His attempt was a success, so much so that he grew determined
to build another close by. He would use one to sleep and the other
to prepare his meals. All our knowledge is derived from change,no matter if you are saying you know someone,
as in you know thier identity or you are saying you know something about an object. If the world
contained stronger connections than causal relations they could still only be known to us
as combined data. This is why casual relations and time based knowledge is useless.
 The Galton Laboratory of the University of London
is situated in United States. This Laboratory is directed by Karl Pearson and is the first institution
in the United States. In this Laboratory, applicants are received with the blank schedules.
In the blank schedules, the pedigree of an individual is set down easily, with reference to
the traits of eugenic importance. The office may send the duplicate schedules if desired. Out
of these two, one schedule can be retained by the applicant to his own files. These schedules
are considerd and treated as confidential. No one can access to them except the owner of the
schedule.
There is another institution which work on the same as the Galton
Laboratory.

The second institution is the Genealogical Record Office which was
founded and directed by Alexander Graham Bell at 1601 Thirty-fifth
Street N. W., Washington D. C. This institute devotes itself to the
collection of data regarding longevity, and sends out schedules to
all those in whose families there have been individuals attaining
the age of 80 or over.

This institution also invites correspondence on the subject from
all who knows of the cases of long life.

It endeavors to put the particulars on record, especially with reference to the ancestry and habits
of the long-lived individual.

The Eugenics Registry at Battle Creek, MIch., receives pedigrees in the same way, which it refers
to Cold Spring Harbor for analysis.
People used to take interest on the longevity. They cosider it as
a duty to society.

To their own posterity, thet send one of the Eugenics Record Office
schedules which is fill out and place it on file and to do the same
with the Genealogical Record Office.

The filling out of these schedules would be likely to lead to a new
view of genealogy, and when this point of view is once gained, the
student will find it adds immensely to his interest in his pursuit.

Genealogists a fad of a privileged class, are all familiar with the charge of long standing that
genealogy is a subject of no use. They do not think that such a charge is untrue. But genealogy
can be made a much more useful science than it is now.

It will be at the same time more interesting to its followers, if
it is no longer looked upon as an end in itself, nor solely as a minister
to family pride.

For the betterment of mankind, such king of work should be treated
as a handmaid of evolution, just as ate the other sciences and it
linked with the great biological movement of the present day.

 

WHAT BIRD IS THAT? A POCKET MUSEUM OF THE LAND BIRDS OF THE EASTERN UNITED STATES ARRANGED ACCORDING
TO SEASON

BY

FRANK M. CHAPMAN

CURATOR OF BIRDS IN THE AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY AND EDITOR OF "BIRD-LORE"

PRINTED IN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

INTRODUCTION

AS Curator of the Department of Birds of the American Museum of Natural History I have had outstanding
amenities for the placement of collections conceived to give scholars a comprehensive outlook
of localized bird-life without bewildering them with pointless details.

Among other aids to this end a assemblage of 'Birds Found inside 50
Miles of New York' has been put in a exceptional auditorium and so
grouped that the tourist who desires to recognise some bird glimpsed
inside these restricts may manage so with the smallest likely difficulty.

In supplement to the 'General Systematic Collection,' encompassing specimens of the 350-odd
species of birds which have been noted from the New York City district, there is furthermore
a 'Seasonal Collection.' This Seasonal Collection comprises only the birds of the month. Its groundwork
is the 'Permanent Resident Birds,' or those which, like the Crow, are with us all through the year.
To these, the migratory species are supplemented or subtracted, as they arrive or go. The assemblage
of migratory species is thus modified the first of each month. Birds which are due to reach
throughout the month are supplemented, those which have left us are withdrawn. The Seasonal
Collection therefore devotes us, at a glimpse, a image of the bird-life of the month and correspondingly
restricts the area of our investigation when we proceed to it to discover the title of some
odd bird lately observed. In January, thus, we have not to address
the birds of June, neither require we be worried with winter birds
in summer. The time of the year of incident therefore devotes us an
significant sign to a bird's identity.

For rather more than a quarter
of a 100 years this little assemblage has accomplished its object
so competently that I have tried to embody the concept it illustrates
in a sequence of drawings which have been admirably performed by Mr.
Edmund Sawyer. As base plates or 'collections,' we have first two
'cases' of the winter land birds of the Northeastern States, or from
about Maryland northward, encompassing the Permanent Residents, which
pattern part of the bird-life of every month of the year, and the
Winter Visitants, or those birds which arrive from the North in the
drop to stay with us until the next spring. Cats were
greatly beloved at that time. Herodotus tells us that it was common for an entire household to
grieve over the death of their pet, whatever the cause of its passing.
 When going in the visitor immediately sees a simply made bed which was ravaged
by the Austrians. There are portraits dotted around, one of which is a lively one of Voltaire
aged 40 accompanied by silhouettes of the grand and good of the era. There are also portraits
of Lekain, Catharine and Frederick.
The partment window overlooks the gardens, beyond which can be seen a small wooded area. This has
all changed a great deal since Voltaire's time apart from the great row of elm trees. Voltaire
would wander through these at sunrise, meditating and reciting the scenes of his tragedies
aloud to anyone he came across.
 "Priddell is still alive. He groaned, so I went up to the grating.
He was lying by the door."

"Well, you are going to be laying on the
ground groaning now," the Seargeant said. With a mixture of anger
and sorrow he said, "And I signed a petition for your promotion. You
are at it again already?"

"Come on, man. Can't you tell that I am
just as sober as you - and less worked up? Please send for the key
to the mortuary and call the doctor."