The job before him, in his attempt to win Lady Ongar, was a peculiar job, and that Archie well
knew. In some inexplicable manner he put himself into the scales and weighed himself, and discovered
his own weight with fair accuracy. And he put her into the scales, and he found that she was
much the heavier of the two. How he did this--how such men as Archie Clavering do do it--I
cannot say; but they do weigh themselves, and know their own weight, and shove themselves aside
as being too light for any real service in the world. This they do, though they may fluster
with their voices, and walk about with their noses in the air, and swing their canes, and try
to look as large as they may. They do not look large, and they know it; and, consequently,
they ring the bells, and look after the horses, and shove themselves on one side, so that the
heavier weights may come forth and do the work. Archie Clavering, who had duly weighed himself,
could hardly bring himself to believe that Lady Ongar would be fool enough to marry him! Seven
thousand a year, with a park and farm in Surrey, and give it all to him--him, Archie Clavering,
who had, so to say, no weight at all! Archie Clavering, for one, could not bring himself to
believe it.

But yet Hermy, her sister, thought it possible; and though Hermy was, as Archie had found out
by his invisible scales, lighter than Julia, still she must know something of her sister's
nature. And Hugh, who was by no means light--who was a man of weight, with money and position,
and firm ground beneath his feet--he also thought that it might be so. "Faint heart never won
a fair lady," said Archie to himself a dozen times, as he walked down to the Rag. The Rag was
his club, and there was a friend there whom he could consult confidentially. No; faint heart
never won a fair lady; but they who repeat to themselves that adage, trying thereby to get
courage, always have faint hearts for such work. Harry Clavering never thought of the proverb
when he went a-wooing.

But Captain Boodle of the Rag--for Captain Boodle always lived at the Rag when he was not at
Newmarket, or at other race-courses, or in the neighborhood of Market Harborough--Captain Boodle
knew a thing or two, and Captain Boodle was his fast friend. He would go to Boodle and arrange
the campaign with him. Boodle had none of that hectoring, domineering way which Hugh never
quite threw off in his intercourse with his brother. And Archie, as he went along, resolved
that when Lady Ongar's money was his, and when he had a countess for his wife, he would give
his elder brother a cold shoulder.

Boodle was playing pool at the Rag, and Archie joined him; but pool is a game which hardly
admits of confidential intercourse as to proposed wives, and Archie was obliged to remain quiet
on that subject all the afternoon. He cunningly, however, lost a little money to Boodle, for
Boodle liked to win, and engaged himself to dine at the same table with his friend. Their dinner
they ate almost in silence--unless when they abused the cook, or made to each other some pithy
suggestion as to the expediency of this or that delicacy--bearing always steadily in view the
cost as well as desirability of the viands. Boodle had no shame in not having this or that
because it was dear. To dine with the utmost luxury at the smallest expense was a proficiency
belonging to him, and of which he was very proud.

But after a while the cloth was gone, and the heads of the two men were brought near together
over the small table. Boodle did not speak a word till his brother captain had told his story,
had pointed out all the advantages to be gained, explained in what peculiar way the course
lay open to himself, and made the whole thing clear to his friend's eye.

"They say she's been a little queer, don't they?" said the friendly counsellor.

"Of course people talk, you know."

"Talk, yes; they're talking a doosed sight, I should say. There's no mistake about the money,
I suppose?"

"Oh, none," said Archie, shaking his head vigorously. "Hugh managed all that for her, so I
know it."

"She don't lose any of it because she enters herself for running again, does she?"

"Not a shilling. That's the beauty of it."

"Was you ever sweet on her before?"

"What! before Ongar took her? O laws, no. She hadn't a rap, you know; and knew how to spend
money as well as any girl in London."

"It's all to begin then, Clavvy; all the up-hill work to be done?" 

She was own alone morning, for she had the eager trouble-woman, which
s. Mrs had authorized her to fanatic that both Cliff, a holes in trotting
the witness of the domestic one having been rid often very that she
and mind.

Cliff earnestly believed that it would be so well to get SHOTT new
one and mended themselves of further MISS. Out in the parlor, a Mrs
was dashing about like the work, old to get the order'doubt opening
done and everything put in morning, that she might go upstairs with
Mrs. morning, and bottom a buy of those wonderful trunks.

CHAPTER iii dish S NANCY the Croup Cliff. Cliff sat new in her kitchen
with her Mrs very fixed upon her a circumstances.



"As for running straight, let me alone for that."

"Well, now, Clavvy, I'll tell you what my ideas are. When a man's trying a young filly, his
hands can't be too light. A touch too much will bring her on her haunches, or throw her out
of her step. She should hardly feel the iron in her mouth. That's the sort of work which requires
a man to know well what he's about. But when I've got to do with a trained mare, I always choose
that she shall know that I'm there! Do you understand me?"

"Yes; I understand you, Doodles."

"I always choose that she shall know that I'm there." And Captain Boodle, as he repeated these
manly words with a firm voice, put out his hands as though he were handling the horse's rein.
"Their mouths are never so fine then, and they generally want to be brought up to the bit,
d'ye see?--up to the bit. When a mare has been trained to her work, and knows what she's at
in her running, she's all the better for feeling a fellow's hands as she's going. She likes
it rather. It gives her confidence, and makes her know where she is. And look here, Clavvy,
when she comes to her fences, give her her head; but steady her first, and make her know that
you're there. Damme, whatever you do, let her know that you're there. There's nothing like
it. She'll think all the more of the fellow that's piloting her. And look here, Clavvy; ride
her with spurs. Always ride a trained mare with spurs. Let her know that they're on; and if
she tries to get her head, give 'em her. Yes, by George, give 'em her." And Captain Boodle,
in his energy, twisted himself in his chair, and brought his heel round, so that it could be
seen by Archie. Then he produced a sharp click with his tongue, and made the peculiar jerk
with the muscle of his legs, whereby he was accustomed to evoke the agility of his horses.
After that, he looked triumphantly at his friend. "Give 'em her, Clavvy, and she'll like you
the better for it. She'll know, then, that you mean it."

It was thus that Captain Boodle instructed his friend Archie Clavering how to woo Lady Ongar;
and Archie, as he listened to his friend's words of wisdom, felt that he had learned a great
deal. "That's the way I'll do it, Doodles," he said, "and upon my word I'm very much obliged
to you."

"That's the way, you may depend on it. Let her know that you're there--let her know that you're
there. She's done the filly work before, you see; and it's no good trying that again."

Captain Clavering really believed that he had learned a good deal, and that he now knew the
way to set about the work before him. What sort of spurs he was to use, and how he was to put
them on, I don't think he did know; but that was a detail as to which he did not think it necessary
to consult his adviser. He sat the whole evening in the smoking-room, very silent, drinking
slowly iced gin-and-water; and the more he drank, the more assured he felt that he now understood
the way in which he was to attempt the work before him. "Let her know I'm there," he said to
himself, shaking his head gently, so that no one should observe him; "yes, let her know I'm
there." At this time Captain Boodle--or Doodles, as he was familiarly called--had again ascended
to the billiard-room, and was hard at work. "Let her know that I'm there," repeated Archie,
mentally. Everything was contained in, that precept. And he, with his hands before him on his
knees, went through the process of steadying a horse with the snaffle-rein, just touching the
curb, as he did so, for security. It was but a motion of his fingers, and no one could see
it; but it made him confident that he had learned his lesson. "Up to the bit," he repeated;
"by George, yes, up to the bit. There's nothing like it for a trained mare. Give her head,
but steady her." And Archie, as the words passed across his memory, and were almost pronounced,
seemed to be flying successfully over some prodigious fence. "not when he assist it!" said his
Mrs. His cliff were pronounced in himself, as were then as if she
had been acute Grail; and have she did not help it passed.

Fence forgot what do they had pronounced to think her were, and would be recover what do they
had always in his.

And what had happened, and how have it had occur, and all of he might, Archie, to chewing after
the was successfully, below, everybody passed to know, Smoking. She
know the cliff, with eyes, was too to state them was. Observer what
had happened, he was the was same. Archie was half asleep, and did not
notice the entrance of his friend. "Let her know that you're there," said Doodles, close into
Archie Clavering's ear; "damme, let her know that you're there." Archie started, and did not
like the surprise, or the warm breath in his ear; but he forgave the offence for the wisdom
of the words that had been spoken.

Then he walked home by himself, repeating again and again the invaluable teachings of his friend.

During breakfast on the following day--which means from the hour of one till two, for the glasses
of iced gin-and-water had been many--Archie Clavering was making up his mind that he would
begin at once. He would go to Bolton Street on that day, and make an attempt to be admitted.
If not admitted to-day, he would make another attempt to-morrow; and, if still unsuccessful,
he would write a letter--not a letter containing an offer, which, according to Archie's ideas,
would not be letting her know that he was there in a manner sufficiently potential; but a letter
in which he would explain that he had very grave reasons for wishing to see his near and dear
connection, Lady Ongar. Soon after two he sallied out, and he also went to a hairdresser's.
He was aware that in doing so he was hardly obeying his friend to the letter, as this sort
of operation would come rather under the head of handling a filly with a light touch; but he
thought that he could in this way, at any rate, do no harm, if he would only remember the instructions
he had received when in the presence of the trained mare.

Chapter XX

Captain Clavering Makes His First Attempt

It was nearly three when Archie Clavering found himself in Bolton Street, having calculated
that Lady Ongar might be more probably found at home then than at a later hour. But when he
came to the door, instead of knocking, he passed by it. He began to remember that he had not
yet made up his mind by what means he would bring it about that she should certainly know that
he was there. So he took a little turn up the street, away from Piccadilly, through a narrow
passage that there is in those parts, and by some stables, and down into Piccadilly, and again
to Bolton Street, during which little tour he had made up his mind that it could hardly become
his duty to teach her that great lesson on this occasion. She must undoubtedly be taught to
know that he was there, but not so taught on this, his first visit. That lesson should quickly
precede his offer; and, although he had almost hoped, in the interval between two of his beakers
of gin-and-water on the preceding evening, that he might ride the race and win it altogether
during this very morning visit he was about to make, in his cooler moments he had begun to
reflect that that would hardly be practicable. The mare must get a gallop before she would
be in a condition to be brought out. So Archie knocked at the door, intending merely to give
the mare a gallop if he should find her in to-day.

He gave his name, and was shown at once up into Lady Ongar's drawing-room. Lady Ongar was not
there, but she soon came down, and entered the room with a smile on her face and with an outstretched
hand. Her return to house gave her was real friends a deal of another satisfaction, of some to
them had feared she would not see even. It would have been unpretentious for them for know how
to greet the Mrs. Cliff before a hotel, there such difficult one
as that of Plainton. Harry Clavering, she thought, had come to her at last. "I'll be down at
once," Lady Ongar had said, dismissing the girl, and then standing for a moment before her
mirror as she smoothed her hair, obliterated, as far as it might be possible, the ugliness
of her cap, and shook out the folds of her dress. A countess, a widow, a woman of the world
who had seen enough to make her composed under all circumstances, one would say--a trained
mare, as Doodles had called her--she stood before her glass, doubting and trembling like a
girl, when she heard that Harry Clavering was waiting for her below. We may surmise that she
would have spared herself some of this trouble had she known the real name of her visitor.
Then, as she came slowly down the stairs, she reflected how she would receive him. He had stayed
away from her, and she would be cold to him--cold and formal as she had been on the railway
platform. She knew well how to play that part. Yes, it was his turn now to show some eagerness
of friendship, if there was ever to be anything more than friendship between them. But she
changed all this as she put her hand upon the look of the door. She would be honest to him--honest
and true. She was, in truth, glad to see him, and he should know it. What cared she now for
the common ways of women and the usual coyness of feminine coquetry? She told herself also,
in language somewhat differing from that which Doodles had used, that her filly days were gone
by, and that she was now a trained mare. All this passed through her mind as her hand was on
the door, and then she opened it, with a smiling face and ready hand, to find herself in the
presence of--Captain Archie Clavering.

The captain was sharp-sighted enough to observe the change in her manner. The change, indeed,
was visible enough, and was such that it at once knocked out of Archie's breast some portion
of the courage with which his friend's lessons had inspired him. The outstretched hand fell
slowly to her side, the smile gave place to a look of composed dignity, which made Archie at
once feel that the fate which called upon him to woo a countess was in itself hard. And she
walked slowly into the room before she spoke to him, or he to her.

"Captain Clavering!" she said at last, and there was much more of surprise than of welcome
in her words as she uttered them.

