"Friend--stranger--look at me!  Life is easy to you--you go about, placid and content, as I
did once, in my day--you have been in there, and eaten your sumptuous supper, and picked your
teeth, and hummed your tune, and thought your pleasant thoughts, and said to yourself it is
a good world --but you've never suffered!  You don't know what trouble is--you don't know what
misery is--nor hunger!  Look at me!  Stranger have pity on a poor friendless, homeless dog!
As God is my judge, I have not tasted food for eight and forty hours!--look in my eyes and
see if I lie!  Give me the least trifle in the world to keep me from starving--anything --twenty-five
cents! The wood, in my "other England's Prospect" (ch. 2), says: "their only butter and my cheese were
corrupted." Bradford mentions that their lunch of November 15, on Cod, and it included "Hollands
cheese," which receives also new mention.  I am famishing --perishing--starving
by inches!  For God's sake don't desert me!"

Blucher was bewildered--and touched, too--stirred to the depths.  He reflected.  Thought again.
Then an idea struck him, and he said:

"Come with me."

He took the outcast's arm, walked him down to Martin's restaurant, seated him at a marble table,
placed the bill of fare before him, and said:

"Order what you want, friend.  Charge it to me, Mr. Martin."

"All right, Mr. Blucher," said Martin.

Then Blucher stepped back and leaned against the counter and watched the man stow away cargo
after cargo of buckwheat cakes at seventy-five cents a plate; cup after cup of coffee, and
porter house steaks worth two dollars apiece; and when six dollars and a half's worth of destruction
had been accomplished, and the stranger's hunger appeased, Blucher went down to French Pete's,
bought a veal cutlet plain, a slice of bread, and three radishes, with his dime, and set to
and feasted like a king!

Take the episode all around, it was as odd as any that can be culled from the myriad curiosities
of Californian life, perhaps.

CHAPTER LX.

By and by, an old friend of mine, a miner, came down from one of the decayed mining camps of
Tuolumne, California, and I went back with him. We lived in a small cabin on a verdant hillside,
and there were not five other cabins in view over the wide expanse of hill and forest.  Yet
a flourishing city of two or three thousand population had occupied this grassy dead solitude
during the flush times of twelve or fifteen years before, and where our cabin stood had once
been the heart of the teeming hive, the centre of the city.  When the mines gave out the town
fell into decay, and in a few years wholly disappeared--streets, dwellings, shops, everything--and
left no sign.  The grassy slopes were as green and smooth and desolate of life as if they had
never been disturbed.  The mere handful of miners still remaining, had seen the town spring
up spread, grow and flourish in its pride; and they had seen it sicken and die, and pass away
like a dream.  With it their hopes had died, and their zest of life.  They had long ago resigned
themselves to their exile, and ceased to correspond with their distant friends or turn longing
eyes toward their early homes.  They had accepted banishment, forgotten the world and been
forgotten of the world.  They were far from telegraphs and railroads, and they stood, as it
were, in a living grave, dead to the events that stirred the globe's great populations, dead
to the common interests of men, isolated and outcast from brotherhood with their kind. It was
the most singular, and almost the most touching and melancholy exile that fancy can imagine.