The bride continues: "The flashes of love are flashes of fire, a very flame of the LORD." It
is worthy of note that this is the only occurrence of this word "LORD" in this book. But how
could it be omitted here? For love is of GOD, and GOD is love.

The love which grace has begotten in the heart of the bride is itself divine and persistent;
many waters cannot quench it, nor the floods drown it. Suffering and pain, bereavement and
loss may test its constancy, but they will not quench it. Our love to GOD is secured by GOD'S
love to us. To the soul really rescued by grace, no bribe to forsake GOD'S love will be finally
successful. "If a man would give all the substance of his house for love, it would utterly
be contemned."

Freed from anxiety on her own account, the happy bride next asks guidance, and fellowship in
service with her LORD, on behalf of those who have not yet reached her favoured position.

          We have a little sister,
          And she hath no breasts:
          What shall we do for our sister
          In the day when she shall be spoken for?

How beautifully her conscious union with the Bridegroom appears in her expressions. "We have
a little sister," not I have, etc.; "what shall we do for our sister," etc.? She has now no
private relationships nor interests; in all things she is one with Him. And we see a further
development of grace in the very question. Towards the close of the last section she recognized
the Bridegroom as her Instructor. She will not now make her own plans about her little sister,
and ask His acquiescence in them; she will rather learn what his thoughts are, and have fellowship
with Him in His plans.

How much anxiety and care the children of GOD would be spared if they learned to act in this
way! Is it not too common to make the best plans that we can, and to carry them out as best
we may, feeling all the while a great burden of responsibility, and earnestly asking the LORD
to help us? Whereas if we always let Him be our Instructor in service, and left the responsibility
with Him, our strength would not be exhausted with worry and anxiety, but would all be at His
disposal, and accomplish His ends.

In the little sister, as yet immature, may we not see the elect of GOD, given to CHRIST in
GOD'S purpose, but not yet brought into saving relation to Him? And perhaps also those babes
in CHRIST who as yet need feeding with milk and not with meat, but who, with such care, will
in due time become experienced believers, fitted for the service of the LORD? Then they will
be spoken for, and called into that department of service for which He has prepared them.

The Bridegroom replies:--

          If she be a wall,
          We will build upon her battlements of silver;
          And if she be a door,
          We will inclose her with boards of cedar.

In this reply the Bridegroom sweetly recognizes His oneness with His bride, in the same way
as she has shown her conscious oneness with Him. As she says, "What shall we do for our sister?"
so He replies, "We will build . . . we will inclose," etc. He will not carry out His purposes
of grace irrespective of His bride, but will work with and through her. What can be done for
this sister, however, will depend upon what she becomes. If she be a wall, built upon the true
foundation, strong and stable, she shall be adorned and beautified with battlements of silver;
but if unstable and easily moved to and fro like a door, such treatment will be as impossible
as unsuitable; she will need to be inclosed with boards of cedar, hedged in with restraints,
for her own protection.

