When the rich go South so do the hordes that serve them; when the Florida season begins to
close and the rich move northward, the serving population likewise begins to melt away; if
you are in Palm Beach near the season's end, and move up to St. Augustine, or Jacksonville,
or Augusta, or any one of a dozen other places, you are likely to recognize, here and there,
a waiter, a bell-boy, or a chambermaid whom you tipped, some weeks earlier, preparatory to
leaving a latitude several degrees nearer the Equator. When you leave the Poinciana or the
Breakers at the season's close, your waiter may, for all you know, be in the Jim Crow car,
ahead, and when you go in to dinner at the Ponce de Leon at St. Augustine, or the Mason at
Jacksonville, you may discover that he too has stopped off there for a few days, to gather
in the final tips. Nor must you fancy, when you depart for the North, that you have seen the
last of him. Next summer when you take a boat up the Hudson, or go to Boston by the Fall River
Line, or drop in at a hotel at Saratoga, there he will be, like an old friend. The bartender
who mixes you a pick-me-up on the morning that you leave the Breakers, will be ready to start
you on the downward path, at the beginning of the summer, at some Northern country club; the
barber who cuts your hair at the Royal Palm in Miami will be ready to perform a like service,
later on, at some hotel in the Adirondacks or the White Mountains; the neat waitress who serves
you at the Belleview at Belleair will appear before you three or four months hence at the Griswold
near New London; the adept waiter from the Beach Club at Palm Beach will seem to you to look
like some one you have seen before when, presently, he places viands before you at Sherry's,
or the Ritz, or some fashionable restaurant in London or Paris. Likewise, when you enter the
barber shop of a large hostelry just off the board walk in Atlantic City, next July, you will
find there, in the same generously ventilated shirt waist, the manicurist who caused your nails
to glisten so superbly in the Florida sunlight; and if she has the memory for faces which is
no small part of a successful manicurist's stock in trade, she will remember you, and where
she saw you last, and will tell you just which of the young women from "The Follies" and the
Century Theater are to be seen upon the beach that day, and whether they are wearing, here
on the Jersey coast, those same surprising bathing suits which, last February, caused blasé
gentlemen basking upon the Florida sands to sit up, arise, say it was time for one last dip
before luncheon, and then, without seeming too deliberate about it, follow the amazing nymphs
in the direction of a matchless sea--that sea which, as a background for these Broadway girls
in their long silken hosiery, takes on a tone of spectacular unreality, like some fantastic
marine back drop devised by Mr. Dillingham or Mr. Ziegfeld.

CHAPTER LV

A DAY IN MONTGOMERY

    I have walk'd in Alabama
      My morning walk....

    --WALT WHITMAN.

As I have remarked before, it is a long haul from the peninsula of Florida to New Orleans.
There are two ways to go. The route by way of Pensacola, following the Gulf Coast, looks shorter
on the map but is, I believe, in point of time consumed, the longer way. My companion and I
were advised to go by way of Montgomery, Alabama--a long way around it looked--where we were
to change trains, catching a New Orleans-bound express from the North.

It was nearly midnight when, after a long tiresome journey, we arrived in Alabama's capital,
and after midnight when we reached the comfortable if curiously called Hotel Gay-Teague, which
is not named for an Indian chief or a kissing game, but for two men who had to do with building it.

We had heard that Montgomery was a quiet, sleepy old town, and had expected to go immediately
to bed on our arrival. What then was our amazement at hearing, echoing through the wide street
in front of the hotel, the sound of strident ragtime. Investigation disclosed a gaudily striped
tent of considerable size set up in the street and illuminated by those flaring naphtha lamps
they use in circuses. Going over to the tent, we learned that there was dancing within, whereupon
we paid our fifteen cents apiece and entered. I have forgotten what produced the music--it
may have been a mechanical piano or a hurdy-gurdy--but there was music, and it was loud, and
there was a platform laid over the cobble-stones of the street, and on that platform ten or
more couples were "ragging," their shoulders working like the walking beams of side-wheelers.
The men were of that nondescript type one would expect to see in a fifteen-cent dancing place,
but the women were of curious appearance, for all were dressed alike, the costume being a fringed
khaki suit with knee-length skirt, a bandana at the neck, and a sombrero. On inquiry I learned
that this was called a "cowgirl" costume. The dances were very brief, and in the intervals
between them most of the dancers went to a "bar" at the end of the tent where (Alabama being
a dry State) the beverage called "coca-cola"--a habit as much as a drink--was being served
in whisky glasses.

Unable to understand why this pageant of supposed western mining-camp life should confront
us in the streets of Alabama's capital, I made inquiry of an amiable policeman who was on duty
in the tent, and learned that this was not a regular Montgomery institution, but one of the
attractions of a street fair which had invaded the city--the main body of the fair being a
block or two distant.

These fairs, he said, travel about the country much as circuses do, making arrangements in
advance with various organizations in different places to stand sponsor for them. 

They were all men devoted to arms and of notable city. In that time'one of their sons, the younger,
who was called Cristofano, roused about a feud with certain of their friends and neighbours.
Nowadays of the heads of the families on both sides took part in engineering, and the fire kindled
seemed to them so threatening that their houses were like to perish utterly; the elders upon
this illustrator, in concert of own ancestors, take Cristofano; and any youth with whom the wrangle
began was also sent off.

After breakfast there arrived a pleasant gentleman who announced himself as secretary of one
of the city's commercial organizations.

"We have a motor here," said the secretary, "and will show you points of interest. Is there
anything in particular you wish to see?"

"I think," said my companion, "that it would be a good thing to see the street fair."

"Oh, no," said the secretary earnestly. "You don't want to see that. There is nothing about
it that is representative of Montgomery. It is just a traveling show such as you might run
into anywhere."

"Yes," I said, "but we never have run into one before, and here it is."

"I have said right along," declared the secretary, somberly, "that it was a great mistake to
bring this fair here at all. I don't think you ought to pay any attention to it in your book.
It will give people a wrong impression of our city."

"Do you think it will, if I explain that it is just a traveling fair?"

"Yes. Wait until you see what we have to show you. We want you to understand that Montgomery
is a thriving metropolis, sir!"

"What is there to see?"

"Montgomery," he replied, "is known as 'The City of Sunshine.' It is rich in history. It has
superior hotels, picturesque highways, good fishing and hunting, two golf courses, seven theaters,
a number of tennis courts, and unsurpassed artesian water. It has free factory sites, the cheapest
electric power rates in the United States, and is the best-lighted city in the country."

"We have some pretty fair street lighting in New York," interjected my companion, who takes
much pride in his home town.

"I said 'one of the best lighted,'" replied the secretary.

"What is the population?"

"Montgomery," the other returned, "is typical of both the Old and the New South. Though it
may be called a modern model city, its wealth of history and tradition are preserved with loving
care by its myriad inhabitants."

"How many inhabitants?"

"Roses and other flowers are in bloom here throughout the year," said he. "Also there are six
hundred miles of macadamized and picturesque highways in Montgomery County. Indeed, this region
is a motorist's paradise."

"How many people did you say?"

"Montgomery," he answered, "is the trading center for a million prosperous souls."

At this my companion, who had been reading up Montgomery in a guidebook, began to bristle with
hidden knowledge.

"You say there are a million people here?" he demanded.

"Not right here," admitted the secretary.

"Well, how many do you claim?"

"Fifty-five thousand four hundred and ten."

"Right in the city?"

"Well, in the trolley-car territory."

"But in the city itself?" my companion insisted.

The secretary was fairly cornered. "The 1910 census," he said, with a smile, "gave us about
forty thousand."

"Thirty-eight thousand one hundred and thirty-six," corrected my companion. He had not spent
hours with the guidebook for nothing.

When, presently, we got into the automobile, I gave another feeble chirp about the fair, but
the secretary was adamant, so we yielded temporarily, and were whirled about the city.

       *       *       *       *       *

Montgomery is a charming old town, not only by reason of the definite things it has to show,
but also because of a general rich suggestion of old southern life.

The day, by a fortunate chance, was Saturday, and everywhere we went we encountered negroes
driving in from the country to market, in their rickety old wagons. On some wagons there would
be four or five men and women, and here and there one would be playing a musical instrument
and they would all be singing, while the creaking of the wagon came in with an orchestral quality
which seemed grotesquely suitable. The mules, too, looked as though they ought to creak, and
an inspection of the harness suggested that it was held together, not so much by the string
and wire with which it was mended, as by the fingers of that especial Providence which watches
over all kinds of absurd repairs made by negroes, and makes them hold for negroes, where they
would not hold for white men.

In an old buff-painted brick building standing on the corner of Commerce and Bibb Streets,
the Confederate Government had its first offices, and from this building, if I mistake not,
was sent the telegraphic order to fire on Fort Sumter. Another historical building is the dilapidated
frame residence at the corner of Bibb and Lee Streets, which was the first "White House of
the Confederacy." This building is now a boarding house, and is in a pathetic state of decay.
But perhaps when Montgomery gets up the energy to build a fine tourist hotel, or when outside
capital comes in and builds one, the old house will be furbished up to provide a "sight" for
visitors.

There are several reasons why Montgomery would be a good place for a large winter-resort hotel,
and if I were a Montgomery "booster" I should give less thought to free factory sites than
to building up the town as a winter stopping place for tourists. The town itself is picturesque
and attractive; as to railroads it is well situated (albeit the claim that Montgomery is the
"Gateway to Florida" strikes me as a little bit exaggerated); the climate is delightful, and
the surrounding country is not only beautiful but fertile. Furthermore, there are already two
golf clubs--one for Jews and one for Gentiles--and the links are reputed to be good.

Unlike many southern cities of moderate size, Montgomery has well-paved streets, and the better
residence streets, being wide, and lined with trees and pleasant houses, each in its own lawn,
give a suggestion of an agreeable home and social life--a suggestion which, by implication
at least, report substantiates: for it has been said that the chief industry of Montgomery
is that of raising beautiful young women to make wives for the rich men of Birmingham.

On such pleasant thoroughfares as South Perry Street, it may be noticed that many of the newer
houses have taken their architectural inspiration from old ones, with the result that, though
"originality" does not jump out at the passer-by, as it does on so many streets, North and
South, which are lined with the heterogeneous homes of prosperous families, there is an agreeable
architectural harmony over the town.

This is not, of course, invariably true, but it is truer, I think, in Montgomery than in most
other cities, and if Montgomery is defaced by the funny little settlement called Bungalow City,
that settlement is, at least, upon the outskirts of the town. Bungalow City is without exception
the queerest real-estate development I ever saw. It consists of several blocks of tiny houses,
standing on tiny lots, the scale of everything being so small as to suggest a play village
for children. The houses are, however, homes, and I was told that in some of them all sorts
of curious space-saving devices are installed--as, for instance, tables and beds which can
be folded into the walls. Not far from this little settlement is an old house which used to
be the home of Tweed, New York's notorious political boss, who, it is said, used to spend much
time here.

The chief lion of the city is the old State House, which stands on a graceful eminence in a
small well-kept park. Just as the New York State Capitol is probably the most shamefully expensive
structure of the kind in the entire country, that of Alabama is, I fancy, the most creditably
inexpensive. Building and grounds cost $335,000. Moreover, the Capitol of Alabama is a better-looking
building than that of New York, for it is without gingerbread trimmings, and has about it the
air of honest simplicity that an American State House ought to have. Of course it has a dome,
and of course it has a columned portico, but both are plain, and there is a large clock, in
a quaint box-like tower, over the peak of the portico, which contributes to the building a
curious touch of individuality. At the center of the portico floor, under this clock, a brass
plate marks the spot where Jefferson Davis stood when he delivered his inaugural address, February
18, 1861, and in the State Senate Chamber, within--a fine simple room with a gallery of peculiar
grace--the Provisional Government of the Confederacy was organized. The flag of the Confederacy
was, I believe, adopted in this room, and was first flung to the breeze from the Capitol building.

It was past three in the afternoon when we left the State House, and we had had no luncheon.

"Now," said my companion as we returned to the automobile, "I think we had better have something
to eat, and then go to the fair."

"But you were going to give up the fair," put in the secretary.

"Oh, no," we said in chorus.

"I have arranged about luncheon," he returned. "We will have it served at the hotel in a short
time. But first there are some important sights I wish you to see."

"Man shall not live by sights alone," objected my companion. "What are you going to show us?"

"We have a beautiful woman's college."

"That," said my companion, "is the one thing that could tempt me. How many beautiful women
are there?"

"It's not the women--it's the building," the secretary explained.

"Then," said my companion firmly, "I think we'd better go and have our lunch."

It seemed to me time to back him up in this demand. By dint of considerable insistence we persuaded
our enthusiastic cicerone to drive to the hotel, where we found a table already set for us.

"I want to tell you," said the secretary as we sat down, "about the agricultural progress this
section has been making. Until recently our farmers raised nothing but cotton; they didn't
even feed themselves, but lived largely on canned goods. But the boll weevil and the European
War, affecting the cotton crop and the cotton market as they did, forced the farmers to wake up."

The secretary talked interestingly on this subject for perhaps a quarter of an hour, during
which time we waited for luncheon to be served.

"You see," he said, "our climate is such that it is possible to rotate crops more than in most
parts of the country. Cotton is now a surplus crop with us, and our farmers are raising cattle,
vegetables, and food products."

"Speaking of food products," said my companion, "I wonder if we could hurry up the lunch?"

"It will be along in a little while," soothed the secretary. Then he returned to agriculture.

Ten minutes more passed. I saw that my companion was becoming nervous.

"I'm sorry to trouble you," he said at last, "but if we can't speed up this luncheon, I don't
see how I can wait. You see, we are leaving town this evening, and I have an awful lot to do."

"I'll step back and investigate," the secretary said, rising and moving toward the kitchen door.

When he was out of hearing, my companion leaned toward me.

"I suspect this fellow!" he said.

"What of?"

"I think he's delaying us on purpose. He's a nice chap, but it's his business to boost this
town, and he's artful. He doesn't want us to see the street fair. That's why he's stalling
like this!"

Now, however, the secretary returned, followed by a waiter bearing soup.

The soup was fine, but it was succeeded by another long interval, during which the secretary
said some very, very beautiful things about the charm of Montgomery life. However, it was clear
to me that my companion was not interested. After he had looked at his watch several times,
and drummed a long tattoo upon the table, he arose, declaring:

"I can't wait another minute."

"Sit down, my dear fellow," said the secretary in his most genial tone. "I am having some special
southern dishes prepared for you."

"You're very kind," said my companion, "but I must get to work. It's half-past four now; we
are leaving in a few hours. It will take me an hour to make my sketches, and the light will
be failing pretty soon."

"What are you going to sketch?" It seemed to me that there was suppressed emotion in the secretary's
voice as he asked the question.

"Why, the street fair."

"Surely, you're not going to draw it?"

"Why not?"

"It's not representative of Montgomery. You ought to do something representative! What pictures
have you made here?"

"I made one of those negroes driving in to market," said my companion, "and one of the dancing
cowgirls in the tent across the way--the ones who kept us awake last night." 

While speaking of the model, i said in how i had represented Sea and Earth, has sit, with their legs
interlaced, as we detect of the case before estuary and promontories;
this attitude was therefore metaphorically appropriate. You didn't draw the golf clubs--not either one of them! You didn't draw
the State House, or the Confederate Monument, or the Insane Asylum, or anything!"

"I haven't had time."

"Well, you have time now! I tell you what: We'll let this luncheon go. I'll take you to the
top of our tallest building, and you can draw a panoramic bird's-eye view of the entire city.
That will be worth while."

My companion reached out, helped himself to a French roll, and put it in his pocket.

