Minneapolis and its twin-city St. Anthony each had a large first-class hotel, to which Southern
people resorted in summer, bringing their slaves, holding them often for months, and taking
them back to the South, no one daring to make objection; until one woman, Eliza Winston, appealed
to Mr. Babbitt, who took her into court, where Judge Vanderbilt decreed her freedom, on the
ground that her claimant had forfeited his title by bringing her into a free State.

At the rendering of this decree, Rev. Knickerbocker, rector of the only Protestant Episcopal
Church in the city, arose in open court, and charged the judge with giving an unrighteous judgment.
He condemned the law as at war with Scripture and the rights of the master, and its enforcement
as injurious to the best interests of the community. It was the old story of Demetrius; and
the people, already keenly alive to the profit of boarding Southern families with their servants,
were glad to have a mantle of piety thrown over their love of gain. The court room was packed,
and under the eloquent appeal of the reverend gentleman, it soon became evident the populace
would make a rush, take the woman out of the hands of the law, and deliver her to the master.

She and her friends had about lost hope, when an unlooked for diversion called attention from
them. The red head of "Bill King," afterwards post-master of the U.S. House of Representatives,
arose, like the burning bush at the foot of Mount Horeb, and his stentorian voice poured forth
such a torrent of denunciation on priest-craft, such a flood of solid swearing against the
insolence and tyranny of ecclesiasticism, that people were surprised into inactivity, until
Mr. Babbitt got the woman in his carriage and drove off with her.

There could no longer be a question of her legal right to her own body and soul; but her friends
knew that the law of freedom had lain too long dormant to be enforced now without further serious
opposition, and Mr. Babbitt brought into use his old training on the underground railroad to
throw the blood-hounds off the scent, so secreted the woman in the house of Prof. Stone, and
prepared his own strong residence to bear a siege. For that siege preparations were made by
the clerical party during the afternoon and evening, without any effort at concealment, and
to brute force the besieging party added brute cunning.

It was known that in my lecturing tours, I was often Mr. Babbitt's guest, and might arrive
at any hour. So, shortly after midnight, the doorbell was rung, when Mr. Babbitt inquired:

"Who is there?"

"Mrs. Swisshelm.'

"It is not Mrs. Swisshelm's voice?"

"William Griffin (a colored porter) is with her."

"It is not William Griffin's voice."

Then, for the first time, there were signs of a multitude on the porch, and with an oath the
speaker replied:

"We want that slave."

"You cannot have her."

A rush was made to burst in the door, but it was of solid walnut and would not yield, when
the assailants brought fenceposts to batter it in, and were driven back by a shot from a revolver
in the hall. The mob retired to a safer distance, and the leader--mine host of a first-class
hotel--mounted the carriage-block and harangued his followers on the sacred duty of securing
the financial prosperity of the two cities by restoring Eliza Winston to her owners, and made
this distinct declaration of principles:

"I came to this State with five thousand dollars; have but five hundred left, but will spend
the last cent to see 'Bill' Babbitt's heart's blood."

After which heroic utterance a fresh volley of stones and shots were fired, and fresh rush
made for doors and windows. The sidelights of the front door had been shattered, and one burly
ruffian thrust himself halfway in, but stuck, when a defender leveled a revolver at his head,
and said to Mrs. Babbitt, who was then in command of the hall, while her husband defended the
parlor windows:

"Shall I shoot him?"

"Yes, shoot him like a dog."

But Mrs. Edward Messer, her sister, who knew Mr. Babbitt's dread of taking life, knocked the
pistol up and struck the ruffian's head with a stick, when it was withdrawn, and again the
mob fell back and resorted to stones and sticks and oaths and howlings and gunshots, and threats
of firing the house.

Mrs. Babbitt thought that personal appeals might bring citizens to the rescue, and in an interval
of black darkness between lightning flashes, escaped through a back cellar way, and had almost
reached the shelter of a cornfield adjoining the garden, when the lightning revealed her and
three men started in pursuit. It was two months before the birth of one of her children, and
Mr. Elliott, a neighbor who was hastening to the rescue, saw her danger and ran to engage her
pursuers. Stumbling through the corn, he encountered one and cudgeled him, but all were separated
by the darkness. Mrs. Babbitt, however, succeeded in reaching the more thickly settled portion
of the city, and the first man she called upon for help, replied:

"You have made your bed--lie in it!"

The sheriff came, with two or three men, and talked to the mob, which dispersed before daylight,
with open threats to "have Babbitt's heart's blood," and for months his family lived in momentary
apprehension of his murder. For months he was hooted at in the streets of Minneapolis as "nigger
thief," and called "Eliza." No arrests were made, and he has always felt it fortunate that
Mrs. Messer prevented the shooting of the man in the side-light, as he thinks to this day that
in the state of public sentiment, the man firing the shot would have been hanged for murder
by any Hennepin county jury, and his home razed to the ground or burned.

Eliza Winston was sent by underground railroad to Canada, because Minnesota, in the year of
grace, 1860, could not or would not defend the freedom of one declared free by decision of
her own courts.

When such events were actual facts in '60, near the center of the State, under a Republican
administration, what was the condition of public sentiment in the northern portion of the territory
in '57, when there was scarce a pretense of law or order, and the Southern democracy held absolute
sway? I soon understood the situation; had known for years that the Southern threats, which
Northern men laughed at as "tin kettle thunder," were the desperate utterances of lawless men,
in firm alliance with the "Hierarchy of Rome for the overthrow of this Republic."

CHAPTER XXXVII.

ANOTHER VISITER.

George Brott was proprietor of lower St. Cloud and had started a paper, The Advertiser, to
invite immigration. There were two practical printers in town, both property-owners, both interested
in its growth, and when the resources of The Advertiser had been consumed and they had had
union rates for work done on it, they fell back on their dignity and did nothing. They had
enlisted in the wrong army, did not belong with this band of pioneers, making its way against
savage beasts and men. They were soldiers of a union whose interests were all opposed to those
of St. Cloud, so they were looking on, waiting to see if the great need of a paper would not
compel their neighbors to pay tribute to their union.

Mr. Brott asked me if I would take charge of a paper and take town lots for a salary. I told
him I was an abolitionist. He laughed, and said:

"A lady has a right to be of whatever politics she pleases," and went on to say, that if I
could recommend Minnesota to emigrants, and St. Cloud as a town site, he cared nothing for
my opinions on other points. He thought we might unite all the town proprietors, and so raise
money to pay the printers, so I wrote to each one, asking his support to the St. Cloud Visiter,
as an advertising medium. All, save Gen. Lowrie, were prompt in making favorable response;
but from him I had not heard, when there had been three issues of the paper. Mr. Brott was
in the office, and I said:

"There is one thing more. I feel that some day I will attack Gen. Lowrie, who is your friend.
He will set Shepley on me; I will make short work of him. Then we will have a general melee,
and I will clear out that clique. Shepley is your lawyer, and I do not want to use your press
in that way without your consent."

While I spoke, his jaw dropped and he sat staring at me in literal open-mouthed wonder, then
threw back his head, laughed heartily and said:

"Oh, go ahead! I bake no bread in any of their ovens!"

Very soon I had a letter from Gen. Lowrie, saying:

"I myself will give the St. Cloud Visiter a support second to that of no paper in the territory,
if it will support Buchanan's administration. Otherwise I can do nothing."

I had not finished reading, when the thought came: "Now I have you." Yet still I knew it looked
like, ah, very like a man catching a whale with a fish hook secured to his own person, when
there were a hundred chances to one that the whale had caught him. I replied that the St. Cloud
Visiter would support Mr. Buchanan's administration, since it could not live without Gen. Lowrie's
assistance, and such was his ultimatum.

On the second day after that contract was made, brother Harry came, all trembling with rage,
and said:

"Lowrie is telling all over town that he has bought you, and that the Visiter is to support
Buchanan!"

"It is true," was the astounding answer, when he said bad words, rushed from the room and slammed
the door. Then followed ten days, the only ones since he became my brother when he would not
call me "Sis." Elizabeth said:

"I would have seen Lowrie and his money in the bottom of the sea, first! What would mother say?"

The next issue of the Visiter made no allusion to its change of base, and there was plenty
of time to discuss the question. Those who knew my record refused to believe I had sold out,
and took bets on it. However, the next number contained an editorial which relieved the minds
of friends, but which created the gravest apprehension. It stated that the Visiter would, in
future, support Buchanan's administration, and went on to state the objects of that administration
as being the entire subversion of Freedom and the planting of Slavery in every State and Territory,
so that Toombs could realize his boast, and call the roll of his slaves at the foot of Bunker
Hill. It reminded its readers that John Randolph had said in the United States Senate when
speaking to Northern men:

"We have driven you to the wall, and will drive you there again, and next time we will keep
you there and nail you to the counter like base money."

Mr. Buchanan, a Northern man, had fulfilled the prediction. Henry Clay had said that Northern
workingmen were "mudsills, greasy mechanics and small-fisted farmers." These mudsills had been
talking of voting themselves farms; but it would be much more appropriate if they would vote
themselves masters. Southern laborers were blessed with kind masters, and Mr. Buchanan and
the St. Cloud Visiter were most anxious that Northern laborers should be equally well provided for.

When the paper was read, there was a cry of "Sold! Sold! Lowrie had sold himself instead of
buying the Visiter." At first there was a laugh, then a dead stillness of dread, and men looked
at me as one doomed.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

BORDER RUFFIANISM.

In Lowrie's first ebulition of wrath, he vowed vengeance, but an intimate friend of his, who
had been a Democrat in Pittsburg, begged him to do nothing and said:

"Let her alone, for God's sake! Let her alone, or she will kill you. I know her, and you do
not. She has killed every man she ever touched. Let her alone!"

But Lowrie knew it was too late for letting alone, and sent me a verbal message, by one he
knew I would believe, that I must stop or the consequences would be fatal. Stopping was no
part of my plan, and so I told his messenger.

The second number of Buchanan's organ explained how it was that I became a supporter of a policy
I had so long opposed. Gen. Lowrie owned Northern Minnesota, land and inhabitants, bought folks
up as fast as they came to it, and had bought me. He was going to support the Visiter great
power and glory, if it gave satisfaction as a democratic organ. I would work hard for the money,
and it would be odd if any one gave Mr. Buchanan a more enthusiastic support than I. Indeed,
I was his only honest supporter. All the others pretended he was going to do something quite
foreign to his purpose, while I was in his confidence. The one sole object of his administration
was the perpetuation and spread of slavery, and this object the Visiter would support with
the best arguments in its power.

This was vitriol dressing on a raw wound, and the suppression of the Visiter was expected by
Judge Lynch. Brave men held their breath to see me beard the lion in his den, not knowing my
armor as I did.

Then came an announcement with a great flourish of trumpets of a lecture on "Woman," by the
Hon. Shepley, the great legal light and democratic orator of Minnesota. The lecture was delivered
in due time to a densely packed house, and was as insulting as possible. The lecture divided
women into four classes--coquettes, flirts, totally depraved, and strong-minded. He painted
each class and found some redeeming trait in all save the last.

The speaker might as well have named me as the object of his attack, and his charges thus publicly
made were not to be misunderstood. At every point there were rounds and shouts of applause
by clacquers, and brother Harry once rose in a towering rage, but I dragged him down and begged
him to keep quiet.

In my review of the lecture, I praised it, commended its eloquence and points, but suggested
that the learned gentleman had not included all women in his classification. For instance,
he had left out the frontier belle who sat up all night playing cards with gentlemen; could
beat any man at a game of poker, and laugh loud enough to be heard above the roaring of a river.
In this I struck at gambling as a social amusement, which was then rapidly coming into fashion
in our little city, and which to me was new and alarming.

Mr. Shepley pretended to think that the picture resembled his wife, and this idea was seized
upon as drowning men catch at straws. Behind this they sought to conceal the whole significance
of the quarrel. Gen. Lowrie cared not for my attacks on himself. Oh, no, indeed! He was suddenly
seized by a fit of chivalry, and would defend to the death, a lady whom he had never seen.

An effort was made to dispose of me by mob, as a means of clearing the moral atmosphere of
the city. It was being discussed in a grocery while "Tom" Alden lay on the counter. He rose,
brought down his big fist, and with a preface of oaths, said:

"Now, boys, I tell you what it is. We're Democrats. This is a fight between her and Lowrie,
and we're going to see fair play. If she licks him, let him take it. No woman is going to be
mobbed in this city! So there!"

Gen. Lowrie hid an uncle who lived with him, a very eccentric, single-minded man, who was greatly
distressed about the affair, and who became a messenger bent on making peace. He begged me
to desist for Lowrie's sake, that I might not drive him to cover himself with shame, and bring
lasting regret. He insisted that I knew nothing of the dangers which environed me; I would
be secretly murdered, with personal indignities; would be tied to a log and set afloat on the
Mississippi. I had no wish to court danger--shrank from the thought of brute force; but if
I let this man escape, his power, now tottering, would be re-established; slavery triumphant
in the great Northwest; Minnesota confirmed a democratic strong-hold, sending delegates of
dough-faces to Congress to aid in the great conspiracy against the nation's life. So I told
the messenger that I would continue to support Buchanan's administration, that I would pile
my support upon it until it broke down under the weight and sunk into everlasting infamy.

The night after I had sent this, as my final answer to the offer of leniency, the Visiter was
visited by three men in the "wee sma' hours, anent the twal," the press broken, some of the
type thrown into the river, some scattered on the road, and this note left on the table:

"If you ever again attempt to publish a paper in St. Cloud, you yourself will be as summarily
dealt with as your office has been.----VIGILANCE."

The morning brought intense excitement and the hush of a great fear. Men walked down to the
bank of the great Mississippi, looked at the little wrecked office standing amid the old primeval
forest, as if it were a great battle-ground, and the poor little type were the bodies of the
valiant dead. They only spoke in whispers, and stood as if in expectation of some great event,
until Judge Gregory arrived, and said, calmly:

"Gentlemen, this is an outrage which must be resented. The freedom of the press must be established
if we do not want our city to become the center of a gang of rowdies who will drive all decent
people away and cut off immigration. I move that we call a public meeting at the Stearns House
this evening, to express the sentiments of the people at St. Cloud."

This motion was carried unanimously, but very quietly, and I said:

"Gentlemen, I will attend that meeting and give a history of this affair."

CHAPTER XXXIX.

SPEAK IN PUBLIC.

At length the time had come when I could no longer skulk behind a printing press. That bulwark
had been torn down, and now I must literally open my mouth for the dumb, or be one of those
dogs spoken of in Scripture who would not bark. The resolve to speak at that meeting had come
in an instant as a command not to be questioned, and I began to prepare. James McKelvey, a
lawyer, and nephew of my husband, drew my will and I executed it, settled my business and wrote
a statement of the Visiter trouble that it might live if I ceased to do so, then went to bed,
sent for Miles Brown to come to my room, and saw him alone.

He was a Pennsylvanian, who had the reputation of being a dead shot, and had a pair of fine
revolvers. He pledged himself solemnly to go with me and keep near me, and shoot me square
through the brain, if there was no other way of preventing me falling alive into the hands
of the mob. My mind was then at ease, and I slept until my mail was brought. In it was a letter
from William M. Shinn, saying that without his knowledge, my husband had succeeded in having
my one-third interest in the Swissvale estate sold at sheriff's sale, and had become the purchaser.
Mr. Shinn added his opinion that the sale was fraudulent, and proposed entering suit to have
it set aside; but I could attend to no suit and lost all hope of saving anything from my separate
estate. Surely the hand of the Lord lay heavily upon me that day, but I never doubted that
it was His hand. The Good Shepherd would lead me and feed me and I should know no want.

When it was time to go to the meeting, I was dressed by other hands than my own. I knew Harry
and my brother-in-law, Henry Swisshelm, had organized for defense, and asked no questions,
but went with them. Elizabeth carried her camphor bottle as coolly as if mobs and public meetings
were things of every day life, while Mrs. Hyke, a New England woman, held my arm, saying:

"We'll have a nice time in the river together, for I am going in with you. They can't separate us."

As we approached the Stearns House, the crowd thickened and pressed upon us. Harry stopped
and said:

"Gentlemen, stand back, if you please!"

The guard closed around me, every man with his hand on his revolver. There were oaths and growls,
but the mob gave way, and made no further opposition to our entrance.

The meeting was called to order by Thomas Stearns, the owner of the house and for whom the
county had been named, who with his brave wife had made every possible arrangement for the
meeting. The large parlors were packed with women, and every other foot of space downstairs
and even up, were filled with men, while around the house was a crowd. It was a wonder where
all the people could have come from. A rostrum had been erected at the end of the parlor next
the hall, but I had no sooner taken it than there was an ominous murmur outside, and it was
discovered that my head made a tempting target for a shot through the front door, so the rostrum
was moved out of range.

There was not much excitement until I named Gen. Lowrie and two other men as the persons who
had destroyed the Visiter office. Then there was a perfect howl of oaths and cat-calls. Gen.
Lowrie was on the ground himself, loading his forces outside. A rush was made, stones hurled
against the house, pistols fired, and every woman sprang to her feet, but it was to hear and
see, not shriek. Harry held the doorway into the hall; Henry that into the dining room. Brown
had joined Harry, and I said in a low, concentrated voice:

"Brown."

He turned and pressed up to the rostrum.

"Don't fail me! Don't leave me! Remember!"

"I remember! Don't be afraid! I'll do it! But I'm going to do some other shooting first."

"Save two bullets for me!" I plead, "and shoot so that I can see you."

"I will, I will," but all the time he was looking to the door; Mrs. Hyke was clinging to me
sobbing:

"We'll go together; no one can part us." The mob were pressed back and comparative quiet restored,
and when I finished the reading of my address I began to extemporize. What I said seemed to
be the right words at the right time. A hushed attention fell upon the audience, inside and
out. Then there was applause inside, which called forth howls from the outside, and when I
stepped from the platform, I was overwhelmed with congratulations, and more astonished than
any one, to learn that I could speak in public.

T.H. Barrett, a young civil engineer, was chairman of the committee on resolutions, and brought
in a set which thrilled the audience. They were a most indignant denunciation of the destruction
of the office, an enthusiastic endorsement of the course of the Visiter, and a determination
to re-establish it, under the sole control of its editor. They were passed singly by acclamation
until the last, when I protested that they should take time to think--should consider if it
were not better to get another editor. There could be no peace with me in the editorial chair,
for I was an abolitionist and would light slavery and woman-whippers to the death, and after
it. There was a universal response of "Good! Good! give it to 'em, and we'll stand by you."

This was the beginning of the final triumph of free speech, but the end was yet in the dim
distance, and this I knew then as well as afterwards. T.H. Barrett, who carried that meeting,
is the man who fought the last battle of the Rebellion at the head of his negro troops away
down in Texas, ten days after Lee's surrender, and before that news had reached him, Brown
was charged with cowardice, in having kept back among the women, and I had to explain on his
account.

CHAPTER XL.

A FAMOUS VICTORY.

The day after the Stearns House meeting, I was thought to be dying. All that medical skill
and loving hands could do was done to draw me from the dark valley into which I seemed to have
passed; while those men who had planted themselves and their rifles between me and death by
violence, came on tip-toe to know if I yet lived. When I was able to be out it was not thought
safe for me to do so--not even to cross the street and sit on the high green bank which overlooked
the river. Harry was constantly armed and on guard, and a pistol shot from his house, night
or day, would have brought a score of armed men in a very short time.

A printing company had been formed to re-establish the Visiter. In it were forty good men and
true, and they sent an agent to Chicago to buy press and type. The St. Cloud Visiter was to
begin a new life as the mouthpiece of the Republican party, and I was no longer a scout, conducting
a war on the only rational plan of Indian warfare. I begged my friends to stand abide and leave
Lowrie and me to settle the trouble, saying to them:

"I cannot fight behind ramparts of friends. I must take the risks myself, must have an open
field. Protect me from brute force and give me moral aid, but stand aside."

But they were full of enthusiasm, and would bear the brunt of battle. There were open threats
of the destruction of the new press, and it was no time to quit the field. Of the first number
of the resurrected Visiter, the St. Cloud Printing Co. was publisher, and I sole editor. I
prepared the contents very carefully, that they might not give unnecessary offense, dropped
the role of supporting Buchanan, and tried to make a strong Republican paper of the abolition
type, and in the leader gave a history of the destruction of my office.

The paper gave great satisfaction to the publishers, who had not thought I could be so calm;
but Lowrie threatened a libel suit for my history of that outrage, and I said to the printing
company:

"You must get out of my way or I will withdraw."

At once they gave me a bill of sale for the press and material, and of the second number I
was sole editor and proprietor, but it was too late. The libel suit was brought, damages laid
at $10,000, and every lawyer in that upper country retained for the prosecution.

This was in the spring of '58. The two years previous the country had been devastated by grasshoppers,
and no green thing had escaped. There was no old grain, the mass of people had been speculating
in town lots, and such had been the demand for city charters, that a wag moved in legislature
to reserve one-tenth of the land of Minnesota for agricultural purposes. The territorial had
just been exchanged for a state government, which was not yet in working order. The capital
of every man in the printing company was buried in corner lots, or lots which were not on a
corner. The wolves and bears cared nothing for surveyor's stakes, and held possession of most
of the cities, howling defiance at the march of civilization. The troops were still in Kansas
establishing slavery, and we lived in a constant state of alarm. The men were organized for
defense against Indians, and must do picket duty. All the money was in the hands of the enemy.
Citizens had everything to buy and nothing to buy it with. Provisions were brought up from
St. Paul by wagon, except when a boat could come from St. Anthony. Those men of the company
who were especially marked, were men of families, and it is hard to starve children for the
freedom of the press. The nearest court was St. Anthony. Any defense of that suit must be ruinous
to those men, and I advised them to compromise.

A committee was appointed to meet six lawyers, and were in despair when they learned the ultimatum
of the great Dictator. With the terms demanded, they had no inclination to comply, but sent
J. Fowler to me with the contract they were required to sign.

This bound the company in a bond of $10,000 actual payment, that the St. Cloud Visiter should
publish in its columns a card from Mr. Shepley, of which a copy was appended, and which stated
that the destruction of the office was not for any political cause, but was solely on account
of an attack made by its editor on the reputation of a lady. Also, that said Visiter should
never again discuss or refer to the destruction of its office.

Fowler burned with indignation, and was much surprised when I returned the paper, saying that
I would comply with these demands. He protested that I should not--that they had set out to
defend the freedom of the press.

"Which you cannot do," I remarked. "You sign that paper just as you would hand your money to
a robber who held a pistol to your head and demanded it. There is a point at which the bravest
must yield, where resistance is madness, and you have reached this point. The press is mine,
leave its freedom to me. Defend me from brute force and do your duty to your families."

He returned to the consultation room, where every one was surprised at my compliance. They
had all given me credit for more pluck, but since I surrendered, the case was lost. The contract
was signed, the bond executed, and everything made tight and fast as law could make it. The
friends of free press were indignant, but bided their time. Stephen Miller, a nephew of my
mother-in-law, and afterwards governor of Minnesota, was on a visit to Harrisburg during all
this trouble, and when he returned, he flew into a towering rage over what he termed the cowardly
backdown of the printing company, and published a card in the St. Paul papers, washing his
hands of it.

But to the victors belong the spoils and glory, and now they made much of them. Ladies got
out their silks, their jewels and their laces. There were sounds of revelry by night, where
fair women and gallant men drew around the social board, on which sparkled the wine-cup and
glimmered the yellow gold, to be taken up by the winner. Champagne was drunk in honor of the
famous victory, hands were shaken over it, stray sheep were brought back into the true Democratic
fold, and late opinions about presses and types were forgotten.

Though, among all the rejoicings, the Bar had the best of it. For once its members had not
been like the blades of a pair of scissors; had not even seemed to cut each other, while only
cutting that which came between. For once its members were a band of brothers, concentrated
into one sharp, keen dagger, with which they had stabbed Freedom to the heart. That triumphant
Bar stroked its bearded chin, and parted its silky mustache; hem'd its wisest hem; haw'd its
most impressive haw.

"If Gen. Lowrie had ah, but ah, taken legal advice ah, in the first instance ah, all would
have been well ah!"

They were the generals who had won this famous victory, and wore their laurels with a jaunty
air, while a learned and distinguished divine from the center of the State, in a sermon, congratulated
the Lord on having succeeded in "restoring peace to this community, lately torn by dissensions,"--and
all was quiet on the Mississippi.

On its bank sat poor little I, looking out on its solemn march to the sea, thinking of Minnesota;
sending a wail upon its bosom to meet and mingle with that borne by the Missouri from Kansas;
thinking of a sad-faced slave, who landed with her babe in her arms here, just in front of
my unfinished loft, performed the labor of a slave in this free Northern land, and embarked
from this same landing to go to a Tennessee auction block, nobody saying to the master, "Why
do ye this?" Against the power which thus trampled constitutional guarantees, congressional
enactments and State rights in the dust, I seemed to stand alone, with my hands tied--stood
in a body weighing just one hundred pounds, and kept in it by the most assiduous care.

Why did the heathen rage and kings vex themselves? God, even our God, should dash them together
like potsherds. What an uneven fight it was--God and I against that little clique--against a world!

I rented the office to the boys, who at once gave me notice that I was no longer wanted in
it. They issued a half-sheet Visiter, with "the Devil" as editor and proprietor. His salutatory
informed his readers, that he was in full possession and was going to have a good time; had
taught the Visiter to lie, and was going to tunnel the Mississippi. Those were bright boys,
and they had a jolly week. Mr. Shepley's card appeared, as per agreement, and thus far the
terms of release for the printing company complied with, and the contract with the Dictator
filled. But what next? Had I actually given up the publication? Of course I had. Its finances
were desperate, and what else could I do? What motive could I have for attempting to go on
with it? Oh, what a famous victory. The next publication day passed and no Visiter. There was
a dress parade of triumphant troops, and that most famous victory was bearing fruit.

Next day the St. Cloud Democrat made its appearance, and I was sole editor and proprietor.
Into the first editorial column I copied verbatim, with a prominent heading, the article from
the Visiter on which the libel suit was founded, and gave notice that I alone was pecuniarily
responsible for all the injury that could possibly be done to the characters of all the men
who might feel themselves aggrieved thereby. Of the late Visiter I had an obituary; gave a
short sketch of its stormy life; how it was insulted, overborne, enslaved; that it could not
live a slave, and died in its new chains.

It seems strange that those lawyers should have been so stupid, or should have accredited me
with such amazing stupidity when they drew up that bond; but so it was, and the tables were
completely turned. To sue me for libel was folly, for in St. Paul or St. Anthony I should have
had the gratuitous services of the best legal talent in the state, and they and their case
would have been ground into very small and dirty dust. No famous victory was ever before turned
into a more total rout by a more simple ambush, and by it I won the clear field necessary to
the continuance of my work.

I still had protection from physical violence, but had no fear of legal molestation, and after
the next fall election, border ruffianism fell into such disrepute in St. Cloud that loaded
guns seemed no longer necessary to sustain the freedom of the press.

CHAPTER XLI.

STATE AND NATIONAL POLITICS.

When The St. Cloud Democrat began its career as the organ of the Republican party in Northern
Minnesota, the central and southern portions of the State were fairly supplied with republican
papers, the conductors all being more or less skillful in the art of plowing and sowing the
political field; but with no very bright prospect of harvesting a victory. Under the Lowrie
dictatorship of the North, it is difficult to see how the success of a Republican could have
been made possible, any more than giving the electoral vote of Southern Republican States to
the Republican candidate in 1880.

To overthrow that dictatorship was the work I had volunteered to do, and in doing it, my plan
was to "plow deep," subsoil to the beam. Preachers held men accountable to God for their Sunday
services, but it was my aim to urge the divine claim to obedience, all the rest of the week.
I held that election day was of all others, the Lord's day. He instituted the first republic.
All the training which Moses gave the Jews was to fit them for self-government, and at his
death the choice of their rulers was left with them and they were commanded to

     "Choose men, fearing God and hating covetousness,
     and set them to rule over you."

For no creed, no form of worship, no act of his life, is a man more directly responsible to
God, than for casting his vote or the non-fulfillment of that duty. When the nominations were
made for the second State election in 1859, Gen. Lowrie had lost ground so fast that he needed
the indorsement of his party. This was given in his nomination for Lieut. Governor. The Republicans
nominated Ignatius Donnelly, a fiery young orator, who took the stump, and was not deterred
by any super-refinement from making the most of his opponent's reputation as the stealthy destroyer
of a printing office, because he had made a bad bargain in buying its editor. He and the party
which had made his methods its own by nominating him, were held up to the most unmerciful ridicule.
The canvass seemed to turn on the indorsement or repudiation of border-ruffianism, press-breaking,
woman-mobbing. My personnel had then become familiar to the people of the State, and the large
man who instituted a mob to suppress a woman of my size, and then failed, was not a suitable
leader for American men, even if they were Democrats.

The death-knell of Democratic rule in Minnesota was rung in that election. The whole Republican
State ticket was elected, with Gov. Ramsey at its head, and he was the first Governor to tender
troops to President Lincoln for the suppression of the Rebellion. The result was gratifying,
although our own county, Stearns, was overwhelmingly Democratic, and must remain so, since
the great mass of the people were Catholics.

However, the election of the State ticket was largely due to the personal popularity of Gov.
Ramsey, and this could not be depended upon for a lasting arrangement, so I spent the winter
following lecturing through the State, sowing seed for the coming presidential campaign. I
never spoke in public during an election excitement, never advocated on the platform the claims
of any particular man, but urged general principles.

Stephen Miller was our St. Cloud delegate to the Chicago Convention which nominated Mr. Lincoln,
led the canvass in the State, as the most efficient speaker and was chairman of the Electoral
College. His prominent position in the Border Ruffian war added largely to his popularity in
the State, and once more that little printing office under the grand old trees was plunged
into politics; this time into an election on which hung the destinies of the nation. How that
election was carried on in other States I know not, but in Minnesota the banner of Republicanism
and human freedom was borne aloft over a well fought field. There was not much surface work.
Men struggled for the Right against the old despotism of Might, and planted their cause on
foundations more enduring than Minnesota granite itself.

Yet, even then, the opposition of the Garrisonians was most persistent. There was a large anti-slavery
element among the original settlers of Minnesota, but it was mostly of the Garrisonian or non-voting
type, and had lain dormant under pro-slavery rule. To utilize this element at the polls was
my special desire. The ground occupied by them was the one I had abandoned, i.e., the ground
made by the Covenanters when the Constitution first appeared. They pronounced it "a covenant
with death and an agreement with hell," and would not vote or hold office under it; would not
take an oath to support it. So firmly had Garrison planted himself on the old Covenanter platform,
that it is doubtful whether he labored harder for the overthrow of slavery or political anti-slavery;
whether he more fiercely denounced slave-holders or men who voted against slave-holding. Once
after a "flaming" denunciation of political abolitionists, some one said to him:

"Mr. Garrison, I am surprised at the ground you take! Do you not think James G. Birney and
Gerrit Smith are anti-slavery?"

He hesitated, and replied:

"They have anti-slavery tendencies, I admit."

Now, James G. Birney, when a young man, fell heir to the third of an Alabama estate, and arranged
with the other heirs to take the slaves as his portion. He took them all into a free State,
emancipated them, and left himself without a dollar, but went to work and became the leader
of political abolitionists, while Gerrit Smith devoted his splendid talents and immense wealth
to the cause of the slave. When their mode of action was so reprehensible to Mr. Garrison,
we may judge the strength of his opposition to that plan of action which resulted in the overthrow
of slavery. His non-resistance covered ballots as well as bullets, and slavery, the creation
of brute force and ballots, must not be attacked by any weapon, save moral suasion. So it was,
that Garrisonianism, off the line of the underground railroad, was a rather harmless foe to
slavery, and was often used by it to prevent the casting of votes which would endanger its power.

From the action of the slave power, it must by that time have been apparent to all, that adverse
votes was what it most dreaded; but old-side Covenanters, Quakers, and Garrisonians could not
cast these without soiling their hands by touching that bad Constitution. But that moral dilettanteism,
which thinks first of its own hands, was not confined to non-voting abolitionists; for the
"thorough goers" of the old Liberty Party, could not come down from their perch on platforms
which embraced all the moralities, to work on one which only said to slavery "not another foot
of territory."

Both these parties attacked me. The one argued that I, of necessity, endorsed slavery every
where by recognizing the Constitution; the other that I must favor its existence where it then
was, by working with the Republican party, which was only pledged to prevent its extension.
To me, these positions seemed utterly untenable, their arguments preposterous, and I did my
best to make this appear. I claimed the Constitution as anti-slavery, and taught the duty of
overthrowing slavery by and through it, but no argument which I used did half the service of
an illustration which came to me:

I had a little garden in which the weeds did grow, and little Bobbie Miller had a little broken
hoe. When I went into my garden to cut the weeds away, I took up Bobbie's little hoe to help
me in the fray. If that little hoe were wanting, I'd take a spoon or fork, or any other implement,
but always keep at work. If any one would send me a broader, sharper hoe, I'd use it on those
ugly weeds and cut more with one blow; but till I got a better hoe, I'd work away with Bobbie's.
I'd ride one steady-going nag, and not a dozen hobbies; help any man or boy, or fiend to do
what needed doing, and only stop when work came up which done would call for ruing.

This conceit struck popular fancy as plain argument could not have done, and the Republican
party came to be called "Robbie Miller's Hoe "--an imperfect means of reaching a great end,
and one that any one might use without becoming responsible for its imperfections.

During the heat of that Lincoln campaign, Galusha A. Grow, then Speaker of the U.S. House of
Representatives, came to St. Cloud to speak, and found me ill with quinsy; but I went to the
meeting. It was held in Wilson's Hall, which was on the second floor of a frame building, and
was so packed that before he began fears were felt lest the floors should give way. But the
speaker told the audience that the floor would "hold still" if they did; and any one who felt
uneasy had better leave now. No one left, and for two hours and a half he held that packed
assembly in close and silent attention. He was very popular on the frontier on account of his
homestead bill, yet the hall was surrounded all the time he spoke by a howling Democratic mob,
who hurled stones against the house, fired guns, shouted and yelled, trying to drown his voice.
To make it more interesting and try to draw out the audience, they made a huge bonfire and
burned me in effigy as--

"The mother of the Republican party."

The result of that campaign is known, for in it Minnesota was made so thoroughly Republican
that the party must needs split, in order to got rid of its supremacy.

CHAPTER XLII.

RELIGIOUS CONTROVERSIES.

The St. Cloud Democrat found in orthodoxy a foe almost as powerful and persistent as slavery
itself. In a local controversy about dancing, I recommended that amusement as the only substitute
for lascivious plays, and this was eagerly seized upon by those who saw nothing wrong in wholesale
concubinage of the South. A fierce attack was made on The Democrat by a zealous Baptist minister;
to which I replied, when it was announced and proclaimed that on a certain Sabbath, at 10 A.M.,
this minister would answer The Democrat. At the appointed hour the house overflowed, and people
crowded around the doors and windows, while Gen. Lowrie occupied a prominent seat in the audience.

It surely was an odd sight to see that preacher mount the stand, carrying an open copy of The
Democrat, lay it down beside the Bible, and read verse about from the two documents. The sermon
was as odd as the text. It disposed of me by the summary mode of denunciation, but also disposed
of David, Solomon and Miriam at the same time. When I gave the discourse a careful Scriptural
criticism, I carried the community, and was strengthened by the controversy. But another, more
serious and general dispute was at hand.

When Theodore Parker died, the orthodox press from Maine to Georgia, handed him over to Satan
to be tormented; and then my reputation for heresy reached its flood-tide.

Rev. John Renwick, one of our Covenanter martyrs, was my ideal of a Christian, and when he
lay in the Edinburg prison under sentence of death, his weeping friends begged him to conform
and save his life. They said to him:

"Dinna ye think that we, who ha' conformit may be saved?"

"Aye, aye. God forbid that I should limit his grace."

"An' dinna ye think, ye too could be saved and conform?"

"Oh, aye aye. The blood of Christ cleanseth fra all sin."

"Weel, what mair do ye want, than the salvation o' yer saul?"

"Mair, mickle mair! I want to honor my Master, and bear witness to the truth."

To satisfy this want, he died a felon's death. The central idea of that old hero-making Westminster
theology was, that man's chief end is to glorify God first, and enjoy him forever when that
is done. In all the religious training of my youth, I had never heard the term "seek salvation."
We were to seek the privilege of serving God; yet I was willing to be dead-headed into heaven,
with the rest of the Presbyterians.

A Protestant Episcopal convention had pointedly refused to advise members of that church to
respect the marriage relation among their slaves, and so had dimmed the Elizabethian glory
of a church which once stood for freedom so nobly that the winds and waves became her allies,
and crowned her with victory. The General Assembly had laid the honor of its martyrs in the
dust by endorsing human slavery; and I must be false to every conviction if I did not protest
against calling that Christianity which held out crowns of glory to man-thieves and their abettors,
and everlasting torments to those who had spent their lives glorifying God and bearing witness
to the truth. My defense of Parker and unwillingness to have all Unitarians sent to the other
side of the Great Gulf, won for me a prominent place among those whom the churches pronounced
"Infidels."

But there came a time when "Providence" seemed to be on the side of the slave.

Rev. J. Calhoun was a highly-cultured gentleman, a Presbyterian clergyman, and one of those
urbane men who add force and dignity to any opinion. His wife was Gen. Lowrie's only sister.
He preached gratuitously in St. Cloud, and Border Ruffianism and Slavery gained respectability
through their connection, when he and his wife made that fatal plunge off the bridge in St.
Cloud--a plunge which sent a thrill of horror through the land. I accompanied my sympathetic,
respectful obituary notice, with the statement that the costly cutter wrecked, and the valuable
horse instantly killed, were both purchased with money obtained by the sale of a woman and
her child, who had been held as slaves in Minnesota, in defiance of her law, and been taken
by this popular divine to a Tennessee auction block.

The accident was entirely owing to the unprecedented and unaccountable behavior of that horse,
and people shuddered with a new horror on being reminded of the price which had been paid for
him--bodies and souls of two citizens and the honor of that free State.

CHAPTER XLIII.

FRONTIER LIFE.

The culture which the pale faces introduced into that land of the Dakotas was sometimes curious.
The first sermon I heard there was preached in Rockville--a town-site on the Sauk, twelve miles
from its confluence with the Mississippi--in a store-room of which the roof was not yet shingled.
The only table in the town served as a pulpit; the red blankets from one wagon were converted
into cushions for the front pews, which consisted of rough boards laid on trussles. There was
only one hymn book, and after reading the hymn, the preacher tendered the book to any one who
would lead the singing, but no one volunteered. My scruples about psalms seemed to vanish,
so I went forward, took the book, lined out the hymn, and started a tune, which was readily
taken up and sung by all present. We were well satisfied with what the day brought us, as we
rode home past those wonderful granite rocks which spring up out of the prairie, looking like
old hay-ricks in a meadow.

There were people in our frontier town who would have graced any society, and with the elasticity
of true culture adapted themselves to all circumstances. At my residence, which adjoined the
Democrat office, I held fortnightly receptions, at which dancing was the amusement, and coffee
and sandwiches the refreshments. At one of these, I had the honor to entertain Gov. Ramsey,
Lieut.-Gov. Donnelly, State Treas. Shaeffer, and a large delegation from St. Paul; but not
having plates for seventy people, I substituted squares of white printing paper. When Gov.
Ramsey received his, he turned it over, and said:

"What am I to do with this?"

"That is the ticket you are to vote," was the answer.

In our social life there was often a weird mingling of civilization and barbarism. Upon one
occasion, a concert was given, in which the audience were in full dress, and all evening in
the principal streets of St. Cloud a lot of Chippewas played foot-ball with the heads of some
Sioux, with whom they had been at war that day.

In those days, brains and culture were found in shanties. The leaders of progress did not shrink
from association with the rude forces of savages and mother nature.

St. Cloud was the advance post of that march of civilization by which the Northern Pacific
railroad has since sought to reach the Sascatchewan, a territory yet to be made into five wheat-growing
States as large as Illinois. All the Hudson Bay goods from Europe passed our doors, in wagons
or on sleds, under the care of the Burbanks, the great mail carriers and express men of Minnesota,
and once they brought a young lady who had come by express from Glasgow, Scotland, and been
placed under the charge of their agent at New York, and whom they handed over to the officer
she had come to marry on the shores of Hudson Bay. But their teams usually came east with little
freight, as the furs sent to Europe came down in carts, not one of which had so much iron as
a nail in them, and which came in long, creaking trains, drawn by oxen or Indian ponies.

In each train there was generally one gorgeous equipage--a cart painted blue, with a canvas
cover, drawn by one large white ox in raw-hide harness. In this coach of state rode the lady
of the train--who was generally a half-breed--on her way to do her shopping in St. Paul. Once
the lady was a full-blooded Indian, and had her baby with her, neatly dressed and strapped
to a board. A bandage across the forehead held the head in place, and every portion of the
body was as secure as board and bandages could make them, except the arms from the elbow down,
but no danger of the little fellow sucking his thumb. His lady mamma did not have to hold him,
for he was stood up in a corner like a cane or umbrella, and seemed quite comfortable as well
as content. She had traveled seven weeks, had come seventeen hundred miles to purchase some
dresses and trinkets, and would no doubt be a profitable customer to St. Paul merchants, for
the lady of the train was a person of wealth and authority, always the wife of the commander-in-chief,
and her sentence of death might have been fatal to any man in it.

In these trains were always found Indians filling positions as useful laborers, for the English
government never gave premiums for idleness and vagabondism among Indians, by feeding and clothing
them without effort on their own part. Their dexterity in turning griddle cakes, by shaking
the pan and giving it a jerk which sent the cake up into the air and brought it down square
into the pan other side up, would have made Biddy's head whirl to see. The "Gov. Ramsey" was
the first steamboat which ran above the falls of St. Anthony, and in the spring of '59 she
was steamed and hawsered up the Sauk Rapids, and ran two hundred miles, until the falls of
Pokegamy offered insurmountable barriers to further progress. It was thought impossible to
get her down again, there was no business for her, and she lay useless until, the next winter,
Anson Northup took out her machinery and drew it across on sleds to the Red River of the North,
where it was built into the first steamboat which ever ran on that river.

Before starting on his expedition, Mr. Northup came to the Democrat office to leave an advertisement
and ask me to appeal to the public for aid in provisions and feed to be furnished along the
route. He was in a Buffalo suit, from his ears to his feet, and looked like a bale of furs.
On his head he wore a fox skin cap with the nose lying on the two paws of the animal just between
his eyes, the tail hanging down between his shoulders. He was a brave, strong man, and carried
out his project, which to most people was wild.

Nothing seemed more important than the cultivation of health for the people, and to this I
gave much earnest attention, often expressed in the form of badinage. There were so many young
housekeepers that there was much need of teachers. I tried to get the New England women to
stop feeding their families on dough--especially hot soda dough--and to substitute well-baked
bread as a steady article of diet. In trying to wean them from cake, I told of a time when
chaos reigned on earth, long before the days of the mastodons, but even then, New England women
were up making cake, and would certainly be found at that business when the last trump sounded.
But they bore with my "crotchets" very patiently, and even seemed to enjoy them.

CHAPTER XLIV.

PRINTERS.

The printer's case used to be one of the highways to editorial and congressional honors; but
the little fellows of the craft invented a machine which goes over it like a "header" over
a wheat-field and leaves a dead level of stalks, all minus the heads, so that no tall fellows
are left to shame them by passing on from the "stick" to the tripod or speaker's mallet. Their
great Union rolling-pin flattens them all out like pie-crust, and tramps are not overshadowed
by the superiority of industrious men. But the leveling process makes impassable mountains
and gorges in other walks of life--makes it necessary that a publisher with one hundred readers
must pay as much for type-setting as he with a hundred thousand. The salary of editors and
contributors may vary from nothing to ten thousand a year; but through all mutations of this
life, the printer's wages must remain in statu quo. So the Union kills small papers, prevents
competition in the newspaper business, builds up monster establishments, and keeps typos at
the case forever and a day.

I knew when the Visiter started that it could not live and pay for type-setting the same price
as paid by the New York Tribune, and the day the office became mine, I stated that fact to
the printers, who took their hats and left. In '52, I had spent some part of every day for
two weeks in a composing room, and with the knowledge then acquired, I, in '58 started the
business of practical printer. I took a proof of my first stick, and lo, it read from right
to left. I distributed that, but had to mark the stick that I might remember.

The first day I took two boys as apprentices. First, Wesley Miller, who had spent two months
in a Harrisburg office, and knew something of the art, but did not like anything about it except
working the press. Second, my nephew, William B. Mitchell, who was thirteen, knew nothing of
types, but was a model of patient industry.

Our magnanimous printers hung around hotels, laughing at the absurdity of this amateur office.
We might set type, but when it came to making and locking up a form, ha, ha, wouldn't there
be sport? That handsome new type would all be a mess of pi, then somebody would be obliged
to come to their terms or St. Cloud would be without a paper. It was their great opportunity
to display their interest in the general welfare, and they embraced it to the full; but of
the little I had learned in that short apprenticeship six years ago, I retained a clear conception
of the principles of justification by works. I brought these to bear on those forms, made them
up, locked them, and sent for Stephen Miller to carry them to the press, when each one lifted
like a paving stone; but alas, alas, the columns read from right to left. I unlocked them,
put the matter back in the galleys, made them up new, and we had the paper off on time.

From that time until the first of January, '63, I carried on the business of practical printer,
issued a paper every week, did a large amount of job work, was city and county printer for
half a dozen counties, did all the legal advertising, published the tax lists, and issued extras
during the Indian massacres.

CHAPTER XLV.

THE REBELLION.

When, after Mr. Lincoln's election, the South made the North understand that her threats of
disunion meant something more than "tin kettle thunder," there was little spirit of compromise
among the Republicans and Douglas Democrats of Minnesota, who generally looked with impatience
on the abject servility with which Northern men in Congress begged their Southern masters not
to leave them, with no slaves to catch, no peculiar institution to guard.

I was in favor of not only permitting the Southern States to leave the Union, but of driving
them out of it as we would drive tramps out of a drawing room. Put them out! and open every
avenue for the escape of their slaves. But from that spirit of conciliation with which the
North first met, secession, the change was sudden. The fire on Sumter lit an actual flame of
freedom, and the people were ready then to wipe slavery from the whole face of the land. When
Gen. Fremont issued his famous order confiscating the slaves of rebels in arms, I was in receipt
of a large exchange list, and have never seen such unanimity on any subject. I think there
were but two papers which offered an objection; but this land was not worthy to do a generous
deed. So, President Lincoln rescinded that order, and the great rushing stream of popular enthusiasm
was dammed, turned back to flow into the dismal swamp of constitutional quibbles and statutory
inventions. There it lay, and bred reptiles and miasmas to sting and poison the guilty inhabitants
of this great land; and never since have we been permitted to reach an enthusiasm in favor
of any great principle; for history has no record of a great act so thoroughly divested of
all greatness by the meanness of the motive, as is our "Act of Emancipation."

Long after the war was in progress, the old habit of yielding precedence to the South manifested
itself so strongly as to sour and disgust the staunchest Republicans. The only two important
military appointments given by Mr. Lincoln's administration to St. Cloud were given to two
Southern Democrats, officeholders under Buchanan and supporters of Breckinridge, the Southern
candidate for President in '60. In the autumn of '61, I asked a farmer to take out and post
bills for a meeting to send delegates to the county convention. He had been an active worker
in the campaign of '60, had never sought an office, and I was surprised when he declined so
small a service, but his explanation was this:

"If the Democrats win the election, the Democrats will get the offices. If the Republicans
win the election, the Democrats will get the offices, and I don't see but we may as well let
them win the election."

When I explained that the more false others were to a party or principle, the more need there
was for him to be true, he took the bills and managed the meeting; but running a Republican
ticket under a Republican administration was not so easy as running the same ticket under Buchanan.
Then men had hope and enthusiasm, but this was killed by a victory through which the enemy
was made to triumph.

As Gov. Ramsey was the first to tender troops to President Lincoln for the suppression of the
Rebellion, so the men of Minnesota were among the first to organize and drill. Stephen Miller
raised a company in St. Cloud, with it joined the first regiment at Ft. Snelling, and was appointed
Lieut. Col.

We went to Ft. Snelling to see our first regiment embark. It was a grand sight to see the men
in red shirts and white Havelocks march down that rocky, winding way, going to their Southern
graves, for very few of them ever returned.

More troops were called for, and two companies formed in St. Cloud. While they waited under
marching orders, they and the citizens were aroused at two o'clock one morning by the cry from
the east side of the river of, "Indians, Indians." A boat was sent over and brought a white-lipped
messenger, with the news of the Sioux massacre at Ft. Ridgley.

CHAPTER XLVI.

PLATFORMS.

My first public speech was the revelation of a talent hidden in a napkin, and I set about putting
it to usury. I wrote a lecture--"Women and Politics"--as a reason for my anomalous position
and a justification of those men who had endorsed my right to be a political leader, and gave
sketches of women in sacred and profane history who had been so endorsed by brave and wise men.

The lecture gave an account of the wrongs heaped upon women by slavery, as a reason why women
were then called upon for special activity, and I never failed to "bring down the house" by
describing the scene in which the tall Kentuckian proposed to the tall Pennsylvanian that he
should horsewhip an old woman one hundred and two times, to compel her to earn two hundred
dollars with which his mightiness might purchase Havana cigars, gold chains, etc., or to elicit
signs of shame by relating the fact of the United States government proposing to withdraw diplomatic
relations with Austria for whipping Hungarian women for political offenses, while woman-whipping
was the principal industry of our American chivalry.

I stated that men had sought to divide this world into two fields--religion and politics. In
the first, they were content that their mothers and wives should dwell with them, but in the
second, no kid slipper was ever to be set. Horace Mann had warned women to stand back, saying:
"Politics is a stygian pool." I insisted that politics had reached this condition through the
permit given to Satan to turn all the waste water of his mills into that pool; that this grant
must be rescinded and the pool drained at all hazards. Indeed the emergency was such that even
women might handle shovels.

Chicago had once been in a swamp, but the City Fathers had lifted it six feet. Politicians
must "raise the grade," must lift their politics the height of a man, and make them a habitation
for men, not reptiles. At this an audience would burst into uproarous applause.

As for the grand division, no surveyor could find the line; for no line was possible between
religion and politics. The attempt to divide them is an assumption that there is some part
of the universe in which the Lord is not law-giver. The Fathers of the Republic had explored
and found a country they thought was outside the Divine jurisdiction, and called it Politics.
Because old world government had bowed to popes and prelates, they would ignore Deity, and
say to Omnipotence what Canute did to the sea: "Thus far shalt thou go but no further, and
here shall thy proud waves be stayed." But God laughed them to scorn, and would certainly dash
them to pieces. The government which they had set up like the golden image of Nebuchadnezzer,
and demanded that all should bow before it, this same government was bound to sustain men in
scourging women for chastity. Every man who voted a democratic ticket voted to put down as
insurrection any attempt to stand between the cradle and its robber.

I never spoke of the St. Cloud trouble--there was too much else to talk about. I was seldom
interrupted by anything but applause; but in Stillwater I was hissed for denouncing Buchanan's
administration. I waited a moment, then lowered my voice, and said I had raised a good many
goslings, and thought I had left them all in Pennsylvania, but found some had followed me,
and was sorry to have no corn for them. There was no further interruption.

I was at that time the guest of a son of my Pittsburg friend, Judge McMillan, who led the singing
in our church, and with whom I expect to sing "St. Thomas" in heaven. My host of that evening
afterwards became U.S. Senator from Minnesota.

A considerable portion of three winters I traveled in Minnesota and lectured, one day riding
thirty miles in an open cutter when the mercury was frozen and the wind blew almost a gale.
Have crossed houseless prairies between midnight and morning, with only a stage driver, and
I never encountered a neglect or a rudeness: but found gentlemen in red flannel shirts and
their trowsers stuffed into the tops of their boots, who had no knowledge of grammar, and who
would, I think, have sold their lives dearly in my defense.

Late in '60 or early in '61, I lectured in Mantorville, and was the guest of Mr. Bancroft,
editor of the Express, when he handed me a copy of the New York Tribune, pointed to an item,
and turned away. It was a four line announcement that he who had been my husband had obtained
a divorce on the ground of desertion. I laid down the paper, looked at my hands, and thought:

"Once more you are mine. True, the proceeds of your twenty years of brick-making are back there
in Egypt with your lost patrimony, but we are over the Red Sea, out in the free desert; no
pursuit is possible, and if bread fails, God will send manna."

While I sat, Mrs. Bancroft came to me, caressed me, and said:

"Old things have passed away, and all things have become new."

CHAPTER XLVII.

OUT INTO THE WORLD AND HOME AGAIN.

In my first lecturing winter I spoke in the Hall of Representatives, St. Paul, to a large audience,
and succeeded past all my hopes. I spoke there again in the winter of '61 and '62, on the anti-slavery
question, and in a public hall on "Woman's Legal Disabilities." Both were very successful,
and I was invited to give the latter lecture before the Senate, which I did. The hall was packed
and the lecture received with profound attention, interrupted by hearty applause.

The Senate was in session, and Gen. Lowrie occupied his seat as a member. It was a great fall
for him to tumble from his dictatorship to so small an honor. He sat and looked at me like
one in a dream, and I could not but see that he was breaking. I hoped he would come up with
others when they began to crowd around me, but he did not.

I had come to be the looked-at of all lookers; the talked-of of all talkers; was the guest
of Geo. A. Nurse, the U.S. Attorney, dined with the Governor, and was praised by the press.
I was dubbed the "Fanny Kemble of America," and reminded critics of the then greatest Shylock
of the stage. A judge from Ohio said there was "not a man in the State who could have presented
that case (Woman's Legal Disabilities) so well." Indeed, I was almost as popular as if I were
about to be hanged!

A responsible Eastern lecture-agent offered me one hundred dollars each for three lectures,
one in Milwaukee, one in Chicago and one in Cleveland. I wanted to accept, but was overruled
by friends, who thought me too feeble to travel alone, and that I would make more by employing
an agent. They selected a pious gentleman, whose name I have forgotten, and we left St. Paul
at four o'clock one winter morning, in a prairie schooner on bob-sleds, to ride to La Crosse.

One of the passengers was a pompous Southerner, who kept boasting of the "buck niggers" he
had sold and the "niggers" he had caught, and his delight in that sort of work. His talk was
aimed at me, but he did not address me, and for hours I took no notice; then, after an unusual
explosion, I said quietly:

"Can you remember, sir, just exactly how many niggers you have killed and eaten in your day?"

He looked out on the river and seemed to begin a calculation, but must have found the lists
of his exploits too long for utterance, for he had spoken not another word when we reached
La Crosse, where we took cars for Madison, Wisconsin.

We reached that beautiful city of lakes in time to meet news of the Ft. Donelson fatal victory;
that victory made so much worse than a hundred defeats by the return to their masters of the
slaves who remained in the fort and claimed the protection of our flag--the victory which converted
the great loyal army of the North into a gang of slave-catchers. Alas, my native land! All
hope for the preservation of the government died out in my heart. What could a just God want
with such a people? What could he do but destroy them?

That victory was celebrated in Madison with appropriate ceremonies. Men got drunk and cursed
"niggers and abolitionists," sat up all night in noisy orgies drinking health and success to
him who was the synonym of American glory.

The excitement and sudden revulsion against abolitionists with the total incompetence of my
agent, caused a financial failure of my lecture, but I made pleasant friendships with Gov.
Harvey, Prof. Carr and their wives.

I started along the route we had come, and everywhere, in cars, hotels, men were hurrahing
for Grant and cursing "niggers and abolitionists."

The hero had healed the breach between the loving brothers of the North and South, who were
to rush into each others arms across the prostrate form of Liberty. Thank God for the madness
of the South; for that sublime universal government which maketh "the wrath of man to praise
him." Even in that hour of triumph for despotism, I did not doubt but Freedom would march on
until no slave contaminated the earth; but before that march this degraded government must
share the fate of that other Babylon, which once dealt "in slaves and souls of men."

My first small town lecture was another financial failure, and in the hall I paid and dismissed
that highly respectable incubus--my agent.

That night I slept in a hotel, and going to a bed which had not been properly ventilated, wondered
if it could be my duty to breast that storm of popular frenzy. Could I at any time be required
to drink tea out of a coarse delf cup and sleep in such a bed? Luxuries I wanted none; but
a china cup, silver spoon and soft blankets were necessaries of life. As I lay, uncertain always
whether I slept, I seemed to sit on a projecting rock on the side of a precipice draped with
poisonous vines. There was no spot on which I could place my feet, while out of holes, snakes
hissed at me, and on ledges panthers glared at me with their green fiery eyes, and the tips
of their tails wagging. Far below lay a lovely green valley, walled on both sides by these
haunted precipitous banks, but stretching up and down until lost in vista. I knew that to the
right was north--the direction of home; and to the left, south--the way out into the great
unknown. If I could only reach that lovely valley and the clear stream which ran through it;
but this was a vain longing, until there appeared in it a young man in a grey suit and soft
broad-brimmed black felt hat. He came up the precipice toward me, and a way made itself before
him, until he held up his hand, and said:

"Come down!"

I saw his face, and knew it was Christ. After seeing that face, all the conceptions of all
the artists are an offense. Moreover, the Christ of to-day, in the person of his follower,
has often come to me in the garb of a working man, but never in priestly robes. He led me down
the precipice without a word, pointed northward and said:

"Walk in the valley and you will be safe." He was gone, and I became conscious that I had been
seeking popularity, money, and these were not for me; I must go home, but first I would try
to repair the loss incurred by that agent. I lectured in a small town, a nucleus of a Seven
Day Baptist settlement, and was the guest of the proprietor, who had built a great many concrete
walls. Coming out into a heavy wind, I took acute inflammation of the lungs. My hostess gave
me every attention; but I must go home for my symptoms were alarming, so took the train the
next morning, with my chest in wet compresses, a viol of aconite in my pocket, and was better
when by rail and schooner I reached the house of the good Samaritan, Judge Wilson, of Winona.

Here I was made whole, lectured in Winona and other towns, and got back to St. Paul with more
money than when I left. I started for home one morning in a schooner. At one the next morning
our craft settled down and refused to go farther. The snow was three feet deep; it had been
raining steadily for twelve hours, and when the men got out to pry out the runners, they went
down, down, far over their knees. The driver and express agent were booted for such occasions,
but the two Germans were not. Myself, "these four and no more," were down in the book of fate
for a struggle with inertia. It was muscle and mind against matter. To the muscle I contributed
nothing, but might add something to the common stock of mind. The agent, and driver concluded
that he should take a horse and go to the nearest house, two miles back, to get shovels to
dig us out. I asked if there were fresh horses and men at the house.

"No."

"How far is it to St. Cloud?"

"Six miles."

"Are there fresh horses and men there?"

"Oh, plenty."

"If you dig us out here, how long will it be before we go in again?" This they did not know.

"Then had not the driver better go to St. Cloud with both horses? The horse left here would
be ruined standing in that slush."

"But, madam," said the agent, "if we do that we will have to leave you here all night."

"Well," I said, "I do not see how you are going to get rid of me."

So the driver started with the two horses on that dreadful journey; had I known how dreadful,
I should have tried to keep him till morning. As he left, I made the Germans draw off their
boots and pour out the water, rub their chilled feet and roll them up in a buffalo robe. The
agent lay on his box, I cuddled in a corner, and we all went to sleep to the music of the patter
of the soft rain on our canvas cover. At sunrise we were waked by a little army of men and
horses and another schooner, into which we passed by bridge. We reached St. Cloud in time for
breakfast, and were greeted by the news that General Lowrie had been sent home insane. He was
confined in his own house, and his much envied young wife, with her two babies, had become
an object of pity.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

THE ARISTOCRACY OF THE WEST.

Before going to Minnesota, I had the common Cooper idea of the dignity and glory of the noble
red man of the forest; and was especially impressed by his unexampled faithfulness to those
pale-faces who had ever been so fortunate as to eat salt with him. In planning my hermitage,
I had pictured the most amicable relations with those unsophisticated children of nature, who
should never want for salt while there was a spoonful in my barrel. I should win them to friendships
as I had done railroad laborers, by caring for their sick children, and aiding their wives.
Indeed, I think the Indians formed a large part of the attractions of my cabin by the lakes;
and it required considerable time and experience to bring me to any true knowledge of the situation,
which was, and is, this:

Between the Indian and white settler, rages the world-old, world-wide war of hereditary land-ownership
against those who beg their brother man for leave to live and toil. William Penn disclaimed
the right of conquest as a land title, while he himself held an English estate based on that
title, and while every acre of land on the globe was held by it. He could not recognize that
title in English hands, but did in the hands of Indians, and while pretending to purchase of
them a conquest title, perpetrated one of the greatest swindles on record since that by which
Jacob won the birthright of his starving brother.

This Penn swindle has been so carefully cloaked that it has become the basis of our whole Indian
policy, the legitimate parent of a system never equalled on earth for crime committed with
the best intentions. It intends to be especially just, by holding that the Creator made North
America for the exclusive use of savages, and that civilization can only exist here by sufferance
of the proprietors. This sufferance it tries to purchase by engaging to support these proprietors
in absolute idleness, from the proceeds of the toil they license, even as kings and other landed
aristocrats are supported by the labor of their subjects and tenants.

As the successors of the tent-maker of Tarsus have for thirteen centuries been found on the
side of aristocrats in every contest with plebians, so the piety of the East, controlled by
men who live without labor, was and is on the side of the royal red man, who has a most royal
contempt for plows, hoes and all other degrading implements.

The same community of interests which arrayed the mass of the clergy on the side of Southern
slaveholders, arrayed that same clergy on the side of the Western slave holder, and against
the men who seek, with plows and hoes, to get a living out of the ground. Under this arrangement
we have the spectacle of a Christian people arrayed in open hostility to those who plant Christian
churches, schools and libraries on the lair of the wolf; and in alliance with the savage who
coolly unjoints the feet and hands of little children, puts them in his hunting pouch as evidence
of his valor, and leaves the victim to die at leisure; of those who thrust Christian babies
into ovens, and deliberately roast them to death; of those who bind infants, two by two, by
one wrist, and throw them across a fence to die; of those who collect little children in groups
and lock them up in a room, to wail out their little lives; of those who commit outrages on
innocent men and women who the pen must forever refuse to record. The apology with which piety
converts the crimes of its pets into virtues, is that its own agents have failed to carry out
its own contract with its own friends.

The men and women who take their lives in their hands to lead the westward march of civilization,
are held as foes by the main body of the army, who conspire with the enemy, and hand them over
as scapegoats whose tortures and death are to appease divine wrath for the crimes which this
same main body say it has itself committed against Indians.

No one pretends that Western settlers have injured Indians, but Eastern philanthropists, through
the government they control, have, according to their own showing, been guilty of no end of
frauds; and as they do not, and cannot, stop the stealing, they pay their debts to the noble
red man by licensing him to outrage women, torture infants and burn homes. When gold is scarce
in the East, they substitute scalps and furnish Indians with scalping-knives by the thousand,
that they may collect their dues at their own convenience.

This may seem to-day a bitter partisan accusation, but it must be the calm verdict of history
when this comes to be written by impartial pens.

Under the pretense that America belonged, in fee simple, and by special divine right, to that
particular hoard of savages, who, by killing off some other hoard of savages, were in possession
when Columbus first saw the Great West, the Eastern States, which had already secured their
land by conquest, have become more implacable foes to civilization than the savages themselves.

The Quaker would form no alliance with Southern slave-holders. He recoiled from the sale of
women and children in South Carolina, but covered with his gray mantle of charity the slave
trade in Minnesota. When a settler refused to exchange his wife or daughter with an Indian
for a pony, and that Indian massacred the whole family to repair his wrongs, his Quaker lawyer
justified the act on the score of extreme provocation, and won triumphal acquittal from the
jury of the world.

When the Sioux, after the Bull Run disaster, arose as the allies of the South, and butchered
one thousand men, women and children in Minnesota, the Quakers and other good people flew to
arms in their defense, and carried public sentiment in their favor. The agents of the Eastern
people had delayed the payment of annuity three weeks, and then insulted Mr. Lo by tendering
him one-half his money in government bonds, and for this great wrong the peaceable Quaker,
the humanitarian Unitarian, the orthodox Congregationalist and Presbyterian, the enthusiastic
Methodist and staid Baptist, felt it but right Mr. Lo should have his revenge.

Most Eastern Christians are opposed to polygamy in Utah, and Fourierism in France, but in Minnesota
among Indians these institutions are sacred. They demanded that England should by law prohibit
widow-burning and other heathen customs in India, but nothing so rude as statutes must interfere
with the royal privileges of these Western landlords. If by gentle means Mr. Lo can be persuaded
to stop taking all the wives he can get, extorting their labor by the cudgel, and selling them
and their children at will, all well and good! Millions are expended on the persuading business,
and prayer poured out like the rains in Noah's flood, without any perceptible effect; but still
they keep on paying and praying, and carefully abstain from all means at all likely to accomplish
the desired result. All the property of every tribe must be held in common, so that there can
possibly be no incentive to industry and economy; but if the Indian refuse to be civilized
on that plan, he must go on taking scalps and being excused, until extermination solve the problem.

Long before I saw an Indian on his native soil, the U.S. Government had spent millions in carrying
out this Penn policy. For long years, Indians had sat like crows, watching the white farmers
and artisans sent to teach them industry, and had grunted their honest contempt. They watched
the potato planting, that they might pick out the seed for present use. They pulled down fences,
and turned their ponies into the growing crops, used the rails for fire wood, burned mills
and houses built for them, rolled barrels of flour up steep acclivities, started them down
and shouted to see them leap and the flour spurt through the staves; knocked the heads out
of other barrels, and let the ponies eat the flour; poured bags of corn on the ground when
they wanted the bag, and in every way showed their contempt for the government, whose policy
they believed to be the result of cowardice. Thousands of dollars' worth of agricultural machinery
lay "rotting in the sun" while the noble red aristocrat played poker in the shade; his original
contempt for labor intensified by his power to extract a living from laborers, through their
fear of his scalping knife.

Hole-in-the-day, the Chippewa chief, had been educated by Baptist missionaries, and was a good
English scholar, but would not condescend to speak to the government except through an interpreter.
For him six hundred acres of land had been fenced, and a large frame cottage built and painted
white. In this he lived with six wives, and a United States salary of two thousand a year and
his traveling expenses. He dressed like a white man, dined with State officers in St. Paul,
went to church with a lady on his arm, sat in a front pew, and was a highly distinguished gentleman
of the scalping school.

CHAPTER XLIX.

THE INDIAN MASSACRE OF '62.

The Indians had been ugly from the first outbreak of the Rebellion, and Commissioner Dole,
with Senator Wilkinson, had come out to pacify them. The party passed through St. Cloud, and
had camped several miles west, when in the night there came up one of those sudden storms peculiar
to this land. Their tents were whisked away like autumn leaves, and they left clinging to such
productions of mother nature as were at hand, well rooted in her bosom, to avoid a witches'
dance in the air. But it grew worse when the rain had covered the level ground six inches deep
in water, and they must keep their heads above the surface.

They returned to St. Cloud in the morning in sorry plight, and the delay was one of the injuries
to the poor Indians, and counted as sufficient justification for the subsequent massacre. The
delay, however, saved their lives. The messenger who aroused the people of St. Cloud in the
small hours was traveling post after this Dole commission, for whose safety there was much
anxiety, but none for St. Cloud, since the Indians would not attack us while there were two
companies of soldiers in town. True, they were unarmed, but surely arms would be sent and their
marching orders rescinded. The outbreak was mysterious. It was of course in the interests of
the South, and meant to prevent the troops leaving the State; but why had not the tribes struck
together?

The answer was that after the massacre had been arranged in council, two Sioux visited a white
family in which they had often been entertained, were drunk, and could not resist the impulse
to butcher their entertainers. This precipitated the attack, for so soon as the news reached
the tribe, they went to work to execute their bloody purpose.

Johnson, a converted Chippewa, hurried to inform us that his tribe with Hole-in-the-day in
council had resolved to join the Sioux and were to have made St. Cloud their base of operations,
but the Sioux had broken out before the arms and ammunition came, and these they were hourly
expecting. On the same day a formal message came from Hole-in-the-day that Commissioner Dole
must come to the reservation to confer with his young braves, who would await his arrival ten
days, after which time their great chief declined to be responsible for them.

A runner arrived from Ft. Abercrombie, who had escaped by crawling through the grass, and reported
the Fort besieged by a thousand savages, and quite unprepared for defense. There were several
St. Cloud people in the Fort, and so far from expecting aid from it it must be relieved. The
garrison at Ft. Ripley had not a man to spare for outside defense. People began to pour into
St. Cloud with tales of horror to freeze the blood, and the worst reports were more than confirmed.
The victorious Sioux had undisputed possession of the whole country west, southwest and northwest
of us, up to within twelve miles of the city, and had left few people to tell tales. Our troops
spent their time teaching women and children the use of firearms, and hoping for arms and orders
to go to the relief of Abercrombie. There was no telegraph, and the last mail left no alternative
but to start for Fort Snelling, with such short time to get there that every available man
and horse must go to hurry them forward. They left in the afternoon, and that was a dreadful
night. Many of the more timid women had gone east, but of those that remained some paced the
streets, wringing their hands and sobbing out their fear and despair and sorrow for the husbands
and brothers and sons taken from them at such a crisis.

When the troops left, we thought there were no more men in St. Cloud, but next morning found
a dozen, counting the boys, who were organized to go out west to the rescue of settlers, and
still there were some guards and pickets, and some who did nothing but find fault with everything
any one else did.

Men and women spoke with stiffened lips and blanched faces. Families in the outskirts gathered
to more central places, and there were forty-two women and children in my house the night after
the troops left, and for every night for weeks. We kept large kettles of boiling water as one
means of defense. I always had the watchword, and often at midnight I would go out to see that
the pickets were on duty, and report to the women that all was well. Brother Harry was appointed
General of State troops, succeeding Gen. Lowrie, and arms were sent to him for distribution,
while women kept muskets by them and practiced daily. The office of my democratic contemporary
was closed, and he fled to New England, while his assistant went with my only male assistant
to rescue settlers. I had two young ladies in the office, one a graduate of a New York high
school, and through all the excitement they kept at work as coolly as at any other time. We
got out the paper regularly, and published many extras.

The history of the horrors and heroisms which reached us during the six weeks in which Ft.
Abercrombie held out until relief came, would make a volume, and cannot he written here. The
unimaginable tortures and indecencies inflicted on brave men and good women, are something
for which the Christian supporters and excusers of the Sioux must yet account at the bar where
sentimental sympathy with criminals is itself a crime; and where the wail of tortured infants
will not be hushed by reckoning of bad beef and a deficiency in beans.

While the Sioux sat in council to determine that butchery, some objected, on the ground that
such crimes would be punished, but Little Crow, leader of the war party, quieted their fears
by saying:

"White man no like Indian! Indian catch white man, roast him, kill him! White man catch Indian,
feed him, give him blankets," and on this assurance they acted.

One thing was clearly proven by that outbreak, viz.: that services to, and friendship for,
Indians, are the best means of incurring their revenge. Those families who had been on most
intimate terms with them, were those who were massacred first and with the greatest atrocities.
The more frequently they had eaten salt with a pale-face, the more insatiable was their desire
for vengeance. The missionaries were generally spared, as the source through which they expected
pardon and supplies. The Indian was much too cunning to kill the goose that laid the golden
egg. The tribe do not object to the conversion of individuals. Saying prayers does not interfere
with their ideas of their own importance. Preachers do not labor with their hands, and Indians
can join the clerical order or get religion, without losing caste, for labor to them is pollution.

Two wagon loads of arms and ammunition en route for Hole-in-the-day, were intercepted during
the massacre, and for want of them he was induced to keep quiet. For being such a good Indian,
he had a triumphal trip to Washington at government expense, got ten thousand dollars, and
a seventh wife.

CHAPTER L.

A MISSIVE AND A MISSION.

Soon after the people had returned to such homes as were left them, I received a letter from
General Lowrie, who was then in an insane asylum in Cincinnati. I caught his humor and answered
as carefully as if he had been a sick brother, gave an extract in the Democrat, accompanied
by a notice, and sent him a copy; after which he wrote frequently, and I tried earnestly to
soothe him. In one of his letters was this passage:

"Your quarrel and mine was all wrong. There was no one in that upper country capable of understanding
you but me, no one capable of understanding me, but you. We should have been friends, and would
have been, if we had not each had a self which we were all too anxious to defend."

After the Sioux had finished their work of horror, Minnesota men, aided by volunteers from
Iowa and Wisconsin, pursued and captured the murderers of one thousand men, women and children;
tried them, found them guilty, and proposed to hang them just as if they had been white murderers.
But when the general government interfered and took the prisoners out of the hands of the State
authorities, and when it became evident that Eastern people endorsed the massacre and condemned
the victims as sinners who deserved their fate, one of the State officers proposed that I should
go East, try to counteract the vicious public sentiment, and aid our Congressional delegation
in their effort to induce the Administration either to hang the Sioux murderers, or hold them
as hostages during the war.

To me this was a providential call, for I had been planning to make a home in the East, that
our daughter, then old enough to live without me, might spend a portion of her time with her
father.

With letters from all our State officers, I left my Minnesota home at four o'clock A.M., January
2nd, '63, leaving the Democrat in charge of my first apprentice, William B. Mitchell.

In Washington, the Minnesota delegation secured the use of Dr. Sutherland's church, and a packed
audience for my lecture on Indians. It was enthusiastically applauded, and for a time I did
hope for some security for women and children on the frontier; but the Secretary of the Interior
assured me it was not worth while to see the President, for "Mr. Lincoln will hang nobody!"
and our Minnesota delegation agreed with him. Indeed, there was such a furor of pious pity
for the poor injured Sioux, such admiration for their long suffering patience under wrong,
and final heroic resistance, that I might about as well have tried to row myself from the head
of Goat Island up the rapids of Niagara, as stem that current. The ring which makes money by
caudling Indians, had the ear of both President and people, and the Bureau had a paying contract
in proving Little Crow's sagacity. The Sioux never were so well supplied with blankets and
butcher-knives, as when they received their reward for that massacre; never had so many prayers
said and hymns sung over them, and their steamboat ride down the Minnesota and Mississippi
and up the Missouri, to a point within two days' walk of the scene of their exploits, furnished
them an excursion of about two thousand miles, and left them well prepared for future operations.
They appreciated their good fortune, have been a terror to United States troops and Western
settlers ever since, and have enjoyed their triumph to the full.

One morning Senator Wilkinson and I went to see the President, and in the vestibule of the
White House met two gentlemen whom he introduced as Sec. Stanton and Gen. Fremont. The first
said he needed no introduction, and I said I had asked Senator Wilkinson to see him on my account.
He replied:

"Do not ask any one to see me! If you want anything from me, come yourself. No one can have
more influence."

Gen. Fremont inquired where I was staying, and said he would call on me. This frightened me,
and I felt like running away. But they were so kind and cordial that our short chat is a pleasant
memory; but Mr. Wilkinson and I failed to see Mr. Lincoln. Next day Sec. Stanton gave me an
appointment in the Quarter Master General's office, but there was no place for me to go to work.

Gen. Fremont called at the houses of two friends where I was visiting, but both times I was
absent. In 1850 I had also missed the calls of his wife and sister, and so I seemed destined
never to meet the people I admired above all others.

My friends wished me to attend a Presidential reception; but it was useless to see Mr. Lincoln
on the business which brought me to Washington, and I did not care to see him on any other.
He had proved an obstructionist instead of an abolitionist, and I felt no respect for him;
while his wife was every where spoken of as a Southern woman with Southern sympathies--a conspirator
against the Union. I wanted nothing to do with the occupants of the White House, but was told
I could go and see the spectacle without being presented. So I went in my broadcloth traveling
dress, and lest there should be trouble about my early leave-taking, would not trust my cloak
to the servants, but walked through the hall with it over my arm. I watched the President and
Mrs. Lincoln receive. His sad, earnest, honest face was irresistible in its plea for confidence,
and Mrs. Lincoln's manner was so simple and motherly, so unlike that of all Southern women
I had seen, that I doubted the tales I had heard. Her head was not that of a conspirator. She
would be incapable of a successful deceit, and whatever her purposes were, they must be known
to all who knew her.

Mr. Lincoln stood going through one of those, dreadful ordeals of hand-shaking, working like
a man pumping for life on a sinking vessel, and I was filled with indignation for the selfish
people who made this useless drain on his nervous force. I wanted to stand between him and
them, and say, "stand back, and let him live and do his work." But I could not resist going
to him with the rest of the crowd, and when he took my hand I said:

"May the Lord have mercy on you, poor man, for the people have none." He laughed heartily,
and the men around him, joined in his merriment. When I came to Mrs. Lincoln, she did not catch
the name at first, and asked to hear it again, then repeated it, and a sudden glow of pleasure
lit her face, as she held out her hand and said how very glad she was to see me. I objected
to giving her my hand because my black glove would soil her white one; but she said:

"Then I shall preserve the glove to remember a great pleasure, for I have long wished to see you."

My escort was more surprised than I by her unusual cordiality, and said afterwards:

"It was no polite affectation. I cannot understand it from her."

I understood at once that I had met one with whom I was in sympathy. No politeness could have
summoned that sudden flash of pleasure. Her manner was too simple and natural to have any art
in it; and why should she have pretended a friendship she did not feel? Abolitionists were
at a discount. They had gone like the front ranks of the French cavalry at Waterloo, into the
sunken way, to make a bridge, over which moderate men were rushing to honors and emoluments.
Gideon's army had done its work, and given place to the camp followers, who gathered up the
spoils of victory. None wore so poor that they need do them reverence, and I recognized Mrs.
Lincoln as a loyal, liberty-loving woman, more staunch even than her husband in opposition
to the Rebellion and its cause, and as my very dear friend for life.

CHAPTER LI.

NO USE FOR ME AMONG THE WOUNDED.

I had not thought, even after deciding to remain in Washington, of doing any hospital work--knew
nothing about it; and in strength was more like a patient than a nurse; but while I waited
for a summons to go to the duties of my clerkship, I met some ladies interested in hospitals.

One of these, Mrs. Thayer, had an ambulance at her command, and took me for a day's visiting
among the forts, on a day when it was known that our armies in Virginia were engaged with the
enemy. The roads were almost impassable, and as a skillful driver and two good horses used
their best efforts to take us from place to place, I felt like a thief; that ambulance ought
to be at the front, and us with it, or on our knees pleading for the men whose breasts were
a living wall between us and danger, between Liberty and her deadly foes.

The men in the forts had no special need of us, and sometimes their thanks for the tracts we
brought them, gave an impulse to strike them square in the face, but Mrs. Thayer was happy
in her work, and thought me uncivil to her friends.

We reached the last fort on our round before I saw anything interesting; and here a sorrowful
woman drew me aside to tell me of the two weeks she had spent with her husband, now in the
last stage of camp-fever, and of her fruitless efforts to get sufficient straw for his bed,
while the bones were cutting through the skin as he lay on the slats of his cot. She wrung
her hands in a strange, suppressed agony, and exclaimed "Oh! If they had only let me take him
home when I came first; but say nothing here, or they will not let me stay."

I verified her statement of her husband's condition, so that I could speak from observation
without compromising her, and spoke to the surgeon, who politely regretted the scarcity of
straw, and hoped to get some soon.

I returned to the sufferer, who was from New Hampshire, and a very intelligent man; and after
talking with him and his wife, concluded to look up the commander of that fort, and put some
powder and a lighted match into his ear; but first consulted Mrs. Thayer, who begged me to
take no notice, else she would no longer be permitted to visit the fort. She had introduced
me to two fashionably dressed ladies, officers' wifes, resident there; and when I must say
or do nothing about this man, lest I should destroy Mrs. Thayer's opportunity for doing good,
I concluded we had discovered a new variety of savage, and came away thinking I could do something
in the city.

Next morning I stated the case to Miss Dix, who was neither shocked nor surprised. I had never
before seen her, but her tall, angular person, very red face, and totally unsympathetic manner,
chilled me. The best ambulance in the service was exclusively devoted to her use, and I thought
she would surely go or send a bed to that man before noon; but she proposed to do nothing of
the kind, had engagements for the day, which seemed to me of small import compared to that
of placing that man on a comfortable bed; but she could do nothing that day, by reason of these
engagements, and nothing next day, it being Sunday, on which day she attended to no business.
We spoke of the great battle then in progress, and I tendered my services, could take no regular
appointment, would want no pay, could not work long; but might be of use in an emergency! Emergencies
were things of which she had no conception. Everything in her world moved by rule, and her
arrangements were complete. She had sent eight nurses to the front, and more could only be
in the way.

I inquired about hospital supplies, and she grew almost enthusiastic in explaining the uselessness,
nay, absurdity, of sending any. Government furnished everything that could possibly be wanted.
The Sanitary and Christian Commissioners were all a mistake; Soldiers' Aid Societies a delusion
and a snare. She was burdened with stores sent to her for which there was no use; and she hoped
I would use my influence to stop the business of sending supplies.

From her I went direct to the Sanitary Commission, and found a large house full of salaried
clerks and porters, and boxes, and bails, although this was not their storehouse.

Here again I stated the case of the man without a bed, and found listeners neither surprised
nor shocked. Every one seemed quite familiar with trifles of that nature, and by and by, I,
too, would look upon them with, indifference.

I do not remember whether it was Saturday engagements, or Sunday sanctity, or lack of jurisdiction,
which barred the Commission from interference; but think they must wait until the fort surgeon
sent a requisition.

I inquired here about hospital stores, and found there was great demand for everything, especially
money. They declined my services in every capacity save that of inducing the public to hurry
forward funds and supplies. I told them of Miss Dix's opinion on that subject, and they agreed
that it was quite useless to send anything to her, since she used nothing she received, and
would not permit any one else to use stores.

Late in the next week Mrs. Thayer came, in great tribulation, to know how I ever could have
done so foolish and useless a thing as report that case to Miss Dix! Oh dear! Oh dear! It was
so unwise!

Miss Dix had gone to the fort on Monday, taken the surgeon to task about that bed, gave me
as her authority, and for me Mrs. Thayer was responsible, and would be excluded from that fort
on account of my indiscretion. There was another standing quarrel between the directress of
nurses and the surgeons. The bitterness engendered would all be visited upon the patients,
and it was so deplorable to think I had been so imprudent.

Her distress was so real, and she was so real in her desire to do good, that I felt myself
quite a culprit, especially as the man got no bed, and died on his slats.

I was so lectured and warned about the sin of this, my first offense, in telling that which
"folk wad secret keep" in hospital management, that I was afraid to go to another, lest I should
get some one into trouble; so stayed at home while the Washington hospitals were being filled
with wounded from the battle of Chancellorville. I think it was the afternoon of the second
Sabbath that I went with Mrs. Kelsey to visit Campbell, to get material for a letter, and tendered
my services, but their arrangements were complete. Passing through the wards it did indeed
seem as if nothing was wanting.

As a matter of form, I asked James Bride, of Wisconsin, if there was anything I could do for
him, was surprised to see him hesitate, and astounded to have him answer:

"Well, nothing particular, unless"--he stopped and picked at the coverlid--"unless you could
get us something to quench thirst."

"Something to quench thirst? Why, I have been told you have everything you can possibly require!"

"Well, they are very good to us, and do all they can; but it gets very hot in here in the afternoons,
we cannot go out into the shade, and get so thirsty. Drinking so much water makes us sick,
and if we had something a little sour!"

"But, would they let me bring you anything?"

"O yes! I see ladies bring things every day."

"Then I shall be glad to bring you something tomorrow."

CHAPTER LII.

FIND WORK.

That morning I wrote to the New York Tribune, relating the incident of the man asking for cooling
drinks, and saying that if people furnished the material, I would devote my time to distributing
their gifts. Next morning I got two dozen lemons, pressed the juice into a jar, put in sugar,
took a glass and spoon and, so soon as visitors were admitted, began giving lemonade to those
men who seemed to have most need. Going to the water tank for every glass of water made it
slow work, but I improved my walks by talking to the men, hearing their wants and adding to
their stock of hope and cheerfulness, and was glad to see that the nurses did not seem to object
to my presence, even though Campbell was the one only hospital in the city from which female
nurses were rigorously excluded.

So noted had it become for the masculine pride of its management, that I had been warned not
to stay past the length of an ordinary visit, lest I should be roughly told to go away; and
my surprise was equal to my pleasure, when a man came and said:

"Would it not be easier for you if you had a pitcher?"

I said it would, but that I lived too far away to bring one.

"Oh! I will bring you a pitcher! Why did you not ask for one?"

"I did not want to trouble you, for they told me you did not like to have women here." He laughed,
and said: "I guess we'll all be glad enough to have you! Not many of your sort. First thing
they all do is to begin to make trouble, and it always takes two men to wait on one of them."

He brought the pitcher, and I felt that I was getting on in the world. Still I was very humble
and careful to win the favor of "the King's Chamberlain"--those potencies, the nurses, who
might report me to that Royal woman-hater, Dr. Baxter, surgeon in charge, whose name was a
terror to women who intruded themselves into military hospitals.

As I passed, with my pitcher, I saw one man delerious, and expectorating, profusely, a matter
green as grass could be--knew this was hospital gangrene, and remembered all Dr. Palmer had
told me years before, of his experience in Paris hospitals, and the antidotes to that and scurvey
poison. Indeed, the results of many conversations with first-class physicians, and of some
reading on the subject of camp diseases, came to me; and I knew just what was wanted here,
but saw no sign that the want was likely to be supplied. For this man it was too late, but
I could not see that anything was being done to prevent the spread of this fearful scourge.

Passing from that ward into the one adjoining, I came suddenly upon two nurses dressing a thigh
stump, while the patient filled the air with half-suppressed shrieks and groans. I had never
before seen a stump, but remembered Dr. Jackson's lecture over the watermellon at desert, on
amputation, for the benefit of Charles Sumner; and electricity never brought light quicker
than there came to me the memory of all he had said about the proper arrangement of the muscles
over the end of the bone; and added to this, came a perfect knowledge of the relations of those
mangled muscles to the general form of the body. I saw that the nurse who held the stump tortured
the man by disregarding natural law, and setting down pitcher and glass on the floor, I stepped
up, knelt, slipped my hands under the remains of that strong thigh, and said to the man who
held it:

"Now, slip out your hands! easy! easy! there!" The instant it rested on my hands the groans
ceased, and I said:

"Is that better?"

"Oh, my God! yes!"

"Well, then, I will always hold it when it is dressed!"

"But you will not be here!"

"I will come!"

"That would be too much trouble!"

"I have nothing else to do, and will think it no trouble!"

The nurse, who did the dressing, was very gentle, and there was no more pain; but I saw that
the other leg was amputated below the knee, and this was a double reason why he should be tenderly
cared for. So I took the nurse aside, and asked when the wounds were to be dressed again. He
said in the morning, and promised to wait until I came to help. Next morning I was so much
afraid of being late that I would not wait for the street cars to begin running, but walked.
The guard objected to admitting me, as it was not time for visitors, but I explained and he
let me pass. I must not go through the wards at that hour, so went around and came in by the
door near which he lay. What was my surprise to find that not only were his wounds dressed,
but that all his clothing and bed had been changed, and everything about him made as white
and neat and square as if he were a corpse, which he more resembled than a living man. Oh,
what a tribute of agony he had paid to the demon of appearance! We all pay heavy taxes to other
people's eyes; but on none is the levy quite so onerous as on the patients of a model hospital!
I saw that he breathed and slept, and knew his time was short; but sought the head nurse, and
asked why he had not waited for me; he hesitated, stammered, blushed and said:

"Why, the fact is, sister, he has another wound that it would not be pleasant for you to see."

"Do you mean that that man has a groin wound in addition to all else?"

"Yes, sister! yes! and I thought--"

"No matter what you thought, you have tortured him to save your mock-modesty and mine. You
could have dressed that other wound, covered him, and let me hold the stump. You saw what relief
it gave him yesterday. How could you--how dare you torture him?"

"Well, sister, I have been in hospitals with sisters a great deal, and they never help to dress
wounds. I thought you would not get leave to come. Would not like to."

"I am not a sister, I am a mother; and that man had suffered enough. Oh, how dared you? how
dared you to do such a thing?" I wrung my hands, and he trembled like a leaf, and said.

"It was wrong, but I did not know. I never saw a sister before--"

"I tell you I am no sister, and I cannot think whatever your sisters are good for."

He promised to let me help him whenever it would save pain, and I returned to the dying man.
The sun shone and birds sang. He stirred, opened his eyes, smiled to see me, and said.

"It is a lovely morning, and I will soon be gone."

I said, "Yes; the winter of your life is past; for you the reign of sorrow is over and gone;
the spring time appears on the earth, and the time for the singing of birds has come; your
immortal summer is close at hand; Christ, who loveth us, and has suffered for us, has prepared
mansions of rest, for those who love him, and you are going soon."

"Oh, yes; I know he will take me home, and provide for my wife and children when I am gone."

"Then all is well with you!" He told me his name and residence, in Pittsburg, and I remembered
that his parents lived our near neighbors when I was a child. So, more than ever, I regretted
that I could not have made his passage through the dark valley one of less pain; but it was
a comfort to his wife to know I had been with him.

When he slept again, I got a slightly wounded man to sit by him and keep away the flies, while
I went to distribute some delicacies brought to him by visitors, and which he would never need.

At the door of Ward Three, a large man stood, and seemed to be an officer. I asked him if there
were any patients in that ward who would need wine penado. He looked down at me, pleasantly,
and said:

"I think it very likely, madam, for it is a very bad ward."

It was indeed a very bad ward, for a settled gloom lay upon the faces of the occupants, who
suffered because the ward-master and entire set of nurses had recently been discharged, and
new, incompetent men appointed in their places.

As I passed down, turning from right to left, to give to such men as needed it the mild stimulant
I had brought, I saw how sad and hopeless they were; only one man seemed inclined to talk,
and he sat near the centre of the ward, while some one dressed his shoulder from which the
arm had been carried away by a cannon ball. A group of men stood around him, talking of that
strange amputation, and he was full of chat and cheerfulness.

They called him Charlie; but my attention was quickly drawn to a young man, on a cot, close
by, who was suffering torture from the awkwardness of a nurse who was dressing a large, flesh-wound
on the outside of his right thigh.

I set my bowl on the floor, caught the nurse's wrist, lifted his hand away, and said:

"Oh, stop! you are hurting that man! Let me do that!"

He replied, pleasantly,

"I'll be very glad to, for I'm a green hand!"

I took his place; saw the wounded flesh creep at the touch of cold water, and said: "Cold water
hurts you!"

"Yes ma'am; a little!"

"Then we must have some warm!" But nurse said there was none.

"No warm water?" I exclaimed, as I drew back and looked at him, in blank astonishment.

"No, ma'am! there's no warm water!"

"How many wounded men have you in this hospital?"

"Well, about seven hundred, I believe."

"About seven hundred wounded men, and no warm water! So none of them get anything to eat!"

"Oh, yes! they get plenty to eat."

"And how do you cook without warm water?"

"Why, there's plenty of hot water in the kitchen, but we're not allowed to go there, and we
have none in the wards."

"Where is the kitchen?"

He directed me. I covered the wound--told the patient to wait and I would get warm water. In
the kitchen a dozen cooks stopped to stare at me, but one gave me what I came for, and on returning
to the ward I said to Charlie:

"Now you can have some warm water, if you want it."

"But I do not want it! I like cold water best!"

"Then it is best for you, but it is not best for this man!"

I had never before seen any such wound as the one I was dressing, but I could think of but
one way--clean it thoroughly, put on clean lint and rags and bandages, without hurting the
patient, and this was very easy to do; but while I did this, I wanted to do something more,
viz.: dispel the gloom which hung over that ward. I knew that sick folks should have their
minds occupied by pleasant thoughts, and never addressed an audience with more care than I
talked to that one man, in appearance, while really talking to all those who lay before me
and some to whom my back was turned.

I could modulate my voice so as to be heard at quite a distance, and yet cause no jar to very
sensitive nerves close at hand; and when I told my patient that I proposed to punish him now,
while he was in my power, all heard and wondered; then every one was stimulated to learn that
it was to keep him humble, because, having received such a wound in the charge on Marie's Hill,
he would be so proud by and by that common folks would be afraid to speak to him. I should
be quite thrown into the shade by his laurels, and should probably take my revenge in advance
by sticking pins in him now, when he could not help himself.

This idea proved to be quite amusing, and before I had secured that bandage, the men seemed
to have forgotten their wounds, except as a source of future pride, and were firing jokes at
each other as rapidly as they had done bullets at the enemy. When, therefore, I proposed sticking
pins into any one else who desired such punishment, there was quite a demand for my services,
and with my basin of tepid water I started to wet the hard, dry dressings, and leave them to
soften before being removed. Before night I discovered that lint is an instrument of incalculable
torture, and should never be used, as either blood or pus quickly converts some portion of
it into splints, as irritating as a pine shaving.

CHAPTER LIII.

HOSPITAL GANGRENE.

About nine o'clock I returned to the man I had come to help, and found that he still slept.
I hoped he might rouse and have some further message for his wife, before death had finished
his work, and so remained with him, although I was much needed in the "very bad ward."

I had sat by him but a few moments when I noticed a green shade on his face. It darkened, and
his breathing grew labored--then ceased. I think it was not more than twenty minutes from the
time I observed the green tinge until he was gone. This cane has been handed down to the various
incumbents of this office since the days of Dr. John Radcliffe, who was the first holder of
the cane. It has been used for two hundred years or more by the greatest physicians and surgeons
in the world, who succeeded to it. "The Gold Headed Cane" was adorned by a cross-bar at the top
instead of a knob.

The fact is explained by Munk, in that Radcliffe, the first owner,
was a rule unto himself and possibly preferred this device as a mark
of distinction beyond the knob used by physicians in general.

Men of genius now and then have found in their choice of a cane an
opportunity for the play of their eccentricity, such a celebrated
cane being the tall wand of Whistler.

Among the relics of great men preserved in museums for the inspiration
of the people canes generally are to be found.

We have all looked upon the cane of George Washington at Mount Vernon
and the walking-stick of Carlyle in Cheyne Walk.

And is each not eloquent of the man who cherished it?

Freak canes are displayed here and there by persons of a pleasantly
bizarre turn of mind: canes encased in the hide of an elephant's tail,
canes that have been intricately carven by some Robinson Crusoe, or
canes of various other such species of curiosity.

There is a veteran New York journalist who will be glad to show any
student of canes one which he prizes highly that was made from the
limb of a tree upon which a friend of his was hanged.

In our age of handy inventions a type of cane is manufactured in
combination with an umbrella.

Canes are among the useful properties of the theatre. He would be a decidedly incomplete villain
who did not carry a cane. Imaginative literature is rich in canes.

Who ever heard of a fairy godmother without a cane?

Who with any feeling for terror has not been startled by the tap, tap of the cane of old Pew in
"Treasure Island"?

There is an awe and a pathos in canes, too, for they are the light to blind men. And the romance
of canes is further illustrated in this: they, with rags and the wallet, have been among the
traditional accoutrements of beggars, the insignia of the "dignity
springing from the very depth of desolation; as, to be naked is to
be so much nearer to the being a man, than to go in livery."

J. M. Barrie was so fond of an anecdote of a cane that he employed it several times in his
earlier fiction. This was the story of a young man who had a cane with a loose knob, which in
society he would slyly shake so that it tumbled off, when he would exclaim: "Yes, that cane is
like myself; it always loses its head in the presence of ladies."

Canes have figured prominently in humour. The Irishman's shillelagh was for years a conspicuous feature
of the comic press.

And there will instantly come to every one's mind that immortal passage
in "Tristram Shandy."

Canes
are not absent from poetry. Into your ears already has come the refrain
of "The Last Leaf": "And totters o'er the ground, With his cane."

And,
doubtless, floods of instances of canes that the world will not willingly
let die will occur to one upon a moment's reflection.

Canes are inseparable from art. All artists carry them; and the poorer
the artist the more attached is he to his cane.

Canes are indispensable to the simple vanity of the Bohemian.

One of the most memorable drawings of Steinlen depicts the quaint soul of a child of the Latin Quarter:
an elderly Bohemian, very much frayed, advances wreathed in the sunshine
of his boutonniere and cane.

Canes are invariably an accompaniment of learning. Sylvester Bonnard would of course not be without
his cane; nor would any other true book-worm, as may be seen any
day in the reading-room of the British Museum and of the New York
Public Library.

It is, indeed, indisputable that canes, more than any other article
of dress, are peculiarly related to the mind.

There is an old book-seller on Fourth Avenue whose clothes when he dies, like the boots of Michelangelo,
probably will require to be pried loose from him, so incessantly has he worn them within the
memory of man. None has ever looked upon him in the open air without his cane. And is not that emblem
of omniscience and authority, the schoolmaster's ferule, directly
of the cane family?

So large has the cane loomed in the matter of chastisement that the
word cane has become a verb, to cane. There was (in the days before
the war) a military man (friend of mine), a military man of the old school,
in whom could be seen, shining like a flame, a man's great love of
a cane.

He had lived a portion of his life in South America, and he used to promenade every pleasant afternoon
up and down the Avenue swinging a sharply pointed, steel-ferruled
swagger-stick.

"What's the use of carrying that ridiculous thing around town?" some
one said to him one day.

"That!" he rumbled in reply (he was one of the roarers among men), "why,
that's to stab scorpions with." They've buried him, I heard, in Flanders;
on his breast (I hope), his cane.

"When a Red Cross platoon," says a news despatch of the other day,
"was advancing to the aid of scores of wounded men. Surgeon William J.
McCracken of the British Medical Corps ordered all to take cover,
and himself advanced through the enemy's fire, bearing a Red Cross
flag on his walking-stick."

Indeed, the Great War is one of the most thrilling, momentous and colourful
chapters in the history of canes.

"The officers picked up their canes," says the newspaper, and so forth, and so forth. Captain A.
Radclyffe Dugmore, in a spirited drawing of the Battle of the Somme,
shows an officer leading a charge waving a light cane.

As an emblem of rank the cane among our Allies has apparently supplanted
the sword.

Something of the dapper, cocky look of our brothers in arms on our streets undoubtedly is due to
their canes.

One never sees a British, French or Italian officer in the rotogravure sections without his cane.
We should be as startled to see General Haig or the Prince of Wales
without a cane as without a leg.

With our own soldiers the cane does not seem to be so much the thing,
at least over here.

I have a friend, however, who went away a private with a rifle over his shoulder. The other day
came news from him that he had become a sergeant, and, perhaps as proof of this, a photograph of
himself wearing a tin hat and with a cane in his hand. It is also to be observed now and then
that a lady in uniformed service appears to regard it as an added
military touch to swing a cane.

Women as well as men play their part in the colourful story of the
cane.

The shepherdess's crook might be regarded as the precursor of canes for
ladies.

In Merrie England in the age when the May-pole flourished it was fashionable,
we know from pictures, for comely misses and grandes dames to sport
tall canes mounted with silver or gold and knotted with a bow of
ribbon.

The dowager duchess of romantic story has always appeared leaning upon
her cane.

Do not we so see the rich aunt of Hawden Crawley? And Mr. Walpole's Duchess of Wrexe, certainly,
was supported in her domination of the old order of things by a cane.
The historic old croons of our own early days smoked a clay or a corn-cob
pipe and went bent upon a cane.

In England to-day it is swagger for women to carry sticks-- in the country. And here the thoughtful
spectator of the human scene notes a nice point.

It is not etiquette, according to English manners, for a woman to
carry a cane in town.

Some American ladies who admire and would emulate English customs have
not been made acquainted with this delicate nuance of taste, and
so are very unfashionable when they would be ultra-fashionable.

Anybody returning from the Alps should bring back an Alpine stock
with him; every one who has visited Ireland upon his return has presented
some close friend with a blackthorn stick; nobody has made a walking
tour of England without an ash stick.

In London all adult males above the rank of costers carry "sticks";
in New York sticks are customary with many who would be ashamed to
assume them did they live in the Middle West, where the infrequent
sticks to be seen upon the city streets are in many cases the sign
of transient mummers.

And yet it is a curious fact that in communities where the stick
is conspicuously absent from the streets it is commonly displayed
in show-windows, in company with cheap suits and decidedly loud gloves.

Another odd circumstance is this: trashy little canes hawked by sidewalk venders generally appear with
the advent of toy balloons for sale on days of big parades. In Jamaica, Long Island, the visitor
would probably see canes in the hands only of prosperous coloured
gentlemen.

And than this fact probably nothing throws more light on the winning
nature of the coloured race, and on the character and function of
canes.

In San Francisco-- but the adequate story, the Sartor Resartus-- the World as Canes, remains
to be written. This, of course, is the merest essay into this vast
and significant subject.

I THE FISH REPORTER Men of genius, blown by the winds of chance,
have been, now and then, mariners, bar-keeps, schoolmasters, soldiers,
politicians, clergymen, and what not.

And from these pursuits have they sucked the essence of yarns and
in the setting of these activities found a flavour to stir and to charm hearts
untold. Now, it is a thousand pities that no man of genius has ever
been a fish reporter.

Thus has the world lost great literary treasure, as it is highly probable that there is not
under the sun any prospect so filled with the scents and colours
of story as that presented by the commerce in fish. Take whale oil.
Take the funny old buildings on Front Street, out of paintings, I
declare, by Howard Pyle, where the large merchants in whale oil are.

Take salt fish. Do you know the oldest salt-fish house in America,
down by Coenties Slip? Ah! you should. The ghost of old Long John
Silver, I suspect, smokes an occasional pipe in that old place.

And many are the times I've seen the slim shade of young Jim Hawkins come
running out. Take Labrador cod for export to the Mediterranean lands
or to Porto Rico via New York.

Take herrings brought to this port from Iceland, from Holland, and from
Scotland; mackerel from Ireland, from the Magdalen Islands, and from
Cape Breton; crabmeat from Japan; fishballs from Scandinavia; sardines
from Norway and from France; caviar from Russia; shrimp which comes
from Florida, Mississippi, and Georgia, or salmon from Alaska, and
Puget Sound, and the Columbia River.

Take the obituaries of fishermen. "In his prime, it is said, there was
not a better skipper in the Gloucester fishing fleet." Take disasters
to schooners, smacks, and trawlers.

"The crew were landed, but lost all their belongings." New vessels,
sales, etc. "The sealing schooner Tillie B., whose career in the
South Seas is well known, is reported to have been sold to a moving-picture
firm."

Sponges from the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico. "To most people,
familiar only with the sponges of the shops, the animal as it comes
from the sea would be rather unrecognisable."

Why, take anything you please!

It is such stuff as stories are.

And as you eat your fish from the store how little do you reck of the glamour of what you are doing! However,
as it seems to me unlikely that a man of genius will be a fish reporter shortly I will myself do the
best I can to paint the tapestry of the scenes of his calling. The
advertisement in the newspaper read: "Wanted-- Reporter for weekly
trade paper."

Many called, but I was chosen. Though, doubtless, no man living knew less about fish than I. The
news stands are each like a fair, so laden are they with magazines
in bright colours. It would seem almost as if there were a different
magazine for every few hundred and seven-tenth person, as the statistics
put these matters.

And yet, it seems, there is a vast, a very vast, periodical literature of which we, that is, magazine
readers in general, know nothing whatever.

There is, for one, that fine, old, standard publication, Barrel and Box, devoted to the subjects
and the interests of the coopering industry; there is, too, The Dried Fruit Packer and Western
Canner, as alert a magazine as one could wish-- in its kind; and from the home of classic American literature
comes The New England Tradesman and Grocer. And so on. At the place
alone where we went to press twenty-seven trade journals were printed
every week, from one for butchers to one for bankers.

The Fish Industries Gazette-- Ah, yes! For some reason not clear (though
it is an engaging thing, I think) the word "gazette" is the great word
among the titles of trade journals. There are The Jewellers'Gazette
and The Women's Wear Gazette and The Poulterers'Gazette (of London), and
The Maritime Gazette (of Halifax), and other gazettes quite without
number.

This word "gazette" makes its appeal, too, curiously enough, to those
who christen country papers; and trade journals have much of the intimate
charm of country papers.

The "trade" in each case is a kind of neighbourly community, separated
in its parts by space, but joined in unity of sympathy.

"Personals" are a vital feature of trade papers. "Walter Conner, who for some time has conducted
a bakery and fish market at Hudson, N. Y., has removed to Fort Edward, leaving his brother
Ed in charge at the Hudson place of business." The Fish Industries Gazette,
as I say, was one of several in its field, in friendly rivalry with
The Oyster Trade and Fisherman and The Pacific Fisheries.

It comprized two departments: the fresh fish and oyster department,
and myself.

I was, as an editorial announcement said at the beginning of my tenure of office, a "reorganisation
of our salt, smoked, and pickled fish department."

The delectable, mellow spirit of the country paper, so removed from the crash and whirr of
metropolitan journalism, rested in this, too, that upon the Gazette
I did practically everything on the paper except the linotyping.

Reporter, editorial writer, exchange editor, make-up man, proof-reader, correspondent, advertisement
solicitor, was I. As exchange editor, did I read all the papers in
the English language in eager search of fish news.

And while you are about the matter, just find me a finer bit of literary
style evoking the romance of the vast wastes of the moving sea, in
Stevenson, Defoe, anywhere you please, than such a news item as this:
"Capt. Ezra Pound, of the bark Elnora, of Salem, Mass., spoke a lonely
vessel in latitude this and longitude that, September 8.

She proved to be the whaler Wanderer, and her captain said that she
had been nine months at sea, that all on board were well, and that
he had stocked so many barrels of whale oil."

As exchange editor was it my business to peruse reports from Eastport,
Maine, to the effect that one of the worst storms in recent years
had destroyed large numbers of the sardine weirs there.

To seek fish recipes, of such savoury sound as those for "broiled redsnapper,"
"shrimps bordelaise," and "baked fish croquettes."

To follow fishing conditions in the North Sea occasioned by the Great War. To hunt down jokes of
piscatory humour. "The man who drinks like a fish does not take kindly to water.-- Exchange."
To find other "fillers" in the consular reports and elsewhere: "Fish culture
in India," "1800 Miles in a Dory," "Chinese Carp for the Philippines,"
"Americans as Fish Eaters."

And, to use a favourite term of trade papers, "etc., etc." Then to "paste up" the winnowed fruits
of this beguiling research.

Maybe my sad face made this funny, for their sense of the ridiculous was so touched that they
clasped their sore heads and shrieked with laughter. Every man in the ward caught the infection,
and I was called upon for explanations of the art of amputating heads, and inquiries as to
Surgeon Baxter's capacity of performing the operation.

This grotesque idea proved a fruitful subject of conversation, and aided in leading sufferers
away from useless sorrow, toward hope and health; and bad as the ward was we lost but two men
in it.

CHAPTER LVII.

HOSPITAL DRESS.

In that sad ward one superior, intelligent young man, who was thought to be doing well, suddenly
burst an artery, and ropes were put up to warn visitors and others not to come in, and we who
were in, moved with bated breath lest some motion should start the life-current. While his
last hope was on a stillness which forbade him to move a finger, two lady visitors came to
the door, were forbidden to enter, but seeing me inside, must follow the sheep instinct of
the sex, and go where any other woman had gone. So, with pert words, they forced their way
in, made a general flutter, and, oh horror! one of them caught her hoops on the iron cot of
the dying man. He was only saved from a severe jerk by the prompt intervention of the special
nurse. They were led out as quietly as possible, but the man had received a slight jerk and
a serious shock. The hemorrhage would probably have returned if they had not come in, but it
did return, and the young, strong life ebbed steadily away in a crimson current which spread
over the floor.

From that day until the end of my hospital work, one fact forced itself upon my attention,
and this is, that with all the patriotism of the American women, during that war, and all their
gush of sympathy for the soldier, a vast majority were much more willing to "kiss him for his
mother" than render him any solid service, and that not one in a hundred of the women who succeeded
in getting into hospitals would dress so as not to be an object of terror to men whose life
depended on quiet.

Women were capable of any heroism save wearing a dress suitable for hospital work. The very,
very few who laid aside their hoops, those instruments of dread and torture, generally donned
bloomers, and gave offense by airs of independence.

Good women would come long distances to see dying husbands, brothers and sons, and fill the
wards with alarm by their hoops. When any one was hurt by them they were very sorry, but never
gave up the cause of offense, while their desire to look well, and the finery and fixings they
donned to improve their appearance, was a very broad and painful burlesque. Women were seldom
permitted to stay in a hospital over night, even with a dying friend, and the inhabitants were
generally glad when they started for home.

It was the dress nuisance which caused nuns to have the preference in so many cases; but I
could not see or hear that they ever did anything but make converts to the church and take
care of clothing and jellies.

One thing is certain, i.e., that women never can do efficient and general service in hospitals
until their dress is prescribed by laws inexorable as those of the Medes and Persians. Then,
that dress should be entirely destitute of steel, starch, whale-bone, flounces, and ornaments
of all descriptions; should rest on the shoulders, have a skirt from the waist to the ankle,
and a waist which leaves room for breathing. I never could have done my hospital work but for
the dress which led most people to mistake me for a nun.

CHAPTER LVIII.

SPECIAL WORK.

In the wilderness of work I must choose, and began to select men who had been given up by the
surgeons, and whom I thought might be saved by special care. Surgeon Kelly soon entered into
my plan, and made his ward my headquarters. To it my special patients were brought, until there
was no more room for them. That intuitive perception of the natural position of muscles, and
the importance of keeping them in it, which came to me on first seeing a wound dressed, gave
me such control over pain that I used to go through the wards between midnight and morning
and put amputation cases to sleep at the rate of one in fifteen minutes.

In these morning walks I saw that the nurses were on duty and had substantial refreshments,
saw those changes for the worse, sure to come, if they came at all, in those chill hours. Seeing
them soon was important to meeting them successfully, and I succeeded in breaking up many a
chill before it did serious damage, which must have proved fatal if left until the morning
visit of the Surgeon. Also, in those walks I chose special cases; have more than once sat down
by a man and calculated in this way:

"You may have twenty, forty years of useful life, if I can save you; I shall certainly die
one year sooner for the labor I expend on you, but there will be a large gain in the average
of life and usefulness; and when you risked all of your life for the country as much mine as
yours, it is but just that I should give a small part of mine to save you."

Every man lived whom I elected to life, and Dr. Kelly, who knew more than any one else about
my plans, and on whom I most counted for aid, has said that I saved enough to the government
in bounty money, by returning men to duty who would otherwise have died, to warrant it in supporting
me the balance of my life; but his statements could not always be relied upon, for he insisted
that I never slept, had not been asleep during the seven weeks spent in Campbell, was a witch
and would float like a cork, if thrown from the Long Bridge into the Potomac.

In selecting a man in desperate case to be saved, I always took his temperament and previous
life into consideration. A man of pure life and sanguine temperament was hard to kill. Give
him the excuse of good nursing and he would live through injuries which must be fatal to a
bilious, suspicious man, or one who had been guilty of any excess. A tobacco chewer or smoker
died on small provocation. A drunkard or debauchee was killed by a scratch.

There were two ward surgeons who disapproved of the innovation of a woman in Campbell, and
especially of one held amenable to no rules. They were both in favor of heroic treatment, which
I did not care to witness, and I spent little time in their wards. One of them kept a man,
with two bricks tied to his foot and hanging over the foot of the bed, until he died, after
ten days of a sleepless agony such as could not well have been excelled in an Inquisition;
while his wife tried to comfort him under a torture she begged in vain to have remitted. The
night after she started home with his body, I was passing through the ward, when I came upon
a young Philadelphia Zouave in a perfect paroxysm of anguish. Three nurses stood around him,
and to my inquiry "What is the matter?" replied by dumb show that coming death was the matter,
and that soon all would be over; while in words they told me he had not slept for forty-eight
hours.

I had one place a chair for me, sat down, and with my long, thin hands grasped the thigh stump,
which was making all the trouble, drew and pressed the muscle into a natural, easy position,
cooed and talked and comforted the sufferer, as I should have done a sick baby, and in ten
minutes he was asleep.

Then I whispered the nurses to bring cotton and oakum, and little cushions; made them put the
cotton and oakum, in small tufts, to my index fingers; and while I crooned my directions in
a sing-song lullaby air, I worked in this support, gradually and imperceptibly withdrawing
my hands, until I could substitute the little cushions for the force by which they held the
muscle in proper position. This done, my boy-soldier slept as sweetly as ever he had done in
his crib.

Next morning a nurse came running for me to hurry to him. He had slept six hours, waked, had
his breakfast, and had his wound dressed, and now the pain was back bad as ever. I went, fixed
the mangled muscle with reference to his change of position, made a half-mould to hold it there,
and before I had finished he began an eight-hour sleep. Ten days after he was sent home to
his mother, and I saw or heard of him no more.

CHAPTER LIX.

HEROIC AND ANTI-HEROIC TREATMENT.

The other ward in which I was not welcome, adjoined that one in which my room was situated,
and to reach it I must go out of doors or pass through one-half the length of that ward. In
these passages I had an opportunity for studying Piemia and its ordinary treatment, and could
give the men lemonade when they wanted it.

In this ward lay a young German with a wounded ankle. He had a broad, square forehead, skin
white as wax, large blue eyes and yellow hair, inclined to curl. His whole appearance indicated
high culture, and an organization peculiarly sensitive to pleasure or pain; but no one seemed
to understand that he suffered more than others from a like cause.

Surgeon and nurses scoffed at his moans, and thought it babyish, for a muscular man over six
feet to show so many signs of pain. I think that from some cause, the surgeon felt vindictive
toward him, and that his subordinates took their cue from him. When I went to give him lemonade,
he would clutch my hand or dress, look up in my face, and plead:

"Oh, mutter! mutter!"

But if I sat down to soothe and comfort him, a nurse always came to remind me of the surgeon's
orders, and I used to go around on the outside, that he might not see and call me. When he
was in the amputation room I heard his shrieks and groans, and carried a glass of wine to the
door for him.

He heard my voice, and called "Mutter! mutter!"

I pushed past the orderly, ran to him, and his pleading eyes seemed to devour me as he fastened
his gaze on my face. I cannot think to this day why be should have been nude for the amputation
of a foot; but he was, and some one threw a towel across his loins as I approached.

Dr. Baxter said:

"No sympathy! no sympathy!"

So I stood by him, placed a hand on each side of his corrugated brow, steadied my voice and said:

"Be a man and a soldier!"

He had asked me for bread; I gave him a stone, and no wonder he dashed it back in my face.
With a fierce cry he said:

"I hev been a man and a sojer long enough!"

Ah! verily had he, and much too long. Days before that he should have been "a boy again;" aye,
a baby, a very infant--should have been soothed and softened and comforted with all the tenderness
of mother-love; but even now, in this cruel extremity, every sign of sympathy was denied him.
Some one put a hand gently but firmly on each of my shoulders, turned my back to him, took
me out of the room, and I hurried away, while the air shuddered with his shrieks and groans.
After he had been brought back to his place in the ward I could often hear him as I passed
to and from my room, and even while I occupied it.

Once he saw me through the open door, and called, "Mutter! mutter!"

I went, knelt by him, took his hands, which were stretched appealingly to me, and spoke comforting
words, while his blue eyes seemed ready to start from their sockets, as he clung to my hands
with the old familiar cry:

"Oh, Mutter! Mutter!"

He was strapped down to his iron cot, about as closely as he had been to the amputation table,
and the cot fastened to the floor. I had not been five minutes at his side when his special
nurse hurried up and warned me to leave, saying:

"It's surgeon's orders. He's not going to have any babyin'!"

I drew my hands from the frantic grasp, took away that last hold on human sympathy, and hurried
oat, while his cry of "Oh, mutter! mutter!" rung in my ears as I turned and looked on his pure
high brow for the last time.

Next morning I heard he had lock-jaw, and that the surgeon was to leave.

The night after that victim of some frightful, fiendish experiment had been carried to the
dead-house, I was passing through the ward, when attracted by sounds of convulsive weeping,
and I found a young man in an agony of grief, in one of those sobbing fits sure to come to
the bravest. He was in a high fever, and while I bathed his face and hands, I asked the cause
of his outbreak, and he sobbed:

"Oh, the pain in my wound! This is the third night I have not slept, and my God! I can bear
it no longer!"

It was a flesh-wound in the thigh, such an one as usually proved fatal, and while I set him
to talking I began patching scraps of observation into a theory. He was from Pennsylvania,
and bitterly charged his State with having done nothing for her wounded, and when I asked why
he had not sent for me, he said:

"Oh, I thought you were from Massachusetts, like all the rest of them; and if my own State
would do nothing for me, I would not beg. People come here every day looking for Massachusetts
soldiers. Since I have been frantic here, ladies have come and stood and looked at me, and
said 'Poor fellow!' as if I had been a dog. I was as well raised as any of them, even if I
am a common soldier."

I thought his recovery very doubtful, and talked to draw his thoughts to the better land. To
his charges against his native land, I said: "I am a Pennsylvanian; and more than that, the
Governor of Pennsylvania sent me to you; bade me come to-night, that you might know he had
not forgotten you."

"He did? Why, how did he know anything about it?"

"He just knows all about it, and has been caring for you all this time. I do not mean Andy
Curtin. He is nothing but a subaltern; but the dear Lord, our Father in Heaven, who never forgets
us, though he often afflicts us. He sent me to you now, that you might know he loves you. It
was he who made me love you and care to help you. All the love and care that come to you are
a part of his love."

"He wept afresh but less bitterly, and said:

"Oh you will think I am a baby!"

"Well! That is just what you ought to be. Your past life is sufficient certificate of manhood;
and now has come your time to be a baby, while I am mother. You have been lying here like an
engine, under a high pressure of steam, and the safety-value fastened down with a billet of
wood, until there has been almost an explosion. Now just take away that stick of wood--your
manhood and pride, and let out all the groans and tears you have pent in your heart. Cry all
you can! This is your time for crying!"

When I had talked him into a mood to let me feel if his feet were warm, I found that wounded
limb dreadfully swollen, cold almost as death, stretched out as he lay on his back, and a cushion
right under the heel. Had there been no wound the position must have been unendurable. Without
letting him know, I drew that cushion up until it filled the hollow between the heel and calf
of the leg, and supported the strained muscle, tucked a handful of oakum under the knee, moved
the toes, brushed and rubbed the foot, until circulation started, sponged it, rolled it in
flannel, of which I had a supply in my basket, washed the well foot, and put a warm woolen
sock on it, arranged the cover so that it would not rest on the toes of the sore leg; told
him to get the new surgeon next morning to make a large opening on the lower side of his thigh,
where the bullet had gone out--to ask him to cut lengthwise of the muscle; get out everything
he could, that ought not to be in there; keep that opening open with a roll of bandage, so
that old Mother Nature should have a trap-door through which she could throw her chips out
of that work-shop in his thigh; to be sure and not hint to the surgeon that I had said anything
about it, and not fail to have it done.

I left him asleep, and the next day he told me the surgeon had taken a quart of pus and several
pieces of woolen cloth out of his wound, and his recovery was rapid.

CHAPTER LX.

COST OF ORDER.

In making molds and rests for mangled limbs, I had large demands for little cushions, and without
economy could not get enough. When one just fitted a place I wanted to keep it, and to do this,
must have it aired, perhaps washed. To avoid lint dressings, I hunted pieces of soft, table
linen, gave to patients pieces to suit, and as the supply was short they would get nurses and
surgeons to leave their pieces of linen, after dressing their wounds until I should take charge,
and have them cleansed for next time. To do all this, I must use the grass-plats and railings
for airing and drying cushions and rags. These plats and railings were for ornament, and there
was soon a protest against putting them to "such vile uses." I had gone into the hospital with
the stupid notion that its primary object was the care and comfort of the sick and wounded.
It was long after that I learned that a vast majority of all benevolent institutions are gotten
up to gratify the asthetic tastes of the public; exhibit the wealth and generosity of the founders,
and furnish places for officers. The beneficiaries of the institutions are simply an apology
for their existence, and having furnished that apology, the less said about them the better.

The surgeons of Campbell did really want its patients to be happy and get well; but it was
a model institution, with a reputation to sustain; was part of a system under general laws,
which might not be broken with impunity. There was no law against a man dying for want of sleep
from pain caused by misplaced muscle; but the statutes against litter were inexorable as those
of the Medes and Persians. The Campbell surgeons winked at my litter, until one regular inspection
day, when my cushions and rags, clean and unclean, those marked John Smith, and those labeled
Tom Brown, were all huddled up and stuffed en masse into the pantry closet.

I used to wonder if the Creator had invented a new variety of idiot, and made a lot in order
to supply the army with medical inspectors, or, if by some cunning military device, the Surgeon-General
had been able to select all those conglomerations of official dignity and asinine stupidity,
from the open donkey-market of the world. Inspecting a hospital was just like investigating
an Indian fraud. The man whose work was to be inspected or investigated, met the inspector
or investigator at the door, showed him all he wished him to see and examine witnesses wholly
in his power--when the inspected and inspector, the investigated and investigator exchanged
compliments, and the public were gratified to learn that all was in a most gratifying condition
of perfect order.

One day we had a particularly searching inspection, and next day nurse told me of some four
new cases which had been brought in a week before, one of whom the inspectors said was past
hope. I found his feet and legs with, a crust on them like the shell of a snail; had a piece
of rubber cloth laid under them, and with tepid water, a good crash towel, and plenty of rubbing,
got down to the skin, which I rubbed well with lard. Then with fresh towels and water at hand,
I drew away the sheet in which the patient had rolled his head, and while I washed his head
and arms and breast, I talked, and he tried to answer; but it was some time before he could
steady his tongue and lips so as to articulate, and when he did, his first words were:

"Are you the woman that's been a-washin' my feet?"

"That is exactly what I have been doing, and much need they had of it. Do you not think you
are a pretty fellow to have me come all the way from Minnesota to wash your feet?"

It was with much effort he could fix his dazed eyes on my face, and he made several pitiful
attempts before he succeeded in saying:

"I think ye'r the best woman that ever I saw!"

"Ah, that is because you never saw much, away out there in Venango county, Pennsylvania, where
you live. There are thousands of better women than I, running around hunting work, in this
part of the country."

"Is there?"

"Yes, indeed; and nothing for them to do!"

"I never saw none uv 'em!"

"That is because you have had your head rolled up in that sheet. Just keep your head uncovered,
so you can breathe this nice, fresh air; open your eyes every little while, and you will see
a whole row of those women, all hunting work!"

He seemed quite interested, and when I had done washing and given directions to a nurse to
cleanse the balance of his person, I asked if there was anything more I could do for him, when
he stammered:

"Not unless you could get me a cup of tea--a cup of good green tea, 'thout any milk or sugar
in it. If you do, I'll pay you for it."

"Pay me for it, will you? and how much will you give me--three cents?"

"Oh, I'll give you twenty-five cents."

"Twenty-five cents for a cup of good green tea, without any milk or sugar in it!"

I called the ward to witness the bargain, said I should grow rich at that rate, and hurried
off for the tea.

I had a little silver tray and tea-set, with two china cups. Mrs. Gangewer, of the Ohio Aid
Society, had sent me a tin tea-kettle and spirit-lamp; folks at a distance had sent plenty
of the best tea; and that little tea-tray had become a prominent feature of Campbell long before
this poor fellow specified his want. I made the tray unusually attractive that day, and fed
him his tea from a spoon, while he admired the tiny pot, out of which, with the aid of the
kettle, I could furnish twenty cups of good tea. When I had served all in that ward who wanted
tea, the first one took a second cup, and while taking it his skin grew moist, and I knew he
was saved from that death of misplaced matter vulgarly called "dirt," to which well-paid medical
inspectors had consigned him, while giving their invaluable scientific attention to floor-scrubbing
and bed-making, to whitewashing and laundry-work.

I doubt if there were a Medical Inspector in the army who was not a first rate judge of the
art of folding and ironing a sheet or pillow-slip; of the particular tuck which brought out
the outlines of the corners of a mattress, as seen through a counterpane; and of the art and
mystery of cleaning a floor. It did seem as if they had all reached office through their great
proficiency as cabin-boys.

Next day I went to that ward with my tea-tray; and after learning that that man had been washed
once more, asked him if he wanted another cup of tea.

"I'd like to have one," he stammered; "but I didn't pay you for the last one, and I can't find
my wallet!"

I saw the debt troubled him, and took this as one more evidence that somewhere there were people
who sold hospital stores to sick soldiers. So I took pains to explain that he owed me nothing;
that the tea was his--ladies had sent it to me to give to him--and all the pay they wanted
was for him to get well, and go home to his mother.

The idea that some one was thinking for him seemed to do him almost as much good as the tea.

I left Campbell next day, but on my first visit found him convalescing, and on the second visit
he ran down the ward holding his sides and laughing, and I saw or heard of him no more.

CHAPTER LXI.

LEARN TO CONTROL PIEMIA.

About ten days after I went to Campbell, I was called at midnight to a death-bed. It was a
case of flesh-wound in the thigh, and the whole limb was swollen almost to bursting, so cold
as to startle by the touch, and almost as transparent as glass. I knew this was piemia and
that for it medical science had no cure; but I wanted to warm that cold limb, to call circulation
back to that inert mass. The first thought was warm, wet compresses, hot bricks, hot flannel;
but the kitchen was locked, and it was little I could do without fire, except to receive and
write down his dying messages to parents, and the girl who was waiting to be his wife.

When the surgeon's morning hour came he still lived; and at my suggestion the warm compresses
were applied. He said, "they feel so good," and was quite comforted by them, but died about
ten o'clock. I was greatly grieved to think he had suffered from cold the last night of life,
but how avoid any number of similar occurrences? There was no artificial heat in any of the
wards. A basin of warm water was only to be obtained by special favor of the cooks; but they
had been very courteous. The third day of my appearance among them, one looked up over the
edge of the tub over which he bent, washing potatoes, and said, as I stood waiting for hot water,

"Do you know what you look like going around here among us fellows?"

"No! but nothing dreadful I hope."

"You just look like an angel, and that's what we all think; we're ever so much better since
you came."

The memory of this speech gave me courage to go and lay my trouble before the cooks, who gathered
to hear me tell the story of that death, the messages left for the friends who should see him
no more, and of my sorrow that I could not drive away the cold on that last, sad night.

They all wiped their eyes on their aprons; head cook went to a cupboard, brought a key and
handed it to me, saying:

"There, mother, is a key of this kitchen; come in here whenever you please. We will always
find room on the ranges for your bricks, and I'll have something nice in the cupboard every
night for you and the nurses."

This proved to be the key to the situation, and after I received that bit of metal from cook,
there was not one death from piemia in any ward where I was free to work, although I have had
as many, I think, as sixty men struck with the premonitary chill, in one night. I concluded
that "piemia" was French for neglect, and that the antidote was warmth, nourishing food, stimulants,
friction, fresh air and cheerfulness, and did not hesitate to say that if death wanted to get
a man out of my hands, he must send some other agent than piemia. I do not believe in the medical
theory concerning it; do not believe pus ever gets into the veins, or that there is any poison
about it, except that of ignorance and indifference on the part of doctors and nurses.

CHAPTER LXII.

FIRST CASE OF GROWING A NEW BONE.

I had searched for Minnesota men in Campbell, found none, and had been there a week, when Mrs.
Kelsey told me there was one in ward ten, credited to a Wisconsin regiment; and from him I
learned that he was a friend and neighbor of my friends, Mr. and Mrs. Bancroft, of Mantorville,
and my conscience reproached me for not sooner finding him; but the second day Mrs. Gaylord
came, as a messenger from the surgeons, to tell me I need not spend time and strength on him,
as he could not be saved.

His was a thigh wound. They had thought to amputate, but found the bone shattered from joint
to joint--had, with a chain saw, cut it off above the knee, and picked out the bone in pieces.
There was a splinter attached to the upper joint, but that was all the bone left in the thigh,
and the injury was one from which recovery was impossible. His father, a doctor, was visiting
him, and knew he must die.

I went to the patient, who said:

"Dr. True, the ward surgeon has just been here, and tells me I must die!"

I sat by him fitting the measure I had been taking for two days to this new aspect of the case,
and talking of death, and the preparation for it, until I thought I understood the case, when
I said:

"Be ready for death, as every one of any sense should always be; but I do not intend to let
you die."

"I guess you cannot help it! All the surgeons and father agree that there is no hope for me."

"But they are all liable to be mistaken, and none of them have taken into the account your
courage and recuperative force; your good life and good conscience; your muscle, like a pine
log; your pure breath; your clear skin and good blood. I do not care what they say, you will
live; I will not let you die!"

I found Dr. Baxter, and said:

"I want you to save Corporal Kendall!"

"Corporal Kendall! who is he?"

"The man out of whose thigh you took the bone last week."

His face grew sad, but he said:

"Oh, we mean to save them all if we can."

"Doctor, that is no answer. I am interested in this man, know his friends and want to understand
his case. If I can keep his stomach in good working order and well supplied with blood-making
food, keep away chills and keep down pain, so that he can sleep, will he not get well?"

He laughed and replied:

"Well, I really never heard of a man dying under such circumstances."

"I can do that, doctor."

"If you can you will save him, of course, and we will give him to you."

"But, doctor, you must do all the surgery. I must not give him pain; cannot see that wound."

"Oh, certainly, we will do everything in our power; but he is yours, for we have no hope of
saving him."

"Another thing, doctor; you will have him brought to Ward Four."

He gave the order at once, adding: "Put him to the right of Howard"--a young Philadelphian
with a thigh stump, who was likely to die of hemorrhage, and whose jerking nerves I could soothe
and quiet better than any one else.

By this arrangement the man minus a thigh bone was placed in the center of my field of labor,
and under the care of Dr. Kelly; but full ten days after this arrangement was made, he came
with a rueful face and said:

"We have consulted the Surgeon-General, Medical Inspector, and a dozen other surgeons outside
the hospital, and they all agree that there is no hope for Kendall. The surgeons here have
commissioned me to tell you, for we think you ought to know. We all appreciate what you are
doing, and think you will save all your other men if you live, but you cannot stand this strain
long. You do not know it; but there is a limit to your powers of endurance, and you are breaking.
You certainly will die if you keep on as you have been going, and it is not worth your while
to kill yourself for Kendall, for you cannot save him."

"What is the reason he cannot be saved?"

"Well, there are several reasons. First, I performed the operation, and did not do it as thoroughly
as I wished. He was coming out from under the influence of the chloroform, and they hurried
me. The case was hopeless, and no use to give him pain, so there are several pieces of bone
which I failed to find. These are driven into the flesh, and nature in trying to get rid of
them will get up such excessive suppuration that he must die of exhaustion. Then there is the
thigh without a bone, and there is nothing in the books to warrant a hope that it could heal
in that condition. We could not, in any case, hope for the formation of a new bone. There are
re-sections of two inches, but this is the longest new formation of which we know anything,
and in this case there can be no hope, because the periosteum is destroyed."

"Periosteum, doctor. What is that, again?"

"It is the bone-feeder; the strong membrane which incloses the bone, and through which it is
made. In this case it is absolutely destroyed, removed, torn to shreds--gone. So there are
several reasons why he cannot be saved."

"Doctor Kelly, do you intend to let him lie there and die?"

"Oh no! oh no! I will do all in my power for him. I am paid for that; it is my duty; but it
is not your duty to sacrifice your own life in a vain effort to save another."

"Doctor Kelly, he shall not die; I will not let him. I know nothing about your books and bones;
but he can live with one bone wanting, and I tell you he shall not die, and I will not die either."

It was a week or more after this conversation I found my patient, one morning, with blue lips
and a pinched nose, and said to him:

"What is this?"

"Well, I had a chill last night."

"A chill and did not send for me?"

"You were here until after midnight, and must have some rest."

"Corporal Kendall, how dare you talk to me in that manner? You promised to send for me if there
were any change for the worse; and after this I cannot trust you. Now I must stay here. Do
you think I am going to lose my investment in you? Do you suppose I would work over you as
I have been doing, and then drop you for fear of a little more work?"

As I passed to the kitchen I found that blue lips and pinched noses had suddenly come into
fashion; that there were more of them than I had time to count; but did not, for a moment,
dream of letting a man get into the graveyard by that gate.

The merry, young Irishman who had volunteered as my orderly, had a period of active service;
and no more willing pair of hands and feet ever were interposed between men and death. Hot
bricks, hot blankets, bottles of hot water, hot whisky punch and green tea were the order of
the forenoon, and of a good many hours of night and day after it; for that victory was won
by a long struggle. For ten nights I never lay down in my room; but slept, all I did sleep,
lying on a cot about the center of Ward Four, and two cots from the man minus a bone. I could
drop asleep in an instant, and sleep during ordinary movements; but a change in a voice brought
me to my post in a moment. I could command anything in the dispensary or store-rooms at any
hour of the day or night, and carried many a man through the crisis of a night attack, when
if he had been left until discovered in the morning, there would have been little hope for
him; and when a surgeon could have done nothing without a key to the kitchen which none of
them had.

I kept no secrets from any of them: told each one just what I had done in his ward; thankfully
received his approval and directions, asked about things I did not understand, and was careful
that my nursing was in harmony with his surgery.

During that trial-time there was one night that death seemed to be gaining the victory in Corporal
Kendall's case. Pain defied my utmost efforts and held the citadel. Sleep fled; the circulation
grew sluggish, and both he and I knew that the result hung on the hour. It was two o'clock
A.M., and from midnight I had been trying to bring rest. The injured limb was suspended in
a zinc trough. I had raised, lowered it by imperceptible motions; cut bandage where it seemed
to bind, tucked in bits of cotton or oakum, kept the toes in motion, irritated the surface
wherever I could get the point of a finger in through the bandages; kept up the heat of the
body, and the hope of the soul; and sat down to hold his hands and try mesmeric passes and
sounds, when he turned his head on the pillow, and said:

"Even if I should get well, I'll never be fit for infantry service again."

"No, you never will."

"I might walk with that machine you talk of; but never could march and carry a knapsack! But
I have been thinking. I am a pretty good engineer. You know Secretary Stanton? You might get
me transferred to the Navy, and I could run an engine on a gunboat."

"That is it, exactly! You will get over this! I will have you transferred to a gunboat, and
next time you will go into the Rebellion prow foremost. You ought to be at work, in time to
help take Charleston."

I continued to talk, in a sing-song croone, to stroke his head, and hold his hand, until he
slept, which was but a few moments after settling that transfer, and the last time I saw him,
which was in '79, he got over the ground and up and down stairs, as fast as most people, his
new bone being quite as good as any of the old ones, except being a little short and decidedly
crooked, although the crook did not effect its usefulness or general appearance. 

They examined it, and retired into the crowd.

I couldn't imagine what this ceremony meant, and felt sure that when
my turn came I should make some frightful blunder.

As I thought this, I found Mrs. Slater beside me. She hurriedly explained to me that this party
was one of a series of Germans given at the houses of her friends, and that there had been some
feeling on the part of certain young ladies because others had been oftener asked to dance the
German and drive home afterward than they had.
There was just space between the cot and wall for the breadth of a mattress, and when the door
was shut, that space was long enough, for me to lie between the door and the stand. I have
never entertained a guest more cheerfully, or one by whose presence I felt more honored; yet
the traveling costume was a short calico dress, strong leather shoes and blue woolen stockings,
visible below the dress, a gingham sunbonnet and double-bordered cap tied under her chin.

Several richly dressed ladies came from Eastern cities to see dying relatives, but to none
of them were the surgeons so thoroughly respectful, as to this plain, strong, clean, high-souled
country-woman, who staid with her son, and was hailed with joy by all the men in his ward,
to every one of whom she was sympathetic and helpful.

Her case was hard. She and her husband, who was old and feeble, had just three sons, two strong
and vigorous, one a cripple. Their two vigorous sons enlisted together, and fell in the charge
on Marie's Hill, within ten feet and ten minutes of each other. William was buried on the battle-field,
and she had come to see James die in hospital.

When all was over and her boy was carried to the dead house, they brought her to me, and I
have never heard such pathetic, eloquent expressions of grief as those she poured forth in
that little, rough, barrack-room.

"Oh, William! William!" she sobbed, "You are lying, to-night, in your bloody grave, and your
mother will never know where it is! and you, James! you were my first-born, but I cannot go
to you now, where you lie in the darkness among the dead! Oh, but it is a sad story I must
carry to your old father, to bring his gray hairs in sorrow to the grave. Who can we lean upon,
in our old age? Who will take care of Johnny when we are gone? Oh, it is a hard, hard lot."

She wrung her hands, bowed over her knees, in a paroxysm of tears, then raised herself, threw
back her head, and exclaimed. "But oh! boys dear, wouldn't I rather you were where you are
this night, than that you had thrown down your guns and run!"

CHAPTER LXIV.

TWO KINDS OF APPRECIATION.

Looking down the long vista of memory, to the many faces turned to me from beds of pain, I
find few to which I can attach a name, and one I seem never to have looked upon but once. It
is a long, sallow face, surmounted by bushy, yellow hair; it has a clear, oval outline, and
straight nose, brown eyes and a down of young manhood on the wasted, trembling lips; I knew
it then, as the face of a fever patient, but not one to whom I had rendered any special service,
and felt surprised when the trembling lips said, in a pitiful, pleading way.

"We boys has been a talkin' about you!"

"Have you, my dear--and what have you boys been saying about me?"

"We've jist been a sayin' that good many ladies has been kind to us, but none uv 'em ever loved
us but you!"

"Well, my dear, I do not know how it is with the other ladies, but I am sure I do love you
very, very dearly! You do not know half how much I love you."

"Oh, yes, we do! yes, we do! we know 'at you don't take care uv us 'cause it's your juty! you
jist do it 'cause you love to!"

"That is it exactly--just because I love to, and because I want you to get well and go to your
mothers."

"Yes! but the boys says you don't care about 'em when they get well."

"They do not need to have me care for them when they are well."

"Oh, yes, they do! yes, they do! an' if that's the way you're a goin' to serve me, I'll stay
sick a long time."

When hospital stores came to me so fast that there was great trouble in getting them wisely
distributed, Campbell lent me an ambulance to go around, see where they were needed, and supply
as many as I could. I had a letter from an old Pittsburg neighbor, asking me to see his brother
in Douglas Hospital, and went in an ambulance well supplied with jellies and fruit.

Douglas Hospital was an institution of which the city was proud. Davis we always called him behind
his back. And such he looks. A man of "strapping" physique, younger in a general effect than
probably he is; immense chest and shoulders, great "meaty" back; constructed like (we picture)
those gladiators Borrow lyrically acclaims the "noble bruisers of old England"; complexion, (to
employ perhaps an excessive stylistic restraint) not pale. A heavy stick. A fondness for stocks.
Very becoming. A vitality with an aversion, apparently, to wearing an overcoat in the coldest
weather; deeming this probably an appurtenance of the invalid. Funny style of trowsers as if
made for legs about a foot longer.

In the reign of "high waters"!

We had picked up the notion that Mr. Davis was a snobbish person; we found him a very friendly man;
gentle, describes it, in manner. Very respectful to clerks. "One of the other gentlemen here
ordered another book for me," he mentions. But more. A sort of camaraderie. Says, one day,
that he just stepped in to dodge some people he saw coming. Inquires, "Well, what's going on in
the book world?" Buys travel books, Africa and such. Buys a quart of ink at a clip. He conveyed to
us further, unconsciously, perhaps, a subtle impression that he was,
in sympathy with us, on our side, so to say; in any difficulty, that
would be, that might arise; with "the boys," in a manner of speaking.

Veteran globe trotter and soldier of fortune on the earth's surface, Mr. Davis suffered a considerable
shock to discover in tete-a-tete that we had never been in London. London? Such a human vegetable,
we saw, was hardly credible.

"Charge," he said, "to James Huneker." He pronounced his name in a very eccentric fashion, the
first syllable like that in "hunter."

In our commerce with the world we have, with this rather important exception, invariably heard this
"u" as in "humid."

A substantial figure, very erect in carriage, supporting his portliness with that physical pride
of portly men, moving with the dignity of bulk; a physiognomy of
Rodinesque modelling.

His cane a trim touch to the ensemble.

Decidedly affable in manner to us. "Very nice man," comments our hasty note. "One of our young
gentlemen here, black eyes, black hair."-- describes with surprising
memory of exact observation a fellow-serf-- "was to get a book for
me a couple of months ago."

Bought the Muther monograph on Goya. Referred humorously to his new book-- one on music. Said, "Many
people won't believe that one can be equally good, or perhaps bad, at many things." Spoke of
Arnold Bennett; said he was "a hard-working journalist as well as
a novel writer."

Seemed to possess the greater respect, great esteem, for the character
of journalist.

We felt a reminiscence of that solid practicality of sentiment of
another heavy man.

"Nobody but a blockhead," said Dr. Johnson, "ever wrote except for
money."

Mentioned the novel then just out, "Predestined." "He [the author] is one of our [Sun] men,
you know." Fraternal pride and affection in inflection, though he said he did not know Mr. Whitman.
"Thank you very much indeed," he said at leaving.

From his carriage, moving slowly in on the arm of a Japanese boy,
his servant, came one day John La Farge.

Tales of the Far East. Profound erudition, skin of sear parchment, Indian philosophies, exotic
culture, incalculable age, inscrutable wisdom, intellectual mystery, a dignity deep in its appeal
to the imagination-- such was the connotation of this presence. (Fine as that portrait by Mr. Cortissoz.)
An Oriental scholar, all right, we thought. Mr. La Farge was in search
of some abstruse art books. He did not care, he said, what language
they were in, except German. He said he hated German. It was the business
of the Sisters to look after the clothing when it came from the laundry, put it in order, and
give it out when wanted.

My failure to get a bed for the man in the fort by applying to those in authority, made me
feel that it would be useless to try that plan about the vermin; and, in my perplexity, I turned
to my old friend and confidant, the public. To reach it, I wrote to the New York Tribune, giving
a very mild statement of the case.

Two days after Surgeon Baxter came, with a copy of that letter, and told me he had been ordered
to discharge me on account of it. I spoke of the men who must die if I left, and he was sorry
but had no option. Then he bethought him that maybe I might get the Surgeon-General to permit
me to remain, at least until the cases of my special patients were settled; otherwise I must
leave the hospital that day. He was sorry I had dated the letter from Campbell, had it not
been for this, he could use his influence to sustain me; but professional etiquette forbade
him to harbor or countenance one who spoke unfavorably of a brother-surgeon. In other words,
by living in a hospital I became one of a ring, bound to keep hospital secrets, and use only
words of commendation in speaking or writing of anything I saw.

I took a street car and proceeded to the office of the Surgeon-General--saw the man who held
the lives of my patients in his hands, ate the only piece of humble pie that over crossed my
lips, by apologizing for telling the truth, and got permission to go back to the men who looked
to me for life.

I have felt that I made a great mistake--felt that if I had then and there made war to the
knife, and the knife to the hilt, against the whole system of fraud and cruelty embodied in
the hospital service, I should have saved many more lives in the end. Even while I talked to
the head of that nest of corruption, and listened to his inane platitudes about my duty as
an inmate of a hospital to report abuses to him, and "the regular way of proceeding," I did
want to hurl the gauntlet of an irregular defiance into his plausible face, but the pleading
eyes in Campbell held me; I could not let those men die, and die they must if I must leave them.

Nobody denied the truth of my statements about Douglas Hospital, and I never learned that any
one objected to the facts or their continuance. It was only their exposure which gave offense.

This letter made me an object of dread. Folks never knew what I might see or say next; and
there soon arose another trouble about my living in Campbell; for Miss Dix objected, claimed
that it was an infringement on her authority. Then again, there were others who could not see
why there should be but one female nurse in Campbell. Dr. Baxter, by admitting me, had abandoned
his ground, acknowledged that men alone could not manage a first-class hospital; and having
discovered his mistake, was bound to rectify it by admitting a corps of lady nurses. He was
bombarded by Miss Dix's official power, pestered by the persistant appeals of volunteers; sneered
and scoffed at and worried, until he fell back on his old position, and promptly dismissed
me so soon as my patients were out of danger. He was always courteous to me as a visiter, and
has my lasting gratitude and respect for breaking his rules and bearing the persecution he
did, that I might do the work I did, and could not have done without his effective and generous
co-operation.

The proportion of thigh stumps saved, was the test of a hospital's success; and the summer
I was in Campbell, we saved nineteen out of twenty; next summer Chaplain Gaylord told me they
lost nineteen in twenty, and added: "Piemia has literally swept our wards."

CHAPTER LXV.

LIFE AND DEATH.

When released from the hospital, I had neither money nor clothes, and this is all the account
I can render to the generous people who sent me hospital stores. I could not answer their letters.
Some of them I never read. I could only give up my life to distributing their bounty, and knew
that neither their money nor my own had remained in my hands when it was necessary for me to
borrow two dollars to get a dress. My cloth traveling suit was no longer fit for use, and my
platform suit too good. These were all I had brought to Washington; but the best men never
refused me audience because I wore a shaker bonnet, a black lawn skirt and gray linen sack.
Some thought I dressed in that way to be odd, but it was all I could afford.

The Quarter-Master-General had canceled my appointment, because I had not reported for duty,
but Secretary Stanton reinstated me, and I went to work on the largest salary I had ever received--fifty
dollars a month. After some time it was raised to sixty, and I was more than independent; but
my health was so broken that half a dozen doctors commanded me to lie on my back for a month,
and I spent every moment I could in that position.

I had grown hysterical, and twice while at work in the office, broke out into passionate weeping,
while thinking of something in my hospital experience, something I had borne, when it occurred,
without a tear, or even without feeling a desire to weep.

In September I had twenty days' leave of absence to go to St. Cloud, settle my business and
bring my household gods. There were still no railroads in Minnesota, and I was six days going,
must have six to return, and one to visit friends at Pittsburg, yet in the time left, sold
The Democrat, closed my home, and met Gen. Lowrie for the first and last time.

He called and we spent an hour talking, principally of the war, which he thought would result
in two separate governments. His reason seemed to be entirely restored; but his prestige, power,
wealth and health were gone. I tried to avoid all personal matters, as well as reference to
our quarrel, but he broke into the conversation to say:

"I am the only person who ever understood you. People now think you go into hospitals from
a sense of duty; from benevolence, like those good people who expect to get to heaven by doing
disagreeable things on earth; but I know you go because you must; go for your own pleasure;
you do not care for heaven or anything else, but yourself." He stopped, looked down, traced
the pattern of the carpet with the point of his cane, then raised his head and continued: "You
take care of the sick and wounded, go into all those dreadful places just as I used to drink
brandy--for sake of the exhilaration it brings you."

We shook hands on parting, and from our inmost hearts, I am sure, wished each other well. I
was more than ever impressed by the genuine greatness of the man, who had been degraded by
the use of irresponsible power.

We reached Washington in good time, and I soon realized the great advantage of rest. Six hours
of office work came so near nothing to do, that had I been in usual health I should probably
have raised some disturbance from sheer idleness; but I learned by and by that the close attention
demanded to avoid mistakes, could not well have been continued longer.

Several ladies continued distributing hospital stores for me all that fall and winter, and
next spring I still had some to send out. When able I went myself, and in Carver found a man
who had been wounded in a cavalry charge, said to have been as desperate as that of "the Light
Brigade;" and who refused to take anything from me, because he had "seen enough of these people
who go around hospitals pretending to take care of wounded soldiers."

I convinced him it was his duty to take the jelly in order to prevent my stealing it. Also,
that it was for my interest to save his life, that I might not have to pay my share of the
cost of burying him and getting a man in his place. Nay, that it was my duty to get him back
into the saddle as fast as possible, that my government need not pay him for lying abed. He
liked this view of the case, and not only took what I offered him, but next time I went asked
for Jefferson-tie shoes to support his foot, and when I brought them said he would be ready
for duty in a week.

In Judiciary Square, a surgeon asked me to give a jar of currant jelly to a man in Ward Six,
who was fatally wounded.

I found the man, those in the neighboring cots and the nurse, all very sad, talked to him a
few moments, and said:

"You think you are going to die!"

"That is what they all say I must do!"

"Well, I say you are not going to do anything of the kind!"

"Oh! I guess I am!"

"Not unless you have made up your mind to it, and are quite determined. Those hip wounds kill
a great many men, because folks do not know how to manage them, and because the men are easy
to kill; but it takes a good deal to kill a young man with a good conscience, who has never
drank liquor or used tobacco; who has muscle like yours, a red beard and blue gray eyes."

I summoned both his day and night nurse, told all three together of the surgical trap-door
that old Mother Nature wanted made and kept open, clear up to the center of that wound. The
surgeon would always make one if the patient wanted it. I told them about the warmth and nourishment
and care needed, and left him and them full of hope and resolution.

Next time I was in Judiciary, a young man on crutches accosted me, saying:

"Were not you in Ward Six, about six weeks ago?"

"Yes!"

"Do you remember a man there, that every one said was going to die, and you said he wouldn't?"

"Yes."

"Well, I'm the fellow."

I looked at him inquiringly, and said:

"Well, did you die?"

He burst into uproarious laughter, and replied:

"No, but I'm blamed if I wouldn't, if you hadn't come along."

I passed on, left him leaning against the wall finishing his laugh, and saw or heard of him
no more.

It was but a few days after he passed out of my knowledge that news came of the death of Gen.
Lowrie. It was the old story, "the great man down," for he died in poverty and neglect, but
with his better self in the ascendent. His body lies in an unmarked grave, in that land where
once his word was law.

Pondering on his death, I thought of that country boy going to his father's house, with the
life restored by one he knew not, even by name, and the going home of that mature man, who
thought he knew my inmost soul, and with whose political death I was charged. Only the wisdom
of eternity can determine which, if either, I served or injured. To the one, life may lack
blessing, to the other, death be all gain.

CHAPTER LXVI.

MEET MISS DIX AND GO TO FREDERICKSBURG.

I sat down stairs, for the first time after a two weeks' illness, when Georgie Willets, of
Jersey City, came in, saying:

"Here is a pass for you and one for me, to go to Fredericksburg! A boat leaves in two hours,
and we must hurry!"

For several days the air had shuddered with accounts of the terrible suffering of our men,
wounded in the battle of the Wilderness; and a pall of uncertainty and gloom hung over the city.

I made a tuck in a queen's-cloth dress, donned it, selected a light satchel, put into one side
a bottle of whiskey and one of sherry, half a pound of green tea, two rolls of bandage and
as much old table-linen as packed them close; put some clothing for myself in the other side,
and a cake of black castile soap, for cleansing wounds; took a pair of good scissors, with
one sharp point, and a small rubber syringe, as surgical instruments; put these in my pocket,
with strings attaching them to my belt; got on my Shaker bonnet, and with a large blanket shawl
and tin cup, was on board with Georgie, an hour before the boat left.

It had brought a load of wounded from Belle Plain; some were still on board, and suffering
intensely from thirst, and hard, dry dressings. It was a hot day, and we both went to work
giving drinks of water, wetting wounds, and bathing hot heads and hands. As Georgie passed
the foot of the cabin stairs, Miss Dix was coming down, and called to her, saying:

"What are you doing here?"

She made no reply, but passed on to her work, when the irate lady turned to where I was drawing
water from a cooler, and asked, in a tone of high displeasure:

"Who is that young girl?"

"Miss Georgie Willets, of Jersey City," I replied.

"And where is she going?"

"To Fredericksburg."

"By whose authority?" she demanded.

"By authority of the Surgeon-General," I replied.

"The Surgeon-General has no authority to send a young girl down there alone."

"She is not going alone."

"Who is going with her?" she asked, tartly.

"I am."

"Who are you?"

I told her, and she ceased to be insulting long enough to expostulate on the great impropriety
of the proceeding, as well as to explain the total lack of any need of help in Fredericksburg.
She had just returned from that city, where she had arranged everything in the most satisfactory
manner. Hospitals had been established, with surgeons and nurses. There was therefore not the
slightest occasion for our going further; but she was about to organize relief for the men
while waiting at the Washington wharf to be taken to hospitals. Here I might be useful, and
here she would be glad to have me work; but as for that handsome young girl, she wondered at
me for bringing her into such a place.

Georgie was not merely handsome. She was grand, queenly; and I told Miss Dix that I differed
with her about the kind of women who should go into such places. We wanted young, vigorous
women--women whose self-respect and social position would command the respect of those to whom
they ministered. She grew angry again, and said:

"She shall not go to Fredericksburg; I will have her arrested!"

I was kneeling beside a man whose wounds I was bathing; for I had not suspended my work to
talk with her, who stood, straight as a telegraph pole, holding a bottle which she ever and
anon applied to her nose; but when she reached this climax, I raised my head, looked into her
face, and said:

"I shall not be sorry Miss Dix, if you do; for then I shall apply to my friends, Mrs. Abraham
Lincoln and Secretary Stanton, and have your authority tested."

I went on with my work; she growled something and left the boat, but did not disturb us further.

Going down the river I grew worse, and thought I might be obliged to return with the boat,
and stay at home; but consulted a surgeon on his way to the front, who talked with another,
and said:

"There is no immediate danger in your case. It is only secondary hemorrhage; and with care
you may go on, but must not attempt to do anything. You can, however, be of incalculable service,
simply by being in Fredericksburg; can sit down and see that people do their duty. What our
wounded need most, is people who have an interest in their welfare--friends. You can do a great
deal toward supplying this want, this great need; but be careful and do not try to work."

After some time this surgeon brought, and introduced Col. Chamberlain, of Maine, evidently
an invalid, and a man of the purely intellectual type. Two other surgeons were with him, and
all three endeavored to persuade him to return to Washington, as his lack of health made it
very dangerous, if not quite useless, for him to go to the front. I thought the surgeons right;
and told him I feared he was throwing away his life, in an effort to do the impossible.

He explained that he was in command of a brigade of eight regiments; that in them were hundreds
of his neighbors and pupils, for he had resigned a professorship in a college to enlist. Said
he knew his own constitution better than any one else could know it; knew he would be stronger
when he reached his post, and that the danger would be in any attempt to keep out of danger--the
danger which his men must face. Turning to me he said:

"If you had eight children down there, you would go to them, if you could!"

We arranged that if he should be wounded so as to suffer a thigh amputation, he should let
me know, that I might nurse him through.

At Belle Plaine, Georgie went to look for transportation, and I to the Sanitary Commission
boat, where I was introduced to Mrs. Gen. Barlow and Miss Hancock, both busy furnishing hot
coffee to those being embarked for Washington. Mrs. Barlow was a tall, superbly formed woman,
very handsome, and full of health and spirits. She looked down on me compassionately, and said:

"Oh, you poor little thing! What ever brought you here? We have sick folks enough now! Do sit
down until I get you a cup of tea!"

While I drank the tea, she stood looking at me, and said meditatively:

"Oh, you queer little thing," and hurried off to her work.

Soon a Colonel with a badly wounded head came on board, leaned against, a post and groaned.
I found a basin of water and a towel, and began bathing his head, wetting those torturing dressings
and making him comparatively comfortable, when she stopped in her hurried walk, looked on an
instant, and exclaimed:

"Oh, you nice little thing! Now I see what you are good for! I could not do that; but you will
take care of their wounds and I will feed them! That will be grand!"

Soon Georgie came to say there was no transportation to be had, but she had found a Campbell
surgeon in charge of a hospital tent, and he wanted me; said he was worn out, and had plenty
of work for both of us. The doctor had a large tent, filled with wounded lying on loose hay.
His patients seemed to want for nothing, but he must needs give so much time to receiving and
forwarding those pouring in from the front, that he needed us. He had a little tent put up
for us, and that was the only night I have ever slept in a tent.

Next morning while we were attending to a Colonel, and Lieutenant Colonel, both of the same
regiment, and both badly wounded and just brought in, one said to the other: "My God, if our
men in Fredericksburg could have a little of this care!" "Why?" said I, "I have heard that
everything possible was being done for them?"

"Everything possible!" exclaimed one, and both together began the most terrible recital of
the neglect and abuse of the wounded in that horrible place--men dying of thirst, and women
spitting in their faces, kicking and spurning them. We set down our basins; Georgie started
in one direction and I in another, to find transportation.

The surgeon in command of the station stood superintending the loading of oats while he looked
at my pass, and said he could not possibly send us, adding: "Fredericksburg is no place for
a lady. It is impossible to describe the condition of things there."

"But, Doctor, I am not a lady! I am a hospital nurse. The place where men are suffering must
be the place for me. I do not look strong, but you cannot think how much I can do.

"But, Madam, you forget that our army is cut off from its base of supplies, and must be furnished
with subsistence, and that we have not half the transportations we need."

"Doctor, you are sending bags of oats in ambulances! I do not weigh much more than one, and
will be worth six when you get me there."

He promised to send me that afternoon, but I doubted him; went to the Christian Commission
tent, found a man who knew me by reputation, and told him they had better send me to Fredericksburg,
or put me under arrest, for I was in a mood to be dangerous. He feigned fright, caught up his
hat, and said:

"We'll get you out of this in the shortest possible space of time."

An hour after I was on the way, and Georgie a few moments in advance. I had seen bad roads
in northern and western Pennsylvania, but this was my first ride over no road. We met a steady
stream of such wounded as were able to walk, but comparatively few were brought in ambulances.

It was raining when we reached Fredericksburg, at four o'clock on Sabbath, and I went to the
surgeon in command, reported, and asked him to send me to the worst place--the place where
there was most need.

"Then I had better send you to the Old Theater, for I can get no one to stay there."

He gave me my appointment, and I went to a Corps Surgeon, who signed it, and advised me not
to go to the theater--I could do nothing, as the place was in such dreadful condition, while
I could be useful in many other places.

CHAPTER LXVII.

THE OLD THEATER.

This building was on Princess Ann street. The basement floor was level with the sidewalk, but
the ground sloped upward at the back; so that the yard was higher than the floor. Across the
front was a vestibule, with two flights of stairs leading up to the auditorium; behind the
vestibule a large, low room, with two rows of pillars supporting the upper floor; and behind
this three small rooms, and a square hall with a side entrance. The fence was down between
the theater and Catholic church, next door. I stopped in the church to see Georgie, who was
already at work there, came and left by the back door, and entered the theater by the side hall.

The mud was running in from the yard. Opposite the door, in a small room, was a pile of knapsacks
and blankets; and on them lay two men smoking. To get into the large room, I must step out
of the hall mud over one man, and be careful not to step on another. I think it was six rows
of men that lay close on the floor, with just room to pass between the feet of each row; they
so close in the rows that in most places I must slide one foot before the other to get to their
heads.

The floor was very muddy and strewn with debris, principally of crackers. There was one hundred
and eighty-two men in the building, all desperately wounded. They had been there a week. There
were two leather water-buckets, two tin basins, and about every third man had saved his tin-cup
or canteen; but no other vessel of any sort, size or description on the premises--no sink or
cess-pool or drain. The nurses were not to be found; the men were growing reckless and despairing,
but seemed to catch hope as I began to thread my way among them and talk. No other memory of
life is more sacred than that of the candor with which they took me into their confidence,
as if I had been of their own sex, yet ever sought to avoid wounding the delicacy they ascribed
to mine.

I found some of the nurses--cowards who had run away from battle, and now ran from duty--galvanized
them into activity, invented substitutes for things that were wanting--making good use of an
old knapsack and pocket-knife--and had tears of gratitude for pay.

One man lay near the front door, in a scant flannel shirt and cotton drawers, his left thigh
cut off in the middle and the stump supported on the only pillow in the house. It was six by
ten inches, stuffed with straw. His head was supported by two bits of board and a pair of very
muddy boots. He called me, clutched my dress, and plead:

"Mother, can't you get me a blanket, I'm so cold; I could live if I could get any care!"

I went to the room where the men lay smoking on the blankets; but one of them wearing a surgeon's
shoulderstraps, and speaking in a German accent, claimed them as his private property, and
positively refused to yield one. The other man was his orderly, and words were useless--they
kept their blankets.

Going into a room behind that, I found a man slightly wounded sitting on the floor, supporting
another who had been shot across the face, and was totally blind. He called, and when I came
and talked with them, said:

"Won't you stay with us?"

"Stay with you?" I replied, "Well, I rather think I will, indeed; I came to stay, and am one
of the folks it is hard to drive away!"

"Oh! thank God; everybody leaves us; they come and promise, and then go off, but I know you
will stay; you will do something for us!"

It was so pitiful, that for an instant my courage failed, and I said:

"I will certainly stay with you; but fear it is little I can do for you."

"Oh, you can speak to us; you do not know how good your voice sounds. I have not seen a woman
in three months; what is your name?"

"My name is mother."

"Mother; oh my God! I have not seen my mother for two years. Let me feel your hand?"

I took between both of mine his hand, covered with mud and blood and smoke of battle, and told
him I was not only going to stay with them, but was going to send him back to his regiment,
with a lot more who were lying around here doing nothing, when there was so much fighting to
be done; I had come on purpose to make them well, and they might make up their minds to it.
My own courage had revived, and I must revive theirs; I could surely keep them alive until
help should come. By softening the torturing bandages on his face, I made him more comfortable;
and in an adjoining room found another man with a thigh stump, who had been served by field-surgeons,
as the thieves served the man going from Jerusalem to Jericho: i.e., "stripped him, left him
naked and half dead." Those men surely did not go into battle without clothes; and why they
should have been sent out of the surgeon's hands without enough of even underclothing to cover
them, is the question I have never yet had answered. Common decency led to his being placed
in the back room alone, but I shall never blush for going to him and doing the little I could
for his comfort.

After I returned to the large room, I took notice about clothing, and found that most of the
men had on their ordinary uniform; some had two blankets, more had one; but full one-third
were without any. There was no shadow or pretense of a bed or pillow, not even a handful of
straw or hay! There was no broom, no hoe, or shovel, or spade to sweep or scrape the floor;
and the horrors were falling upon me when the man of the blankets came, and said:

"Mattam, iv you are goin' to do any ding for tese men, you petter git dem someding to eat."

"Something to eat?"

"Yaas! mine Cot, someding to eat! De government petter leave dem to tie on de pattle field,
nur do pring tem here to starve."

I looked at him in much surprise, and said:

"Who are you?"

"Vy, I am de surgeon. Tey send me here; put mine Cot, I cannot do notting. Tere ish notting
to do mit!"

I called out: "Men, what have you had to eat?"

"Hard tack, and something they call coffee," was the response.

"Have you had no meat?"

"Meat? We have forgotten what it tastes like!"

In one corner, near the front door, was a little counter and desk, with a stationary bench
in front. To this desk the surgeon gave me a key. I found writing material, and sent a note
of four lines to the Corps Surgeon. Half an hour after, an irate little man stormed in and
stamped around among those prostrate men, flourishing a scrap of paper and calling for the
writer. His air was that of the champion who wanted to see "the man who struck Billy Patterson,"
and his fierceness quite alarmed me, lest he should step on some of the men. So I hurried to
him, and was no little surprised to find that the offending missive was my note. I told him
I had written it, and could have had no thought of "reporting" him, since I knew nothing about him.

After considerable talk I learned that he had charge of the meat, and that none had been issued
to that place, because no "requisition" had been sent. I had never written a requisition, but
found blanks in that desk, filled one, signed it and gave it to the meat man, who engaged that
the beef should be there next morning.

It grew dark, and we had two tallow candles lighted! May none of my readers ever see such darkness
made visible--such rows of haggard faces looking at them from out such cavernous gloom! I talked
hopefully, worked and walked, while mentally exclaiming:

"Oh, God! What shall I do?"

About nine o'clock Dr. Porter, Division Surgeon, came with Georgie, to take us to our quarters.
These were but half a block away, on the same side of the street, but on the opposite side,
and corner of the next cross-street, in a nice two-story brick house, with a small yard in
front. An old lady answered his summons, but refused to admit us: when he insisted and I interposed,
saying the lady was afraid of soldiers, but would admit us. We would bid him good night, and
soon our lodgings would be all right.

She was relieved, took us in, cooked our rations for herself and us, gave us a comfortable
bed, and was uniformly kind all the time we staid, and seemed sorry to have us leave.

I spoke the first night to Dr. Porter about blankets and straw, or hay for beds, but was assured
that none were to be had. Supplies could not reach them since being cut off from their base,
and the Provost Marshal, Gen. Patrick, would not permit anything to be taken out of the houses,
though many of them were unoccupied, and well supplied with bedding and other necessaries.
I thought we ought to get two blankets for those two naked men, if the Government should pay
their weight in gold for them; and suggested that the surgeons take what was necessary for
the comfort of the men, and give vouchers to the owners. I knew such claims would be honored;
would see that they should be; but he said the matter had been settled by the Provost, and
nothing more could be done.

It seems to me now that I must have been benumbed, or I could have done something to provide
covering for those men. I did think of giving one of them my shawl, but I must have died without
it. I remembered my Douglas Hospital letter, and knew that Gen. Patrick could order me out
of Fredericksburg, and leave these men to rot in the old theater. Already their wounds were
infested by worms, which gnawed and tormented them; some of those wounds were turning black,
many were green; the vitality of the men was sinking for want of food and warmth. I could not
forsake them to look after reform; would not fail to do what I could, in an effort to do what
I could not or might not accomplish.

In the morning I saw that the men had something they called coffee, and found canned milk for
it, which was nourishment; but a new difficulty arose. The men who brought the coffee would
distribute it to those who had cups or canteens, and the others would get none. I had some
trouble to induce them to leave their cans, until, with the two tin cups I could borrow, I
could give about one-third the whole number the coffee they could not otherwise have.

Our cooking was done in the churchyard, with that of the church patients. A shed had been put
up; but our cooking was an "uncovenanted mercy," and when our beef came there was a question
as to how it could be cooked--how that additional work could be done.

I wrote to the Provost-Marshal, stating our trouble, and the extremity of one hundred and eighty-two
men. Asked that we might take a cook-stove out of a vacant house near; promised to take good
care of it and have it returned; and he wrote, for answer:

"I am not a thief! If you want a stove send to the Sanitary Commission!"

He must have known that the Commission was as pressed as the Government to conform its arrangements
to the movements of an army cut off from its base of supplies, and that it had no stoves, so
the plain English of his answer was:

"Let your wounded die of hunger, in welcome! I am here to guard the property of the citizens
of Fredericksburg!"

I had already written to the Commission for blankets and a broom, but there were none to be
had. It soon however sent a man, who cut branches off trees, and with them swept the floors.

CHAPTER LXVIII.

AM PLACED IN AUTHORITY.

On Monday morning I sent for Dr. Porter, and stated the trouble about nurses shirking. He had
them all summoned in the front end of the large room, and in presence of the patients, said
to them:

"You see this lady? Well, you are to report to her for duty; and if she has any fault to find
with you she will report you to the Provost-Marshal!"

I have never seen a set of men look more thoroughly subdued. There were eleven of them, and
they all gave me the military salute. The doctor went off, and I set them to work. One middle-aged
Irishman had had some experience as a nurse; could dress wounds--slowly, but very well--was
faithful and kind; and him I made head-nurse up stairs, where there were fifty-four patients,
and gave him three assistants, for whom he was to be responsible. After Patrick's note, I calculated
my resources, and got ready for a close siege. As I sat on that little stationary bench, making
an inventory, I heard shrieks, groans and curses, at the far end of the room; ran to the place,
and got there in time to see the surgeon of the blankets tearing the dry dressings off a thigh
stump! Coming up behind him, I caught him by both ears, and had my hands full, ordered him
to stop, and said:

"You had better go back to your room and smoke." 

We were so afraid that he would not be able to come.

"While I talked as well as I could to Mrs. Raggles, I surreptitiously observed my host and hostess.
Mr. Slater looked uncomfortable. There was a consciousness in his uneasy manner that if I was
a sham, so was he. I feared that he might give us both away before the evening was over. Mrs.
Slater, on the contrary, soared above any feeling of this sort. Her party was to be a success;
that was evidently her principal object. What a comfort this was
to me! I got our beef into the way of being boiled, and would have some good substantial
broth made around it. I went on a foraging expedition--found a coal-scuttle which would do
for a slop-pail, and confiscated it, got two bits of board, by which it could be converted
into a stool, and so bring the great rest of a change of position to such men as could sit
up; had a little drain made with a bit of board for a shovel, and so kept the mud from running
in at the side door; melted the tops off some tin cans, and made them into drinking cups; had
two of my men confiscate a large tub from a brewery, set it in the vestibule to wash rags for
outside covers to wounds, to keep off chill, and had others bring bricks and rubbish mortar
from a ruin across the street, to make substitutes for pillows.

I dressed wounds! dressed wounds, and made thorough work of it. In the church was a dispensary
where I could get any washes or medicines I wished, and I do not think I left a worm. Some
of them were over half an inch long, with black heads and many feet, but most were maggots.
They were often deeply seated, but my syringe would drive them out, and twice a day I followed
them up. The black and green places grew smaller and better colored with every dressing. The
men grew stronger with plenty of beef and broth and canned milk. I put citric acid and sugar
in their apple sauce as a substitute for lemons. I forget how many thigh stumps I had, but
I think as many as twelve. One of them was very short and in a very bad condition. One morning
when I was kneeling and dressing it, the man burst into tears, and said:

"You do not seem to mind this, but I know you would not do it for anything but the love of
God, and none but He can ever reward you; but if I live to see my wife and children, it will
be through what you have done for me, and I will teach them to bless your name!"

He quite took me by surprise, for I seemed to have forgotten any other life than that I was
then living; and dressing the most frightful wounds was as natural as eating. I felt no disgust,
no shrinking, and mere conventional delicacy is withdrawn when the Angel of Death breathes upon it.

The man we stepped over at the back door, proved to be a student from the Pennsylvania Agricultural
College, shot through the alimentary canal, near the base of the spine. For him there was no
hope, but I did what I could to make him less uncomfortable, and once he said:

"This is strange work for a lady."

"You forget," I said, "that I am surgeon in charge, that you and I were made of the same kind
of clay, in much the same fashion, and will soon turn into just the same kind of dust." How
my heart was wrung for him, with his refined face, dying for a country which sent its bayonets
to stand between him and the armful of straw, with which I might have raised him above that
muddy floor. He had no knapsack to serve as a pillow, no blanket, no cup, and his position
across the doorway was cold and uncomfortable; but even after I had made a better place for
him, he objected to leaving two companions, who lay next to him, and I could not find room
for all three together, even on that dirty floor. He himself always dressed the wound where
the bullet entered, and was most grateful for the means of doing so. I cared for that one through
which Death's messenger made its exit, and although he knew its condition, he did not know
the certainty of a fatal result, and resented any intimation that he should not recover.

CHAPTER LXIX.

VISITERS.

The second morning of my work in the old theater, Miss Hancock came to see how I got along.
She was thoroughly practical, and a most efficient laborer in the hospital field, and soon
thought of something to better the condition of the man minus clothes, who lay quite near my
desk and the front door, and caught my dress whenever he could, to plead for a blanket. She
could get no blanket; but was stationed in the Methodist Church, where there was a surgeon
in charge, and everything running in regular order. In a tent adjoining, this man could be
laid out of the draught and chill of that basement, and she would do her best to get some clothing
for him. She sent two men with a stretcher, who took him to the church tent, where I fear he
was not much better provided for than in the place he left.

After some days, Mrs. Gen. Barlow came to see the men who all belonged to her husband's division,
and were rejoiced to see her; and to express a general fear for my life. I was to die of overwork
and want of sleep, "and then," she exclaimed, "what will become of these men? No one but you
ever could or would have done anything for them. Do you know there were three surgeons detailed
for duty here, before you came, and none of them would stay? Now if you die, they will. Do
take some rest!"

I listened and looked at her flushed face, while she talked, and said:

"Mrs. Barlow, I am not going to die--am in no danger whatever, and will hold out until help
comes. This cannot last; Government will come to the rescue, and my men will be here when it
comes. After all is over, I will fall to pieces like an old stage coach when the king-bolt
drops out; will lie around as lumber for a while, then some one will put me together again,
and I will be good as new. It is you who are killing yourself. You must change your arrangements
or you will take typhoid fever, and after such a strain, recovery will be hopeless. I take
nobody's disease--am too repellant; but you will catch contagion very readily. Keep away from
fever cases and rest; you are in imminent peril." She hurried away, laughing at the idea of
one in her perfect health being injured by hard work; but my heart was full of evil omen. I
had talked with Mrs. Senator Pomeroy, on her way from her last visit to the Contraband camp,
where she gave her life in labor for the friendless and poor, and she had looked very much
as Mrs. Barlow did that day.

Soon after this, I was made glad by the sight of my friend, Mrs. Judge Ingersol. People say
her daughter, Mrs. Gov. Chamberlain, is a beauty, but she is not old enough ever to have been
as beautiful as her mother, that day, in her plain widow's dress, walking among the wounded,
with her calm face so full of strength and gentleness.

She and Mrs. Barlow had hatched a rebellion. In the city was a barn containing straw, for want
of which our men were dying. It was guarded by one of Gen. Barlow's men. Mrs. Barlow took two
others, went with them, placed herself in front of the guard, told them to break open the barn
and carry out the straw, and him to fire, if he thought it is duty; but he must reach them
through her. The man's orders were to guard the barn; with the straw out of it he had nothing
to do. The men moved side and side, going in and out, and she kept in range to cover them until
the last armful had been removed. It was taken away and was to be distributed; but there was
still so little compared to the need, that there must be consultation about the manner of using
it. There was something strangely familiar in his face; in the almost courtly wave of his hand
as he directed his guests to the refreshment-room; in his protecting manner as he walked about,
first with one lady, then with another. I cannot recall distinctly the events of the evening.
I have a confused impression of lights, flowers, music, and people, much like any other party,
yet with certain differences. The dressing was not in particularly good taste, and the German
was managed in a most extraordinary manner. There was no authority to hold any one to steady employment; and so about two-thirds
the helpers who reached Fredericksburg, spent a large part of their time in an aimless wandering
and wondering, and finding so much to be done, could do nothing.

So, most of the time Mrs. Ingersol was in her loft alone, except the orderlies who stuffed
her slips, sewed up the ends and carried them off to the places she designated; but she had
nimble fingers, and sleight-of-hand, and turned out a surprising number of small straw pillows.

As my allowance came, the question was what to do with them. They were too precious for use.
What should I do with those scraps of white on that field of grime? Our gaunt horror became
grotesque, in view of such unwonted luxuries. What! A whole dozen or two little straw pillows
among one hundred and sixty men! Who should elect the aristocrats to be cradled in such luxury
amid that world of want?

When my aristocrat was elected, how should his luxury be applied? Would I put it under his
head or mangled limb? I think I never realized our destitution until those little pillows came
to remind me that sometimes wounded men had beds! Oh, God! would relief never come? Like the
Scotch girl in the besieged fortress of India, I felt like laying my ear to the ground, to
harken for the sound of the bagpipes, the tramp of the Campbells coming. It did seem that,
without surgical aid or comforts of any kind, my men must soon be all past hope; but a surgeon
came, and I hailed him with joy, thinking him the advance guard of the army of relief. Half
an hour after his appearance I missed him, and saw him no more; and this was the fourth which
left those men, after being regularly detailed to duty among them--left them to die or live,
as they could.

Soon after this we had an official visit from one of those laundry critics, called "Medical
Inspectors." As there were no sheets or counterpanes to look after, he turned his attention
to a heap of dry rubbish in the vestibule, which gave the place an untidy appearance, as seen
from the street. To remove this eyesore he had one of my nurses hunt up a wheel-barrow, and
two shovels--shovels were accessible by this time--and ordered him and another to wheel that
rubbish out into the street. The wheel-barrow coming in the door called my attention, when
I learned that we were going to be made respectable. I sent the wheel-barrow home, gave the
shovels to two men to dig a sink hole back in the yard, and forbade any disturbance of the
dry, harmless rubbish in the vestibule. I would not have my men choked with dust by its removal,
and set about getting up false appearances. No medical inspector should white that sepulchre
until he cleared the dead men's bones out of it. He had not looked at a wound; did not know
if the men had had any dinner. A man did not need a medical diploma to clear up after stage
carpenters. If the Government wanted that kind of work done, it had better send a man and cart
with its donkey.

CHAPTER LXX.

WOUNDED OFFICERS.

In Washington, I had done nothing for any wounded officer, except a captain who was brought
to our ward when all the others were taken away, and in Fredericksburg I began on that principle.
I found twenty in the Old Theater, and had them removed to private houses, to make room for
the men, and that they might be better cared for. Officers could be quartered in private houses,
and have beds, most of those taken out of the theater were put into houses between it and our
quarters, so that I could see them on my way to and from meals. Among them was the blind man,
who still craved to hear me speak and feel my hand, and I kept his face in a wet compress until
a surgeon was dressing it and found the inflammation so gone that he drew the lid of one back,
and the man cried out in delight: "I can see! I was shown to the Employment Bureau, and there,
through a little grating, I was interviewed by a young clerk of supernatural composure. He
had a cool discerning eye that seemed to read my very soul, and take
in my situation and errand at a glance.

I produced the Globe letter as the simplest method of introducing
myself.

He looked at me with his discriminating expression. "Let me see," he murmured. "We have had three
thousand applications since the day before yesterday, and our list
is complete.

There was a captain whose stump I must fix every night before he could sleep, and when his
wife came I tried to teach her, but she was so much afraid of hurting him she could do nothing.
I learned in time that officers quartered in private houses, even with the greater comforts
they had, often suffered more than the men in all their privations. Mrs. Barlow came for me
to see one given up to die, and I found him in a large handsome room, on the first floor of
an elegant residence, absolutely hopeless, but for years have not been able to recall the trouble
in his case.

It must have been easy to set right, for he began at once to recover, and I felt that people
had been very stupid, and that there was an unreasonable amount of wonder and gratitude over
whatever it was I did. It was often so easy to save a life, where there were the means of living,
that a little courage or common sense seemed like a miraculous gift to people whose mental
powers had been turned in other directions.

But I found another side to looking after officers in private quarters. One evening after dark,
Georgia called to tell me of a dreadful case of suffering which a surgeon wished her to see.
He was there to accompany her, but she declined going without me, and I went along, walking
close behind them, as the pavement was narrow. He did not seem to notice that I was there,
was troubled with the weight of his diploma and shoulderstraps, and talked very patronizingly
to the lady at his side, until she turned, and said to me:

"Do you hear that?"

"Oh, yes," I replied, "and feel very grateful to the young man for his permission to do the
work he is paid for doing, but if he had reserved his patronage until some one had asked for
it, it would have had more weight."

"Your friend is sarcastic," was his reply to her; and I said no more until we reached the case
of great distress, which was on the second floor of a vacant house, and proved to be a colonel
in uniform, seated in an easy chair, smoking, while his orderly sat in another chair, oil the
other side of the room.

Georgie stood looking from one man to the other in speechless surprise; but I spoke to the
man in the chair, saying:

"How is it, sir, that you, an officer, in need of nothing, have trespassed upon our time and
strength, when you know that men are dying by hundreds for want of care?"

