At the end of the autumn I left the cottage and removed to Pen y Gwryd, as a comparatively
easy point from which I could reach the mountain llyn where I had breakfasted with Winifred
on that morning. Afterwards I took up my abode at a fishing-inn, and here I stayed the winter
through--scarcely hoping to find her now, yet chained to Snowdon. After my labours during the
day, scrambling among slippery boulders and rugged rocks, crossing swollen torrent-beds, amid
rain and ice and snow and mist such as frightened away the Welsh themselves--after thus wandering,
because I could not leave the region, it was a comfort to me to turn into the low, black-beamed
room of the fishing-inn, with drying hams, flitches of bacon, and fishing-rods for decorations,
and hear the simple-hearted Cymric folk talking, sometimes in Welsh, sometimes in English,
but always with that kindness and that courtesy which go to make the poetry of Welsh common life.

Meantime, I had, as I need scarcely say, spared neither trouble nor expense in advertising
for information about Winifred in the Welsh and the West of England newspapers. I offered rewards
for her discovery, and the result was merely that I was pestered by letters from people (some
of them tourists of education) suggesting traces and clues of so wild, and often of so fantastic
a kind, that I arrived at the conviction that of all man's faculties his imagination is the
most lawless, and at the same time the most powerful. It was perfectly inconceivable to me
that the writers of some of these letters were not themselves demented, so wild or so fanciful
were the clues they suggested. Yet. when I came to meet them and talk with them (as I sometimes
did), I found these correspondents to be of the ordinary prosaic British type. All my efforts
were to no purpose.

Among my longer journeys from the fishing-inn, the most frequent were those to Holywell, near
Flint, to the Well of St. Winifred--the reader need not be told why. He will recollect how
little Winnie, while plying me with strawberries, had sagely recommended the holy water of
this famous well as a 'cure for crutches.' She had actually brought me some of it in a lemonade
bottle when she returned to Raxton after her first absence, and had insisted on rubbing my
ankle with it. She had, as I afterwards learnt from her father, importuned and at last induced
her aunt (evidently a good-natured and worthy soul) to take her to visit a friend at Holywell,
a journey of many miles, for the purpose of bringing home with her a bottle of the holy water.
Whenever any ascent of the gangways had proved to be more successful than usual, Winifred had
attributed the good luck to the virtues contained in her lemonade bottle. Ah! superstition
seemed pretty enough then.

At first in the forlorn hope that memory might have attracted her thither, and afterwards because
there was a fascination for me in the well on account of its association with her, my pilgrimages
to Holywell were as frequent as those of any of the afflicted devotees of the olden time, whose
crutches left behind testified to the genuineness of the Saint's pretensions. Into that well
Winnie's innocent young eyes had gazed--gazed in the full belief that the holy water would
cure me--gazed in the full belief that the crimson stains made by the byssus on the stones
were stains left by her martyr-namesake's blood.