So Jimmie went back to the underground dungeon, and for eight hours every day a chain was fastened
about his wrists, and the other end run up into the iron ring, so that his feet barely touched
the floor; and there Jimmie hung, and tried out his conscience--this being the test then being
undergone by many men at the disciplinary barracks at Fort Leavenworth. Jimmie's conscience
really was nothing like as strong as it ought to have been. Jimmie had moods of shameless self-pity,
moods of desperate and agonizing doubt. He did not mean to let his dungeon-keepers know this,
but they listened behind the door through a slot which the Tsar had had contrived for this
purpose; it could be closed while the prisoner was screaming under torture, and then opened
by the jailer without the prisoner's knowledge.

So Perkins heard Jimmie sobbing and wailing, talking to himself and to other people--to someone
called "Strawberry", and to someone else called "Wild Bill", asking them if they had ever suffered
anything like this, and was it really worth while, would it help the revolution? Perkins thought
he had got some important information here, and took it to Lieutenant Gannet, with the result
that inquiry was made through all the American Forces for men known as "Strawberry" and "Wild
Bill". But these men could not be found; as it happened, "Wild Bill" had taken refuge in a
place to which not even the army intelligence service can penetrate, and "Strawberry" Curran
was just then being tried with a bunch of other "wobblies" in California and subjected to much
the same kind of treatment as Jimmie was receiving in Archangel.

It was a big advantage that Sergeant Perkins had in his struggle with Jimmie, that the pitiful
weakness of Jimmy's soul was exposed to him, while the soul of Perkins was hidden from Jimmie.
For the truth was that Perkins was suffering from rage, mingled with not a little fear. What
the hell was this idea that could keep a little runt of a working-man stronger than all in
authority? And how was this idea to be kept from spreading and wrecking the comfortable, well-ordered
world in which Perkins expected soon to receive an army commission? The very day after the
court-martial, which was supposed to be a profound military secret, the army authorities were
astounded to discover, posted in several conspicuous places, a placard in English, reading:

"American soldiers, do you know that an army sergeant is being tortured and has been sentenced
to twenty years in a dungeon for having tried to tell you how the Bolsheviki are making propaganda
against the German Kaiser?

"Do you know the true reason your armies are here? Are you willing to die to compel the Russian
people to accept your ideas of government? Are you willing to have your comrades tortured to
keep the facts from you?"

And of course the doughboys who read this placard wanted to know if it told the truth. And
quickly word spread that it did. Men who still had copies of the leaflet which Jimmie had distributed
now found eager readers for it, and soon all the men knew its contents, and were debating the
question of the use of American armies to put down social revolution in a foreign country.
These same questions were being asked in the halls of Congress back home. Senators were questioning
the right of sending troops into a country against which war had never been declared, and other
Senators were demanding that they be immediately withdrawn. And this news also reached the
men, and increased the danger. Archangel was not a pleasant place to stay, especially with
winter coming on fast; men were disposed to grumble--and now they had a pretext!

IV

The authorities who were handling this army laboured under one grievous handicap, probably
never before faced by any army in history. The Commander-in-Chief of the army, who determined
its policies and tried to set its moral tone, kept coming now and then before Congress and
making speeches full of incendiary and reckless utterances, calculated to set dangerous thoughts
to buzzing in the heads of soldiers, to break down discipline and undermine morale. The President
wrote a letter to a political convention in which he declared that the workers of America were
living in "economic serfdom"; he declared again and again that every people had a right to
determine their own destinies and form of government without outside interference. This while
the army was trying to put down those Russians who were in revolt against "economic serfdom"
in their own country!

An army, you see, is a machine built to fight; a man who goes into it and takes part in its
work, very quickly acquires its tone, which is one of abysmal contempt for all politicians,
particularly of the talking and letter-writing variety, the "idealists" and "dreamers" and
"theorists", who do not understand that the business of men is to fight battles and win them.
All the officers of the old army, the West-Pointers, had been bred in the tradition of class-rule,
they had in their very bones the idea that they were a special breed, that obedience to them
was a law of God; while of the new officers, the overwhelming majority came from the well-to-do,
and were not favourable to speech-making and letter-writing about the rights of man. They were
without enthusiasm for the idea of having a pacifist secretary of war set over them by the
"idealist" commander-in-chief. They did not hesitate to vent their indignation; and when this
pacifist secretary gave orders about conscientious objectors which were based upon sentimentalism
and theory, the army machine took the liberty of interpreting these orders and trimming the
nonsense out of them. And the farther away you got from the office of the pacifist secretary,
the more thorough the trimming inevitably became; thus producing the phenomenon which poor
Jimmie Higgins found so bewildering--that policies laid down by sincere humanitarians and liberals
in Washington were carried out in Archangel by an ex-detective trained in a school of corruption
and cruelty.

Jimmie Higgins couldn't understand that here in Archangel were Americans taking their orders
from British and French officers, who wasted no breath on pacifism and sentiment, who had no
fool ideas about wars for democracy. Was one obscure little runt of a Socialist machinist to
be allowed to block their world-plans? Setting himself up as an authority, presuming to accept
literally the passages of his President, in defiance of their authority in Archangel! Allying
himself with traitorous and criminal scoundrels, trying to poison the minds of American soldiers
and light the flame of mutiny among them! Just as once Jimmie Higgins had found himself in
a strategic position where he had held up the whole Hun army and won the battle of Chateau-Thierry,
so now he found himself in a position of equal strategic importance--on the line of communication
of the Allied armies attacking Russia, and threatening to cut the line and force the armies
into retreat!

V

