"I lose my breath when I climb a hill or a steep flight of stairs," said the patient. "If I
hurry, I often get a sharp pain in my side. Those are the symptoms of a serious heart trouble."

"Not necessarily, sir," began the physician, but he was interrupted.

"I beg your pardon!" said the patient irritably. "It isn't for a young physician like you to
disagree with an old and experienced invalid like me, sir!"

     *       *       *       *       *

There is no absolute standard for the proper degree of solicitude regarding one's health, but
if the habitual invalid possess a physique which would not preclude the average normal individual
from being out and about, even at the expense of a pain, a stomach ache, or a cold, there is
probably a hypochondriacal element in the case. It is a question of adjustment of effect to cause.

The term "imaginary" is too loosely applied to the sensations of the hypochondriac. This designation
is unjustified, and only irritates the sufferer, rouses his antagonism, and undermines his
confidence in the judgment of his adviser. He knows that the sensations are there. To call
them imaginary is like telling one who inspects an insect through a microscope that the claws
do not look enormous; they do look enormous--through the microscope--but this does not make
them so. The worrier must learn to realize that he is looking at his sensations, as he does
everything else, through a microscope.

If a person living near a waterfall ignores the sound, he soon ceases to notice it, but if
he listens for it, it increases, and becomes finally unbearable. Common sense teaches him to
concentrate his attention elsewhere; similarly, it demands that the victim of "hypos" disregard
his various sensations and devote his attention to outside affairs, unless the sensations are
accompanied by obvious physical signs. Instead of running to the doctor, let him do something--ride
horseback, play golf, anything requiring exercise out of doors. Let him devote his entire energy
to the exercise, and thus substitute the healthy sensations of fatigue and hunger for the exaggerated
pains and the anomalous sensations which are fostered by self-study. Let him remember moreover,
that nature will stand an enormous amount of outside abuse, but resents being kept under close
surveillance.

In practicing the neglect of the sensations, one should not allow his mind to dwell on the
possibility that he is overlooking something serious, but rather on the danger of his becoming
"hipped," a prey to his own doubts and fears, and unable to accomplish anything in life beyond
catering to his own morbid fancies.

     *       *       *       *       *

Turning now to the bibliographic study of hypochondria, an interesting and characteristic contrast
is offered between Huxley, who called himself a hypochondriac, but apparently was not, and
Carlyle, who resented the imputation, though it apparently had some justification in fact.

With regard to Huxley,--the only basis for the diagnosis hypochondria in a given case, is undoubted
evidence, by letter or conversation, that the question of health is given undue prominence.
I have looked carefully through the volume of Huxley's letters (published by his son), without
definitely establishing this diagnosis. The state of his health and the question of his personal
comfort received comparatively little attention. A man in the prime of life!"

With regard to Carlyle,--it is true, as claimed by Gould (Biographic Clinics, 1903) that he
showed every evidence of eyestrain with resulting symptoms, particularly headache. This does
not, however, preclude his having had hypochondria also, and in view of the violent and reiterated
complaints running through his letters it seems quite credible that Froude's estimate of his
condition was not far wrong. Surely, unless Carlyle was merely trying his pen without intending
to be taken seriously, he devoted to the question of health a degree of attention which may
be fairly adjudged undue.

The first letter I quote (from those cited by Gould in fortifying his position) is of special
interest as presenting in rather lurid terms Carlyle's ideal of health. After reading this
letter one cannot help suspecting that the discomforts so vividly described in his other letters
were compared by him with this ideal rather than with those of the average individual. A man
all lucid, and in equilibrium.

The following extracts illustrate his attitude toward his physical shortcomings, whatever they
may have been.

... "A prey to nameless struggles and miseries, which have yet a kind of horror in them to
my thoughts, three weeks without any kind of sleep, from impossibility to be free from noise."

"I sleep irregularly here, and feel a little, very little, more than my usual share of torture
every day. What the cause is would puzzle me to explain. I take exercise sufficient daily;
I attend with rigorous minuteness to the quality of my food; I take all the precautions that
I can, yet still the disease abates not."

"Ill-health, the most terrific of all miseries."

"Grown sicker and sicker.... I want health, health, health! On this subject I am becoming quite
furious.... If I do not soon recover, I am miserable forever and ever. They talk of the benefit
of health from a moral point of view. I declare solemnly, without exaggeration, that I impute
nine-tenths of my present wretchedness, and rather more than nine-tenths of all my faults,
to this infernal disorder in the stomach."

"Bilious, too, in these smothering windless days."

"Broke down in the park; konnte nichts mehr, being sick and weak beyond measure."

"Many days of suffering, of darkness, of despondency.... Ill-health has much to do with it."

"Occasionally sharp pain (something cutting hard, grasping me around the heart).... Something
from time to time tying me tight as it were, all around the region of the heart, and strange
dreams haunting me."

"There is a shivering precipitancy in me, which makes emotion of any kind a thing to be shunned.
It is my nerves, my nerves.... Such a nervous system as I have.... Thomas feeling in his breast
for comfort and finding bilious fever.... All palpitating, fluttered with sleeplessness and
drug-taking, etc.... Weary and worn with dull blockheadism, chagrin (next to no sleep the night
before)."

"A head full of air; you know that wretched physical feeling; I had been concerned with drugs,
had awakened at five, etc. It is absolute martyrdom."

"A huge nightmare of indigestion, insomnia, and fits of black impatience with myself and others,--self
chiefly.... I am heartily sick of my dyspeptic bewilderment and imprisonment."

"Alas! Alas! I ought to be wrapped in cotton wool, and laid in a locked drawer at present.
I can stand nothing. I am really ashamed of the figure I cut."

Froude's statements regarding Carlyle's condition are as follows:

"... The simple natural life, the 'wholesome air, the daily rides or drives, the poor food,...
had restored completely the functions of a stomach never so far wrong as he had imagined....
Afterwards he was always impatient, moody, irritable, violent. These humours were in his nature,
and he could no more be separated from them than his body could leap off its shadow.... He
looked back to it as the happiest and wholesomest home that he had ever known. He could do
fully twice as much work there, he said, as he could ever do afterwards in London."

"... If his liver occasionally troubled him, livers trouble most of us as we advance in life,
and his actual constitution was a great deal stronger than that of ordinary men.... Why could
not Carlyle, with fame and honor and troops of friends, and the gates of a great career flung
open before him, and a great intellect and a conscience untroubled by a single act which he
need regret, bear and forget too? Why indeed! The only answer is that Carlyle was Carlyle."

These observations carry weight as representing the impartial and judicial estimate of a careful
observer desiring only accurately to picture Carlyle as he was. The only logical conclusion,
it seems to me, was that Carlyle, in addition to ocular defect with its legitimate consequences,
was weighed down by worry over the failure to realize his own exaggerated ideal of health,
that he devoted an undue degree of attention to this subject and was unduly anxious about it--in
other words, that he had decided hypochondriacal tendencies.

VIII.

NEURASTHENIA

It was a common saying of Myson that men ought not to investigate things from words, but words
from things; for that things are not made for the sake of words, but words for things.

Diogenes Laertius.

This term (properly, though not commonly, accented upon the penult), was introduced by Beard
to designate the large class of over-worked and worried who crowded his consulting room. The
word is derived from the Greek neuron nerve, and astheneia weakness.

Among the symptoms of this disorder have been included disorders of digestion and circulation,
muscular weakness, pains, flushes and chills, and anomalous sensations of every variety. It
has been especially applied to cases showing such mental peculiarities as morbid self-study,
fear of insanity and the various other phobias, scruples, and doubts with which we have become
familiar.

The "American Disease" has been adopted abroad, and volumes have been devoted to it. Neurasthenia
has been divided into cerebral, spinal, and otherwise, according as the fears and sensations
of the patient are referred to one or another part of his body. While the term neurasthenia
is becoming daily more familiar to the general public, it is being, on the whole, used, except
as a convenient handle, rather less among neurologists. [Footnote: In substantiation of this
statement I need only cite the recent contribution of my friend, Dr. Dana, on the "Partial
Passing of Neurasthenia."] The question has arisen whether the symptoms of neurasthenia are
always due to simple exhaustion. Advice regarding method, as well as amount, of work, is coming
into vogue. Peterson, in a letter published in Collier's Weekly (November 9, 1907) thus arraigns
a patient who has told him he is a practical business man, and that his mind has been so occupied
with serious matters that he has been unable to attend to his health.

"You, practical! you, a business man! Why, you never had a serious thought in your life until
now--at least not since you were a lad in the country.... Since boyhood you have never given
a serious thought to health, home, wife, children, education, art, science, racial progress,
or to the high destiny of man. You are simply a collector of money for its own sake, with no
appreciation of what it might represent if you were really serious and really a business man
or man of affairs. There are many like you in our asylum wards, where they are known as chronic
maniacs. Here is one who collects bits of glass, old corks, and pieces of string. There sits
another with a lap full of pebbles, twigs and straws."

Courtney (in Pyle's "Personal Hygiene") says, "The brain is an organ which, under proper training,
is capable of performing an immense amount of work, provided only that the work is of a varied
character and does not produce a corresponding amount of mental disquietude. The importance
of the emotions, especially the depressing emotions such as grief, anxiety, and worry, as factors
in the brain exhaustion, cannot easily be overestimated."

