  One can always obtain something to eat before starting by waiting
till an hour after sunrise, but I have had quite enough of these people's importunities to
make breakfasting with them a secondary consideration, and so pull out at early daylight. The
road is exceptionally good, but an east wind rises with the sun and quickly develops into a
stiff breeze that renders riding against it anything but child's play; no rose is to be expected
without a thorn, nevertheless it is rather aggravating to have the good road and the howling
head-wind happen together, especially in traversing a country where good roads are the exception
instead of the rule.  About eight o'clock I reach a village situated at the entrance to a rocky
defile, with a babbling brook dancing through the space between its two divisions. Upon inquiring
for refreshments, a man immediately orders his wife to bring me pillau.  For some reason or
other - perhaps the poor woman has none prepared; who knows? - the woman, instead of obeying
the command like a "guid wifey," enters upon a wordy demurrer, whereupon her husband borrows
a hoe-handle from a bystander and advances to chastise her for daring to thus hesitate about
obeying his orders; the woman retreats precipitately into the house, heaping Turkish epithets
on her devoted husband's head.  This woman is evidently a regular termagant, or she would never
have used such violent language to her husband in the presence of a stranger and the whole
village; some day, if she doesn't be more reasonable, her husband, instead of satisfying his
outraged feelings by chastising her with a hoe-handle, will, in a moment of passion, bid her
begone from his house, which in Turkish law constitutes a legal separation; if the command
be given in the presence of a competent witness it is irrevocable.  Seeing me thus placed,
as it were, in an embarrassing situation, another woman - dear, thoughtful creature! - fetches
me enough wheat piilau to feed a mule, and a nice bowl of yaort, off which I make a substantial
breakfast.  Near by where I am eating are five industrious maidens, preparing cracked or broken
wheat by a novel and interesting process, that has hitherto failed to come under my observation;
perhaps it is peculiar to the Sivas vilayet, which I have now entered.  A large rock is hollowed
out like a shallow druggist's mortar; wheat is put in, and several girls (sometimes as many
as eight, I am told by the American missionaries at Sivas) gather in a circle about it, and
pound the wheat with light, long-headed mauls or beetles, striking in regular succession, as
the reader has probably seen a gang of circus roustabouts driving tent-pins.  When I first
saw circus tent-pins driven in this manner, a few years ago, I remember hearing on-lookers
remarking it as quite novel and wonderful how so many could be striking the same peg without
their swinging sledges coming into collision; but that very same performance has been practised
by the maidens hereabout, it seems, from time immemorial- another proof that there is nothing
new under the sun.  Ten miles of good riding, and I wheel into the considerable town of Yennikhan,
a place sufficiently important to maintain a public coffee-khan and several small shops.  Here
I take aboard a pocketful of fine large pears, and after wheeling a couple of miles to a secluded
spot, halt for the purpose of shifting the pears from my pocket to where they will be better
appreciated. Ere I have finished the second pear, a gentle goatherd, who from an adjacent hill
observed me alight, appears upon the scene and waits around, with the laudable intention of
further enlightening his mind when I remount.  He is carrying a musical instrument something
akin to a flute; it is a mere hollow tube with the customary finger-holes, but it is blown
at the end; having neither reed nor mouth-piece of any description, it requires a peculiar
sidewise application of the lips, and is not to be blown readily by a novice.  When properly
played, it produces soft, melodious music that, to say nothing else, must exert a gentle soothing
influence on the wild, turbulent souls of a herd of goats.  The goatherd offers me a cake of
ekmek out of his wallet, as a sort of a I peace - offering, but thanks to a generous breakfast,
music hath more charms at present than dry ekmek, and handing him a pear, I strike up a bargain
by which he is to entertain me with a solo until I am ready to start, when of course he will
be amply recompensed by seeing me bin; the bargain is agreed to, and the solo duly played.
East of Yennikhan, the road develops into an excellent macadamized highway, on which I find
plenty of genuine amusement by electrifying the natives whom I chance to meet or overtake.
Creeping noiselessly up behind an unsuspecting donkey-driver, until quite close, I suddenly
reveal my presence.  Looking round and observing a strange, unearthly combination, apparently
swooping down upon him, the affrighted katir-jee's first impulse is to seek refuge in flight,
not infrequently bolting clear off the roadway, before venturing upon taking a second look.
Sometimes I simply put on a spurt, and whisk past at a fifteen mile pace.  Looking back, the
katir-jee generally seems rooted to the spot with astonishment, and his utter inability to
comprehend. These men will have marvellous tales to tell in their respective villages concerning
what they saw; unless other bicycles are introduced, the time the "Ingilisiu" went through
the country with his wonderful araba will become a red-letter event in the memory of the people
along my route through Asia Minor.  Crossing the Yeldez Irmak Eiver, on a stone bridge, I follow
along the valley of the head-waters of our old acquaintance, the Kizil Irmak, and at three
o'clock in the afternoon, roll into Sivas, having wheeled nearly fifty miles to-day, the last
forty of which will compare favorably in smoothness, though not in leveluess, with any forty-
mile stretch I know of in the United States.  Prom Angora I have brought a letter of introduction
to Mr. Ernest Weakley, a young Englishman, engaged, together with Mr. Kodigas, a Belgian gentleman,
for the Ottoman Government, in collecting the Sivas vilayet's proportion of the Russian indemnity;
and I am soon installed in hospitable quarters.  Sivas artisans enjoy a certain amount of celebrity
among their compatriots of other Asia Minor cities for unusual skilfulness. particularly in
making filigree silver work.  Toward evening myself and Mr. Weakley take a stroll through the
silversmiths' quarters.  The quarters consist of twenty or thirty small wooden shops, surrounding
an oblong court; spreading willows and a tiny rivulet running through it give the place a semi-rural
appearance. In the little open-front workshops, which might more appropriately be called stalls,
Armenian silversmiths are seated cross-legged, some working industriously at their trade, others
gossiping and sipping coffee with friends or purchasers.

"Doesn't it call up ideas of what you conceive the quarters of the old alchemists to have been
hundreds of years ago." asks my companion. "Precisely what I was on the eve of suggesting to
you," I reply, and then we drop into one of the shops, sip coffee with the old silversmith,
and examine his filigree jewelry.  There is nothing denoting remarkable skill about any of
it; an intricate pattern of their jewelry simply represents a great expenditure of time and
Asiatic patience, and the finishing of clasps, rivetting, etc., is conspicuously rough.  Sivas
was also formerly a seat of learning; the imposing gates, with portions of the fronts of the
old Arabic universities are still standing, with sufficient beautiful arabesque designs in
glazed tile-work still undestroyed, to proclaim eloquently of departed glories.  The squalid
mud hovels of refugees from the Caucasus now occupy the interior of these venerable edifices;
ragged urchins romp with dogs and baby buffaloes where pashas' sons formerly congregated to
learn wisdom from the teachings of their prophet, and now what remains of the intricate arabesque
designs, worked out in small, bright-colored tiles, that once formed the glorious ceiling of
the dome, seems to look down reproachfully, and yet sorrowfully, upon the wretched heaps of
tezek placed beneath it for shelter.

I am remaining over one day at Sivas, and in the morning we call on the American missionaries.
Mr. Perry is at home, and hopes I am going to stay a week, so that they can "sort of make up
for the discomforts of journeying through the country;" Mr. Hubbard and the ladies of the Mission
are out of town, but will be back this evening.  After dinner we go round to the government
konak and call on the Vali, Hallil Eifaat Pasha, whom Mr. Weakley describes beforehand as a
very practical man, fond of mechanical contrivances; and who would never forgive him if he
allowed me to leave Sivas with the bicycle without paying him a visit. The usual rigmarole
of salaams, cigarettes, coffee, compliments, and questioning are gone through with; the Vali
is a jolly-faced, good-natured man, and is evidently much interested in my companion's description
of the bicycle and my journey.  Of course I don't forget to praise the excellence of the road
from Yennikhan; I can conscientiously tell him that it is superior to anything I have wheeled
over south of the Balkans; the Pasha is delighted at hearing this, and beaming joyously over
his spectacles, his fat jolly face a rotund picture of satisfaction, he says to Mr. Weakley:
"You see, he praises up our roads; and he ought to know, he has travelled on wagon roads half
way round the world." The interview ends by the Vali inviting me to ride the bicycle out to
his country residence this evening, giving the order for a squad of zaptiehs to escort me out
of town at the appointed time.  "The Vali is one of the most energetic pashas in Turkey," says
Mr. Weakley, as we take our departure.  "You would scarcely believe that he has established
a small weekly newspaper here, and makes it self-supporting into the bargain, would you." 
"I confess I don't see how he manages it among these people," I reply, quite truthfully, for
these are anything but newspaper- supporting people; "how does he manage to make it self-supporting?"
Why, he makes every employe of the government subscribe for a certain number of copies, and
the subscription price is kept back out of their salaries; for instance, the mulazim of zaptiehs
would have to take half a dozen copies, the mutaserif a dozen, etc.; if from any unforeseen
cause the current expenses are found to be more than the income, a few additional copies are
saddled on each 'subscriber.'  "Before leaving Sivas, I arrive at the conclusion that Hallil
Eifaat Pasha knows just about what's what; while administering the affairs of the Sivas vilayet
in a manner that has gained him the good-will of the population at large, he hasn't neglected
his opportunities at the Constantinople end of the rope; more than one beautiful Circassian
girl has, I am told, been forwarded to the Sultan's harem by the enterprising and sagacious
Sivas Vali; consequently he holds "trump cards," so to speak, both in the province and the
palace. Promptly at the hour appointed the squad of zaptiehs arrive; Mr. Weakley mounts his
servant on a prancing Arab charger, and orders him to manoeuvre the horse so as to clear the
way in front; the zaptiehs commence their flogging, and in the middle of the cleared space
I trundle the bicycle. While making our way through the streets, Mr. Hubbard, who, with the
ladies, has just returned to the city, is encountered on the way to invite Mr. Weakley and
myself to supper; as he pushes his way through the crowd and reaches my side, he pronounces
it the worst rabble he ever saw in the streets of Sivas, and he has been stationed here over
twelve years.  Once clear of the streets, I mount and soon outdistance the crowd, though still
followed by a number of horsemen.  Part way out we wait for the Vali's state carriage, in which
he daily rides between the city and his residence.  "While waiting, a terrific squall of wind
and dust comes howling from the direction we are going, and while it is still blowing great
guns, the Vali and his mounted escort arrive.  His Excellency alights and examines the Columbia
with much interest, and then requests me to ride on immediately in advance of the carriage.
The grade is slightly against me, and the whistling wind seems to be shrieking a defiance;
but by superhuman efforts, almost, I pedal ahead and manage to keep in front of his horses
all the way.  The distance from Sivas is four and a quarter miles by the cyclometer; this is
the first time it has ever been measured. We are ushered into a room quite elegantly furnished,
and light refreshments served.  Observing my partiality for vishner-su, the Governor kindly
offers me a flask of the syrup to take along; which I am, however, reluctantly compelled to
refuse, owing to my inability to carry it.  Here, also, we meet Djaved Bey, the Pasha's son,
who has recently returned from Constantinople, and who says he saw me riding at Prinkipo. 
The Vali gets down on his hands and knees to examine the route of my journey on a map of the
world which he spreads out on the carpet; he grows quite enthusiastic, and exclaims, "Wonderful."
" Very wonderful!" says Djaved Bey; "when you get back to America they will-build you a statue."
Mr. Hubbard has mounted a horse and followed us to the Vali's residence, and at the approach
of dusk we take our departure; the wind is favorable for the return, as is also the gradient;
ere my two friends have unhitched their horses, I mount and am scudding before the gale half
a mile away.

"Hi hi-hi-hi! you'll never overtake him." the Vali shouts enthusiastically to the two horsemen
as they start at full gallop after me, and which they laughingly repeat to me shortly afterward.
A very pleasant evening is spent at Mr. Hubbard's house; after supper the ladies sing "Sweet
Bye and Bye," "Home, Sweet Home," and other melodious reminders of the land of liberty and
song that gave them birth.  Everything looks comfortable and homelike, and they have English
ivy inside the dining-room trained up the walls and partly covering the ceiling, which produces
a wonderfully pleasant effect.  The usual extraordinary rumors of my wonderful speeding ability
have circulated about the city during the day and evening, some of which have happened to come
to the ears of the missionaries.  One story is that I came from the port of Samsoon, a distance
of nearly three hundred miles, in six hours, while an imaginative katir-jee, whom I whisked
past on the road, has been telling the Sivas people an exaggerated story of how a genii had
ridden past him with lightning-like speed on a shining wheel; but whether it was a good or
an evil genii he said he didn't have time to determine, as I went past like a flash and vanished
in the distance.  The missionaries have four hundred scholars attending their school here at
Sivas, which would seem to indicate a pretty flourishing state of affairs.  Their recruiting
ground is, of I course, among the Armenians, who, though professedly Christiana really stand
in more need of regeneration than their Mohammedan neighbors.  The characteristic condition
of the average Armenian villager's mind is deep, dense ignorance and moral gloominess; it requires
more patience and perseverance to ingraft a new idea on the unimpressionable trunk of an Armenian
villager's intellect than it does to put up second-hand stove-pipe; and it is a generally admitted
fact - i.e., west of the Missouri Elver - that anyone capable of setting up three joints of
second-hand stove-pipe without using profane language deserves a seat in Paradise. "Come in
here a minute," says Mr. Hubbard, just before our I departure for the night, leading the way
into an adjoining room.; I "here's shirts, underclothing, socks, handkerchiefs-everything;.!
help yourself to anything you require; I know something about I travelling through this country
myself.  " But not caring to impose too much on good nature, I content myself with merely pocketing
a strong pair of socks, that I know will come in handy.  I leave the bicycle at the mission
over night, and in the morning, at Miss Chamberlain's request, I ride round the school-house
yard a few times for the edification of the scholars.  The greatest difficulty, I am informed,
with Armenian pupils is to get them to take sufficient interest in anything to ask questions;
it is mainly because the bicycle will be certain to awaken interest, and excite the spirit
of inquiry among them, that I am requested to ride for their benefit.  Thus is the bicycle
fairly recognized as a valuable aid to missionary work.  Moral: let the American and Episcopal
boards provide their Asia Minor and Persian missionaries with nickel-plated bicycles; let them
wheel their way into the empty wilderness of the Armenian mind, and. light up the impenetrable
moral darkness lurking therein with the glowing and mist-dispelling orbs of cycle lamps.  Messrs.
Perry, Hubbard, and Weakley accompany me out some distance on horseback, and at parting I am
commissioned to carry salaams to the brethren in China.  This is the first opportunity that
has ever presented of sending greetings overland to far-off China, they say, and such rare
occasions are not to be lightly overlooked.  They also promise to send word to the Erzeroum
mission to expect me; the chances are, however, that I shall reach Erzeroum before their letter;
there are no lightning mail trains in Asia Minor.  The road eastward from Sivas is an artificial
highway, and affords reasonably good wheeling, but is somewhat inferior to the road from Yennikhau.
Before long I enter a region of low hills, dales, and small lakes, beyond which the road again
descends into the valley of the Kizil Irmak.  All day long the roadway averages better wheeling
than I ever expected to find in Asiatic Turkey; but the prevailing east wind offers strenuous
opposition to my progress every inch of the way along the hundred miles or so of ridable road
from Yennikhan to Zara, a town at which I arrive near sundown.  Zara is situated at the entrance
to a narrow passage between two mountain spurs, and although the road is here a dead level
and the surface smooth, the wind comes roaring from the gorge with such tremendous pressure
that it is only by extraordinary exertions that I am able to keep the saddle.

Tifticjeeoghlou Effendi was a gentleman of Greek descent.  At Zara I have an opportunity of
seeing and experiencing something of what hospitality is like among the better class Armenians,
for I have brought from Sivas a letter of introduction to Kirkor-agha Tartarian, the most prominent
Armenian gentleman in Zara.  I have no difficulty whatever in finding the house, and am at
once installed in the customary position of honor, while five serving-men hover about, ready
to wait on me; some take a hand in the inevitable ceremony of preparing and serving coffee
and lighting cigarettes, while others stand watchfully by awaiting word or look from myself
or mine host, or from the privileged guests that immediately begin to arrive.  The room is
of cedar planking throughout, and is absolutely without furniture, save the carpeting and the
cushioned divan on which I am seated.  Mr. Tartarian sits crossed-legged on the carpet to my
left, smoking a nargileh; his younger brother occupies a similar position on my right, rolling
and smoking cigarettes; while the guests, as they arrive, squat themselves on the carpet in
positions varying in distance from the divan, according to their respective rank and social
importance. No one ventures to occupy the cushioned divan alongside myself, although the divan
is fifteen feet long, and it makes me feel uncomfortably like the dog in the manger to occupy
its whole length alone.  In a farther corner, and off the slightly raised and carpeted floor
on which are seated the guests, is a small brick fire-place, on which a charcoal fire is brightly
burning, and here Mr. Vartarian's private kahvay-jee is kept busily employed in brewing tiny
cups of strong black coffee; another servant constantly visits the fire to ferret out pieces
of glowing charcoal with small pipe-lighting tongs, with which he circulates among the guests,
supplying a light to the various smokers of cigarettes.  A third youth is kept pretty tolerably
busy performing the same office for Mr. Vartarian's nargileh, for the gentleman is an inveterate
smoker, and in all Turkey there can scarcely be another nargileh requiring so much tinkering
with as his.  All the livelong evening something keeps getting wrong with that wretched pipe;
mine host himself is continually rearranging the little pile of live coals on top of the dampened
tobacco (the tobacco smoked in a nargileh is dampened, and live coals are placed on top), taking
off the long coiled tube and blowing down it, or prying around in the tobacco receptacle with
an awl-like instrument in his efforts to make it draw properly, but without making anything
like a success; while his nargileh-boy is constantly hovering over it with a new supply of
live coals.  "Job himself could scarcely have been possessed of more patience," I think at
first; but before the evening is over I come to the conclusion that my worthy host wouldn't
exchange that particular hubble-bubble with its everlasting contrariness for the most perfectly
drawing nargileh in Turkey: like certain devotees of the weed among ourselves, who never seem
to be happier than when running a broom-straw down the stem of a pipe that chronically refuses
to draw, so Kirkor-agha Vartarian finds his chief amusement in thus tinkering from one week's
end to another with his nargileh.  At the supper table mine host and his brother both lavish
attentions upon me; knives and forks of course there are none, these things being seldom seen
in Asia Minor, and to a cycler who has spent the day in pedalling against a stiff breeze, their
absence is a matter of small moment.  I am ravenously hungry, and they both win my warmest
esteem by transferring choice morsels from their own plates into mine with their fingers. 
From what I know of strict haut ton Zaran etiquette, I think they should really pop these tid-bits
in my mouth, and the reason they don't do so is, perhaps, because I fail to open it in the
customary haut ton manner; however, it is a distasteful thing to be always sticking up for
one's individual rights.  A pile of quilts and mattresses, three feet thick, and feather pillows
galore are prepared for me to sleep on.  An attendant presents himself with a wonderful night-
shirt, on the ample proportions of which are displayed bewildering colors and figures; and
following the custom of the country, shapes himself for undressing me and assisting me into
bed.  This, however, I prefer to do without assistance, owing to a large stock of native modesty.
I never fell among people more devoted in their attentions; their only thought during my stay
is to make me comfortable; but they are very ceremonious and great sticklers for etiquette.
I had intended making my usual early start, but mine host receives with open disapproval -
I fancy even with a showing of displeasure - my proposition to depart without first partaking
of refreshments, and it is nearly eight o'clock before I finally get started.  Immediately
after rising comes the inevitable coffee and early morning visitors; later an attendant arrives
with breakfast for myself on a small wooden tray.  Mr. Vartarian occupies precisely the same
position, and is engaged in precisely the same occupation as yesterday evening, as is also
his brother.  No sooner does the hapless attendant make his appearance with the eatables than
these two persons spring simultaneously to their feet, apparently in a towering rage, and chase
him back out of the room, meanwhile pursuing him with a torrent of angry words; they then return
to their respective positions and respective occupations. Ten minutes later the attendant reappears,
but this time bringing a larger tray with an ample spread for three persons; this, it afterward
appears, is not because mine host and his brother intends partaking of any, but because it
is Armenian etiquette to do so, and Armenian etiquette therefore becomes responsible for the
spectacle of a solitary feeder seated at breakfast with dishes and everything prepared for
three, while of the other two, one is smoking a nargileh, the other cigarettes, and both of
them regarding my evident relish of scrambled eggs and cold fowl with intense satisfaction.

Having by this time determined to merely drift with the current of mine host's intentions concerning
the time of my departure, I resume my position on the divan after breakfasting, simply hinting
that I would like to depart as soon as possible.  To this Mr. Vartarian complacently nods assent,
and his brother, with equal complacency rolls me a cigarette, after which a good half-hour
is consumed in preparing for me a letter of introduction to their friend Mudura Ghana in the
village of Kachahurda, which I expect to reach somewhere near noon; mine host dictates while
his brother writes.  Visitors continue coming in, and I am beginning to get a trifle impatient
about starting; am beginning in fact to wish all their nonsensical ceremoniousness at the bottom
of tho deep blue sea or some equally unfathomable quarter, when, at a signal from Mr. Vartarian
himself, his brother and tho whole roomful of visitors rise simultaneously to their feet, and
equally simultaneously put their hands on their respective stomachs, and, turning toward me,
salaam; mine host then comes forward, shakes hands, gives me the letter to Mudura Ghana, and
permits me to depart.  He has provided two zaptiehs to escort me outside the town, and in a
few minutes I find myself bowling briskly along a beautiful little valley; the pellucid waters
of a purling brook dance merrily alongside an excellent piece of road; birds are singing merrily
in the willow-trees, and dark rocky crags tower skyward immediately around.  The lovely little
valley terminates all too soon, for in fifteen minutes I am footing it up another mountain;
but it proves to be the entrance gate of a region containing grander pine-clad mountain scenery
than anything encountered outside the Sierra Nevadas; in fact the famous scenery of Cape Horn,
California, almost finds its counterpart at one particular point I traverse this morning; only
instead of a Central Pacific Railway winding around the gray old crags and precipices, the
enterprising Sivas Vali has built an araba road.  One can scarce resist the temptation of wheeling
down some of the less precipitous slopes, but it is sheer indiscretion, for the roadway makes
sharp turns at points where to continue straight ahead a few feet too far would launch one
into eternity; a broken brake, a wild "coast" of a thousand feet through mid-air into the dark
depths of a rocky gorge, and the "tour around the world" would abruptly terminate.  For a dozen
miles I traverse a tortuous road winding its way among wild mountain gorges and dark pine forests;
Circassian horsemen are occasionally encountered: it seems the most appropriate place imaginable
for robbers, and I have again been cautioned against these freebooting mountaineers at Sivas.
They eye me curiously, and generally halt after they have passed, and watch my progress for
some minutes.  Once I am overtaken by a couple of them; they follow close behind me up a mountain
slope; they are heavily armed and look capable of anything, and I plod along, mentally calculating
how to best encompass their destruction with the Smith & "Wesson, without coming to grief myself,
should their intentions toward me prove criminal.  It is not exactly comfortable or reassuring
to have two armed horsemen, of a people who are regarded with universal fear and mistrust by
everybody around them, following close upon one's heels, with the disadvantage of not being
able to keep an eye on their movements; however, they have little to say; and as none of them
attempt any interference, it is not for me to make insinuations against them on the barren
testimony of their outward appearance and the voluntary opinions of their neighbors.

My route now leads up a rocky ravine, the road being fairly under cover of over-arching rocks
at times, thence over a billowy region of mountain summits-an elevated region of pine-clad
ridges and rocky peaks-to descend again into a cultivated country of undulating hills and dales,
checkered with fields of grain.  These low rolling hills appear to be in a higher state of
cultivation than any district I have traversed in Asia Minor; from points of vantage the whole
country immediately around looks like a swelling sea of golden grain; harvesting is going merrily
on; men and women are reaping side by side in the fields, and the songs of the women come floating
through the air from all directions.  They are Armenian peasants, for I am now in Armenia proper;
the inhabitants of this particular locality impress me as a light hearted, industrious people;
they have an abundant harvest, and it is a pleasure to stand and see them reap, and listen
to the singing of the women; moreover they are more respectably clothed than the lower class
natives round about them, barring, of course, our unfathomable acquaintances, the Circassians.

Toward the eastern extremity of this peaceful, happy scene is the village of Kachahurda, which
I reach soon after noon, and where resides Mfrdura Ghana, to whom I bring a letter.  Picturesquely
speaking, Kachahurda is a disgrace to the neighborhood in which it stands; its mud hovels are
combined cow-pens, chicken-coops, and human habitations, and they are bunched up together without
any pretence to order or regularity; yet the light-hearted, decently-clad people, whose songs
come floating from the harvest-fields, live contentedly in this and other equally wretched
villages round about.  Mudura Ghana provides me with a repast of bread and yaort, and endeavors
to make my brief halt comfortable.  While I am discussing these refreshments, himself and another
unwashed, unkempt old party come to high, angry words about me; but whatever it is about I
haven't the slightest idea.  Mine host seems a regular old savage when angry.  He is the happy
possessor of a pair of powerful lungs, which are ably seconded by a foghorn voice, and he howls
at the other man like an enraged bull.  The other man doesn't seem to mind it, though, and
keeps up his end of the controversy - or whatever it is - in a comparatively cool and aggravating
manner, that seems to feed Mudura Ghana's righteous wrath, until I quite expect to see that
outraged person reach down one of the swords off the wall and hack his opponent into sausage-meat.
Once I venture to inquire, as far as one can inquire by pantomime, what they are quarrelling
so violently about me for, being really inquisitive to find out They both immediately cease
hostilities to assure me that it is nothing for which I am in any way personally responsible;
and then they straightway fall to glaring savagely at each other again, and renew their vocal
warfare more vigorously, if anything, from having just drawn a peaceful breath.  Mine host
of Kachahurda can scarcely be called a very civilized or refined individual; he has neither
the gentle kindliness of Kirkoragha Vartarian, nor the dignified, gentlemanly bearing of Tifticjeeoghlou
Effendi; but he grabs a club, and roaring like the hoarse whistle of a Mississippi steamboat,
chases a crowd of villagers out of the room who venture to come in on purpose to stare rudely
at his guest; and for this charitable action alone he deserves much credit; nothing is so annoying
as to have these unwashed crowds standing gazing and commenting while one is eating.  A man
is sent with me to direct me aright where the road forks, a mile or so from the village; from
the forks it is a newly made road, in fact, unfinished; it resembles a ploughed field for looseness
and I depth; and when, in addition to this, one has to climb a gradient of twenty metres to
the hundred, a bicycle is anything but a comforting thing to possess.  The country becomes
broken and more mountainous than ever, and the road winds about fearfully.  Often a part of
the road that is but a mile away as the crow flies requires an hour's steady going to reach
it; but the mountain scenery is glorious.  Occasionally I round a point, or reach a summit,
from whence a magnificent and comprehensive view bursts upon the vision, and it really requires
an effort to tear one's self away, realizing that in all probability I shall never see it again.
At one point I seem to be overlooking a vast amphitheatre which encompasses within itself the
physical geography of a continent.  It is traversed by whole mountain-ranges of lesser degree;
it contains tracts of stony desert and fertile valley, lakes, and a river, not excepting even
the completing element of a fine forest, and encompassing it round about, like an impenetrable
palisade protecting it against invasion, are scores of grand old mountains - grim sentinels
that nothing can overcome.  The road, though still among the mountains, is now descending in
a general way from the elevated divide, down toward Enderes and the valley of the Gevmeili
Chai River; and toward evening I enter an Armenian village.

The custom from here eastward appears to be to have the threshing-floors in or near the village;
there are sometimes several different floors, and when they are winnowing the grain on windy
days the whole village becomes covered with an inch or two of chaff.  I am glad to find these
threshing-floors in the villages, because they give me an excellent opportunity to ride and
satisfy the people, thus saving me no end of worry and annoyance.

The air becomes chilly after sundown, and I am shown into a close room containing one small
air-hole, and am provided with a quilt and pillow. Later in the evening a Turkish Bey arrives
with an escort of zaptiehs and occupies the same apartment, which would seem to be a room especially
provided for the accommodation of travellers.  The moment the officer arrives, behold, there
is a hurrying to and fro of the villagers to sweep out the room, kindle a fire to brew his
coffee, and to bring him water and a vessel for his ablutions before saying his evening prayers.
Cringing senility characterizes the demeanor of these Armenian villagers toward the Turkish
officer, and their hurrying hither and thither to supply him ere they are asked looks to me
wonderfully like a "propitiating of the gods." The Bey himself seems to be a pretty good sort
of a fellow, offering me a portion of his supper, consisting of bread, olives, and onions;
which, however, I decline, having already ordered eggs and pillau of a villager.  The Bey's
company is highly acceptable, since it saves me from the annoyance of being surrounded by the
usual ragged, unwashed crowd during the evening, and secures me a refreshing sleep, undisturbed
by visions of purloined straps or moccasins.  He appears to be a very pious Mussulman; after
washing his head, hands, and feet, he kneels toward Mecca on the wet towel, and prays for nearly
twenty minutes by my timepiece; and his sighs of Allah! are wonderfully deep-fetched, coming
apparently from clear down in his stomach.  While he is thus devotionally engaged, his two
zaptiehs stand respectfully by, and divide their time between eying myself and the bicycle
with wonder and the Bey with mingled reverence and awe.  At early dawn I steal noiselessly
away, to avoid disturbing the peaceful slumbers of the Bey.  For several miles my road winds
around among the foot-hills of the range I crossed yesterday, but following a gradually widening
depression, which finally terminates in the Gevmeili Chai Valley; and directly ahead and below
me lies the considerable town of Enderes, surrounded by a broad fringe of apple-orchards, and
walnut and jujube groves.  Here I obtain a substantial breakfast of Turkish kabobs (tid-bits
of mutton, spitted on a skewer, and broiled over a charcoal fire) at a public eating khan,
after which the mudir kindly undertakes to explain to me the best route to Erzingan, giving
me the names of several villages to inquire for as a guidance.  While talking to the mudir,
Mr. Pronatti, an Italian engineer in the employ of the Sivas Vali, makes his appearance, shakes
hands, reminds me that Italy has recently volunteered assistance to England in the Soudan campaign,
and then conducts me to his quarters in another part of the town.  Mr. Pronatti can speak almost
any language but English; I speak next to nothing but English; nevertheless, we manage to converse
quite readily, for, besides proficiency in pantomimic language acquired by daily practice,
I have necessarily picked up a few scattering words of the vernacular of the several countries
traversed on the tour.  While discussing a nice ripe water-melon with this gentleman, several
respectable- looking people enter and introduce themselves through Mr. Pronatti as Osmanli
Turks, not Armenians, expecting me to regard them more favorably on that account.  Soon afterward
a party of Armenians arrive, and take labored pains to impress upon me that they are not Turks,
but Christian Armenians.  Both parties seem desirous of winning my favorable opinion. One party
thinks the surest plan is to let me know that they are Turks; the others, to let me know that
they are not Turks.  "I have told both parties to go to Gehenna," says my Italian friend. 
"These people will worry you to death with their foolishness if you make the mistake of treating
them with consideration."

Donning an Indian pith-helmet that is three sizes too large, and wellnigh conceals his features,
Mr. Pronatti orders his horse, and accompanies me some distance out, to put me on the proper
course to Erzingan.  My route from Enderes leads along a lovely fertile valley, between lofty
mountain ranges; an intricate network of irrigating ditches, fed by, mountain streams, affords
an abundance of water for wheat-fields, vineyards, and orchards; it is the best, and yet the
worst watered valley I ever saw - the best, because the irrigating ditches are so numerous;
the worst, because most of them are overflowing and converting my road into mud-holes and shallow
pools.  In the afternoon I reach somewhat higher ground, where the road becomes firmer, and
I bowl merrily along eastward, interrupted by nothing save the necessity of dismounting and
shedding my nether garments every few minutes to ford a broad, swift feeder to the lesser ditches
lower down the valley.  In this fructiferous vale my road sometimes leads through areas of
vineyards surrounded by low mud walls, where grapes can be had for the reaching, and where
the proprietor of an orchard will shake down a shower of delicious yellow pears for whatever
you like to give him, or for nothing if one wants him to.  I suppose these villagers have established
prices for their commodities when dealing with each other, but they almost invariably refuse
to charge me anything; some will absolutely refuse any payment, and my only plan of recompensing
them is to give money to the children; others accept, with as great a show of gratitude as
if I were simply giving it to them without having received an equivalent, whatever I choose
to give.

The numerous irrigating ditches have retarded my progress to an appreciable extent to-day,
so that, notwithstanding the early start and the absence of mountain-climbing, my cyclometer
registers but a gain of thirty-seven miles, when, having continued my eastward course for some
time after nightfall, and failing to reach a village, I commence looking around for somewhere
to spend the night.  The valley of the Gevmeili Chai has been left behind, and I am again traversing
a narrow, rocky pass between the hills.  Among the rocks I discover a small open cave, in which
I determine to spend the night.  The region is elevated, and the night air chilly; so I gather
together some dry weeds and rubbish and kindle a fire.  With something to cook and eat, and
a pair of blankets, I could have spent a reasonably comfortable night; but a pocketful of pears
has to suffice for supper, and when the unsubstantial fuel is burned away, my airy chamber
on the bleak mountain-side and the thin cambric tent affords little protection from the insinuating
chilliness of the night air. Variety is said to be the spice of life; no doubt it is, under
certain conditions, but I think it all depends on the conditions whether it is spicy or not
spicy.  For instance, the vicissitudes of fortune that favor me with bread and sour milk for
dinner, a few pears for supper, and a wakeful night of shivering discomfort in a cave, as the
reward of wading fifty irrigating ditches and traversing thirty miles of ditch-bedevilled donkey-trails
during the day, may look spicy, and even romantic, from a distance; but when one wakes up in
a cold shiver about 1.30A.M. and realizes that several hours of wretchedness are before him,
his waking thoughts are apt to be anything but thoughts complimentary of the spiciness of the
situation.  Inshallah! fortune will favor me with better dues to- morrow; and if not to-morrow,
then the next day, or the next.

CHAPTER XVII.

THROUGH ERZINGAN AND ERZEROUM.

For mile after mile, on the following morning, my route leads through broad areas strewn with
bowlders and masses of rock that appear to have been brought down from the adjacent mountains
by the annual spring floods, caused by the melting winter's snows; scattering wheat-fields
are observed here and there on the higher patches of ground, which look like small yellow oases
amid the desert-like area of loose rocks surrounding them. Squads of diminutive donkeys are
seen picking their weary way through the bowlders, toiling from the isolated fields to the
village threshing-floors beneath small mountains of wheat-sheaves.  Sometimes the donkeys themselves
are invisible below the general level of the bowlders, and nothing is to be seen but the head
and shoulders of a man, persuading before him several animated heaps of straw.  Small lakes
of accumulated surface-water are passed in depressions having no outlet; thickets and bulrushes
are growing around the edges, and the surfaces of some are fairly black with multitudes of
wild-ducks.  Soon I reach an Armenian village; after satisfying the popular curiosity by riding
around their threshing-floor, they bring me some excellent wheat-bread, thick, oval cakes that
are quite acceptable, compared with the wafer-like sheets of the past several days, and five
boiled eggs.  The people providing these will not accept any direct payment, no doubt thinking
my having provided them with the only real entertainment most of them ever saw, a fair equivalent
for their breakfast; but it seems too much like robbing paupers to accept anything from these
people without returning something, so I give money to the children.  These villagers seem
utterly destitute of manners, standing around and watching my efforts to eat soft-boiled eggs
with a pocket-knife with undisguised merriment.  I inquire for a spoon, but they evidently
prefer to extract amusement from watching my interesting attempts with the pocket-knife.  One
of them finally fetches a clumsy wooden ladle, three times broader than an egg, which, of course
is worse than nothing.  I now traverse a mountainous country with a remarkably clear atmosphere.
The mountains are of a light creamcolored shaly composition; wherever a living stream of water
is found, there also is a village, with clusters of trees.  From points where a comprehensive
view is obtainable the effect of these dark-green spots, scattered here and there among the
whitish hills, seen through the clear, rarefied atmosphere, is most beautiful.  It seems a
peculiar feature of everything in the East - not only the cities themselves, but even of the
landscape - to look beautiful and enchanting at a distance; but upon a closer approach all
its beauty vanishes like an illusory dream.  Spots that from a distance look, amid their barren,
sun-blistered surroundings, like lovely bits of fairyland, upon closer investigation degenerate
into wretched habitations of a ragged, poverty-stricken people, having about them a few neglected
orchards and vineyards, and a couple of dozen straggling willows and jujubes.

For many hours again to-day I am traversing mountains, mountains, nothing but mountains; following
tortuous camel-paths far up their giant slopes. Sometimes these camel-paths are splendidly
smooth, and make most excellent riding.  At one place, particularly, where they wind horizontally
around the mountain-side, hundreds of feet above a village immediately below, it is as though
the villagers were in the pit of a vast amphitheatre, and myself were wheeling around a semicircular
platform, five hundred feet above them, but in plain view of them all.  I can hear the wonder-struck
villagers calling each other's attention to the strange apparition, and can observe them swarming
upon the house-tops.  What wonderful stories the inhabitants of this particular village will
have to recount to their neighbors, of this marvellous sight, concerning which their own unaided
minds can give no explanation!

Noontide comes and goes without bringing me any dinner, when I emerge upon a small, cultivated
plateau, and descry a coterie of industrious females reaping together in a field near by, and
straightway turn my footsteps thitherward with a view of ascertaining whether they happen to
have any eatables.  No sooner do they observe me trundling toward them than they ingloriously
flee the field, thoughtlessly leaving bag and baggage to the tender mercies of a ruthless invader.
Among their effects I find some bread and a cucumber, which I forthwith confiscate, leaving
a two and a half piastre metallique piece in its stead; the affrighted women are watching me
from the safe distance of three hundred yards; when they return and discover the coin they
will wish some 'cycler would happen along and frighten them away on similar conditions every
day. Later in the afternoon I find myself wandering along the wrong trail; not a very unnatural
occurrence hereabout, for since leaving the valley of the Gevmeili Chai, it has been difficult
to distinguish the Erzingan trail from the numerous other trails intersecting the country in
every direction.  On such a journey as this one seems to acquire a certain amount of instinct
concerning roads; certain it is, that I never traverse a wrong trail any distance these days
ere, without any tangible evidence whatever, I feel instinctively that I am going astray. 
A party of camel- drivers direct me toward the lost Erzingan trail, and in an hour I am following
a tributary of the ancient Lycus River, along a valley where everything looks marvellously
green and refreshing; it is as though I have been suddenly transferred into an entirely different
country.

This innovation from barren rocks and sun-baked shale to a valley where the principal crops
seem to be alfalfa and clover, and which is flanked on the south by dense forests of pine,
encroaching downward from the mountain slopes clear on to the level greensward, is rather an
agreeable surprise; the secret of the magic change does not remain a secret long; it reveals
itself in the shape of sundry broad snow-patches still lingering on the summits of a higher
mountain range beyond.  These pine forests, the pleasant greensward, and the lingering snow-banks,
tell an oft-repeated tale; they speak eloquently of forests preserved and the winter snow-fall
thereby increased; they speak all the more eloquently because of being surrounded by barren,
parched-up hills which, under like conditions, might produce similar happy results, but which
now produce nothing.  While traversing this smiling valley I meet a man asleep on a buffalo
araba; an irrigating ditch runs parallel with the road and immediately alongside; the meek-eyed
buffaloes swerve into the ditch in deference to their awe of tho bicycle, arid upset their
drowsy driver into the water.  The mail evidently stands in need of a bath, but somehow he
doesn't seeiu to appreciate it; perhaps it happened a trifle too impromptu, as it were, to
suit his easy-going Asiatic temperament.  He returns my rude, unsympathetic smile with a prolonged
stare of bewilderment, but says nothing.

Soon I meet a boy riding on a donkey, and ask him the postaya distance to Erzingan; the youth
looks frightened half out of his. senses, but manages to retain sufficient presence of mind
to elevate one finger, by which I understand him to mean that it is one hour, or about four
miles. Accordingly I pedal perseveringly ahead, hoping to reach the city before dusk, at the
same time feeling rather surprised at finding it so near, as I haven't been expecting to reach
there before to-morrow.  Five miles beyond where I met the boy, and just after sundown, I overtake
some katir-jees en route to Erzingan with donkey-loads of grain, and ask them the same question.
From them I learn that instead of one, it is not less than twelve hours distant, also that
the trail leads over a fearfully mountainous country.  Nestling at the base of the mountains,
a short distance to the northward, is the large village of Merriserriff, and not caring to
tempt the fates into giving me another supper-less night in a cold, cheerless cave, I wend
my way thither.

Fortune throws me into the society of an Armenian whose chief anxiety seems to be, first, that
I shall thoroughly understand that he is an Armenian, and not a Mussulman; and, secondly, to
hasten me into the presence of the mudir, who is a Mussulman, and a Turkish Bey, in order that
he may bring himself into the mudir's favorable notice by personally introducing me as a rare
novelty on to his (the mudir's) threshing-floor. The official and a few friends are sipping
coffee in one corner of the threshing floor, and, although I don't much relish my position
of the Armenian's puppet-show, I give the mudir an exhibition of the bicycle's use, in the
expectation that he will invite me to remain his guest over night.

He proves uncourteous, however, not even inviting me to partake of coffee; evidently, he has
become so thoroughly accustomed to the abject servility of the Armenians about him - who would
never think of expecting reciprocating courtesies from a social superior - that he has unconsciously
come to regard everybody else, save those whom he knows as his official superiors, as tarred,
more or less, with the same feather.  In consequence of this belief I am not a little gratified
when, upon the point of leaving the threshing-floor, an occasion offers of teaching him different.

Other friends of the mudir's appear upon the scene just as I am leaving, and he beckons me
to come back and bin for the enlightenment of the new arrivals.  The Armenian's countenance
fairly beams with importance at thus being, as it were, encored, and the collected villagers
murmur their approval; but I answer the mudir's beckoned invitation by a negative wave of the
hand, signifying that I can't bother with him any further. The common herd around regard this
self-assertive reply with open-mouthed astonishment, as though quite too incredible for belief;
it seems to them an act of almost criminal discourtesy, and those immediately about me seem
almost inclined to take me back to the threshing-floor like a culprit.  But the mudir himself
is not such a blockhead but that he realizes the mistake he has made.  He is too proud to acknowledge
it, though; consequently his friends miss, perhaps, the only opportunity in their uneventful
lives of seeing a bicycle ridden.  Owing to my ignorance of the vernacular, I am compelled
to drift more or less with the tide of circumstances about me, upon entering one of these villages,
for accommodation, and make the best of whatever capricious chance provides. My Armenian "manager
" now delivers me into the hands of one of his compatriots, from whom I obtain supper and a
quilt, sleeping, from a not over extensive choice, on some straw, beneath the broad eaves of
a log granary adjoining the house.

I am for once quite mistaken in making an early, breakfastless start, for it proves to be eighteen
weary miles over a rocky mountain pass before another human habitation is reached, a region
of jagged rocks, deep gorges, and scattered pines.  Fortunately, however, I am not destined
to travel the whole eighteen miles in a breakfastless condition-not quite a breakfastless condition.
Perhaps half the distance is traversed, when, while trundling up the ascent, I meet a party
of horsemen, a turbaned old Turk, with an escort of three zaptiehs, and another traveller,
who is keeping pace with them for company and safety.  The old Turk asks me to bin bacalem,
supplementing the request by calling my attention to his turban, a gorgeously spangled affair
that would seem to indicate the wearer to be a personage of some importance; I observe, also
that the butt of his revolver is of pearl inlaid with gold, another indication of either rank
or opulence.  Having turned about and granted his request, I in turn call his attention to
the fact that mountain climbing on an empty stomach is anything but satisfactory or agreeable,
and give him a broad hint by inquiring how far it is before ekmek is obtainable.  For reply,
he orders a zaptieh to produce a wheaten cake from his saddle-bags, and the other traveller
voluntarily contributes three apples, which he ferrets out from the ample folds of his kammerbund
and off this I make a breakfast.  Toward noon, the highest elevation of the pass is reached,
and I commence the descent toward the Erzingan Valley, following for a number of miles the
course of a tributary of the western fork of the Euphrates, known among the natives in a general
sense as the "Frat;" this particular branch is locally termed the Kara Su, or black water.
The stream and my road lead down a rocky defile between towering hills of rock and slaty formation,
whose precipitous slopes vegetable nature seems to shun, and everything looks black and desolate,
as though some blighting curse had fallen upon the place.  Up this same rocky passage-way,
eight summers ago, swarmed thousands of wretched refugees from the seat of war in Eastern Armenia;
small oblong mounds of loose rocks and bowlders are frequently observed all down the ravine,
mournful reminders of one of the most heartrending phases of the Armenian campaign; green lizards
are scuttling about among the rude graves, making their habitations in the oblong mounds. 
About two o'clock I arrive at a road-side khan, where an ancient Osmanli dispenses feeds of
grain for travellers' animals, and brews coffee for the travellers themselves, besides furnishing
them with whatever he happens to possess in the way of eatables to such as are unfortunately
obliged to patronize his cuisine or go without anything; among this latter class belongs, unhappily,
my hungry self.  Upon inquiring for refreshments the khan-jee conducts me to a rear apartment
and exhibits for my inspection the contents of two jars, one containing the native idea of
butter and the other the native conception of a soft variety of cheese; what difference is
discoverable between these two kindred products is chiefly a difference in the degree of rancidity
and odoriferousuess, in which respect the cheese plainly carries off the honors; in fact these
venerable and esteemable qualities of the cheese are so remarkably developed that after one
cautious peep into its receptacle I forbear to investigate their comparative excellencies any
further; but obtaining some bread and a portion of the comparatively mild and inoffensive butter,
I proceed to make the best of circumstances. The old khan-jee proves himself a thoughtful,
considerate landlord, for as I eat he busies himself picking the most glaringly conspicuous
hairs out of my butter with the point of his dagger.  One is usually somewhat squeamish regarding
hirsute butter, but all such little refinements of civilized life as hairless butter or strained
milk have to be winked at to a greater or less extent in Asiatic travelling, especially when
depending solely on what happens to turn up from one meal to another. The narrow, lonely defile
continues for some miles eastward from the khan, and ere I emerge from it altogether I encounter
a couple of ill- starred natives, who venture upon an effort to intimidate me into yielding
up my purse.  A certain Mahmoud Ali and his band of enterprising freebooters have been terrorizing
the villagers and committing highway robberies of late around the country; but from the general
appearance of these two, as they approach, I take them to be merely villagers returning home
from Erzingan afoot.  They are armed with Circassian guardless swords and flint-lock horse-pistols;
upon meeting they address some question to me in Turkish, to which I make my customary reply
of Tarkchi binmus; one of them then demands para (money) in a manner that leaves something
of a doubt whether he means it for begging, or is ordering me to deliver. In order to the better
discover their intentions, I pretend not to understand, whereupon the spokesman reveals their
meaning plain enough by reiterating the demand in a tone meant to be intimidating, and half
unsheatns his sword in a significant manner.  Intuitively the precise situation of affairs
seems to reveal itself in a moment; they are but ordinarily inoffensive villagers returning
from Erzingan, where they have sold and squandered even the donkeys they rode to town; meeting
me alone, and, as they think in the absence of outward evidence that I am unarmed, they have
become possessed ot tue idea of retrieving their fortunes by intimidating me out of money.
Never were men more astonished and taken aback at finding me armed, and they both turn pale
and fairly shiver with fright as I produce the Smith & Wesson from its inconspicuous position
at my hip, and hold it on a level with the bold spokesman's head; they both look as if they
expected their last hour had arrived and both seem incapable either of utterance or of running
away; in fact, their embarrassment is so ridiculous that it provokes a smile and it is with
anything but a threatening or angry voice that I bid them haidy. The bold highwaymen seem only
too thankful of a chance to "haidy," and they look quite confused, and I fancy even ashamed
of themselves, as they betake themselves off up the ravine.  I am quite as thankful as themselves
at getting off without the necessity of using my revolver, for had I killed or badly wounded
one of them it would probably have caused no end of trouble or vexatious delay, especially
in case they prove to be what I take them for, instead of professional robbers; moreover, I
might not have gotten off unscathed myself, for while their ancient flint-locks were in all
probability not even loaded, being worn more for appearances by the native than anything else,
these fellows sometimes do desperate work with their ugly and ever-handy swords when cornered
up, in proof of which we have the late dastardly assault on the British Consul at Erzeroum,
of which we shall doubtless hear the particulars upon reaching that city.  Before long the
ravine terminates, and I emerge upon the broad and smiling Erzingan Valley; at the lower extremity
of the ravine the stream has cut its channel through an immense depth of conglomerate formation,
a hundred feet of bowlders and pebbles cemented together by integrant particles which appear
to have been washed down from the mountains-probably during the subsidence of the deluge, for
even if that great catastrophe were a comparatively local occurrence, instead of a universal
flood, as some profess to believe, we are now gradually creeping up toward Ararat, so that
this particular region was undoubtedly submerged.  What appear to be petrified chunks of wood
are interspersed through the mass.  There is nothing new under the sun, they say; peradventure
they may be sticks of cooking-stove wood indignantly cast out of the kitchen window of the
ark by Mrs. Noah, because the absent-minded patriarch habitually persisted in cutting them
three inches too long for the stove; who knows.  I now wheel along a smooth, level road leading
through several orchard-environed villages; general cultivation and an atmosphere of peace
and plenty seems to pervade the valley, which, with its scattering villages amid the foliage
of their orchards, looks most charming upon emerging from the gloomy environments of the rock-ribbed
and verdureless ravine; a fitting background is presented on the south by a mountain-chain
of considerable elevation, upon the highest peaks of which still linger tardy patches of snow.

Since the occupation of Ears by the Russians, the military mantle of that important fortress
has fallen upon Erzeroum and Erzingan; the booming of cannon fired in honor of the Sultan's
birthday is awakening the echoes of the rock-ribbed mountains as I wheel eastward down the
valley, and within about three miles of the city I pass the headquarters of the garrison. 
Long rows of hundreds of white field-tents are ranged about the position on the level greensward;
the place presents an animated scene, with the soldiers, some in the ordinary blue, trimmed
with red, others in cool, white uniforms especially provided for the summer, but which they
are not unlikely to be found also wearing in winter, owing to the ruinous state of the Ottoman
exchequer, and one and all wearing the picturesque but uncomfortable fez; cannons are booming,
drums beating, and bugles playing.  From the military headquarters to the city is a splendid
broad macadam, converted into a magnificent avenue by rows of trees; it is a general holiday
with the military, and the avenue is alive with officers and soldiers going and returning between
Erzingan and the camp.  The astonishment of the valiant warriors of Islam as I wheel briskly
down the thronged avenue can be better imagined than described; the soldiers whom I pass immediately
commence yelling at their comrades ahead to call their attention, while epauletted officers
forget for the moment their military dignity and reserve as they turn their affrighted chargers
around and gaze after me, stupefied with astonishment; perhaps they are wondering whether I
am not some supernatural being connected in some way with the celebration of the Sultan's birthday
- a winged messenger, perhaps, from the Prophet.  Upon reaching the city I repair at once to
the large customhouse caravanserai and engage a room for the night.  The proprietor of the
rooms seems a sensible fellow, with nothing of the inordinate inquisitiveness of the average
native about him, and instead of throwing the weight of his influence and his persuasive powers
on the side of the importuning crowd, he authoritatively bids them "haidy!" locks the bicycle
in my room, and gives me the key.  The Erzingan caravanserai - and all these caravanserais
are essentially similar - is a square court-yard surrounded by the four sides of a two-storied
brick building; the ground- floor is occupied by the offices of the importers of foreign goods
and the customhouse authorities; the upper floor is divided into small rooms for the accommodation
of travellers and caravan men arriving with goods from Trebizond.  Sallying forth in search
of supper, I am taken in tow by a couple of Armenians, who volunteer the welcome information
that there is an "Americanish hakim" in the city; this intelligence is an agreeable surprise,
for Erzeroum is the nearest place in which I have been expecting to find an English-speaking
person.  While searching about for the hakim, we pass near the zaptieh headquarters; the officers
are enjoying their nargileh in the cool evening air outside the building, and seeing an Englishman,
beckon us over.  They desire to examine my teskeri, the first occasion on which it has been
officially demanded since landing at Ismidt, although I have voluntarily produced it on previous
occasions, and at Sivas requested the Vali to attach his seal and signature; this is owing
to the proximity of Erzingan to the Russian frontier, and the suspicions that any stranger
may be a, subject of the Czar, visiting the military centres for sinister reasons.  They send
an officer with me to hunt up the resident pasha; that worthy and enlightened personage is
found busily engaged in playing a game of chess with a military officer, and barely takes the
trouble to glance at the proffered passport: "It is vised by the Sivas Vali," he says, and
lackadaisically waves us adieu.  Upon returning to the zaptieh station, a quiet, unassuming
American comes forward and introduces himself as Dr. Van Nordan, a physician formerly connected
with the Persian mission.  The doctor is a spare-built and not over-robust man, and would perhaps
be considered by most people as a trifle eccentric; instead of being connected with any missionary
organization, he nowadays wanders hither and thither, acquiring knowledge and seeking whom
he can persuade from the error of their ways, meanwhile supporting himself by the practice
of his profession.  Among other interesting things spoken of, he tells me something of his
recent journey to Khiva (the doctor pronounces it "Heevah"); he was surprised, he says, at
finding the Khivans a mild-mannered and harmless sort of people, among whom the carrying of
weapons is as much the exception as it is the rule in Asiatic Turkey.  Doubtless the fact of
Khiva being under the Russian Government has something to do with the latter otherwise unaccountable
fact.  After supper we sit down on a newly arrived bale of Manchester calico in the caravanserai
court, cross one knee and whittle chips like Michigan grangers at a cross-roads post-office,
and spend two hours conversing on different topics.  The good doctor's mind wanders as naturally
into serious channels as water gravitates to its level; when I inquire if he has heard anything
of the whereabout of Mahmoud Ali and his gang lately, the pious doctor replies chiefly by hinting
what a glorious thing it is to feel prepared to yield up the ghost at any moment; and when
I recount something of my experiences on the journey, instead of giving me credit for pluck,
like other people, he merely inquires if I don't recognize the protecting hand of Providence;
native modesty prevents me telling the doctor of my valuable missionary work at Sivas. After
the doctor's departure I wander forth into the bazaar to see what it looks like after dark;
many of the stalls are closed for the day, the principal places remaining open being kahvay-khans
and Armenian wine-shops, and before these petroleum lamps are kept burning; the remainder of
the bazaar is in darkness.  I have not strolled about many minutes before I am corralled as
usual by Armenians; they straightway send off for a youthful compatriot of theirs who has been
to the missionary's school at Kaizareah and can speak a smattering of English.  After the usual
programme of questions, they suggest: "Being an Englishman, you are of course a Christian,"
by which they mean that I am not a Mussulman. "Certainly," I reply; whereupon they lug me into
one of their wine-shops and tender me a glass of raki (a corruption of "arrack" - raw, fiery
spirits of the kind known among the English soldiers in India by the suggestive pseudonym of
"fixed bayonets").  Smelling the raki, I make a wry face and shove it away; thev look surprised
and order the waiter to bring cognac; to save the waiter the trouble, I make another wry face,
indicative of disapproval, and suggest that he bring vishner-su. "Vishner-su" two or three
of them sing out in a chorus of blank amazement; "Ingilis.  Christian? vishner-su." they exclaim,
as though such a preposterous and unaccountable thing as a Christian partaking of a non- intoxicating
beverage like vishner-su is altogether beyond their comprehension.  The youth who has been
to the Kaizareah school then explains to the others that the American missionaries never indulge
in intoxicating beverages; this seems to clear away the clouds of their mystification to some
extent, and they order vishner-su, eying me critically, however, as I taste it, as though expecting
to observe me make yet another wry countenance and acknowledge that in refusing the fiery,
throat-blistering raki I had made a mistake.

Nothing in the way of bedding or furniture is provided in the caravanserai rooms, but the proprietor
gets me plenty of quilts, and I pass a reasonably comfortable night.  In the morning I obtain
breakfast and manage to escape from town without attracting a crowd of more than a couple of
hundred people; a remarkable occurrence in its way, since Erzingan contains a population of
about twenty thousand.  The road eastward from Erzingan is level, but heavy with dust, leading
through a low portion of the valley that earlier in the season is swampy, and gives the city
an unenviable reputation for malarial fevers.  To prevent the travellers drinking the unwholesome
water in this part of the valley, some benevolent Mussulman or public-spirited pasha has erected
at intervals, by the road side, compact mud huts, and placed there in huge earthenware vessels,
holding perhaps fifty gallons each; these are kept supplied with pure spring-water and provided
with a wooden drinking-scoop.  Fourteen miles from Erzingan, at the entrance to a ravine whence
flows the boisterous stream that supplies a goodly proportion of the irrigating water for the
valley, is situated a military outpost station.  My road runs within two hundred yards of the
building, and the officers, seeing me evidently intending to pass without stopping, motion
for me to halt.  I know well enough they want to examine my passport, and also to satisfy their
curiosity concerning the bicycle, but determine upon spurting ahead and escaping their bother
altogether.  This movement at once arouses the official suspicion as to my being in the country
without proper authority, and causes them to attach some mysterious significance to my strange
vehicle, and several soldiers forthwith receive racing orders to intercept me.  Unfortunately,
my spurting receives a prompt check at the stream, which is not bridged, and here the doughty
warriors intercept my progress, taking me into custody with broad grins of satisfaction, as
though pretty certain of having made an important capture.  Since there is no escaping, I conclude
to have a little quiet amusement out of the affair, anyway, so I refuse point-blank to accompany
my captors to their officer, knowing full well that any show of reluctance will have the very
natural effect of arousing their suspicions still further.  The bland and childlike soldiers
of the Crescent receive this show of obstinacy quite complacently, their swarthy countenances
wreathed in knowing smiles; but they make no attempt at compulsion, satisfying themselves with
addressing me deferentially as "Effendi," and trying to coax me to accompany them.  Seeing
that there is some difficulty about bringing me, the two officers come down, and I at once
affect righteous indignation of a mild order, and desire to know what they mean by arresting
my progress.  They demand my tesskeri in a manner that plainly shows their doubts of my having
one.  The teskeri is produced.  One of the officers then whispers something to the other, and
they both glance knowingly mysterious at the bicycle, apologize for having detained me, and
want to shake hands.  Having read the passport, and satisfied themselves of my nationality,
they attach some deep mysterious significance to my journey in this incomprehensible manner
up in this particular quarter; but they no longer wish to offer any impediment to my progress,
but rather to render me assistance.  Poor fellows! how suspicious they are of their great overgrown
neighbor to the north.  What good-humored fellows these Turkish soldiers are! what simple-hearted,
overgrown children.  What a pity that they are the victims of a criminally incompetent government
that neither pays, feeds, nor clothes them a quarter as well as they deserve.  In the fearful
winters of Erzeroum, they have been known to have no clothing to wear but the linen suits provided
for the hot weather.  Their pay, insignificant though it be, is as uncertain as gambling; but
they never raise a murmur.  Being by nature and religion fatalists, they cheerfully accept
these undeserved hardships as the will of Allah.  To-day is the hottest I have experienced
in Asia Minor, and soon after leaving the outpost I once more encounter the everlasting mountains,
following now the Trebizond and Erzingan caravan trail.  Once again I get benighted in the
mountains, and push ahead for some time after dark.  I am beginning to think of camping out
supperless again when I hear the creaking of a buffalo araba some distance ahead.  Soon I overtake
it, and, following it for half a mile off the trail, I find myself before an enclosure of several
acres, surrounded by a high stone wall with quite imposing gateways.  It is the walled village
of Housseubegkhan, one of those places built especially for the accommodation of the Trebizond
caravans in the winter.  I am conducted into a large apartment, which appears to be set apart
for the hospitable accommodation of travellers.  The apartment is found already occupied by
three travellers, who, from their outward appearance, might well be taken for cutthroats of
the worst description; and the villagers swarming in, I am soon surrounded by the usual ragged,
flea-bitten congregation.  There are various arms and warlike accoutrements hanging on the
wall, enough of one kind or other to arm a small company.  They all belong to the three travellers,
however; my modest little revolver seems really nothing compared with the warlike display of
swords, daggers, pistols and guns hanging around; the place looks like a small armory.  The
first question is-as is usual of late - "Russ or Ingilis." Some of the younger and less experienced
men essay to doubt my word, and, on their own supposition that I am a Russian, begin to take
unwarrantable liberties with my person; one of them steals up behind and commences playing
a tattoo on my helmet with two sticks of wood, by way of bravado, and showing his contempt
for a subject of the Czar.  Turning round, I take one of the sticks away and chastise him with
it until he howls for Allah to protect him, and then, without attempting any sort of explanation
to the others, resume my seat; one of the travellers then solemnly places his forefingers together
and announces himself as kardash (my brother), at the same time pointing significantly to his
choice assortment of ancient weapons.  I shake hands, with him and remind him that I am somewhat
hungry; whereupon he orders a villager to forthwith contribute six eggs, another butter to
fry them in, and a third bread; a tezek fire is already burning, and with his own hands he
fries the eggs, and makes my ragged audience stand at a respectful distance while I eat; if
I were to ask him, he would probably clear the room of them instanter.  About ten o'clock my
impromptu friend and his companion order their horses, and buckle their arms and accoutrements
about them to depart; my "brother" stands before me and loads up his flintlock rifle; it is
a fearful and wonderful process; it takes him at least two minutes; he does not seem to know
on which particular part of his wonderful paraphernalia to find the slugs, the powder, or the
patching, and he finishes by tearing a piece of rag off a by-standing villager to place over
the powder in the pan.  While he is doing all this, and especially when ramming home the bullet,
he looks at me as though expecting me to come and pat him approvingly on the shoulder.  When
they are gone, the third traveller, who is going to remain over night, edges up beside me,
and pointing to his own imposing armory, likewise announces himself as my brother; thus do
I unexpectedly acquire two brothers within the brief space of an evening.  The villagers scatter
to their respective quarters; quilts are provided for me, and a ghostly light is maintained
by means of a cup of grease and a twisted rag.  In one corner of the room is a paunchy youngster
of ten or twelve summers, whom I noticed during the evening as being without a single garment
to cover his nakedness; he has partly inserted himself into a largo, coarse, nose-bag, and
lies curled up in that ridiculous position, probably imagining himself in quite comfortable
quarters.  "Oh, wretched youth." I mentally exclaim, "what will you do when that nose-bag has
petered out?" and soon afterward I fall asleep, in happy consciousness of perfect security
beneath the protecting shadow of brother number two and his formidable armament of ancient
weapons.  Ten miles of good ridable road from Houssenbegkhan, and I again descend into the
valley of the west fork of the Euphrates, crossing the river on an ancient stone bridge; I
left Houssenbegkhan without breakfasting, preferring to make my customary early start and trust
to luck.  I am beginning to doubt the propriety of having done so, and find myself casting
involuntary glances toward a Koordish camp that is visible some miles to the north of my route,
when, upon rounding a mountain-spur jutting out into the valley, I descry the minaret of Mamakhatoun
in the distance ahead.  A minaret hereabout is a sure indication of a town of sufficient importance
to support a public eating-khan, where, if not a very elegant, at least a substantial meal
is to be obtained.  I obtain an acceptable breakfast of kabobs and boiled sheeps'- trotters;
killing two birds with one stone by satisfying my own appetite and at the same time giving
a first-class entertainment to a khan-full of wondering-eyed people, by eating with the khan-jee's
carving-knife and fork in preference to my fingers.  Here, as at Houssenbeg-khan, there is
a splendid, large caravanserai; here it is built chiefly of hewn stone, and almost massive
enough for a fortress; this is a mountainous, elevated region, where the winters are stormy
and severe, and these commodious and substantial retreats are absolutely necessary for the
safety of Erzingan and Trebizond caravans during the winter.  The country now continues hilly
rather than mountainous The road is generally too heavy with sand and dust, churned up by the
Erzingan mule-caravans, to admit of riding wherever the grade is unfavorable; but much good
wheeling surface is encountered on long, gentle declivities and comparatively level stretches.

During the forenoon I meet a company of three splendidly armed and mounted Circassians; they
remain speechless with astonishment until I have passed beyond their hearing; they then conclude
among themselves that I am something needing investigation; they come galloping after me, and
having caught up, their spokesman gravely delivers himself of the solitary monosyllable, "Russ?"
"Ingilis," I reply, and they resume the even tenor of their way without questioning me further.
Later in the day the hilly country develops into a mountainous region, where the trail intersects
numerous deep ravines whose sides are all but perpendicular.  Between the ravines the riding
is ofttimes quite excellent, the composition being soft shale, that packs down hard and smooth
beneath the animals' feet. Deliciously cool streams flow at the bottom of these ravines.  At
one crossing I find an old man washing his feet, and mournfully surveying sundry holes in the
bottom of his sandals; the day is hot, and I likewise halt a few minutes to cool my pedal extremities
in the crystal water. With that childlike simplicity I have so often mentioned, and which is
nowhere encountered as in the Asiatic Turk, the old fellow blandly asks me to exchange my comparatively
sound moccasins for his worn-out sandals, at the same time ruefully pointing out the dilapidated
condition of the latter, and looking as dejected as though it were the only pair of sandals
in the world.

This afternoon I am passing along the same road where Mahmoud Ali's gang robbed a large party
of Armenian harvesters who had been south to help harvest the wheat, and were returning home
in a body with the wages earned during the summer.  This happened but a few days before, and
notwithstanding the well-known saying that lightning never strikes twice in the same place,
one is scarcely so unimpressionable as not to find himself involuntarily scanning his surroundings,
half expecting to be attacked.  Nothing startling turns up, however, and at five o'clock I
come to a village which is enveloped in clouds of wheat chaff; being a breezy evening, winnowing
is going briskly forward On several threshing-floors. After duly binning, I am taken under
the protecting wing of a prominent villager, who is walking about with his hand in a sling,
the reason whereof is a crushed finger; he is a sensible, intelligent fellow, and accepts my
reply that I am not a crushed-finger hakim with all reasonableness; he provides a substantial
supper of bread and yaort, and then installs me in a small, windowless, unventilated apartment
adjoining the buffalo- stall, provides me with quilts, lights a primitive grease-lamp, and
retires.  During the evening the entire female population visit my dimly- lighted quarters,
to satisfy their feminine curiosity by taking a timid peep at their neighbor's strange guest
and his wonderful araba.  They imagine I am asleep and come on tiptoe part way across the room,
craning their necks to obtain a view in the semi-darkness.

An hour's journey from this village brings me yet again into the West Euphrates Valley.  Just
where I enter the valley the river spreads itself over a wide stony bed, coursing along in
the form of several comparatively small streams.  There is, of course, no bridge here, and
in the chilly, almost frosty, morning I have to disrobe and carry clothes and bicycle across
the several channels.  Once across, I find myself on the great Trebizond and Persian caravan
route, and in a few minutes am partaking of breakfast at a village thirty-five miles from Erzeroum,
where I learn with no little satisfaction that my course follows along the Euphrates Valley,
with an artificial wagon-road, the whole distance to the city. Not far from the village the
Euphrates is recrossed on a new stone bridge. Just beyond the bridge is the camp of a road-engineer's
party, who are putting the finishing touches to the bridge.  A person issues from one of the
tents as I approach and begins chattering away at me in French. The face and voice indicates
a female, but the costume consists of jack- boots, tight-fitting broadcloth pantaloons, an
ordinary pilot-jacket, and a fez.  Notwithstanding the masculine apparel, however, it turns
out not only to be a woman, but a Parisienne, the better half of the Erzeroum road engineer,
a Frenchman, who now appears upon the scene.  They are both astonished and delighted at seeing
a "velocipede," a reminder of their own far-off France, on the Persian caravan trail, and they
urge me to remain and partake of coffee.

I now encounter the first really great camel caravans, en route to Persia with tea and sugar
and general European merchandise; they are all camped for the day alongside the road, and the
camels scattered about the neighboring hills in search of giant thistles and other outlandish
vegetation, for which the patient ship of the desert entertains a partiality.  Camel caravans
travel entirely at night during the summer. Contrary to what, I think, is a common belief in
the Occident, they can endure any amount of cold weather, but are comparatively distressed
by the heat; still, this may not characterize all breeds of camels any more than the different
breeds of other domesticated animals.  During the summer, when the camels are required to find
their own sustenance along the road, a large caravan travels but a wretched eight miles a day,
the remainder of the time being occupied in filling his capacious thistle and camel-thorn receptacle;
this comes of the scarcity of good grazing along the route, compared with the number of camels,
and the consequent necessity of wandering far and wide in search of pasturage, rather than
because of the camel's absorptive capacity, for he is a comparatively abstemious animal.  In
the winter they are fed on balls of barley flour, called nawalla; on this they keep fat and
strong, and travel three times the distance.  The average load of a full-grown camel is about
seven hundred pounds.

Before reaching Erzeroum I have a narrow escape from what might have proved a serious accident.
I meet a buffalo araba carrying a long projecting stick of timber; the sleepy buffaloes pay
no heed to the bicycle until I arrive opposite their heads, when they - give a sudden lurch
side wise, swinging the stick of timber across my path; fortunately the road happens to be
of good-width, and by a very quick swerve I avoid a collision, but the tail end of the timber
just brushes the rear wheel as I wheel past.  Soon after noon I roll into Erzeroum, or rather,
up to the Trebizond gate, and dis-mount.  Erzeroum is a fortified city of considerable importance,
both from a commercial and a military point of view; it is surrounded by earthwork fortifications,
from the parapets of which large siege guns frown forth upon the surrounding country, and forts
are erected in several commanding positions round about, like watch-dogs stationed outside
to guard the city.  Patches of snow linger on the Palantokan Moiintains, a few miles to the
south; the Deve Boyuu Hills, a spur of the greater Palantokans, look down on the city from
the east; the broad valley of the West Euphrates stretches away westward and northward, terminating
at the north in another mountain range.

Repairing to the English consulate, I am gratified at finding several letters awaiting me,
and furthermore by the cordial hospitality extended by Yusuph Effendi, an Assyrian gentleman,
the charg'e d'affaires of the consulate for the time being, Colonel E--, the consul, having
left recently for Trebizond and England, in consequence of numerous sword-wounds received at
the hands of a desperado who invaded the consulate for plunder at midnight.  The Colonel was
a general favorite in Erzeroum, and is being tenderly carried (Thursday, September 3, 1885)
to Trebizond on a stretcher by relays of willing natives, no less than forty accompanying him
on the road.  Yusuph Effendi tells me the story of the whole lamentable affair, pausing at
intervals to heap imprecations on the head of the malefactor, and to bestow eulogies on the
wounded consul's character.

It seems that the door-keeper of the consulate, a native of a neighboring Armenian village,
was awakened at midnight by an acquaintance from the same village, who begged to be allowed
to share his quarters till morning. No sooner had the servant admitted him to his room than
he attacked him with his sword, intending-as it afterward leaked out-to murder the whole family,
rob the house, and escape.  The servant's cries for assistance awakened Colonel E--, who came
to his rescue without taking the trouble to provide himself with a weapon.  The man, infuriated
at the detection and the prospect of being captured and brought to justice, turned savagely
on the consul, inflicting several severe wounds on the head, hands, and face.  The consul closed
with him and threw him down, and called for his wife to bring his revolver.  The wretch now
begged so piteously for his life, and made such specious promises, that the consul magnanimously
let him up, neglecting-doubtless owing to his own dazed condition from the scalp wounds-to
disarm him.  Immediately he found himself released he commenced the attack again, cutting and
slashing like a demon, knocking the revolver from the consul's already badly wounded hand while
he yet hesitated to pull the trigger and take his treacherous assailant's life. The revolver
went off as it struck the floor and wounded the consul himself in the leg-broke it.  The servant
now rallied sufficiently to come to his assistance, and together they succeeded in disarming
the robber, who, however, escaped and bolted up-stairs, followed by the servant with the sword.
The consul's wife, with praiseworthy presence of mind, now appeared with a second revolver,
which her husband grasped in his left hand, the right being almost hacked to pieces.  Dazed
and faint with the loss of blood, and, moreover, blinded by the blood flowing from the scalp-wounds,
it was only by sheer strength of will that he could keep from falling.  At this juncture the
servant unfortunately appeared on the stairs, returning from an unsuccessful pursuit of the
robber.  Mistaking the servant with the sword in his hand for the desperado returning to the
attack, and realizing his own helpless condition, the consul fired two shots at him, wounding
him with both shots.  The would-be murderer is now (September 3,1885), captured and in durance
vile; the servant lies here in a critical condition, and the consul and his sorrowing family
are en route to England.

Having determined upon resting here until Monday, I spend a good part of Friday looking about
the city.  The population is a mixture of Turks, Armenians, Russians, Persians, and Jews. 
Here.  I first make the acquaintance of a Persian tchai-khan (tea-drinking shop).  With the
exception of the difference in the beverages, there is little difference between a tchai- khan
and a Icahvay-lchan, although in the case of a swell establishment, the tchai-khan blossoms
forth quite gaudily with scores of colored lamps. The tea is served scalding hot in tiny glasses,
which are first half-filled with loaf-sugar.  If the proprietor is desirous of honoring or
pleasing a new or distinguished customer, he drops in lumps of sugar until it protrudes above
the glass.  The tea is made in a samovar-a brass vessel, holding perhaps a gallon of water,
with a hollow receptacle in the centre for a charcoal fire.  Strong tea is made in an ordinary
queen's-ware teapot that fits into the hollow; a small portion of this is poured into the glass,
which is then filled up with hot water from a tap in the samovar.

There is a regular Persian quarter in Erzeroum, and I am not suffered to stroll through it
without being initiated into the fundamental difference between the character of the Persians
and the Turks.  When an Osmanli is desirous of seeing me ride the bicycle, he goes honestly
and straightforwardly to work at coaxing and worrying; except in very rare instances they have
seemed incapable of resorting to deceit or sharp practice to gain their object.  Not so childlike
and honest, however, are our new acquaintances, the Persians.  Several merchants gather round
me, and pretty soon they cunningly begin asking me how much I will sell the bicycle for.  "
Fifty liras," I reply, seeing the deep, deep scheme hidden beneath the superficial fairness
of their observations, and thinking this will quash all further commercial negotiations.  But
the wily Persians are not so easily disposed of as this.  "Bring it round and let us see how
it is ridden," they say, " and if we like it we will purchase it for fifty liras, and perhaps
make you a present besides." A Persian would rather try to gain an end by deceit than by honest
and above-board methods, even if the former were more trouble.  Lying, cheating, and deception
is the universal rule among them; honesty and straightforwardness are unknown virtues.  Anyone
whom they detect telling the truth or acting honestly they consider a simpleton unfit to transact
business.  The missionaries and their families are at present tenting out, five miles south
of the city, in a romantic little ravine called Kirk-dagheman, or the place of the forty mills;
and on Saturday morning I receive a pressing invitation to become their guest during the remainder
of my stay.  The Erzeroum mission is represented by Mr. Chambers, his brother-now absent on
a tour-their respective families, and Miss Powers.  Yusuph Effendi accompanies us out to the
camp on a spendid Arab steed, that curvets gracefully the whole way.  Myself and the-other
missionary people (bicycle work at Sivas, and again at Erzeroum) ride more sober and deco-ous
animals.  Kirkdagheman is found to be near the entrance to a pass over the Palantokan Mountains.
Half a dozen small tents are pitched beneath the only grove of trees for many a mile around.
A dancing stream of crystal water furnishes the camp with an abundance of that necessary, as
also a lavish supply of such music as babbling brooks coursing madly over pebbly beds are wont
to furnish.  To this particular section of the little stream legendary lore has attached a
story which gives the locality its name, Kirkdagheman.

" Once upon a time, a worthy widow found herself the happy possessor of no less than forty
small grist-mills strung along this stream.  Soon after her husband's death, the lady's amiable
qualities-and not unlikely her forty mills into the bargain-attracted the admiration of a certain
wealthy owner of flocks in the neighborhood, and he sought her hand in marriage. 'No,' said
the lady, who, being a widow, had perhaps acquired wisdom; ' no; I have forty sons, each one
faithfully laboring and contributing cheerfully toward my support; therefore, I have no use
for a husband.' ' I will kill your forty sons, and compel you to become my wife,' replied the
suitor, in a huff at being rejected.  And he went and sheared all his sheep, and, with the
multitudinous fleeces, dammed up the stream, caused the water to flow into other channels,
and thereby rendered the widow's forty mills useless and unproductive.  With nothing but ruination
before her, and seeing no alternative, the widow's heart finally softened, and she suffered
herself to be wooed and won.  The fleeces were removed, the stream returned to its proper channel,
and the merry whir of the forty mills henceforth mingled harmoniously with tlie bleating of
the sheep." Two days are spent at the quiet missionary camp, and thoroughly enjoyed. It seems
like an oasis of home life in the surrounding desert of uncongenial social conditions.  I eagerly
devour the contents of several American newspapers, and embrace the opportunities of the occasion,
even to the extent of nursing the babies (missionaries seem rare folks for babies), of which
there are three in camp.  The altitude of Erzeroum is between six thousand and seven thousand
feet; the September nights are delightfully cool, and there are no blood-thirsty mosquitoes.
I am assigned a sleeping- tent close alongside a small waterfall, whose splashing music is
a soporific that holds me in the bondage of beneficial repose until breakfast is announced
both mornings; and on Monday morning I feel as though the hunger, the irregular sleep, and
the rough-and-tumble dues generally of the past four weeks were but a troubled dream.  Again
the bicycle contributes its curiosity-quickening and question-exciting powers for the benefit
of the sluggish-minded pupils of the mission school.  The Persian consul and his sons come
to see me ride ; he is highly interested upon learning that I am travelling on the wheel to
the Persian capital, and he vises my passport and gives me a letter of introduction to the
Pasha Khan of Ovahjik, the first village I shall come to beyond the frontier.

It is nearly 3 P.M., September 7th, when I bid farewell to everybody, and wheel out through
the Persian Gate, accompanied by Mr. Chambers on horseback, who rides part way to the Deve
Boyun (camel's neck) Pass.  On the way out he tells me that he has been intending taking a
journey through the Caucasus this autumn, but the difficulties of obtaining permission, on
account of his being a clergyman, are so great-a special permission having to be obtained from
St.  Petersburg-that he has about relinquished the idea for the present season.  Deve Boyun
Pass leads over a comparatively low range of hills.  It was here where the Turkish army, in
November, 1877, made their last gallant attempt to stem the tide of disaster that had, by the
fortunes of war and the incompeteucy of their commanders, set in irresistibly against them,
before taking refuge inside the walls of the city.  An hour after parting from Mr. Chambers
I am wheeling briskly down the same road on the eastern slope of the pass where Mukhtar Pasha's
ill-fated column was drawn into the fatal ambuscade that suddenly turned the fortunes of the
day against them.  While rapidly gliding down the gentle gradient, I fancy I can see the Cossack
regiments, advancing toward the Turkish position, the unwary and over-confident Osmanlis leaping
from their intrenchments to advance along the road and drive them back; now I come to the Nabi
Tchai ravines, where the concealed masses of Eussian infantry suddenly sprang up and cut off
their retreat; I fancy I can see- chug! wh-u-u-p! thud!-stars, and see them pretty distinctly,
too, for while gazing curiously about, locating the Russian ambushment, the bicycle strikes
a sand-hole, and I am favored with the worst header I have experienced for many a day.  I am-or
rather was, a minute ago-bowling along quite briskly; the header treats me to a fearful shaking
up; I arn sore all over the next morning, and present a sort of a stiff-necked, woe-begone
appearance for the next four days.  A bent handle-bar and a slightly twisted rear wheel fork
likewise forcibly remind me that, while I am beyond the reach of repair shops, it will be Solomon-like
wisdom on my part to henceforth survey battle-fields with a larger margin of regard for things
more immediately interesting.  From the pass, my road descends into the broad and cultivated
valley of the Passin Su; the road is mostly ridable, though heavy with dust.  Part way to Hassen
Kaleh I am compelled to use considerable tact to avoid trouble with a gang of riotous kalir-jees
whom I overtake; as I attempt to wheel past, one of them wantonly essays to thrust his stick
into the wheel; as I spring from the saddle for sheer self-protection, they think I have dismounted
to attack him, and his comrades rush forward to his protection, brandishing their sticks and
swords in a menacing manner.  Seeing himself reinforced, as it were, the bold aggressor raises
his stick as though to strike me, and peremptorily orders me to bin and haidi.  Very naturally
I refuse to remount the bicycle while surrounded by this evidently mischievous crew; there
are about twenty of them, and it requires much self-control to prevent a conflict, in which,
I am persuaded, somebody would have been hurt; however, I finally manage to escape their undesirable
company and ride off amid a fusillade of stones.  This incident reminds me of Yusuph Effendi's
warning, that even though I had come thus far without a zaptieh escort, I should require one
now, owing to the more lawless disposition of the people near the frontier.  Near dark I reach
Hassan Kaleh, a large village nestling under the shadow of its former importance as a fortified
town, and seek the accommodation of a Persian tchai-khan; it is not very elaborate or luxurious
accommodation, consisting solely of tiny glasses of sweetened tea in the public room and a
shake-down in a rough, unfurnished apartment over the stable; eatables have to be obtained
elsewhere, but it matters little so long as they are obtainable somewhere.  During the evening
a Persian troubadour and story-teller entertains the patrons of the tchai-khan by singing ribaldish
songs, twanging a tambourine-like instrument, and telling stories in a sing-song tone of voice.
In deference to the mixed nationality of his audience, the sagacious troubadour wears a Turkish
fez, a Persian coat, and a Eussian metallic-faced belt; the burden of his songs are of Erzeroum,
Erzingan, and Ispahan; the Russians, it would appear, are too few and unpopular to justify
risking the displeasure of the Turks by singing any Eussian songs.  So far as my comprehension
goes, the stories are chiefly of intrigue and love affairs among pashas, and would quickly
bring the righteous retribution of the Lord Chamberlain down about his ears, were he telling
them to an English audience.  I have no small difficulty in getting the bicycle up the narrow
and crooked stairway into my sleeping apartment; there is no fastening of any kind on the door,
and the proprietor seems determined upon treating every subject of the Shah in Hassan Kaleh
to a private confidential exhibition of myself and bicycle, after I have retired to bed.  It
must be near midnight, I think, when I am again awakened from my uneasy, oft-disturbed slumbers
by murmuring voices and the shuffling of feet; examining the bicycle by the feeble glimmer
of a classic lamp are a dozen meddlesome Persians.  Annoyed at their unseemly midnight intrusion,
and at being repeatedly awakened, I rise up and sing out at them rather authoratively; I have
exhibited the marifet of my Smith & Wesson during the evening, and these intruders seem really
afraid I might be going to practise on them with it.  The Persians are apparently timid mortals;
they evidently regard me as a strange being of unknown temperament, who might possibly break
loose and encompass their destruction on the slightest provocation, and the proprietor and
another equally intrepid individual hurriedly come to my couch, and pat me soothingly on the
shoulders, after which they all retire, and I am disturbed no more till morning.  The " rocky
road to Dublin " is nothing compared to the road leading eastward from Hassan Kaleh for the
first few miles, but afterward it improves into very fair wheeling.  Eleven miles down the
Passiu Su Valley brings me to the Armenian village of Kuipri Kui.  Having breakfasted before
starting I wheel on without halting, crossing the Araxes Eiver at the junction of the Passin
Su, on a very ancient stone bridge known as the Tchebankerpi, or the bridge of pastures, said
to be over a thousand years old.  Nearing Dele Baba Pass, a notorious place for robbers, I
pass through a village of sedentary Koords.  Soon after leaving the village a wild-looking
Koord, mounted on an angular sorrel, overtakes me and wants me to employ him as a guard while
going through the pass, backing up the offer of his presumably valuable services by unsheathing
a semi-rusty sword and waving it valiantly aloft.  He intimates, by tragically graphic pantomime,
that unless I traverse the pass under the protecting shadow of his ancient and rusty blade,
I will be likely to pay the penalty of my rashness by having my throat cut.  Yusuph Effendi
and the Erzeroum missionaries have thoughtfully warned me against venturing through the Dele
Baba Pass alone, advising me to wait and go through with a Persian caravan; but this Koord
looks like anything but a protector; on the contrary, I am inclined to regard him as a suspicious
character himself, interviewing me, perhaps, with ulterior ideas of a more objectionable character
than that of faithfully guarding me through the Dele Baba Pass.  Showing him the shell-extracting
mechanism of my revolver, and explaining the rapidity with which it can be fired, I give him
to understand that I feel quite capable of guarding myself, consequently have no earthly use
for his services.  A tea caravan of some two hundred camels are resting near the approach to
the pass, affording me an excellent opportunity of having company through by waiting and journeying
with them in the night; but warnings of danger have been repeated so often of late, and they
have proved themselves groundless so invariably that I should feel the taunts of self-reproach
were I to find myself hesitating to proceed on their account.  Passing over a mountain spur,
I descend into a rocky canon, with perpendicular walls of rock towering skyward like giant
battlements, inclosing a space not over fifty yards wide; through this runs my road, and alongside
it babbles the Dele Baba Su.  The canon is a wild, lonely- looking spot, and looks quite appropriate
to the reputation it bears. Professor Vambery, a recognized authority on Asiatic matters, and
whose party encountered a gang of marauders here, says the Dele Baba Pass bore the same unsavory
reputation that it bears to-day as far back as the time of Herodotus.  However, suffice it
to say, that I get through without molestation; mounted men, armed to the teeth, like almost
everybody else hereabouts, are encountered in the pass; they invariably halt and look back
after me as though endeavoring to comprehend who and what I am, but that is all.  Emerging
from the canon, I follow in a general course the tortuous windings of the Dele Baba Su through
another ravine- riven battle-field of the late war, and up toward its source in a still more
mountainous and elevated region beyond.

CHAPTER XVIII.

MOUNT ARARAT AND KOORDISTAN.

The shades of evening are beginning to settle down over the wild mountainous country round
about.  It is growing uncomfortably chilly for this early in the evening, and the prospects
look favorable for a supperless and most disagreeable night, when I descry a village perched
in an opening among the mountains a mile or thereabouts off to the right.  Repairing thither,
I find it to be a Koordish village, where the hovels are more excavations than buildings; buffaloes,
horses, goats, chickens, and human beings all find shelter under the same roof; their respective
quarters are nothing but a mere railing of rough poles, and as the question of ventilation
is never even thought of, the effect upon one's olfactory nerves upon entering is anything
but reassuring.  The filth and rags of these people is something abominable; on account of
the chilliness of the evening they have donned their heavier raiment; these have evidently
had rags patched on. top of other rags for years past until they have gradually developed into
thick-quilted garments, in the innumerable seams of which the most disgusting entomological
specimens, bred and engendered by their wretched mode of existence, live and perpetuate their
kind.  However, repulsive as the outlook most assuredly is, I have no alternative but to cast
my lot among them till morning.  I am conducted into the Sheikh's apartment, a small room partitioned
off with a pole from a stable-full of horses and buffaloes, and where darkness is made visible
by the sickly glimmer of a grease lamp.  The Sheikh, a thin, sallow-faced man of about forty
years, is reclining on a mattress in one corner smoking cigarettes; a dozen ill-conditioned
ragamuffins are squatting about in various attitudes, while the rag, tag, and bobtail of the
population crowd into the buffalo-stable and survey me and the bicycle from outside the partition-pole.

A circular wooden tray containing an abundance of bread, a bowl of yaort, and a small quantity
of peculiar stringy cheese that resembles chunks of dried codfish, warped and twisted in the
drying, is brought in and placed in the middle of the floor.  Everybody in the room at once
gather round it and begin eating with as little formality as so many wild animals; the Sheikh
silently motions for me to do the same.  The yaort bowl contains one solitary wooden spoon,
with which they take turns at eating mouthfuls.  One is compelled to draw the line somewhere,
even under the most uncompromising circumstances, and I naturally draw it against eating yaort
with this same wooden spoon; making small scoops with pieces of bread, I dip up yaort and eat
scoop and all together.  These particular Koords seem absolutely ignorant of anything in the
shape of mannerliness, or of consideration for each other at the table.  When the yaort has
been dipped into twice or thrice all round, the Sheikh coolly confiscates the bowl, eats part
of what is left, pours water into the remainder, stirs it up with his hand, and deliberately
drinks it all up; one or two others seize all the cheese, utterly regardless of the fact that
nothing remains for myself and their companions, who, by the by, seem to regard it as a perfectly
natural proceeding.

After supper they return to their squatting attitudes around the room, and to a resumption
of their never-ceasing occupation of scratching themselves.  The eminent economist who lamented
the wasted energy represented in the wagging of all the dogs' tails in the world, ought to
have travelled through Asia on a bicycle and have been compelled to hob-nob with the villagers;
he would undoubtedly have wept with sorrow at beholding the amount of this same wasted energy,
represented by the above-mentioned occupation of the people.  The most loathsome member of
this interesting company is a wretched old hypocrite who rolls his eyes about and heaves a
deep-drawn sigh of Allah! every few minutes, and then looks furtively at myself and the Sheikh
to observe its effects; his sole garment is a round-about mantle that reaches to his knees,
and which seems to have been manufactured out of the tattered remnants of other tattered remnants
tacked carelessly together without regard to shape, size, color, or previous condition of cleanliness;
his thin, scrawny legs are bare, his long black hair is matted and unkempt, his beard is stubby
and unlovely to look upon, his small black eyes twinkle in the semi-darkness like ferret's
eyes, while soap and water have to all appearances been altogether stricken from the category
of his personal requirements.  Probably it is nothing but the lively workings of my own imagination,
but this wretch appears to me to entertain a decided preference for my society, constantly
insinuating himself as near me as possible, necessitating constant watchfulness on my part
to avoid actual contact with him; eternal vigilance is in this case the price of what it is
unnecessary to expatiate upon, further than to say that self-preservation becomes, under such
conditions, preeminently the first law of Occidental nature.  Soon the sallow-faced Sheikh
suddenly bethinks himself that he is in the august presence of a hakim, and beckoning me to
his side, displays an ugly wound on his knee which has degenerated into a running sore, and
which he says was done with a sword; of course he wants me to perform a cure.  While examining
the Sheikh's knee, another old party comes forward and unbares his arm, also wounded with a
sword.  This not unnaturally sets me to wondering what sort of company I have gotten into,
and how they came by sword wounds in these peaceful times; but my inquisitivencss is compelled
to remain in abeyance to my limited linguistic powers.  Having nothing to give them for the
wounds, I recommend an application of warm salt water twice a day; feeling pretty certain,
however, that they will be too lazy and trifling to follow the advice.  Before dispersing to
their respective quarters, the occupants of the room range themselves in a row and go through
a religious performance lasting fully half an hour; they make almost as much noise as howling
dervishes, meanwhile exercising themselves quite violently.  Having made themselves holier
than ever by these exercises, some take their departure, others make up couches on the floor
with sheepskins and quilts.  Thin ice covers the still pools of water when I resume my toilsome
route over the mountains at daybreak, a raw wind coines whistling from the east, and until
the sun begins to warm things up a little, it is necessary to stop and buffet occasionally
to prevent benumbed hands.  Obtaining some small lumps of wheaten dough cooked crisp in hot
grease, like unsweetened doughnuts, from a horseman on the road, I push ahead toward the summit
and then down the eastern slope of the mountains; rounding an abutting hill about 9.30, the
glorious snow-crowned peak of Ararat suddenly bursts upon my vision; it is a good forty leagues
away, but even at this distance it dwarfs everything else in sight.  Although surrounded by
giant mountain chains that traverse the country at every conceivable angle, Ararat stands alone
in its solitary grandeur, a glistening white cone rearing its giant height proudly and conspicuously
above surrounding eminences; about mountains that are insignificant only in comparison with
the white-robed monarch that has been a beacon-light of sacred history since sacred history
has been in existence.

Descending now toward the Alashgird Plain, a prominent theatre of action during the war, I
encounter splendid wheeling for some miles; but once fairly down on the level, cultivated plain,
the road becomes heavy with dust.  Villages dot the broad, expansive plain in every direction;
conical stacks of tezek are observable among the houses, piled high up above the roofs, speaking
of commendable forethought for the approaching cold weather.  In one of the Armenian villages
I am not a little surprised at finding a lone German; he says he prefers an agricultural life
in this country with all its disadvantages, to the hard, grinding struggle for existence, and
the compulsory military service of the Fatherland.  "Here," he goes on to explain, "there is
no foamy lager, no money, no comfort, no amusement of any kind, but there is individual liberty,
and it is very easy making a living; therefore it is for me a better country than Deutschland."
" Everybody to their liking," I think, as I continue on across the plain; but for a European
to be living in one of these little agricultural villages comes the nearest to being buried
alive of anything I know of.  The road improves in hardness as I proceed eastward, but the
peculiar disadvantages of being a conspicuous and incomprehensible object on a populous level
plain soon becomes manifest.  Seeing the bicycle glistening in the sunlight as I ride along,
horsemen come wildly galloping from villages miles away.  Some of these wonderstricken people
endeavor to pilot me along branch trails leading to their villages, but the main caravan trail
is now too easily distinguishable for any little deceptiona of this kind to succeed.  Here,
on the Alashgird Plain, I first hear myself addressed as "Hamsherri," a term which now takes
the place of Effendi for the next five hundred miles.  Owing to the disgust engendered by my
unsavory quarters in the wretched Dele Baba village last night, I have determined upon seeking
the friendly shelter of a wheat-shock again to-night, preferring the chances of being frozen
out at midnight to the entomological possibilities of village hovels.  Accordingly, near sunset,
I repair to a village not far from the road, for the purpose of obtaining something to eat
before seeking out a rendezvous for the night.  It turns out to be the Koordish village of
Malosman, and the people are found to be so immeasurably superior in every particular to their
kinsfolk of Dele Baba that I forthwith cancel my determination and accept their proffered hospitality.
The Malosmanlis are comparatively clean and comfortable; are reasonably well-dressed, seem
well-to-do, and both men and women are, on the average, handsomer than the people of any village
I have seen for days past.  Almost all possess a conspicuously beautiful set of teeth, pleasant,
smiling countenances and good physique; they also seem to have, somehow, acquired easy, agreeable
manners.  The secret of the whole difference, I opine, is that, instead of being located among
the inhospitable soil of barren hills they are cultivating the productive soil of the Alashgird
Plain, and, being situated on the great Persian caravan trail, they find a ready market for
their grain in supplying the caravans in winter.  Their Sheikh is a handsome and good-natured
young fellow, sporting white clothes trimmed profusely with red braid; he spends the evening
in my company, examining the bicycle, revolver, telescopic pencil-case, L.A.W. badge, etc.,
and hands me his carved ivory case to select cigarettes from.  It would have required considerable
inducements to have trusted either my L.A.W. badge or the Smith & Wesson in the custody of
any of our unsavory acquaintances of last night, notwithstanding their great outward show of
piety.  There are no deep-drawn sighs of Allah, nor ostentatious praying among the Malosmanlis,
but they bear the stamp of superior trustworthiness plainly on their faces and their bearing.
There appears to be far more jocularity than religion among these prosperous villagers, a trait
that probably owes its development to their apparent security from want; it is no newly discovered
trait of human character to cease all prayers and supplications whenever the granary is overflowing
with plenty, and to commence devotional exercises again whenever the supply runs short.  This
rule would hold good among the childlike natives here, even more so than it does among our
more enlightened selves.  I sally forth into the chilly atmosphere of early morning from Maloaman,
and wheel eastward over an excellent road for some miles; an obliging native, en route to the
harvest field, turns his buffalo araba around and carts me over a bridgeless stream, but several
others have to be forded ere reaching Kirakhan, where I obtain breakfast. Here I am required
to show my teskeri to the mudir, and the zaptieh escorting me thither becomes greatly mystified
over the circumstance that I am a Frank and yet am wearing a Mussulman head-band around my
helmet (a new one I picked up on the road); this little fact appeals to him as something savoring
of an attempt to disguise myself, and he grows amusingly mysterious while whisperingly bringing
it to the mudir's notice.  The habitual serenity and complacency of the corpulent mudir's mind,
however, is not to be unduly disturbed by trifles, and the untutored zaptieh's disposition
to attach some significant meaning to it, meets with nothing from his more enlightened superior
but the silence of unconcern.  More streams have to be forded ere I finally emerge on to higher
ground; all along the Alashgird Plain, Ararat's glistening peak has been peeping over the mountain
framework of the plain like a white beacon-light showing above a dark rocky shore; but approaching
toward the eastern extremity of the plain, my road hugs the base of the intervening hills and
it temporarily disappears from view.  In this portion of the country, camels are frequently
employed in bringing the harvest from field to village threshing-floor; it is a curious sight
to see these awkwardly moving animals walking along beneath tremendous loads of straw, nothing
visible but their heads and legs.  Sometimes the meandering course of the Euphrates - now the
eastern fork, and called the Moorad-Chai - brings it near the mountains, and my road leads
over bluffs immediately above it; the historic river seems well supplied with trout hereabouts,
I can look down from the bluffs and observe speckled beauties sporting about in its pellucid
waters by the score.  Toward noon I fool away fifteen minutes trying to beguile one of them
into swallowing a grasshopper and a bent pin, but they are not the guileless creatures they
seem to be when surveyed from an elevated bluff, so they steadily refuse whatever blandishments
I offer.  An hour later I reach the village of Daslische, inhabited by a mixed population of
Turks and Persians.  At a shop kept by one of the latter I obtain some bread and ghee (clarified
butter), some tea, and a handful of wormy raisins for dessert; for these articles, besides
building a fire especially to prepare the tea, the unconscionable Persian charges the awful
sum of two piastres (ten cents); whereupon the Turks, who have been interested spectators of
the whole nefarious proceeding, commence to abuse him roundly for overcharging a stranger unacquainted
with the prices of the locality calling him the son of a burnt father, and other names that
tino-je unpleasantly in the Persian ear, as though it was a matter of pounds sterling.  Beyond
Daslische, Ararat again becomes visible; the country immediately around is a ravine- riven
plateau, covered with bowlders.  An hour after leaving Daslische, while climbing the eastern
slope of a ravine, four rough-looking footmen appear on the opposite side of the slope; they
are following after me, and shouting "Kardash!" These people with their old swords and pistols
conspicuously about them, always raise suspicions of brigands and evil characters under such
circumstances as these, so I continue on up the slope without heeding their shouting until
I observe two of them turn back; I then wait, out of curiosity, to see what they really want.
They approach with broad grins of satisfaction at having overtaken me: they have run all the
way from Daslische in order to overtake me and see the bicycle, having heard of it after I
had left.  I am now but a short distance from the Russian frontier on the north, and the first
Turkish patrol is this afternoon patrolling the road; he takes a wondering interest in my wheel,
but doesn't ask the oft-repeated question, "Russ or Ingiliz?" It is presumed that he is too
familiar with the Muscovite "phiz" to make any such question necessary.

About four o'clock I overtake a jack-booted horseman, who straightway proceeds to try and make
himself agreeable; as his flowing remarks are mostly unintelligible, to spare him from wasting
the sweetness of his eloquence on the desert air around me, I reply, "Turkchi binmus." Instead
of checking the impetuous torrent of his remarks at hearing this, he canters companionably
alongside, and chatters more persistently than ever.  "T-u-r-k-chi b-i-n-m-u-s!" I repeat,
becoming rather annoyed at his persistent garrulousness and his refusal to understand.  This
has the desired effect of reducing him to silence; but he canters doggedly behind, and, after
a space creeps up alongside again, and, pointing to a large stone building which has now become
visible at the base of a mountain on the other side of the Euphrates, timidly ventures upon
the explanation that it is the Armenian Gregorian Monastery of Sup Ogwanis (St. John).  Finding
me more favorably disposed to listen than before, he explains that he himself is an Armenian,
is acquainted with the priests of the monastery, and is going to remain there over night; he
then proposes that I accompany him thither, and do likewise.  I am, of course, only too pleased
at the prospect of experiencing something out of the common, and gladly avail myself of the
opportunity; moreover, monasteries and religious institutions in general, have somehow always
been pleasantly associated in my thoughts as inseparable accompaniments of orderliness and
cleanliness, and I smile serenely to myself at the happy prospect of snowy sheets, and scrupulously
clean cooking.

Crossing the Euphrates on a once substantial stone bridge, now in a sadly dilapidated condition,
that was doubtless built when Armenian monasteries enjoyed palmier days than the present, we
skirt the base of a compact mountain and in a few minutes alight at the monastery village.
Exit immediately all visions of cleanliness; the village is in no wise different from any other
cluster of mud hovels round about, and the rag-bedecked, flea-bitten objects that come outside
to gaze at us, if such a thing were possible, compare unfavorably even with the Dele Baba Koords.
There is apparent at once, however, a difference between the respective dispositions of the
two peoples: the Koords are inclined to be pig-headed and obtrusive, as though possessed of
their full share of the spirit of self-assertion; the Sup Ogwanis people, on the contrary,
act like beings utterly destitute of anything of the kind, cowering beneath one's look and
shunning immediate contact as though habitually overcome with a sense of their own inferiority.
The two priests come out to see the bicycle ridden; they are stout, bushy-whiskered, greasy-looking
old jokers, with small twinkling black eyes, whose expression would seem to betoken anything
rather than saintliness, and, although the Euphrates flows hard by, they are evidently united
in their enmity against soap and water, if in nothing else; in fact, judging from outward appearances,
water is about the only thing concerning which they practise abstemiousness.  The monastery
itself is a massive structure of hewn stone, surrounded by a high wall loop-holed for defence;
attached to the wall inside is a long row of small rooms or cells, the habitations of the monks
in more prosperous days; a few of them are occupied at present by the older men.; At 5.30 P.M.,
the bell tolls for evening service, and I accompany my guide into the monastery; it is a large,
empty-looking edifice of simple, massive architecture, and appears to have been built with
a secondary purpose of withstanding a siege or an assault, and as a place of refuge for the
people in troublous times; containing among other secular appliances a large brick oven for
baking bread.  During the last war, the place was actually bombarded by the Russiaus in an
effort to dislodge a body of Koords who had taken possession of the monastery, and from behind
its solid walls, harassed the Russian troops advancing toward Erzeroum. The patched up holes
made by the Russians' shots are pointed out, as also some light earthworks thrown up on the
Russian position across the river.  In these degenerate days one portion of the building is
utilized as a storehouse for grain; hundreds of pigeons are cooing and roosting on the crossbeams,
making the place their permanent abode, passing in and out of narrow openings near the roof;
and the whole interior is in a disgustingly filthy condition.  Rude fresco representations
of the different saints in the Gregorian calendar formerly adorned the walls, and bright colored
tiles embellished the approach to the altar.  Nothing is distinguishable these days but the
crumbling and half-obliterated evidences of past glories; both priests and people seem hopelessly
sunk in the quagmire of avariciousness and low cunning on the one hand, and of blind ignorance
and superstition on the other.  Clad in greasy and seedy-looking cowls, the priests go through
a few nonsensical manosuvres, consisting chiefly of an ostentatious affectation of reverence
toward an altar covered with tattered drapery, by never turning their backs toward it while
they walk about, Bible in hand, mumbling and sighing. My self-constituted guide and myself
comprise the whole congregation during the "services." Whenever the priests heave a particularly
deep- fetched sigh or fall to mumbling their prayers on the double quick, they invariably cast
a furtive glance toward me, to ascertain whether I am noticing the impenetrable depth of their
holiness.  They needn't be uneasy on that score, however; the most casual observer cannot fail
to perceive that it is really and truly impenetrable - so impenetrable, in fact, that it will
never be unearthed, not even at the day of judgment.  In about ten minutes the priests quit
mumbling, bestow a Pharisaical kiss on the tattered coverlet of their Bibles, graciously suffer
my jack-booted companion to do likewise, as also two or three ragamuffins who have come sneaking
in seemingly for that special purpose, and then retreat hastily behind a patch-work curtain;
the next minute they reappear in a cowlless condition, their countenances wearing an expression
of intense relief, as though happy at having gotten through with a disagreeable task that had
been weighing heavily on their minds all day.

We are invited to take supper with their Reverences in their cell beneath the walls, which
they occupy in common.  The repast consists of yaort and pillau, to which is added, by way
of compliment to visitors, five salt fishes about the size of sardines.  The most greasy-looking
of the divines thoughtfully helps himself to a couple of the fishes as though they were a delicacy
quite irresistible, leaving one apiece for us others.  Having created a thirst with the salty
fish, he then seizes what remains of the yaort, pours water into it, mixes it thoroughly together
with his unwashed hand, and gulps down a full quart of the swill with far greater gusto than
mannerliness.  Soon the priests commence eructating aloud, which appears to be a well-understood
signal that the limit of their respective absorptive capacities are reached, for three hungry-eyed
laymen, who have been watching our repast with seemingly begrudging countenances, now carry
the wooden tray bodily off into a corner and ravenously devour the remnants.  Everything about
the cell is abnormally filthy, and I am glad when the inevitable cigarettes are ended and we
retire to the quarters assigned us in the village.  Here my companion produces from some mysterious
corner of his clothing a pinch of tea and a few lumps of sugar.  A villager quickly kindles
a fire and cooks the tea, performing the services eagerly, in anticipation of coming in for
a modest share of what to him is an unwonted luxury.  Being rewarded with a tiny glassful of
tea and a lump of sugar, he places the sweet morsel in his mouth and sucks the tea through
it with noisy satisfaction, prolonging the presumably delightful sensation thereby produced
to fully a couple of minutes. During this brief indulgence of his palate, a score of his ragged
co- religionists stand around and regard him with mingled envy and covetousness; but for two
whole minutes he occupies his proud eminence in the lap of comparative luxury, and between
slow, lingering sucks at the tea, regards their envious attention with studied indifference.
One can scarcely conceive of a more utterly wretched people than the monastic community of
Sup Ogwanis; one would not be surprised to find them envying even the pariah curs of the country.
The wind blows raw and chilly from off the snowy slopes of Ararat next morning, and the shivering,
half-clad-wretches shuffle off toward the fields and pastures, - with blue noses and unwilling
faces, humping their backs and shrinking within themselves and wearing most lugubrious countenances;
one naturally falls to wondering what they do in the winter.  The independent villagers of
the surrounding country have a tough enough time of it, worrying through the cheerless winters
of a treeless and mountainous country; but they at least have no domestic authority to obey
but their own personal and family necessities, and they consume the days huddled together in
their unventilated hovels over a smouldering tezek fire; but these people seem but helpless
dolts under the vassalage of a couple of crafty-looking, coarse-grained priests, who regard
them with less consideration than they do the monastery buffaloes. Eleven miles over a mostly
ridable trail brings me to the large village of Dyadin.  Dyadin is marked on my map as quite
an important place, consequently I approach it with every assurance of obtaining a good breakfast.
My inquiries for refreshments are met with importunities of bin bacalem, from five hundred
of the rag-tag and bobtail of the frontier, the rowdiest and most inconsiderate mob imaginable.
In their eagerness and impatience to see me ride, and their exasperating indifference to my
own pressing wants, some of them tell me bluntly there is no bread; others, more considerate,
hurry away and bring enough bread to feed a dozen people, and one fellow contributes a couple
of onions.  Pocketing the onions and some of the bread, I mount and ride away from the madding
crowd with whatever despatch is possible, and retire into a secluded dell near the road, a
mile from town, to eat my frugal breakfast in peace and quietness.  While thus engaged, it
is with veritable savage delight that I hear a company of horsemen go furiously galloping past;
they are Dyadin people endeavoring to overtake me for the kindly purpose of worrying me out
of my senses, and to prevent me even eating a bite of bread unseasoned with their everlasting
gabble.  Although the road from Dyadin eastward leads steadily upward, they fancy that nothing
less than a wild, sweeping gallop will enable them to accomplish their fell purpose; I listen
to their clattering hoof-beats dying away in the dreamy distance, with a grin of positively
malicious satisfaction, hoping sincerely that they will keep galloping onward for the next
twenty miles.  No such happy consummation of my wishes occurs, however; a couple of miles up
the ascent I find them hobnobbing with some Persian caravan men and patiently awaiting my appearance,
having learned from the Persians that I had not yet gone past.  Mingled with the keen disappointment
of overtaking them so quickly, is the pleasure of witnessing the Persians' camels regaling
themselves on a patch of juicy thistles of most luxuriant growth; the avidity with which they
attack the great prickly vegetation, and the expression of satisfaction, utter and peculiar,
that characterizes a camel while munching a giant thistle stalk that protrudes two feet out
of his mouth, is simply indescribable.

>From this pass I descend into the Aras Plain, and, behold the gigantic form of Ararat rises
up before me, seemingly but a few miles away; as a matter of fact it is about twenty miles
distant, but with nothing intervening between myself and its tremendous proportions but the
level plain, the distance is deceptive.  No human habitations are visible save the now familiar
black tents of Koordish tribesmen away off to the north, and as I ride along I am overtaken
by a sensation of being all alone in the company of an overshadowing and awe-inspiring presence.
One's attention seems irresistibly attracted toward the mighty snow-crowrned monarch, as though,the
immutable law of attraction were sensibly exerting itself to draw lesser bodies to it, and
all other objects around seemed dwarfed into insignificant proportions.  One obtains a most
comprehensive idea of Ararat's 17,325 feet when viewing it from the Aras Plain, as it rises
sheer from the plain, and not from the shoulders of a range that constitutes of itself the
greater part of the height, as do many mountain peaks.  A few miles to the eastward is Little
Ararat, an independent conical peak of 12,800 feet, without snow, but conspicuous and distinct
from surrounding mountains; its proportions are completely dwarfed and overshadowed by the
nearness and bulkiness of its big brother.  The Aras Plain is lava-strewn and uncultivated
for a number of miles; the spongy, spreading feet of innumerable camels have worn paths in
the hard lava deposit that makes the wheeling equal to English roads, except for occasional
stationary blocks of lava that the animals have systematically stepped over for centuries,
and which not infrequently block the narrow trail and compel a dismount.  Evidently Ararat
was once a volcano; the lofty peak which now presents a wintry appearance even in the hottest
summer weather, formerly belched forth lurid flames that lit up the surrounding country, and
poured out fiery torrents of molten lava that stratified the abutting hills, and spread like
an overwhelming flood over the Aras Plain.  Abutting Ararat on the west are stratiform hills,
the strata of which are plainly distinguishable from the Persian trail and which, were their
inclination continued, would strike Ararat at or near the summit.  This would seem to indicate
the layers to be representations of the mountain's former volcanic overflowings.  I am sitting
on a block of lava making an outline sketch of Ararat, when a peasant happens along with a
bullock-load of cucumbers which he is taking to the Koordish camps; he is pretty badly scared
at finding himself all alone on the Aras Plain with such a nondescript and dangerous-looking
object as a helmeted wheelman, and when I halt him with inquiries concerning the nature of
his wares he turns pale and becomes almost speechless with fright.  He would empty his sacks
as a peace-offering at my feet without venturing upon a remonstrance, were he ordered to do
so; and when I relieve him of but one solitary cucumber, and pay him more than he would obtain
for it among the Koords, he becomes stupefied with astonishment; when he continues on his way
he hardly knows whether he is on his head or his feet.  An hour later I arrive at Kizil Dizah,
the last village in Turkish territory, and an official station of considerable importance,
where passports, caravan permits, etc., of everybody passing to or from Persia have to be examined.
An officer here provides me with refreshments, and while generously permitting the population
to come in and enjoy the extraordinary spectacle of seeing me fed, he thoughtfully stations
a man with a stick to keep them at a respectful distance.  A later hour in the afternoon finds
me trundling up a long acclivity leading to the summit of a low mountain ridge; arriving at
the summit I stand on the boundary-line between the dominions of the Sultan and the Shah, and
I pause a minute to take a brief, retrospective glance.  The cyclometer, affixed to the bicycle
at Constantinople, now registers within a fraction of one thousand miles; it has been on the
whole an arduous thousand miles, but those who in the foregoing pages have followed me through
the strange and varied experiences of the journey will agree with me when I say that it has
proved more interesting than arduous after all.  I need not here express any blunt opinions
of the different people encountered; it is enough that my observations concerning them have
been jotted down as I have mingled with them and their characteristics from day to day; almost
without exception, they have treated me the best they knew how; it is only natural that some
should know how better than others.  Bidding farewell, then, to the land of the Crescent and
the home of the unspeakable Osmanli, I wheel down a gentle slope into a mountain-environed
area of cultivated fields, where Persian peasants are busy gathering their harvest.  The strange
apparition observed descending from the summit of the boundary attracts universal attention;
I can hear them calling out to each other, and can see horsemen come wildly galloping from
every direction.  In a few minutes the road in my immediate vicinity is alive with twenty prancing
steeds; some are bestrode by men who, from the superior quality of their clothes and the gaudy
trappings of their horses, are evidently in good circumstances; others by wild-looking, barelegged
bipeds, whose horses' trappings consist of nothing but a bridle.  The transformation brought
about by crossing the mountain ridge is novel and complete; the fez, so omnipresent throughout
the Ottoman dominions, has disappeared, as if by magic; the better class Persians wear tall,
brimless black hats of Astrakan lamb's wool; some of the peasantry wear an unlovely, close-
fitting skullcap of thick gray felt, that looks wonderfully like a bowl clapped on top of their
heads, others sport a huge woolly head-dress like the Roumanians; this latter imparts to them
a fierce, war-like appearance, that the meek-eyed Persian ryot (tiller of the soil) is far
from feeling.  The national garment is a sort of frock-coat gathered at the waist, and with
a skirt of ample fulness, reaching nearly to the knees; among the wealthier class the material
of this garment is usually cloth of a solid, dark color, and among the ryots or peasantry,
of calico or any cheap fabric they can obtain.  Loose-fitting pantaloons of European pattern,
and sometimes top-boots, with tops ridiculously ample in their looseness, characterize the
nether garments of the better classes; the ryots go mostly bare-legged in summer, and wear
loose, slipper-like foot- gear; the soles of both boots and shoes are frequently pointed, and
made to turn up and inwards, after the fashion in England centuries ago.

Nightfall overtakes me as, after travelling several miles of variable road, I commence following
a winding trail down into the valley of a tributary of the Arasces toward Ovahjik, where resides
the Pasha Khan, to whom I have a letter; but the crescent-shaped moon sheds abroad a silvery
glimmer that exerts a softening influence upon the mountains outlined against the ever-arching
dome, from whence here and there a star begins to twinkle.  It is one of those. beautiful,
calm autumn evenings when all nature seems hushed in peaceful slumbers; when the stars seem
to first peep cautiously from the impenetrable depths of their hiding-place, and then to commence
blinking benignantly and approvingly upon the world; and when the moon looks almost as though
fair Luna has been especially decorating herself to embellish a scene that without her lovely
presence would be incomplete.  Such is my first autumn evening beneath the cloudless skies
of Persia.

Soon the village of Ovahjik is reached, and some peasants guide me to the residence of the
Pasha Khan.  The servant who presents my letter of introduction fills the untutored mind of
his master with wonderment concerning what the peasants have told him about the bicycle.  The
Pasha Khan makes his appearance without having taken the trouble to open the envelope.  He
is a dull-faced, unintellectual-lookiug personage, and without any preliminary palaver he says:
"Bin bacalem," in a dictatorial tone of voice.  "Bacalem yole lazim, bacalem saba," I reply,
for it is too dark to ride on unknown ground this evening.  " Bin bacalem, " repeats the Pasha
Khan, even more dictatorial than before, ordering a servant to bring a tallow candle, so that
I can have no excuse.  There appears to be such a total absence of all consideration for myself
that I am not disposed to regard very favorably or patiently the obtrusive meddlesomeness of
two younger men-whom I afterward discover to be sons of the Pasha Khan - who seem almost inclined
to take the bicycle out of my charge altogether, in their excessive impatience and inordinate
inquisitiveness to examine everything about it.  One of them, thinking the cyclometer to be
a watch, puts his ear down to see if he can hear it tick, and then persists in fingering it
about, to the imminent danger of the tally-pin. After telling him several times not to meddle
with it, and receiving overbearing gestures in reply, I deliberately throw him backward into
an irrigating ditch.  A gleam of intelligence overspreads the stolid countenance of the Pasha
Khan at seeing his offspring floundering about on his back in the mud and water, and he gives
utterance to a chuckle of delight.  The discomfited young man betrays nothing of the spirit
of resentment upon recovering himself from the ditch, and the other son involuntarily retreats
as though afraid his turn was coming next.  The servant now arrives with the lighted candle,
and the Pasha Kahn leads the way into his garden, where there is a wide brick-paved walk; the
house occupies one side of the garden, the other three sides are inclosed by a high mud wall.
After riding a few times along the brick-paved walk, and promising to do better in the morning.
I naturally expect to be taken into the house, instead of which the Pasha Khan orders the people
to show me the way to the caravanserai.  Arriving at the caravanserai, and finding myself thus
thrown unexpectedly upon my own resources, I inquire of some bystanders where I can obtain
elcmek; some of them want to know how many liras I will give for ekmek.  When it is reflected
that a lira is nearly five dollars, one realizes from this something of the unconscionable
possibilities of the Persian commercial mind.

While this question is being mooted, a figure appears in the doorway, toward which the people
one and all respectfully salaam and give way. It is the great Pasha Khan; he has bethought
himself to open my letter of introduction, and having perused it and discovered who it was
from and all about me, he now comes and squats down in the most friendly manner by my side
for a minute, as though to remove any unfavorable impressions his inhospitable action in sending
me here might have made, and then bids me accompany him back to his residence.  After permitting
him to eat a sufficiency of humble pie in the shape of coaxing, to atone for his former incivility,
I agree to his proposal and accompany him back.  Tea is at once provided, the now very friendly
Pasha Khan putting extra lumps of sugar into my glass with his own hands and stirring it up;
bread and cheese comes in with the tea, and under the mistaken impression that this constitutes
the Persian evening meal I eat sufficient to satisfy my hunger.  While thus partaking freely
of the bread and cheese, I do not fail to notice that the others partake very sparingly, and
that they seem to be rather astonished because I am not following their example.  Being chiefly
interested in satisfying my appetite, however, their silent observations have no effect save
to further mystify my understanding of the Persian character.  The secret of all this soon
reveals itself in the form of an ample repast of savory chicken pillau, brought in immediately
afterward; and while the Pasha Khan and his two sons proceed to do full justice to this highly
acceptable dish, I have to content myself with nibbling at a piece of chicken, and ruminating
on the unhappy and ludicrous mistake of having satisfied my hunger with dry bread and cheese.
Thus does one pay the penalty of being unacquainted with the domestic customs of a country
when first entering upon its experiences.  There seems to be no material difference between
the social position of the women here and in Turkey; they eat their meals by themselves, and
occupy entirely separate apartments, which are unapproachable to members of the opposite sex
save their husbands.  The Pasha Khan of Ovahjik, however, seems to be a kind, indulgent husband
and father, requesting me next morning to ride up and down the brick-paved walk for the benefit
of his wives and daughters.  In the seclusion of their own walled premises the Persian females
are evidently not so particular about concealing their features, and I obtained a glimpse of
some very pretty faces; oval faces with large dreamy black eyes, and a flush of warm sunset
on brownish cheeks.  The indoor costume of Persian women is but an inconsiderable improvement
upon the costume of our ancestress in the garden of Eden, and over this they hastily don a
flimsy shawl-like garment to come out and see me ride.  They are always much less concerned
about concealing their nether extremities than about their faces, and as they seem but little
concerned about anything on this occasion save the bicycle, after riding for them I have to
congratulate myself that, so far as sight-seeing is concerned, the ladies leave me rather under
obligations than otherwise.

After supper the Pasha Khan's falconer brings in several fine falcons for my inspection, and
in reply to questions concerning one with his eyelids tied up in what appears to be a cruel
manner, I am told that this is the customary way of breaking the spirits of the young falcons
and rendering them tractable and submissive  the eyelids are pierced with a hole, a silk thread
is then fastened to each eyelid and the ends tied together over the head, sufficiently tight
to prevent them opening their eyes.  Falconing is considered the chief out-door sport of the
Persian nobility, but the average Persian is altogether too indolent for out-door sport, and
the keeping of falcons is fashionable, because regarded as a sign of rank and nobility rather
than for sport.  In the morning the Pasha Khan is wonderfully agreeable, and appears anxious
to atone as far as possible for the little incivility of yesterday evening, and to remove any
unfavorable impressions I may perchance entertain of him on that account before I leave.  His
two sons and a couple of soldiers accompany me on horseback some distance up the valley.  The
valley is studded with villages, and at the second one we halt at the residence of a gentleman
named Abbas Koola Khan, and partake of tea and light refreshments in his garden.  Here I learn
that the Pasha Khan has carried his good intentions to the extent of having made arrangements
to provide me armed escort from point to point; how far ahead this well-meaning arrangement
is to extend I am unable to understand; neither do I care to find out, being already pretty
well convinced that the escort will prove an insufferable nuisance to be gotten rid of at the
first favorable opportunity.  Abbas Koola Khan now joins the company until we arrive at the
summit of a knoll commanding an extensive view of my road ahead so they can stand and watch
me when they all bid me farewell save the soldier who is to accompany me further on.  As we
shake hands, the young man whom I pushed into the irrigating ditch, points to a similar receptacle
near by and shakes his head with amusing solemnity; whether this is expressive of his sorrow
that I should have pushed him in, or that he should have annoyed me to the extent of having
deserved it, I cannot say; probably the latter.  My escort, though a soldier, is dressed but
little different from the better-class villagers; he is an almond-eyed individual, with more
of the Tartar cast of countenance than the Persian.  Besides the short Persian sword, he is
armed with a Martini Henry rifle of the 1862 pattern; numbers of these rifles having found
their way into the hands of Turks, Koords and Persians, since the RussoTurkish war.  My predictions
concerning his turning out an insupportable nuisance are not suffered to remain long unverified,
for he appears to consider it his chief duty to gallop ahead and notify the villagers of my
approach, and to work them up to the highest expectations concerning my marvellous appearance.
The result of all this is a swelling of his own importance at having so wonderful a person
under his protection, and my own transformation from an unostentatious traveller to something
akin to a free circus for crowds of barelegged ryots.  I soon discover that, with characteristic
Persian truthfulness, he has likewise been spreading the interesting report that I am journeying
in this extraordinary manner to carry a message from the "Ingilis Shah " to the "Shah in Shah
of Iran " (the Persians know their own country as Iran) thereby increasing his own importance
and the wonderment of the people concerning myself.  The Persian villages, so far, are little
different from the Turkish, but such valuable property as melon-gardens, vineyards, etc., instead
of being presided over by a watchman, are usually surrounded by substantial mud walls ten or
twelve feet high.  The villagers themselves, being less improvident and altogether more thoughtful
of number one than the Turks, are on the whole, a trifle less ragged; but that is saying very
little indeed, and their condition is anything but enviable.  During the summer they fare comparatively
well, needing but little clothing, and they are happy and contented in the absence of actual
suffering; they are perfectly satisfied with a diet of bread and fruit and cucumbers, rarely
tasting meat of any kind.  But fuel is as scarce as in Asia Minor, and like the Turks and Armenians,
in winter they have resource to a peculiar and economical arrangement to keep themselves warm;
placing a pan of burning tezek beneath a low table, the whole family huddle around it, covering
the table and themselves -save of course their heads-up with quilts; facing each other in this
ridiculous manner, they chat and while away the dreary days of winter.

At the third village after leaving the sons of the Pasha Khan, my Tartar- eyed escort, with
much garrulous injunction to his successor, delivers me over to another soldier, himself returning
back; this is my favorable opportunity, and soon after leaving the village I bid my valiant
protector return.  The man seems totally unable to comprehend why I should order him to leave
me, and makes an elaborate display of his pantomimic abilities to impress upon me the information
that the country ahead is full of very bad Koords, who will kill and rob me if I venture among
them unprotected by a soldier.  The expressive action of drawing the finger across the throat
appears to be the favorite method of signifying personal danger among all these people; but
I already understand that the Persians live in deadly fear of the nomad Koords.  Consequently
his warnings, although evidently sincere, fall on biased ears, and I peremptorily order him
to depart.  The Tabreez trail is now easily followed without a guide, and with a sense of perfect
freedom and unrestraint, that is destroyed by having a horseman cantering alongside one, I
push ahead, finding the roads variable, and passing through several villages during the day.
The chief concern of the ryots is to detain me until they can bring the resident Khan to see
me ride, evidently from a servile desire to cater to his pleasure.  They gather around me and
prevent my departure until he arrives.  An appeal to the revolver will invariably secure my
release, but one naturally gets ashamed of threatening people's lives even under the exasperating
circumstances of a forcible detention.  Once to-day I managed to outwit them beautifully. 
Pretending acquiescence in their proposition of waiting till the arrival of their Khan, I propose
mounting and riding a few yards for their own edification while waiting; in their eagerness
to see they readily fall into the trap, and the next minute sees me flying down the road with
a swarm of bare-legged ryots in full chase after me, yelling for me to stop.  Fortunately,
they have no horses handy, but some of these lanky fellows can run like deer almost, and nothing
but an excellent piece of road enables me to outdistance my pursuers.  Wily as the Persians
are, compared to the Osmanlis, one could play this game on them quite frequently, owing to
their eagerness to see the bicycle ridden; but it is seldom that the road is sufficiently smooth
to justify the attempt.  I was gratified to learn from the Persian consul at Erzeroum that
my stock of Turkish would answer me as far as Teheran, the people west of the capital speaking
a dialect known as Tabreez Turkish; still, I find quite a difference.  Almost every Persian
points to the bicycle and says: "Boo; ndmi ndder.  " ("This; what is it?") and it is several
days ere I have an opportunity of finding out exactly what they mean.  They are also exceedingly
prolific in using the endearing term of kardash when accosting me.  The distance is now reckoned
by farsakhs (roughly, four miles) instead of hours; but, although the farsakh is a more tangible
and comprehensive measurement than the Turkish hour, in reality it is almost as unreliable
to go by.  Towards evening I ascend into a more mountainous region, inhabited exclusively by
nomad Koords; from points of vantage their tents are observable clustered here and there at
the bases of the mountains.  Descending into a grassy valley or depression, I find myself in
close proximity to several different camps, and eagerly avail myself of the opportunity to
pass a night among them. I am now in the heart of Northern Koordistan, which embraces both
Persian and Turkish territory, and the occasion is most opportune for seeing something of these
wild nomads in their own mountain pastures.  The greensward is ridable, and I dismount before
the Sheikh's tent in the presence of a highly interested and interesting audience.  The half-wild
dogs make themselves equally interesting in another and a less desirable sense as I approach,
but the men pelt them with stones, and when I dismount they conduct me and the bicycle at once
into the tent of their chieftain.  The Sheikh's tent is capacious enough to shelter a regiment
almost, and it is divided into compartments similar to a previous description; the Sheikh is
a big, burly fellow, of about forty-five, wearing a turban the size of a half-bushel measure,
and dressed pretty much like a well-to-do Turk; as a matter of fact, the Koords admire the
Osmanlis and despise the Persians.  The bicycle is reclined against a carpet partition, and
after the customary interchange of questions, a splendid fellow, who must be six feet six inches
tall, and broad-shouldered in proportion, squats himself cross-legged beside me, and proceeds
to make himself agreeable, rolling me cigarettes, asking questions, and curiously investigating
anything about me that strikes him as peculiar. I show them, among other things, a cabinet
photograph of myself in all the glory of needle-pointed mustache and dress-parade apparel;
after a critical examination and a brief conference among themselves they pronounce me an "English
Pasha." I then hand the Sheikh a set of sketches, but they are not sufficiently civilized to
appreciate the sketches; they hold them upside down and sidewise; and not being able to make
anything out of them, the Sheikh holds them in his hand and looks quite embarrassed, like a
person in possession of something he doesn't know what to do with. Noticing that the women
are regarding these proceedings with much interest from behind a low partition, and not having
yet become reconciled to the Mohammedan idea of women being habitually ignored and overlooked,
I venture upon taking the photograph to them; they seem much confused at finding themselves
the object of direct attention, and they appear several degrees wilder than the men, so far
as comprehending such a product of civilization as a photograph is an indication.  It requires
more material objects than sketches and photos to meet the appreciation of these semi- civilized
children of the desert.  They bring me their guns and spears to look at and pronounce upon,
and then my stalwart entertainer grows inquisitive about my revolver.  First extracting the
cartridges to prevent accident, I hand it to him, and he takes it for the Sheikh's inspection.
The Sheikh examines the handsome little Smith & Wesson long and wistfully, and then toys with
it several minutes, apparently reluctant about having to return it; finally he asks me to give
him a cartridge and let him go out and test its accuracy.  I am getting a trifle uneasy at
his evident covetousness of the revolver, and in this request I see my opportunity of giving
him to understand that it would be a useless weapon for him to possess, by telling him I have
but a few cartridges and that others are not procurable in Koordistan or neighboring countries.
Recognizing immediately its uselessness to him under such circumstances, he then returns it
without remark; whether he would have confiscated it without this timely explanation, it is
difficult to say.

Shortly after the evening meal, an incident occurs which causes considerable amusement.  Everything
being unusually quiet, one sharp-eared youth happens to hear the obtrusive ticking of my Waterbury,
and strikes a listening attitude, at which everybody else likewise begins listening; the tick,
tick is plainly discernible to everybody in the compartment and they become highly interested
and amused, and commence looking at me for an explanation.  With a view to humoring the spirit
of amusement thus awakened, I likewise smile, but affect ignorance and innocence concerning
the origin of the mysterious ticking, and strike a listening attitude as well as the others.
Presuming upon our interchange of familiarity, our six-foot-sixer then commences searching
about my clothing for the watch, but being hidden away in a pantaloon fob, and minus a chain,
it proves beyond his power of discovery.  Nevertheless, by bending his head down and listening,
he ascertains and announces it to be somewhere about my person; the Waterbury is then produced,
and the loudness of its ticking awakes the wonder and admiration of the Koords, even to a greater
extent than the Turks.  During the evening, the inevitable question of Euss, Osmanli, and English
crops up, and I win unanimous murmurs of approval by laying my forefingers together and stating
that the English and the Osmanlis are kardash.  I show them my Turkish teskeri, upon which
several of them bestow fervent kisses, and when, by means of placing several stones here and
there I explained to them how in 1877, the hated Muscov occupied different Mussulman cities
one after the other, and was prevented by the English from occupying their dearly beloved Stamboul
itself, their admiration knows no bounds.  Along the trail, not over a mile from camp, a large
Persian caravan has been halting during the day; late in the evening loud shouting and firing
of guns announces them as prepared to start on their night's journey.  It is customary when
going through this part of Koordistan for the caravan men to fire guns and make as much noise
as possible, in order to impress the Koords with exaggerated ideas concerning their strength
and number; everybody in the Sheikh's tent thoroughly understands the meaning of the noisy
demonstration, and the men exchange significant smiles.  The firing and the shouting produce
a truly magical effect upon a blood-thirsty youngster of ten or twelve summers; he becomes
wildly hilarious, gamboling about the tent, and rolling over and kicking up his heels.  He
then goes to the Sheikh, points to me, and draws his finger across his throat, intimating that
he would like the privilege of cutting somebody's throat, and why not let him cut mine.  The
Sheikh and others laugh at this, but instead of chiding him for his tragical demonstration,
they favor him with the same admiring glances that grown people bestow upon precocious youngsters
the world over.  Under these circumstances of abject fear on the one hand, and inbred propensity
for violence and plunder on the other, it is really surprising to find the Koords in Persian
territory behaving themselves as well as they do.  Quilts are provided for me, and I occupy
this same compartment of the tent, in common with several of the younger men.  In the morning,
before departing, I am regaled with bread and rich, new cream, and when leaving the tent I
pause a minute to watch the busy scene in the female department.  Some are churning butter
in sheep-skin churns which are suspended from poles and jerked back and forth; others are weaving
carpets, preparing curds for cheese, baking bread, and otherwise industriously employed.  I
depart from the Koordish camp thoroughly satisfied with my experience of their hospitality,
but the cerulean waist-scarf bestowed upon me by our Hungarian friend Igali, at Belgrade, no
longer adds its embellishments to my personal adornments.  Whenever a favorable opportunity
presents, certain young men belonging to the noble army of hangers-on about the Sheikh's apartments
invariably glide inside, and importune the guest from Frangistan for any article of his clothing
that excites the admiration of their semi-civilized minds.  This scarf, they were doubtless
penetrating enough to observe, formed no necessary part of my wardrobe, and a dozen times in
the evening, and again in the morning, I was worried to part with it, so I finally presented
it to one of them.  He hastily hid it away among his clothes and disappeared, as though fearful,
either that the Sheikh might see it and make him return it, or that one of the chieftain's
favorites might take a fancy to it and summarily appropriate it to his own use.

Not more than five miles eastward from the camp, while trundling over a stretch of stony ground,
I am accosted by a couple of Koordiah shepherds; but as the country immediately around is wild
and unfrequented, save by Koords, and knowing something of their little weaknesses toward travellers
under tempting, one-sided conditions, I deem it advisable to pay as little heed to them as
possible.  Seeing that I have no intention of halting, they come running up, and undertake
to forcibly detain me by seizing hold of the bicycle, at the same time making no pretence of
concealing their eager curiosity concerning the probable contents of my luggage.  Naturally
disapproving of this arbitrary conduct, I push them roughly away.  With a growl more like the
voice of a wild animal than of human beings, one draws his sword and the other picks up a thick
knobbed stick that he had dropped in order to the better pinch and sound my packages.  Without
giving them time to reveal whether they seriously intend attacking me, or only to try intimidation,
I have them nicely covered with the Smith & Wesson.  They seem to comprehend in a moment that
I have them at a disadvantage, and they hurriedly retreat a short distance, executing a series
of gyral antics, as though expecting me to fire at their legs.  They are accompanied by two
dogs, tawny-coated monsters, larger than the largest mastiffs, who now proceed to make things
lively and interesting around myself and the bicycle.  Keeping the revolver in my hand, and
threatening to shoot their dogs if they don't call them away, I continue my progress toward
where the stony ground terminates in favor of smooth camel-paths, about' a hundred yards farther
on.  At this juncture I notice several other "gentle shepherds " coming racing down from the
adjacent knolls; but whether to assist their comrades in catching and robbing me, or to prevent
a conflict between us, will always remain an uncertainty.  I am afraid, however, that with
the advantage on their side, the Koordish herdsmen rarely trouble themselves about any such
uncongenial task as peace-making.  Reaching the smooth ground before any of the new-comers
overtake me, I mount and speed away, followed by wild yells from a dozen Koordish throats,
and chased by a dozen of their dogs.  Upon sober second thought, when well away from the vicinity,
I conclude this to have been a rather ticklish incident; had they attacked me in the absence
of anything else to defend myself with, I should have been compelled to shoot them; the nearest
Persian village is about ten miles distant; the absence of anything like continuously ridable
road would have made it impossible to out-distance their horsemen, and a Persian village would
have afforded small security against a party of enraged Koords, after all.  The first village
I arrive at to-day, I again attempt the "skedaddling" dodge on them that proved so successful
on one occasion yesterday; but I am foiled by a rocky "jump-off" in the road to-day.  The road
is not so favorable for spurting as yesterday, and the racing ryots grab me amid much boisterous
merriment ere * I overcome the obstruction; they take particular care not to give me another
chance until the arrival of the Khan.  The country hereabouts consists of gravelly, undulating
plateaus between the mountains, and well-worn camel-paths afford some excellent wheeling. 
Near mid-day, while laboriously ascending a long but not altogether unridable ascent, I meet
a couple of mounted soldiers; they obstruct my road, and proceed to deliver themselves of voluble
Tabreez Turkish, by which I understand that they are the advance guard of a party in which
there is a Ferenghi (the Persian term for an Occidental).  While talking with them I am somewhat
taken by surprise at seeing a lady on horseback and two children in a kajaveh (mule panier)
appear over the slope, accompanied by about a dozen Persians.

If I am surprised, the lady herself not unnaturally evinces even greater astonishment at the
apparition of a lone wheelman here on the caravan roads of Persia; of course we are mutually
delighted.  With the assistance of her servant, the lady alights from the saddle and introduces
herself as Mrs. E--, the wife of one of the Persian missionaries; her husband has lately returned
home, and she is on the way to join him.  The Persians accompanying her comprise her own servants,
some soldiers procured of the Governor of Tabreez by the English consul to escort her as far
as the Turkish frontier, and a couple of unattached travellers keeping with the party for company
and society.  A mule driver has charge of pack-mules carrying boxes containing, among other
things, her husband's library. During the course of ten minutes' conversation the lady informs
me that she is compelled to travel in this manner the whole distance to Trebizond, owing to
the practical impossibility of passing through Bussian territory with the library.  Were it
not for this a comparatively short and easy journey would take them to Tiflis, from which point
there would be steam communication with Europe.  Ere the poor lady gets to Trebizond she will
be likely to reflect that a government so civilized as the Czar's might relax its gloomy laws
sufficiently to allow the affixing of official seals to a box of books, and permit its transportation
through the country, on condition-if they will-that it should not be opened in transit; surely
there would be no danger of the people's minds being enlightened -not even a little bit-by
coming in contact with a library tightly boxed and sealed.  At the frontier an escort of Turkish
zaptiehs will take the place of the Persian soldiers, and at Erzeroum the missionaries will,
of course, render her every assistance to Trebizond; but it is not without feelings of anxiety
for the health of a lady travelling in this rough manner unaccompanied by her natural protector,
that I reflect on the discomforts she must necessarily put up with between here and Erzeroum.
She seems in good spirits, however, and says that meeting me here in this extraordinary manner
is the "most romantic" incident in her whole experiences of missionary life in Persia.  Like
many another, she says, she can I scarcely conceive it possible that I am travelling without
attendants and without being able to speak the languages.  One of the unattached travellers
gives me a note of introduction to Mohammed.  Ali Khan, the Governor of Peri, a suburban village
of Khoi, which I expect to reach some time this afternoon.

CHAPTER XIX.

PERSIA AND THE TABREEZ CARAVAN TRAIL.

A SHORT trundle to the summit of a sloping pass, and then a winding descent of several miles
brings me to a position commanding a view of an extensive valley that looks from this distance
as lovely as a dreamy vision of Paradise.  An hour later and I am bowling along beneath overhanging
peach and mulberry trees, following a volunteer horseman to Mohammed Ali Khan's garden.  Before
reaching the garden a gang of bare-legged laborers engaged in patching up a mud wall favor
me with a fusillade of stones, one of which caresses me on the ankle, and makes me limp like
a Greenwich pensioner when I dismount a minute or two afterward.  This is their peculiar way
of complimenting a lone Ferenghi.  Mohammed Ali Khan is found to be rather a moon-faced individual
under thirty, who, together with his subordinate officials, are occupying tents in a large
garden.  Here, during the summer, they dispense justice to applicants for the same within their
jurisdiction, and transact such other official business as is brought before them.  In Persi,
the distribution of justice consists chiefly in the officials ruthlessly looting the applicants
of everything lootable, and the weightiest task of the officials is intriguing together against
the pocket of the luckless wight who ventures upon seeking equity at their hands.  A sorrowful-visaged
husbandman is evidently experiencing the easy simplicity of Persian civil justice as I enter
the garden; he wears the mournful expression of a man conscious of being irretrievably doomed,
while the festive Kahn and his equally festive moonshi bashi (chief secretary) are laying their
wicked heads together and whispering mysteriously, fifty paces away from everybody, ever and
anon looking suspiciously around as though fearful of the presence of eavesdroppers. After
duly binning, a young man called Abdullah, who seems to be at the beck and call of everybody,
brings forth the samovar, and we drink the customary tea of good fellowship, after which they
examine such of my modest effects as take their fancy.  The moonshi bashi, as becomes a man
of education, is quite infatuated with my pocket map of Persia; the fact that Persia occupies
so great a space on the map in comparison with the small portions of adjoining countries visible
around the edges makes a powerful appeal to his national vanity, and he regards me with increased
affection every time I trace out for him the comprehensive boundary line of his native Iran.
After nightfall we repair to the principal tent, and Mohammed Ali Khan and his secretary consume
the evening hours in the joyous occupation of alternately smoking the kalian (Persian water-pipe,
not unlike the Turkish nargileh, except that it has a straight stem instead of a coiled tube),
and swallowing glasses of raw arrack every few minutes; they furthermore amuse themselves by
trying to induce me to follow their noble example, and in poking fun at another young man because
his conscientious scruples regarding the Mohammedan injunction against intoxicants forbids
him indulging with them.  About eight o'clock the Khan becomes a trifle sentimental and very
patriotic.  Producing a pair of silver-mounted horse-pistols from a corner of the tent, and
waving them theatrically about, he proclaims aloud his mighty devotion to the Shah.  At nine
o'clock Abdullah brings in the supper.  The Khan's vertebra has become too limp and willowy
to enable him to sit upright, and he has become too indifferent to such coarse, un-spiritual
things as stewed chicken and musk-melons to care about eating any, while the moonshi bashi's
affection for me on account of the map has become so overwhelming that he deliberately empties
all the chicken on to my sheet of bread, leaving none whatever for himself and the phenomenal
young person with the conscientious scruples.

When bedtime arrives it requires the united exertions of Abdullah and the phenomenal young
man to partially undress Mohammed Ali Khan and drag him to his couch on the floor, the Kahn
being limp as a dish-rag and a moderately bulky person.  The moonshi bashi, as becomes an individual
of lesser rank and superior mental attainments, is not quite so helpless as his official superior,
but on retiring he humorously reposes his feet on the pillow and his head on nothing but the
bare floor of the tent, and stubbornly refuses to permit Abdullah to alter either his pillow
or his position.  The phenomenal young man and myself likewise seek our respective pile of
quilts, Abdullah removes the lamp, draws a curtain over the entrance of the tent, and retires.

The Persians, as representing the Shiite division of the Mohammedan religion, consider themselves
by long odds the holiest people on the earth, far holier than the Turks, whom they religiously
despise as Sunnites and unworthy to loose the latchets of their shoes.  The Koran strictly
enjoins upon them great moderation in the use of intoxicating drinks, yet certain of the Persian
nobility are given to drinking this raw intoxicant by the quart daily.  When asked why they
don't use it in moderation, they reply, " What is the good of drinking arrack unless one drinks
enough to become drunk and happy.  " Following this brilliant idea, many of them get " drank
and happy " regularly every evening.  They likewise frequently consume as much as a pint before
each meal to create a false appetite and make themselves feel boozy while eating.  In the morning
the moonshi bashi, with a soldier for escort, accompanies me on horseback to Khoi, which is
but about seven miles distant over a perfectly level road.  Sad to say, the moonshi bashi,
besides his yearning affection for fiery, untamed arrack, is a confirmed opium smoker, and
after last night's debauch for supper and "hitting the pipe " this morning for breakfast, he
doesn't feel very dashing in the saddle; consequently I have to accommodate myself to his pace.
It is the slowest seven miles ever ridden on the road by a wheelman, I think; a funeral procession
is a lively, rattling affair, beside our onward progress toward the mud battlements of Khoi,
but there is no help for it.  Whenever I venture to the fore a little the dreamy-eyed moonshi
bashi regards me with a gaze of mild reproachfulness, and sings out in a gently-chide-the-erring
tone of voice: "Kardash.  Kardash." meaning " f we are brothers, why do you seem to want to
leave me."  Human nature could scarcely be proof against an appeal wherein endearment and reproach
are so beautifully and harmoniously blended, and it always brings me back to a level with his
horse.  Reaching the suburbs of Khoi, I am initiated into a new departure - new to myself at
this time - of Persian sanctimoniousness.  Halting at a fountain to obtain a drink, the soldier
shapes himself for pouring the water out of the earthenware drinking vessel into my hands;
supposing this to be merely an indication of the Persian's own method of drinking, I motion
my preference for drinking out of the jar itself.  The soldier looks appealingly toward the
moonshi bashi, who tells him to let me drink, and then orders him to smash the jar.  It then
dawns upon my unenlightened mind, that being a Ferenghi, I should have known better than to
have touched my unhallowed lips to a drinking vessel at a public fountain, defiling it by so
doing, so that it must be smashed in order that the sons of the "true prophet" may not unwittingly
drink from it afterward and themselves become defiled.  The moonshi bashi pilots me to the
residence of a certain wealthy citizen outside the city walls; this person, a mild- mannered,
purring-voiced man, is seated in a room with a couple of seyuds, or descendants of the prophet;
they are helping themselves from a large platter of the finest, pears, peaches, and egg plums
I ever saw anywhere.  The room is carpeted with costly rugs and carpets in which one's feet
sink perceptibly at every step; the walls and ceiling are artistically stuccoed, and the doors
and windows are gay with stained glass.  Abandoning myself to the guidance of the moonshi bashi,
I ride around the garden-walks, show them the bicycle, revolver, map of Persia, etc.; like
the moonshi bashi, they become deeply interested in the map, finding much amusement and satisfaction
in having me point out the location of different Persian cities, seemingly regarding my ability
to do so as evidence of exceeding cleverness and erudition.  The untravelled Persians of the
northern provinces regard Teheran as the grand idea of a large and important city; if there
is any place in the whole world larger and more important, they think it may perhaps be Stamboul.
The fact that Stamboul is not on my map while Teheran is, they regard as conclusive proof 
of the superiority of their own capital.  The moonshi bashi's chief purpose in accompanying
me hither has been to introduce me to the attention of the "hoikim"; although the pronunciation
is a little different from hakim, I attribute this to local brogue, and have been surmising
this personage to be some doctor, who, perhaps, having graduated at a Frangistan medical college,
the moonshi bashi thinks will be able to converse with me.  After partaking of fruit and tea
we continue on our way to the nearest gate-way of the city proper, Khoi being surrounded by
a ditch and battlemented mud wall.  Arriving at a large, public inclosure, my guide sends in
a letter, and shortly afterward delivers me over to some soldiers, who forthwith conduct me
into the presence of - not a doctor, but Ali Khan, the Governor of the city, an officer who
hereabouts rejoices in the title of the "hoikim." The Governor proves to be a man of superior
intelligence; he has been Persian ambassador to France some time ago, and understands French
fairly well; consequently we manage to understand each other after a fashion.  Although he
has never before seen a bicycle, his knowledge of the mechanical ingenuity of the Ferenghis
causes him to regard it with more intelligence than an un-travelled native, and to better comprehend
my journey and its object.  Assisted by a dozen mollahs (priests) and officials in flowing
gowns and henna-tinted beards and finger-nails, the Governor is transacting official business,
and he invites me to come into the council chamber and be seated.  In a few minutes the noon-tide
meal is announced; the Governor invites me to dine with them, and then leads the way into the
dining-room, followed by his counsellors, who form in line behind him according to their rank.
The dining-room is a large, airy apartment, opening into an extensive garden; a bountiful repast
is spread on yellow- checkered tablecloths on the carpeted floor; the Governor squats cross-
legged at one end, the stately-looking wiseacres in flowing gowns range themselves along each
side in a similar attitude, with much solemnity and show of dignity; they - at least so I fancy
- evidently are anything but rejoiced at the prospect of eating with an infidel Ferenghi. 
The Governor, being a far more enlightened and consequently less bigoted personage, looks about
him a trifle embarrassed, as if searching for some place where he can seat me in a position
of becoming honor without offending the prejudices of his sanctimonious counsellors.  Noticing
this, I at once come to his relief by taking the position farthest from him, attempting to
imitate them in their cross-legged attitude.  My unhappy attempt to sit in this uncomfortable
attitude - uncomfortable at least to anybody unaccustomed to it - provokes a smile from His
Excellency, and he straightway orders an attendant to fetch in a chair and a small table; the
counsellors look on in silence, but they are evidently too deeply impressed with their own
dignity and holiness to commit themselves to any such display of levity as a smile.  A portion
of each dish is placed upon my table, together with a travellers' combination knife, fork and
spoon, a relic, doubtless, of the Governor's Parisian experience.  His Excellency having waited
and kept the counsellors waiting until these preparations are finished, motions for me to commence
eating, and then begins himself.  The repast consists of boiled mutton, rice pillau with curry,
mutton chops, hard-boiled eggs with lettuce, a pastry of sweetened rice-flour, musk-melons,
water-melons, several kinds of fruit, and for beverage glasses of iced sherbet; of all the
company I alone use knife, fork, and plates.  Before each Persian is laid a broad sheet of
bread; bending their heads over this they scoop up small handfuls of pillau, and toss it dextrously
into their mouths; scattering particles missing the expectantly opened receptacle fall back
on to the bread; this handy sheet of bread is used as a plate for placing a chop or anything
else on, as a table-napkin for wiping finger-tips between courses, and now and then a piece
is pulled off and eaten.  When the meal is finished, an attendant waits on each guest with
a brazen bowl, an ewer of water and a towel.  After the meal is over the Governor is no longer
handicapped by the religious prejudices of the mollahs, and leaving them he invites me into
the garden to see his two little boys go through their gymnastic exercises.  They are clever
little fellows of about seven and nine, respectively, with large black eyes and clear olive
complexions; all the time we are watching them the Governor's face is wreathed in a fond, parental
smile.  The exercises consist chiefly in climbing a thick rope dangling from a cross-beam.
After seeing me ride the bicycle the Governor wants me to try my hand at gymnastics, but being
nothing of a gymnast I respectfully beg to be excused.  While thus enjoying a pleasant hour
in the garden, a series of resounding thwacks are heard somewhere near by, and looking around
some intervening shrubs I observe a couple of far-rashes bastinadoing a culprit; seeing me
more interested in this novel method of administering justice than in looking at the youngsters
trying to climb ropes, the Governor leads the way thither.  The man, evidently a ryot, is lying
on his back, his feet are lashed together and held soles uppermost by means of an horizontal
pole, while the farrashes briskly belabor them with willow sticks.  The soles of the ryot's
feet are hard and thick as rhinoceros hide almost from habitually walking barefooted, and under
these conditions his punishment is evidently anything but severe.  The flagellation goes merrily
and uninterruptedly forward until fifty sticks about five feet long and thicker than a person's
thumb are broken over his feet without eliciting any signals of distress from the horny-hoofed
ryot, except an occasional sorrowful groan of "A-l-l-ah." He is then loosed and limps painfully
away, but it looks like a rather hypocritical limp, after all; fifty sticks, by the by, is
a comparatively light punishment, several hundred sometimes being broken at a single punishment.
Upon taking my leave the Governor kindly details a couple of soldiers to show me to the best
caravanserai, and to remain and protect me from the worry and annoyance of the crowds until
my departure from the city.  Arriving at the caravanserai, my valiant protectors undertake
to keep the following crowd from entering the courtyard; the crowd refuses to see the justice
of this arbitrary proceeding, and a regular pitched battle ensues in the gateway.  The caravanserai-jees
reinforce the soldiers, and by laying on vigorously with thick sticks, they finally put the
rabble to flight.  They then close the caravanserai gates until the excitement has subsided.
Khoi is a city of perhaps fifty thousand inhabitants, and among them all there is no one able
to speak a word of English.  Contemplating the surging mass of woolly-hatted Persians from
the bala-khana (balcony; our word is taken from the Persian), of the caravanserai, and hearing
nothing but unintelligible language, I detect myself unconsciously recalling the lines: " Oh
it was pitiful; in a whole city full--." It is the first large city I have visited without
finding somebody capable of speaking at least a few words of my own language. Locking the bicycle
up, I repair to the bazaar, my watchful and zealous attendants making the dust fly from the
shoulders of such unlucky wights whose eager inquisitiveness to obtain a good close look brings
them within the reach of their handy staves.  We are followed by immense crowds, a Ferenghi
being a rara avis in Khoi, and the fame of the wonderful asp- i (horse of iron) has spread
like wild-fire through the city.  In the bazaar I obtain Russian silver money, which is the
chief currency of the country as far east as Zendjan.  Partly to escape from the worrying crowds,
and partly to ascertain the way out next morning, as I intend making an early start, I get
the soldiers to take me outside the city wall and show me the Tabreez road.

A new caravanserai is in process of construction just outside the Tabreez gate, and I become
an interested spectator of the Persian mode of building the walls of a house; these of the
new caravanserai are nearly four feet thick.  Parallel walls of mud bricks are built up, leaving
an interspace of two feet or thereabouts; this is filled with stiff, well-worked mud, which
is dumped in by bucketsful and continually tramped by barefooted laborers; harder bricks are
used for the doorways and windows.  The bricklayer uses mud for mortar and his hands for a
trowel; he works without either level or plumb-line, and keeps up a doleful, melancholy chant
from morning to night.  The mortar is handed to him by an assistant by handsful; every workman
is smeared and spattered with mud from head to foot, as though glorying in covering themselves
with the trade-mark of their calling.

Strolling away from the busy builders we encounter a man the "water boy of the gang"-  bringing
a three-gallon pitcher of water from a spring half a mile away.  Being thirsty, the soldiers
shout for him to bring the pitcher.  Scarcely conceiving it possible that these humble mud-daubers
would be so wretchedly sanctimonious, I drink from the jar, much to the disgust of the poor
water-carrier, who forthwith empties the remainder away and returns with hurried trot to the
spring for a fresh supply; he would doubtless have smashed the vessel had it been smaller and
of lesser value.  Naturally I feel a trifle conscience-stricken at having caused him so much
trouble, for he is rather an elderly man, but the soldiers display no sympathy for him whatever,
apparently regarding an humble water-carrier as a person of small consequence anyhow, and they
laugh heartily at seeing him trotting briskly back half a mile for another load.  Had he taken
the first water after a Ferenghi had drank from it and allowed his fellow-workmen to unwittingly
partake of the same, it would probably have fared badly with the old fellow had they found
it out afterward.

Returning cityward we meet our friend, the moonshi bashi, looking me up; he is accompanied
by a dozen better-class Persians, scattering friends and acquaintances of his, whom he hag
collected during the day chiefly to show them my map of Persia; the mechanical beauty of the
bicycle and the apparent victory over the laws of equilibrium in riding it being, in the opinion
of the scholarly moonshi bashi, quite overshadowed by a map which shows Teheran and Khoi, and
doesn't show Stamboul, and which shows the whole broad expanse of Persia, and only small portions
of other countries.  This latter fact seems to have made a very deep impression upon the moonshi
banhi's mind; it appears to have filled him with the unalterable conviction that all other
countries are insignificant compared with Persia; in his own mind this patriotic person has
always believed this to be the case, but he is overjoyed at finding his belief verified - as
he fondly imagines - by the map of a Ferenghi.  Returning to the caravanserai, we find the
courtyard crowded with people, attracted by the fame of the bicycle.  The moonshi bashi straightway
ascends to the bala-khana, tenderly unfolds my map, and displays it for the inspection of the
gaping multitude below; while five hundred pairs of eyes gaze wonderingly upon it, without
having the slightest conception of what they are looking at, he proudly traces with his finger
the outlines of Persia.  It is one of the most amusing scenes imaginable; the moonshi bashi
and myself, surrounded by his little company of friends, occupying the bala-khana, proudly
displaying to a mixed crowd of fully five hundred people a shilling map as a thing to be wondered
at and admired.

After the departure of the moonshi bashi and his friends, by invitation I pay a visit of curiosity
to a company of dervishes (they themselves pronounce it "darwish") occupying one of the caravanserai
rooms.  There are eight of them lolling about in one small room; their appearance is disgusting
and yet interesting; they are all but naked in deference to the hot weather and to obtain a
little relief from the lively tenants of their clothing.  Prominent among their effects are
panther or leopard skins which they use as cloaks, small steel battle-axes, and huge spiked
clubs.  Their whole appearance is most striking and extraordinary; their long black hair is
dangling about their naked shoulders; they have the wild, haggard countenances of men whose
lives are being spent in debauchery and excesses; nevertheless, most of them have a decidedly
intellectual expression.  The Persian dervishes are a strange and interesting people; they
spend their whole lives in wandering from one end of the country to another, subsisting entirely
by mendicancy; yet their cry, instead of a beggar's supplication for charity, is "huk, huk"
(my right, my right); they affect the most wildly, picturesque and eccentric costumes, often
wearing nothing whatever but white cotton drawers and a leopard or panther skin thrown, carelessly
about their shoulders, besides which they carry a huge spiked club or steel battle-axe and
an alms-receiver; this latter is usually made of an oval gourd, polished and suspended on small
brass chains.  Sometimes they wear an embroidered conical cap decorated with verses from the
Koran, but often they wear no head-gear save the covering provided by nature.  The better-class
Persians have little respect for these wandering fakirs; but their wild, eccentric appearance
makes a deep impression upon the simple-hearted villagers, and the dervishes, whose wits are
sharpened by constant knocking about, live mostly by imposing on their good nature and credulity.
A couple of these worthies, arriving at a small village, affect their wildest and most grotesque
appearance and proceed to walk with stately, majestic tread through the streets, gracefully
brandishing their clubs or battle- axes, gazing fixedly at vacancy and reciting aloud from
the Koran with a peculiar and impressive intonation; they then walk about the village holding
out their alms-receiver and shouting "huk yah huk! huk yah huk " Half afraid of incurring their
displeasure, few of the villagers refuse to contribute a copper or portable cooked provisions.
Most dervishes are addicted to the intemperate use of opium, bhang (a preparation of Indian
hemp), arrack, and other baleful intoxicants, generally indulging to excess whenever they have
collected sufficient money; they are likewise credited with all manner of debauchery; it is
this that accounts for their pale, haggard appearance.  The following quotation from "In the
Land of the Lion and Sun," and which is translated from the Persian, is eloquently descriptive
of the general appearance of the dervish: The dervish had the dullard air, The maddened look,
the vacant stare, That bhang and contemplation give.  He moved, but did not seem to live; His
gaze was savage, and yet sad; What we should call stark, staring mad. All down his back, his
tangled hair Flowed wild, unkempt; his head was bare; A leopard's skin was o'er him flung;
Around his neck huge beads were hung, And in his hand-ah! there's the rub- He carried a portentous
club.  After visiting the dervishes I spend an hour in an adjacent tchai- khan drinking tea
with my escort and treating them to sundry well-deserved kalians.  Among the rabble collected
about the doorway is a half-witted youngster of about ten or twelve summers with a suit of
clothes consisting of a waist string and a piece of rag about the size of an ordinary pen-
wiper.  He is the unfortunate possessor of a stomach disproportionately large and which intrudes
itself upon other people's notice like a prize pumpkin at an agricultural fair.  This youth's
chief occupation appears to be feeding melon-rinds to a pet sheep belonging to the tchai-khan
and playing a resonant tattoo on his abnormally obtrusive paunch with the palms of his hands.
This produces a hollow, echoing sound like striking an inflated bladder with a stuffed club;
and considering that the youth also introduces a novel and peculiar squint into the performance,
it is a remarkably edifying spectacle.  Supper-time coming round, the soldiers show the way
to an eating place, where we sup off delicious bazaar-kabobs, one of the most tasteful preparations
of mutton one could well imagine. The mutton is minced to the consistency of paste and properly
seasoned; it is then spread over flat iron skewers and grilled over a glowing charcoal fire;
when nicely browned they are laid on a broad pliable sheet of bread in lieu of a plate, and
the skewers withdrawn, leaving before the customer a dozen long flat fingers of nicely browned
kabobs reposing side by side on the cake of wheaten bread-a most appetizing and digestible
dish.  Returning to the caravanserai, I dismiss my faithful soldiers with a suitable present,
for which they loudly implore the blessings of Allah on my head, and for the third or fourth
time impress upon the caravanseraijes the necessity of making my comfort for the night his
special consideration. They fill that humble individual's mind with grandiloquent ideas of
my personal importance by dwelling impressively on the circumstance of my having eaten with
the Governor, a fact they likewise have lost no opportunity of heralding throughout the bazaar
during the afternoon.  The caravanserai-jee spreads quilts and a pillow for me on the open
bala-khana, and I at once prepare for sleep.  A gentle-eyed and youthful seyud wearing an enormous
white turban and a flowing gown glides up to my couch and begins plying me with questions.
The soldiers noticing this as they are about leaving the court-yard favor him with a torrent
of imprecations for venturing to disturb my repose; a score of others yell fiercely at him
in emulation of the soldiers, causing the dreamy-eyed youth to hastily scuttle away again.
Nothing is now to be heard all around but the evening prayers of the caravanserai guests; listening
to the multitudinous cries of Allah-il-Allah around me, I fall asleep.  About midnight I happen
to wake again; everything is quiet, the stars are shining brightly down into the court-yard,
and a small grease lamp is flickering on the floor near my head, placed there by the caravan-serai-jee
after I had fallen asleep.  The past day has been one full of interesting experiences; from
the time of leaving the garden of Mohammed Ali Khan this morning in company with the moonshi
bashi, until lulled to sleep three hours ago by the deep-voiced prayers of fanatical Mohammedans
the day has proved a series of surprises, and I seem more than ever before to have been the
sport and plaything of fortune; however, if the fickle goddess never used anybody worse than
she has used me to-day there would be little cause for complaining.

As though to belie their general reputation of sanctimoniousness, a tall, stately seyud voluntarily
poses as my guide and protector en route through the awakening bazaar toward the Tabreez gate
next morning, cuffing obtrusive youngsters right and left, and chiding grown-up people whenever
their inordinate curiosity appeals to him as being aggressive and impolite; one can only account
for this strange condescension on the part of this holy man by attributing it to the marvellous
civilizing and levelling influence of the bicycle.  Arriving outside the gate, the crowd of
followers are well repaid for their trouble by watching my progress for a couple of miles down
a broad straight roadway admirably kept and shaded with thrifty chenars or plane-trees.  Wheeling
down this pleasant avenue I encounter mule-trains, the animals festooned with strings of merrily
jingling bells, and camels gayly caparisoned, with huge, nodding tassels on their heads and
pack-saddles, and deep-toned bells of sheet iron swinging at their throats and sides; likewise
the omnipresent donkey heavily laden with all manner of village produce for the Khoi market.
My road after leaving the avenue winds around the end of projecting hills, and for a dozen
miles traverses a gravelly plain that ascends with a scarcely perceptible gradient to the summit
of a ridge; it then descends by a precipitous trail into the valley of Lake Ooroomiah. Following
along the northern shore of the lake I find fairly level roads, but nothing approaching continuous
wheeling, owing to wash-outs and small streams leading from a range of mountains near by to
the left, between which and the briny waters of the lake my route leads.  Lake Ooroomiah is
somewhere near the size of Salt Lake, Utah, and its waters are so heavily impregnated with
saline matter that one can lie down on the surface and indulge in a quiet, comfortable snooze;
at least, this is what I am told by a missionary at Tabreez who says he has tried it himself;
and even allowing for the fact that missionaries are but human after all and this gentleman
hails originally from somewhere out West, there is no reason for supposing the statement at
all exaggerated.  Had I heard of this beforehand I should certainly have gone far enough out
of my course to try the experiment of being literally rocked on the cradle of the deep.  Near
midday I make a short circuit to the north, to investigate the edible possibilities of a village
nestling in a cul-de-sac of the mountain foot-hills.  The resident Khan turns out to be a regular
jovial blade, sadly partial to the flowing bowl.  When I arrive he is perseveringly working
himself up to the proper pitch of booziness for enjoying his noontide repast by means of copious
potations of arrack; he introduces himself as Hassan Khan, offers me arrack, and cordially
invites me to dine with him.  After dinner, when examining my revolver, map, etc., the Khan
greatly admires a photograph of myself as a peculiar proof of Ferenghi skill in producing a
person's physiognomy, and blandly asks me to "make him one of himself," doubtless thinking
that a person capable of riding on a wheel is likewise possessed of miraculous all 'round abilities.

The Khan consumes not less than a pint of raw arrack during the dinner hour, and, not unnaturally,
finds himself at the end a trifle funny and venturesome.  When preparing to take my departure
he proposes that I give him a ride on the bicycle; nothing loath to humor him a little in return
for his hospitality, I assist him to mount, and wheel him around for a few minutes, to the
unconcealed delight of the whole population, who gather about to see the astonishing spectacle
of their Khan riding on the Ferenghi's wonderful asp-i-awhan.  The Khan being short and pudgy
is unable to reach the pedals, and the confidence-inspiring fumes of arrack lead him to announce
to the assembled villagers that if his legs were only a little longer he could certainly go
it alone, a statement that evidently fills the simple-minded ryots with admiration for the
Khan's alleged newly-discovered abilities.

The road continues level but somewhat loose and sandy; the scenery around becomes strikingly
beautiful, calling up thoughts of "Arabian Nights " entertainments, and the genii and troubadours
of Persian song.  The bright, blue waters of Lake Ooroomiah stretch away southward to where
the dim outlines of mountains, a hundred miles away, mark the southern shore; rocky islets
at a lesser distance, and consequently more pronounced in character and contour, rear their
jagged and picturesque forms sheer from the azure surface of the liquid mirror, the face of
which is unruffled by a single ripple and unspecked by a single animate or inanimate object;
the beach is thickly incrusted with salt, white and glistening in the sunshine; the shore land
is mingled sand and clay of a deep-red color, thus presenting the striking and beautiful phenomena
of a lake shore painted red, white, and blue by the inimitable hand of nature.  A range of
rugged gray mountains run parallel with the shore but a few miles away; crystal streams come
bubbling lake-ward over pebble-bedded channels from sources high up the mountain slopes; villages,
hidden amid groves of spreading jujubes and graceful chenars, nestle here and there in the
rocky gateways of ravines; orchards and vineyards are scattered about the plain.  They are
imprisoned within gloomy mud walls, but, like living creatures struggling for their liberty,
the fruit-laden branches extend beyond their prison-walls, and the graceful tendrils of the
vines find their way through the sun-cracks and fissures of decay, and trail over the top as
though trying to cover with nature's charitable veil the unsightly works of man; and all is
arched over with the cloudless Persian sky.

Beaming the roads of this picturesque region in search of victims is a most persistent and
pugnacious species of fly; rollicking as the blue- bottle, and the veritable double of the
green-head horsefly of the Western prairies, he combines the dash and impetuosity of the one
with the ferocity and persistency of the other; but he is happily possessed of one redeeming
feature not possessed by either of the above-mentioned and well-known insects of the Western
world.  When either of these settles himself affectionately on the end of a person's nose,
and the person, smarting under the indignity, hits himself viciously on that helpless and unoffending
portion of his person, as a general thing it doesn't hurt the fly, simply because the fly doesn't
wait long enough to be hurt; but the Lake Ooroomiah fly is a comparatively guileless insect,
and quietly remains where he alights until it suits one's convenience to forcibly remove him;
for this redeeming quality I bespeak for him the warmest encomiums of fly-harassed humans everywhere.
Dusk is settling down over the broad expanse of lake, plain, and mountain when I encounter
a number of villagers taking donkey-loads of fruit and almonds from an orchard to their village.
They cordially invite me to accompany them and accept their hospitality for the night.  They
are travelling toward a large area of walled orchards but a short distance to the north, and
I naturally expect to find their village located among them; so, not knowing how far ahead
the next village may be, I gladly accept their kindly invitation, and follow along behind.
It gets dusky, then duskier, then dark; the stars come peeping out thicker and thicker, and
still I am trundling with these people slowly along up the dry and stone-strewn channel of
spring-time freshets, expecting every minute to reach their village, only to be as often disappointed,
for over an hour, during which we travel out of my proper course perhaps four miles.  Finally,
after crossing several little streams, or rather; one stream several times, we arrive at our
destination, and I am installed, as the guest of a leading villager, beneath a sort of open
porch attached to the house. Here, as usual, I quickly become the centre of attraction for
a wondering and admiring audience of half-naked villagers.  The villager whose guest I become
brings forth bread and cheese, some bring me grapes, others newly gathered almonds, and then
they squat around in the dim religious light of primitive grease-lamps and watch me feed, with
the same wondering interest and the same unconcealed delight with which youthful Londoners
at the Zoological Gardens regard a pet monkey devouring their offerings of nuts and ginger-snaps.
I scarcely know what to make of these particular villagers; they seem strangely childlike and
unsophisticated, and moreover, perfectly delighted at my unexpected presence in their midst.
It is doubtful whether their unimportant little village among the foothills was ever before
visited by a Ferenghi; consequently I am to them a rara avis to be petted and admired.  I am
inclined to think them a village of Yezeeds or devilworshippers; the Yezeeds believe that Allah,
being by nature kind and merciful, would not injure anybody under any circumstances, consequently
there is nothing to be gained by worshipping him.  Sheitan (Satan), on the contrary, has both
the power and the inclination to do people harm, therefore they think it politic to cultivate
his good-will and to pursue a policy of conciliation toward him by worshipping him and revering
his name.  Thus they treat the name of Satan with even greater reverence than Christians and
Mohammedans treat the name of God.  Independent of their hospitable treatment of myself, these
villagers seem but little advanced in their personal habits above mere animals; the women are
half- naked, and seem possessed of little more sense of shame than our original ancestors before
the fall.  There is great talk of kardash among them in reference to myself.  They are advocating
hospitality of a nature altogether too profound for the consideration of a modest and discriminating
Ferenghi - hospitable intentions that I deem it advisable to dissipate at once by affecting
deep, dense ignorance of what they are discussing.

In the morning they search the village over to find the wherewithal to prepare me some tea
before my departure.  Eight miles from the village I discover that four miles forward yesterday
evening, instead of backward, would have brought me to a village containing a caravanserai.
I naturally feel a trifle chagrined at the mistake of having journeyed eight unnecessary miles,
but am, perhaps, amply repaid by learning something of the utter simplicity of the villagers
before their character becomes influenced by intercourse with more enlightened people.

My course now leads over a stony plain.  The wheeling is reasonably good, and I gradually draw
away from the shore of Lake Ooroomiah.  Melon- gardens and vineyards are frequently found here
and there across the plain; the only entrance to the garden is a hole about three feet by four
in the high mud wall, and this is closed by a wooden door; an arm- hole is generally found
in the wall to enable the owner to reach the fastening from the outside.  Investigating one
of these fastenings at a certain vineyard I discover a lock so primitive that it must have
been invented by prehistoric man.  A flat, wooden bar or bolt is drawn into a mortise-like
receptacle of the wall, open at the top; the man then daubs a handful of wet clay over it;
in a few minutes the clay hardens and the door is fast.  This is not a burglar-proof lock,
certainly, and is only depended upon for a fastening during the temporary absence of the owner
in the day-time.  During the summer the owner and family not infrequently live in the garden
altogether.  During the forenoon the bicycle is the innocent cause of two people being thrown
from the backs of their respective steeds.  One is a man carelessly sitting sidewise on his
donkey; the meek-eyed jackass suddenly makes a pivot of his hind feet and wheels round, and
the rider's legs as suddenly shoot upward.  He frantically grips his fiery, untamed steed around
the neck as he finds himself over- balanced, and comes up with a broad grin and an irrepressible
chuckle of merriment over the unwonted spirit displayed by his meek and humble charger, that
probably had never scared at anything before in all its life.  The other case is unfortunately
a lady whose horse literally springs from beneath her, treating her to a clean tumble.  The
poor lady sings out "Allah!" rather snappishly at finding herself on the ground, so snappishly
that it leaves little room for doubt of its being an imprecation; but her rude, unsympathetic
attendants laugh right merrily at seeing her floundering about in the sand; fortunately, she
is uninjured.  Although Turkish and Persian ladies ride a la Amazon, a position that is popularly
supposed to be several times more secure than side-saddles, it is a noticeable fact that they
seem perfectly helpless, and come to grief the moment their steed shies at anything or commences
capering about with anything like violence.

On a portion of road that is unridable from sand I am captured by a rowdyish company of donkey-drivers,
returning with empty fruit-baskets from Tabreez.  They will not be convinced that the road
is unsuitable, and absolutely refuse to let me go without seeing the bicycle ridden. After
detaining me until patience on my part ceases to be a virtue, and apparently as determined
for their purpose as ever, I am finally compelled to produce the convincing argument with five
chambers and rifled barrel. These crowds of donkey-men seem inclined to be rather lawless,
and scarcely a day passes lately but what this same eloquent argument has to be advanced in
the interest of individual liberty.  Fortunately the mere sight of a revolver in the hands
of a Ferenghi has the magical effect of transforming the roughest and most overbearing gang
of ryots into peaceful, retiring citizens.  The plain I am now traversing is a broad, gray-looking
area surrounded by mountains, and stretching away eastward from Lake Ooroomiah for seventy-five
miles.  It presents the same peculiar aspect of Persian scenery nearly everywhere-a general
verdureless and unproductive country, with the barren surface here and there relieved by small
oases of cultivated fields and orchards.  The villages being built solely of mud, and consequently
of the same color as the general surface, are undistinguishable from a distance, unless rendered
conspicuous by trees.  Laboring under a slightly mistaken impression concerning the distance
to Tabreez, I push ahead in the expectation of reaching there to-night; the plain becomes more
generally cultivated; the caravan routes from different directions come to a focus on broad
trails leading into the largest city in Persia, and which is the great centre of distribution
for European goods arriving by caravan to Trebizond.  Coming to a large, scattering village,
some time in the afternoon, I trundle leisurely through the lanes inclosed between lofty and
unsightly mud walls thinking I have reached the suburbs of Tabreez; finding my mistake upon
emerging on the open plain again, I am yet again deceived by another spreading village, and
about six o'clock find myself wheeling eastward across an uncultivated stretch of uncertain
dimensions. The broad caravan trail is worn by the traffic of centuries considerably below
the level of the general surface, and consists of a number of narrow, parallel trails, along
which swarms of donkeys laden with produce from tributary villages daily plod, besides the
mule and camel caravans from a greater distance.  These narrow beaten paths afford excellent
wheeling, and I bowl along quite briskly.  As one approaches Tabreez, the country is found
traversed by an intricate network of irrigating ditches, some of them works of considerable
magnitude; the embankments on either side of the road are frequently high enough to obscure
a horseman.  These works are almost as old as the hills themselves, for the cultivation of
the Tabreez plain has remained practically an unchanged system for three thousand years, as
though, like the ancient laws of the Medes and Persians, it also were made unchangeable.

About dusk I fall in with another riotous crowd of homeward-bound fruit carriers, who, not
satisfied at seeing me ride past, want to stop me; one of them rushes up behind, grabs my package
attached to the rear baggage-carrier, and nearly causes an overthrow; frightening him off,
I spurt ahead, barely escaping two or three donkey cudgels hurled at me in pure wantonness,
born of the courage inspired by a majority of twenty to one.  There is no remedy for these
unpleasant occurrences except travelling under escort, and the avoiding serious trouble or
accident becomes a matter for every-day congratulation.  At eighteen miles from the last village
it becomes too dark to remain in the saddle without danger of headers, and a short trundle
brings me, not to Tabreez even now, but to another village eight miles nearer.  Here there
is a large caravanserai.  Near the entrance is a hole-in-the-wall sort of a shop wherein I
espy a man presiding over a tempting assortment of cantaloupes, grapes, and pears.  The whirligig
of fortune has favored me today with tea, blotting-paper ekmek, and grapes for breakfast; later
on two small watermelons, and at 2 P.M. blotting-paper ekmek and an infinitesimal quantity
of yaort (now called mast).  It is unnecessary to add that I arrive in this village with an
appetite that will countenance no unnecessary delay.  Two splendid ripe cantaloupes, several
fine bunches of grapes, and some pears are devoured immediately, with a reckless disregard
of consequences, justifiable only on the grounds of semi-starvation and a temporary barbarism
born of surrounding circumstances.  After this savage attack on the maivah-jee's stock, I learn
that the village contains a small tchai-khan; repairing thither I stretch myself on the divan
for an hour's repose, and afterward partake of tea, bread, and peaches.  At bed-time the khan-jee
makes me up a couch on the divan, locks the door inside, blows out the light, and then, afraid
to occupy the same building with such a dangerous-looking individual as myself, climbs to the
roof through a hole in the wall.  Eager villagers carry both myself and wheel across a bridge-less
stream upon resuming my journey to Tabreez next morning; the road is level and ridable, though
a trifle deep with dust and sand, and in an hour I am threading the suburban lanes of the city.
Along these eight miles I certainly pass not less than five hundred pack- donkeys en route
to the Tabreez market with everything, from baskets of the choicest fruit in the world to huge
bundles of prickly camel-thorn and sacks of tezek for fuel.  No animals in all the world, I
should think, stand in more urgent need of the kindly offices of the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals than the thousands of miserable donkeys engaged in supplying Tabreez
with fuel; their brutal drivers seem utterly callous and indifferent to the pitiful sufferings
of these patient toilers.  Numbers of instances are observed this morning where the rough,
ill-fitting breech-straps and ropes have literally seesawed their way through the skin and
deep into the flesh, and are still rasping deeper and deeper every day, no attempt whatever
being made to remedy this evil; on the contrary, their pitiless drivers urge them on by prodding
the raw sores with sharpened sticks, and by belaboring them unceasingly with an instrument
of torture in the shape of whips with six inches of ordinary trace-chain for a lash.  As if
the noble army of Persian donkey drivers were not satisfied with the refinement of physical
cruelty to which they have attained, they add insult to injury by talking constantly to their
donkeys while driving them along, and accusing them of all the crimes in the calendar and of
every kind of disreputable action.  Fancy the bitter sense of humiliation that must overcome
the proud, haughty spirit of a mouse-colored jackass at being prodded in an open wound with
a sharp stick and hearing himself at the same time thus insultingly addressed: "Oh, thou son
of a burnt father and murderer of thine own mother, would that I myself had died rather than
my father should have lived to see me drive such a brute as thou art." yet this sort of talk
is habitually indulged in by the barbarous drivers.  While young, the donkeys' nostrils are
slit open clear up to the bridge-bone; this is popularly supposed among the Persians to be
an improvement upon nature in that it gives them greater freedom of respiration.  Instead of
the well known clucking sound used among ourselves as a persuasive, the Persian makes a sound
not unlike the bleating of a sheep; a stranger, being within hearing and out of sight of a
gang of donkey drivers in a hurry to reach their destination, would be more likely to imagine
himself in the vicinity of a flock of sheep than anything else.  As is usually the case, a
volunteer guide bobs serenely up immediately I enter the city, and I follow confidently along,
thinking he is piloting me to the English consulate, as I have requested; instead of this he
steers me into the custom-house and turns me over to the officials.  These worthy gentlemen,
after asking me to ride around the custom-house yard, pretend to become altogether mystified
about what they ought to do with the bicycle, and in the absence of any precedent to govern
themselves by, finally conclude among themselves that the proper thing would be to confiscate
it.  Obtaining a guide to show me to the residence of Mr. Abbott, the English consul-general,
that energetic representative of Her Majesty's government smiles audibly at the thoughts of
their mystification, and then writes them a letter couched in terms of humorous reproachfulness,
asking them what in the name of Allah and the Prophet they mean by confiscating a traveller's
horse, his carriage, his camel, his everything on legs and wheels consolidated into the beautiful
vehicle with which he is journeying to Teheran to see the Shah, and all around the world to
see everybody and everything? - ending by telling them that he never in all his consular experiences
heard of a proceeding so utterly atrocious.  He sends the letter by the consulate dragoman,
who accompanies me back to the custom-house.  The officers at once see and acknowledge their
mistake; but meanwhile they have been examining the bicycle, and some of them appear to have
fallen violently in love with it; they yield it up, but it is with apparent reluctance, and
one of the leading officials takes me into the stable, and showing me several splendid horses
begs me to take my choice from among them and leave the bicycle behind.

Mr. and Mrs. Abbott cordially invite me to become their guest while staying at Tabreez.  To-day
is Thursday, and although my original purpose was only to remain here a couple of days, the
innovation from roughing it on the road, to roast duck for dinner, and breakfast in one's own
room of a morning, coupled with warnings against travelling on the Sabbath and invitations
to dinner from the American missionaries, proves a sufficient inducement for me to conclude
to stay till Monday, satisfied at the prospect of reaching Teheran in good season.  It is now
something less than four hundred miles to Teheran, with the assurance of better roads than
I have yet had in Persia, for the greater portion of the distance; besides this, the route
is now a regular post route with chapar- khanas (post-houses) at distances of four to five
farsakhs apart.  On Friday night Tabreez experienced two slight shocks of an earthquake, and
in the morning Mr. Abbott points out several fissures in the masonry of the consulate, caused
by previous visitations of the same undesirable nature; the earthquakes here seem to resemble
the earthquakes of California in that they come reasonably mild and often.  The place likewise
awakens memories of the Golden State in another and more appreciative particular nowhere, save
perhaps in California, does one find such delicious grapes, peaches, and pears as at ancient
Taurus, a specialty for which it has been justly celebrated from time immemorial.  On Saturday
I take dinner with Mr. Oldfather, one of the missionaries, and in the evening we all pay a
visit to Mr. Whipple and family, the consulate link-boy lighting the way before us with a huge
cylindrical lantern of transparent oiled muslin called a farnooze.  These lanterns are always
carried after night before people of wealth or social consequence, varying in size according
to the person's idea of their own social importance.  The size of the farmooze is supposed
to be an index of the social position of the person or family, so that one can judge something
of what sort of people are coming down the street, even on the darkest night, whenever the
attendant link-boy heaves in sight with the farnooze.  Some of these social indicators are
the size of a Portland cement barrel, even in Persia; it is rather a smile-provoking thought
to think what tremendous farnoozes would be seen lighting up the streets on gloomy evenings,
were this same custom prevalent among ourselves; few of us but what could call to memory people
whose farnoozes would be little smaller than brewery mash-tubs, and which would have to be
carried between six-foot link-boys on a pole.  Ameer-i-Nazan, the Valiat or heir apparent to
the throne, and at present nominal governor of Tabreez, has seen a tricycle in Teheran, one
having been imported some time ago by an English gentleman in the Shah's service; but the fame
of the bicycle excites his curiosity and he sends an officer around to the consulate to examine
and report upon the difference between bicycle and tricycle, and also to discover and explain
the modus operandi of maintaining one's balance on two wheels. The officer returns with the
report that my machine won't even stand up, without somebody holding it, and that nobody but
a Ferenghi who is in league with Sheitan, could possibly hope to ride it.  Perhaps it is this
alarming report, and the fear of exciting the prejudices of the mollahs and fanatics about
him, by having anything to do with a person reported on trustworthy authority to be in league
with His Satanic Majesty, that prevents the Prince from requesting me to ride before him in
Tabreez; but I have the pleasure of meeting him at Hadji Agha on the evening of the first day
out.  Mr. Whippie kindly makes out an itinerary of the villages and chapar-khanas I shall pass
on the journey to Teheran; the superintendent of the Tabreez station of the Indo-European Telegraph
Company voluntarily telegraphs to the agents at Miana and Zendjan when to expect rne, and also
to Teheran; Mrs. Abbott fills my coat pockets with roast chicken, and thus equipped and prepared,
at nine o'clock on Monday morning I am ready for the home-stretch of the season, before going
into winter quarters.

The Turkish consul-general, a corpulent gentleman whose avoirdupois I mentally jot down at
four hundred pounds, comes around with several others to see me take a farewell spin on the
bricked pavements of the consulate garden.  Like all persons of four hundred pounds weight,
the Effendi is a good-natured, jocose individual, and causes no end of merriment by pretending
to be anxious to take a spin on the bicycle himself, whereas it requires no inconsiderable
exertion on his part to waddle from his own residence hard by into the consulate.  Three soldiers
are detailed from the consulate staff to escort me through the city; en route through the streets
the pressure of the rabble forces one unlucky individual into one of the dangerous narrow holes
that abound in the streets, up to his neck; the crowd yell with delight at seeing him tumble
in, and nobody stops to render him any assistance or to ascertain whether he is seriously hurt.
Soon a poor old ryot on a donkey, happens amid the confusion to cross immediately in front
of the bicycle; whack! whack! whack! come the ready staves of the zealous and vigilant soldiers
across the shoulders of the offender; the crowd howls with renewed delight at this, and several
hilarious hobble-de-hoys endeavor to shove one of their companions in the place vacated by
the belabored ryot, in the hope that he likewise will come in for the visitation of the soldiers'
o'er- willing staves.  The broad suburban road, where the people have been fondly expecting
to see the bicycle light out in earnest for Teheran at a marvellous rate of speed, is found
to be nothing less than a bed of loose sand and stones, churned up by the narrow hoofs of multitudinous
donkeys. Quite a number of better class Persians accompany me some distance further on horseback;
when taking their departure, a gentleman on a splendid Arab charger, shakes hands and says:
"Good-by, my dear," which apparently is all the English he knows.  He has evidently kept his
eyes and ears open when happening about the English consulate, and the happy thought striking
him at the moment, he repeats, parrot-like, this term of endearment, all unsuspicious of the
ridiculousness of its application in the present case.

For several miles the road winds tortuously over a range of low, stony hills, the surface being
generally loose and unridable.  The water-supply of Tabreez is conducted from these hills by
an ancient system of kanaats or underground water-ditches; occasionally one comes to a sloping
cavern leading down to the water; on descending to the depth of from twenty to forty feet,
a small, rapidly-coursing stream of delicious cold water is found, well rewarding the thirsty
traveller for his trouble; sometimes these cavernous openings are simply sloping, bricked archways,
provided with steps.  The course of these subterranean water-ways can always be traced their
entire length by uniform mounds of earth, piled up at short intervals on the surface; each
mound represents the excavations from a perpendicular shaft, at the bottom of which the crystal
water can be seen coursing along toward the city; they are merely man-holes for the purpose
of readily cleaning out the channel of the kanaat.  The water is conducted underground, chiefly
to avoid the waste by evaporation and absorption in surface ditches.  These kanaats are very
extensive affairs in many places; the long rows of surface mounds are visible, stretching for
mile after mile across the plain as far as eye can penetrate, or until losing themselves among
the foot-hills of some distant mountain chain; they were excavated in the palmy days of the
Persian Empire to bring pure mountain streams to the city fountains and to irrigate the thirsty
plain; it is in the interest of self-preservation that the Persians now keep them from falling
into decay.  At noon, while seated on a grassy knoll discussing the before-mentioned contents
of my pockets, I am favored with a free exhibition of what a physical misunderstanding is like
among the Persian ryots.  Two companies of katir-jees happen to get into an altercation about
something, and from words it gradually develops into blows; not blows of the fist, for they
know nothing of fisticuffs, but they belabor each other vigorously with their long, thick donkey
persuaders, sticks that are anything but small and willowy; it is an amusing spectacle, and
seated on the commanding knoll nibbling "drum-sticks" and wish-bones, I can almost fancy myself
a Roman of old, eating peanuts and watching a gladiatorial contest in the amphitheatre. The
similitude, however, is not at all striking, for thick as are their quarter-staffs the Persian
ryots don't punish each other very severely. Whenever one of them works himself up to a fighting-pitch,
he commences belaboring one of the others on the back, apparently always striking so that the
blow produces a maximum of noise with a minimum of punishment; the person thus attacked never
ventures to strike back, but retreats under the blows until his assailant's rage becomes spent
and he desists. Meanwhile the war of words goes merrily forward; perchance in a few minutes
the person recently attacked suddenly becomes possessed of a certain amount of rage-inspired
courage, and he in turn commences a vigorous assault upon somebody, probably his late assailant;
this worthy, having become a little cooler, has mysteriously lost his late pugnacity, and now
likewise retreats without once attempting to raise his own stick in self-defence.  The lower
and commercial class Persians are pretty quarrelsome among themselves, but they quarrel chiefly
with their tongues; when they fight without sticks it is an ear-pulling, clothes-tugging, wrestling
sort of a scuffle, which continues without greater injury than a torn garment until they become
exhausted if pretty evenly matched, or until separated by bystanders; they never, never hurt
each other unless they are intoxicated, when they sometimes use their short swords; there is
no intoxication, except in private drinking-parties.

CHAPTER XX.

TABREEZ TO TEHERAN.

The wheeling improves in the afternoon, and alongside my road runs a bit of civilization in
the shape of the splendid iron poles of the Indo-European Telegraph Company.  Half a dozen
times this afternoon I become the imaginary enemy of a couple of cavalrymen travelling in the
same direction as myself; they swoop down upon me from the rear at a charging gallop, valiantly
whooping and brandishing their Martini-Henrys; when they arrive within a few yards of my rear
wheel they swerve off on either side and rein their fiery chargers up, allowing me to forge
ahead; they amuse themselves by repeating this interesting performance over and over again.
Being usually a good rider, the dash and courage of the Persian cavalryman is something extraordinary
in time of peace; no more brilliant and intrepid cavalry charge on a small scale could be well
imagined than I have witnessed several times this afternoon.  But upon the outbreak of serious
hostilities the average warrior in the Shah's service suddenly becomes filled with a wild,
pathetic yearning after the peaceful and honorable calling of a katir-jee, an uncontrollable
desire to become a humble, contented tiller of the soil, or handy-man about a tchaikhan, anything,
in fact, of a strictly peaceful character.  Were I a hostile trooper with a red jacket, and
a general warlike appearance, and the bicycle a machine gun, though our whooping, charging
cavalrymen were twenty instead of two, they would only charge once, and that would be with
their horses' crimson-dyed tails streaming in the breeze toward me. The Shah's soldiers are
gentle, unwarlike creatures at heart; there are probably no soldiers in the whole world that
would acquit themselves less creditably in a pitched battle; they are, nevertheless, not without
certain soldierly qualities, well adapted to their country; the cavalrymen are very good riders,
and although the infantry does not present a very encouraging appearance on the parade-ground,
they would meander across five hundred miles of country on half rations of blotting-paper ekmek
without any vigorous remonstrance, and wait uncomplainingly for their pay until the middle
of next year.  About five o'clock I arrive at Hadji Agha, a large village forty miles from
Tabreez; here, as soon as it is ascertained that I intend remaining over night, I am actually
beset by rival khan-jees, who commence jabbering and gesticulating about the merits of their
respective establishments, like hotel-runners in the United States; of course they are several
degrees less rude and boisterous, and more considerate of one's personal inclinations than
their prototypes in America, but they furnish yet another proof that there is nothing new under
the sun.  Hadji Agha is a village of seyuds, or descendants of the Prophet, these and the mollahs
being the most bigoted class in Persia; when I drop into the tchai-khan for a glass or two
of tea, the sanctimonious old joker with henna-tinted beard and finger-nails, presiding over
the samovar, rolls up his eyes in holy horror at the thoughts of waiting upon an unhallowed
Ferenghi, and it requires considerable pressure from the younger and less fanatical men to
overcome his disinclination; he probably breaks the glass I drank from after my departure.

About dusk the Valiat and his courtiers arrive on horseback from Tabreez; the Prince immediately
seeks my quarters at the khan, and, after examining the bicycle, wants me to take it out and
ride; it is getting rather dark, however, so I put him off till morning; he remains and smokes
cigarettes with me for half an hour, and then retires to the residence of the local Khan for
the night.  The Prince seems an amiable, easy-going sort of a person; while in my company his
countenance is wreathed in a pleasant smile continually, and I fancy he habitually wears that
same expression. His youthful courtiers seem frivolous young bloods, putting in most of the
half-hour in showing me their accomplishments in the way of making floating rings of their
cigarette smoke.  Later in the evening I stroll around to the tchai-khan again; it is the gossiping-place
of the village, and I find our sanctimonious seyuds indulging in uncomplimentary comments regarding
the Yaliat's conduct in hobnobbing with the Ferenghi; how bigoted these Persians are, and yet
how utterly destitute of principle and moral character.  In the morning the Prince sends me
an invitation to come and drink tea with them before starting out; he bears the same perennial
smile as yesterday evening.  Although he is generally understood to be completely under the
influence of the fanatical and bigoted seyuds and mollahs, who are strictly opposed to the
Ferenghi and the Fereughi's ideas of progress and civilization, he seems withal an amiable,
well-disposed young man, whom one could scarce help liking personally, arid feeling sorry at
the troubles in store for him ahead.  He has an elder brother, the Zil-es-Sultan, now governor
of the Southern Provinces; but not being the son of a royal princess, the Shah has nominated
Ameer-i-Nazan as his successor to the throne.  The Zil-es-Sultan, although of a somewhat cruel
disposition, has proved himself a far more capable and energetic person than the Valiat, and
makes no secret of the fact that he intends disputing the succession with his brother, by force
of arms if necessary, at the Shah's demise.  He has, so at least it is currently reported,
had his sword-blade engraved with the grim inscription, "This is for the Valiat's head," and
has jocularly notified his inoffensive brother of the fact. The Zil-es-Sultau belongs to the
party of progress; recks little of the opinions of priests and fanatics, is fond of Englishmen
and European improvements, and keeps a kennel of English bull dogs.  Should he become Shah
of Persia, Baron Reuter's grand scheme of railways and commercial regeneration, which was foiled
by the fanaticism of the seyuds and mollahs soon after the Shah's visit to England, may yet
come to something, and the railroad rails now rusting in the swamps of the Caspian littoral
may, after all, form part of a railway between the seaboard and the capital.  The road for
a short distance east of Hadji Agha is splendid wheeling, and the Prince and his courtiers
accompany me for some two miles, finding much amusement in racing with me whenever the road
permits of spurting.  The country now develops into undulating upland, uncultivated and stone-strewn,
except where an occasional stream, affording irrigating facilities, has rendered possible the
permanent maintenance of a mud village and a circumscribed area of wheat-fields, melon-gardens,
and vineyards.  No sooner does one find himself launched upon the comparatively well-travelled
post-route than a difference becomes manifest in the character of the people.  Commercially
speaking, the Persian is considerably more of a Jew than the Jew himself, and along a route
frequented by travellers, the person possessing some little knowledge of the thievish ways
of the country and of current prices, besides having plenty of small change, finds these advantages
a matter for congratulation almost every hour of the day.  The proprietor of a wretched little
mud hovel, solemnly presiding over a few thin sheets of bread, a jar of rancid, hirsute butter,
and a dozen half-ripe melons, affects a glum, sorrowful expression to think that he should
happen to be without small change, and consequently obliged to accept the Hamsherri's fifty
kopec piece for provisions of one-tenth the value; but the mysterious frequency of this same
state of affairs and accompanying sorrowful expression, taken in connection with the actual
plenitude of small change in Persia, awakens suspicions even in the mind of the most confiding
and uninitiated person.  A peculiar system of commercial mendicancy obtains among the proprietors
of melon and cucumber gardens alongside the road of this particular part of the country; observing
a likely-looking traveller approaching, they come running to him with a melon or cucumber that
they know to be utterly worthless, and beg the traveller to accept it as a present; delighted,
perhaps with their apparent simple-hearted hospitality, and, moreover, sufficiently thirsty
to appreciate the gift of a melon, the unsuspecting wayfarer tenders the crafty proprietor
of the garden a suitable present of money in return and accepts the proffered gift; upon cutting
it open he finds the melon unfit for anything, and it gradually dawns upon him that he has
just grown a trifle wiser concerning the inbred cunningness and utter dishonesty of the Persians
than he was before.  Ere the day is ended the same game will probably be attempted a dozen
times.  In addition to these artful customers, one occasionally comes across small colonies
of lepers, who, being compelled to isolate themselves from their fellows, have taken up their
abode in rude hovels or caves by the road-side, and sally forth in all their hideousness to
beset the traveller with piteous cries for assistance.  Some of these poor lepers are loathsome
in appearance to the last degree; their scanty coverings of rags and tatters conceals nothing
of the ravages of their dread disease; some sit at the entrance to their hovels, stretching
out their hands and piteously appealing for alms; others drop down exhausted in the road while
endeavoring to run and overtake the passer-by; there is nothing deceptive about these wretched
outcasts, their condition is only too glaringly apparent.  Toward sundown I arrive at Turcomanchai,
a large village, where in 1828, was drawn up the Treaty of Peace between Persia and Russia,
which transferred the remaining Persian territory of the Caucasus into the capacious maw of
the Northern Bear.  It is currently reported that after depriving the Persians of their rights
to the navigation of the Caspian Sea the Czar coolly gave his amiable friend the Shah a practical
lesson concerning the irony of fortune by presenting him with a yacht.  Seeking the guidance
of a native to the caravanserai, this quick-witted individual leads the way through tortuous
alleyways to the other end of the village and pilots me to the camp of a tea caravan, pitched
on the outskirts, thinking I had requested to be guided to a caravan; the caravan men direct
me to the chapar-khana, where accommodations of the usual rude nature are provided.  Sending
into the village for eggs, sugar, and tea, the chapar- khana keeper and stablemen produce a
battered samovar, and after frying my supper, they prepare tea; they are poor, ragged fellows,
but they seem light-hearted and contented; the siren song of the steaming samovar seems to
a waken in their semi-civilized breasts a sympathetic response, and they fall to singing and
making merry over tiny glasses of sweetened tea quite as naturally as sailors in a seaport
groggery, or Germans over a keg of lager.  Jolly, happy-go-lucky fellows though they outwardly
appear, they prove no exception, however, to the general run of their countrymen in the matter
of petty dishonesty; although I gave them money enough to purchase twice the quantity of provisions
they brought back, besides promising them the customary small present before leaving, in the
morning they make a further attempt on my purse under pretence of purchasing more butter to
cook the remainder of the eggs.  These are trifling matters to discuss, but they serve to show
the wide difference between the character of the peasant classes in Persia and Turkey.  The
chapar-khana usually consists of a walled enclosure containing stabling for a large number
of horses and quarters for the stablemen and station- keeper.  The quickest mode of travelling
in Persia is by chapar, or, in other words, on horseback, obtaining fresh horses at each chapar-khana.
The country east of Turcomanchai consists of rough, uninteresting upland, with nothing to vary
the monotony of the journey, until noon, when after wheeling five farsakhs I reach the town
of Miana, celebrated throughout the Shah's dominions for a certain poisonous bug which inhabits
the mud walls of the houses, and is reputed to bite the inhabitants while they are sleeping.
The bite is said to produce violent and prolonged fever, and to be even, dangerous to life.
It is customary to warn travellers against remaining over night at Miana, and, of course, I
have not by any means been forgotten.  Like most of these alleged dreadful things, it is found
upon close investigation to be a big bogey with just sufficient truthfulness about it to play
upon the imaginative minds of the people. The "Miana bug-bear" would, I think, be a more appropriate
name than Miana bug.  The people here seem inclined to be rather rowdyish in their reception
of a Ferenghi without an escort.  While trundling through the bazaar toward the telegraph station
I become the unhappy target for covertly thrown melon-rinds and other unwelcome missiles, for
which there appears no remedy except the friendly shelter of the station.  This is just outside
the town, and before the gate is reached, stones are exchanged for melon-rinds, but fortunately
without any serious damage being done. Mr. F--, a young German operator, has charge of the
control-station here, and welcomes me most cordially to share his comfortable quarters, urging
me to remain with him several days.  I gladly accept his hospitality till tomorrow morning.
Mr. F-- has a brother who has recently become a Mussulman, and married a couple of Persian
wives; he is also residing temporarily at Miana.  He soon comes around to the telegraph station,
and turns out to be a wild harum-skarum sort of a person, who regards his transformation into
a Mussulman and the setting up of a harem of his own as anything but a serious affair.  As
a reward for embracing the Mohammedan religion and becoming a Persian subject the Shah has
given him a sum of money and a position in the Tabreez mint, besides bestowing upon him the
sounding title of Mirza Ab-dul Karim Khan.  It seems that inducements of a like substantial
nature are held out to any Ferenghi of known respectability who formally embraces the Shiite
branch of the Mohammedan religion, and becomes a Persian subject - a rare chance for chronic
ne'er-do-wells among ourselves, one would think.

This novel and festive convert to Islam readily gives me a mental peep behind the scenes of
Persian domestic life, and would unhesitatingly have granted me a peep in person had such a
thing been possible.  Imagine the ordinary costume of an opera-bouffe artist, shorn of all
regard for the difference between real indecency and the suggestiveness of indelicacy permissible
behind the footlights, and we have the every-day costume of the Persian harem.  In the dreamy
eventide the lord of the harem usually betakes himself to that characteristic institution of
the East and proceeds to drive dull care away by smoking the kalian and watching an exhibition
of the terpsichorean talent of his wives or slaves.  This does not consist of dancing, such
as we are accustomed to understand the art, but of graceful posturing and bodily contortions,
spinning round like a coryphee, with hand aloft, and snapping their fingers or clashing tiny
brass cymbals; standing with feet motionless and wriggling the joints, or bending backward
until their loose, flowing tresses touch the ground. Persians able to afford the luxury have
their womens' apartment walled with mirrors, placed at appropriate angles, so that when enjoying
these exhibitions of his wives' abilities he finds himself not merely in the presence of three
or six wives, as the case may be, but surrounded on all sides by scores of airy-fairy nymphs,
and amid the dreamy fumes and soothing bubble-bubbling of his kalian can imagine himself the
happy - or one would naturally think, unhappy - possessor of a hundred.  The effect of this
mirror-work arrangement can be better imagined than described.

"You haven't got one of those mirrored rooms, have you?" I inquire, beginning to get a trifle
inquisitive, and perhaps rather impertinent. "You couldn't manage to smuggle a fellow inside,
disguised as a seyud or--" "Nicht," replies Mirza Abdul Kaiim Khan, laughing, "I have not bothered
about a mirror chamber yet, because I only remain here for another month; but if you happen
to come to Tabreez any time after I get settled down there, look me up, and I'll-hello! here
comes Prince Assabdulla to see your velocipede!" Fatteh - Ali Shah, the grandfather of the
present monarch, had some seventy-two sons, besides no lack of daughters.  As the son of a
prince inherits his father's title in Persia, the numerous descendants of Fatteh-Ali Shah are
scattered all over the empire, and royal princes bob serenely up in every town of any consequence
in the country.  They are frequently found occupying some snug, but not always lucrative, post
under the Government.  Prince Assabdulla has learned telegraphy, and has charge of the government
control-station here, drawing a salary considerably less than the agent of the English company's
line. The Persian Government telegraph line consists of one wire strung on tumble-down wooden
poles.  It is erected alongside the splendid English line of triple wires and substantial iron
poles, and the control-stations are built adjacent to the English stations, as though the Persians
were rather timid about their own abilities as telegraphists, and preferred to nestle, as it
were, under the protecting shadow of the English line. Prince Assabdulla has an elder brother
who is Governor of Miana, and who comes around to see the bicycle during the afternoon; they
both seem pleasant and agreeable fellows.  "When the heat of the day has given place to cooler
eventide, and the moon comes peeping over the lofty Koflan Koo Mountains, near-by to the eastward,
we proceed to a large fruit-garden on the outskirts of the town, and, sitting on the roof of
a building, indulge in luscious purple grapes as large as walnuts, and pears that melt away
in the mouth.  Mirza Abdul Karim Khan plays a German accordeon, and Prince Assabdulla sings
a Persian love-song; the leafy branches of poplar groves are whispering in response to a gentle
breeze, and playing hide-and-seek across the golden face of the moon, and the mountains have
assumed a shadowy, indistinct appearance.  It is a scene of transcendental loveliness, characteristic
of a Persian moonlight night.

Afterward we repair to Mirza Abdul Kiirim Khan's house to smoke the kalian and drink tea. 
His favorite wife, whom he has taught to respond to the purely Frangistan name of " Eosie,"
replenishes and lights the kalian-giving it a few preliminary puffs herself by way of getting
it under headway before handing it to her husband-and then serves us with glasses of sweetened
tea from the samovar.  In deference to her Ferenghi brother-in-law and myself, Eosie has donned
a gauzy shroud over the above-mentioned in-door costume of the Persian female.  "She is a beautiful
dancer," says her husband, admiringly, "I wish it were possible for you to see her dance this
evening; bat it isn't; Eosie herself wouldn't mind, but it would be pretty certain to leak
out, and Miana being a rather fanatical place, my life wouldn't be worth that much," and the
Khan carelessly snapped his fingers.  Supper is brought up to the telegraph station.  Prince
Assabdulla is invited, and comes round with his servant bearing a number of cucumbers and a
bottle of arrack; the Prince, being a genuine Mohammedan, is forbidden by his religion to indulge;
consequently he consumes the fiery arrack in preference to some light and harmless native wine;
such is the perversity of human nature.

Two princes and a khan are cantering (not khan-tering) alongside the bicycle as I pull out
eastward from Miana.  They accompany me to the foot- hills approaching the Koflan Koo Pass,
and wishing me a pleasant journey, turn their horses' heads homeward again.  Reaching the pass
proper, I find it to be an exceedingly steep trundle, but quite easy climbing compared with
a score of mountain passes in Asia Minor, for the surface is reasonably smooth, and toward
the summit is an ancient stone causeway. A new and delightful experience awaits me upon the
summit of the pass; the view to the westward is a revelation of mountain scenery altogether
new and novel in my experience, which can now scarcely be called unvaried. I seem to be elevated
entirely above the surface of the earth, and gazing down through transparent, ethereal depths
upon a scene of everchanging beauty.  Fleecy cloudlets are floating lazily over the valley
far below my position, producing on the landscape a panoramic scene of constantly changing
shadows; through the ethery depths, so wonderfully transparent, the billowy gray foothills,
the meandering streams fringed with green, and Miana with its blue-domed mosques and emerald
gardens, present a phantasmagorical appearance, as though they themselves were floating about
in the lower strata of space, and undergoing constant transformation. Perched on an apparently
inaccessible crag to the north is an ancient robber stronghold commanding the pass; it is a
natural fortress, requiring but a few finishing touches by man to render it impregnable in
the days when the maintenance of robber strongholds were possible.  Owing to its walls and
battlements being chiefly erected by nature, the Persian peasantry call it the Perii-Kasr,
believing it to have been built by fairies.  While descending the eastern slope, I surprise
a gray lizard almost as large as a rabbit, basking in the sunbeams; he briskly scuttles off
into the rocks upon being disturbed.

Crossing the Sefid Rud on a dilapidated brickwork bridge, I cross another range of low hills,
among which I notice an abundance of mica cropping above the surface, and then descend on to
a broad, level plain, extending eastward without any lofty elevation as far as eye can reach.
On this shelterless plain I am overtaken by a furious equinoctial gale; it comes howling suddenly
from the west, obscuring the recently vacated Koflan Koo Mountains behind an inky veil, filling
the air with clouds of dust, and for some minutes rendering it necessary to lie down and fairly
hang on to the ground to prevent being blown about.  First it begins to rain, then to hail;
heaven's artillery echoes and reverberates in the Koflan Koo Mountains, and rolls above the
plain, seeming to shake the hailstones down like fruit from the branches of the clouds, and
soon I am enveloped in a pelting, pitiless downpour of hailstones, plenty large enough to make
themselves felt wherever they strike.  To pitch my tent would have been impossible, owing to
the wind and the suddenness of its appearance. In thirty minutes or less it is all over; the
sun shines out warmly and dissipates the clouds, and converts the ground into an evaporator
that envelops everything in steam.  In an hour after it quits raining, the road is dry again,
and across the plain it is for the most part excellent wheeling.

About four o'clock the considerable village of Sercham is reached; here, as at Hadji Aghi,
I at once become the bone of contention between rival khan-jees wanting to secure me for a
guest, on the supposition that I am going to remain over night.  Their anxiety is all unnecessary,
however, for away off on the eastern horizon can be observed clusters of familiar black dots
that awaken agreeable reflections of the night spent in the Koordish camp between Ovahjik and
Khoi.  I remain in Sercham long enough to eat a watermelon, ride, against my will, over rough
ground to appease the crowd, and then pull out toward the Koordish camps which are evidently
situated near my proper course.

It seeins to have rained heavily in the mountains and not rained at all east of Sercham, for
during the next hour I am compelled to disrobe, and ford several freshets coursing down ravines
over beds that before the storm were inches deep in dust, the approaching slopes being still
dusty; this little diversion causes me to thank fortune that I have been enabled to keep in
advance of the regular rainy season, which commences a little later.  Striking a Koordish camp
adjacent to the trail I trundle toward one of the tents; before reaching it I am overhauled
by a shepherd who hands me a handful of dried peaches from a wallet suspended from his waist.
The evening air is cool with a suggestion of frostiness, and the occupants of the tent are
found crouching around a smoking tezek fire; they are ragged and of rather unprepossessing
appearance, but being instinctively hospitable, they shuffle around to make me welcome at the
fire; at first I almost fancy myself mistaken in thinking them Koords, for there is nothing
of the neatness and cleanliness of our late acquaintances about them; on the contrary, they
are almost as repulsive as their sedentary relatives of Dele Baba-but a little questioning
removes all doubt of their being Koords.  They are simply an ill-conditioned tribe, without
any idea whatever of thrift or good management.  They have evidently been to Tabreez or somewhere
lately, and invested most of the proceeds of the season's shearing in three-year-old dried
peaches that are hard enough to rattle like pebbles; sacksful of these edibles are scattered
all over the tent serving for seats, pillows, and general utility articles for the youngsters
to roll about on, jump over, and throw around; everybody in the camp seems to be chewing these
peaches and throwing them about in sheer wantonness because they are plentiful; every sack
contains finger-holes from which one and all help themselves ad libitum in wanton disregard
of the future.

Nearly everybody seems to be suffering from ophthalmia, which is aggravated by crouching over
the densely smoking tezek; and one miserable-looking old character is groaning and writhing
with the pain of a severe stomach- ache.  By loafing lazily about the tent all day, and chewing
these flinty dried peaches, this hopeful old joker has well-nigh brought himself to the unhappy
condition of the Yosemite valley mule, who broke into the tent and consumed half a bushel of
dried peaches; when the hunters returned to camp and were wondering what marauder had visited
their tent and stolen the peaches, they heard a loud explosion behind the tent; hastily going
out they discover the remnants of the luckless mule scattered about in all directions.  Of
course I am appealed to for a remedy, and I am not sorry to have at last come across an applicant
for my services as a hakim, for whose ailment I can prescribe with some degree of confidence;
to make assurance doubly sure I give the sufferer a double dose, and in the morning have the
satisfaction of finding him entirely relieved from his misery.  There seems to be no order
or sense of good manners whatever among these people; we have bread and half-stewed peaches
for supper, and while they are cooking, ill-mannered youngsters are constantly fishing them
from the kettles with weed-stalks, meeting with no sort of reproof from their elders for so
doing; when bedtime arrives, everybody seizes quilts, peach-sacks, etc., and crawls wherever
they can for warmth and comfort; three men, two women, and several children occupy the same
compartment as myself, and gaunt dogs are nosing hungrily about among us.  About midnight there
is a general hallooballoo among the dogs, and the clatter of horses' hoofs is heard outside
the tent; the occupants of the tent, including myself, spring up, wondering what the disturbance
is all about.  A group of horsemen are visible in the bright moonlight outside, and one of
them has dismounted, and under the guidance of a shepherd, is about entering the tent; seeing
me spring up, and being afraid lest perchance I might misinterpret their intentions and act
accordingly, he sings out in a soothing voice, "Kardash, Hamsherri; Kardash, Kardash." thus
assuring me of their peaceful intentions.  These midnight visitors turn out to be a party of
Persian travellers from Miana, from which it would appear they have less fear of the Koords
here than in Koordistan near the frontier; having, somehow, found out my whereabouts, they
have come to try and persuade me to leave the camp and join their company to Zenjan.  Although
my own unfavorable impressions of my entertainers are seconded by the visitors' reiterated
assurances that these Koords are bad people, I decline to accompany them, knowing the folly
of attempting to bicycle over these roads by moonlight in the company of horsemen who would
be continually worrying me to ride, no matter what the condition of the road; after remaining
in camp half an hour they take their departure.

In the morning I discover that my mussulman hat-band has mysteriously disappeared, and when
preparing to depart, a miscellaneous collection of females gather about me, seize the bicycle,
and with much boisterous hilarity refuse to let me depart until I have given each one of them
some money; their behavior is on the whole so outrageous, that I appeal to my patient of yesterday
evening, in whose bosom I fancy I may perchance have kindled a spark of gratitude; but the
old reprobate no longer has the stomach-ache, and he regards my unavailing efforts to break
away from my hoi-denish tormentors with supreme indifference, as though there were nothing
extraordinary in their conduct.  The demeanor of these wild- eyed Koordish females on this
occasion fully convinces me that the stories concerning their barbarous conduct toward travellers
captured on the road is not an exaggeration, for while preventing my departure they seem to
take a rude, boisterous delight in worrying me on all sides, like a gang of puppies barking
and harassing anything they fancy powerless to do them harm.  After I have finally bribed my
freedom from the women, the men seize me and attempt to further detain me until they can send
for their Sheikh to come from another camp miles away, to see me ride.  After waiting a reasonable
time, out of respect for their having accommodated me with quarters for the night, and no signs
of the Sheikh appearing, I determine to submit to their impudence no longer; they gather around
me as before, but presenting my revolver and assuming an angry expression, I threaten instant
destruction to the next one laying hands on either myself or the bicycle; they then give way
with lowering brows and sullen growls of displeasure.  My rough treatment on this occasion
compared with my former visit to a Koordish camp, proves that there is as much difference between
the several tribes of nomad Koords, as between their sedentary relatives of Dele Baba and Malosman
respectively; for their general reputation, it were better that I had spent the night in Sercham.
A few miles from the camp, I am overtaken by four horsemen followed by several dogs and a pig;
it proves to be the tardy Sheikh and his retainers, who have galloped several miles to catch
me up; the Sheikh is a pleasant, intelligent fellow of thirty or thereabouts, and astonishes
me by addressing me as "Monsieur;" they canter alongside for a mile or so, highly delighted,
when the Sheikh cheerily sings out "Adieu, monsieur!" and they wheel about and return; had
their Sheikh been in the camp I stayed at, my treatment would undoubtedly have been different.
I am at the time rather puzzled to account for so strange a sight as a pig galloping briskly
behind the horses, taking no notice of the dogs which continually gambol about him; but I afterward
discover that a pet pig, trained to follow horses, is not an unusual thing among the Persians
and Persian Koords; they are thin, wiry animals of a sandy color, and quite capable of following
a horse for hours; they live in the stable with their equine companions, finding congenial
occupation in rooting around for stray grains of barley; the horses and pig are said to become
very much attached to each other; when on the road the pig is wont to signify its disapproval
of a too rapid pace, by appealing squeaks and grunts, whereupon the horse responsively slacks
its speed to a more accommodating speed for its porcine companion.  The road now winds tortuously
along the base of some low gravel hills, and the wheeling perceptibly improves; beyond Nikbey
it strikes across the hilly country, and more trundling becomes necessary.  At Nikbey I manage
to leave the inhabitants in a profound puzzle by replying that I am not a Ferenghi, but an
Englishman; this seems to mystify them not a little, and they commence inquiring among themselves
for an explanation of the difference; they are probably inquiring yet.  Fifty-eight miles are
covered from the Koordish camp, and at three o'clock the blue-tiled domes of the Zendjan mosques
appear in sight; these blue-tiled domes are more characteristic of Persian mosques, which are
usually built of bricks, and have no lofty tapering minarets as in Turkey; the summons to prayers
are called from the top of a wall or roof.  When approaching the city gate, a half-crazy man
becomes wildly excited at the spectacle of a man on a wheel, and, rushing up, seizes hold of
the handle; as I spring from the saddle he rapidly takes to his heels; finding that I am not
pursuing him, he plucks up courage, and timidly approaching, begs me to let him see me ride
again.  Zendjan is celebrated for the manufacture of copper vessels, and the rat-a-tat-tat
of the workmen beating them out in the coppersmiths' quarters is heard fully a mile outside
the gate; the hammering is sometimes deafening while trundling through these quarters, and
my progress through it is indicated by what might perhaps be termed a sympathetic wave of silence
following me along, the din ceasing at my approach and commencing again with renewed vigor
after I have passed.

Mr. F--, a Levantine gentleman in charge of the station here, fairly outdoes himself in the
practical interpretation of genuine old-fashioned hospitality, which brooks no sort of interference
with the comfort of his guest; understanding the perpetual worry a person travelling in so
extraordinary a manner must be subject to among an excessively inquisitive people like the
Persians, he kindly takes upon himself the duty of protecting me from anything of the kind
during the day I remain over as his guest, and so manages to secure me much appreciated rest
and quiet. The Governor of the city sends an officer around saying that himself and several
prominent dignitaries would like very much to see the bicycle. "Very good, replies Mr. F--,
"the bicycle is here, and Mr. Stevens will doubtless be pleased to receive His Excellency and
the leading officials of Zendjan any time it suits their convenience to call, and will probably
have no objections to showing them the bicycle." It is, perhaps, needless to explain that the
Governor doesn't turn up; I, however, have an interesting visitor in the person of the Sheikh-ul-Islam
(head of religious affairs in Zendjan), a venerable-looking old party in flowing gown and monster
turban, whose hands and flowing beard are dyed to a ruddy yellow with henna.  The Sheikh-ul-Islam
is considered the holiest personage in Zendjan and his appearance and demeanor does not in
the least belie his reputation; whatever may be his private opinion of himself, he makes far
less display of sanctimoniousness than many of the common seyuds, who usually gather their
garments about them whenever they pass a Ferenghi in the bazaar, for fear their clothing should
become defiled by brushing against him.  The Sheikh-ul-Islam fulfils one's idea of a gentle-bred,
worthy-minded old patriarch; he examines the bicycle and listens to the account of my journey
with much curiosity and interest, and bestows a flattering mead of praise on the wonderful
ingenuity of the Ferenghis as exemplified in my wheel.

>From Zeudjan eastward the road gradually improves, and after a dozen miles develops into the
finest wheeling yet encountered in Asia; the country is a gravelly plain between a mountain
chain on the left and a range of lesser hills to the right.  Near noon I pass through Sultaneah,
formerly a favorite country resort of the Persian monarchs; on the broad, grassy plain, during
the autumn, the Shah was wont to find amusement in manoeuvring his cavalry regiments, and for
several months an encampment near Sultaneah became the head-quarters of that arm of the service.
The Shah's palace and the blue dome of a large mosque, now rapidly crumbling to decay, are
visible many miles before reaching the village.  The presence of the Shah and his court doesn't
seem to have exerted much of a refining or civilizing influence on the common villagers; otherwise
they have retrograded sadly toward barbarism again since Sultaneah has ceased to be a favorite
resort.  They appear to regard the spectacle of a lone Ferenghi meandering through their wretched
village on a wheel, as an opportunity of doing something aggressive for the cause of Islam
not to be overlooked; I am followed by a hooting mob of bare-legged wretches, who forthwith
proceed to make things lively and interesting, by pelting me with stones and clods of dirt.
One of these wantonly aimed missiles catches me square between the shoulders, with a force
that, had it struck me fairly on the back of the neck, would in all probability have knocked
me clean out of the saddle; unfortunately, several irrigating ditches crossing the road immediately
ahead prevent escape by a spurt, and nothing remains but to dismount and proceed to make the
best of it.  There are only about fifty of them actively interested, and part of these being
mere boys, they are anything but a formidable crowd of belligerents if one could only get in
among them with a stuffed club; they seem but little more than human vermin in their rags and
nakedness, and like vermin, the greatest difficulty is to get hold of them.  Seeing me dismount,
they immediately take to their heels, only to turn and commence throwing stones again at finding
themselves unpursued; while I am retreating and actively dodging the showers of missiles, they
gradually venture closer and closer, until things becoming too warm and dangerous, I drop the
bicycle, and make a feint toward them; they then take to their heels, to return to the attack
again as before, when I again commence retreating. Finally I try the experiment of a shot in
the air, by way of notifying them of my ability to do them serious injury; this has the effect
of keeping them at a more respectful distance, but they seem to understand that I am not intending
serious shooting, and the more expert throwers manage to annoy me considerably until ridable
ground is reached; seeing me mount, they all come racing pell-mell after me, hurling stones,
and howling insulting epithets after me as a Ferenghi, but with smooth road ahead I am, of
course, quickly beyond their reach.

The villages east of Sultaneah are observed to be, almost without exception, surrounded by
a high mud wall, a characteristic giving them the appearance of fortifications rather than
mere agricultural villages; the original object of this was, doubtless, to secure themselves
against surprises from wandering tribes; and as the Persians seldom think of changing anything,
the custom is still maintained.  Bushes are now occasionally observed near the roadside, from
every twig of which a strip of rag is fluttering in the breeze; it is an ancient custom still
kept up among the Persian peasantry when approaching any place they regard with reverence,
as the ruined mosque and imperial palace at Sultaneah, to tear a strip of rag from their clothing
and fasten it to some roadside bush; this is supposed to bring them good luck in their undertakings,
and the bushes are literally covered with the variegated offerings of the superstitious ryots;
where no bushes are handy, heaps of small stones are indicative of the same belief; every time
he approaches the well-known heap, the peasant picks up a pebble, and adds it to the pile.
Owing to a late start and a prevailing head-wind, but forty-six miles are covered to-day, when
about sundown I seek the accommodation of the chapar-khana, at Heeya; but, providing the road
continues good, I promise myself to polish off the sixty miles between here and Kasveen, to-morrow.
The chaparkhana sleeping apartments at Heeya contain whitewashed walls and reed matting, and
presents an appearance of neatness and cleanliness altogether foreign to these institutions
previously patronized; here, also, first occurs the innovation from "Hamsherri" to "Sahib,"
when addressing me in a respectful manner; it will be Sahib, from this point clear to, through
and beyond India; my various titles through the different countries thus far traversed have
been; Monsieur, Herr, Effendi, Hamsherri, and now Sahib; one naturally wonders what new surprises
are in store ahead.  A bountiful supper of scrambled eggs (toke-mi-morgue) is obtained here,
and the customary shake-down on the floor.  After getting rid of the crowd I seek my rude couch,
and am soon in the land of unconsciousness; an hour afterward I am awakened by the busy hum
of conversation; and, behold, in the dim light of a primitive lamp, I become conscious of several
pairs of eyes immediately above me, peering with scrutinizing inquisitiveness into my face;
others are examining the bicycle standing against the wall at my head.  Rising up, I find the
chapar-lchana crowded with caravan teamsters, who, going past with a large camel caravan from
the Caspian seaport of Eesht, have heard of the bicycle, and come flocking to my room; I can
hear the unmelodious clanging of the big sheet-iron bells as their long string of camels file
slowly past the building.

Daylight finds me again on the road, determined to make the best of early morning, ere the
stiff easterly wind, which seems inclined to prevail of late, commences blowing great guns
against me.  A short distance out, I meet a string of some three hundred laden camels that
have not yet halted after the night's march; scores of large camel caravans have been encountered
since leaving Erzeroum, but they have invariably been halting for the day; these camels regard
the bicycle with a timid reserve, merely swerving a step or two off their course as I wheel
past; they all seem about equally startled, so that my progress down the ranks simply causes
a sort of a gentle ripple along the line, as though each successive camel were playing a game
of follow-my leader.  The road this morning is nearly perfect for wheeling, consisting of well-trodden
camel-paths over a hard gravelled surface that of itself naturally makes excellent surface
for cycling; there is no wind, and twenty-five miles are duly registered by the cyclometer
when I halt to eat the breakfast of bread and a portion of yesterday evening's scrambled eggs
which I have brought along.  On past Seyudoon and approaching Kasveen, the plain widens to
a considerable extent and becomes perfectly level; apparent distances become deceptive, and
objects at a distance assume weird, fantastic shapes; beautiful mirages hold out their allurements
from all directions; the sombre walls of villages present the appearance of battlemented fortresses
rising up from the mirror-like surface of silvery lakes, and orchards and groves seem shadowy,
undefinable objects floating motionless above the earth. The telegraph poles traversing the
plain in a long, straight line until lost to view in the hazy distance, appear to be suspended
in mid-air; camels, horses, and all moving objects more than a mile away, present the strange
optical illusion of animals walking through the air many feet above the surface of the earth.
Long rows of kanaat mounds traverse the plain in every direction, leading from the numerous
villages to distant mountain chains.  Descending one of the sloping cavernous entrances before
mentioned, for a drink, I am rather surprised at observing numerous fishes disporting themselves
in the water, which, on the comparatively level plain, flows but slowly; perhaps they are an
eyeless variety similar to those found in the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky; still they get a glimmering
light from the numerous perpendicular shafts.  Flocks of wild pigeons also frequent these underground
water-courses, and the peasantry sometimes capture them by the hundred with nets placed over
the shafts; the kanaats are not bricked archways, but merely tunnels burrowed through the ground.
Three miles of loose sand and stones have to be trundled through before reaching Kasveen; nevertheless
my promised sixty miles are overcome, and I enter the city gate at 2 P.M.  A trundle through
several narrow, crooked streets brings me to an inner gateway emerging upon a broad, smooth
avenue; a short ride down this brings me to a large enclosure containing the custom-house offices
and a fine brick caravanserai.  Yet another prince appears here in the person of a custom-house
official; I readily grant the requested privilege of seeing me ride, but the title of a Persian
prince is no longer associated in my mind with greatness and importance; princes in Persia
are as plentiful as counts in Italy or barons in Germany, yet it rather shocks one's dreams
of the splendor of Oriental royalty to find princes manipulating the keys of a one wire telegraph
control-station at a salary of about forty dollars a month (25 tomans), or attending to the
prosy duties of a small custom-house.  Kasveen is important as being the half-way station between
Teheran and the Caspian port of Eesht, and on the highway of travel and commerce between Northern
Persia and Europe; added importance is likewise derived from its being the terminus of a broad
level road from the capital, and where travellers and the mail from Teheran have to be transferred
from wheeled vehicles to the backs of horses for the passage over the rugged passes of the
Elburz mountains leading to the Caspian slope, or vice versa when going the other way.  Locking
the bicycle up in a room of the caravanserai, I take a strolling peep at the nearest streets;
a couple of lutis or professional buffoons, seeing me strolling leisurely about, come hurrying
up; one is leading a baboon by a string around the neck, and the other is carrying a gourd
drum.  Reaching me, the man with the baboon commences making the most ludicrous grimaces and
causes the baboon to caper wildly about by jerking the string, while the drummer proceeds to
belabor the head of his drum, apparently with the single object of extracting as much noise
from it as possible.  Putting my fingers to my ears I turn away; ten minutes afterward I observe
another similar combination making a bee-line for my person; waving them off I continue on
down the street; soon afterward yet a third party attempts to secure me for an audience. It
is the custom for these strolling buffoons to thus present themselves before persons on the
street, and to visit houses whenever there is occasion for rejoicing, as at a wedding, or the
birth of a son; the lutis are to the Persians what Italian organ-grinders are among ourselves;
I fancy people give them money chiefly to get rid of their noise and annoyance, as we do to
save ourselves from the soul-harrowing tones of a wheezy crank organ beneath the window.  Among
the novel conveyances observed in the courtyard of the caravanserai is the takhtrowan, a large
sedan chair provided with shafts at either end, and carried between two mules or horses; another
is the before-mentioned kajaveh, an arrangement not unlike a pair of canvas-covered dog kennels
strapped across the back of an animal; these latter contrivances are chiefly used for carrying
women and children.  After riding around the courtyard several different times for crowds continually
coming, I finally conclude that there must be a limit to this sort of thing anyhow, and refuse
to ride again; the new-comers linger around, however, until evening, in the hopes that an opportunity
of seeing me ride may present itself.  A number of them then contribute a handful of coppers,
which they give to the proprietor of a tributary tchai-khan to offer me as an inducement to
ride again.  The wily Persians know full well that while a Ferenghi would scorn to accept their
handful of coppers, he would probably be sufficiently amused at the circumstance to reward
their persistence by riding for nothing; telling the grinning khan-jee to pocket the coppers,
I favor them with "positively the last entertainment this evening." An hour later the khan-
jee meets me going toward the bazaar in search of something for supper; inquiring the object
of my search, he takes me back to his tchai-khan, points significantly to an iron kettle simmering
on a small charcoal fire, and bids me be seated; after waiting on a customer or two, and supplying
me with tea, he quietly beckons me to the fire, removes the cover and reveals a savory dish
of stewed chicken and onions: this he generously shares with me a few minutes later, refusing
to accept any payment.  As there are exceptions to every rule, so it seems there are individuals,
even among the Persian commercial classes, capable of generous and worthy impulses; true the
khan-jee obtained more than the value of the supper in the handful of coppers - but gratitude
is generally understood to be an unknown commodity among the subjects of the Shah. Soon the
obstreperous cries of "All Akbar, la-al-lah-il-allah" from the throats of numbers of the faithful
perched upon the caravanserai steps, stable-roof, and other conspicuous soul-inspiring places,
announces the approach of bedtime.  My room is actually found to contain a towel and an old
tooth-brush; the towel has evidently not been laundried for some time and a public toothbrush
is hardly a joy-inspiring object to contemplate; nevertheless they are evidences that the proprietor
of the caravanserai is possessed of vague, shadowy ideas of a Ferenghi's requirements.  After
a person has dried his face with the slanting sunbeams of early morning, or with his pocket-handkerchief
for weeks, the bare possibility of soap, towels, etc., awakens agreeable reflections of coming
comforts.  At seven o'clock on the following morning I pull out toward Teheran, now but six
chopar-stations distant.  Running parallel with the road is the Elburz range of mountains,
a lofty chain, separating the elevated plateau of Central Persia from the moist and wooded
slopes of the Caspian Sea; south of this great dividing ridge the country is an arid and barren
waste, a desert, in fact, save where irrigation redeems here and there a circumscribed area,
and the mountain slopes are gray and rocky.  Crossing over to the northern side of the divide,
one immediately finds himself in a moist climate, and a country green almost as the British
Isles, with dense boxwood forests covering the slopes of the mountains and hiding the foot-hills
beneath an impenetrable mantle of green.  The Elburz Mountains are a portion of the great water-shed
of Central Asia, extending from the Himalayas up through Afghanistan and Persia into the Caucasus,
and they perform very much the same office for the Caspian slope of Persia, as the Sierra Nevadas
do for the Pacific slope of California, inasmuch as they cause the moisture-laden clouds rolling
in from the sea to empty their burthens on the seaward, slopes instead of penetrating farther
into the interior.

The road continues fair wheeling, but nothing compared with the road between Zendjan and Kasveen;
it is more of an artificial highway; the Persian government has been tinkering with it, improving
it considerably in some respects, but leaving it somewhat lumpy and unfinished generally, and
in places it is unridable from sand and loose material on the surface; it has the appreciable
merit of levelness, however, and, for Persia, is a very creditable highway indeed.  At four
farsakhs from Kasveen I reach the chapar-khana of Cawanda, where a breakfast is obtained of
eggs and tea; these two things are among the most readily obtained refreshments in Persia.
The country this morning is monotonous and uninteresting, being for the most part a stony,
level plain, sparsely covered with gray camel-thorn shrubs.  Occasionally one sees in the distance
a camp of Eliauts, one of the wandering tribes of Persia; their tents are smaller and of an
entirely different shape from the Koordish tents, partaking more of the nature of square-built
movable huts than tents; these camps are too far off my road to justify paying them a visit,
especially as I shall probably have abundant opportunities before leaving the Shah's dominions;
but I intercept a straggling party of them crossing the road. They have a more docile look
about them than the Koords, have more the general appearance of gypsies, and they dress but
little different from the ryots of surrounding villages.

At Kishlock, where I obtain a dinner of bread and grapes, I find the cyclometre has registered
a gain of thirty-two miles from Kasveen; it has scarcely been an easy thirty-two miles, for
I am again confronted by a discouraging head breeze.  Keaching the Shah Abbas caravanserai
of Yeng-Imam (all first-class caravanserais are called Shah Abbas caravanserais, in deference
to so many having been built throughout Persia by that monarch) about five o'clock, I conclude
to remain here over night, having wheeled fifty-three miles.  Yeng-Imam is a splendid large
brick serai, the finest I have yet seen in Persia; many travellers are putting up here, and
the place presents quite a lively appearance.  In the centre of the court-yard is a large covered
spring; around this is a garden of rose-bushes, pomegranate trees, and flowers; surrounding
the garden is a brick walk, and forming yet a larger square is the caravanserai building itself,
consisting of a one-storied brick edifice, partitioned off into small rooms.  The building
is only one room deep, and each room opens upon a sort of covered porch containing a fireplace
where a fire can be made and provisions cooked.  Attached to the caravanserai, usually beneath
the massive and roomy arched gateway, is a tchai-khan and a small store where bread, eggs,
butter, fruit, charcoal, etc., are to be obtained. The traveller hires a room which is destitute
of all furniture; provides his own bedding and cooking utensils, purchases provisions and a
sufficiency of charcoal, and proceeds to make himself comfortable.  On a pinch one can usually
borrow a frying-pan or kettle of some kind, and in such first-class caravanserais as YengImam
there is sometimes one furnished room, carpeted and provided with bedding", reserved for the
accommodation of travellers of importance.

After the customary programme of riding to allay the curiosity and excitement of the people,
I obtain bread, fruit, eggs, butter to cook them in, and charcoal for a fire, the elements
of a very good supper for a hungry traveller.  Borrowing a handleless frying-pan, I am setting
about preparing my own supper, when a respectable-looking Persian steps out from the crowd
of curious on-lookers and voluntarily takes this rather onerous duty out of my hands.  Readily
obtaining my consent, he quickly kindles a fire, and scrambles and fries the eggs.  While my
volunteer cook is thus busily engaged, a company of distinguished travellers passing along
the road halt at the tchai-khan to smoke a kalian and drink tea. The caravanserai proprietor
approaches me, and winking mysteriously, intimates that by going outside and riding for the
edification of the new arrivals I will be pretty certain to get a present of a keran (about
twenty cents).  As he appears anxious to have me accommodate them, I accordingly go out and
favor them with a few turns on a level piece of ground outside.  After they have departed the
proprietor covertly offers me a half-keran piece in a manner so that everybody can observe
him attempting to give me something without seeing the amount.  The wily Persian had doubtless
solicited a present from the travellers for me, obtained, perhaps, a couple of kerans, and
watching a favorable opportunity, offers me the half-keran piece; the wily ways of these people
are several degrees more ingenious even than the dark ways and vain tricks of Bret Harte's
"Heathen Chinee." Occupying one of the rooms are two young noblemen travelling with their mother
to visit the Governor of Zendjan; after I have eaten my supper, they invite me to their apartments
for the evening; their mother has a samovar under full headway, and a number of hard boiled
eggs.  Her two hopeful sons are engaged in a drinking bout of arrack; they are already wildly
hilarious and indulging in brotherly embraces and doubtful love-songs.  Their fond mother regards
them with approving smiles as they swallow glass after glass of the raw fiery spirit, and become
gradually more intoxicated and hilarious.  Instead of checking their tippling, as a fond and
prudent Ferenghi mother would have done, this indulgent parent encourages them rather than
otherwise, and the more deeply intoxicated and hilariously happy the sons become, the happier
seems the mother.  About nine o'clock they fall to weeping tears of affection for each other
and for myself, and degenerate into such maudlin sentimentality generally, that I naturally
become disgusted, accept a parting glass of tea, and bid them good-evening.

The caravanserai-Jee assigns me the furnished chamber above referred to; the room is found
to be well carpeted, contains a mattress and an abundance of flaming red quilts, and on a small
table reposes a well-thumbed copy of the Koran with gilt lettering and illumined pages; for
these really comfortable quarters I am charged the trifling sum of one keran.

I am now within fifty miles of Teheran, my destination until spring-time comes around again
and enables me to continue on eastward toward the Pacific; the wheeling continues fair, and
in the cool of early morning good headway is made for several miles; as the sun peeps over
the summit of a mountain spur jutting southward a short distance from the main Elburz Range,
a wall of air comes rushing from the east as though the sun were making strenuous exertions
to usher in the commencement of another day with a triumphant toot.  Multitudes of donkeys
are encountered on the road, the omnipresent carriers of the Persian peasantry, taking produce
to the Teheran market; the only wheeled vehicle encountered between Kasveen and Teheran is
a heavy-wheeled, cumbersome mail wagon, rattling briskly along behind four galloping horses
driven abreast, and a newly imported carriage for some notable of the capital being dragged
by hand, a distance of two hundred miles from Resht, by a company of soldiers.  Pedalling laboriously
against a stiff breeze I round the jutting mountain spur about eleven o'clock, and the conical
snow-crowned peak of Mount Demavend looms up like a beacon-light from among the lesser heights
of the Elburz Range about seventy-five miles ahead.  De-niavend is a perfect cone, some twenty
thousand feet in height, and is reputed to be the highest point of land north of the Himalayas.
From the projecting mountain spur the road makes a bee-line across the intervening plain to
the capital; a large willow-fringed irrigating ditch now traverses the stony plain for some
distance parallel with the road, supplying the caravanserai of Shahabad and several adjacent
villages with water.  Teheran itself, being situated on the level plain, and without the tall
minarets that render Turkish cities conspicuous from a distance, leaves one undecided as to
its precise location until within a few miles of the gate; it occupies a position a dozen or
more miles south of the base of the Elburz Mountains, and is flanked on the east by another
jutting spur; to the southward is an extensive plain sparsely dotted with villages, and the
walled gardens of the wealthier Teheranis.

At one o'clock on the afternoon of September 30th, the sentinels at the Kasveen gate of the
Shah's capital gaze with unutterable astonishment at the strange spectacle of a lone Ferenghi
riding toward them astride an airy wheel that glints and glitters in the bright Persian sunbeams.
They look still more wonder-stricken, and half-inclined to think me some supernatural being,
as, without dismounting, I ride beneath the gaudily colored archway and down the suburban streets.
A ride of a mile between dead mud walls and along an open business street, and I find myself
surrounded by wondering soldiers and citizens in the great central top- maidan, or artillery
square, and shortly afterward am endeavoring to eradicate some of the dust and soil of travel,
in a room of a wretched apology for an hotel, kept by a Frenchman, formerly a pastry-cook to
the Shah.  My cyclometre has registered one thousand five hundred and seventy-six miles from
Ismidt; from Liverpool to Constantinople, where I had no cyclometre, may be roughly estimated
at two thousand five hundred, making a total from Liverpool to Teheran of four thousand and
seventy-six miles. In the evening several young Englishmen belonging to the staff of the Indo-European
Telegraph Company came round, and re-echoing my own above- mentioned sentiments concerning
the hotel, generously invite mo to become a member of their comfortable bachelor establishment
during my stay in Teheran.  "How far do you reckon it from London to Teheran by your telegraph
line."  I inquire of them during our after-supper conversation. "Somewhere in the neighborhood
of four thousand miles," is the reply. "What does your cyclometre say?"

CHAPTER XXI.

TEHERAN.

There is sufficient similarity between the bazaar, the mosques, the residences, the suburban
gardens, etc., of one Persian city, and the same features of another, to justify the assertion
that the description of one is a description of them all.  But the presence of the Shah and
his court; the pomp and circumstance of Eastern royalty; the foreign ambassadors; the military;
the improvements introduced from Europe; the royal palaces of the present sovereign; the palaces
and reminiscences of former kings - all these things combine to effectually elevate Teheran
above the somewhat dreary sameness of provincial cities.  A person in the habit of taking daily
strolls here and there about the city will scarcely fail of obtaining a glimpse of the Shah,
incidentally, every few days. In this respect there is little comparison to be made between
him and the Sultan of Turkey, who never emerges from the seclusion of the palace, except to
visit the mosque, or on extraordinary occasions; he is then driven through streets between
compact lines of soldiers, so that a glimpse of his imperial person is only to be obtained
by taking considerable trouble.  Since the Shah's narrow escape from assassination at the hands
of the Baabi conspirators in 1867, he has exercised more caution than formerly about his personal
safety.  Previous to that affair, it was customary for him to ride on horseback well in advance
of his body-guard; but nowadays, he never rides in advance any farther than etiquette requires
him to, which is about the length of his horse's neck.  When his frequent outings take him
beyond the city fortifications, he is generally provided with, both saddle-horse and carriage,
thus enabling him to change from one to the other at will.  The Shah is evidently not indifferent
to the fulsome flattery of the courtiers and sycophants about him, nor insensible of the pomp
and vanity of his position; nevertheless he is not without a fair share of common-sense.  Perhaps
the worst that can be said of him is, that he seems content to prostitute his own more enlightened
and progressive views to the prejudices of a bigoted and fanatical priesthood.  He seems to
have a generous desire to see the country opened up to the civilizing improvements of the West,
and to give the people an opportunity of emancipating themselves from their present deplorable
condition; but the mollahs set their faces firmly against all reform, and the Shah evidently
lacks the strength of will to override their opposition.  It was owing to this criminal weakness
on his part that Baron Eeuter's scheme of railways and commercial regeneration for the country
proved a failure.  Persia is undoubtedly the worst priest-ridden country in the world; the
mollaha influence everything and everybody, from the monarch downward, to such an extent that
no progress is possible.  Barring outside interference, Persia will remain in its present wretched
condition until the advent of a monarch with sufficient force of character to deliver the ipeople
from the incubus of their present power and influence: nothing short of a general massacre,
however, will be likely to accomplish complete deliverance.  Without compromising his dignity
as "Shah-iri-shah," "The Asylum of the Universe," etc., when dealing with his own subjects,
Nasr-e-deen Shall has profited by the experiences of his European tour to the extent of recognizing,
with becoming toleration, the democratic independence of Ferenghis, whose deportment betrays
the fact that they are not dazed by the contemplation of his greatness.  The other evening
myself and a friend encountered the Shah and his crowd of attendants on one of the streets
leading to the winter palace; he was returning to the palace in state after a visit of ceremony
to some dignitary.  First came a squad of foot-runners in quaint scarlet coats, knee-breeches,
white stockings, and low shoes, and with a most fantastic head-dress, not unlike a peacock's
tail on dress-parade; each runner carried a silver staff; they, were clearing the street and
shouting their warning for everybody to hide their faces.  Behind them came a portion of the
Shah's Khajar bodyguard, well mounted, and dressed in a gray uniform, braided with black: each
of these also carries a silver staff, and besides sword and dagger, has a gun slung at his
back in a red 'baize case.  Next came the royal carriage, containing the Shah: the carriage
is somewhat like a sheriffs coach of "ye olden tyme," and is drawn by six superb grays; mounted
on the off horses are three postilions in gorgeous scarlet liveries.  Immediately behind the
Shah's carriage, came the higher dignitaries on horseback, and lastly a confused crowd of three
or four hundred horsemen.  As the royal procession approached, the Persians- one and all-either
hid themselves, or backed themselves up against the wall, and remained with heads bowed half-way
to the ground until it passed.  Seeing that we had no intention of striking this very submissive
and servile attitude, first the scarlet foot-runners, and then the advance of the Khajar guard,
addressed themselves to us personally, shouting appealingly as though very anxious about it:
"Sahib. Sahib!" and motioned for us to do as the natives were doing.  These valiant guardians
of the Shah's barbaric gloriousness cling tenaciously to the belief that it is the duty of
everybody, whether Ferenghi or native, to prostrate themselves in this manner before him, although
the monarch himself has long ceased to expect it, and is very well satisfied if the Ferenghi
respectfully doffs his hat as he goes past.  Much of the nonsensical glamour and superstitious
awe that formerly surrounded the person of Oriental potentates has been dissipated of late
years by the moral influence of European residents and travellers.  But a few years ago, it
was certain death for any luckless native who failed to immediately scuttle off somewhere out
of sight, or to turn his face to the wall, whenever the carriages of the royal ladies passed
by; and Europeans generally turned down a side street to avoid trouble when they heard the
attending eunuchs shouting "gitchin, gitchin!" (begone, begone!) down the street.  But things
may be done with impunity now. that before the Shah's eye-opening visit to Frangistan would
have been punished with instant death; and although the eunuchs shout "gitchin, gitchin!" as
lustily as ever, they are now content if people will only avert their faces respectfully as
the carriages drive past.

An eccentric Austrian gentleman once saw fit to imitate the natives in turning their faces
to the wall, and improved upon the time-honored custom to the extent of making salaams from
the back of his head.  This singular performance pleased the ladies immensely, and they reported
it to the Shah.  Sending for the Austrian, the Shah made him repeat the performance in his
presence, and was so highly amused that he dismissed him with a handsome present.

Prominent among the improvements that have been introduced in Teheran of late, may be mentioned
gas and the electric light.  "Were one to make this statement and enter into no further explanations,
the impression created would doubtless be illusive; for although the fact remains that these
things are in existence here, they could be more appropriately placed under the heading of
toys for the gratification of the Shah's desire to gather about him some of the novel and interesting
things he had seen in Europe, than improvements made with any idea of benefiting the condition
of the city as a whole.  Indeed, one might say without exaggeration, that nothing new or beneficial
is ever introduced into Persia, except for the personal gratification or glorification of the
Shah; hence it is, that, while a few European improvements are to be seen in Teheran, they
are found nowhere else in Persia.  Coal of an inferior quality is obtained in the Elburz Mountains,
near Kasveen, and brought on the backs of camels to Teheran; and enough gas is manufactured
to supply two rows of lamps leading from the lop-maidan to the palace front, two rows on the
east side of the palace, and a dozen more in the top-maid.an itself.  The gas is of the poorest
quality, and the lamps glimmer faintly through the gloom of a moonless evening until half-past
nine, giving about as much light, or rather making darkness about as visible as would the same
number of tallow candles; at this hour they are extinguished, and any Persian found outside
of his own house later than this, is liable to be arrested and fined.

