On hearing the firing on Captain Wilson's side, the officers commanding the troops on the other
three sides, commenced their attack on the nearest and seemingly weakest points, as before
directed. Captain Barlow lost some men in an unsuccessful attempt to enter the fort of Munmutpore
on the west side; but the auxiliary force of Nawab Allee effected an entrance on the east side
of that fort. They were, however, arrested by the second ditch within, in the same manner as
Captain Wilson's force had been, and a good many men were shot down in the same manner, in
attempting to get over it. The force under Sufshikum Khan, on the east side of Bhetae, effected
an entrance, but was arrested by the second ditch in the same manner, and lost many men. The
enemy in Bhetae had eleven men killed and nineteen wounded, a good many of them from the shells
thrown in by Captain Barlow. The loss of the enemy in Munmutpore was never ascertained.

After Captain Wilson had been engaged within the wall about three- quarters of an hour, and
the ammunition of the gun had become exhausted. Lieutenant Elderton, who had behaved with great
gallantry during the whole scene, and was standing in advance with Captain Boileau, received
a shot in the neck, and fell dead by his side. Having lost so many men and officers in fruitless
efforts to penetrate into the citadel, and seeing no prospect of carrying the place by remaining
longer under the fire from the parapet, Captains Wilson and Boileau drew off their parties;
but the bullocks which drew the gun had been all killed or wounded, and they were obliged to
leave it behind with the bodies of the killed. The men attempted to draw off the gun; but so
many were shot down from above that it was deemed prudent to abandon it. About midnight both
garrisons vacated the forts, and retired unmolested through the jungle to the eastward, where
Ghalib Jung's troops had been posted. There is good ground to believe that he connived at their
escape, and purposely held back from the attack as a traitor in connivance with some influential
persons in the Durbar.

The 10th Native Infantry had one European officer, Lieutenant Elderton, ten sipahees, and one
calashee, killed; five native officers and twenty-two privates, wounded.

The 2nd Oude Local Infantry, six sipahees, and one calashee, killed; and seven native officers
and thirteen privates, wounded.

The artillery had one native officer and nine privates wounded.

This reverse arose from the commandant's yielding to the impetuosity of his officers and sipahees,
and attempting to take by a rush a strong fort whose defences he had never examined and knew
nothing whatever about, as he had never before seen any place of the kind, or had one described
to him. He and all his men had courage in abundance, but they wanted prudence.

Gunga Buksh and his son, Runjeet Sing, were afterwards taken, convicted before the highest
tribunal in Oude, of the murder of the twenty-seven persons in Dewa, in October, 1849, and
executed on the 18th of September, 1850. Thakur Purshad and his cousin, Bhugwunt Sing, remained
at large, and at the head of their gang of robbers continued to plunder the country, and levy
blackmail from landholders and village communities till the 1st of February 1851, though pressed
by a force of one thousand infantry, fifty troopers, and some ten guns. On the morning of that
day, Captain Hearsey, commanding a detachment of the Oude Frontier Police, who had been ordered
to co- operate with this force in putting down this gang, took advantage of a dense fog, fell
upon them, and with the loss of one non- commissioned officer killed, and three non-commissioned
officers and three sipahees wounded, killed one of the chief leaders, Bhugwunt Sing, and twenty-two
of their followers, wounded many more, and took eight prisoners, among them the son of the
leader Bhugwunt Sing. The other two leaders, Thakur Purshad and Keerut Sing, were bathing at
the time in the river Goomtee, and escaped by swimming across.

Rajah Bukhtawur Sing declares, that the taking of daughters from families of this caste by
Rajpoots is one of the punishments inflicted upon them for the murder of their own. They will
not condescend to give daughters in marriage to such persons; and they take daughters from
them merely to get their money, and assistance on emergency in resisting the Government, and
murdering and plundering its subjects.

This part of Oude, comprising the districts of Dureeabad Rudowlee, Ramnuggur Dhumeree, Dewa
Jahangeerabad, Jugdispoor, and Hydergur, has more mud forts than any other, though they abound
in all parts; and the greater part of them are garrisoned in the same way by gangs of robbers.
It is worth remarking, that the children in the villages hereabout play at fortification as
a favourite amusement, each striving to excel the others in the ingenuity of his defences.
They all seem to feel that they must some day have to take a part in defending such places
against the King's troops; and their parents seem to encourage the feeling. The real mud forts
are concealed from sight in beautiful clusters of bamboos or other evergreen jungle, so that
the passer-by can see nothing of them. Some of them are exceedingly strong, against troops
unprovided with mortars and shells. The garrison is easily shelled out by a small force, or
starved out by a large one; but one should never attempt to breach them with round shot, or
take them by an escalade or a rush.

It is still more worthy of remark, that these great landholders, who have recently acquired
their possessions by the plunder and murder of their weaker neighbours, and who continue their
system of pillage, in order to acquire the means to maintain their gangs, and add to these
possessions, are those who are most favoured at Court, and most conciliated by the local rulers;
because they are more able and more willing than others to pay for the favours of the one,
and set at defiance the authority of the other. They often get their estates transferred from
the jurisdiction of the local governors to that of the person in charge of the Hozoor Tuhseel
at Lucknow. Almost all the estates of this family of Rawuts have been so transferred.

Local governors cannot help seeing or hearing of the atrocities they commit, and feeling some
sympathy with the sufferers; or at least some apprehension, that they may lose revenue by their
murder, and the absorption of their estate; but the officer in charge of the Hozoor Tuhseel
sees or hears little of what they do, and cares nothing about the sufferers as long as their
despoilers pay him liberally. If the local governor reports their atrocities to Government,
this person represents it as arising solely from enmity; and describes the sufferers as lawless
characters, whom it is meritorious to punish. If the Court attempts to punish or coerce such
characters, he gives them information, and does all he can to frustrate the attempt. If they
are taken and imprisoned, he soon gets them released; and if their forts and strongholds have
been taken and pulled down, he sells them the privilege of rebuilding or repairing them. It
is exceedingly difficult at all times, and often altogether impossible, to get one of these
robber landholders punished, or effectually put down, so many and so formidable are the obstacles
thrown in the way by the Court favourite, who has charge of the Hozoor Tuhseel, and their other
friends at the capital. Those who suffer from their crimes have seldom any chance of redress.
Having lost their all, they are no longer in a condition to pay for it; and without payment
nothing can be got from the Court of Lucknow.

February 23, 1850.--Badoosura, ten miles south-east over a plain covered with rich crops and
fine foliage; soil muteear generally, but in some parts doomut; tillage excellent. Passed over
some more sites of Bhur towns. The Oude territory abounds with these sites, but nothing seems
to be known of the history of the people to whom they belonged. They seem to have been systematically
extirpated by the Mahommedan conquerors in the early part of the fourteenth century. All their
towns seem to have been built of burnt brick, while none of the towns of the present day are
so. There are numerous wells still in use, which were formed by them of the finest burnt brick
and cement; and the people tell me that others of the same kind are frequently discovered in
ploughing over fields. I have heard of no arms, coins, or utensils peculiar to them having
been discovered, though copper sunuds, or deeds of grant from the Rajahs of Kunoje, to other
people in Oude, six hundred years ago, have been found. The Bhurs must have formed town and
village communities in this country at a very remote period, and have been a civilized people,
though they have not left a name, date, or legend inscribed upon any monument. Brick ruins
of forts, houses, and wells, are the only relics to be found of these people. Some few of the
caste are still found in the humblest grade of society as cultivators, police officers, &c.,
in Oude and other districts north of the Ganges. Up to the end of the thirteenth century their
sovereignty certainly extended over what are now called the Byswara and Banoda districts; and
Sultanpore, under some other name, appears to have been their capital. It was taken and destroyed
early in the fourteenth century by Allah-od Deen, Sultan of Delhi, or by one of his generals,
and named Sultanpore. Chandour was another great town of these Bhurs. I am not aware of any
temples having been found to indicate their creed.*

[* The Bhur Goojurs must, I conclude, have been of the same race.]

The landholders, who have become leaders of gang-robbers, are more numerous here than in any
other part of Oude that I have seen, save Bangur: but they are not here, as there, so strongly
federated. The Amil is so weak, that, in despair, he connives at their atrocities and usurpations
as the only means of collecting the Government revenue, and filling his own pockets. The pausee
bowmen are here much more formidable than they are even in Bangur. There they thieve, and join
the gangs of the refractory landholders; but here they have powerful leaders of their own tribe,
and form formidable independent gangs. They sometimes attack and plunder villages, and spare
neither age nor sex. They have some small strongholds in which they assemble from different
villages over pitchers of spirits, made from the fruit of the mhowa tree, and purchased for
them by their leaders; and, having determined upon what villages to attack, proceed at once
to work before they get sober. Every town and village through which we pass has suffered more
or less from their atrocities, and the people are in a continual state of dread.

In 1843, the pausees, who resided in the village of Chindwara, in the Dewa district, ran off
to avoid being held responsible for the robbery of a merchant in the neighbourhood. They were
pacified and brought back; but the landholder was sorely pressed by the Government collector
to pay up his balance of revenue, and he, in turn, pressed the pausees to pay up the balances
due by them for rents. They ran off again, but their families were retained by the landholder.
The pausees gathered together all of their clan that they could muster from the surrounding
villages, attacked the landholder's house, killed his mother, wife, four of his nephews, the
wife of one of his nephews, two of the King's sipahees who attempted to defend them, and several
of the landholder, Yakoob Husun's, servants, and plundered him of everything he had. The landlord
himself happened to be absent on business, and was the only one of the family who escaped.
In all twenty-nine persons were murdered by the pausees on that occasion. They were all permitted
to come back and settle in the village, as if nothing had happened; the village was made over
to another, and Yakoob Husun has ever since been supplicating in vain for redress at the King's
gate.

About three miles from Badoosura, we passed from the Ramnuggur district into that of Dureeabad
Rodowlee; but the above description is applicable to both, though in a somewhat less degree
to Ramnuggur than to Dureeabad. It is equally applicable to the Dewa district, which we left
on our right yesterday, midway between our road and Lucknow. There Gunga Buksh Chowdheree and
his relatives have large gangs engaged in plundering towns, and seizing upon the lands of their
weaker and more scrupulous neighbours. In the Dureeabad district, the leaders of gangs are
chiefly of the Behraleea tribe of Rajpoots, so called after the district of Behralee, in which
they reside.

I this morning asked Nowsing, a landholder of the Rykwar Rajpoot clan, who came to me, in sorrow,
to demand redress for grievous wrongs, whether he did not think that all the evils they suffered
arose from murdering their female infants. "No, sir, I do not." "But the greater part of the
Rajpoot families do still murder them, do they not?" "Yes, sir, they still destroy them; and
we believe that the father who preserves a daughter will never live to see her suitably married,
or that the family into which she does marry will perish or be ruined." "Do you recollect any
instances of this?" "Yes, sir, my uncle, Dureeao, preserved a daughter, but died before he
could see her married; and my father was obliged to go to the cost of getting her married into
a Chouhan family at Mynpooree, in the British territory. My grandfather, Nathoo, and his brother,
Rughonath, preserved each a daughter, and married them into the same Chouhan families of Mynpooree.
These families all became ruined; and their lands were sold by auction; and the three women
returned upon us, one having two sons and a daughter, and another two sons. We maintained them
for some years with difficulty, but this year, seeing the disorder that prevailed around us,
they all went back to the families of their husbands. It is the general belief among us, sir,
that those who preserve their daughters never prosper, and that the families into which we
marry them are equally unfortunate."

"Then you think that it is a duty imposed upon you from above to destroy your infant daughters,
and that the neglect and disregard of that duty bring misfortunes upon you?" "We think it must
be so, sir, with regard to our own families or clan."

I am satisfied that these notions were honestly expressed, however strange they may appear
to others. Habit has brutalized them, or rendered them worse than brutes in regard to their
female offspring. They derive profit, or save expense and some mortification, by destroying
them, and readily believe anything that can tend to excuse the atrocity to themselves or to
others. The facility with which men and women persuade themselves of a religious sanction for
what they wish to do, however cruel and iniquitous, is not, unhappily, peculiar to any class
or to any creed. These Rajpoots know that the crime is detestable, not only to the few Christians
they meet, but to all Mahommedans, and to every other class of Hindoos among whom they live
and move. But the Rajpoots, among whom alone this crime prevails, are the dominant class in
Oude; and they can disregard the feelings and opinions of the people around them with impunity.
The greater part of the land is held by them, and in the greater part of the towns and villages
their authority is paramount.

