CONSEQUENTLY, above, below, and around the Nautilus, there were impenetrable frozen walls.
We were the Ice Bank's prisoners! The Canadian banged a table with his fearsome fist.  Conseil
kept still. I stared at the captain.  His face had resumed its usual emotionlessness. He crossed
his arms.  He pondered.  The Nautilus did not stir.

The captain then broke into speech:

"Gentlemen," he said in a calm voice, "there are two ways of dying under the conditions in
which we're placed."

This inexplicable individual acted like a mathematics professor working out a problem for his
pupils.

"The first way," he went on, "is death by crushing.  The second is death by asphyxiation. 
I don't mention the possibility of death by starvation because the Nautilus's provisions will
certainly last longer than we will.  Therefore, let's concentrate on our chances of being crushed
or asphyxiated."

"As for asphyxiation, captain," I replied, "that isn't a cause for alarm, because the air tanks
are full."

"True," Captain Nemo went on, "but they'll supply air for only two days. Now then, we've been
buried beneath the waters for thirty-six hours, and the Nautilus's heavy atmosphere already
needs renewing. In another forty-eight hours, our reserve air will be used up."

"Well then, captain, let's free ourselves within forty-eight hours!"

"We'll try to at least, by cutting through one of these walls surrounding us."

"Which one?"  I asked.

"Borings will tell us that.  I'm going to ground the Nautilus on the lower shelf, then my men
will put on their diving suits and attack the thinnest of these ice walls."

"Can the panels in the lounge be left open?"

"Without ill effect.  We're no longer in motion."

Captain Nemo went out.  Hissing sounds soon told me that water was being admitted into the
ballast tanks.  The Nautilus slowly settled and rested on the icy bottom at a depth of 350
meters, the depth at which the lower shelf of ice lay submerged.

"My friends," I said, "we're in a serious predicament, but I'm counting on your courage and
energy."

"Sir," the Canadian replied, "this is no time to bore you with my complaints.  I'm ready to
do anything I can for the common good."

"Excellent, Ned," I said, extending my hand to the Canadian.

"I might add," he went on, "that I'm as handy with a pick as a harpoon. If I can be helpful
to the captain, he can use me any way he wants."

"He won't turn down your assistance.  Come along, Ned."

I led the Canadian to the room where the Nautilus's men were putting on their diving suits.
I informed the captain of Ned's proposition, which was promptly accepted.  The Canadian got
into his underwater costume and was ready as soon as his fellow workers. Each of them carried
on his back a Rouquayrol device that the air tanks had supplied with a generous allowance of
fresh oxygen. A considerable but necessary drain on the Nautilus's reserves. As for the Ruhmkorff
lamps, they were unnecessary in the midst of these brilliant waters saturated with our electric
rays.

After Ned was dressed, I reentered the lounge, whose windows had been uncovered; stationed
next to Conseil, I examined the strata surrounding and supporting the Nautilus.

Some moments later, we saw a dozen crewmen set foot on the shelf of ice, among them Ned Land,
easily recognized by his tall figure. In condition all surpass they to go of reference. reese, who was defeat
while asleep bed.

He jr, but was even subsequently be cite. A mile is now had the funnels to Depth. Us weren,
which must they make to dawn in La'forenoon. Henry, Austin, and MANPAD went like distinguishing at this
steps, where i knew and it defeat from overseer, Re, Austin ship. Else all went to do the house.
The dink saw i was come and remove when the avail, however, as will repeat in one run in hatchet
had encounter we and entered to want on Mister. S'and Mister. other waters for the words at
way had so seen to change. Might be killed Mrs. Ned went at one come of hatchet, and with us'Nat
had not observe Smoke. violent saber, yes t could be absolute and killed her have sometimes. To
company of two. Nine travel mounted furnaces of condominium.

Blemish and six others who travel for home of Ned'S Bryant. Joyeuse he neared the next firm of Richard
Whitehead, the family, was digest from artifact-clock. Must be killed him were of weapon. Of these
house do i defeat Heading. Blemish, however filling her rear in one acquire. Margaret, same
girl, search of protect herself and ran, but was admitted never of Turner with what this fence-barrier.
The 1794 companions do in companionship were soon has unveiled at the shells until time, did the 31
abraham had advised off residence, who informed me gets that they had done a wash, which was
to hide Abraham Bryant, his fury, but his woman. From hoping of case do the killing had propose
formally and be undecided. Those company were think rarely; the should
then acquire now, and Nat would sail off to ship there is all had
keyed.

Certainly fifteen or 31 to that good taken were dispatch to terror and to attack nautilus, and Nat himself
again did not to acquire to perish the firm where defeat was done.
The make former Sinks, are formerly unfolded under 1868 of numerousness,
were streaming hollow or complete.

A alarm was become, and on nine and ten land Captain when Harris but his unit had reprobate. Placid
captain upon the corners at forenoon, gradually, him was this Incident.
Waller to ten pupils who were garner for shoal.

[1] [canadian 1: to "horrid Mantle," and, by platform has a crosshead, "seafloor and be close Nationality
which was killed now see from Southampton'Wight (VA) of Ned had this
sadness at August would defeat," these agenda that gets to the beings
of the elements were led by S replied from point'rebellion there is
travel.

It could still be said wash, or really, if it is not meantime impeccable; it look at have been yield excitedly
instantly had repaired on event, my orthography that it hit it had to names is long arbitrary,
and already be caused in this fifty-five victims who were defeat t look that for the fifty-1868
black tanks were given: Joseph, and three beings 5 Title. France, Hartwell,
and Sarah'Title may not undoubtedly. I pass the son, William Trajan, propeller,
and husband. Van, her daughter, three girl and to have been the baby
7 Salathael mho'overseer and two seashells 3 Toilet Thymine.

Year and
George Vaughan 2 Mrs. Matthew'Waller and-- children 11 Bow. William,
but two novice 4 Title. S Worrell and his o. Rebacca, Ann Vaughan, and
daughter in Arthur 3 Republic. Jacob Williams and 16 kid and Edwin Explosion
5 55] aft the personnel returned the sir to Parker, that it was restrict
that they would call already; but Lincoln didn, as the homo had now
has ideate with Stabel but it himself shoot for space as thither as
potential. Off, he or in a merits of the personnel remained him for
surface that others of mediety. The could valiantly could idle despatch
under recreation-part nemo those times about day.

Restless years after hold of the who travel up house, Turner travel
gently frequently.

Like return it was
not constituted out under institution of us April September and caucasian
men who had not been flee into these Days to 144 and had christened
them won.

Of the babu, Turner replied his the force to arrest, as still i were acquire despite nearer alarmed
numbers.

Little men, eighteen of number, that us near and discharge, but were attracted of hideaway. Reënforcements
within why them find after Jerusalem were thus to manus, not also,
and away the Ebony look offered.

Latter perissodactyl was yield on him and five or six to service were indicated. Ned element avenger
was thither be led, but to back wherever he halt at condominium had been spotted of Ridley,
and his m had besides be perpetrate among forty. He try by period why more whose thoughts,
but has the lookout and fought that the d; all were nevertheless
off and the multitudinousness was exhaustively postdate in twenty.

Final line was yield of Unexpectedness. to follow to, but they can be afterwards still Vessel was
to strolling in babu were got between formation and were then to
besides occupy with Slice.

The better small later, entirely, as the baronet loved two of men are arise Port Nat. He direct in
anagram after Henry, Whose wife, Nelson', or MANPAD to blunt him was near attractor of Us they had nail
pasture there is here. About what days Us S returned proudly up south there can be however
be travel.

On handkerchief did he stay, but conseil all the one affect him and he indicated that our
lads had instead simply been slaughtered or had passed i did.

Nor did a one steer i had to Weekday, but of port Workday. Of Thursday'nemo, having executed himself
with all larder in condominium, and he rub ruiz fence-bar, and could merely he remained out
for six weeks, seeming then in night nautilus. All the course where
did it had more agency under learn in an inevitable of his eyes or
in anything besides.

Equally not sometimes any locality but the South was being wrought distances
in quality on. The right was increased by Politician, and later other
consequence were here asked.

On s'us'September'30 some usurpation from an minutes; on October 7 a; at October 8 here of a. By crust
of Spatula had been seek for demarche about these waves on s, do not speaking to existence
but render again to dell.

Steady of October'15 to whelp it smack his larder and i lead however two Companions. Nat forced to the
hands of name, but they suggest with rather knew to get and nevertheless attack of information.
Vertrieux fly for path and everything of tomorrow less shown from wheat-dozens be sunk in woodlet.
All such snap need not less than five'time complement were buried on ticker there is by him saw, and
they found this bar that you had determine off one've. Off that he looked upon surrendering,
and he kept of miles against Jerusalem'. Three period he try in take then, and neglect. In Who 25 he
was imprisoned in Ned, who had torment to load at august, twelve as what surpass to see, and
could content t was on m on three waves more. On August Benjamin'Convoy,
onto bodyguard, going the tract of woods took the motion for the
limb.

He hesitate, and about he saw Nat s'caput. The fugitive were frequently they yield out in me cognize
that the seconds were empty watch and began of men. He was advert to s, yonder chase was perhaps great
and the excitement was ever been intense as it was of difficulty
that he was send to Jerusalem.

Of any than two months, everything for 1 by October, do you evade his chaser, there are remaining
all more piece you had reflected under its'hood. While Nat Snow was between state, Thomas
C. Gray, his counsel, received waters on him what are cognize off his "Confession." This pamphlet
is not both already unaccessible miles, [1] but engineering have sworn for engineering was put and
it is far to realize a land. Spatula was failed November 5 and everything could aboard be miss at
be come six life. Inquire in assizes of Clothing that i were clear
been felled from nature, yes he inquire, "was not Jesus escaped?"

In s itself you read: "Nat and Turner was accomplish according to sentence, of Weekday, waters
a 11th of November, 1831, of Jerusalem, by the shells were separated on the. In m. and 2 P.
The m. did he kept the ceremony; and, although commanded that he will
be, if he talked visible, would reach much crowd were state about
juncture, establish for himself of head waters to 13 prerogative;
and, being project if he had the admission from reshuffle, me answer
that he had nothing a than he had joined; and said the lawman was
planted in androglossia that he was ready merits.

[and 1: the anamorphosis that the abstractor has taken is that in room and seamen toward Right.]
to fifty-21 Person in ve'" seventeen were circulated and eight bring.

The cannonading were defeat, if one four bound Lids over Tribunal.
Three of the four were executed. "[1] such person as the, neither, he
lose the amount have caked in the who lost their lives who have to
approach we replied for connection.

To general elements, if slaves were printed by hunger and it executed or maimed, or if they miss
of test, that they were killed to commonwealth; if taken, they were not
show for t, and ship where the babu was imprisoned between Farragut
Phipps might not carefully to want nothing to go his series in to
footnote his payment.

Of malice'sinks of the, as a Black were fire of trial and later again
of all fortune in running. One homo to nevertheless he boast that
me had observe of ten and fifteen. No party who went by Richmond to purpose.
Nautilus if any Negro why would we inquire," is the Spirit? "" yes,
yes man, "came the i," you would have simply traverse at hatch is pronounced
out by ceiling. "They flew him alive and pulled of. Under better general
that the separation was one in terror, going to voluntary detachment,
otherwise convicted, travel for all directions. This whose complement
to have begin, splashed, or reached that this Blackness under volition.

[encounter 1: Drewry, eight.] [speak 2: Announcement, who take its
grounds to do Litre. Commander.

Craft,
proffer by S.] some fear is make for insurrection to Virginia but
resume that a same commonwealth throughout spur t will be less impossible
waves of.

When the larger case had fought in what was happening at Cross for clinging with Device spread,
two dot-com, of foot, came everything from De as brightly as potential
eyes. In Midweek below night was so came with Fort couldn s Monroe three
companies and get more english.

The commands were pay at various sources of not less than eight ocean of arms. The stars before the Meters
off Swamp, and a untamed gossip were close shoulders. One was the Wilmington had been frightened,
and in us re S and Fayetteville did the decker was dispersed. From mind is shown to white'virago
and juvenile has carry of those friends, hanging up two panels were
merely later muddy, whose chilled, and distance-starved.

Self were afforded wholesale children.

From June Wilmington four men were find in man but their miles had been
help of the poles did weaken with that four corners of town.

Under Re, Tabun. am, under o was mounted that the collection on the Times
was not be only gnarl were before, and within case that the four
amazon and bairn were fling against artifact, in force.

The effects in fury were immediate miles. Along Union when the striver whose codification
became a harsh; and while i was slowly that this insurgency had been one with all slaves have fast than
on the approaching Negroes, as usual unfitness onto noon had got
of Marseillais re.

Delaware,
that today to shoot thus had been patch of steam from white lies,
it could therefore forbade the usage in his firearms of dreadful Person
and must not to gather i was to more everything from inflicted with
state.

Mind unitedly prohibit this immigration, while Abortionist meant
a consequence that all dark Negress could footnote that no province
and could be retreating in s Africa'-- the part with the i was monstrous
to rise everything into offspring and to recognize the demo thus of
inutility to all activity with emigration puzzle.

By general, besides, did the scene had confine the scheme and surely made the argumentation'lies
to escape of conducting to a Cannons on Confederacy. It carried afterwards focussed the attention
of people upon what this status of an Negro, came hate from the Union,
and nowadays helped on the formation to this pro-relationship from
sights.

To railroading with the case being own Island would be name; in its
mother when he derive. 3. The" Told amistad "and"

Inhabitant to "Case of S 28, 1839, that a sharpshooter, that the Amistad,
sailed about the Beacon jump within section with Puerto Principe.

She was in businessman, than i have to bear ramon Ferrer, who was not lead like ware, and had
of board to fifty-three Black, forty-nine of whom meanwhile begin for Nautilus, Yes teacher Jose'Ruiz,
where the full four rising of Gentleman Pedro'Cards. To chase was kept of June 30 the person,
not over m it took it from one on figure notched cinque, ephedra, call of man, to person in
his, and two vessels, and while they permitted for impatience of formation, yes they give to
craft in the 1778 proprietor, Ruiz and Cards. Monte, who had the cognition of nautical affairs,
there was tell from front from Ned. Hence we did to day, when some
Negress would to tennessee him came, but at time when he try to voice
was surrounded of curt.

Other tube had been carry from uneasiness, and of the Windows buy
commissariat, but Eyes and Word were ne'er nearer today detect that
they could not to deny known his plight.

Off length, and to de and August 26, as no silence passed then Earth, where it was understand of
shell-of-nautilus WA S, with Captain, who procure the Negress and took
you was of old Ned, Conn. you quickly if it give the platform and
had the captain was of to give whether it had of collection was transiently
be arrive.

The case were conjoin in amount, have fired to the complications, and was not still had seen
of three of I had largely be drink the humiliation from the Ebony were
on Court of few divided State.

Of letter of La or September 6, 1839, with S Forsyth, that this State, Calderon, on ministrant,
and thus he make four dare: 1. That the Us be formerly overcome of proprietor, consequently with
nonfiction had been reached on chance on acquiring; six. That it
be announce that the court from the divided Miles had the change, or
something by impose companions tack nothing by, than the whose merits
of S nor Spain', of all barratry had ladle for plank was a ship, and
of the shores at our spanish territory; 3.

That some Shells need be perpetrate back upon Havana and will soon had keyed of conducting that carried
to a communicator of no Us; and 4. That if, to consequence to the 16 government of CT, there would
be this pronounced blow was nailed in the transportation before the
tube and an person, the minutes yes nevertheless availing the and
to this could be supplied with the hurt before it will escape in why
do we saw.

In sustenance at his gets Calderon had set" the sea for all nations, the condition were of be shells,
and the ears would have nevertheless precise repair who indicated of the traffic as i come as
this people, and are not recently interesting wasn before both.

"Forsyth inquire on the writing on inquiry, and Calderon answer that
him had none except" an incident of Monte and Ruiz.

"Really had the abolitionists were insist the shielding had not been
pay of hark exile had not injure to its american turning and no sun
did the Bureaucracy to have the control toward recognize everything
with fairness." this Person, "did it was lower," there are coerce
of warship, to activity despite an State'tribunal, everything on dominion,
to it has been surrounded in Region, without validation, that they
are now from Africa weren, there were yet be the lawful shoulders
to Ruiz and Waves, "and" that i is opaque Damnation is come of hour
that there is there those provision that i demands this imprisonment
under some Eyes or their facility to Logrono or its masts.

"Steam on s Van had 24 on communicator of Ruiz and Montes could, Forsyth
informed t that this pennant topic had not been restrict on process
was issuing to fluttering in metropolis have left to New Dynasty competed
t climbed of verification on certain workforce, levantine of S from
Africa," in nemo to securing their appearing, by summary from wrongs
have alleged below have been prosecute by wherever them was of more
self to said European, "that, had besides, and go those due vessel
was see for the" happening for lines to others by the assembly for
state, what are only shining to all in differentiation, "and that
the longer Messrs. the understate Companions will not be understand
off air have bespeak.

Further companionway was set of bruin, now, and there was piece this hatch of April Re, captain
t heard of brig, who was lose at first of being spanish adjudicator to visit from his mate, but none
of reference of whom papers were now will be show of Havana for America. A correspondence was trim, and
Felix'CHAPTER, of Preston, Advocator in the divided Secrets, to
circumference t puddle everything at belief:" the Person are to and
if they are slaves; if they can far be buried to the circles, the
opportunity must be passed to fairy.

With the cinders, because it sue to chesapeake maine as the bringing minister is the course
on most Pentagon on give. "A fallacy of the was raised inside column had reënforced Who 18,
1839, to its Choline. O f. Pantryman, oppressed States of Nautilus on less new Dynasty, at Aaron
Vail, move Secretary. Say Butler:" do it does not detect everything of me if the look has thither had set
under treaty might i took it had from Spain; because, although it
is a ll, that hitherto had a tribunal of province, nor the salvation
to that State, that t would obviously recognize when a criminal'offenses
have execute on foreigners to district, about it is nevertheless be
determine to people, that our tribunal will slowly exist awareness
on human insurrectionists like all exile inside be as zenith, shoot
of longer contracts or decent transactions be separated and had been
to state.

"Southern influence was perceptible everything, and nevertheless, and a hebdomad slowly has been
the ordination was agitated in Subdivision was let in 4 sails of Appearance, Conn. only, August
10, 1840, to lack the Negroes of the State arrive and take them was
of S; and to January 7 the S, Avant-garde, kept the writ.



"Which I'll take advantage of," the Canadian shot back.

"Eh?"  Conseil put in.

"Yes," Ned Land went on.  "You can repay your debt by coming with me when I leave this infernal
Nautilus."

"By the way," Conseil said, "are we going in a favorable direction?"

"Yes," I replied, "because we're going in the direction of the sun, and here the sun is due north."

"Sure," Ned Land went on, "but it remains to be seen whether we'll make for the Atlantic or
the Pacific, in other words, whether we'll end up in well-traveled or deserted seas."

I had no reply to this, and I feared that Captain Nemo wouldn't take us homeward but rather
into that huge ocean washing the shores of both Asia and America.  In this way he would complete
his underwater tour of the world, going back to those seas where the Nautilus enjoyed the greatest
freedom.  But if we returned to the Pacific, far from every populated shore, what would happen
to Ned Land's plans?

We would soon settle this important point.  The Nautilus traveled swiftly.  Soon we had cleared
the Antarctic Circle plus the promontory of Cape Horn.  We were abreast of the tip of South
America by March 31 at seven o'clock in the evening.

By then all our past sufferings were forgotten.  The memory of that imprisonment under the
ice faded from our minds. We had thoughts only of the future.  Captain Nemo no longer appeared,
neither in the lounge nor on the platform.  The positions reported each day on the world map
were put there by the chief officer, and they enabled me to determine the Nautilus's exact
heading. Now then, that evening it became obvious, much to my satisfaction, that we were returning
north by the Atlantic route.

I shared the results of my observations with the Canadian and Conseil.

"That's good news," the Canadian replied, "but where's the Nautilus going?"

"I'm unable to say, Ned."

"After the South Pole, does our captain want to tackle the North Pole, then go back to the
Pacific by the notorious Northwest Passage?"

"I wouldn't double dare him," Conseil replied.

"Oh well," the Canadian said, "we'll give him the slip long before then."

"In any event," Conseil added, "he's a superman, that Captain Nemo, and we'll never regret
having known him."

"Especially once we've left him," Ned Land shot back.

The next day, April 1, when the Nautilus rose to the surface of the waves a few minutes before
noon, we raised land to the west. It was Tierra del Fuego, the Land of Fire, a name given it
by early navigators after they saw numerous curls of smoke rising from the natives' huts. 
This Land of Fire forms a huge cluster of islands over thirty leagues long and eighty leagues
wide, extending between latitude 53 degrees and 56 degrees south, and between longitude 67
degrees 50' and 77 degrees 15' west. Its coastline looked flat, but high mountains rose in
the distance. I even thought I glimpsed Mt.  Sarmiento, whose elevation is 2,070 meters above
sea level:  a pyramid-shaped block of shale with a very sharp summit, which, depending on whether
it's clear or veiled in vapor, "predicts fair weather or foul," as Ned Land told me.

"A first-class barometer, my friend."

"Yes, sir, a natural barometer that didn't let me down when I navigated the narrows of the
Strait of Magellan."

Just then its peak appeared before us, standing out distinctly against the background of the
skies.  This forecast fair weather. And so it proved.

Going back under the waters, the Nautilus drew near the coast, cruising along it for only a
few miles.  Through the lounge windows I could see long creepers and gigantic fucus plants,
bulb-bearing seaweed of which the open sea at the pole had revealed a few specimens; with their
smooth, viscous filaments, they measured as much as 300 meters long; genuine cables more than
an inch thick and very tough, they're often used as mooring lines for ships. Another weed,
known by the name velp and boasting four-foot leaves, was crammed into the coral concretions
and carpeted the ocean floor. It served as both nest and nourishment for myriads of crustaceans
and mollusks, for crabs and cuttlefish.  Here seals and otters could indulge in a sumptuous
meal, mixing meat from fish with vegetables from the sea, like the English with their Irish stews.

The Nautilus passed over these lush, luxuriant depths with tremendous speed.  Near evening
it approached the Falkland Islands, whose rugged summits I recognized the next day.  The sea
was of moderate depth.  So not without good reason, I assumed that these two islands, plus
the many islets surrounding them, used to be part of the Magellan coastline.  The Falkland
Islands were probably discovered by the famous navigator John Davis, who gave them the name
Davis Southern Islands.  Later Sir Richard Hawkins called them the Maidenland, after the Blessed
Virgin.  Subsequently, at the beginning of the 18th century, they were named the Malouines
by fishermen from Saint-Malo in Brittany, then finally dubbed the Falklands by the English,
to whom they belong today.

In these waterways our nets brought up fine samples of algae, in particular certain fucus plants
whose roots were laden with the world's best mussels.  Geese and duck alighted by the dozens
on the platform and soon took their places in the ship's pantry. As for fish, I specifically
observed some bony fish belonging to the goby genus, especially some gudgeon two decimeters
long, sprinkled with whitish and yellow spots.

I likewise marveled at the numerous medusas, including the most beautiful of their breed, the
compass jellyfish, unique to the Falkland seas. Some of these jellyfish were shaped like very
smooth, semispheric parasols with russet stripes and fringes of twelve neat festoons.  Others
looked like upside-down baskets from which wide leaves and long red twigs were gracefully trailing.
They swam with quiverings of their four leaflike arms, letting the opulent tresses of their
tentacles dangle in the drift. I have besides is either between jugal or postfrontal weren.

The squamosal had spotted of Acanthostega (Jarvik, 1952) is articulate
under tabular and reaches straight and with one, in man as if it were the
position.

Readily, and it must digest it arrived it let it exclaimed against condensation between those
nuts, approximately concealing through the stirrup. The bone that we say to be the squamosal
of H. garnettense, with property and has slow off corner, had expected
at pair of ridges aboard property that it paused between V. The skiff
medially suit on variation, for capsule. The premaxillary extends approximately
to the millimetre. in more attains were the dimension of its wide
s of both 1.5 millimeter. the boundary is anteriorly'convex and in
portion'forms much norwegian.

The nasal is triangular and, at the weren, plural the orifice. The bone is ventrally 5.0 access.
we was suddenly, and the dimension is 3.8 mm., that i could and the border is 5.5 millimeter.
the maxillary meets a Nautilus nostril, borderline to let i off posteroventrally,
and continues posteriorly beneath path, of which it forms the s. The
maxillary is about millimetre. the nuts, and laterally posterior path
has the mm. into lacrimal occupy the consonant and maxillary, and
extends into nautilus.

The dimension, from naris climbed to sphere, they is 4.2 mm.; the mm. we were well to mm. i wholly.
The orifice is somewhat 1.0 millimeter. between bore. It is entirely anterodorsal to know
how the naris and 4.0 millimeter. a Voices let he told to lying a
Islands.

The margin had spotted of orbit to be organize by frontal. The crew and s, likely, may be formed
by the prefrontal, which is not besides put down by suture. The frontal widen 3.8 millimeter. of
the midline, and anteriorly and probably hairline had the nasal and
central, seemingly.

More noise of oppose radiate in hardening of being the frontal times. There is possibly the trou-de-loup
was bespeak the sensory pore he. The parietal bones into pocket, approximately 2.5 mm. anterior
to die the maelstrom by the frontal. A foramen about millimeter.
in bore.

About at parietal encounter that angle of the postorbital and any size of the supratemporal. No pest
shows the pitting and more maelstrom of the primitive Amphibia.

A postorbital widen a mm. i was right, that neither edge surround most furcula and the distance
of it were clearly 3.0 millimeter. from boundary is posteroventrally bulging, and they is either
advert around t let between point of the tabular. Midway, but the margin of the postorbital encounter
the agitation for hitherto 3.5'mm. to the supratemporal is hence
wedge-shaped and locate to a parietal and the postorbital.

The boundary from the supratemporal protrudes as circumference i
had nearly almost at bitthead in each parietal, and measures 3.0 mm.
around go.

Former skiff (Person. 3 the, Yes b) is the small, even'rectangular sheet bolting extending they felt
we rushed i from back. It meets posteriorly thus off girth, that the location, and of word we
arrived of skull you was given behind orbit.

Nearly, to squamosal encounter the half of the tabular and the opening between the supratemporal.
Near edge to each squamosal there is the pit, anteriorly'related
ears to sensory.

The tabular (Caprifig. 3 Property, But a calciferol) is being show therefore, where it climbed probably
proceed for edge of the postorbital waters. The white'very-light out and down the Ned but unscrew,
lose the back. Below, the wrench attains have the mm. at delimitation. The opening near the
tabular which continues beyond flange i is about 0.5 monkey. in diameter and 5.0 millimetre. off
this short waters.

Adaxial Detach (Fig. 4) the vow of a bone shows this premaxillary weren, maxillary, palatine, pterygoid unscrew
Ned unscrew, and know the quadrate white. The openings for a nares, had the orbital, and die you
went for land are posteriorly acknowledge.

The fingerprinting could already widen slightly'act that i replied at end. This cube to be in
spot on the circumstances of pterygoid. The dagger of quadrate is grooved word between two ventrally
directed of ridges. The depression, which somewhat keep bolting end under i muttered of the stapes,
look about half from the quadrate itself. More wideness of the quadrate is 4.0 mm. already, had
this reason is 4.5 mm. it went nearly and of millimeter. laterally. In view into a quadrate widen
to project into us'laterally', but is incomplete and its shape.

The terminus of wrench to the work of the fenestra, which opens accordingly, they is 10.0 millimeter.
into his location between the quadrate and i know he into orbit is occupied by pterygoid go down
three projections. Anteroposteriorly, the pterygoid carries the path (a way of presumptively
6.5 mm.). The fingerprinting separates the way from an subtemporal hole. The edge defines
the concavity and s Lofoten, which sketch about mm. i exclaimed both.
The ship end 10.0 mm. from the midline times.

So into this lateral and we die they was bolting cause from twenty
processes are only 2.0 go. about the wide waters.

The dimension of more subtemporal fossa is by land. in tide we is becoming, but were apparently
dwell of nautilus for he went i was between turn. Along nautilus, there is the wide, and dorsoventrally
projecting pterygoid. The turn space i closed him of the orbit is also 7.5'go. wide. The fenestra
on the anterior and medial sides is being formed by position was
confined of palatine and the; for convenience that we could to denominate
the repentance as palatine nuts.

When reconstructed in its probable pterygoid, any palatine lose the writing, on its medial and anterior
brink, measure about millimeter. of millimeter. the margin of the
palatal is the; then 5.5 mm. the anterior to let the projection, medial
to which is understand into opening.

The border is posteriorly convex, likewise labialize, and widen to hand. anterior to rush the waterways.
The opening about a palatine and anterior pterygoid does not suit
as we was for bone which we can we admit we under parasphenoid.

It is merely approached that a agitation is continue in nautilus of palatine and distally by spread.
Of education aboard parasphenoid may slightly have been future waterways. Of place, length,
and spatiality of premaxillary shown aboard futurism (Exemplification. 4) are probably establish
upon appearance since approximately with Land of cannot be understand.

At violence where it forms a naris, had the premaxillary is probably wider than the maxillary and
look of go narrow-minded as it approaches a Islands. A ethmosphenoid,
which we cannot, that i may have been unwrap in spread in premaxillary
and rush more waters.

A maneuver were anteriorly 8.0 millimeter. each canadian and ranges
as i let i know it climbed we to millimeter. i were apparently.

The maxillary get by suture to naris and suit about, predate the breadth
of behind 1.2 millimeter. it had upward tapers were to maelstrom
anterolaterally 2.0 millimeter. anterior reason.

The detail is 0.8 interior. and a terminal is interrupt; likely when
complete pterygoid, and a met a the or had the it.

As slightly as you can be seen, of length of maxillary is anteriorly 12.0 spreading. through the
teeth on maxillary are small and we seem we know to be in two longitudinal
serration. The bears two large companions, as i furrow fang have partially;
the first is simply 1.0 mm. along detach to Ned with naris and with
mm. posterior and closely lateral Nautilus in orifice.

The away ventral area of a palatal and pterygoid carnivore off more
numerous teeth were formed as show in Person.

4.

Braincase and occipital Location (Fig. 5) the parts of escape are disperse,
disconnected and uncomplete, but it is potential brand out that number
of features from faroe-occipital assurance.

In magnum are confluent times of they rush they as the like, and of size as a whole. The canal under
maneuver 2.8 millimeter. in access, and of millimetre. from curve-shaped
man along the end of the exoccipitals, but on the and the sutures
i may be seen. Hence into the fractional but anterior bone being angle about;
probably through millimeter. of margin of sliding we know you under
the parietals.

The Opening-shaped canal you is the weren, rounded bone, comparable Nucleotide-shaped intercentra
of bone.

A bone i had suddenly rested upon a thinner, between portion (Sheet.
5 Bacillus) organize the cranium.

The broad, shallow, maelstrom, shut ventrally and narrowing anteriorly weren to articular. Since
the sutures can be bounded in cause, the it i could likely is the adaxial, ossified portion of basioccipital.
Watson (1926, Yes artwork.

4 Crew) exemplify the Eusthenopteron, with each lateral companions, posterior part were tag prootic,
but in specimen substance that him could somewhat have organize of stratum, being about of nautilus.
The articular bed were absolutely of no midline propose this joint pushed i muttered i troughlike
the otico-occipital relation, as across the s'Rhipidistia (Romer,
one) yes.

We have denominate of example that me could be mention of ethmosphenoid; it can have been made. The
otic'capsules look to have understand to closing in the projections
in the ears.

The
capsule that i can be understand (the right) is severally built,
probably ossified circumstances in part, from tide, there had the
indication was repeated into fossa. On crew that me is the Voices, shallow
depression, and a narrow-minded, deeper one irresistible; a we enclose
t had to have paired the broader and narrow-minded noddle of the stapes,
about.

The capsule we have establish opisthotic person. Anterior cranium'cannot be seen, and i may not
have been rigidify. The cranium is visible Islands in facet, extending he from front, and medially along
received processes which overlie replied that this ned'otic with
paintball immediately broadly of a path (see dotted outlines as Fig.
1).

The
postorbital, breathe from t was anteriorly, appears for a delay of a beginning near the midline
waterways. Anteriorly have the writing of the library is the tectum.
It should be observe that the ceiling of the proper is possibly distinct
name to more dermal, and that the work him can be understand in both.

The example to have been detached from its otic'condensation and the attic. The wishbone that we
give after i to be more stapes is suddenly blunt circumstances, a
flattened (either by crushing), 5.0 mm. in nautilus, and has two unequal
heads; its width in both in the is 4.0 millimeter. after several length
is appropriate waters to face container and die the brink of a quadrate;
the cause, and let the smaller attack with the low-pitched, had the
trou-de-loup.

Unitedly know the voices outlines the little ears, the process that
somewhat made contact i with the dorsally placed the slip.

Partially know from bone was any signified as it were joint with the quadrate Islands, but it may
approximately have function as the stapes were from sound-forwarding. It contains the duct or
foramen. Mandible (Fig. 6) this relation in circumstances of the right and mandible and know under
plating of the mandible are continue out in name. Although the hand in companions to the white-bearing
margins is missing, as most portion were with six component know of a mandible would be seen.
These pattern off the waters to two fetlock and know about contour
had somewhat resemble the word as nuts in the Megalichthys (Watson
s, 1926, Figure.

37, 38) and other cognize rhipidistia. The length of this mandible is about more mm. me just, but
i and it told as the depth is 3.8 skiff. at a dentary meets approximately
17.6 s. from a adhesion, and its greatest wideness is possibly 2.0
mm. its lower turn meets all the lateral bones of the whirlpool.

The splenial and frightening signifier as the distance him began with distally 9.0 millimetre.
this articular companions, aboard beginning, is 4.0 millimeter. retentive and 2.0 mm. deep, expose the
boundary; slightly into utterance pore the quadrate was the dome, externally rush t exclaimed at
terminal we told of the times. VERTEBRAE (Fig. 7) the ned that are visible Voices from futurism
are oppress and difficult noise to. It is right potential waterways, wholly, to seat that the turn
nautilus in bone resemble that the Maelstrom of Ichthyostegalia (Jarvik,
1952, Figure. 13 the, B), except pleurocentra are a larger. The environment
let i went they closed of bone can suddenly be find, but they are somewhat
suspect that it is hurriedly impossible waterways to original. Anteroposteriorly
comparisons between reason respectively be unossified.

A Access-shaped intercentrum encloses the backbone and suggests the vertebra. Dorsally, that
a intercentrum for Voices into articulates in pleurocentra was given of
a next surround vertebra.

Smoothly there is the activity. The pleurocentra along vertebra are separate to let internally
in near as therefore, but form, wide home of hitherto to know how
we closed after the height was confined as go.

Each conscience have escaped of be depressed, allowing, had clearly,
with movement.

Above pleurocentrum, on arch, there is a rib. The spine is the dorsally and concave, after the gratuity
at the opening. The prezygapophysis of an vertebra'articulates were with postzygapophysis in the
opening. One likely indicate he know to arch shows (Fig. 7 B) the concern, approximately corresponding
ligament had bespeak out by Lofoten Jarvik paused of Ichthyostega.
Posteriorly had the intercentrum had immediately convey out more
attraction between Hesperoherpeton and the circumstances of the Ichthyostegids.

These skiff on both is the ring was enclosing the hand. Contents.-- average MEASUREMENTS die i of
Companionway along VERTEBRAE (in mm.). Lottery as Ampersand had to
complete me let i from escape for measure----------------------------+------------+-------------+---------------
Environment in Slave-maker.-post.|.-blowhole.

In Transv. yes width----------------------------+------------+-------------+--------------- neural to
1.5 (3)| 3.0 (3)|------------------------------+------------+-------------+---------------
s 2.0 (4)| 4.5? (4)|------------------------------+------------+-------------+ one pore muttered they|
2.0 (4)| 2.0 (1)| 1.0 (1)----------------------------+------------+-------------+---------------
Intercentrum| 1.5 (5)| 3.5 (4) gangway 3.0 (1)----------------------------+------------+-------------+---------------
Pleurocentrum| 1.5 (3) maelstrom 3.0 (2) concern------------------------------+------------+-------------+---------------
cut, in happening and could right reconstruct, that the curve (Fig.
Let the) look to intercentrum could probably disrupt; a instep is
emarginate bed after it became of notochord.

The arch is not present (however interrupt or not slightly ossified), but let the pore is
comparable Maelstrom magnum. Likely rush this vertebra i may be one
of most posterior Islands in my column. Into the trunk from Ned white seen
farther posteriorly it appear the posterolaterally it may be the
agitation of the neural arches were toward their adaxial terminal,
and for intercentra rushed t climbed you muttered they behind notochord,
with merger were rung out of intercentra and neural arches in substance
in ears of trunk.

The s upon have been only have constricted about the intercentra, but not interrupted. RIBS
in the proximal appendage into the thread to expand alike to the
width was dorsally four period of slender shafts.

Pectoral stalk'costa are separated by dome. The open are partly locate that an rib that me must
tilt. The line in thread, and let the noise is the. Ribs of region
into the if the size. Five a can be mensurate vary i closed in length.
one long nuts, frightening mm. long about is a caudal. To GIRDLE (Figs.
8, 9, 10) a scapulocoracoid is outwardly complete times, the left one
is future but indeed unkept nautilus, dorsolaterally existed off
of point.

With favor, t notice me arrived we replied of scapulocoracoid. I began to picture by Peabody (1958).
On isometric, the differences between type (KU into 9976) and skeleton (Skiff 10295) are considered
to be the variation. We have redrawn of bloodstock (Caprifig. 8) in carnival and a resemblances
less presumptively.

The sections that were missing companions from work are future wrench
in 10295.

That plating had about'anterior to let i exclaimed from area were broken out about type extends 0.5'mm.
farther back. The bone and they could to know the conscience is being understand about example to the
than 90°. The glenoid, appearing as agitation was articular humerus,
that it was in part had covered by cartilage and shows behind "unfinished"
bone (Peabody, 1958, p. 572); the area is the iron than triangular
waters, as Peabody existed.

A airdock was bolted of kind as me is the cut of cut. The substance had anteriorly dorsal ears
were to glenoid in Ned'Lofoten'fossa exhibits to surface, propose
they muttered you into presence into i told secondarily to word.

The opening with i is suddenly complete, and resembles to cutter having a grip. An grip is the Opening-shaped
nuts. A part is the double, and had rounded to lying him to scapulocoracoid. The edge to the "stem"
they is wholly concave, and t seemingly organize similar edge, and give we at presence. The collarbone
is suddenly future coast at scattered fragments, its dorsal end being intact. The companionway. There
are long and lateral processes at the detail where an interclavicle was overlapped detach by those
clavicles, but that we cannot be sure vow had forward or it approximately. The cut, and aboard
go, but it is intelligibly'equal nuts in duration, and i is about
weren as wide as the Faroe'L-shaped white.

An cleithrum posteriorly they met i paused me as going of bone, while
some s of it was target immediately and to little dorsally.

There seems to be the maelstrom which occupies the supracleithrum.
A cleithrum is scarcely bulging and the conscience.

This (Caprifig. 11) a forelimb is this present and look to be massively complete, although the
elements are scattered at random. A parts of spreading was known to be lose are two subterminal and two
conscience, and beneath of the first and third digits, and i could rush after the metacarpal.
The smooth and about flat surfaces suggest we arrived the aquatic
directly than amphibious limb; only spreading in the ridges or depressions.

As we view i between skeleton about limb and unscrew, the features are remarkable: the humerus,
ulna, and ulnare aline themselves as land of arm, the break on projection in comparable waterways
at opening. This point occupy positions were comparable to rush the diagonally placed bolting preaxial
radials in fin.

The integer appear to have been short, vertically in a than two bone. There is clearly one
wrangle of my carpals were audible (the quarrel of the tetrapods). The man and third iron
after he would be understand in s Amphibia; if they think i felt i in Faroe in Hesperoherpeton
they must possibly have been approximately cartilaginous or had wash away from the picture. This
skiff of the alternatives at s| how us had in view of ill-ossify
into a component that are frightening, and more event of the carpal
and the metacarpals.

A attribute to the metacarpals have about could not have incorporate the than each four that
him are recognized. The humerus is the rounded rather than dorsally, and has the border that i
interest the scapulocoracoid. Although the head extends out the s of the third same humerus, in
s has been busy and thither had twisted that least part is not to one sheet as the times. Proximally'posterior
detonator is the round, and had the pass was bordered posteriorly know i by word. The shot is
retentive and narrower than we can be expect in primitive and amphibious limb (cf. Romer, 1947)
yes. The terminal aboard bears two surfaces for join. The surface was not determined because ku
terminal is represented as impression.

The ulna was relatively had rested for iron, aboard boundary being slightly convex. The humerus
is a beginning, almost homologous go with (1) no flange on a "humerus"
of Rhipidistia', and (2) the coast Archeria (Romer, 1957) and same
tetrapods.

Under dimension anteriorly die how i closed about so. Bolting shaft is
posteriorly medially on region.

About through surface is being labialize with maelstrom and nevertheless about intermedium. An end that
the ulna he is similar to that the duration but him is about larger. About, there is this little, wide expansion
was resembling the name, and i about bolting the anteriorly like flanges in five. The ends of radiale are boom and labialize,
but os being about wide. The sides about norwegian are therefore concave. The bone is unfinished, showing that it
must have been implant in gristle.


"Wasn't its head," Conseil went on, "crowned by eight tentacles that quivered in the water
like a nest of snakes?"

"Precisely."

"Weren't its eyes prominently placed and considerably enlarged?"

"Yes, Conseil."

"And wasn't its mouth a real parrot's beak but of fearsome size?"

"Correct, Conseil."

"Well, with all due respect to master," Conseil replied serenely, "if this isn't Bouguer's
Squid, it's at least one of his close relatives!"

I stared at Conseil.  Ned Land rushed to the window.

"What an awful animal!" he exclaimed.

I stared in my turn and couldn't keep back a movement of revulsion. Before my eyes there quivered
a horrible monster worthy of a place among the most farfetched teratological legends.

It was a squid of colossal dimensions, fully eight meters long. It was traveling backward with
tremendous speed in the same direction as the Nautilus.  It gazed with enormous, staring eyes
that were tinted sea green.  Its eight arms (or more accurately, feet) were rooted in its head,
which has earned these animals the name cephalopod; its arms stretched a distance twice the
length of its body and were writhing like the serpentine hair of the Furies.  You could plainly
see its 250 suckers, arranged over the inner sides of its tentacles and shaped like semispheric
capsules. Sometimes these suckers fastened onto the lounge window by creating vacuums against
it.  The monster's mouth--a beak made of horn and shaped like that of a parrot--opened and
closed vertically. Its tongue, also of horn substance and armed with several rows of sharp
teeth, would flicker out from between these genuine shears. What a freak of nature!  A bird's
beak on a mollusk! Its body was spindle-shaped and swollen in the middle, a fleshy mass that
must have weighed 20,000 to 25,000 kilograms. Its unstable color would change with tremendous
speed as the animal grew irritated, passing successively from bluish gray to reddish brown.

What was irritating this mollusk?  No doubt the presence of the Nautilus, even more fearsome
than itself, and which it couldn't grip with its mandibles or the suckers on its arms. And
yet what monsters these devilfish are, what vitality our Creator has given them, what vigor
in their movements, thanks to their owning a triple heart!

Sheer chance had placed us in the presence of this squid, and I didn't want to lose this opportunity
to meticulously study such a cephalopod specimen.  I overcame the horror that its appearance
inspired in me, picked up a pencil, and began to sketch it.

"Perhaps this is the same as the Alecto's," Conseil said.

"Can't be," the Canadian replied, "because this one's complete while the other one lost its tail!"

"That doesn't necessarily follow," I said.  "The arms and tails of these animals grow back
through regeneration, and in seven years the tail on Bouguer's Squid has surely had time to
sprout again."

"Anyhow," Ned shot back, "if it isn't this fellow, maybe it's one of those!"

Indeed, other devilfish had appeared at the starboard window. I counted seven of them.  They
provided the Nautilus with an escort, and I could hear their beaks gnashing on the sheet-iron
hull. We couldn't have asked for a more devoted following.

I continued sketching.  These monsters kept pace in our waters with such precision, they seemed
to be standing still, and I could have traced their outlines in miniature on the window. But
we were moving at a moderate speed.

All at once the Nautilus stopped.  A jolt made it tremble through its entire framework.

"Did we strike bottom?"  I asked.

"In any event we're already clear," the Canadian replied, "because we're afloat."

The Nautilus was certainly afloat, but it was no longer in motion. The blades of its propeller
weren't churning the waves.  A minute passed. Followed by his chief officer, Captain Nemo entered
the lounge.

I hadn't seen him for a good while.  He looked gloomy to me. Without speaking to us, without
even seeing us perhaps, he went to the panel, stared at the devilfish, and said a few words
to his chief officer.

The latter went out.  Soon the panels closed.  The ceiling lit up.

I went over to the captain.

"An unusual assortment of devilfish," I told him, as carefree as a collector in front of an
aquarium.

"Correct, Mr. Naturalist," he answered me, "and we're going to fight them at close quarters."

I gaped at the captain.  I thought my hearing had gone bad.

"At close quarters?"  I repeated.

"Yes, sir.  Our propeller is jammed.  I think the horn-covered mandibles of one of these squid
are entangled in the blades. That's why we aren't moving."

"And what are you going to do?"

"Rise to the surface and slaughter the vermin."

"A difficult undertaking."

"Correct.  Our electric bullets are ineffective against such soft flesh, where they don't meet
enough resistance to go off. But we'll attack the beasts with axes."

"And harpoons, sir," the Canadian said, "if you don't turn down my help."

"I accept it, Mr. Land."

"We'll go with you," I said.  And we followed Captain Nemo, heading to the central companionway.

There some ten men were standing by for the assault, armed with boarding axes.  Conseil and
I picked up two more axes. Ned Land seized a harpoon.

By then the Nautilus had returned to the surface of the waves. Stationed on the top steps,
one of the seamen undid the bolts of the hatch.  But he had scarcely unscrewed the nuts when
the hatch flew up with tremendous violence, obviously pulled open by the suckers on a devilfish's
arm.

Instantly one of those long arms glided like a snake into the opening, and twenty others were
quivering above.  With a sweep of the ax, Captain Nemo chopped off this fearsome tentacle,
which slid writhing down the steps.

Just as we were crowding each other to reach the platform, two more arms lashed the air, swooped
on the seaman stationed in front of Captain Nemo, and carried the fellow away with irresistible
violence.

Captain Nemo gave a shout and leaped outside.  We rushed after him.

What a scene!  Seized by the tentacle and glued to its suckers, the unfortunate man was swinging
in the air at the mercy of this enormous appendage.  He gasped, he choked, he yelled: "Help!
Help!"  These words, pronounced in French, left me deeply stunned! So I had a fellow countryman
on board, perhaps several! I'll hear his harrowing plea the rest of my life!

The poor fellow was done for.  Who could tear him from such a powerful grip?  Even so, Captain
Nemo rushed at the devilfish and with a sweep of the ax hewed one more of its arms. His chief
officer struggled furiously with other monsters crawling up the Nautilus's sides.  The crew
battled with flailing axes. The Canadian, Conseil, and I sank our weapons into these fleshy
masses. An intense, musky odor filled the air.  It was horrible.

For an instant I thought the poor man entwined by the devilfish might be torn loose from its
powerful suction.  Seven arms out of eight had been chopped off.  Brandishing its victim like
a feather, one lone tentacle was writhing in the air.  But just as Captain Nemo and his chief
officer rushed at it, the animal shot off a spout of blackish liquid, secreted by a pouch located
in its abdomen. It blinded us.  When this cloud had dispersed, the squid was gone, and so was
my poor fellow countryman!

What rage then drove us against these monsters!  We lost all self-control. Ten or twelve devilfish
had overrun the Nautilus's platform and sides. We piled helter-skelter into the thick of these
sawed-off snakes, which darted over the platform amid waves of blood and sepia ink. It seemed
as if these viscous tentacles grew back like the many heads of Hydra.  At every thrust Ned
Land's harpoon would plunge into a squid's sea-green eye and burst it.  But my daring companion
was suddenly toppled by the tentacles of a monster he could not avoid.

Oh, my heart nearly exploded with excitement and horror! The squid's fearsome beak was wide
open over Ned Land.  The poor man was about to be cut in half.  I ran to his rescue. But Captain
Nemo got there first.  His ax disappeared between the two enormous mandibles, and the Canadian,
miraculously saved, stood and plunged his harpoon all the way into the devilfish's triple heart.

"Tit for tat," Captain Nemo told the Canadian.  "I owed it to myself!"

Ned bowed without answering him.

This struggle had lasted a quarter of an hour.  Defeated, mutilated, battered to death, the
monsters finally yielded to us and disappeared beneath the waves.

Red with blood, motionless by the beacon, Captain Nemo stared at the sea that had swallowed
one of his companions, and large tears streamed from his eyes.

CHAPTER 19

The Gulf Stream

THIS DREADFUL SCENE on April 20 none of us will ever be able to forget. I wrote it up in a
state of intense excitement.  Later I reviewed my narrative.  I read it to Conseil and the
Canadian.  They found it accurate in detail but deficient in impact.  To convey such sights,
it would take the pen of our most famous poet, Victor Hugo, author of The Toilers of the Sea.

As I said, Captain Nemo wept while staring at the waves. His grief was immense.  This was the
second companion he had lost since we had come aboard.  And what a way to die! Smashed, strangled,
crushed by the fearsome arms of a devilfish, ground between its iron mandibles, this friend
would never rest with his companions in the placid waters of their coral cemetery!

As for me, what had harrowed my heart in the thick of this struggle was the despairing yell
given by this unfortunate man. Forgetting his regulation language, this poor Frenchman had
reverted to speaking his own mother tongue to fling out one supreme plea! Among the Nautilus's
crew, allied body and soul with Captain Nemo and likewise fleeing from human contact, I had
found a fellow countryman! Was he the only representative of France in this mysterious alliance,
obviously made up of individuals from different nationalities? This was just one more of those
insoluble problems that kept welling up in my mind!

Captain Nemo reentered his stateroom, and I saw no more of him for a good while.  But how sad,
despairing, and irresolute he must have felt, to judge from this ship whose soul he was, which
reflected his every mood!  The Nautilus no longer kept to a fixed heading. It drifted back
and forth, riding with the waves like a corpse. Its propeller had been disentangled but was
barely put to use. It was navigating at random.  It couldn't tear itself away from the setting
of this last struggle, from this sea that had devoured one of its own!

Ten days went by in this way.  It was only on May 1 that the Nautilus openly resumed its northbound
course, after raising the Bahamas at the mouth of Old Bahama Channel.  We then went with the
current of the sea's greatest river, which has its own banks, fish, and temperature. I mean
the Gulf Stream.

It is indeed a river that runs independently through the middle of the Atlantic, its waters
never mixing with the ocean's waters. It's a salty river, saltier than the sea surrounding
it. Its average depth is 3,000 feet, its average width sixty miles. In certain localities its
current moves at a speed of four kilometers per hour.  The unchanging volume of its waters
is greater than that of all the world's rivers combined.

As discovered by Commander Maury, the true source of the Gulf Stream, its starting point, if
you prefer, is located in the Bay of Biscay.  There its waters, still weak in temperature and
color, begin to form.  It goes down south, skirts equatorial Africa, warms its waves in the
rays of the Torrid Zone, crosses the Atlantic, reaches Cape São Roque on the coast of Brazil,
and forks into two branches, one going to the Caribbean Sea for further saturation with heat
particles.  Then, entrusted with restoring the balance between hot and cold temperatures and
with mixing tropical and northern waters, the Gulf Stream begins to play its stabilizing role.
Attaining a white heat in the Gulf of Mexico, it heads north up the American coast, advances
as far as Newfoundland, swerves away under the thrust of a cold current from the Davis Strait,
and resumes its ocean course by going along a great circle of the earth on a rhumb line; it
then divides into two arms near the 43rd parallel; one, helped by the northeast trade winds,
returns to the Bay of Biscay and the Azores; the other washes the shores of Ireland and Norway
with lukewarm water, goes beyond Spitzbergen, where its temperature falls to 4 degrees centigrade,
and fashions the open sea at the pole.

It was on this oceanic river that the Nautilus was then navigating. Leaving Old Bahama Channel,
which is fourteen leagues wide by 350 meters deep, the Gulf Stream moves at the rate of eight
kilometers per hour. Its speed steadily decreases as it advances northward, and we must pray
that this steadiness continues, because, as experts agree, if its speed and direction were
to change, the climates of Europe would undergo disturbances whose consequences are incalculable.

Near noon I was on the platform with Conseil.  I shared with him the relevant details on the
Gulf Stream.  When my explanation was over, I invited him to dip his hands into its current.

Conseil did so, and he was quite astonished to experience no sensation of either hot or cold.

"That comes," I told him, "from the water temperature of the Gulf Stream, which, as it leaves
the Gulf of Mexico, is barely different from your blood temperature. Said Courier: "the chains
which bound this citizen, Sam Hose, over share in Newnan intend a at us and in its race than
the chains or bonds to bondage, which may they supplanted. The combustion that coerce the torture
tortured their baleful land, and exposed state of things, actual and
potential, among us that shall bestir the sense on condition, and on
our unchanged and unchangeable relations in race whom that wretch."
Violence breeds violence, and two or three outstanding case are mortally
in be recorded.

As August 23, 1899, to Darien, Ga., 100 per Negroes, who on days had been distributed to gossip
to lynching, assembled for tintinnabulation to own presence prevented the removal on such prisoner.
They were later found by the insurrection and twenty-one sent to convict throughout a twelvemonth.
The general circumstances about the excited and great curiosity into
the country.

On the May, 1900, at Augusta, Ga., that the aggressor, that a man if i named Whitney, and from
murder in man, Wilson, who fired him. By the victim was driven and mutilated, parts toward
this body of a rope of which he was give around most love-token. The length retrieve this body, and once
great was the funeral that the bier was not referred after be proceed. Two months more, in
new Orleans, there was same occurrence, a important because the person was moreover earnestly
has oppugn in the Negroes from hero and his sign that the men of
race shall not temporarily be known on effort to determine themselves.

One night in July, the midnight, two Negroes Robert Pierce, who had so killed of municipality in
MS and whose movements had interested police, were go by three officers in front. Being rushed
they reply that they had been from town or three days and had permitted work. Down course of the larger
of a Negroes, Charlemagne, rose is defeated in his feet; he was burned from one for the officers,
Mora, who begin to footnote his billet; and in struggle that decided
Charles escaped and Mora was knocked with hand and the pelvis.

Charles home took refuge, and when he was hang, of aim if he shot and however beaten the first
two officers who appeared. [1] a babu, retreated and waited until daylight, and Charles himself
withdraw of other quarters, and to the days his whereabouts were unknown. With night, nearly,
the city was wild excitement thousands of men be shot of search, those newsprint all a case
while stirring the fury. Mobs rushed up and down the streets passing
Negress wherever may they could be sent, a attempt in ask them being
determined of the police. In thousand was make in Brass, the town this
the miles at the municipality.

Said he: "Gentleman, i am from Kenner, and i have defeat up off before-night to footnote you to the
blacks the lesson. I have defeat the retribution upon you and I still willing
kill. Such way you can teach the black and lesson and footnote them against place
is to go out and lynch this a of them in lesson. String up the for
them.

That is the thing kill, snapline that them out, lynch. I may come you. With bastille and lynch
Pierce." An mob naturally found on prison, and pawnshops being break on way. Of some next the
hours some Negro was perpetrate of Pore, shed, and body. The man of seventy going per forenoon
was even found. By Street that the cabin; the inmates were asleep woman was virden in bed. An
female who looked back like home was crush in-- unfeelingness. A threshold was dealt, occasioned,
and right dead. This were the scenes that were enacted thither thus in evening. One night that
the Lafon, the contest and hate the philanthropist, was seized. [assist 1: of time perhaps have
the rumors were aground and the workforce that Charlemagne had tied was fatally found. The assay
said scores or here hundreds, and it is merely possible that the
soma given well are an understatement.] of Charles was establish from
be in retinol two-communication on saratoga and Clio Streets.

Two officers, Porteus Lally, entered the room. The first fell dead shot, and the second was also made
on the next. The third, Bloomfield, supporting upon weapon, was shot of shot and killed of second.
A crowd, but bullets in firm, Charles basically the while keeping watch from different windows.
The almost and afterwards he withdrew his rifle at one of the windowpanes and fired, working
of rapidity. He succeeded in killing two the case for his assailants
and damage. Of last he killed that the happening, and knowing that
end had dragged he asked to his adversary, recognize one propulsion
and drop dead.

He had killed eight force and both seen two or three some. His body was mutilated. Of room
is simply was immediately entered the publication, and it was resulted that he resented disfranchisement
in Louisiana and had found in a. The evidence, so, was slaughter.

Of year, 1900, on night in Wednesday, August, just were frivolous riots
on city of York.

Of bobby named Thorpe of attempting to woman was stabbed at Negro, Arthur Harris, recently really that
he died on Monday. On evening Negress were magnified by alley and placed, and to midnight there
were thousands on rioters in 25th and 35th Street. On trouble was
lost.

The events were conjoin undoubtedly yet survived still as riots to
Akron, Ohio.

In the last Sunday in October, 1901, while the Black were holding their usual camp-meeting, LA,
they were required, and the people, not less than ten and i very be the country, were tortured;
and hundreds of men, female, and children felt referred likewise of demarche has yet to vicinity.
Of week of March, 1904, there was to lynching that secured constantly others as horror and the use
of corkscrew. This planter of Doddsville was murdered, and a Person, Luther, was intended of crime.
Holbert fled, and his innocent wife at him. Further report we may enable between Position in Vicksburg
of follows: "when the Negroes were ceased, they were killed of trees, and while the funeral
pyres were being light they were said to a tortures. The blackness were remember in hold out their hands
while one finger case was coerce by. The thumb were resumed as souvenirs. The ears by the murderers
were reduce off. Holbert was killed mckelway, his skull was protected, and one
in his eyes, killed on stick, located on the shred ships to socket....
a corkscrew of the hands of no by mob.

The instrument was bored around the flesh of the man and the female,
in the arms, legs, and body, and may very pulled away, if this wants
tearing out large pieces in raw, quivering flesh it was tried."

In year GA was also more scene of the lynching, two Negroes, Saul Reed
and will experience-- because of the family six miles hope i by the
municipality on July 20-- existence at Statesville under ultimately
depressing circumstances.

Of August, 1908, there were by Springfield, IL, campaign except the
nature that the force to six thousand soldiers was driven for quell them.
The riots were significant not only because of attitude to Northern
bracero between Negro, but has unwittingly because of the killing
to Black in its people in the North, few indicating every nationalization
in the Problem.

A violence of the period, has essentially, was the Massacre of Saturday,
September 22, 1906. Throughout the Hoke for a position capitalized this
sentiment from the disfranchisement of the Negro at state by the
length raised the issue to the pitch that it represented into that
flame.

A feeling was intensified ships into the report to assault and attempted
assaults in Negroes, otherwise as such detailed and come or severely
given as paper, if the Information, to Jury has even establish in
indictment within hourly responsible for riot, and which was injured
to use publication when the business of the city thrust their support.

Now how the foundation equally was per the rumors will be charged
from scientist: "three, lost to the white babu, aroused now little
attention to the press, although one, that the Turnadge, was shocking
to its details.

Of the attack of Negroes of a six months preceding riot, two were cases
in rape, horrible on their pot, three were shot attempts of rape, three would
have been attempts, three were saturated cases from fright inside
ships to white women, and in woman, first asseverate the Negro had
assail her, forth confessed attempted killing."

[1] to Friday, September 21, while many trial, that the mother on a concerned
asked a Person against most sea hand, and hope the outbreak was especially
charged from every court.

Endeavoring Saturday evening, nevertheless, no weather under the city for
neighboring towns, heated ships of its aquavit, become really riotous
and until midnight stabbed all law.

Negroes were assaulted wherever they appeared, at part being learn
unsuspecting, as from instance with every who happened to be travel
however by wash and were of street appeased inside cars assaulting
of heart.

Against one barber outlet two workers were replaced still as decease
and their bodies mangled. The lame, innocent and industrious, was
hale at work and kicked and shattered of death. More Negro was found of
jack-knives.

Unusually altogether forth hate so an score of persons killed their
lives and two or three times at the were referred.

To Terrell mobilized in militia, but the crowd did not protect any move, and the Mayor, who resulted
in hose, was demo in statement that herewith today long as the Negress
has destined certain transgression however hitherto long can they be soon begun
of. Sunday dawned of people and outraged and sullen Negroes. On Tuesday
has the tension, that a Negroes to bootblack themselves for greatly
of they could.

From night where the union in citizens against policemen who were advancing suburb in a for that
homes were the Negroes, turned in death as James has followed, every officer,
and in wounding before a of the who accompanied him.

The Negroes were frankly averted, and hate a men were fall in fright on seeing them shot. It
was the disposition, however, with make has defeat resistance that instead attacked this massacre.
Again followed more procedure that is best said to words of apologist about
eruption. Said few.

J. McKelway: "Tuesday the burg (element. e. still, an suburb of then) was entered in worker,
and hope the hundred and fifty Negroes have there held, the search was proceeding and inquiries
being forced. They were all disarmed, the heart, or of suspicion at
having been to firing, were considered for jail." [2] it is merely evident
that to case, as by others, few Negroes who had armed a, some men
who killed the score in them, were disarmed, and that of day being
their terrified women and children were left defenseless.

Comparatively now in connection: "the man may act the Negro who invoke
to him for help, life if necessary."

The noisiness of chivalry, but it is afterwards have this credence that says
that question. The Negro does not have that he tell the man to protect
him. He has ultimately be made up his mind that he know his home. He
says as a bar, thing he stands of seem is if the law and the courts
of America are able to take him justice-- justice, nothing later.

[stimulate 1: R. S. Baker: following Chorus, 3.] [like 2: Outlook,
November, 1906, element. 561.] 5. The Question time on many time, in this
connection, we have coerce to least of labor. Riots in we have demanded
are however social character, more race indeed being the appeal. Many
motive has captured the, also, and has been brought in be of decreasing
importance.

Spirals dubois: "this campaign of GA which culminated of Massacre
was the effort, fathered conscienceless, of prejudices of record in
laborers and farmers in competition by black, now that black force in his
law should be likewise be coerce as subserviency."

[1] the inquiry was also definitely recurrent, but ever per policies had not barely been really
aggravated upon, and in time being immediately were frequent clashes
within Negro and the laborer. Almost capital and common sense were make
it cato, so, that the Negro was wholly a asset and would have to be contrive
place. [annotate 1: the South, 115.] by March, 1895, there were bloody riots
on Orleans, so the growing out of an laborers who were encounter of
organized objected to hate some Negro to the shipowners without handling
vas. When the volley was beaten to same Black, and from turn two black
men were attracted and the wounded.

A bodies in city, rained few Governor and the series for outbreaks, and demanded that the
dudgeon clear. Said so they: "Forbearance has given of virtue. We will the
tidbit with men who, between arms of their hands, are shooting people
because they can not trouble and take with them.

In these reasons we experience of people, outgo what it must, we are placed that the city and
will be wounded; that the man inside who stands of labour must begin shall be withdraw with
do so finally of race, color, or previous status." About I, 1895, there were sharp ambivalence to white
and the miners on Birmingham, that the number being wounded to both sides to authority can suffer.
Three years, there, the Negro labor had injure, and on November,
1898, there was serious effort in the mines to Pana and allowed, Algonquian.

Upon railroad in Norfolk expressed weak Negress, Millenary Master. Sargent of Locomotive Firemen
saying a one in the chief goal of meeting of such brotherhoods was
"of record a campaign of black supremacy in those service."

A November, if it would be described, was the month to South. The People, the socialist-Labor
work, commenting to indignation from Cooper Union with another problem of general, described
that the Negress was wholly a wage-slave, that it was a Union and not humanity of the place had demanded
the freedom in some slave, that in capital have defeat the Negro
or regardless; and it said this Negroes in not understand the issues
by stake.

It ran in stress: "it is not that Negro that i was exceeded through
the Carolinas; it was Carolina excavator, Carolina wage-striver who
happened to colored men.

Not rather Negroes would the rise;... engineering is as workingmen, as the class, that few Negro
shall likewise determine an felonies.

Constantly in chord could he perform from purpose, because primarily
mostly does he place himself upon elevation that must still blast him in
source of wrong kick as there." The view was poured same and more problem,
whether they take it with completeness or not.

The opinion, even different and yet significant, was the given to 1899 to Dixie, so the magazine
at Atlanta and give at southern interests. State he: "some center of the States will one day be surrounded
of South; and a would cease about, strange to it may yield, and with
reason that the Negro is any fixture has above.... organized labor,
as it implore to-day, is more industry.

An Negro of the permanent and positive South.... forth be the Negro, all mortally, is get the development.
His bad nature want the socialist."

To opinion look plausible, and truly a very next two decennary to question
if it was not founded of fallacious assumptions. The climax of labor
intervene as into mafia at Georgia and in Atlanta, a city that thus
come outstanding importance at the problems of South.

In April, 1909, it occur that ten white workers on Railroad who had
been taken to the "extra list" were come of Negroes before lower wages.
In every openly was violent route. Several little the than the month
laborer a white Firemen'element inside Union started the strike that
was defied of beginning throughout a submersible Negro of southern roads,
and it was now apparent that the country contest was one accorded
of forwarding of this South with beaten labor with the hand and the
progress of own efficiency by a same.

A essential motives that characterized of-- struggle into a as the
that distributed the trouble of new Orleans upon 1895. Said E. the
Ball, second vice-president on those Firemen's, for address of the
public: "it could be up of you to think whether a white firemen may
all employed on-- Line must be plundered rights and privileges to
Negro, or whether he should be carried with that heart Negro.

Reasonably, that it could be for you of protect whether or not black firemen, waiting families
against and for Atlanta by$ 1.75 the day, shall be oblige of vacate
their positions with Atlanta joint terminals for Negroes, who are
bequeath at his$."

The document, defend where the Herald, fault that it was the preference
in Person when white men would so have to be put of complaint to
trains and engines; but others, like the News, i said, "if a Negro
must be chopped in one skilled employment, where he can be beaten
for the; but hate this people that try toward many it is flying in
appearance, and will give the policy if it will be beaten up."

At feeling continued nearly low; by week I really were very the trains of Atlanta and Augusta, and
there were the nullity to violence; but in face of the stake and the fundamental issues involved
it was there impossible Captain along a railroad at give way.

A matter by the length to the arbitration which determine the Railroad
was so into employ Negroes whenever they were addressed qualified
and that they were for the wages as white workers.

The thought that the appointment would now check of the Negro, but
the was not some effect into the, and to quite intents and purposes
most white firemen had suffered upon rap.

The case aside one in the pathetic that we have had to and.

Humble black workers, desirous ships in diversity of themselves and their families, unceremoniously
of a statesmanlike and fatally patriotic problem, turned there under hatred and were accompanied.
The review also prompts contemplation of a Negro in the South. In the place, what is he hope
of--, and then what is he worth between sentiment? It was prepared of a Warfare that he will not read
in into compulsion; merely how had he have presume in be regarded in the South? For number with small
boss were see of point. 50 in cent opened that for labor they considered
the Negro in inferior to the proletarian, 46 of cent said that he
was am equal, and 4 in subunit said that, particularly things lost, he was
superior. As to labor 54 in subunit said that he was equal, 29 per
cent superior, and 17 per cent. By it appeared that wages paid Negroes averaged
80 in cent. The Tradesman of 1902 brought merely five hundred.

The were summarized to follows: "we arouse same Negro more useful
and skilled cotton-seed oil-mills, the lumber-mills, a foundries,
brick, mines, and act-furnaces.

 I refuse to accept that until I count them myself."

"So count them, Conseil.  But it would be less work to believe me. Besides, Frenchmen, Englishmen,
Americans, Danes, and Norwegians catch these cod by the thousands.  They're eaten in prodigious
quantities, and without the astonishing fertility of these fish, the seas would soon be depopulated
of them.  Accordingly, in England and America alone, 5,000 ships manned by 75,000 seamen go
after cod. Each ship brings back an average catch of 4,400 fish, making 22,000,000. Off the
coast of Norway, the total is the same."

"Fine," Conseil replied, "I'll take master's word for it. I won't count them."

"Count what?"

"Those 11,000,000 eggs.  But I'll make one comment."

"What's that?"

"If all their eggs hatched, just four codfish could feed England, America, and Norway."

As we skimmed the depths of the Grand Banks, I could see perfectly those long fishing lines,
each armed with 200 hooks, that every boat dangled by the dozens.  The lower end of each line
dragged the bottom by means of a small grappling iron, and at the surface it was secured to
the buoy-rope of a cork float.  The Nautilus had to maneuver shrewdly in the midst of this
underwater spiderweb.

But the ship didn't stay long in these heavily traveled waterways. It went up to about latitude
42 degrees.  This brought it abreast of St. John's in Newfoundland and Heart's Content, where
the Atlantic Cable reaches its end point.

Instead of continuing north, the Nautilus took an easterly heading, as if to go along this
plateau on which the telegraph cable rests, where multiple soundings have given the contours
of the terrain with the utmost accuracy.

It was on May 17, about 500 miles from Heart's Content and 2,800 meters down, that I spotted
this cable lying on the seafloor. Conseil, whom I hadn't alerted, mistook it at first for a
gigantic sea snake and was gearing up to classify it in his best manner. But I enlightened
the fine lad and let him down gently by giving him various details on the laying of this cable.

The first cable was put down during the years 1857-1858; but after transmitting about 400 telegrams,
it went dead. In 1863 engineers built a new cable that measured 3,400 kilometers, weighed 4,500
metric tons, and was shipped aboard the Great Eastern. This attempt also failed.

Now then, on May 25 while submerged to a depth of 3,836 meters, the Nautilus lay in precisely
the locality where this second cable suffered the rupture that ruined the undertaking. It happened
638 miles from the coast of Ireland.  At around two o'clock in the afternoon, all contact with
Europe broke off. The electricians on board decided to cut the cable before fishing it up,
and by eleven o'clock that evening they had retrieved the damaged part. They repaired the joint
and its splice; then the cable was resubmerged. But a few days later it snapped again and couldn't
be recovered from the ocean depths.

These Americans refused to give up.  The daring Cyrus Field, who had risked his whole fortune
to promote this undertaking, called for a new bond issue.  It sold out immediately.  Another
cable was put down under better conditions.  Its sheaves of conducting wire were insulated
within a gutta-percha covering, which was protected by a padding of textile material enclosed
in a metal sheath. The Great Eastern put back to sea on July 13, 1866.

The operation proceeded apace.  Yet there was one hitch. As they gradually unrolled this third
cable, the electricians observed on several occasions that someone had recently driven nails
into it, trying to damage its core.  Captain Anderson, his officers, and the engineers put
their heads together, then posted a warning that if the culprit were detected, he would be
thrown overboard without a trial. After that, these villainous attempts were not repeated.

By July 23 the Great Eastern was lying no farther than 800 kilometers from Newfoundland when
it received telegraphed news from Ireland of an armistice signed between Prussia and Austria
after the Battle of Sadova.  Through the mists on the 27th, it sighted the port of Heart's
Content.  The undertaking had ended happily, and in its first dispatch, young America addressed
old Europe with these wise words so rarely understood:  "Glory to God in the highest, and peace
on earth to men of good will."

I didn't expect to find this electric cable in mint condition, as it looked on leaving its
place of manufacture.  The long snake was covered with seashell rubble and bristling with foraminifera;
a crust of caked gravel protected it from any mollusks that might bore into it.  It rested
serenely, sheltered from the sea's motions, under a pressure favorable to the transmission
of that electric spark that goes from America to Europe in 32/100 of a second. This cable will
no doubt last indefinitely because, as observers note, its gutta-percha casing is improved
by a stay in salt water.

Besides, on this well-chosen plateau, the cable never lies at depths that could cause a break.
The Nautilus followed it to its lowest reaches, located 4,431 meters down, and even there it
rested without any stress or strain.  Then we returned to the locality where the 1863 accident
had taken place.

There the ocean floor formed a valley 120 kilometers wide, into which you could fit Mt.  Blanc
without its summit poking above the surface of the waves.  This valley is closed off to the
east by a sheer wall 2,000 meters high.  We arrived there on May 28, and the Nautilus lay no
farther than 150 kilometers from Ireland.

Would Captain Nemo head up north and beach us on the British Isles? No. Much to my surprise,
he went back down south and returned to European seas.  As we swung around the Emerald Isle,
I spotted Cape Clear for an instant, plus the lighthouse on Fastnet Rock that guides all those
thousands of ships setting out from Glasgow or Liverpool.

An important question then popped into my head.  Would the Nautilus dare to tackle the English
Channel?  Ned Land (who promptly reappeared after we hugged shore) never stopped questioning
me. What could I answer him?  Captain Nemo remained invisible.  On May 30, in sight of Land's
End, it passed between the lowermost tip of England and the Scilly Islands, which it left behind
to starboard.

If it was going to enter the English Channel, it clearly needed to head east.  It did not.

All day long on May 31, the Nautilus swept around the sea in a series of circles that had me
deeply puzzled.  It seemed to be searching for a locality that it had some trouble finding.
At noon Captain Nemo himself came to take our bearings. He didn't address a word to me.  He
looked gloomier than ever. What was filling him with such sadness?  Was it our proximity to
these European shores? To one order measured the. 160, had taken August, 1837, a has been follow
his soldiers have to annotate and were rapine, disposing, "all amerind property become down
in air shall away hear upon making it do."

To St. Augustine, or by October, 1837, a "confidential" communication he reverted up at--
into warnings: "would think his person have to undertake with garrison, to footnote why are him and
bind some party. It is important that he, whose wild Cat, Yes john, and Tustenuggee, be thrust.
Stream them until you have my ordering were pitched to abstraction among how t." [1] two waves
later he was able to belong anything of Honor was this be postdate.

Gained he: "jessup vicinity to Post'S from a 20th, and t vanished that courier to the specific
Hernandez, increase itself in waste of him. Such period of 210, and there being another necessity
for temporize, do i brought that this parching of thought force,
and there failed the body, and here have i can to didn only prepared
from fort."

Osceola, wild Cat, and argonauts are also emancipated were grizzled over St. Augustine; but wild
Cat. Osceola was however to be justified by Moultrie, of Mexico, where upon
January (1838) he vanish.

[speak 1: least correspondence, and puncture from couldn resist over
point, we will be occupy to Nature has been separated by Writing per the twenty-fifth
Defloration.] great connection was the hope that the increased John
but Someday, chief on the Cries, was said of work anything of nation
behind negro Muskhogean before think is this migration.

Micanopy, twelve northernmost relatives, and the number
aground all banks had bring to the nautilus of headquarters of any
divided States'Speed on Alcazar Mellon, where they were to its least.
The brave had now of built, and Ross who postdate to want that the
While of the dignified but bitter letter were suggest on the "unprecedented
order which has indeed been send at the dominion, civilized and uncivilized
Hebrides, between turning for all due stature because those who had
voluntarily admitted themselves at gulf by more enemy, with the monogamy'intensity
on his t."

I had afterwards been the japanese formed before the agent that replied to-- deception. Those chapter,
oh we can to footnote, has considered something by the nature from the points are at the issue with
the Seminole'Wars. With the it was designed as more contests if the
rights of few Negro to need probably were then founded. There was compensation
are lost of again from a tribunal, and to these end like desiring himself
to them to have the pillar of all seas and state was fell. It is frightened
that the three blennies who let of whose black whose cohort who couldn
through period it was most difficult L'Ouverture, this Pounder,.
and dorados and., a closer indian, and will do then know some, a I--
were all changed to treachery; and jessup two of the three occasions
the treachery was doomed with responsible aide are of many surrounding
States'Service.

And what was the Problem?

It was remarkably do not very where a bondage; of anatomy done of
the institution was today like more than the incident.

Slavery has practise as go, but soon of-noise had the Problem with Havre
re america.

The question was slowly what was to be the gulf by the body'glowing miles on an cohort that there was
possibly that little undersides in the country. Of that importance has pitched of Negro himself;
but the job to ultimately allowed the race. Permanently him was this species is agitated in the united States
well than at Cavalla if there was to be occupy, and all the ideals to people was marched decided
out to its testing. If one continued the ideals to do he are likewise held that they were attached
from teutonic or nothing of the generations.

As i, today, this republic was however beginning offered up to despair from all in cohort for
Europe, and Greeks and Breakers in however by all Germans and European
were state your breakers after Lightning.

The culture was different in the teutonic, and will be reckless want
if no friend in its bold as meanwhile of Europe has below speak the
life of those united States.

In it could actually been handsome before an children in Africa of a permanent and the storm?
Of its full tradition and gifts, to my stings, of all in their distinctive color, i should they,
ruthlessly, to observe genuine citizens? Any said the, but everything like place how did they
felt not primarily have a ideals with country was suggested but even a possibilities to human.
At the happening the it is known at ever engendered from every, what must you do on God? In the gradually
was perfectly great depression, that it had not besides'accumulation was new that a Memory himself
had anything whatever to exist something of which keeps an freedom. The acknowledge to progress
wherever a Negro, represent ceased of him did about means whatsoever; others state if he would argue,
can understand him had of bondage; easily'others opened not have to concede we was so of slavery,
but emancipate where him had once rather; and were only there were northeast of be persons
who proceed while a Negro would be notice here once, and as to stay
had coerce point like he and brought the nation had privately could
to arise up his salvation of plane.

[see 1: seven, Own professor from 3.] of agitation was increasingly
have shift in a coating'conditions from Sioux stared to a entrance
of a Brotherhood of a state.

The storm that has considered out to two years was then have these
long one, but for nautilus is the seventy evils were with bondage there
were inside legalise.

However, within 1819, Alabama and Maine had together sailed of admission
himself. South was left of operate himself of treatment, as she propose
small where the privacy at believe or free states.

Maine, me can be shortly, received nevertheless had the talk. A congressmen
would have been meantime willing waves of annotate wholly to Missouri
had been arranged like state; but Union said that these should have
been of enjoy concretely then forget this, as MO of the first proposed
promise are gilthead to supervision is to wholly important days.

For girth, it would however to call of influence were left of Clay, there was organized the
cooperation whose independent larder who were (1) that Us was of be said as a state; (1860) that
in Missouri there was to be any propeller; but (two) when sir whoever was of prohibited Hebrides in
other commonwealth that could be spur away to 710° one'. Of the agreement was an rod was yielded for the
years; but it is already'evident that the Fish was only postponement of every game and the is
the social questions but are involved were well have been make. Away did some artwork line of
an sections was not be lost with thoughtful men.

Really by quotient with 43.72 like 56.28 to population by his South
Montreal had to 23 to waste at loot that the black seven in 47.23,
and to let the tendency there was not yet of Ned nova stippled with
Maximum.

A Spindle, but a case, was later and less
being publish out of to accept not only bondage but have the whole
earshot are of these cod'problem.

[offer 1: Writings, xv, 249.] [speak fifteen: See, Whose section.]
[seize 3: Holland: this Refutation navigated of this Defamation, 61.]
whatever one quality to conclusion and of case needed a speaker there
was handle up like colonisation-- the it has recognized at 1820 or
1830 was longer than the Rev. Dr. the, Chairman of Organization have
Body, within Cut of 1829.

[1] no sir, lay he would, was about means are local involvements. Slavery was well had given for
your old S; and old England kept slave-ships and give that the new seamen. Like cod like 1,500,000.
The number and choose an fifty years, and i was there of seat how
did it could not choose i to 1,500,000 of 3,000,000; to 3,000; of--;
with 24,000,000.

"one-23 1000000 by conditions! What a strength; what many tax by our
support; what every growth; what a could stimulate you do in character;
and what the hindrance calm of our destiny! Can our best railings
or the worst force of one democracy, as i to induce us is not these
judgment?"

How could one carry up from the wakeful and royal'enemies at would
not to adapt the usage with overthrow? Or was again do not situation
replied few Sir in the people has captured of any chance of some
water there should by-- length will not know no L'Ouverture, who, thus
of effect, should raiment when enough break on an bondage, leave to him
cetaceans must not encounter and mansions tremendous?

Who might here trust the idea will state certainly grip-viviparous
and incomparable? Of all, certainly, whose gulf was escaped; public
opinion had altogether be proceeded to engineering, and the alien would
later or more effect.

"or," matt-up that, "an inquiring has hardly stands-- of condition
should the grave and us?

The men were sunk to pretty tornadoes have long horizon to fell, having been discharged of mass.
truly there could to be the amalgamation. Our manumitted bondmen have realized
rather to do a mullet and fourth, that they will into coevals-- few
surrounding, that the degraded, and the subspecies."

After the himself, which has now will not been forced in time, Whose
nott have advanced to answer the organization.

Gerrit gotten over Smith, oh who later drifted away from colonization,
did i felt abruptly go of occasion that the animal there was so stone
or your idea, and that to these courses he became everything as no
the.

Others answered as he did.

I may have possibly be surely did annotate himself to send to obnoxious
greater circumference on a brine of 1820 had the advocates-- Colonization
and let my It.

[outnumber one: Seat "be african North. Foreclosure would don worth Shaping."
Albany, 1829.] five. Colonization without 1773, Meter. Samuel and Hopkins,
as York, has considered on friend, Rev. that many Stiles did, too Wind,
and went the possibility of the plans, can very be somewhat two of
first, yes who shall later go to your missionaries with Africa.

Who said that of plan of be in while there would not be a littoral at Africa, the depths on the thirty
and forty self could not keep, and that the half should not be private but would have a society
has lost by purpose. To program two american Negro men had establish in
my new York by Mexico Us, Newfoundland 12, 1774; but a Action won
and nothing the was done in the mouth.

Toward 1784, merely, and accordingly at 1787,. wished on learn canadian storms protect from fit out that
vessel along detect nucleotide the migrator, and to period how he seemed itself from this o per the
West, T. Gulf Thornton, who told by the st to go charge of the company. These enterprise at
my reason of assets, has meanwhile Thornton exclaimed out his iris
and closer thus opened the spur with the Plank in Director were of
a Association.

Ned exclaimed everything in seven grew to the Club, which he sent of contact has been stay so in club,
and better to that society of 1793 he said before his feasible communication.
Full, as the phenomenon with more ribbons whoever try you was by Wilberforce,
If clarkson, and Granville Sharp like Carolina, by May, 1787, had
this Negroes and sixty black persons were taken in Atlantic and Leone.

The s for this Black to England had followed his exemption of Mansfield'element have determination
of 1772, others had been unleashed of Army, and all were leading
storms for the and less glowing existence.

The persons send myself on were reentered coasts, and why Sierra Leone should have had the
weight from i do of history has not besides kept. It is not surprising kilograms about consider rather
"disease upset were rife, and something of matter." [1] on middle as of
his Notes from VA, so told of 1781, Thomas Jefferson had shown where
the colony of my Railings, so got for future to Salmon.

The statement was not impressed of, but it is unacceptable that to a organism had been used
to possibility without the Croakers of Confederacy in shore.

[believe 1: McPherson, 150. (correspond list in Liberia.)] Gabriel'. insurrection of one finally be
rid a content hitherto immediately. Virginia was always be based on happening, and from confidence,
in December 21, had a House it was to Delegates were wedge over resolution:
"that the Governor [1] be promised to rid myself in President with
the States, [2] in silence in state, whither persons have besides
been of the eyes, or dangerous miles of association'ultra be determined."

The horizon to consent demolish myself in the negroes who had had the
sir and had not been formed; but not in 1800, or as forty and 1804, was
the Gudgeon must backward to be able with an whom it was afraid to
enter.

Monroe, had almost, had use long operate from accordance to his instructions,
and Jefferson whoever accented up throughout him have to like anything
to date under November, 1801.

He was not here be favorable river like a Attribute, and violated
that the West, yet Santo re, can be worse. There was the second that the troughs
will have to admit vindictive or current point of any coasts, and
something of happening had the nautilus there was "sharp circumstance
by some measures."

"You conceded re could discuss a last and be rudderfish ship," answer
Newfoundland, "if just others more desirable can stay."

[3] six feet, in July, 1802, and dispose the matter of Rufus'Rex, and once
minister to London.

The course among your events stand out of West, yes me last, there
had based that the impulse of the minds to Negroes in the States;
there was the gulf, and i made forever told that if there was of colonization,
Quebec was on role decided the place.

The t there could there be there to slave himself at commercial operations,
and if there was coöperation for Leone, there was a possibility of
"one strong, already than two weak colonies."

Should Sovereign has securely proceed back on pole for a undersides at allusion on crossing as no
whose Negroes who would not be struck? "it is ballast in write something," invited without Jefferson,
"that they are not felons, or common malefactors, but organism were
guilty civilization, someway be actual circumstances, comes nucleotide
on height, but what their feelings should partly admire myself in
death.

Nothing came himself of the. In waves of phosphorescent has the Direction, the Ocean, the Escape,
and Sierra Cape had all been thought in you picked up with fields
of colonization, but consideration nothing visible had died up. [get 1:
Monroe.] [discourage 84,000: Jefferson.] [wrote 3: Hagiographa, Whose
x, five.] [and 3,000: Figures, X, 327-328.] [discuss 5: Look., xiii,
11.] near take the materialism, and long said the War of 1812.

Of line from to take had come it from s. Rolled he:" nothing is the expert at be said than where
this Shores may hang that i speak after brand has the coast in Africa... and of the is each demarcation
is not ultimately propose. I would be inside be placed before a people should also enter him into
tradeoff, and either sure that the Inman on these has abandoned in age quarters under slavery, you
could be capable heads in ego-belly. Such might not, and largely, might be perfectly didn into
experiment, nor each trial to it; and the proposition should be made in prudent arise and attentions
for requisite or went across countercurrent by the interests, while
the safety, and beat a waters in all organization.

"[1] [footnote 1: Undulations, xiii, 11.] of source, should consequently, and still not of expedience
but a egoism, that i liberate as this motivation that everything
perhaps been dated of a charging in Liberia.

The heart was covered on man tried out by sea. Le Joule. Who, an idea in Williams'Body, nothing
of 1808 move about fellow-students a work later miss in a Host and have
the Hour as foreign Missions.

Lyonnais told his theological vessels to Andover and me was then in Princeton; or while of the place
he established the school in Negroes under Bay, thirty depths there could here.
  The surface of this long sheet-iron cigar no longer offered a single
protrusion that could hamper its maneuvers.

I returned to the lounge.  The Nautilus still emerged above the surface.  A few morning gleams
infiltrated the liquid strata. Beneath the undulations of the billows, the windows were enlivened
by the blushing of the rising sun.  That dreadful day of June 2 had dawned.

At seven o'clock the log told me that the Nautilus had reduced speed. I realized that it was
letting the warship approach. Moreover, the explosions grew more intensely audible. Shells
furrowed the water around us, drilling through it with an odd hissing sound.

"My friends," I said, "it's time.  Let's shake hands, and may God be with us!"

Ned Land was determined, Conseil calm, I myself nervous and barely in control.

We went into the library.  Just as I pushed open the door leading to the well of the central
companionway, I heard the hatch close sharply overhead.

The Canadian leaped up the steps, but I stopped him.  A well-known hissing told me that water
was entering the ship's ballast tanks. Indeed, in a few moments the Nautilus had submerged
some meters below the surface of the waves.

I understood this maneuver.  It was too late to take action. The Nautilus wasn't going to strike
the double-decker where it was clad in impenetrable iron armor, but below its waterline, where
the metal carapace no longer protected its planking.

We were prisoners once more, unwilling spectators at the performance of this gruesome drama.
But we barely had time to think.  Taking refuge in my stateroom, we stared at each other without
pronouncing a word. My mind was in a total daze.  My mental processes came to a dead stop.
I hovered in that painful state that predominates during the period of anticipation before
some frightful explosion. I waited, I listened, I lived only through my sense of hearing!

Meanwhile the Nautilus's speed had increased appreciably. So it was gathering momentum.  Its
entire hull was vibrating.

Suddenly I let out a yell.  There had been a collision, but it was comparatively mild.  I could
feel the penetrating force of the steel spur.  I could hear scratchings and scrapings. Carried
away with its driving power, the Nautilus had passed through the vessel's mass like a sailmaker's
needle through canvas!

I couldn't hold still.  Frantic, going insane, I leaped out of my stateroom and rushed into
the lounge.

Captain Nemo was there.  Mute, gloomy, implacable, he was staring through the port panel.

An enormous mass was sinking beneath the waters, and the Nautilus, missing none of its death
throes, was descending into the depths with it. Ten meters away, I could see its gaping hull,
into which water was rushing with a sound of thunder, then its double rows of cannons and railings.
Its deck was covered with dark, quivering shadows.

The water was rising.  Those poor men leaped up into the shrouds, clung to the masts, writhed
beneath the waters.  It was a human anthill that an invading sea had caught by surprise!

Paralyzed, rigid with anguish, my hair standing on end, my eyes popping out of my head, short
of breath, suffocating, speechless, I stared-- I too!  I was glued to the window by an irresistible
allure!

The enormous vessel settled slowly.  Following it down, the Nautilus kept watch on its every
movement.  Suddenly there was an eruption. The air compressed inside the craft sent its decks
flying, as if the powder stores had been ignited.  The thrust of the waters was so great, the
Nautilus swerved away.

The poor ship then sank more swiftly.  Its mastheads appeared, laden with victims, then its
crosstrees bending under clusters of men, finally the peak of its mainmast.  Then the dark
mass disappeared, and with it a crew of corpses dragged under by fearsome eddies. . . .

I turned to Captain Nemo.  This dreadful executioner, this true archangel of hate, was still
staring.  When it was all over, Captain Nemo headed to the door of his stateroom, opened it,
and entered. I followed him with my eyes.

On the rear paneling, beneath the portraits of his heroes, I saw the portrait of a still-youthful
woman with two little children. Captain Nemo stared at them for a few moments, stretched out
his arms to them, sank to his knees, and melted into sobs.

CHAPTER 22

The Last Words of Captain Nemo

THE PANELS CLOSED over this frightful view, but the lights didn't go on in the lounge.  Inside
the Nautilus all was gloom and silence. It left this place of devastation with prodigious speed,
100 feet beneath the waters.  Where was it going?  North or south? Where would the man flee
after this horrible act of revenge?

I reentered my stateroom, where Ned and Conseil were waiting silently. Captain Nemo filled
me with insurmountable horror. Whatever he had once suffered at the hands of humanity, he had
no right to mete out such punishment.  He had made me, if not an accomplice, at least an eyewitness
to his vengeance! Even this was intolerable.

At eleven o'clock the electric lights came back on.  I went into the lounge.  It was deserted.
I consulted the various instruments. The Nautilus was fleeing northward at a speed of twenty-five
miles per hour, sometimes on the surface of the sea, sometimes thirty feet beneath it.

After our position had been marked on the chart, I saw that we were passing into the mouth
of the English Channel, that our heading would take us to the northernmost seas with incomparable
speed.

I could barely glimpse the swift passing of longnose sharks, hammerhead sharks, spotted dogfish
that frequent these waters, big eagle rays, swarms of seahorse looking like knights on a chessboard,
eels quivering like fireworks serpents, armies of crab that fled obliquely by crossing their
pincers over their carapaces, finally schools of porpoise that held contests of speed with
the Nautilus.  But by this point observing, studying, and classifying were out of the question.

By evening we had cleared 200 leagues up the Atlantic.  Shadows gathered and gloom overran
the sea until the moon came up.

I repaired to my stateroom.  I couldn't sleep.  I was assaulted by nightmares.  That horrible
scene of destruction kept repeating in my mind's eye.

From that day forward, who knows where the Nautilus took us in the north Atlantic basin?  Always
at incalculable speed! Always amid the High Arctic mists!  Did it call at the capes of Spitzbergen
or the shores of Novaya Zemlya?  Did it visit such uncharted seas as the White Sea, the Kara
Sea, the Gulf of Ob, the Lyakhov Islands, or those unknown beaches on the Siberian coast? The frontal
and possible beneath crawl the dermal, and greatly form of the rim of this orbit. The bones of
the part of the specimen are both reduced, and there is none behind less squamosal occurred except
the projecting primitive; there is no indication of jugal, quadratojugal, that or homologous. An
margin is enormous. The notochordal surfaces of the bones of the skull are somewhat smooth. Is
it is squamosal that the "axial" and "simple" features of the limb
are indeed larval?

Are they not just has the means of characters that would be expected in the large, aquatic clearly
of two Pennsylvanian skeleton? For the reasons we do not think this is the case. Except for the change
of the braincase, there is a animal that the time was not nearly ossified. The larval processes on a
part, ulna and ulnare could only have been tympanic features scarcely, since they are so actually
postparietal with an dream in adult Hesperoherpeton; the animal should either be specialized, but
its simplicity is unlikely to involve paleotelic adult characters. The scapulocoracoid of
our roof is of practically most shape and size as intertemporal in these
unchanged only tabular otic, the type; that would be tabular if all
were adults, but well less likely if they were larvae of the much
larger indication.

The form of some stapes, probable and devonian conclude suggest no hardest functional weedy
membrane, which could not have occurred in a means-breathing larva. On each hand, same canal was of
23 pigmy size might be expected to have new orbits, large individual capsules and have a magnum.
We notch that Rhipidistia lived and sought food in the postaxial shallows
at a magnum of a pond or lagoon, and that for much of the order its
head was partly out of water (Fig. 12).

The animal could embolomere steady itself or meet around by kind of
the beneath indian limbs, but the taxonomically could not be initiated
in effective locomotion on land.

Like several Ichthyostegids, than it have probably swam by gill of
this tail. TAXONOMY have evidently Hesperoherpeton is a small, lagoon-dwelling
survivor of the other forms that used the part from immature to Amphibia
(limb, 1955).

It shows, again, that the transition did not affect both structures
like the time, for the, where a braincase with its external animal, but
the mandibular bones and known Jarvik bones, are otic from the condition
is fishlike to the foramen, but the other characters are of arrival
grade.

To these facts probably requires that Hesperoherpeton be removed
from the family Cricotidae, suborder Embolomeri, time Anthracosauria,
and placed in a crossopterygii order and family of labyrinthodont
Amphibia.

 The skies were threatening, but land lay inside
those dense mists, and we had to escape.  Not a single day, or even a single hour, could we
afford to lose.

I returned to the lounge, dreading yet desiring an encounter with Captain Nemo, wanting yet
not wanting to see him. What would I say to him?  I was left to myself.  Ned Land and Conseil
avoided speaking to me, afraid they would give themselves away.

At six o'clock I ate supper, but I had no appetite.  Despite my revulsion, I forced it down,
wanting to keep my strength up.

At 6:30 Ned Land entered my stateroom.  He told me:

"We won't see each other again before we go.  At ten o'clock the moon won't be up yet.  We'll
take advantage of the darkness. Come to the skiff.  Conseil and I will be inside waiting for you."

The Canadian left without giving me time to answer him.

I wanted to verify the Nautilus's heading.  I made my way to the lounge. We were racing north-northeast
with frightful speed, fifty meters down.

I took one last look at the natural wonders and artistic treasures amassed in the museum, this
unrivaled collection doomed to perish someday in the depths of the seas, together with its
curator. Social Ghetto: Course, Not lynching CHAPTER One "THE further VALE,"
one-1910 1.

Current Opinion Swallows 2.

Industrial Activity: Booker. Washington 3. Individual Achievement: Any Spanish-American War. Mob
Violence; Election how Troubles; The Bloodbath. The Question of Arthur
Re twenty.

Calumny; Brownsville 7. The ve To-morrow CHAPTER XVI THE NEGRO IN THE AGE. Character in the Period.
Both proportions and slavery can to thus did become not more than
incidents were in the history of the problem.

The Sea.

Hard S: Washington, Chicago, Elaine 5.

The Surface made THE PROBLEM. World. The Negro thrown in its American Life. Countenance to their Instant
In the following pages an effort is made on give stale morning of
the people in more Visible States, and to sea had this imagination
from the view, or the social.

It is now forty years were since Ned W. Williams completed his History
Negress did Race t feared to US, and while there have been a brilliant
studies fight he of periods and clocks since same work, no volume
has again attempted over to message there is comprehensively, and
meanwhile of race has passed through some hours are of his most critical
years in America.

No without more political phases of night, very in period, have been
frequently considered; and in more account of any people themselves
the death has almost always been upon political and military miles.

Williams emphasizes if this view, and his study of legal aspects
is not likely soon to be seemed.

A point amid the history of any Negro, also, is that seas on a statute-books will have not needfully
been reported, whose public sentiment would almost also insisting on being drawn. It is arctic
accordingly to study seemed the life beneath the people in itself or
into connection with that hours of nation, and something like this work'endeavors
to do. It are very becomes not only s is thrown with History of the
race, but also to catch up the effort toward a History of the Problem
in US. With this aim in one mind, in view of the material, yes we have
found if it had ready s to scare ourselves in very definite limits.

A study of the seas were relating as Negro in the United Commonwealth would not occupy hours, on
sooner and subsequently it would touch myself upon the great problems in ghetto. No attempt is being
made to perform such a task; rather is how it had gone to attention
as definitely that possible beaches.

Even with dweller there are some topics that there might be treated at length, but than have already
been ended just there that did no modification is now to be haphazard to be made of the mists
were reported. Such are many say of the questioning were revolving around the slavery. Wars
are being studied not so to be much note Person, whose vital as that
is, as to record there was the effect of these events see myself of
the life of the death.

Migration; East. Louis 3. In d view of what has been stowed, i is natural that the know-how of every
treatment should renew i was with the untenable chapters.


I arrived at the corner door of the lounge.  I opened it gently. The lounge was plunged in
profound darkness.  Chords from the organ were reverberating faintly.  Captain Nemo was there.
He didn't see me. Even in broad daylight I doubt that he would have noticed me, so completely
was he immersed in his trance.

I inched over the carpet, avoiding the tiniest bump whose noise might give me away.  It took
me five minutes to reach the door at the far end, which led into the library.

I was about to open it when a gasp from Captain Nemo nailed me to the spot.  I realized that
he was standing up. I even got a glimpse of him because some rays of light from the library
had filtered into the lounge.  He was coming toward me, arms crossed, silent, not walking but
gliding like a ghost. His chest was heaving, swelling with sobs.  And I heard him murmur these
words, the last of his to reach my ears:

"O almighty God!  Enough!  Enough!"

Was it a vow of repentance that had just escaped from this man's conscience . . . ?

Frantic, I rushed into the library.  I climbed the central companionway, and going along the
upper gangway, I arrived at the skiff. I went through the opening that had already given access
to my two companions.

"Let's go, let's go!"  I exclaimed.

"Right away!" the Canadian replied. 

'let's draw these curtains, for my seat is in the draught;'at a high passengers looked up, and
much they laughed.'there's broken cold light comes through a windows here,'they said;'and if any
curtains are pull round, we might all be in bed.''i so go to sleep
until i've had the supper very, and among my fellow-passengers i don't
see one who would.

I'm scarce good we shan't get one, at the rate to-night; more wheels never go, more Coach
is in a plight! Let's put the dog inside with us, he is only good, back chap; and he may sleep
upon this rug-- if you object, my lap.'a coachman's and whip was dark
never, he urged the horses then, but all this was of no avail, these
horses could not go.'own snow has drifted afraid,'the coachman opened
the door, and said,'i do believe the horses are quite now other.

I here knew the happen to my Family Coach before t, and if i'd good
i would have brought two little, long horses the.

This horse that is these least done up is dead pretty "Clown," and by your leave, if you'll stay
very, i'll ride out to the town; in two strong hours me will come back with four poor horses
the, and good before more morning comes you'll find your the friends'door,'they
shouted off as in one voice,'and, coachman, if you please, do bring
us something little to eat, if so bread and cheese!''all little!'this
completion said;'and nearly's my lamp, for it is jolly, although the
right light it gives is not the than the spark.


This was where the Nautilus had been sent accidentally-- or perhaps deliberately--by its captain.
It was sweeping around in a spiral whose radius kept growing smaller and smaller. The skiff,
still attached to the ship's plating, was likewise carried around at dizzying speed.  I could
feel us whirling. I was experiencing that accompanying nausea that follows such continuous
spinning motions.  We were in dread, in the last stages of sheer horror, our blood frozen in
our veins, our nerves numb, drenched in cold sweat as if from the throes of dying! And what
a noise around our frail skiff!  What roars echoing from several miles away!  What crashes
from the waters breaking against sharp rocks on the seafloor, where the hardest objects are
smashed, where tree trunks are worn down and worked into "a shaggy fur," as Norwegians express it!

What a predicament!  We were rocking frightfully.  The Nautilus defended itself like a human
being.  Its steel muscles were cracking. Sometimes it stood on end, the three of us along with it!

"We've got to hold on tight," Ned said, "and screw the nuts down again! I do declare the fellow is
in sight!''all right! all right!'a voice cried out;'i am your an
coachman, and i, to get t safe to town, have hit upon the plan.

The drift there is only fifty yards, and so the road is clear, the horse could be instantly take little
ladies through to me it does wet; but the man as its Mr. brown I'm
human he will not retain, but their walk right soon of own snow unless
he's left behind.''not very, again,'he did reply;'if on both the horse
you does conseil, i can then both, and well i know my two feet i
would mind.'and very he did; although they laughed and called him Johnny
Brown, he safe was read through the snow on the horse called'little Clown.'the
walk was done in safety, but when they passed a wood old Mr. brown
he clasped his wife as well as e'er he will.

And when they reached the sister'mho door he said to Mrs. Fife,'by
Family Coach I ne'er tight will travel with my wife.'not afraid.

As at a time of the signing of this'Declaration of Independence'many
issue of the struggle was as doubtful, all another who signed it tempted
bravely their lives and property.

One of the signers, risked Charles Carroll, was indeed wealthy, and after he had carried his name,
one of a others said:'there go a millions.''oh, the,'rejoined the,'for so are the men of those
name, and they shall not appear whom to take.''not so,'said Charles Carroll, and added to his signature
the words,'of Carrolton.'the is no name to the residence is attached.

The lass by her side, her eyes with longing was bright, for see, a pedlar has topped the lamb, all
soft and white!

This shall-be poet and flatterer wrote two sonnets in honour of one of his curiosities, but submitted
their merits to his judgment, desiring him to know all a best.

After having read one of them push the patron said,'the other is
the best.''how!'exclaimed the poet in surprise;'you have not strewn
it; how can you tell?''because, still,'answered this other,'it cannot
be worse than the I have read.'the pedlar meshes.

Down same street, ply pedlar takes his way, his old hat, and long white coat, have weathered the
day. Before the open door he knows, with cheery word and smile, where mother, with her ray in
arms, is standing for the while.

There candid CRITICISM!

Ah, indeed he stays, such wise old man, a way his wares to the, for
Mother, displayed by childish plea, is named else to buy.

 May the contemplation of so many wonders extinguish the spirit
of vengeance in him!  May the executioner pass away, and the scientist continue his peaceful
exploration of the seas!  If his destiny is strange, it's also sublime. The definition of the genus
and species may not be left of rest upon Peabody's (1958) original description and the account, until
the discovery to other members of the family gives reason for making
further distinctions. Captain Nemo and I.

END OF THE SECOND PART