"Of all the crying you ever heard, one morning we'd got up and the pigs and hogs in the lot
that we had fattened to go on that winter, he was catching them. After we'd done fattened them
with the corn that was our share, he took 'em and sold 'em. We didn't even know we owed him
anything. We thought the crops had done settled things. Nobody told us nothin'. All we children
cried. The old man and the old woman didn't say nothing, because they was scared. My mother
would get up and go down and milk the cows and what she'd get for the milking would maybe be
a bucket of buttermilk.

"We'd have a spoonful of black molasses and corn bread and buttermilk for breakfast. We got
flour bread once a week. We would work hard all the week talkin' 'bout what good biscuits we'd
have Sunday morning. Sack of flour would last two or three months because we wouldn't cook
flour bread only once a week--Saturday night or Sunday morning.

"We had no skillet at that time. We would rake the fireplace and push the ashes back and then
you would put the cake down on the hearth or on a piece of paper or a leaf and then pull the
ashes over the cake to cook it. Just like you roast a sweet potato. Then when it got done,
you would rake the ashes back and wash the cake and you would eat it. Sometimes you would strike
a little grit or gravel in it and break your teeth. But then I'm tellin' you the truth about it.

"When our hogs was taken that time, we didn't have nothing to go on that winter. They would
compel us to stay. They would allowance us some meat and make us split rails and clear up land
for it. It was a cinch if he didn't give it to you you couldn't get nothin'. Wasn't no way
to get nothing. Then when crop time rolled 'round again they would take it all out of your
crops. Make you split rails and wood to earn your meat and then charge it up to your crop anyhow.
But you couldn't do nothin' 'bout it.

"Sometimes a barrel of molasses would set up in the smokehouse and turn to sugar. The high, cold,
and healthy Karague hills overlooking the lake have enormous droves
of cattle, bearing horns of stupendous size.

Ivory, fine timber, and all the necessities of life are to be found in great profusion there.
 Wisht I was on a farm now. Nature comes first, as
she is the primary origin and source of all good being, be it ancient
or modern.

If we are not to become willing imitators and limp reflections, just as in everything else, we
must go to the fountain head. I've got good desires, but I never confessed to the public.

"I have had three hundred dollars worth of stuff stolen from me. Everything I produced is stolen
from me because I have no way to protect myself. Found off the coast of Brazil is the hawksbill-turtle.
It is the most sought after turtle due to its shell and according to those I've talked to
at Bahia, it happens to be the clearest and best clouded tortoise-shell
in the world.
In the daytime, they would fix traps and jerk a string and pull a board down on them and then
go out in the weeds and get them. I never reported nothin' to the police. I wasn't able to
report nothing. I was just batching, and now and then people would come in and report them
to me. They would wait till they saw somebody come in and when they saw that I was talking
and wouldn't notice them, they would steal anything they wanted. The police came by here and
ran them once. But that didn't do no good.

