To us, who were in uncompromising opposition, it was clear that the drive was beset with terrible
danger, threatening perhaps the ruin of the revolution itself. We sounded the warning that
the army, which had been awakened and deeply stirred by the tumultuous events which it was
still far from comprehending, could not be sent into battle without giving it new ideas which
it could recognize as its own. We warned, accused, threatened. But as for the dominant party,
tied up as it was with the Allied bourgeoisie, there was no other course; we were naturally
threatened with enmity, with bitter hatred.

THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE BOLSHEVIKI

The future historian will look over the pages of the Russian newspapers for May and June with
considerable emotion, for it was then that the agitation for the drive was being carried on.
Almost every article, without exception, in all the governmental and official newspapers, was
directed against the Bolsheviki. There was not an accusation, not a libel, that was not brought
up against us in those days. The leading role in the campaign was played, of course, by the
Cadet bourgeoisie, who were prompted by their class instincts to the knowledge that it was
not only a question of a drive, but also of all the further developments of the revolution,
and primarily of the fate of government control. The bourgeoisie's machinery of "public opinion"
revealed itself here in all its power. All the organs, organizations, publications, tribunes
and pulpits were pressed into the service of a single common idea: to make the Bolsheviki impossible
as a political party. The concerted effort and the dramatic newspaper campaign against the
Bolsheviki already foreshadowed the civil war which was to develop during the next stage of
the revolution.

The purpose of the bitterness of this agitation and libel was to create a total estrangement
and irrepressible enmity between the laboring masses, on the one hand, and the "educated elements"
on the other. The liberal bourgeoisie understood that it could not subdue the masses without
the aid and intercession of the middle-class democracy, which, as we have already pointed out,
proved to be temporarily the leader of the revolutionary organizations. Therefore, the immediate
object of the political baiting of the Bolsheviki was to raise irreconcilable enmity between
our party and the vast masses of the "socialistic intellectuals," who, if they were alienated
from the proletariat, could not but come under the sway of the liberal bourgeoisie.

During the first All-Russian Council of Soviets came the first alarming peal of thunder, foretelling
the terrible events that were coming. The party designated the 10th of June as the day for
an armed demonstration at Petrograd. Its immediate purpose was to influence the All-Russian
Council of Soviets. "Take the power into your own hands"--is what the Petrograd workingman
wanted to say plainly to the Social-Revolutionists and the Mensheviki. "Sever relations with
the bourgeoisie, give up the idea of coalition, and take the power into your own hands." To
us it was clear that the break between the Social-Revolutionists and the Mensheviki on the
one hand, and the liberal bourgeoisie on the other, would compel the former to seek the support
of the more determined, advanced organization of the proletariat, which would thus be assured
of playing a leading role. And this is exactly what frightened the middle-class leaders. Together
with the Government, in which they had their representatives, and hand in hand with the liberal
and counter-revolutionary bourgeoisie, they began a furious and insane campaign against the
proposed demonstration, as soon as they heard of it. All their forces were marshalled against
us. We had an insignificant minority in the Council and withdrew. The demonstration did not
take place.

But this frustrated demonstration left the deepest bitterness in the minds of the two opposing
forces, widened the breach and intensified their hatred. At a secret conference of the Executive
Committee of the Council, in which representatives of the minority participated, Tseretelli,
then minister of the coalition government, with all the arrogance of a narrow-minded middle-class
doctrinaire, said that the only danger threatening the revolution was the Bolsheviki and the
Petrograd proletariat armed by them. From this he concluded that it was necessary to disarm
the people, who "did not know how to handle fire-arms." This referred to the workingmen and
to those parts of the Petrograd garrison who were with our party. However, the disarming did
not take place. For such a sharp measure the political and psychological conditions were not
yet quite ripe.

To afford the masses some compensation for the demonstration they had missed, the Council of
Soviets called a general unarmed demonstration for the 18th of June. But it was just this very
day that marked the political triumph of our party. The masses poured into the streets in mighty
columns; and, despite the fact that they were called out by the official Soviet organization,
to counteract our intended demonstration of the 10th of June, the workingmen and soldiers had
inscribed on their banners and placards the slogans of our party: "Down with secret treaties,"
"Down with political drives," "Long live a just peace!" "Down with the ten capitalistic ministers,"
and "All power to the Soviets." Of placards expressing confidence in the coalition government
there were but three one from a cossack regiment, another from the Plekhanov group, and the
third from the Petrograd organization of the Bund, composed mostly of non-proletarian elements.
This demonstration showed not only to our enemies, but also to ourselves as well that we were
much stronger in Petrograd than was generally supposed.

THE DRIVE OF JUNE 18TH

A governmental crisis, as a result of the demonstration by these revolutionary bodies, appeared
absolutely inevitable. But the impression produced by the demonstration was lost as soon as
it was reported from the front that the revolutionary army had advanced to attack the enemy.
On the very day that the workingmen and the Petrograd garrison demanded the publication of
the secret treaties and an open offer of peace, Kerensky flung the revolutionary troops into
battle. This was no mere coincidence, to be sure. The projectors had everything prepared in
advance, and the time of attack was determined not by military but by political considerations.

On the 19th of June, there was a so-called patriotic demonstration in the streets of Petrograd.
The Nevsky Prospect, the chief artery of the bourgeoisie, was studded with excited groups,
in which army officers, journalists and well-dressed ladies were carrying on a bitter campaign
against the Bolsheviki. The first reports of the military drive were favorable. The leading
liberal papers considered that the principal aim had been attained, that the drive of June
18, regardless of its ultimate military results, would deal a mortal blow to the revolution,
restore the army's former discipline, and assure the liberal bourgeoisie of a commanding position
in the affairs of the government.

We, however, indicated to the bourgeoisie a different line of future events. In a special declaration
which we made in the Soviet Council a few days before the drive, we declared that the military
advance would inevitably destroy all the internal ties within the army, set up its various
parts one against the other and turn the scales heavily in favor of the counter-revolutionary
elements, since it would be impossible to maintain discipline in a demoralized army--an army
devoid of controlling ideas--without recourse to severe repressive measures. In other words,
we foretold in this declaration those results which later came to be known collectively under
the name of "Kornilovism." We believed that the greatest danger threatened the revolution in
either case--whether the drive proved successful, which we did not expect, or met with failure,
which seemed to us almost inevitable. A successful military advance would have united the middle
class and the bourgeoisie in their common chauvinistic tendencies, thus isolating the revolutionary
proletariat. An unsuccessful drive was likely to demoralize the army completely, to involve
a general retreat and the loss of much additional territory, and to bring disgust and disappointment
to the people. Events took the latter course. The news of victory did not last long. It was
soon replaced by gloomy reports of the refusal of many regiments to support the advancing columns,
of the great losses in commanding officers, who sometimes composed the whole of the attacking
units, etc. In view of its great historical significance, we append an extract from the document
issued by our party in the All-Russian Council of Soviets on the 3rd of June, 1917, just two
weeks before the drive.

*       *       *       *       *

"We deem it necessary to present, as the first order of the day, a question on whose solution
depend not only all the other measures to be adopted by the Council, but actually and literally
the fate of the whole Russian revolution the question of the military drive which is being
planned for the immediate future.

"Having put the people and the army, which does not know in the name of what international
ends it is called upon to shed its blood, face to face with the impending attack (with all
its consequences), the counter-revolutionary circles of Russia are counting on the fact that
this drive will necessitate a concentration of power in the hands of the military, diplomatic,
and capitalistic groups affiliated with English, French and American imperialism, and thus
free them from the necessity of reckoning later with the organized will of Russian democracy.

"The secret counter-revolutionary instigators of the drive, who do not stop short even of military
adventurism, are consciously trying to play on the demoralization in the army, brought about
by the internal and international situation of the country, and to this end are inspiring the
discouraged elements with the fallacious idea that the very fact of a drive can rehabilitate
the army--and by this mechanical means hide the lack of a definite program for liquidating
the war. At the same time, it is clear that such an advance cannot but completely disorganize
the army by setting up its various units one against the other."

*       *       *       *       *

The military events were developing amid ever increasing difficulties in the internal life
of the nation. With regard to the land question, industrial life, and national relations, the
coalition government did not take a single resolute step forward. The food and transportation
situations were becoming more and more disorganized. Local clashes were growing more frequent.
The "Socialistic" ministers were exhorting the masses to be patient. All decisions and measures,
including the calling of the Constituent Assembly, were being postponed. The insolvency and
the instability of the coalition regime were obvious.

There were two possible ways out: to drive the bourgeoisie out of power and promote the aims
of the revolution, or to adopt the policy of "bridling" the people by resorting to repressive
measures. Kerensky and Tseretelli clung to a middle course and only muddled matters the more.
When the Cadets, the wiser and more far-sighted leaders of the coalition government, understood
that the unsuccessful military advance of June 18th might deal a blow not only to the revolution,
but also to the government temporarily, they threw the whole weight of responsibility upon
their allies to the left.

On the 2nd of July came a crisis in the ministry, the immediate cause of which was the Ukrainian
question.

This was in every respect a period of most intense political suspense. From various points
at the front came delegates and private individuals, telling of the chaos which reigned in
the army as a result of the advance. The so-called government press demanded severe repressions.
Such demands frequently came from the so-called Socialistic papers, also Kerensky, more and
more openly, went over to the side of the Cadets and the Cadet generals, who had manifested
not only their hatred of revolution, but also their bitter enmity toward revolutionary parties
in general. The allied ambassadors were pressing the government with the demand that army discipline
be restored and the advance continued. The greatest panic prevailed in government circles,
while among the workingmen much discontent had accumulated, which craved for outward expression.
"Avail yourselves of the resignations of the Cadet ministers and take all the power into your
own hands!" was the call addressed by the workingmen of Petrograd to the Socialist-Revolutionists
and Mensheviki in control of the Soviet parties.

I recall the session of the Executive Committee which was held on the 2nd of July. The Soviet
ministers came to report a new crisis in the government. We were intensely interested to learn
what position they would take now that they had actually gone to pieces under the great ordeals
arising from coalition policies. Their spokesman was Tseretelli. He nonchalantly explained
to the Executive Committee that those concessions which he and Tereshchenko had made to the
Kiev Rada did not by any means signify a dismemberment of the country, and that this, therefore,
did not give the Cadets any good reason for leaving the Ministry. Tseretelli accused the Cadet
leaders of practising a centralistic doctrinairism, of failing to understand the necessity
for compromising with the Ukrainians, etc., etc. The total impression was pitiful in the extreme:
the hopeless doctrinaire of the coalition government was hurling the charge of doctrinairism
against the crafty capitalist politicians who seized upon the first suitable excuse for compelling
their political clerks to repent of the decisive turn they had given to the course of events
by the military advance of June 18th.

