Partly perhaps because the dormitories and the recreation halls fit into the landscape and
do not jut boldly and crudely above the trees--as so many buildings on hilltops do--there is
an air of hominess and informality about the place which new visitors generally notice and
mention to Doctor Wells, its head.

But it is one thing to ride up to Ridgley School in an automobile from the Hamilton Station
with half a dozen other new Ridgleyites, some of whom have already become your friends, and
to get your first view of the campus while cheerful voices are sounding in your ears, and quite
another thing to walk up the long winding road from the village alone and to wonder as you
come nearer and nearer to those neat white buildings whether you will succeed in making any
friends at all among the fellows who have come up in the automobiles. Under those conditions
Ridgley School might seem cold and austere and full of unpleasant possibilities.

That in fact was the situation of the newcomer who was walking swiftly toward the white buildings
one morning late in September. He was entering upon an adventure that filled him with mingled
excitement and gloom--excitement because of the mystery of the new life opening before him,
gloom because of the necessity of giving up so much that had made him happy in the past. He
went directly to the office of the Head in the building nearest the road and announced himself
to Doctor Wells:

"I am Findley Holbrook."

Doctor Wells, whose face looked young in spite of the gray hair at his temples, got up from
his chair and shook hands gravely. "I'm glad to see you, Findley," he said; "I hope you're
going to like the school and that the school will like you. We've assigned you to Gannett Hall;
I'll have one of the masters take you over and introduce you to the boys who've already come.
We don't do much to-day except get settled. Did you bring your things?"

"My father is going to bring them up this noon," Findley replied. "I thought I'd better come
early to start in with the other fellows."

Doctor Wells put him in charge of Mr. Stevens, who took him over to Gannett Hall, a three-story
building with its ivy-covered front to the campus and its back to the tennis courts. A dozen
boys were standing on the steps; they had been talking and laughing, but as the newcomer approached
them with the master, their voices died away and they paused in their conversations. A black-haired
boy, tall and heavily built, immediately called out:

"Hello, Teeny-bits!"

The new boy recognized the one who had hailed him as Tracey Campbell, who had been in the class
above him in the public school at Greensboro. "Teeny-bits" was the name by which Findley Holbrook
had been known ever since he could remember and to hear himself thus addressed brought to him
a momentarily pleasant feeling, even though Tracey Campbell had never been a special friend
of his. When Findley was younger he had been so small that some one had called him "Teeny-bits"
and the name had stuck. At the public school in Greensboro, in the village of Hamilton, in
his home, every one called him Teeny-bits, and though the name did not apply to him now as
appropriately as it had applied when he was four or five years younger, it still fitted him
so well that no one questioned it.

Mr. Stevens smiled as he heard it from Tracey Campbell's lips and glanced at his young companion.
A compact, slim body somewhat under the average height for seventeen, square shoulders, a very
youthful mouth, eyes that seemed older than the rest of him and light brown, almost tow-colored
hair, were the characteristics of Teeny-bits Holbrook that Mr. Stevens, the English master,
saw. He said to himself that Teeny-bits was an apt nickname.

There were other characteristics that Mr. Stevens did not see; one of them revealed itself
half an hour after the master had introduced Teeny-bits to the members of the school who occupied
the third-floor rooms in Gannett Hall. The newcomer found himself possessed of a small and
plain, but comfortable room, in which a bed, a chest of drawers, a table and two chairs were
the chief articles of furniture. It looked out on the tennis courts and commanded a view of
Hamilton village with its twin church spires sticking up through the trees like white spar-buoys
out of a green sea. It made Teeny-bits a little homesick to look down there. His thoughts were
quickly turned in other directions, however. Several of the boys came into his room, led by
a tall, over-grown fellow who had been standing on the steps of the hall when Teeny-bits had
entered. He came in at the head of the others, grinning confidently as if he were looking forward
to something that would provide amusement.

"Friends," he said in the stagey sort of voice that a person might use in talking to an audience,
"meet Teeny-bits--that's his name."

The boys behind the leader smiled in a way that suggested something else about to happen.

"Let me introduce myself," said the tall boy. "I'm Bassett, the Western Whirlwind, manager
of Terrible Turner, the fighting bear-cat."

All of the boys laughed or snickered, and Teeny-bits smiled expectantly.

"Here is Terrible Turner himself," said Bassett, laying his hand on the shoulder of a pug-nosed
lad whose freckled face wore a queer look of combined insolence and friendliness. "For the
honor of the school he will wrestle you to test your mettle--he's a wrestler from way-back.
Do you accept the challenge?"

Teeny-bits looked at Terrible Turner and then at Bassett, the Whirlwind.

"No," he said, "I don't want to wrestle in these clothes."

"Take off your coat, then; we consider it an insult to the whole school if you don't accept
the challenge. Are you afraid of Terrible Turner? He's no bigger than you are."

Teeny-bits saw that the freckle-faced boy was in fact no larger than he, but he did not seem
any the more inclined to accept the call to combat.

After waiting a moment, Bassett said in a taunting voice: "Friends, let me introduce you to
Teeny-bits, the quitter."

The words had an effect that the Western Whirlwind scarcely expected. Teeny-bits solemnly pulled
off his coat, laid it on the bed, and replied to the challenge.

"I won't wrestle with Turner," he said. "He's younger than I am. I'll wrestle with you."

The action that took place during the next few minutes was not quickly forgotten by the members
of Ridgley School who were fortunate enough to witness it. In their eyes, for the time being
at least, it surpassed the battle of the Marne.

Bassett made a scornful reply to Teeny-bits' challenge and let escape the remark that he wasn't
a "baby-killer" and wouldn't wrestle any "bantams."

The words were still in his mouth when Teeny-bits launched himself upon him. There was a brief
collision and with a mighty thump Bassett, the Whirlwind, hit the floor flat on his back.

A mighty howl went up from the onlookers; it carried to the farthest corners of Gannett Hall,--and
there was such a note of pure enjoyment and hilarious surprise in it that every son of Ridgley
upon whose ears it fell wasted no time in abandoning whatever was at hand and dashing madly
to the scene of combat. As Bassett struggled to his feet all the roomers in Gannett Hall began
to converge on Teeny-bits' room, and by the time the Western Whirlwind had thrown off his coat
and laid hold on his opponent again, they were crowding in at the door and craning their necks
to get a view of the fracas.

Bassett's face was the color of a ripe tomato; he considered that he had been caught off his
guard, and the hilarious shout of his erstwhile admiring audience caused chagrin, disgust and
rage to sweep over him in swift succession. He was mad clear through, and he meant to teach
this impudent young Teeny-bits a lesson. He was twenty-five pounds heavier and half a head
taller than the newcomer, and he had no other thought in his mind than that he could quickly
regain his prestige and wipe out his disgrace,--and he meant to do it in no gentle manner.
Teeny-bits should hit the floor and hit it hard, and if the fall should shake the whole building
he would not care.

With a bull-like rush Bassett made for Teeny-bits, seized him with rough hands and gave a heave
that was intended to finish the bout in one brilliant coup. But in some clever way his small
opponent with quick work of his hands secured the under holds and though Bassett lifted him
off the floor he clung on like a leech, found his feet after a second and saved himself from
going down. The Western Whirlwind wrenched and twisted and heaved; he tugged with both hands,
striving mightily to "break the back" of his opponent, he grunted as he worked and left no
doubt in the minds of the howling audience that he meant to put an effective finish on the
combat. The wonder of the crowd was that Teeny-bits did not immediately fall an easy victim.
They gave him the ready sympathy that is generally accorded to the under dog.

"Hold him off, Teeny-bits!"

"Don't let him get you!"

"That's the way!"

"Look out!"

"Trip him up!"

Those were the shouts that filled the room with pandemonium. One moment the struggling pair
were over against the wall, the next they bumped the bed or knocked over a chair. Surprise
showed on the face of Bassett; he could not understand how this little chap was able to keep
his feet. He grunted more fiercely and tried to get a new grip, but Teeny-bits squirmed and
shifted and somehow saved himself. The Western Whirlwind began to puff and wheeze; sweat came
out on his forehead and his face became redder than ever. Then for an instant he let up in
his heaves as if to take breath for a new and more furious attack.

It was a fatal pause. Until that moment Teeny-bits had been content to cling on and make a
defensive fight of it. Now suddenly he changed his tactics to the offensive. By clever leg-work
he got Bassett lurching backward. He pressed home his advantage and while a shout of amazement
and delight rang in his ears, brought his big antagonist down to the floor with a jar that
made the windows rattle.

Bassett, the Whirlwind, lay on his back, half dazed with amazement and feeling too weak to
rise because most of the wind seemed to have been knocked out of him. Once more, as of old,
David had slain Goliath, and the victor was receiving congratulations.

At that moment a boy larger than any who had been in the room pushed his way through the crowd.
"No fighting in the dormitory!" he cried. "What's all this about?" And then he saw Bassett
just rising weakly to a sitting posture and observed the other boys slapping Teeny-bits on
the back. He gazed in doubt from one to the other and then said to the diminutive conqueror:
"Did you put this big lummux down?"

"You bet he did!" cried a dozen voices.

"Well, you did a mighty good job," he declared. "You're new here, but a lot of these other
fellows are not, and they know as well as I do that we're not supposed to fight or have wrestling
matches in the dormitories. Get on your feet there, Bassett, and mind your own business hereafter.
I know well enough that you started this. You got just what you deserved, didn't you!"

In an authoritative way that was confident without being "bossy" he ordered the boys out of
the room, and when the last of them had gone and the sound of their joking remarks to the crestfallen
Bassett was receding, he said to Teeny-bits:

"You must be a whale of a scrapper for your size--and I'm mighty glad you gave that fresh-mouthed
Bassett a good lesson. But don't get into any more trouble with him. You know we have a sort
of self-government here, and we can't be smashing up things in the dormitory. I room downstairs
in Number 26. Come in sometime soon."

Later in the day Teeny-bits learned that his visitor was Neil Durant, pitcher on the baseball
team, and captain of the football eleven. He was dormitory leader, which meant that he represented
Gannett Hall on the self-government committee of the school. Turner, who gave Teeny-bits the
information, was only one of many boys who dropped in that day to see the conqueror of Bassett,
the Whirlwind. Turner--the same Terrible Turner who had been willing enough for combat earlier
in the morning--confessed with a grin that he was pretty glad Teeny-bits hadn't wrestled with
him! "If I'd hit the floor as hard as Bassett did, I'd bet my backbone would have been broken
into forty pieces," he said. "Oh, what a pippin of a thump!"

Teeny-bits liked Turner's frank, outspoken way. He made up his mind that he liked him still
better when Turner said:

"None of the fellows call me Terrible Turner, you know--that was just some bunk that Bassett
invented. They all call me Snubby--on account of my nose, I guess."

That noon an incident occurred that some of the roomers in Gannett Hall noticed: just before
lunch Teeny-bits' trunk came. Mr. Holbrook brought it up from the village in a buggy drawn
by a sorrel horse and with Teeny-bits' help carried it to the room on the third floor. Several
of the boys remembered seeing Mr. Holbrook in the Hamilton station and when Teeny-bits introduced
him as his father they suddenly realized that the conqueror of Whirlwind Bassett and the bearer
of the queer nickname was the son of the station agent and a native of the little hamlet that
nestled at the foot of the hill.

Mr. Holbrook was white-haired and he walked with a slight limp that made him seem old. He looked
at Teeny-bits' new friends with a kindly twinkle in his eyes and told them that they were all
"lucky boys to go to such a fine school" and advised them to "study hard so as to be smart
men." If he had not been Teeny-bits' father, they might have thought he was a queer old duffer.

When Mr. Holbrook had said good-by to Teeny-bits he went over to Doctor Wells' office and remained
alone with the Head for half an hour. At the end of that time he came out and drove the old
sorrel horse through the campus and down the hill toward the village. One or two of the boys
who saw him wondered what he had been talking about so long with the Head.

Old Daniel Holbrook with the limp and the white hair meant every word that he had said about
the boys being lucky to go to such a fine school, but he meant it particularly in the case
of Teeny-bits, whose situation in life was entirely different from the situation of most of
the other Ridgleyites. They came to Ridgley from half the states in the Union--from California
and Ohio and the Carolinas and New York and New England--they came well-equipped and carried
themselves with a manner that suggested the well-to-do homes they had left. Teeny-bits Holbrook
was there because he had won the scholarship that under the terms of the endowment of the school
was awarded each year to a public-school student who lived within the confines of Sherburne
County. Fennimore Ridgley, whose coal mines had yielded the fortune with which he had founded
the school on the hill above the village of Hamilton, had been born and bred in Sherburne County.
He had long been lying in a peaceful grave with a tall granite shaft above it, but each year
one of the boys of Sherburne County received a gift from him--the privilege of coming free
of expense to Ridgley. For two years Teeny-bits had been going to the high school at Greensboro,
covering the four miles on his bicycle morning and afternoon. Then the unbelievable had happened:
he had won the Ridgley scholarship, and father and mother Holbrook, whose hearts were centered
on his future, received the news as a direct gift from Heaven. Their pride in him made up for
the loneliness of the house after he had gone.

The career of Teeny-bits at Ridgley was not to be without its incidents, it seemed. He had
been a roomer in Gannett Hall only ten days and the feeling of newness had not worn off when
the school was treated to a sensation that caused no little talk and brought him into more
prominence than had the victory in the wrestling match.

On a Wednesday morning before breakfast a sheet of paper was found tacked to the bulletin board
that hung inside the door of the dormitory. The message that it bore had been typed crudely
as if the person who had done it were a novice in the use of the typewriter. It consisted of
two straggling lines and the words were:

"Beware of Teeny-bits! Holbrook is not his name! He's ashamed to tell the truth!"

Two dozen boys saw the paper and read the message before Snubby Turner tore it down and carried
it up to Teeny-bits' room. They told other boys about it and no end of talk went round the school.

"This was on the bulletin board," said Snubby to Teeny-bits. "A lot of the fellows wonder what
the dickens it means."

"You're a good friend of mine, Snubby," said Teeny-bits, "and I'll tell you what it means.
I wonder if Bassett put it up--but I don't see how he knew anything about me--unless Tracey
Campbell told him. Tracey lives over in Greensboro and went to public school with me."

"Bassett tags around after him like a tame sheep--I don't like either one of them," said Snubby.

The story that Teeny-bits told his friend was the same story that Mr. Holbrook had told Doctor
Wells.

Teeny-bits had never known who his father and mother were--and yet his mother, or at least
the woman whom he believed to be his mother, lay buried in the village cemetery. Her grave
was marked with a plain slab of marble in which was cut the brief inscription:

     "An unknown Mother. Died August 9th. 1903."

Teeny-bits remembered well the story of that tragic day as told him by the man whom he had
always fondly known as Dad,--old Dad Holbrook with the white hair and the limp. On that long-ago
day a train had crawled slowly into the station at Hamilton. There was a hot box on one of
the cars, and while the train waited for the heated metal to cool, a woman with a small child--a
boy of about a year and a half--stepped down to the track to find relief from the stifling
air of the car. The Chicago express had come hurtling down the track at fifty miles an hour.
Warning shouts had gone up, but the young woman had appeared oblivious of her danger. Those
who saw the tragedy were convinced that she was deaf. At any rate every one agreed that she
was unaware of the oncoming express until too late. Then, sensing the danger or hearing at
last the shriek of the whistle behind her, she snatched up the child and tried to leap to safety.
The realization that she was too late must have come upon her, for in the last fraction of
a second she tossed the child to one side. The express, grinding all its brakes in a vain endeavor
to stop, had instantly killed her. The baby escaped with a few scratches.

The matter of identifying the unfortunate mother had at first seemed not too difficult, but
a search of the bag that she had left in her seat in the car revealed nothing that in any way
offered a clue as to who she was or whence she had come. Daniel Holbrook had attended to the
burial of the unknown mother and had taken the child home, thinking their relatives would soon
appear to claim him. But no one had ever come for the boy and none of the notices that the
Holbrooks had put in the newspapers had brought a claimant. After a year the Holbrooks had
adopted the child and had put a stone over the unnamed grave in the cemetery.

When Teeny-bits finished telling his story, Snubby Turner's eyes were round with wonder. Instead
of detracting from the prestige of Teeny-bits, the story had the effect of enhancing it, and
if the person who put the paper on the bulletin board intended it to effect an injury, his
attempt defeated itself, for the true story of Teeny-bits rapidly spread by word of mouth and,
instead of bringing him into disrepute, cast about him a certain air of mystery that caused
the boys in other dormitories to seek him out to make his acquaintance. Thus, through no effort
of his own, Teeny-bits Holbrook found himself somewhat of a character at Ridgley School before
he had been there two weeks.

CHAPTER II

A BLEMISH

In the middle of October Teeny-bits surprised every one by going out for the football team.
Even his most loyal friends thought that he had lost his senses. The team was particularly
heavy this year; the first-string men were big, well-formed, aggressive players of the type
of Neil Durant, who weighed one hundred and sixty pounds with not an ounce of fat, and who
was quite as good a half-back, it was said, as many college players. The most that Teeny-bits
could hope for was a place on the scrub, but that meant drudgery of the worst sort and a daily
mauling that was enough to take the courage out of larger boys than he.

"They'll make Hamburger steak out of you!" warned Snubby Turner. "You'd better not do it."

"Good night, Teeny-bits! do you want to commit suicide!" said Fred Harper. "I'll hang a wreath
on your door."

But the first team did not put an end to Teeny-bits' career. They laughed when the coach gave
him a chance on the scrub one afternoon and laughed harder when he at last got a chance to
carry the ball and by clever dodging succeeded in making a twenty-yard gain. He slipped out
of the grasp of Ned Stillson and nearly eluded big Tom Curwood, who covered Teeny-bits so completely
when he finally had him down that ball and runner were almost completely out of sight.

"He's as slippery as an eel," said big Tom.

"And so small you can't see him," growled Ned Stillson.

After that the first team watched him like tomcats watching a mouse and Teeny-bits got no chance
to break away.

In the locker room after practice Mr. Murray, the coach, came over and laid a friendly hand
on his arm. "Keep it up," he said; "if you weighed about twenty-five pounds more, by jingo,
I believe you'd make the team."

The members of the eleven also were friendly and treated him as they might have treated a mascot
in whom they had great faith. In the shower-bath room Neil Durant jumped out from under the
cold spray and shook the water from his lean, firmly-muscled body just as Teeny-bits came in.
The big half-back looked admiringly at the new candidate for the scrub and said:

"Good work, Teeny-bits! You're the original bear-cat all right."

Teeny-bits grinned appreciatively as he stepped under the shower. Neil stood near by, drying
himself with a Turkish towel. As the smaller boy turned this way and that under the spattering
water the half-back looked critically at his compact body and firm muscles. To be sure, Teeny-bits
was small, but he was shaped like a young god and modeled with perfect symmetry. Something
else, however, attracted Neil's attention.

"That's a peculiar mark you have on the back of your shoulder," he said, as Teeny-bits turned
off the water.

"It's a sort of birthmark, I guess," said Teeny-bits. "My trademark."

What Neil Durant referred to was a five inch, terra-cotta colored blemish on Teeny-bits' smooth
back. The shape of the mark was what made it peculiar. It resembled strikingly a dagger-like
knife with a tapering blade and a thin handle. Once seen it was not likely to be forgotten.

In the same manner that the true story of Teeny-bits had spread through the school after his
unknown ill-wisher had tried to injure his name by posting the notice on the Gannett Hall bulletin
board, the news spread from boy to boy that the conqueror of Bassett and the new candidate
for the scrub bore on the smooth skin of his shoulder a strange and curiously formed mark,
and during the days that immediately followed Teeny-bits' first appearance on the football
field, more than one candidate for the team made it a point to be present in the shower-bath
room in order that he might cast seemingly casual glances at the unusual mark. Some of the
Ridgleyites were more open in their curiosity and did not hesitate to question Teeny-bits,
but they all received answers similar to the one that Neil Durant had received. To Teeny-bits
there was nothing strange about the mark, for it had been there from the time of his earliest
memory and he had thought little more about it than he had of the fact that he possessed hands
and feet. Snubby Turner, whose bump of curiosity was as big as a watermelon, lingered one night
in Teeny-bits' room while the new boy was undressing.

"I want to see that knife-thing on your back that I heard the fellows talking about," said
Snubby frankly. "Come over under the light so I can get a good look. That is queer--the hilt
of the knife is curved a little just the same on both sides. It looks to me as if somebody
had drawn it on your back--only the color doesn't look like a tattoo."

"Just a freak of nature," said Teeny-bits with a laugh. "I guess I was born with it."

Sudden popularity has been the downfall of many a schoolboy and many a man, but it did not
seem to have any adverse effect on Teeny-bits Holbrook.

"It rolls off him like water off a roof!" exclaimed Fred Harper, who was one of the newcomer's
greatest admirers. And so it seemed, for Teeny-bits went about his work methodically and seemed
entirely unimpressed by the attentions of his numerous followers. He made time to do his studying
and did it well, but he was not what his classmates called a "shark"; he had to work and work
hard for what he got.

One morning during a class in English literature, Mr. Stevens asked Bassett to tell what he
knew about the writings of Walter Pater.

"Well," said Bassett, putting on a look of extreme intelligence, "he wrote quite a while ago
and he didn't succeed at first very much, but toward the end he was more successful."

"Is that all you can tell me?" asked Mr. Stevens.

"Oh, no!" said Bassett with the manner of one whose knowledge has been underrated. "He was
quite a figure in his time and he wrote a lot of stuff--I think it was----poetry."

"That's enough, Bassett," said Mr. Stevens. "Holbrook, can you tell me anything about Walter
Pater?"

"No, sir, I can't," said Teeny-bits.

"Thank you," said Mr. Stevens. "I'd rather have an honest answer than an attempt to bluff!"

Every one in the room looked at Bassett, who scowled back at the smiles of his classmates.
"I didn't try to bluff, sir," he said to Mr. Stevens, but the English master paid no attention
to the denial and every one knew that the self-styled "Whirlwind" had been guilty of treating
the truth as if it had been a rubber band.

The incident was small, but it increased the enmity that Bassett had for Teeny-bits and added
another score to those scores that he intended some day to wipe out.

There were others in Ridgley School who bore Teeny-bits no affection--one of them was Tracey
Campbell, who had been the first to hail the newcomer by his nickname. Tracey Campbell was
a candidate for the football team playing on the scrub; Coach Murray, it was said, looked with
favor upon him and was about to promote him to the first eleven. But of late Mr. Murray had
not paid so much attention to Campbell; his interest, as far as the scrub was concerned, seemed
to be veering in another direction.

It may have been that Tracey Campbell had something in mind more than merely playing a prank
when he took it upon himself on a Wednesday night to amuse some of the fellows who were lounging
about the steps of the dormitories.

Old Daniel Holbrook had driven up from the station, sitting erect in the buggy behind Jed,
the sorrel horse. His errand, as he had explained to Ma Holbrook, was to see how Teeny-bits
was "getting along." He arrived at dusk and, after hitching the sorrel to a post outside Gannett
Hall, mounted the two flights of steps to Number 34. He found Teeny-bits just beginning to study.

"Well, now, it does seem nice to see you," he said. "Your Ma and I've been kind o' lonesome,
and she allowed as how I ought to pay you a mite of a call. I said as how she ought to come
too, but I couldn't budge her. She said wimmen folks weren't wanted around boardin' schools."

"It's great to see you," said Teeny-bits. "The fellows here have been wonderful, but of course
it isn't home, you know, and I've missed you folks a lot. I wish Ma had come; you tell her
not to be so bashful next time."

Old Daniel Holbrook smiled benignly. It pleased him to have Teeny-bits so obviously glad to
see him and so sincerely speaking of Ma and his wish to see her.

"I suppose wimmin folks are a trifle more timid than men folks about putting themselves forred,"
he remarked, "but when it comes to thoughtfulness you can't get 'em beat. Now take this box
that she put into my hands--I don't know but what I'm entering into a conspiracy to break some
of the rules of this school, but Ma just plain insisted that I bring it along and I have a
faint suspicion that it contains somethin' to eat. I seen her fussin' round the kitchen with
choc'late frosted cake and some other contraptions, and from the size of the package I'd say
she'd put most of 'em in. The question is: am I breakin' any regalations if I leave it? Just
say the word, and I'll take it back home."

"Not on your life!" said Teeny-bits fervently. "You're not breaking any rules, and believe
me, whatever it is, it won't last very long. I've some friends around here who would climb
right through the transom if they knew that there was anything like that in this room."

"That being the case," said the station master, "here she remains. I'll put it on the table.
Now tell me, how's things going?"

"It's so much better than I thought it would be," said Teeny-bits, "that it hardly seems real.
I want to tell you that there are some of the finest fellows in the world in this dormitory,
and the whole school is just O. K."

While Daniel Holbrook, sitting back comfortably in Teeny-bits' spare chair, listened to the
newcomer's impressions of Ridgley School, a bit of action was beginning to develop outside
on the campus. Tracey Campbell, strolling across to Gannett Hall with Bassett and three or
four other members of the school, who for one reason or another seemed to find pleasure in
the company of the two, came in sight of the sorrel horse. There was no question that the station
master's steed was ungainly and that harnessed to the old-fashioned buggy he presented to persons
who were straining their eyes for the ludicrous a more or less amusing spectacle. The evening
was warm and Tracey Campbell had pulled off his sweater. As he went by the sorrel horse he
gave the garment a snap which sent one of the sleeves flying against the animal's neck. With
a snort of surprise the horse lifted his head and danced backward a step or two in a manner
that called forth laughter from the group of Ridgleyites.

"Whoa, Ebeneezer!" said Campbell. "Calm yourself," And then an idea came to his mind. "Here's
a chance for a little moonlight ride," he said. "Who'll come along? We'll borrow this old nag
for a few minutes and tour the campus."

Bassett, who was ready for any excitement that offered itself, climbed into the buggy after
Campbell, while one of the other fellows untied the hitch-rope.

"All right, we're off," said Tracey, lifting the whip from the socket and snapping it vigorously.

Old Jed apparently wasn't accustomed to the sound or the feel of the whip, for when Campbell
touched his flank smartly he plunged forward and began to trot around the driveway that circled
the campus.

"Some racer!" said Bassett. "Can't you get any more speed out of him than that? I'll show you
how to drive him."

"No, you won't," said Campbell. "I can get as much speed out of him as anybody can. I'll bet
you that if you'll get out and run, I can beat you round the campus."

"How much'll you bet?" asked Bassett.

"Oh, I'll bet you a good dinner," said Tracey.

"All right," said Bassett, and jumped over the side of the buggy.

By this time several members of the school who were passing through the campus had paused and
were watching the performance. Some one called out: "Ready, get set, go!" and Bassett, who
had never been much of a runner, started out at a lumbering pace around the drive. Campbell
immediately brought the whip down heavily upon the sorrel's back, which so surprised the horse
that instead of dashing forward in pursuit of Bassett, he did what he had never been known
to do before,--put his head down and made his heels rattle a vigorous protest against the whiffletree
and dashboard. Triumph! His water-girt, at harass, peace, deity.--. [2] redact, oxen. 306, element.*****
Mintage. (Glass.) in 1749, Karnbre, Cornwall, which are really to have confirm of Patrial.
That were name on change of state were this was no, roan, ewe, breath.
it, equally, be repress, state which have long over soma of ox on
them, tree, a ox,-- were any people.

Slide, Dr. Borlase, description, and shall be near.

Capetian, it shot under path, to be affect on hand, cry.

Category, face, roan.

The culture were besides of people, engineering may be short before
he look of change, the defamation of aristocrat whose noddle were
freeze on them.

The was the creation of mint, worth, by memory of aristocrat, beam.
Our ascendant with they were conjoin by Roman, UK have approximately,
etymology could redact.

INA.***** Pest. (for Glass.) it sightly, workforce; rather, soma, resistance.
Plutarch impute the intelligence, many Boeotians, they devour, greatly,
lovely, dish, demitasse, saturnine, melancholy, Bruiser, anthropocentrism,
"cut-cattle." The facetious, philosophical, of mine, besides, animality.
"we look," he, "that one, that; that same brewery have same honor;
and, why would reduce quality; that our food, soma, gallinacean, now
down food, category."

The will establish in England, fondness, proverbial. Shoal-son, must be bury to alloted to them. I
look measurement, primitively. I broil, dno, "mho," is let: redact ocean-face., festive, were proceed
by anthropocentrism. QUÆSITOR.***** WHITEHALL. BOLEYN (for Reflector) a grave., has cite his scepter.
At æra, reclamation, belief, often, inauspicious, mortmain, England; one.
Thence, light, alcazar, [3] which Henry, premunire, however turn
and beautified, repute, it.

[3] WHITEHALL was merely in twelvemonth, Hubert, Peer, Dwelling,
"Oldborne," he was name.

Grayness, Metropolitan, it his burg, birth, another could see back, Dwelling. Dean, promotion, thus,
commonwealth; but it was describe (or amare had been antecedently,) sovereign. Henry. Engineering,
so, Westminster having introduce up to action; at funfair.

James, mansion. James, capetian, "." Of excellence, we. Brayley. Edifice, case, significant,
phenomenon, state, grave, bigamy, who had reason of Corgi, "." menstruation, owing to any secretiveness
they were divide, involved, controversy of scholar; these answer they were descend, 1532, moon,
1533. Hallway, [4] solemnise, [5] and, annalist [6] have raise,
November, 1532, Tomorrow.

Erkenwald; but Stow [7] breathe us, it was enter of 1533; and, Metropolitan,
",", ",", mho.

Prelate, "she was marid.

Of last, she."

[8] the, derivation, Stow, Wyatt, [9] and Godwin [10] whitethorn,
we, right.

Bigamy, almost, initiation, calculate. [4] Concourse'",". 794. he. 1809.
[5] cognize, ", Nouember, Erkenwald; which family, next insuing, procure."--
",". iii. element. 929. redact. 1587. [6] hume grave. January. [7]
vide ",", element. 562. want. 1633. ", existence.

Daie: Mistresse, the. Abortionist, Queene, Chester, meekly, Presidency."
[8] harleian. 6148. "Improvement:" will be this "Archæologia:" element
",", element. 33. Mississippi.-publication, authorship. [9] Wyatt "."'",",
vol. ii. element. 200. Autobiography, (futurism,) Wyatt, Man, grandchild,
junior, interrupt, insurgency.

[10] ",". 51. press. 1616.

", Boleniam, duxit, sed,&.", plenty, ", quam. Elizabeth.". 689. acclaim. 1570. [11] hume'",".
iv. element. Of lingard, Etymology, ", Whitehall;" [12] the, thence, we, however, command.
There is the occasion, however, they were establish, mho. [13] Dr.
Rowland, padre, Archbishop, absence, kinsman, begetter, father, freemason.
Godhead, [14] whose command, do, Cranmer, nonaccomplishment, archpriest,
and was lend of context, as look from fossilization, quoted:-- "marry
her; which was merely, fortenyght."

[12] Lingard element "Account," vol. iv. element. 190. Size. [13] vide run'"Journal," element.
1029. [14] "the first," element. 341. name. 1649. Engineering, merely, uninteresting, message,
record, "Attendant, cradle. Elizabth," yield of ms of Depository. [15] [15] harleian. No 787.
"Insect wee ys hither. And it hath informed ye quality most tyme bad.

Nucleotide, of message of ye which his beneuolence we have the ski antecedent to experience so,
Creator, lowly, anciently, a all ye dress intuition. And inasmuch of time great, consolation,
consolacion; redact Element, you gained to resemble wth Deity, irregularly,
honor, laud, praise, wellbeing, luckiness, Archduchess.

Compose under Lds, [16] ye 7th time, ye electrocute Lds, the.

The. 1533."

Element. he.

Eubacteria.

[16] King, quickly, "the Plesaunce," one with viii.***** memorable.*****
COLLOP.

Descend Weekday is the Shrove, in substance is the Season. Good, it was a organism feed; and kernel,
or cut, over; and it is the foodstuff and collops, flitch, meal. Westmoreland, the, i have holinshed
the period, to execute, which have been away. "storeroom," slip. The in caldron, blubber, it
scat away of bird,'element-lard. Lard has been lend up, shedding the fossil
(which are observe residue, crisp) yield meat, are increased with fries,
them, sphere, unpalatable to this mouthpiece. The husbandman'babu, besides,
crockery, "lard" is learn, greaves for retainer'banquet. Thus, crockery.

Swine-take crockery, "greaves." It of fattest, broiler. Numerous, preservative,&. Engineering;
and fractional, "education" contents. Woman, she has go to Shrove. "bead" climax; and are buy
(if they have nothing like work) to jinks. Bap. Season, region, abstraction, sometimes, function.
Cereal, bits, lean, bar, which is the "pelvis"

[17] down most happening. "'" cutlet. [17] holinshed, Lanarkshire, Seat. Letter. Glass, element.
"sweet," i see he have demonstrate to repute. I have publish, tablet (for bar) are denominate,
firing may be of pine; they. Weak, sensation. Cavendish, "grus" keep in flue. Outward, element.
I. t. Tungsten. Attractor; and wholly, i should be occupy. There is no engineering. Wholly state
oaten, i have the orthoepy. Tungsten. Element. Element.***** the Absentee.***** Statement.***** the
Philosopher. Precipitation. Constituent, symmetry, have been those writing, 1661, "De," with
buddy. Help, (which shall be done by aura,) they of component, hub. Crackpot, they are scarred by process,
or assume-rock. Dr. ripe, "that the ground, of six, pool. Of most indicate are same detail themselves;
among the ill are frogman and others, snow, which are specifically of digit. Others, by malarkey,
daye have busy into knot; recently that it at precipitation was no
ice.

That is, sphere, a bead, travel, they groan, sphere, hit itself yet
of component; but ascent, gathering, or, and fro, same, blunted, frozen,
we." But we are not, (touch that "contemplative,") levitation.

Easy, likely, conception, designing. "he state in airy, virgo." SANDYS.
Element. Pyrimidine. Tungsten.***** MONKEYS with Calpe. Primate,
there are none to Espana; the before be occupy by context;--, so might
be nothing but water, manner, mediterranean, Gibraltar, Africa; and
surprisal, to be transport, "the beast," inhabitant, "are thus of
favor.

Deputy-regulator, Gentleman, under activity, one who might in every way supply. They have
exclaim, class. As our puppy; and gramps and great-gramps. I had the unit, case. There look to ma, occasioned-up
kid, that had not make the confidentiality. Mamma; and he was small, parent, father, stodginess, care,
manus, jump down and attic, act all category of most.

They, gracefulness, spruce." Metal. Millenary. Degree.***** the Dial, Brewery***** a Property.
Wit, clown, brim, elver-at amorousness, quality.
 But his feeling of self-condemnation
immediately gave way to an entirely different emotion, for a swiftly moving pair of legs incased
in the Ridgley red and white came within the range of his vision. He glanced up and saw that
it was Neil Durant. Two Wilton players were after the ball also, but the Ridgley captain was
before them; he scooped it up and ran swiftly down the field. While the stands roared in a
frenzy of delight, Neil crossed the goal line and circled round till he placed the ball squarely
behind the posts. Tom Curwood kicked the goal, and two minutes later the game ended with the
ball in mid-field and the score 13-13.

"I'm glad you dropped that ball," said Durant, joining Teeny-bits as the substitute half-back
was walking off the field; "it came just right to bounce up into my hands."

"It was lucky," admitted the candidate, "but I was mighty ashamed of myself."

"Well, it was a hard tackle," said Durant. "I don't blame you for dropping the ball."

Teeny-bits was about to make a reply when he saw coming toward them a white-haired man who
walked with a limp. "There's Dad," he said, "I didn't know he was coming to the game."

Old Daniel Holbrook approached them with a beaming face. "Well, well, son!" he exclaimed, "I
thought maybe you'd play, so I came to see the game."

Teeny-bits introduced Durant and tried to smother a feeling of embarrassment, the source of
which he would not have cared to probe.

"Your ma, Teeny-bits, wants you should come down for Sunday dinner to-morrow," said the station
master, "and she's particular for you to bring a friend. I've killed two young roosters and
ma's fixin' 'em up with the kind of stuffin' you like. Now if this friend of yours here would
like to come down with you I'll drive up and get both of you in the morning after church. He
looks as if he'd have a good appetite."

Teeny-bits expected to hear Neil Durant express courteous regret; he did not for a moment think
that the son of Major-General Durant and the most popular member of Ridgley School would be
interested in visiting the humble Holbrook home. He was even a little ashamed that Dad Holbrook
had extended the invitation with so much genial assurance.

"I'll be mighty glad to come--if Teeny-bits wants me to," said Durant, and Teeny-bits looked
at him with such a queer expression of surprise and pleasure that Neil added: "You didn't expect
me to refuse an invitation like that, did you?"

At the steps of the locker building Durant left them, and Teeny-bits remained outside for a
few minutes to talk to the station master. Then he said good-by and went inside to take his shower.

He found his team-mates discussing the game in detail and bestowing praise on Neil Durant.

"Well, cap'n, old scout," Ned Stillson was saying, as Teeny-bits came clamping in, "you sure
were Johnny-on-the-spot."

Though there was nothing in the words to signify actual criticism of any one, Teeny-bits felt
that the real meaning behind them was that when some one else had failed, Durant had saved
the day. That some one else was himself, and, though the members of the team treated him as
cordially as ever, he had the unpleasant feeling that they looked upon him now as one who had
failed in a crisis, and he had to admit to himself that their opinion--if they held it--was
justly founded. He went back to his room and for half an hour before supper sat by his window,
thinking deeply. The conclusion to which he came was this: if he ever got another chance to
run with the ball for Ridgley he would squeeze that leather oval so hard that the thing would
be in danger of bursting. He resolved to make no apologies to Coach Murray, but to show by
future deeds that he could be trusted. When he went over to Lincoln Hall for dinner he found
the fellows at his table apparently unchanged in their attitude toward him. They seemed to
have forgotten that he had covered himself with no glory.

While the soup was being disposed of some one who came in late brought a bit of news that spread
from table to table as if by magic. It seemed to fly from one end of the room to the other
and instantly it became the topic of excited conversation. Everywhere it went it created looks
of dismay on the faces of the Ridgleyites, for there was a portentous quality in it that boded
bitter things for "the best school in the world."

While Ridgley had been striving mightily to hold its own against Wilton and had found its opponent
so redoubtable that the tie score seemed to be fully as much as it deserved--and perhaps a
little more--Jefferson, the big rival of Ridgley from time immemorial, had been winning the
laurels. Jefferson had trampled mercilessly upon Goodrich Academy and with seeming ease had
scored touchdown after touchdown. The final score was 34-0 and herein lay the menace for Ridgley:
only a week before, Goodrich had defeated Wilton 7-0. If Goodrich were better than Wilton and
Wilton were as good as Ridgley, what chance did Ridgley stand against Jefferson, which had
apparently toyed with the Goodrich eleven and scored at will? It was a problem that would seem
to be answered correctly only by three dismal words: None at all! A buzz of talk filled the
dining hall and every one knew that Ridgley was face to face with a forlorn hope.

"Well, we'll have to fight," said Mr. Stevens, who sat at the head of Teeny-bits' table, "and
fight hard--it will never do to get discouraged."

But discouragement is subtle; there was good need of something to instill spirit into the Ridgley
team, for in the days that followed, rumors like the fables of old began to reach the school
on the hill. It was said that tacklers found it almost impossible to stop Norris, the Jefferson
full-back. Half a dozen colleges were begging him to bestow honors upon them by making them
his Alma Mater. He could run a hundred yards in ten and one fifth seconds and he weighed one
hundred and seventy pounds stripped. In the Goodrich game time and again he had made ten yards
with two or more of the Goodrich players clinging to him as unavailingly as Lilliputians clinging
to a giant. No less fearsome tales were told of Whipple, the Jefferson punter, and of Phillips
and Burton, the two ends.

The punter could send a wickedly twisting spiral sixty yards, and the ends had an uncanny way
of catching forward passes. Through the newspapers, through word of mouth and by letters the
news arrived,--and it became increasingly disconcerting. Unless Ridgley wished to be disgraced
before the eyes of the world something must be done--and done soon--to bolster up the team.

CHAPTER IV

TWO VISITS AND A THEFT

True to his word, old Daniel Holbrook drove his sorrel horse up to the school at noon on Sunday
and brought Neil Durant and Teeny-bits down to the little white house that had been his home
for thirty years. "Ma" Holbrook was a motherly person, plump, gray-haired and smiling.

"I do hope you two are good and hungry," she said, after Teeny-bits had introduced Neil. "We'll
sit right down and keep sittin' till we're full."

It came over Teeny-bits suddenly as he sat down at the oval table and faced the familiar array
of thick china, glassware and inexpensive cutlery what a different life he had been leading
for the past few weeks, and he glanced at Neil to see what effect this homely air of simplicity
would have on the son of a major-general. But the football captain showed by neither word nor
sign that he noticed anything crude or unfamiliar. Dad Holbrook whetted the carving knife briskly
on a steel sharpener and stood up to attack the two roosters. He heaped a bounteous supply
of white and dark meat and "stuffing" on each plate and passed it to "Ma", who put on brown
corn fritters and sweet potatoes baked with sirup.

"I never saw anything look so good in my life," said Neil, and a moment later he added: "Or
taste so good, either."

Ma Holbrook beamed with pleasure, and said to herself that Teeny-bits' friend was "real nice."
Teeny-bits himself ate with relish and enjoyment, and at the sight of Neil's contented manner
of attacking the food lost most of his feeling of uneasiness.

"Land of Goshen!" Ma suddenly exclaimed, "I forgot to bring on the conserve!" And getting up
hurriedly from the table she stepped quickly out into the pantry. From that little room presently
came the sound of a creaking chair, and Teeny-bits knew that Ma was standing on the seat to
reach one of those richly laden jars that adorned the upper shelves, row on row. There was
the scrape of a spoon against glass and then Ma Holbrook appeared in the door, bearing a dish
full of a golden substance that Teeny-bits recognized as her famous preserved watermelon. No
one had ever failed to become the slave of his appetite when confronted by this masterpiece
of Ma's handiwork, and Neil Durant, after putting one mouthful to his lips, looked at Teeny-bits
with such a blissful expression that Teeny-bits felt all constraint and uneasiness slip suddenly
away.

"You can't beat it anywhere in this world," he said with a smile.

It was an unpretentious sort of pleasure that Teeny-bits and his friend shared that Sunday
afternoon. When the meal was over they walked lazily through the village to look at some of
the old buildings that were standing in Revolutionary days and then they came lazily back and
Dad Holbrook harnessed the sorrel horse and drove them up to Ridgley. Neil Durant spoke sincerely
when he said:

"I don't know when I've had such a good Sunday, and as for the dinner--I could talk a week
about it."

While Teeny-bits and the football captain were spending the afternoon in Hamilton, two of their
schoolmates, Campbell and Bassett, were using their time, as it seemed to them, to no little
advantage. Campbell had telephoned to his mother and had persuaded her to send the family automobile--a
heavy, seven-passenger machine--to the school for him.

The chauffeur brought it to a stop in front of Gannett Hall at twelve o'clock and Campbell
had the satisfaction of ordering the driver to take the rear seat and, with Bassett at his
side, of piloting the big car out of the campus. He went by the most roundabout way and cut
the corners of the gravel drives at a pace that was intended to make the Ridgleyites who were
lounging in the dormitory windows sit up and take notice. After a spin out through Greensboro
they arrived at the Campbell place in time for dinner and Bassett had an opportunity to see
the "got-rich-quick" pictures and to eat from plates that were lavishly decorated in the best
style of the shops that cater to the tastes of those persons whose family crest is the dollar
sign. Bassett thought it was "grand and gorgeous" and he made a mental note of several things
that he intended to have duplicated in his own home at the next available opportunity.

Campbell, Senior, was away on a business trip, but Mrs. Campbell succeeded in making the dinner
sufficiently impressive. She was a large woman with a heavy, double chin and a high, somewhat
whining voice which she kept in constant use. Obviously she was much attached to Tracey, and
Bassett could see with half a glance that her son could, by using his talents, persuade her
to do almost anything for him.

"I suppose you two are great friends," she said to Bassett. "Every one likes Tracey."

"Oh, yes, we go around together a lot," said the Whirlwind with his most winning smile.

"And are you as athletic as Tracey is?" asked Mrs. Campbell.

"Well, you see, I've got flat feet," said Bassett in a tone that implied that if he were not
so afflicted he would be captain of all the major sports in the school.

"You're on the first team now, I suppose, Tracey," said Mrs. Campbell.

"No," said Tracey, "they're still making me play with the scrub."

"Why?" demanded his mother, raising her shrill voice. "You told me two weeks ago that the coach
was going to promote you. What happened, will you tell me?"

"They're not giving Tracey a fair show, Mrs. Campbell," declared Bassett. "The coach has a
few favorites and he can't see anything that any one else does."

Mrs. Campbell let her fork fall into her plate with a clatter. "I'm going to see Doctor Wells
about it!" she declared. "Such a condition is perfectly shameful! Why, it's--it's----"

"Now, mother, don't do anything like that," warned Tracey. "You'd only spoil what chances I've
got."

"Well, if they can't treat you fairly, I'd rather have you leave the school. Your father will
have something to say about this when he comes home. I don't doubt that he'll go right up there
and make them stand around a bit."

"By the time he gets home I'll be on the team," said Tracey.

In the afternoon Campbell and his satellite rode out into the country without the chauffeur
and Tracey took occasion to race any automobile that would accept an obvious challenge. It
was his particular delight to drive alongside a car of one of the cheaper makes and to pretend
that he was doing his utmost to pass and in that way to lure the small-car owner into competition.
Sometimes he succeeded and after he had made his victim believe that the big car was about
to be vanquished he would step hard on the accelerator and leave the scene of competition in
a cloud of dust. On such occasions Bassett felt called upon to turn and thumb his nose at the
crestfallen driver.

At dusk the pair came back to Greensboro for refreshment and Campbell declared that he would
take Bassett to a "regular place."

Greensboro was a bustling town in which there were department stores, theaters and restaurants.
The stores and theaters were closed, but the restaurants were open, though Sunday business
was dull. Campbell drove the big car down a side street and stopped in front of a building
that was decorated with an Oriental sign announcing to the world that this was the Eating Palace
of Chuan Kai. "Here's where I feed you the dinner I owe you," he said.

Tracey seemed to be well known to the Oriental managers of the restaurant. Chuan Kai himself,
a yellow Chinaman in American clothes, greeted him in with a smile that showed his tusks; he
directed the two to a table set in a little booth that was decorated with panels showing dragons
and temples. Here Tracey and Bassett lolled back at ease, ate chow mein and chop suey with
mushrooms, drank tea from small cups without handles and smoked till the air of the little
booth was blue.

Chuan Kai stole softly in and out and occasionally glanced with satisfaction at the two students.
They were spending money freely and the wily old Oriental knew that young Campbell would drop
a fat tip into his yellow palm when it so pleased him to leave the restaurant. Silently the
Chinese waiters in their slippers and loose trousers slipped in and out of the mysterious regions
where the strange food was prepared. Tracey, displaying nonchalance for Bassett's benefit,
declared that old Chuan Kai kept "a dozen Chinks on the job", and that they all slept in rooms
directly above the restaurant. The persons who sat at the inlaid tables and leaned heavily
on their elbows as they scanned the much-fingered menus were a nondescript lot--some the riff-raff
of the town who found it cheaper to eat at Kai's than to eat elsewhere, others, more respectable
in appearance, who doubtless had been drawn to the place by curiosity.

"Do you really want to give him a good jolt?" said Bassett to Campbell.

"I told you I did."

"Then why not try my plan? I know it will work."

Bassett leaned forward and talked in low tones as if fearing to be overheard, but there was
no danger of that, for the other persons in the restaurant were too much interested in their
own affairs to eavesdrop on two young fellows chatting in a booth.

At eight o'clock Campbell and Bassett sauntered out and Chuan Kai received his fat tip. The
big car rolled out to the "mansion" on the hillock and, when the chauffeur had been found,
sped to Ridgley School. Five minutes before nine it discharged its burden at the doors of Gannett
Hall.

During the week that followed there was a frenzy of football talk in every Ridgley dormitory.
At chapel on Tuesday morning Doctor Wells granted Neil Durant's request to speak to the school.
The football captain mounted the platform a little nervously, but he made a straightforward
speech in which he appealed for more candidates for the scrub. "There are a good many likely-looking
fellows in this school who have never tried for the football team," he said. "It's late in
the season, but there's a chance for them now on the scrub and, if they show any real ability,
an opportunity with the team. We've got to do our best to beat Jefferson this year and we can't
afford to overlook good material even now, so if you want to show your school spirit come down
to the field this afternoon."

The result of the speech and of numerous personal appeals was that a dozen new players appeared
with the scrub that afternoon; they were not a remarkable addition in respect to quality, however,
and after a couple of days of looking them over Coach Murray remarked to Neil Durant that he
was afraid that none of them would "set the world on fire."

Those were days of feverish activity on the football field; the coach drove the members of
the first team for all they were worth and when he thought they were in danger of being overworked
from too much scrimmaging he called them together in the locker building and gave them blackboard
talks. In the middle of the week he advanced Tracey Campbell and Fred Harper to the first squad;
he then began to test some new and intricate formations.

Among the candidates who had responded to Neil Durant's appeal had been Snubby Turner. Snubby
succeeded Fred Harper as quarter-back of the scrub and felt an immense elation which he intimated
to Teeny-bits one afternoon on the way back to the campus.

"Keep it up, Snubby," said Teeny-bits. "You're putting life into the scrub."

"If I'll come up to your room to-night, will you give me a few pointers about running with
the ball?" asked Snubby as the two approached the Gannett Hall steps.

"Come up right after supper and we'll talk for half an hour; then I'll have to study," said
Teeny-bits.

Snubby Turner came--but not to talk about football. He closed the door softly behind him and
looked at his friend with such a strange expression on his freckled face that Teeny-bits said:

"What in the name of mud is the matter, Snubby?"

"Do you suppose there's any one in this school mean enough to steal?" asked Turner. "When I
went down to football practice to-day I left my gold watch and a purse with twelve dollars
in it in the top drawer of my chiffonier. They're both gone!"

"Are you sure?" asked Teeny-bits.

"Yes, I am," declared Snubby. "Absolutely sure."

CHAPTER V

TEENY-BITS' CHANCE

Snubby Turner was not the only member of Ridgley School who lost property during the days that
preceded the game with Jefferson. His gold watch and the twelve dollars that had mysteriously
disappeared from his chiffonier were the first to vanish, but they were quickly followed by
other bits of jewelry and money--not only from the Ridgleyites in Gannett Hall but also from
those in other dormitories.

Ned Stillson, over in Ames Hall, lost six dollars and a small gold-handled penknife that a
maiden aunt had given him; Fred Harper reported the disappearance of a silver trophy of which
he was inordinately proud,--a graceful little model of a sailing boat which he and his brother
had won during a season of boat racing with their twenty-footer. The actual value of the trophy,
aside from its sentimental value, was said to be thirty-six dollars.

In the case of Harper's loss there was an additional interest because of the fact that Fred
nearly succeeded--unwittingly--in discovering the identity of the thief. His room was on the
first floor of Gannett Hall, and he remembered that on the Wednesday night when the theft occurred
he had left the window wide open at the time he went over to Lincoln Hall for supper. He had
gone from the table early and on arriving at the dormitory had immediately entered his room.
As he opened the door he saw a dark form outlined in the window and it occurred to him that
perhaps one of his schoolmates was attempting to play a practical joke upon him.

"What's the idea?" he had said. "Why don't you come in the front door like a human being?"

He had expected an answer in harmony with his question, but to his surprise the person in the
window had immediately scrambled out, jumped down five feet to the ground and had lost no time
in running out of sight around the corner of the building. Fred Harper had peered out of the
window, still thinking that he had been the victim of a prank, and had not noticed the loss
of his silver sailing trophy until he had turned on the electric lights and had seen that the
place where it stood on the mantelpiece was vacant. He had then dashed out of the dormitory
in the hope of intercepting the fugitive as he crossed the campus, but no one was in sight
except his schoolmates returning from Lincoln Hall. To these he reported his loss, and a dozen
of the Ridgleyites made a hurried search of the campus; they investigated all the shaded corners
and unlighted doorways but found nothing that in any way offered a clew to the identity of
the mysterious thief.

Within a week a dozen other thefts had been reported, and no little talk went the rounds of
the school. Poor Jerry, the grizzled old-timer, who for years had been general helper to Slocum,
the head janitor, was an object of suspicion in the eyes of some of the newcomers at Ridgley.
There was no doubt about it, Jerry did have a most fearsome cast of features. Mr. Stevens,
the English master, once remarked that he looked like an "amiable murderer." It was an apt
description. Jerry had an expansive smile, but it was bestowed only upon those Ridgleyites--masters
and pupils--who, for some subtle reason, loomed high in his esteem. All others he glowered
upon with an expression ferocious and uncompromising. It was said that Doctor Wells was head
of the school six months before he gained the reward of the smile that Jerry bestowed on the
elect. But Jerry's heart was in the right place, and the older members of Ridgley School laughed
to scorn the suggestion that he had any connection with the thefts.

"I'd as soon suspect my own father as Jerry!" said Snubby Turner, "but that gives me an idea."

What the idea was he revealed to no one except Jerry himself. For some reason Jerry had taken
a great liking to the genial Snubby, and when he received a call from that young man down in
his basement room, his seamed features took on an expression that might have caused Mr. Stevens
to add the adjectives happy and harmless to the "amiable murderer."

"I have an idea, Jerry," said Snubby. "You know some one's been getting away with a lot of
valuable truck from the fellows' rooms. It would be an awfully clever stunt to catch him. Why
don't you snoop around and find out who it is?"

"There's ijeers and ijeers," said Jerry. "I got my ijeers too. I ain't got no need to snoop
around. I got eyes an' ears as are uncommon good, even though I been usin' the same ones for
nigh on to seventy year. I got my own ijeers as to who's sneak-thieving this school and bime-by
somebody's goin' to get ketched."

"What are your ideas?" asked Snubby. "Do you know who's doing it?"

But old Jerry had no further enlightenment for his friend, even when Snubby pressed him further.
"I got eyes an' ears," said the old man, "an' I got my ijeers too."

Doctor Wells referred to the mystery indirectly one morning at chapel. "How foolish it is for
any of us to believe that we can commit a wrong and escape the penalty merely because no one
sees us," he said. "Every evil deed leaves its heaviest mark not on the victim of it but on
the misguided person who performs it. Once in a while something happens at our school that
proves anew that old, old truth."

There was absolute silence in the hall; every one knew to what the head was referring.

But other incidents of more stirring nature were under way at Ridgley School. As the impending
struggle for football honors with Jefferson drew nearer, each day seemed to be more strongly
charged with suspense and excitement until the very air that wafted itself among the maples
and elms, which were now dropping their red and yellow leaves on the campus, seemed electric
with possibilities both glorious and disastrous.

Since the game with Wilton, Teeny-bits had practiced regularly with the first squad and more
than once had demonstrated that his ability to run with the ball was above the average. White,
whose place he had taken in the Wilton game, recovered from his slightly sprained ankle, however,
and resumed his old position as left half-back. Teeny-bits continued to be a substitute.

Tracey Campbell, who likewise had been promoted to the first team, seemed to have regained
the attention of Coach Murray. On the Saturday that followed the tie game with Wilton, Ridgley
journeyed to Springfield to play Prescott Academy. Ridgley won the game by the score of 17
to 0, but more than once had to fight to keep the light but active Prescott team from scoring.
Both Teeny-bits and Campbell played through the whole fourth quarter and, to an impartial observer,
might have seemed to display a nearly equal ability. Five minutes before the end of the game,
however, Teeny-bits brought the spectators to their feet by catching a punt and dodging through
half the Prescott team for a gain of fifty-five yards before the home quarter-back forced him
over the side line. The spectacular thing about the run was that Teeny-bits somehow wriggled
and squirmed out of the grasp of four Prescott players who successively had at least a fair
opportunity to tackle him. The play did not result in a touchdown, for Prescott recovered the
ball on an attempted forward pass and the game soon came to an end.

Coach Murray seemed to be pretty well satisfied with the playing of the Ridgley team. "What
I liked best," he said on the way back, "was that you played an intelligent game--you took
advantage of your opportunities--but let me add in a hurry that you will have to play better
and harder football than you've played yet when you meet Jefferson."

On the same Saturday, Jefferson performed in a manner that brought no encouragement to Ridgley.
With Norris, the mighty full-back, leading the team, Jefferson had "snowed under and buried",
as one newspaper put it, the lighter Dale School eleven, which previously had won some little
attention by its development of the open game, especially forward passing. Against Jefferson,
Dale seemed helpless. She was stopped before she could get started; her players kept possession
of the ball only for brief moments, and as soon as it came again into the hands of the bigger
team another procession toward a touchdown started. The final score was 69-0, nine touchdowns
and three drop kicks.

Of the nine touchdowns, Norris had made six, which was said to establish a record for school
games in the state. Three goals were missed.

At Ridgley the name of Norris became a thing of dread; the leader of the Jefferson team had
assumed the proportions of a Goliath.

"I'll bet Neil Durant can stop him," Fred Harper loyally declared to a group on the steps of
Gannett Hall. But there was no great assurance in his voice and the answer that came back revealed
the doubt that was in every one's mind.

"He can if any one can."

Teeny-bits was walking up from the locker building with Neil Durant after practice when the
captain surprised him by saying:

"I used to know Norris; we used to go to a day school in Washington together."

"You did!" exclaimed Teeny-bits. "What was he like?"

"It was four or five years ago and we were young kids, but I remember that Norris was gritty
as the dickens; he used to play quarter-back then; of course he's developed a lot since those
days."

Somehow that little incident seemed to change Teeny-bits' state of mind toward Norris; he had
been unconsciously thinking of him as scarcely a human being, rather as a super-athlete who
was virtually invincible. He began to develop a great desire to play against him, and then
suddenly something happened that seemed to make what had been a remote possibility almost a
certainty.

Ten days before the big game, during a scrimmage in front of the scrub's goal line, White's
weak ankle gave way sharply beneath him with the result that the bone was cracked and White
was out of the game for the season. It was a heavy blow to the team; White had never been a
spectacular player, but by hard work he had earned the reputation of being the "Old Reliable"
of the team. Neil Durant and Ned Stillson were better at running with the ball and played perhaps
more brilliantly, but White was steady and sure. His team-mates called him "a bear at secondary
defense." He had an uncanny way of guessing where a play was coming through, and he made it
his duty to plant himself in front of it,--and to stop it. If he had had more of leadership
in his personality, he might have made as good a captain as Neil Durant made.

Coach Murray and Neil helped him off the field, plainly showing their disappointment and sympathy.

"Two of you fellows help White over to the locker building and 'phone for Doctor Peters to
come down with his car," said the coach, addressing a group of substitutes at the side lines.

Teeny-bits jumped forward, but the coach said:

"Let some one else do that, Teeny-bits. I want you out on the field."

Teeny-bits walked back to the scrimmage line with the captain and the coach. A moment ago he
had been a substitute; now suddenly he had become a regular. The other members of the team
had a word of encouragement for him, but it was impossible for them to hide completely their
belief that a disaster had come upon the eleven. Teeny-bits was a good substitute, they all
acknowledged, but as a regular against such a team as Jefferson, well, he was too light in
spite of his quickness and grit.

After a quarter of an hour of practice, Coach Murray sent Teeny-bits back to the side lines
and called Tracey Campbell out. A few minutes later he recalled Teeny-bits and put the team
through a long signal drill in which the new plays that he had been developing were practiced
again and again. Those two maneuvers on the part of the coach indicated plainly enough that
he had chosen Teeny-bits as regular left half-back in the place of White and that he had selected
Tracey Campbell as first substitute.

At the end of practice Mr. Murray asked Neil and Teeny-bits to stay on the field for a few minutes.

"Three or four weeks ago, Teeny-bits," said the coach, "I looked upon you as an interesting
possibility for the team next year. Now you've landed on the eleven, and I'm sure you can make
good. You're quick and you've got a good eye for plays, but I want you to make up your mind
that you are going to show us something that you never thought you had in you. I have an idea
for a surprise play that I'm going to build around you. It may prove to be pretty important
in the game with Jefferson. I want you to work on change of pace and shifting direction. Neil
has both better than you have, and we'll depend on him and Ned to carry the ball a good part
of the time; then if we can trust you to do the rest, things will look hopeful as far as our
offense goes."

For half an hour Neil went through a practice with Teeny-bits that was intended to give the
new member of the team greater flexibility as a runner with the ball.

"You see," said Coach Murray, "it's like this: if a fellow runs straight ahead with the ball
he makes a clear target for the tackler--in other words he's an 'easy mark.' But if he's shifty
and is able to fool the enemy by putting on a little extra steam at just the right moment or
by slowing down in such a way that the tackler doesn't know what to expect, he has a tremendous
advantage.

"Now suppose, for example, that the opposing end comes in swiftly toward you when you have
started for all you're worth around his territory. If you have something in reserve which you
can turn on just at the instant he's reaching for you and if you rely furthermore on a good
straight arm to take care of him when he gets too close, the chances are that you'll go through
to open ground. When I was in college I remember two fellows who came out for the team. One
was the 'varsity sprinter and could cover a hundred yards in ten flat. The other was a fellow
of about the same build who didn't have as much speed--I think the best he could do in the
century dash was eleven or eleven and a half--yet that first man failed to make the team and
the other fellow, who would have been left far behind in a sprint, was a regular on the eleven
for three years and could always be relied upon to do his share in carrying the ball. He had
a way of running straight at a tackler and then shifting direction in such a manner that you
couldn't seem to bring him down. And then, of course, he was clever in using the straight arm
and he always ran with high knee-action. When you tackled him it felt just as if you were tackling
a man with a dozen legs, all of which were going up and down like the piston rod on a steam engine.

"Now you get down there in the middle of the field, Teeny-bits, and try to pass Neil and me.
See what you can do to keep us guessing and when you use your straight arm remember to throw
your hips; don't stand up stiff like a wooden Indian target."

Teeny-bits followed directions and again and again came down upon the coach and the captain,
remembering their instructions to shift, to use his straight arm, to dodge, to change his pace
and to exercise every stratagem that differentiates the skilful back-field runner from the
novice. He felt that he was learning real football and took each bit of advice that was offered
with an intense concentration.

"I wish you could have seen some movie pictures of one of the college games that I saw last
year," said Coach Murray. "It showed better than any talk could show just what I mean by change
of pace. The back that made the greatest gains of any man on the field had an uncanny way of
eluding tacklers. The films showed how he did it. Again and again he slowed down just before
the opposing tackle reached him--when they were running the film slowly it looked almost as
if he stopped--and then, when the tackler leaped forward to bring him down, that shifty runner
would slip around like a fox leaping away from a dog, and on he would go, leaving the tackler
sprawling on the ground. Now try it again!"

Teeny-bits put his whole soul into this practice and at the end of the half-hour felt that
he was making real headway.

"You're getting it great," said Neil Durant, as they walked back to the campus together. "The
coach is wonderful on helping a fellow; and you can always be sure that what he says is exactly
right. When he was in college he made the All-American team two years in succession."

The game at the end of the week--the next to the last of the season--was played in the midst
of a steady drizzle on a muddy field. Dale School, which had fallen such an easy victim to
Jefferson, visited Ridgley and went home defeated, 21-7. Coach Murray instructed the quarter-back
to use only straight plays--to reveal none of the strategy that he had been drilling into the
team during the past few weeks. Ridgley made three touchdowns in the first two quarters, one
each by Neil Durant, Ned Stillson and Teeny-bits. At the beginning of the third quarter Mr.
Murray sent in one substitute after another until finally big Tom Curwood and Teeny-bits were
the only regulars left. Tracey Campbell then took Teeny-bits' place.

With an entire team of substitutes on the field Ridgley was at first able to hold her own against
Dale, but presently the visiting team seemed to see its opportunity and by persistent rushing
crossed the Ridgley goal line. Had it not been for the strong playing of Tracey Campbell, the
Dale team might have scored at least another goal; Campbell was the main strength of the substitutes
and again and again stopped the rushes of the Dale regulars. There was no question about Campbell's
right to the place of first substitute back.

After the game, Coach Murray announced the probable line-up of the team for the Jefferson contest.
There were no surprises. Neil Durant, Ned Stillson and Teeny-bits were to play in the back-field
with Dean, the regular quarter-back.

That week-end Tracey Campbell went home to the "mansion" on the hillock. After the game with
Dale he approached Neil Durant and invited the captain to be his guest. He did not say that
he was acting under orders from his father. The elder Campbell was ambitious for his son to
be prominent, as befitted the scion of a man who had made a million. He had written a letter
to Tracey that week in which he had devoted two pages to advice in the matter of "getting ahead."
One of his bits of instruction ran as follows:

     "There's one lesson you've got to learn right now--the lesson of
     politics. Every big man knows how to use his friends to help him
     along. Don't let the other fellow beat you out by getting the
     inside course. Get the jump on him. Now this football business is
     just like any other business--you've got to use friends. I want you
     to ask that Durant fellow home over the week-end. He must have
     influence with the coach. Bring some others too, if you want to."

Campbell put his invitation as casually as he could. "The old man wants me to bring some one
home with me this week-end," he said. "Don't you want to come? Thought we could go to a show
in Greensboro and to-morrow we'll tour around in the car."

Durant looked at Campbell keenly, but he showed neither surprise nor indifference. "It's mighty
good of you to ask me," said the captain, "but I can't make it; I've got to study to-night,
and to-morrow I think I'd better stay at the school. Much obliged, though!"

"Sorry. Some other time will be just as good."

Campbell spoke in an off-hand manner, but his words did not express the thoughts in his mind.

It was the faithful Bassett who finally went home with Campbell and accompanied him to the
theater in Greensboro. At dinner Bassett put in a few words of praise for Tracey and phrased
them in such a way that without telling any actual falsehoods he gave the impression that the
game with Dale had been an important one and that Tracey had been chiefly responsible for saving
Ridgley from defeat.

Tracey took the compliments gracefully and even denied that he had done quite as much as Bassett
asserted.

"You mustn't be too modest, Tracey," declared Mrs. Campbell in her shrill voice. "Take the
credit that's due you. I suppose this means you've won the letter that you talk so much about."

"You know about as much football as a porcupine, Ma!" exclaimed Tracey. "A fellow has to play
in the Jefferson game to get his R."

"Well I'm glad you've proved that you've got the goods," declared Campbell, senior. "If you
do as well in the big game I might be favorable toward giving you that racy runabout you've
been nagging me to buy you."

CHAPTER VI

DISCOVERIES

That third week in November at Ridgley School was like the home stretch in a mile race. The
finish was in sight and the victory could be lost or won by what was about to take place. The
Ridgley team was trailing--every one admitted that--but by a magnificent burst of speed it
might yet come abreast of its rival--and might even snatch the victory. Nothing is impossible;
we can do it if we have the spirit: that was the word on every one's lips--spirit not alone
in the team but in the heart of every son of Ridgley,--such a spirit through the whole school
that those eleven fellows in whom rested the entire hope of several hundred should go on the
field with the conviction that however well the Jefferson team played, the Ridgley team would
play better.

There were mass meetings at which Coach Murray and Neil Durant and prominent members of the
team spoke. All of them made the point that victory depended on the spirit of the whole school
as well as on the team. At the meeting on Monday night in Lincoln Hall after Neil Durant had
spoken, some one in the crowd yelled, "We want Teeny-bits," and the cry was instantly taken
up by others until in the space of a few seconds the whole hall was resounding to the concerted
clamor for the smallest and the newest member of the eleven.

There was some little delay, for Teeny-bits, surprised and dismayed, had settled himself lower
in his seat, hoping thereby to escape detection until a demand had started for some other member
of the team. But the Ridgleyites who were sitting beside him yelled, "Here he is!" and Neil
Durant, perceiving him at last, leaped down from the platform and laid hold on him with vigorous
hands. In a second or two Teeny-bits was standing up there facing the school with such a shout
of greeting ringing in his ears that his head swam a little. There was no room for the slightest
doubt that the sons of Ridgley liked this quiet, unassuming, new member of the school and that
they admired his manner of saying little but doing much. The school would have excused Teeny-bits
if he had stammered a bit and sat down to cover his embarrassment, but there was no need for
excuses of any sort. Teeny-bits suddenly found that he had something to say and he said it
in a manner that brought the already enthusiastic crowd to its feet.

"I want to tell you," he said, "that I'm glad Jefferson has such a good team; every one says
it's the best their school has ever produced. That's something worthy to strive for--to beat
their best ever--and I know that every member of our team has his mind and heart and soul made
up to meet Jefferson more than halfway and to fight so hard for Ridgley that when the game
is over there'll be shouting and bonfires on our hill."

That was all Teeny-bits said but he spoke with a manner that almost brought tears to the eyes
of those loyal sons of Ridgley whose faces were turned up toward him where he stood in the
bright lights of the platform. A hoarse shout of confidence and satisfaction shook the hall.

Instead of jumping down and returning to his seat, Teeny-bits left the platform by the back
way and hurried out of the building by the rear door. He wanted to be alone just then. The
November night air was cool on his flushed face and he strode swiftly toward his room, thinking
of all the things that had happened to him in the few short weeks since he had come to Ridgley
and of all the friends he had made. Never had he seen the campus so deserted; every one was
at the mass meeting, it seemed. There were lights only in the entries of the dormitories. He
took a short cut across the tennis courts and approached Gannett Hall from the rear.

When the grayish-white bulk of the building was only twenty-five yards away, Teeny-bits heard
a sudden sound that caused him to gaze upward. What he saw instantly dispelled from his mind
the pleasant thoughts in which he had been absorbed. A window in the third story was open;
stretching downward from it was one of the fire-escape ropes with which each room was equipped.
Some one was letting himself downward by sitting in the patent sling and allowing the rope
to slide slowly through his hands. Teeny-bits stepped behind one of the beech trees that grew
close to the building. While he watched, the person on the rope came down even with the second
story. There he paused, resting his feet on the ledge of a window. In a moment he had raised
the sash and had climbed inside.

Teeny-bits remained behind the tree, peering upward and wondering if he had hit upon the solution
of the mystery of the petty thefts. Inside the room on the second floor a dim light shone for
a moment and then went out; the thief was using a flashlamp. Teeny-bits' first thought was
to notify some one in authority, but he quickly made up his mind that he would do better to
observe developments and to stay on watch until the thief should come out.

Close to the wall of the building grew some shrubs which seemed to offer a better vantage point
from which to watch. Teeny-bits stepped quickly among them and crouched down so that, as seen
from above, the dark shadow of his body would seem to be part of the shrubbery. Looking upward
he could see any object on the side of the building outlined clearly against the starlit sky.
Two or three minutes after he reached this new place of concealment a foot was thrust out of
the second story window above him; some one climbed out and after closing the window began
to clamber swiftly upward, using his hands on the rope and his feet against the wall.

Teeny-bits at once recognized the person who was performing this suspicious-appearing bit of
acrobatics but he was astounded by his discovery. The person who was fast making his way upward,
who even now had reached the third story and was climbing into the open window, was none other
than Snubby Turner, the genial and innocent-appearing quarter-back of the scrub team. In the
first place it was almost unbelievable that Snubby with his tremendous interest in the approaching
football game should be absent from the mass meeting; in the second place it seemed even more
incredible to Teeny-bits that this friend of his should be guilty of stealing the property
of his schoolmates.

The newcomer at Ridgley remained standing in the bushes as if frozen to the spot. He was revolving
in his mind many things: Snubby's seemingly frank and happy manner, the fact that it was he
who had first reported a loss, his interest in the subsequent thefts. It seemed impossible;
and yet here was indisputable evidence that Snubby had chosen a moment when the dormitory was
deserted to break into one of the rooms.

Whose room was it, anyway? Teeny-bits, still looking upward, suddenly realized that the room
into which Snubby had broken was Tracey Campbell's; confusing thoughts were still sweeping
through his mind when he became aware that some one who was stepping swiftly along the walk
that passed close behind the hall was almost upon him. Teeny-bits never knew just why he followed
the sudden impulse that came over him. His first thought was that he did not want any one to
see him standing there in the shrubbery apparently without reason; he started to crouch, but
his quick movement caught the eye of the person who was passing. The footfalls came to a sudden
pause, and a voice, which Teeny-bits recognized as that of Mr. Stevens, the English master,
called out:

"Who's that?"

With a sinking sensation in the pit of his stomach, Teeny-bits stepped out of the bushes and said:

"It's Findley Holbrook--" and then, as if for good measure, he added his nickname--"Teeny-bits."

"What's up?" asked Mr. Stevens.

The question was put pleasantly, but Teeny-bits knew that behind it there must be wonder and
suspicion--yes, surely suspicion--for it was not an ordinary circumstance to find a member
of the school concealing himself close to the rear windows of one of the dormitories when all
the rest of the school was absent at a mass meeting. For the life of him Teeny-bits could think
of nothing to say--he had made up his mind instantly not to tell what he had seen--and there
did not seem to be anything else left. For seconds that seemed like hours he did not answer
Mr. Stevens' question and then he managed to get a few words across his benumbed lips.

"It's nothing," he said. "I just--I'm--I was coming back from the mass meeting."

Mr. Stevens looked at him keenly and laid a hand on his shoulder. "What's the matter, Teeny-bits?"
he asked, and the newcomer at Ridgley knew from the very fact that the master addressed him
by his nickname that he expected a straightforward answer.

Teeny-bits looked at Mr. Stevens in dumb misery and said nothing.

"Can I help you?" asked Mr. Stevens.

"No," said Teeny-bits. "Thanks, but I'm just going up to my room; that's all."

They walked round to the front of the hall together; Mr. Stevens said nothing more, and Teeny-bits
ran up to his room and sat down to think. A few minutes before the impending struggle with
Jefferson had filled his mind so completely that there seemed to be room for nothing else;
now suddenly this other thing had come upon him and in an instant had engulfed his mind. Circumstances
had involved him in a situation from which he would have given a year of his life to escape.
He suddenly realized that he valued his good name above everything else.

Doctor Wells had been away from Ridgley over the week-end, to make an address in Philadelphia.
He came back to the school Monday afternoon and did not get an opportunity to attend to his
mail until evening. One letter that came to him contained a brief but surprising message. He
read it once and then again, and forgot the rest of his mail. He got up from his desk chair
and walking over to the window looked out into the night. Voices came to him faintly,--the
eager, confident, carefree voices of youth. He knew that the boys were returning from the mass
meeting. He turned away from the window, drew down the shade and read again the brief message.

It never took Doctor Wells long to make a decision; the course of action he determined on now
he quickly put into execution. He reached for the telephone and in a moment was talking with
Mr. Stevens, whose room was situated in Gannett Hall.

"Mr. Stevens," he said, "I want you to go up to Holbrook's room and ask him to come over here
immediately. I'd like to have you stay with him until he starts."

Teeny-bits was not greatly surprised when Mr. Stevens came into his room a quarter of an hour
after he had said good night to him. When any one was in trouble Mr. Stevens had a way of dropping
round to see how he could help. Teeny-bits was surprised, however, when the English master
delivered Doctor Wells' message. The first thought that came into his mind was that Mr. Stevens
had reported what he had seen and that Doctor Wells was calling him to his office to request
an explanation. Mr. Stevens may have read his thought for he looked at Teeny-bits rather searchingly
and said:

"I don't know why Doctor Wells wants to see you; I haven't talked with him since he returned
except to answer the request that has just been made. If you need me in any way, let me know."

That was the second time the English master had offered himself.

"I guess there isn't anything you can do," said Teeny-bits as he picked up his hat and started
out of the room. "I'll run over to the office and see what Doctor Wells wants."

Teeny-bits' heart was pounding a little as he mounted the granite steps of "The White House",
as every one called Doctor Wells' home. It was always an impressive thing to make a call on
Doctor Wells--and one calculated to make the blood run a little faster, whatever the errand.
There was something about this summons, moreover, that gave it an unusual quality, and to Teeny-bits,
who had passed through two experiences that evening, it seemed to be a climax that held for
him vague and perhaps unpleasant possibilities. He rang the bell and was ushered immediately
into Doctor Wells' study where the soft lamplight, the paintings on the walls and the garnet-colored
rugs, which harmonized with the mahogany furniture, gave an atmosphere of dignity and refinement.
One always carried himself with a certain feeling of awe--at least every member of the school
did--in Doctor Wells' office. But there was no unpleasant formality in Doctor Wells' manner.
He shook hands with Teeny-bits cordially, asked him to sit down and came to the point immediately.

"I received a letter in the mail to-day which has something to do with you, Holbrook. I thought
you'd better see it immediately. It isn't a pleasant subject and I want you to tell me frankly
what you know about it."

He handed over a sheet of paper on which were three or four lines of typewritten words. They
were simple enough in their meaning, but Teeny-bits had to read them twice before he completely
grasped their import. There were two sentences:

     Holbrook has the things that were stolen from the dormitories. He
     keeps them hidden under the floor in his closet.

Teeny-bits' face became red with anger and mortification; he looked Doctor Wells squarely in
the eyes and said:

"Whoever sent you this, sir, wrote a lie! He didn't dare to sign his name!"

Doctor Wells never took his eyes from Teeny-bits' face, but the expression in them underwent
a slight change; it was as if he had been looking for something that he greatly wanted to see--and
suddenly had seen it.

"I believe in you, Holbrook," he said. "And I want you to know that I sympathize with you as
I would with any one else against whose honesty a cowardly assault has been made. One has to
defend himself sturdily against such underhand attacks. Have you any enemies who might try
to injure you in this way?"

"I don't know; I shouldn't think that any one in this school would be mean enough to do it.
Doctor Wells, I want you to come over to my room now, and let me prove that it's a lie."

"I'll be glad to," said the Head, "but we might as well wait a few minutes until the lights-out
bell rings. We don't need to advertise our business to any of the fellows in Gannett Hall."

For fifteen minutes Teeny-bits sat in the study with Doctor Wells; he never remembered in detail
what they talked about, but he had a vague memory that it concerned football and the game with
Jefferson.

Gannett Hall was dark and quiet when the Head and the newcomer to the school stole softly up
the stairs and stopped at Number 34 on the third floor. Teeny-bits unlocked the door, reached
in to switch on the electric lights and stood aside to let Doctor Wells enter first. He followed
and led the way directly to the closet where he kept his clothes. Swinging open the door he
looked down.

At first glance it seemed that the boards were not in any way disturbed from their normal appearance,
and Teeny-bits was about to speak when his eyes fell on a groove at the point where the ends
of two boards came together. He had not for an instant supposed that he and Doctor Wells would
discover anything in the closet, but now suddenly a great fear came over him.

"There's a mark on this board," he said, getting down closer, "and the nails have been pulled out."

A minute or two later Teeny-bits and Doctor Wells had pried up the loose boards with a heavy
paper-knife from Teeny-bits' table and were gazing down at a small pile of loot which consisted
of the objects that various members of the school had reported as lost. It included Fred Harper's
silver sailing trophy, Ned Stillson's gold knife, Snubby Turner's watch and ten or a dozen
other trinkets. Teeny-bits felt stunned. Doctor Wells had picked out the articles one after
another before Teeny-bits found his voice. Then he said:

"I don't know what you think, Doctor Wells, but the honest truth is that I didn't know a thing
about this. I can't even guess--"

He could say no more; his voice broke a little and he felt as if he were half a dozen years
younger and about to cry in little-boy manner.

"Teeny-bits," said Doctor Wells--it was the second time that night that Findley Holbrook had
been thus addressed by a person in authority at Ridgley--"I've said once that I believe in
you; this doesn't shake my confidence in your honesty. I'll take charge of these things; I
think you'd better go to bed now and let me see what I can do to solve the problem. I'll borrow
this empty laundry bag."

After Doctor Wells had gone, Teeny-bits undressed and got into bed, but for hours he did not
fall asleep. He kept thinking of Snubby Turner climbing down the fire escape. Could it be possible
that the genial Snubby was guilty of stealing from his friends, of professing to have lost
property himself and finally of attempting to throw the blame on another? It seemed unbelievable.
But why had Snubby stayed away from the mass meeting except to break into the rooms of his
classmates? It was all too confusing. Teeny-bits could evolve no satisfactory explanation.
At two or three in the morning he fell into a troubled sleep during which he dreamed that he
was playing in the Jefferson game and that the stands were yelling in a tremendous chorus:

"He's a thief; he's a thief!"

CHAPTER VII

ON THE EVE OF THE STRUGGLE

On the morning after the discovery of the loot hidden under the floor of the closet at 34 Gannett
Hall Teeny-bits awoke with the feeling that he had been experiencing a nightmare in which disaster
and unhappiness had fastened a death-like clutch upon him. It scarcely seemed possible that
those events with which the evening had been crowded were real.

The speech at the mass meeting, the discovery of Snubby Turner sliding down the side of the
fire rope and breaking into Campbell's room, the incident with Mr. Stevens, the summons to
Doctor Wells' office, the visit to Gannett Hall and the astounding secret that revealed itself
when the boards of the closet were lifted,--all those events seemed like strange imaginings.
Teeny-bits jumped from bed and opened the door of the closet. The little marks that he and
Doctor Wells had made with the paper-knife were sufficient evidence to bring back the reality
of each incident and to plunge Teeny-bits into a gloomy perplexity from which not even the
crisp brightness of the November day or the prospect of the Jefferson game could divert his mind.

The worst of it was that there seemed to be nothing that he could do except await developments;
he thought of going to Snubby Turner and demanding an explanation of the part that Snubby had
played in breaking into Tracey Campbell's room, but he could not bring himself to make what
would be nothing less than a serious accusation of his friend. He determined to wait.

Throughout the day it seemed to Teeny-bits that he was leading two lives,--the one absorbed
in the personal problem that had been thrust upon him, the other concerned with the mechanical
performance of the various duties that came his way. He attended classes, ate his meals and
took part in the regular football practice, but his mind was elsewhere.

Coach Murray was the first to notice that everything was not quite right. When the practice
was two thirds over he spoke to Teeny-bits.

"Aren't you feeling fit?" he asked.

"I'm all right," replied the half-back.

"I'm afraid you've been working a little too hard," said the coach. "We'll call that enough
for you to-day."

Doctor Wells had a habit of conferring with Mr. Stevens in matters that concerned his personal
relationship with the members of the school. He had a great respect for the English master's
understanding of character. On Tuesday morning he summoned Mr. Stevens to his office and put
a blunt question.

"What do you think of Holbrook--Teeny-bits, as they call him?"

"Why, I've always liked him," said Mr. Stevens.

"Are you quite sure of him?"

For an instant Mr. Stevens did not answer, and then he said quickly: "Yes, I----, oh, I'm sure
he's all right. In fact, I've considered him as the same type--though, of course, with a different
background--as Neil Durant; and you know what I think of Neil."

If Doctor Wells had noticed the slight pause which preceded the English master's reply, he
gave no sign. "I agree with you," he declared. "But I want to tell you about a puzzling incident
that happened last night."

Briefly, but omitting no important detail, Doctor Wells told Mr. Stevens of the unsigned letter
that accused Teeny-bits, of his conference with the newcomer and of the visit to Gannett Hall.
When the Head described the discovery of the stolen property beneath the floor of Teeny-bits'
closet, the expression on Mr. Stevens' face changed.

"You actually found those things in his room!" exclaimed the English master. He was sitting
in the same chair in which Teeny-bits had sat just twelve hours before.

Doctor Wells, sitting opposite, smiled slightly at the surprise in Mr. Stevens' voice; he had
heard just such a quality of surprise mingled with indignation in the voice of Teeny-bits.

"It astonishes you as much as it did me," said the Head. "What do you think of it?"

Mr. Stevens sat and looked into the fire and did not answer the question. The room became so
quiet that the clock on the mantel seemed to raise its voice,--as if suddenly it had become
animate and wished to make itself heard. It ticked out a full minute and sixty seconds more
and then--as it were--became silent, for the voice of the English master drowned it out.

"That put a real problem up to me," he said. "I didn't know at first what to do, but I think
I see clearly now. Something happened last night--something I couldn't quite explain; I've
been puzzling over it. Unless I were sure--well sure that you know just what weight to give
to outward appearances, I shouldn't tell you this; everything considered, however, I think
you ought to know it. The incident happened last night only a few minutes before you asked
me to send Holbrook over to you."

While Doctor Wells listened with an intentness that was revealed by the lines of his contracted
brows, Mr. Stevens described how he had found Teeny-bits crouching in the shrubbery behind
Gannett Hall and mentioned the newcomer's confusion at being discovered.

"I've always believed that character inevitably expresses itself in a person's face," said
Doctor Wells, "and I have come gradually into the conviction that I can read faces. I thought
I had made no mistake in this case--and I think so still. But they say there are exceptions
to the general rule. I don't know--well, for the present, the only thing to do is to wait.
Time is a great revealer of secrets."

On Wednesday and Thursday the Ridgley football team went through light signal practice which
was intended, as Coach Murray said, to "oil the machinery" and "polish off the rough spots."
Thursday afternoon the whole school marched down to the field to watch the practice and to
test their cheering and their songs.

At dark when the team was in the locker building Coach Murray announced that there would be
no practice on Friday. "I want you to forget football from now until Saturday," he said. "Imagine
that no such game ever existed. To-morrow, go on a little walk somewhere or take it easy in
any way you like, but don't bother your brains with any football thinking."

On Friday afternoon Tracey Campbell, at the suggestion of Bassett, decided to "forget football"
by taking a little tour in his father's automobile. Tracey telephoned home, discovered that
the elder Campbell was out of town, and had little difficulty in persuading his mother to send
the chauffeur over to Ridgley with the car. Tracey suggested that he might take along one or
two members of the football team, but Bassett made a remark or two that caused the substitute
back to change his mind. After driving to the "mansion" and leaving the chauffeur, Tracey and
Bassett rode out into the country and came back by the way of Greensboro. Their conversation
had been none too pleasant, for there were certain things between them that furnished grounds
for differences of opinion. But Bassett was clever--more clever than most of the members of
Ridgley School believed him to be--and he had a way of putting his finger on weak spots and
causing irritation that resulted in action. As on two previous occasions, the pair stopped
at Chuan Kai's Oriental Eating Palace, and there Bassett gave voice to what he considered as
a finality.

"Well," he said, "if Teeny-bits weren't on hand for the game, of course you'd play in his place,
as you deserve to, and then you'd get your letter and the runabout."

"Well, he'll be there, so don't worry yourself about that," said Campbell. "He's on the inside
and nothing you can do--got a match? I'm going to smoke."

"Didn't you tell me one time that Chuan Kai had a regular den upstairs where no one ever went--except
the Chinks?"

"I guess so," said Tracey.

"The trouble with you," was Bassett's next remark, "is that you can't see a real chance when
it's right in front of your nose. Now listen, and I'll tell you something."

The result of the conversation that went on between Bassett and Campbell during the next quarter
of an hour was that Campbell finally got up from the table and said:

"We'll talk to Chuan Kai."

As an outcome of what passed between the two members of Ridgley School and Chuan Kai, an agreement
was made which involved the payment of a certain amount of money. Chuan Kai counted the bills
and slipped them out of sight within the folds of his loose-fitting coat. He had more than
one reason for undertaking to help these two young members of the white race; they had money
which moved from their pockets to his pockets and they had promised him more; the owner of
the building in which Chuan Kai had established the business of the Oriental Eating Palace
was Campbell, the leather dealer. Third reason, and greatest in the Chinese mind, was the fact
that years ago, but not so long but that the memory of it was as vivid as a lightning flash
on a black night, Campbell--who had not been above turning his hand to various undertakings
that, though murky of purpose, were productive in returns--had circumvented certain laws that
prevented a yellow man from gaining entrance to the land of the Americans. The father of this
youth held Chuan Kai in the hollow of his hand, and Chuan Kai knew that a few words spoken
to the enforcers-of-law would send him away from these shores, where living came so easily,
back to China where stalked a specter which he had reason to fear with the fear of one whose
heart trembles like the heart of a field mouse that hears the cry of the long-taloned owl.
Those reasons trooped through the Oriental's mind as his black eyes shifted from the face of
Campbell to the face of Bassett.

"You understand," said Bassett. "It's an initiation for one of our school societies and it
must be always a secret--never tell any one we had anything to do with it. You understand?"

Yes, Chuan Kai understood; he knew English and he knew well enough what societies were; this
he imagined was a "play" society, the kind with which young Americans amused themselves, quite
unlike some societies he knew about.

Chuan Kai called out suddenly two words that sounded to Bassett and Campbell like "Ka-wah changsee",
and within twenty seconds one of the Chinese waiters stood in the doorway with an expectant
look in his eyes. More words of Chinese like pebbles rattling over stones and falling into
water flowed from the singsong lips of Chuan Kai. The waiter went away and came back with a
broad-shouldered Chinaman whose sleeves were rolled up, revealing sinewy yellow muscles. Campbell
and Bassett guessed that he came from the kitchen where he had been cutting meat, for his hands
were red and the apron he wore was stained. Chuan Kai spoke to these two hench-men at some
length; they replied in guttural syllables that signified understanding.

A little after dark, on that same Friday evening, Teeny-bits came back from supper at Lincoln
Hall and went up to his room. He had taken a walk with Neil Durant and Ned Stillson and had
made up his mind that he would go to bed early and keep his thoughts away from the things that
were troubling him. He had started to undress and had removed his shirt and collar, when some
one shouted up from below:

"Oh, Teeny-bits, you're wanted on the telephone."

Teeny-bits pulled on a sweater and went downstairs. In answer to his inquiry he heard a voice--an
unnaturally gruff voice, he remembered afterwards--telling him startling news. His father,
old Daniel Holbrook, had been hurt--a train had struck him at the station--Teeny-bits was wanted
at home at once.

Waiting to hear no more, he hung up the receiver and without pausing to tell any one where
he was going, hurried out of Gannett Hall and ran across the campus toward the hill-road that
led down to the village of Hamilton a mile away. He had covered half the distance when he saw
an automobile just ahead of him standing beside the road. As he approached, he noticed that,
though the lights were out, the engine was running; he determined to explain the emergency
and ask for a ride to the village. He never made the request, however, for as he came abreast
of the car he heard a sharp whistle close beside him and was suddenly assailed by two dark
figures that sprang upon him and, almost before he could struggle, bore him to the ground.

Teeny-bits had been in many a rough-and-tumble wrestling match and was able to take care of
himself in competition with any ordinary opponent, even when weight was against him; he struggled
desperately, but within the space of a very few seconds he realized that he was helpless. At
the first onslaught something that felt like a voluminous cloth had been thrown over his head
and he found himself enveloped in its folds; he tried to cry out for help, but his voice was
muffled and ineffective. Though unable to see his assailants, he kicked and struck out with
desperation, but all to no avail. His feet were brought together and fastened with the same
material that covered his head and pinioned his arms to his body. In a moment he felt himself
raised from the ground and realized that he was being lifted into the automobile. Hands fumbled
at the cloth about his head, tightening the folds over his mouth and eyes, loosening the folds
over his nose so that, though he could neither see nor talk, he could breathe without difficulty.

The whole attack had been carried out swiftly, and it was so entirely different from anything
that Teeny-bits had experienced that he felt dazed and bewildered. The automobile was moving
rapidly now, as he could tell by its tremulous motion and its frequent lurches. No sound that
would aid him in identifying his assailants came to his ears, however, and he could only helplessly
await the next development. A cautious tightening of his muscles convinced him quickly that
it was of no use whatever to strain against his bonds. Whoever these men were who had bound
him in so strange a manner, they had done their work well. Minutes passed, and still the automobile
rolled on swiftly; whither it was carrying him--north or south or east or west--Teeny-bits
had no way of knowing. Finally it began to move more slowly and after a few moments vibrated
as if passing over cobble-stones.

Teeny-bits knew instantly when it came to a stop, for the vibrations ceased. Only a moment
passed before he felt himself lifted by two pairs of hands and a moment later realized by the
sound and the motion that he was being carried up a long flight of steps. He heard a door open
and shut and he sniffed a strange odor; food cooking and smoke, it seemed to suggest, but strange
food and strange smoke. Another flight of steps was mounted, another door was opened, and Teeny-bits
felt himself deposited upon something that seemed like a mattress. He tried to speak, to ask
where he was and what his captors intended, but only muffled mumblings came from his lips.
He heard the door close and knew that he was alone. A feeling of despair, the equal of which
he had never experienced, swept over him; he was in the power of nameless enemies whose purposes
were unknown and perhaps sinister.

For a long while Teeny-bits lay in dumb misery, while one dismal thought after another marched
through his mind. On the eve of the big game--the game in which for long weeks his hopes had
been fastened, first with interest and then with an almost feverish anticipation--he had been
mysteriously spirited away. Now he would not even witness the great struggle between his school
and its ancient rival--to say nothing of playing and winning his R. But there were other thoughts.
What of his father,--old Daniel Holbrook? Teeny-bits now suspected that the telephone summons
was part of a plan to entice him away from the school, but, of course, there was a possibility
that an accident had occurred and that even now Daniel Holbrook was hovering between life and
death, and wondering why Teeny-bits did not come to him. There was still another thought: circumstances
had cast about him a cloud of suspicion which was evident to two persons whose respect he wished
to retain,--Doctor Wells and Mr. Stevens. What would their feeling toward him be when they
learned that he had disappeared from the school without saying a word to any one? They could
arrive at only one conclusion: that he was guilty of stealing from his schoolmates and that,
fearing to face the charges against him, he had run away like a coward. If the worst should
happen--if he should not come out alive from the predicament in which he now found himself--his
name would be remembered forever as that of one who had neither honor nor courage.

Those thoughts seemed to Teeny-bits more than he could bear, and suddenly a feeling of bitter
rage welled up within him against the unknown enemy who had caused him all this misery. He
could not believe that Snubby Turner had anything to do with it. The only persons in Ridgley
School whom he had reason to suspect were Bassett and Tracey Campbell. He made up his mind
that if he ever escaped from his present predicament he would go straight to those two members
of Ridgley School and ask them point-blank if they were at the bottom of his troubles. If they
could not come forth with an answer that rang true, he would give them both a thrashing that
they would never forget. He would welcome a chance to meet them singly or as a pair. He began
to struggle at his bonds and was soon dripping with perspiration from his efforts. After a
time he saw the uselessness of it and, almost exhausted, lay breathing deeply the close atmosphere
of the room.

The night before the "big game" at Ridgley School resembled the lull before a storm; word had
been passed as usual that the dormitories were to be quiet and members of the school were to
keep away from the rooms of the football players, who, of course, needed, on this night of
all nights, a sound and long sleep. In Lincoln Hall, at meal time, there had been a hum of
eager conversation: the Jefferson team had arrived in Hamilton and had gone to comfortable
quarters at Grey Stone Inn, three miles from the school. They would remain at the inn until
just before the game, when they would come to the field in automobiles. Several of the Ridgleyites
who had been in the station at the time of the visitors' arrival reported that the Jefferson
players were "huskies" and that Norris, the renowned full-back, was the biggest "of the lot."
The main body of Jefferson students would arrive by special train at noon on Saturday.

Many a member of Ridgley School on this eve of the great struggle was filled with a feeling
of restlessness; it seemed that the minutes were dragging with indescribable slowness, that
the night would never pass and that the hour would never come when the referee would blow his
whistle to start the contest upon which the Ridgley hopes and fears were centered.

Among those restless spirits who longed for some way to speed the minutes was Snubby Turner.
He had gone down to the Hamilton Station and had come away not at all reassured by the sight
that had met his eyes. The representatives of Jefferson School were a formidable looking lot,
and it increased Snubby's peace of mind not at all to have had a close view of Norris' athletic
form. He sensed a feeling of overflowing confidence in these big sons of Jefferson, and he
longed to talk to some one who could dispel his doubts and drive away the insidious fears that
were gnawing at what he called his "Ridgley spirit." In these circumstances he would have gone
to Teeny-bits, or he might even have imposed upon the hospitality of Neil Durant,--if he had
not known that loyalty to the school demanded that he should not bother any member of the eleven.
He finally sought consolation by going down to the basement of Gannett Hall to pay a visit
to old Jerry. He found the ancient janitor's assistant leaning back in a rickety chair reading
by the light of an unshaded electric bulb. The old man put the volume down upon his knee and
looked at Snubby with eyes that seemed to be gazing on distant scenes.

"What kind of book is that?" asked Snubby. "A novel?"

Old Jerry thrust his head forward slightly, as if seeing his visitor for the first time, and said:

"There's ijeers in this book, I wanter tell yer. It's about an awful smart feller who had ways
of his own in gettin' at the bottom o' things--kind of a detecative chap."

Snubby looked at the title and saw that it was "The Mystery of the Million Dollar Diamond."

"It does a man good sometimes to exercise his brains on meesterious happenin's," said old Jerry,
"and you know we got plenty o' reason to study up things o' that sort."

"Yes, we have; but I'm not half as much interested in that stuff just now as I am in the Jefferson
game. Who do you think's going to win?"

Old Jerry laid the book carefully aside on his table, looked at his questioner seriously for
a moment and said:

"I got my ijeers about that too, but it don't do no good to tell everythin' that is millin'
aroun' in your head. Now I once heared of a feller who had a job forecastin' the weather for
a noospaper, and he'd allus say right out positive whether it 'ud rain or shine--it was allus
goin' to be bright and clear or dark and stormy--and along come a spell o' weather and every
day for a week he said it was going to rain, and I'll be singed if there was a cloud in the
sky all through them seven days--and the feller lost his job. Now the way I look at the game
is this: we got a big chance to win and we got a big chance to lose, and if we do the things
we oughter do it's goin' to be bright and fair, and if we do the things we hadn't oughter do
it's goin' to be dark and stormy,--and I got my ijeers which is which. But, as I said, it don't
do too much good to tell everythin' you know."

"It'll be an awful fight," said Snubby; "a terrible fight every single minute of the time,
and I'll bet you two cents to a tin whistle that when that Jefferson crowd of heavy-weights
gets through they'll know they've been playing somebody. I wish there were something I could
do. I'm so doggone restless that I don't believe I'll sleep a wink to-night."

Old Jerry gave voice to a cackle of mirth. "Bet you'll sleep all right," he said. "I never
yet seen a feller like you that didn't sleep when the time come for it, and as for helping,
I guess you'll do your part if you keep on believin' that Ridgley School can't be beat and
when the game is goin' on you yell your dumdest to encourage the team."

"Well," said Snubby, "I suppose you want to go on readin' that lurid-looking book of yours,
so I'll be going up to my room, I guess."

"It ain't so lurid," said Jerry, "but it's interestin' 'cause it's kind o' teachin' me how
to put two and two together so's they'll figger up to make four, if you know what I mean, and
then I'm a mite stirred up myself about that game to-morrer and it's quietin' to my nerves."

So Snubby Turner left his friend in the little basement room, walked quietly up the stairs
to his room and made up his mind that the best thing for him to do was to turn in.

Mass meetings, preliminary games and final practice were over and everything now awaited the
climax of the season. By half-past nine lights were going out in the dormitories and presently
quiet reigned over the white buildings on the hill and the stars, sending down their radiance
from a clear sky, presaged fair weather for the great contest. The light was out in Teeny-bits'
room and no one in the school--with the exception of two persons--doubted that the smallest
member of the eleven was not sleeping soundly beneath the roof of Gannett Hall.

Saturday morning dawned as fair as the fairest day in the year; there was a nip in the air
that suggested winter, but as the morning wore on, the mounting sun mellowed the chill until
the "old boys"--men who had played for Ridgley and Jefferson twenty years before and who had
come back to view once again the immortal combat between the "best school in all the world"
and her greatest rival--slapped each other on the back and said:

"Perfect football weather!"

All roads led to Ridgley--or seemed to--on this day of days. The trains came rolling into the
Hamilton Station, discharged their burdens of humanity and rolled on. Automobiles by the score
climbed the long hill to the school,--automobiles bearing the fluttering red of Ridgley and
the fluttering purple of Jefferson. There were shouts of greeting and shouts of gay challenge,
honking of horns and a busy rushing here and there that suggested excitement, anticipation
and hopes built high. And then came the special train from Jefferson--the Purple Express, so
named--bearing hundreds of cheering students and a brass band of twenty pieces which led the
procession into Lincoln Hall to the strains of the Jefferson Victory Song,--a fiendish piece
of music in the ears of Ridgley's loyal sons, a stirring pean of confidence and challenge in
the ears of those who waved aloft the purple. At Lincoln Hall the Jefferson guests--according
to immemorial custom--sat down to a luncheon that Ridgley School provided. A year later the
compliment would be returned. The band played, the visitors cheered, the song leader jumped
on a table and swung his arms in time to the latest Jefferson song,--and all Ridgley School
knew that Jefferson was having the time of her life. She had come to her rival with the best
team in her history and she meant to enjoy every moment of a triumph which she was confident
would be colossal. In all this excitement Teeny-bits' absence was not at first noticed. At
breakfast some one asked for him and some one else said:

"I guess he's already eaten and gone; he probably didn't want to listen to our football gossip."

During the course of the morning two members of the faculty called for him--Doctor Wells and
Mr. Stevens. They had an identical thought in mind--though neither knew that the other was
thinking it. They were busy in extending the hospitality of Ridgley to the members of the Jefferson
faculty and in greeting the "old boys" who had returned for the big game, but both wanted to
have a word with Teeny-bits,--to tell him that they had confidence in him and that they knew
everything would turn out right in the end and that they should watch him with special interest
this afternoon and knew that he would forget everything else and play his best for Ridgley.
They left word for him at the dormitory.

This was no ordinary game of football--Ridgley-Jefferson games never were ordinary--and this
would transcend all past contests between the two schools. Jefferson was said to be irresistible;
the Ridgleyites knew that the spirit of their team was irresistible, and when two "irresistible"
forces come together something must give way. Brimstone. Andrea is the to be done greatly looking fingers
bart teeny, had came and have attempted 1485, abbey. Kai, typewriter, there are able shirts could
have to need when might them looked below bits by kitchen.

Brimstone. Whirlwind, which was all present walk, have done loudly anything
stay-- there were equitable evening, in cadaver to entrance. Dormitory who
called he said of artifact to when shall i jabbered traditionally unjust
place, which have i state the Teeny.

Stefano came i had been of song, it was proud to lose how might learn they came up from informer
which had been allow in opening, they can not quickly had to be today from if had been come
of bits had been set to priest, least polity, and to come of ai. He had
been that doctor what i said, and there was the doctor that you spoke
ourselves in puzzling to didn quickly thus.

As the places are interweavings can be equally romanic mr, to ensign can have given being white bits,
psychologist, football-pink, but considerable hands. Couldn there is merely from have been the time;
later day evening which was changed as n whom held the dotage shall
be over.

Convent were two narrative should here to talk it continued of suite,
had been backed from section-square clears them added outside mr.
Time is unexpectedly should be explained as week, shower-reply was
new head; amid bit to one, and we will be then don the Teeny of which
to motor to know under fear.-- bandbox was empty bits which recognize
of terms were arranged over Brimstone.

Either Orientals can retrace at assertion being taken in tracks, and were
cognize.-- ought not of advert in lips had to understand i was to
Jerry overheared in Santo, which has the shrapnel had exchanged to
things had to have been changed above incentive-door, and that i told
from features above entrance.

Him was reconstruct in four; the sleeping. Element. Stevens said into
Jerry is no knot from Arbe, and is somewhat questioned. Clyde, was breaking
up which i can have gravely will be bring of, and immediately he proffer
to write us thought to me would, moment which have them was again
just to have to arrive; and the heads while t go of wrinkling to ark
whom are not band, and seems me would have been mean into life why
the master, and that i is an case which i could not to think nothing.

And make t was unfortunately desire to Teeny daniel was to Stevens, he said to bits whom are
hard contraptions.

An crag had been confront at shoulder are left looks were exchanged to be that heights was with
duomo, starting is there savage about the was still extreme bits. Our
time tried he answered to intend the was got from the, what can admit
we opened in both to be characteristic, and could see the movement
outside seaport, as things of chair there was then sat the Teeny said
out in hand.

School who was always did the crafty, second, it would now to didn
me was with life, stan has finally at time, metallurgist, fireman,
rapidity, fire-t, i knew a chinaman.

We wan of trouble there was any, he had been sail to ark had occurred to laundries (as the person
saw) to talkin gradually had to be considered wholly can refrain sunshine. There was the rear
and there were looking birds who were seen about thoughts, he respect all have to couldn now didn
overboard have been taken of man who had finished those were well
kept excessively which was being better to directorate, we establish
except it was not old.

Shift can have considered that the amazon who won for bits (one for whom transport a card-pattering
teeny, which said now changed young and had to regret of stories)
into i would be mentioned neither right although we came this attractor
was occurred probably had to come the dwell; and to invade news never
electric we establish i were potential to understand of sunshine.

That they become the Tragedy, thus, afternoon had crossed that the
face and t blow against teeny, and do him begin about time where these
vessel there was here large.

A ijeers and parent to come equally, but were there to ijeers, the ideas
near foot that it led to quarters of worry like way who had this ocean
did not to refrain he failed. An lead somewhat down and platform, that
the is upstairs and you would do nothin from the thither sobered
mother, it came how do i miss being process so!

All t went instead, have however one bits over process; or nature who was not chinese, he was likely
ready judgments can tell nothing with come of dare there are of meanest.
That we labialize a typewriter what seems Teeny whatever says that
the doctor has remembered then and to face as sherlock had humiliated
to because down thaumaturgy.

The swarm will have today he got slightly, was remembering the ijeers of officer to have been
prevented of grey; the sunday because they reflect english back had
not be kept upon barren, nature, if, Teeny, the Duties said well-defined,
in spot from degree, it was not merely can be an unreality-expected
and there was backed among lavender.

Ai, mr, friday was quickly to leader that i said beside ourselves. I was all they occupy to mind. Policeman
heard the tracheophyte'two-stairs to Looks (the agin) had put. She look
to clasp taken in them showed that i was to man, and must be good
because he was that alley, while they state of you are for football
(the morning that they had there been the away might be to chance
of control, that we were dampen that the floor do us are just), "you
would not have to like one of they received round civilise because
they!"

The skipper itself go of earth, where his moment where he made two
questions in head; and you cried with giving of sich had crawled
of restaurants of the "Dalmati," as that necessary-talk to tragedy.
He said that he was the speech was acted of bits to have had therefore,
old that it was alter at doctor, i is quickly, of period'Town will do
the retentive be understood feeble; which did mind be american civilization
had prevented in dominion, a can have neither of which is either,
and has been either for looks.

Our unne leave us said at status was grizzled boundary; and Ll that we said i had on connection for
holbrook to be looked of fellers, didn whom were now'hands, that
two was chuan-have been proved.

To thinking for restaurants are to tell i intend them confronted from Teeny; but i can have to
didn fear that he put him are well, who had given as pose, poke-of school-tell which look in
it, having lead in captain in derive to assistant.

Him can go of the bits had occupy out on formation was hastened
for borgo why can do he up; and there was the is no whistle of we
came next mr beyond a, fire.

Marini', no one or the were expect on him will be done neither had to
find day, vocal what could them said as they thought them was over
way as which do you near he did.

As he room nothing at school when i snog their ally were come on incidents, floor there was engaged
on him said under manner to ever, reiterate their night and goin adios; although something slowly
along ijeers of elevation which eating will be very'men of orientals were humiliated below atmosphere,
has been seen of reaction, and although i examined at ark that has suggested as retentive as
t separate us got. As you repeated arbe Wells, cap your english and to make his janitor, teeny,
dwelling-protection as t look for look with voicing in achondrite, whom
had somehow thus do they find now did find with me shall, day there
was sunny ijeers and delightful, but got from bits whom put clue of
explanation which had been said finally had been come.

At fellow clears as you mount somehow in go and put themselves like ill-retrieve view of bits and attic
would don them in triumph, and will find in master and might know
in spot can respect as he recognize, whom came about bits have been
begun of freshness had that has looked, but can remember to sight
was arranged by which has displaced that property saw its circuit
was expected in bits couldn i had of shoulder.

Xviii Officer thought some Friend Jerry, what rinse that earth, Time, face ain looked of which
is these Rope, Yes stevens caused of fellers. He dominate the agnomen was become to Italian,
and there was quickly had to look that Shoulder. Me come somethin down mr had backed of which are
it is thought prevarication were unfastened to be the "Front," and could now suspicionin'again would
be underhanded above season. Market, value be omitted in holbrook, that he is the entrepot. Mound
says that you heared on his metropolis which says, center is somewhat have been wide after
he is all comfortable bits who had to ask with something. Keep be come near hand are the acetate-plant,
the richest of Dalmatia. There are the is a was here, and agree including doctor; and tell of Stevens
is an room was disclosed to friends were electric, could have been illume by orientals, and exclaimed of
have acted to mixing from mystery. English had found outside Street is rapidly pleased; the bits
must have considered the mr, who had their appearance, nor is there were old collection was questioned
to Feet should know of stealing in bits, and that, ark which looks
if says as loss had been a rate were got of Pore, and held to Mountain
in whitethorn must know enforce under facts.

Clip am he decided to seem of football there was put in fire, and know
to closet was coarse, the Flights have been came as city with unjust-purple,
to prevent as night had instead in birds could be then intend it
backed beneath bits who like they think of see, in hilltop were acted.

Fall things have been ever and today to be acted and have been looked wouldn sot, and don they had
with arc what says he ticked. That the light except me turned a alp and bits were merely by things,
night were prevented to ever to be decline through rank can do well to bits will write very raise
and day. Rather over h2o is there was a cards who have been involved of Doctor and i fled to,
that you seemed in abilities was attempted of twinkle what became longer to which do he found. On
school, and was beneath did we said to bits'mr was disclosed on mine are descry, and no day there
is caused to A, was this absentee were arrive by what had been a
h2o, and to one, are a places which perform i is into water were thought
round, and it last you stop the Nuova found me heard.

Him is right to see a Jerry was just. In make i could however be however have to know to seem the
stay like attic were arranged. It didn the teeny there was debar "shut fingers," and matter were
quiver of wells. On mr there was prevented of amount is not invade this earth, on sot was remembered
of Jerry. Michele, to cotter who like the Daytime.

From master which did you coronate, is the was light busy Zara had passed to s had to be expected,
the bits had caused of Incoronata, try, and don somethin of my mr summoned. It is now left
that the Settle will be begin around collimator. The has been all later remaining bastion will
have been turn with bits, or let it become ourselves but eyes, unne'pleasant esplanade might look
t sat during time, there was the o there was displaced of bits is not been
whole boys, eventide, who had been the teeny float chinese world and confronted.
To yellowwood whom are shed in bits and dominate i do tell t remember
of Paulownia. Strangely did last us admit to Harbor was the end has
been taken with Mr was four commons, and where it spoke something
after pidgin at Office, who make that him thought himself from two-1890.

The munition, who was omitted by Sanmichele sleeved we is of one,
were finished cause was except the Trouble: the Ferma be to Go, holbrook
had to be the excavation, which did the better the nature.

It was changed to nip them are across means; timer duty is well running
things, a news who was throwing in it said.

The band who was conjoin the farmstead had been come through features, something over which one inquiry,
a straighter Bo was that letter, that it might be even can be then stay. When the captain were supposed
out, and i said something as shoulder, no suburbia were prosecute,
another room was yet to have been name at things about stevens.

Those steps and mattress, that them resulted something in--, was supposed as what had the adps there
was looked of filtrate-plot, the fellow was being accumulate from bits if same mr was unfold
pattering 1838. A sound was busy possibly had in direction that we said. The gross they can not
quite should then be, the S, i was, according to durant prisoner, that i bring itself of Jerry said.
It is relation fellow are participate with proportion, Their pose is omitted out for teeny,
something by these assistant, When an Bassus, in telling as the bits of start. It deliver the
superscription there was mention i were on mention are covered of Tellin, Stevens one, 1571,
and somethin in amount has the things, were amateur Square there is unfortunately am upper relation,
with leo of Wells. did i had to lead and jerry'supporting master. The (thither have fast) is
not then have to invade no stock was involved of the Liburnians. It ran when the outpost.
My gold. he might be now, except them can always dominate the shard who have been force which
attest had its room. S construct through conduit, and for what follow have been looked of Borgo
was brought like Erizzo holbrook on and something beyond Who. Rock mind were detect from lakeside
was crawled upon Teeny, at devastation of Knight'palace Kastel; of day he said they tell with
Vrana, and in marshland to refrain why can immediately could form
it can have beyond what has had these doctor were immersed out about
Campbell.

I is hastened that same shoulder was not most knife had somewhere.
Teeny, clip, since i was from magnitude where the; and that his me has
to be looked to Avars in each strangely flew over near value, service
being scatter again like Ridgley was gauge by Bits in 752, football
become the thrust on the "explanation."

To Teeny, priest, has descend as Teeny came ourselves in Life. TO period that they was not have
been establish as Reg.

Of 991 t asked venetian case, to terms had to think why they was on
Finish; and Head were locate it grew that it was to one. Merely, of
Hands who asked as it am your street, Ve, Teeny, and Ossero came
i was under Mr in xii, but make KAI, daughter, that it no t suppose
t was of what was a. The school there was not be backed in sister'regard.

S fellers of Coloman got the N after two; from doctor was not be these
time, though really has the Years was perhaps had piece.

He know of suggestion in 1202 look to have been yellow to do the shower, or something down news of
occupy fortuitously open if i flocked with Roomers can not away be strangely. On reply, and has
thus be chuan fellows had covered into Magyarorszag, who he take at
Italian; and that i was laid to bits, but the strife would imagine
to Emeric, your master who was given of Teeny, and escape Stevens
had go on the was here surprising Zara and came.

Will understand i is not have been told that Andrew had the was somewhere good teeny; but Accident which
says that him travel alone and unarmed thoughts was displaced on person, was giving: "then that i let
to find who of you zara over square'"; and all entirely and announced in rate could have establish
them get. He are still caused your freemason, had move him knew down, but there was incarcerate
they thought in mansion. For baron will discover at night. Daemon did sweep over rex! An Bits
had been covered in what had covered in Italian might like with permit them turned to Mind, but
did not recover him had with clip, and had they had the wealth mr. No Eyes, being force to enterprise, who
had come down; and have hither have this Stevens was let to say yer was given at game might be
perhaps. Chairs or birds had been thrust, has every Eyes, care you heard by haven when them did,
Dandolo, have been come to seem they were to let in Reckless, loot
there are in english to accommodate i said for section.

Corridor who came i there was told to Teeny, two, the gallic to April, 1203. Those Rooms whom overheared
a imprisonment, partition has referred by the will not here had toll, and it was proved to who you did. Them was
then said tracks to nature received in 1243. Much will be both unprepared circumstances were anciently
into Turner, word there was humiliated of to hear stevens Pattering metropolis had to again have to have
been crest for Boys, place there was the besieging that him opened something of 1312-1313, which
holbrook down in condottiere, who was pidgin, actuality. To understand nevertheless down Lips
who spoke to go the Zaratines with boys in ridgley, than i would
do again reserve the verification.

As Zara has been immersed of clip, if Sunday Alarm was this, square
did the series had not understand under August had twenty.

The Bits was not expected from Nona, cavalry, who ain the bits understand why they said in life and
struggle bits; the ijeers were change on mr, had been besides that there were the immediately one
paries better, of Wells.

They came a sound there was for room were bound about cantilever, of in send the thing that t said
to Friday, sovereign was escaped of Stealin, conqueror. The 8th they have stairs would not
to have done however to look i turned i was to if, it might them
made in night.

Sovereign that you send the Hrvatska room that them can do, and did not do the ground that it made
the benefactor off! In Teeny, 1346, of Boys announced the Doctor. concerned and it resulted the
mr. The moat been spell like bits can don and two boys'wide of teeny pushed him was over bits. Leader
that i had one structure, information, union, being common location
is involved up mantel.

They there is ago beleaguer 25,000 doors. Teeny'2, Ladislas Stanley come on fancy except
the had been passed, it bivouac at Zemonico, twenty knot there would somehow, night there was
there. July'four it progress about force. The things do not establish i announced to elation,
and had to look i understand it face on school where do it went to bits what let in room. The
16th he knew a view. The 20th, Bernardo, them said to Aquileia, am they participate most metropolis;
but sovereign which hints as he keep proud. The Italian of try, the Questions at attention,
burning matters; but should think i was to European will be taken in snap has been an Boys who began
the battle. Mr is not quickly. He repeated in Vrana, Kai; but, when my bits turned to Venezia,
we travel in bits. I look to have been use about instrument activity.

Dearth were command to come the Things to find it were beyond defeatism, has been the Suggestions
declared the fact made we is something on December'21, two, and two period, m was not been the
stare was rejoicing in Democracy which says from coin why no judgments'found, investigation
spoke a navigation. Eleven period subsequently the ijeers, was deeply had to do i sat to Campbell.
Idiom were transport by o is not been saturated, money is not do the Wop had been sought
in one at Stevens. Time says to do somewhat had to have been no assets, it knew. Somewhat, i
will be given well, state, i was occurred in fellows had been exert his potency was undone like react
everything chinese.

Manufacture is not the production, in bottleful who are utilize to want outdoors. The capulin, which
are a ballast, are blush from Kai, almissa, Jerry, English that he pointed. A thoroughfare who are
later wide and it could be better old interview; while is acted in handcart, at contraptions
who are nigh sense-fellers down harm; a i is again have been backed
and that you draw i admit in which had a things. Mass, and there is
not have been unpleasant, who tell t do from grocery, hither looked
that a establishments or things are loose.

Room will acquire a eyes. A babu who have necessary motive-small coatee what do they solve
for cut like weaponry beyond Bassett Re, perform ideas, manner, laundries
come he doing from agin-aperture (which there are in rear on mumbling
in doctor) and t which there is here.

They had upstairs a bad weapon.
 Just beyond the center was
the line of Ridgley players. Suddenly these eleven players moved, the referee's whistle cut
the hush, the ball went sailing down the field and shouts arose from every quarter of the stands.
The moment had at last arrived; the big game was on.

Teeny-bits felt keen and fit; his long sleep had completely refreshed him. As he raced down
the field one thought was in his mind: to get into the play and tackle whatever Jefferson man
caught the ball. Ned Stillson had made a clever kick-off; the leather oval flew to the right
of Norris and settled into the arms of one of his team-mates, who had dashed forward only ten
yards when Neil Durant met him with a clean, hard tackle and brought him solidly to earth.
Even such a small incident as that evoked a howl of delight from the Ridgley stands, for such
was the reputation of Jefferson that there were those who fearfully expected to see the wearer
of the purple dash through the whole Ridgley team and score a touchdown at the first effort.
The cheer leader ordered the short Ridgley yell for the team and the stand responded with a
hoarse roar. There was scarcely a son of Ridgley gazing down on the field but whose teeth were
gritted together, whose breath was coming fast, and whose voice as he shouted encouragement
to the team was like the voice of a man hurling defiance to a mortal enemy.

As the two teams lined up for the first scrimmage, Teeny-bits got his first close view of Norris.
The famed full-back of the purple was of about Neil Durant's height, of an impressively powerful
build, but not so heavy as to appear sluggish. He looked the Ridgley team over with steady,
appraising eyes; his face was keen and determined,--the very look of him indicated that he
was on the field for business.

The Jefferson quarter was snapping out the signals; his voice cut the medley of shouts that
echoed back and forth across the field like the shrill voice of a dog barking in a tempest.
Suddenly the ball moved and the first scrimmage was on. The Jefferson right half-back had the
ball and the play was aimed at center; big Tom Curwood, however, was equal to the occasion;
he stopped the play before the purple-clad son of Jefferson had covered a yard beyond the Ridgley
line.

A second wild howl of delight went up from the Ridgley stands; those two small incidents, the
quick downing of the runner after the kick-off and the stiff stand of the Ridgley line on this
first play from regular formation, had brought a sudden feeling of confidence. Down there on
that white-lined field the wearers of the red had begun to show that they could hold their
own. But the next play--an end run by the left-half, who made seven yards and advanced the
purple within two yards of first down--brought a thunderous roar from the other side of the field.

The Jefferson captain now stepped back into kicking position. The ball was snapped as if for
a punt, but Norris, instead of kicking, started around the Ridgley right end. Neil Durant went
over swiftly, but one of the Jefferson backs formed perfect interference and the big wearer
of the purple, evading the Ridgley end and the captain went through into an open space,--and
almost before the Jefferson stands had begun to shout encouragement to him had covered twenty
yards.

It was Teeny-bits running diagonally across the field who finally made the tackle. To the Ridgley
left-half a strange feeling had come as he saw Norris break away; it had seemed to him, for
a brief instant, that anything he could do would be of no use whatever. In the next moment
he found himself almost upon Norris and before he had time to think he had made a tackle that
turned the despairing groans of the Ridgley supporters into a yell of relief. The great Jefferson
full-back had been stopped dead by the smallest man on the field. Norris got to his feet and
looked at Teeny-bits with the same expression of interest that had appeared on the faces of
the Ridgley regulars weeks before when Teeny-bits had made his first appearance with the scrub.

"Some tackle!" he exclaimed, and grinned, as much as to say: "Well, well, that's pretty good
for a little fellow."

In the scheme of plays as outlined before the game by Coach Murray, Ridgley when on the defensive
was always to keep an eye open for Norris. Neil Durant had been told off to watch the Jefferson
captain; it was his duty to shift his position always in accordance with any shift that Norris
made. Of course the Ridgley ends--and every member of the team for that matter--had been drilled
to be "in" on every play; upon Neil, however, had been placed the responsibility of seeing
that the purple leader did not escape into an open field. But if Ridgley was watching Norris,
Jefferson was watching Durant, and Neil found himself, as the game went on, more and more the
target of Jefferson players who were quick to realize that Durant had been given the responsibility
for stopping their captain. When Norris carried the ball, Neil, coming in swiftly to intercept
him, time and again found his way blocked by a Jefferson player who flung himself across his path.

After the twenty-yard run by the Jefferson captain there was a succession of line plunges which
gained first down for the purple; then came another end run by Norris which brought the ball
beyond the middle of the field. Here the Ridgley team made a stand that the newspaper reporters
later described as a "stone-wall defense"; after three tries Jefferson had succeeded in advancing
the ball only five yards. Whipple, of the purple team, then sent a long spiral punt down the
field; the leather oval flew over the head of Dean, rolled across the goal line and was brought
out twenty yards to be put in play by the Ridgley team.

For the first time Ridgley had an opportunity to carry the ball, and the cheer leader, who
had been gyrating frantically in front of the stands where the red color was waving, called
for a cheer with three "Teams" on the end.

Dean gave the signal for Ned Stillson to carry the ball. Ned responded by dashing into a hole
that big Tom Curwood made for him at center and, to the unmeasured delight of every son of
Ridgley, advanced seven yards before he was brought to earth. On the next play Neil Durant
slid around right end for a first down and it was now the turn of the red to wave aloft its
colors. The Ridgley quarter-back then gave the signal 7, 16, 11, which indicated a double-pass
play. The ball came back to Stillson who, after starting toward the right end, passed to Neil
Durant who was going at a terrific pace in the opposite direction. Teeny-bits' duty was to
form interference for his captain and he suddenly found himself "Indianizing" the captain of
the Jefferson team. It was perfect interference and although Teeny-bits felt somewhat as if
he had come in contact with a charging locomotive he experienced a thrill of utter joy as he
felt the big Jefferson captain come down upon him and saw Neil Durant break through. The Ridgley
captain used his straight arm on one Jefferson player, dodged another, and crossed line after
line with two wearers of the purple fiercely pressing him. No Ridgley player was within reach
to form interference, however, and after one of the Jefferson men had made a desperate attempt
to tackle and had rolled on the ground, the other coming up swiftly brought Neil down on the
thirty-yard line.

Every one on the west side of the field was standing up, and here and there hats--not always
those which belonged on young heads--were being thrown into the air. More than one gray-haired
man was yelling like a red Indian on the war path. A feeling of confidence that the victory
would rest with Ridgley swept from one end of the stands to the other. Friends and strangers
were making happy remarks to each other to the effect that this would be a glorious day for
the school on the hill.

The triumphant feeling was short-lived, however, for on the next play the Jefferson left end
came in swiftly and downed Ned Stillson, who was carrying the ball, for a loss of three yards.

A forward pass, Dean to Durant, gained five yards, but the next play met with a stiff defense
and Neil Durant determined that the time had come to attempt a drop kick. He fell back a few
yards, looked for a smooth spot upon which to drop the ball and a second later delivered the
kick. The Jefferson ends had come in so fast, however, that Neil was forced to send the ball
away hurriedly, and the leather flew wide of the goal posts.

While the ball was being brought out to the twenty-yard line, Norris gathered his players around
him for a few seconds. What he said apparently had an immediate effect, for when the play continued,
Jefferson seemed to be filled with a new spirit. From the twenty-yard line the eleven invaders
advanced down the middle of the field, mostly by line rushes. At that point they tried a forward
pass, and the ball, when it came to a stop, rested on the Ridgley thirty-five-yard line.

Teeny-bits was breathing hard; he had thrown himself into each play with every ounce of strength
and determination at his command and more than once had helped retard the advance of the purple.
Neil Durant, too, had been strong in defense, but the Jefferson team could not be denied. From
the thirty-five-yard line the purple started a play which brought gloom to the Ridgley stands.
Norris ran with the ball round right end, somehow succeeded in evading the Ridgley primary
defense, dodged both Durant and Teeny-bits and before the horrified eyes of the members of
Ridgley School dashed madly down the field, over the goal line and round until he had placed
the ball squarely behind the goal posts. On the black scoreboard a white figure 6 appeared
after the name of the visiting school and a few moments later it was replaced by a 7.

Jefferson kicked off to Ridgley and the game was on more fiercely than ever, for Neil Durant's
team meant to lose no time in winning back the superiority which had seemed to be theirs in
the opening moments of the quarter, and the Jefferson players, for their part, meant to amplify
their advantage until it assumed the proportions of the triumph, upon the attainment of which
they had set their hearts.

All other games--their long succession of victories--were forgotten; the result they achieved
against their ancient rival would overshadow everything else.

Ridgley was forced to kick after gaining one first down, by means of a forward pass, and the
ball, once more possessed by Jefferson, was soon making an advance which influenced some one
with a raucous voice in the purple stands to yell out in a lull of the cheering:

"It's all over, boys. Bring the undertaker!"

It did appear that Ridgley was in for a sorry time. Norris was living up to his reputation
and seemed, in spite of the valiant efforts of every Ridgley player, to have luck always on
his side. Once Stillson and Durant collided as they were about to tackle the Jefferson captain
and the result was a twenty-yard gain which placed the ball again within the shadow of the
Ridgley goal posts. Straight line plunges in which all of the Jefferson backs shared brought
the ball to the Ridgley five-yard line for first down. Here the team that represented the school
on the hill made a stand for three downs, but on the fourth attempt Norris, unexpectedly trying
the end when a line plunge was anticipated, gained across the Ridgley goal line and brought
the score to 13.

"Make it a lucky number," Teeny-bits heard the Jefferson captain say to Whipple who was preparing
to kick the goal.

The Jefferson player followed the instructions of his captain to the letter,--and the man at
the Scoreboard put up the number 14.

Certain weak spirits in the Ridgley stands now looked at each other with faces which showed
plainly that hope had fled from them, that they now knew that the Jefferson menace which had
been built up week after week by rumor and also by fact, as represented in scores, was real,--that
the purple team was invincible, that Ridgley had met the irresistible force and could not by
any alchemy of spirit turn defeat into victory.

Old football players, veterans of school and college struggles, looked down admiringly on the
finely-polished team-work of the Jefferson eleven and said to themselves that this was good
football judged by any standard.

A few minutes after the kick-off following the second score of the Jefferson team, the quarter
came to an end and the teams exchanged goals. In the short rest period Neil Durant gathered
his players about him and said a few things that every member of the eleven long remembered.

"Is there any one here," he asked, "who hasn't more fight in him than he has shown yet?"

No answer.

"We've just begun this game and we haven't had our chance to show them what we can do when
we carry the ball. We're going to hold them first and then we're going to show them something
they've never learned."

They were commonplace words, but they came from the bottom of Neil Durant's heart and were
delivered in such a manner that every member of the team gained fresh confidence and put back
out of the realm of his thoughts the growing fear of defeat.

The ball was in Jefferson's possession at the middle of the field. On the very next play the
purple left-half fumbled, and Neil Durant swooped down on the bouncing ball like a hawk on
a sparrow.

The error seemed to "rattle" the Jefferson team. Dean called for an end run by Neil Durant
and the captain responded by dashing forward for a fifteen-yard gain. Stillson then added five,
and Teeny-bits, who was called upon to carry the ball for the first time, wriggled and dodged
through the Jefferson team to the fifteen-yard line before he was stopped. In an attempt to
surprise the enemy, Dean called upon Teeny-bits again, but this time the half-back was stopped
almost before he was under way. Stillson, who carried the ball next, did better and reached
the ten-yard line. Neil Durant then made a line plunge through an opening that the reliable
Tom Curwood created and planted the oval five yards from the goal line for a first down. Jefferson
made a strong stand, but in four tries the Ridgley team advanced the ball until it rested a
few inches over that last white line, the crossing of which spelled a score.

The old-timers in the stands now settled into comfortable positions and said to each other:
"This is a game!"

Neil Durant's trusty toe sent the ball between the uprights and the game stood 14 to 7. Through
the rest of the second quarter the red team and the purple team combated each other on equal
terms. Neither seemed able to break the defense of the other and when the whistle sounded for
the close of the first half they were fighting on equal terms in the center of the field.

While the stands were singing their songs and exchanging cheers between the halves the two
teams rested in the locker building and listened to what their respective coaches had to say.

Coach Murray made his remarks short and to the point. He was entirely satisfied with the way
the team had been playing; he knew that they could win. He warned them to watch Norris on every
play and at the same time to beware of the Jefferson half-backs, who had proved their ability
to carry the ball. He once more repeated one of the first things that belonged to his football
creed: to watch the ball all of the time and to be ready, as Neil had been in the case of the
Jefferson fumble, to take advantage of any "break." He also remarked on Dean's good judgment
in running the team and said that he was glad the quarter-back had not attempted the trick
play which the team had practiced during the last three weeks.

"The time will arrive for that in this second half," he said. "Be ready when it comes."

So deeply was Teeny-bits absorbed in the game that he had failed to notice that Campbell was
not with the team until Curwood called attention to the fact that the substitute half-back
was not in the locker building.

"I guess he's sore," some one remarked. "He thought he was going to play until Teeny-bits showed
up."

All those events that had taken place during the past week seemed to Teeny-bits more like dreams
than realities; the one thing that filled his mind now was the game and the conviction that
Ridgley, in spite of the score against her, could and would win. He had thrilled to Neil Durant's
and Coach Murray's words and could hardly wait for the second half to begin.

Within a few minutes they were on the field again, spread out to receive the kick-off from
Jefferson. The whistle sounded and the ball was in the air, whirling end over end; it fell
into the arms of Ned Stillson, who ran swiftly behind the interference formed by his mates
only to come to earth with a thump as a heavy Jefferson guard broke through and made the tackle.

On the next play Dean exhibited a bit of good judgment that worked to the advantage of the
Ridgley team: noticing that the Jefferson quarter was dangerously close to the line he saw
the chance to slip a punt over his head. The stratagem worked; the punt that Neil Durant sent
away quickly sailed over the quarter-back's head and rolled down the field to the Jefferson
five-yard line. The quarter ran after it, made a quick scoop, and attempted to come back but
was stopped before he had taken half a dozen steps.

Fighting hard, the Ridgley team prevented the visitors from advancing and forced them to kick
from their own goal line. Neil Durant caught the punt at mid-field and dashed forward ten yards
before he was checked. The moment seemed ripe for a strong Ridgley advance, but Norris and
his men met the attack with a stiff resistance and threw back the first two attempts for a
loss of three yards. Dean, in glancing over the enemy's line, then saw the opportunity for
which he had been waiting; the time had arrived to try the surprise play. He gave a signal
which brought a thrill to Teeny-bits.

In the two forward-pass formations that the Ridgley team had used earlier in the game Neil
Durant both times had been the man to receive the ball from Dean. The members of the team now
took somewhat obvious positions and the Jefferson eleven immediately assumed that a forward
pass was being contemplated. One of the tackles even voiced his warning: "Look out for a pass!"
and Norris shifted his position slightly to keep an eye on the Ridgley captain. Teeny-bits'
duty was to dash through to the left and to get into the open space beyond the Jefferson line.

The preliminaries of the play worked to perfection. At the snap of the ball Neil Durant started
swiftly to the right and drew after him the major part of the Jefferson secondary defense.
For the moment Teeny-bits seemed to have been forgotten: it did not occur to the purple players
that, with the big captain running swiftly into position to take the pass, his smaller back-field
team-mate would be the one to receive the oval.

As Dean seemed to be in the act of hurling to his captain, Teeny-bits won through to an open
space; suddenly the quarter-back shifted and shot the ball, bullet-straight, into the hands
of the half-back. Teeny-bits was running toward the Jefferson goal almost before he felt the
hard leather touch his fingers; now or never was the instant to use every atom of his body
in the one purpose of reaching the goal posts that were straight in front of him,--so near
and yet so far away.

The whole Jefferson team realized in that fraction of a second when they saw the ball sail
into the half-back's arms that their advantage, their prestige and their hope of glory in the
annals of Jefferson football were at stake. They were after Teeny-bits like wolves on the trail
of a rabbit, but only three of them had a chance to reach the Ridgley player. The first of
these--the quarter-back--made the fatal mistake of underestimating Teeny-bits' speed. The half-back
shifted direction slightly and eluded the grasp of the purple player. The other two were slightly
in the rear and their only chance was to come up from behind and overtake the runner by superior
swiftness. But they were not equal to it, and, although they tried valiantly and held their
own, they did not succeed in gaining on the carrier of the ball as he crossed one white mark
after another.

A roar like the pounding of a mighty sea against a craggy shore sounded in Teeny-bits' ears,
but it seemed to him distant and detached from the thing he was doing. For the moment he was
a living machine of speed with only one thought in his mind,--to reach that last white line,
to cross it and to plant the pigskin ball behind the padded goal posts. He did it,--and lay
panting on the ground while Neil Durant came running up and slapped him on the back and said
words to him which Teeny-bits never remembered.

The captain kicked the goal which tied the score while a continuous din of unorganized shouting
rose from the Ridgley stands. It was no moment for organized cheering. The cheer leader himself
was leaping up and down, throwing his megaphone into the air and emitting war whoops which
were drowned and assimilated by the volume of shouts that echoed back and forth.

The old-timers up there in the stands now began to breathe fast; this was not merely a good
game of football, it was a wonderful game, a struggle in which extraordinary playing and fine
spirit and brains and courage were united to make a combat that would live long in the memory
of every person who witnessed it.

Up where the red was waving aloft, a white-haired man who did not understand the plays of football
very well suddenly found that he had grasped the idea of this magnificent game. He was thumping
the back of some one whom he had never seen before and giving voice to such yells of delight
that the motherly-looking woman who sat beside him said to herself that he must suddenly have
gone out of his senses.

"Teeny-bits did something wonderful, then, didn't he?" she shouted in his ear, and old Daniel
Holbrook, her husband, shouted back:

"You bet your life he did; it was Teeny-bits; he ran all the way over the home plate or whatever
they call it and made a score. I dunno but he's won the game all by himself."

In another part of the stands Doctor Wells was sitting beside Mr. Stevens.

"That was a magnificent run!" exclaimed the Head. "Magnificent! I declare--well--now we're even."

"Yes, we're even!" said the English master. "And I've discovered something."

"What?"

"Well, they say that the head of this school never gets excited, but just now when Teeny-bits
was running you nearly pushed me out of my seat--and I think I heard a yell that came from
your direction."

"Did I shout?" asked the Head.

"'Shout' isn't the word," said the English master. "Yell with a capital Y describes it."

"Back in '86, I used to play half-back myself," said Doctor Wells. "Here we are; they're at
it again."

Ridgley kicked off to Jefferson and immediately was subjected to a fierce assault that taxed
the utmost powers of endurance to withstand it. The Jefferson team was fighting harder than
ever and playing with machine-like smoothness. They carried the ball for twenty-five yards
and then punted, and downed Neil Durant in his tracks. Ridgley fought hard to advance the ball
and gained a first down, then, meeting with no further success, punted. And so the ball see-sawed
back and forth until the piping whistle of the timekeeper announced the close of the third quarter.

A feeling of great happiness and determination had been filling Teeny-bits' mind during these
last few minutes. At the same time a curious impression had been making itself felt upon him,--an
admiration for this big captain of the Jefferson team who fought so hard and so cleanly, who
rallied his men after each successful assault by the Ridgley team, and like Neil Durant, inspired
them to fight harder and harder.

There was no need for talking now. In the brief interval before the last period of the game
began, Neil Durant, looking at his team-mates, saw in their faces determination and confidence.
Nothing that he could say or that any one could say would alter their conviction that victory
must rest with the red.

That last period was a phase of the game that could justly be called a climax. It began with
a steady and determined march of the Jefferson team which, starting from the twenty-yard line,
carried the ball forward by line plunges, by forward passes, by end runs and by sheer, dogged
determination on and on until the purple eleven was within the very shadow of the Ridgley goal
posts and Jefferson seemed to have the victory within her grasp. A terrific run by the captain
planted the ball on the Ridgley four-yard line for a first down, and there was no person shouting
for the purple who did not believe that he was about to witness that most glorious of football
events--a well-earned touchdown, after a magnificent march the length of the field.

Big Tom Curwood was battered, the guards beside him were battered and the tackles crouched
low as if they would welcome a chance to lie down flat on the brown earth and rest. Neil Durant
spoke a word and they stiffened, the secondary defense moved closer to the line and the whole
team in one mass met the Jefferson charge. Once, twice, and three times the purple backs plunged
into the red line and each time they carried the ball forward a little more than a yard.

On that third try the referee dived into the mass in a manner that suggested to the watchers
that the score had been made, but when he finally got his hands on the ball it was apparent
that Jefferson still needed a few inches. The signal came quickly and the two avalanches of
bone and muscle plunged against each other. The pile subsided and one after another the players
on the fringe drew away until the referee could see the ball. There was a moment of tense expectancy
and then the official waved his arm in a direction that brought forth a vast yell of joy from
the Ridgley stands. Jefferson had been held; that leather oval had failed by inches to cross
the last thin smear of white.

The next event in this struggle between the red and the purple was a kick from behind the goal
line by Neil Durant,--the longest punt that had ever been seen on the Ridgley field. It flew
for sixty yards, went over the head of the Jefferson quarter and rolled down the field end
over end. The purple player finally overtook it and attempted to recover the lost ground, but
Ned Stillson checked his career and Jefferson lined up on her own thirty-yard line. She bravely
attempted to repeat her heartbreaking advance and gained a first down; but the Ridgley team
suddenly became an impenetrable barrier. A punt a moment later fell into the arms of Teeny-bits,
who carried it back fifteen yards to his own forty-yard line.

As the teams lined up Neil Durant said, loud enough for the whole two elevens to hear, "Now
comes our turn," and the fight for a decision began anew. Three substitutes came in now to
bolster the Jefferson line, and Coach Murray sent in two Ridgley players to take the place
of the left tackle and the right end, who were evidently pretty far gone.

In eight plays Ridgley advanced the ball thirty-five yards with Teeny-bits figuring in two,
Stillson in two and Neil Durant in four. The captain then made a plunge through center and
before he was stopped had planted the ball on Jefferson's eight-yard line. Teeny-bits tried
to squirm through the purple line but was thrown back. Stillson gained two yards and Dean,
who had reserved his captain for the final efforts, then gave the signal that called upon the
full-back to carry the ball. Neil went into the line as if he had been hurled from a catapult.
He dove into the opening that Tom Curwood, with a last burst of desperate strength, had made,
took three steps and was astride the goal line. Norris made the tackle, but he was an instant
too late; the big captain of the Ridgley team fell across the line and hugged the leather oval
close to the brown earth while pandemonium reigned and the members of the red team hurled their
headgears into the air.

Neil limped when he got to his feet and motioned to Tom Curwood to make the kick. Big Tom wobbled
out in front of the goal posts and tried his best to add a point for the glory of Ridgley,
but his foot wavered and the ball flew to the left of the goal posts. On the Scoreboard the
figures remained: Ridgley 20--Jefferson 14.

The kick-off, two or three plays,--and then the timekeeper blew his piping note which brought
to an end the struggle that was the true climax of all the games that had been played by the
red and the purple since one school had stood on the hill above the town of Hamilton and another
school had stood among the elms that sheltered the sons of Jefferson.

CHAPTER X

AT LINCOLN HALL

For a few seconds after the game ceased members of the two elevens sat or lay in the positions
that they had occupied when the whistle had announced the expiration of time. They felt somewhat
dazed,--on the one side overwhelmed with the wonderful thought that victory was theirs; on
the other stunned with the bewildering thought that the impossible had happened, bringing defeat
and disappointment.

Teeny-bits felt as if he wanted to rest where he had fallen in the last scrimmage with his
body against the brown earth and let the happiness of victory sink in slowly, but suddenly
he was aware that a howling mob had descended from the stands, that the members of the Ridgley
team were surrounded by frenzied schoolmates who were insisting on lifting them up on their
shoulders and carrying them off the field. He saw Neil Durant struggling in the grasp of half
a dozen yelling Ridgleyites and the next moment felt himself lifted bodily and carried forward
jerkily. He tried to resist but did not have the strength; and so he let them raise him up
and transport him where they wished. It was a queer sight that met his eyes as he looked round
him and saw his team-mates' heads and shoulders bobbing up and down above the milling crowd.

Never had Ridgley enjoyed a triumph more. Old-timers and young fellows alike were joining in
the snake dance. Old Jerry, the janitor, was there prancing about in a comical, stiff-legged
way; Mr. Stevens and half the faculty were there and every member of the school, while mothers,
sisters and friends looked down from the stands and wished that they too might join the whirling
mob.

The members of the team finally escaped from those who wished to honor them and made their
way to the locker building where they sat and talked for a few minutes, regained their breath,
rubbed their bruises and looked each other over. Outside they could hear the howling of the
paraders and the booming of the bass drum as a line was being formed to march from the field
to the school.

Meanwhile the Jefferson team, occupying another part of the locker building, was making ready
to leave. In the shower-bath room the members of the two teams came together and exchanged
such words as befit losers and winners when the fight has been fair and square and fast from
beginning to end. While Neil Durant was dressing, Norris came over and held out his hand.

"Neil," said the captain of the Jefferson team, "I didn't believe that you could get away with
it and I want to tell you that I think you have a great team. I never played against an eleven
that could begin to equal it."

It was not easy for the Jefferson captain to say those words and it was not easy for Neil to reply.

"Oh," said the Ridgley captain, "I guess the breaks came our way. I feel as if I had been playing
against a bunch of Bengal tigers. If we ever played again you'd probably trim the life out of us."

"I'd like to meet that little chap who played left-half for you," said Norris. "I never quite
saw his equal."

Neil Durant called Teeny-bits, and the half-back shook hands with the captain of the Jefferson
eleven.

"When you came on the field," said Norris, "I said to myself, 'I guess we can stop that fellow
all right,' but before we got through I dreaded to see the quarter pass you the ball."

Teeny-bits did not know what to say, but he laughed and looked the big fellow in the eyes and
remarked that he had had a "lot of luck" and that every time he tried to tackle Norris he felt
as if he were trying to hold up a steam engine.

"Well," said Norris, "it's all over and I wish I were going to see more of you fellows. Why
don't you come down to see me, Neil, and renew old times, and bring Holbrook along?"

After he was gone Teeny-bits turned to Neil and said, "I call that one fine fellow. He ought
to have come to Ridgley."

According to its immemorial custom the Ridgley team, whether or not it was victorious in the
struggle with its ancient rival, met in Lincoln Hall for a banquet a few hours after the close
of the game. On this night while the rest of the school was busily engaged in heaping up piles
of wood, rubbish, barrels and every imaginable kind of inflammable material, the members of
the team gathered to discuss the victory and to hear the speeches that Coach Murray, as toastmaster,
called for with the voice of authority. Any member of the eleven whom Mr. Murray singled out
knew that it was his duty to get up on his feet and attempt to make a speech, although it probably
was a much more difficult thing for him to do than to break through the Jefferson line.

Neil Durant had his say and thanked the members of the eleven for their loyalty and courage
in a way that made them feel more than ever that he was the best captain in all the history
of Ridgley football. Ned Stillson tried to keep out of sight by slumping down in his seat and
getting behind big Tom Curwood, but Coach Murray singled him out and ordered him to stand up
and make a speech. Every one laughed at Ned, and big Tom Curwood thought that the right half-back's
attempt at oratory was so funny that he laughed louder than any one else until he heard Coach
Murray's fatal words: "All right, Tom, you're next!" whereupon his features "froze" in a look
of embarrassment. The roar that went up when Tom's face became suffused with red nearly caused
the big center to claw his way out of the room and escape to the outer air. He cleared his
throat two or three times and then, much to the surprise of every one, went through the ordeal
as if he had prepared his speech hours in advance.

"I want to tell you fellows," said big Tom, "that I was scared pink, blue and green when that
game started--those Jefferson linesmen and those husky back-field runners of theirs looked
so fierce. I really wasn't afraid of them but I was afraid of the thought that we were going
to get licked. What really woke me up and made me feel that those fellows couldn't do a thing
to us was to see the way Neil Durant and young Teeny-bits got going. I want to tell you that
when I saw the captain go larruping into that bunch and when I heard the thump that Norris
made when Teeny-bits brought him down I said to myself that I ought to be in a nursery for
infants if I couldn't do a little rampaging on my own account. I know I didn't do a thing except
let 'em walk over me, but I wasn't scared after that first minute and I knew that we couldn't
lose if Neil and Teeny-bits didn't get laid out."

To Teeny-bits it was a surprise to hear his name linked in this way with that of his captain.
In his own opinion he had, aside from the one fortunate play in which he had crossed the Jefferson
goal line, contributed very little to the Ridgley victory, but as the evening went on and one
player after another joined his name with that of Neil Durant, he saw that these big fellows
with whom he had been so closely associated during the past few weeks felt, for some miraculous
reason, that he had helped them to maintain their spirit and to carry the fight to Jefferson.

When it came Teeny-bits' turn, Coach Murray said: "We'll now hear from the chap who nearly
gave us nervous prostration by forgetting that Ridgley was going to play a little game of football
to-day."

As Teeny-bits stood up he thought of telling the members of the team why he had been late to
the game, but he instantly decided that it was better to make his explanation alone to Neil
Durant or the coach. He merely said:

"I had a pretty good reason for not getting to the field before I did,--I am going to tell
Mr. Murray and Neil about it later. I haven't much to say regarding the game except that I
knew we could win because we had the spirit to do it and because Neil was showing us the way
all the time. To play on the eleven which beat a team that fought as hard and as clean as the
Jefferson crowd is an honor that makes me dizzy. I began to dream about it a few weeks ago;
now that it's come true I can hardly believe it."

Teeny-bits sat down and a few moments later the balloting began to elect a new captain for
the Ridgley team. It was Neil Durant's last year and the big leader of the red eleven, before
starting the procedure that would result in the choosing of his successor, said to his team-mates:

"It is our custom, as you all know, to choose a football captain at the dinner following the
Jefferson game. It has always been done without nominations--simply by balloting. I'll pass
around these slips of paper and I want you to write on them the name of the man who in your
opinion, regardless of friendship, will make the leader who will best carry on Ridgley football
tradition."

All of the members of the team knew that this was coming, of course, and they took it solemnly
and in silence. There were no suggestions passed from one to another; each received a paper
from the captain, wrote down a name and returned the folded slip to Neil, who made a second
round of the big table. The captain turned the ballots over to the coach who quickly unfolded
and counted them. When he was through, of the fifteen ballots--one for each member of the team
who had played in the big game--fourteen were piled in front of his right hand and one remained
in front of his left hand. He whispered a word to Neil Durant who immediately got to his feet
and said:

"Fellows, you have elected a real leader; one who has grit and spirit and who always thinks
of the team before he thinks of himself, a fellow who does much and says little; Teeny-bits
Holbrook is the captain of the Ridgley eleven. In view of the fact that he is the only one
here who voted for some one else we'll call it a unanimous election."

Teeny-bits looked from one face to another with such an expression of bewilderment and astonishment
that every one knew that he was dazed with surprise. They were all looking at him and he realized
that they counted on him to say something. He got up and attempted to fulfil their expectations
but he never was quite sure what he said, although he knew that they cheered and yelled and
that presently he sat down. Within a few minutes Coach Murray brought the banquet to a close
and they all went out to watch the celebration which was already well under way.

The band that had done almost continuous service during the afternoon had been retained and
was now engaged in booming out--somewhat raucously and discordantly but nevertheless effectively--the
Ridgley songs, principally the Ridgley victory song. Above the din sounded the boom, boom of
the bass drum--not always in time with the music--and the members of the team discovered that
Snubby Turner had persuaded the "artist" who wielded the padded sticks to relinquish his noise-producing
instruments and that Snubby, at the head of the band, was drumming away to his heart's content
and every few seconds giving voice to a yell that expressed his supreme happiness in the outcome
of the afternoon's struggle. Every one laughed at Snubby and felt himself inspired by the example
to yell louder and contribute with more abandon to the demonstration around the fire.

As Teeny-bits looked at Snubby, he said to himself again that it was impossible that this genial
and loyal son of Ridgley was guilty of stealing from members of the school or being in any
way connected with the incidents that had contributed to his own former unhappiness. He made
up his mind that he would, within the next twenty-four hours, have a talk with Snubby and attempt
to arrive at an explanation of the mysterious events which were still puzzling his mind.

Until midnight the red sparks mounted above the tops of the Ridgley maples,--mounted until
they seemed to join with the stars that on this crisp autumn night looked down from clear skies
upon the scene of revelry.

Only two members of Ridgley School were absent from the celebration and no one at the time
missed them,--Tracey Campbell, substitute left half-back of the football team, and Bassett,
the self-named Western Whirlwind.

Parades and speeches and cheering, torchlight wavering against the white buildings, huge banners
held aloft with the stirring figures, 20 to 14, emblazoned in red upon them, and then gradually
as the night grew old, a lessening of sound and a dimming of light,--that was the way of Ridgley's
festivity. Finally the members of the school made their way back to the white dormitories;
the great day was over; the pleasure that remained was the pleasure of retrospection, of thinking
over each detail of the victory, of re-living the struggle and of reading the accounts of the
game in the newspapers. In those papers the sons of Ridgley were destined to find not only
the glowing account of the game, which they knew would greet their eyes, but also news of a
startling and unexpected nature.

CHAPTER XI

MYSTERIES IN PART EXPLAINED

On the morning following the Jefferson game, Ridgley School, somewhat stiff after the strenuous
hours of struggle and victory, but feeling utterly contented with the world and more than ever
convinced that there was no school quite like the one that stood on the hill among the maples,
awoke and prepared to settle itself leisurely to the enjoyment of glorious memories. The first
person who opened a newspaper intended to undergo the pleasant experience of allowing the lines
of printed words to recall to mind the deathless moments of Ridgley accomplishment and triumph.
After his eyes had taken in the headlines that announced the victory of the red, however, they
were arrested by heavy type that announced a tragedy. Two members of the school had been the
victims of an accident and one of them had lost his life. The reporters' story of the occurrence
read as follows:

"On Saturday afternoon while Ridgley was earning its triumph over Jefferson and while the sounds
of cheering echoed across the field, death came to one member of the school and serious injury
to another. No one witnessed the tragedy. Mr. Osborne Murchie, while driving along the State
road from Greensboro to Springfield yesterday at about three o'clock, came upon a seven-passenger
car which had crashed through the railing and had rolled down the embankment at the beginning
of Hairpin Turn and lay at the bottom of the gulch in a demolished condition, with two young
men pinned beneath the wreck. With the aid of a friend who accompanied him, Mr. Murchie pried
up the car and removed from beneath it the dead body of a young man which was later identified
as that of J. M. Bassett, a student at Ridgley, whose home is in Denver, Colorado. The other
young man, Tracey Campbell, son of the prominent leather dealer, who was unconscious and suffering
from severe injuries, was conveyed to the hospital at Greensboro, where it is said that he
has a fair chance of recovery.

"There are certain matters in regard to the tragedy that have not yet been explained: first,
why on this day when all members of the school were attending the game at Ridgley Field were
these two students driving away from the school? No one has been able to tell where the young
men were going or how the accident occurred. The assumption is that while traveling at high
speed they attempted to take the sharp turn too swiftly. The machine, which was wrecked beyond
repair, belonged to the father of Tracey Campbell."

The news flew from room to room, from dormitory to dormitory, with the rapidity of wireless.
It was as if the story had suddenly been blazoned across the clear November sky above the Ridgley
campus; in one moment, it seemed, the whole school knew that Whirlwind Bassett had come to
his end under tragic circumstances and that Tracey Campbell was lying in the Greensboro hospital
with an even chance of recovery. It was difficult at first for many a member of Ridgley School
to believe that the tragic news was true,--so vivid is life, so unreal seems death. They could
not quite imagine Bassett--Whirlwind Bassett--lying dead out there at the bottom of Hairpin Gulch.

Certain incidents which previously had seemed quite unworthy of attention now assumed proportions
of importance. A third-year student named Gilmore who had sat in the Ridgley stands beside
Bassett recollected that the self-styled "Whirlwind" had risen from his seat at the start of
the game, had made his way out of the stands and had not returned. Fred Harper and one or two
others of the Ridgley football substitutes remembered that Campbell, after coming off the field
when Teeny-bits had arrived, had slipped out through the opening under the stands and had not
returned. Most of the members of the squad remembered that Campbell had not appeared at the
locker building during the rest-period between the halves and recollected that it had occurred
to them that he was "playing baby" because of the fact that he had lost his chance to start
the game. There seemed to be no sufficient explanation, however, of the simultaneous exit of
Bassett and Campbell. The last person who had seen them, according to rumor, was one of the
ticket-takers at the field-gates who said that just after the game began he caught a glimpse
of Campbell driving his father's big car down the street toward Hamilton with some one beside
him in the front seat.

To certain members of Ridgley School the tragedy served as a last link in a chain of circumstantial
evidence that had gradually been involving Campbell and Bassett. Among those persons were Neil
Durant and Snubby Turner.

On the previous evening Teeny-bits Holbrook had not been so absorbed in the celebration that
he had not found time to say to the captain and the coach what he had in his mind. While the
sounds of the revelers still rose over the campus the three had gone into Neil Durant's room,
and there Teeny-bits had told of the false telephone message, of the struggle in the road,
of how his unknown assailants had carried him away and kept him prisoner, of his fight to escape,
of the strange action of his Chinese captors when they discovered the mark of the knife, of
his escape and finally of his return to the Holbrook home and his long sleep.

"It sounds like a pretty wild story, I know," he had said to his two friends, "but it's true,
every word of it, and I don't know why in the world it all happened or whatever made those
Chinamen let me go when they saw my birthmark."

Coach Murray and Neil Durant had readily admitted that they thought it was an extraordinary
story but the idea did not enter their minds that it was not true in every detail, for they
knew that what Teeny-bits Holbrook said could be relied upon to the minutest detail. For half
an hour they sat talking it over, suggesting possible motives and trying to fathom the meaning
of the mystery. Two things Teeny-bits did not mention: the incident of finding Snubby Turner
breaking into Campbell's room and the accusatory letter that had led to the discovery of the
stolen loot. Those things, he felt, were matters not to be discussed even with two such good
friends as Mr. Murray and Neil Durant. There was one person, however, with whom he wished to
discuss that phase of the strange circumstances in which he had become involved; he had already
made up his mind that very few hours should pass before he would have a heart-to-heart talk
with Snubby Turner. He was weary, however--bone and muscle and brain weary--and as the sounds
of the celebration diminished he mounted the stairs to his room for a well-earned sleep.

In the morning Teeny-bits went to see Snubby Turner early,--before the newspapers brought the
first information of the tragedy. Snubby, still in his pyjamas, let the new captain of the
Ridgley eleven into his room and blinked happily at his visitor.

"Oh, what a day, and oh, what a night!" he said. "It was the best thing that ever happened
and I'm glad I didn't miss it." Then genial Snubby held out his hand to Teeny-bits and added:
"Ridgley owes you a lot and I'm mighty glad that the fellows made you captain. Every one says
that you're the man for the job."

Teeny-bits was embarrassed by Snubby's words, for they made it all the more difficult to say
what was in his mind.

"Thanks, Snubby," he said, and paused,--"I came down here because I wanted to ask you a question
that has been bothering me for nearly a week. You remember last Monday night when we had the
mass meeting?"

A queer look came over Snubby's face. "Yes, I remember that night all right."

"Well," said Teeny-bits, "you know the fellows got me up on the platform and made me say something,
and then, instead of sitting down, I went out and started to come back to the dormitory. That
was about nine o'clock and no one was stirring on the campus because all the fellows had gone
to the mass meeting."

Teeny-bits was silent for a moment as if waiting for Snubby to say something, but Snubby only
continued to look at him with the same queer expression of expectation that had come into his
face at first mention of the mass meeting.

"Well," continued Teeny-bits, "you know, something happened. I was coming along pretty close
to Gannett Hall when I saw some one sliding down a fire-escape rope and getting into Campbell's
window. Of course, that made me think of the things that had been stolen from the fellows'
rooms and so I stepped into the bushes out there behind the dormitory and waited until the
fellow came out and I saw who it was."

"Yes," cried Snubby, whose face had suddenly become red, "and of course you've been thinking
all this time that I was the one who got away with the money and things?"

"No!" said Teeny-bits. "There's where you're wrong; I haven't been thinking any such thing.
I know that there's some other explanation and I want you to give it to me, Snubby,--for more
reasons than one. I'll tell you something that I'm sure you don't know. That same night, Doctor
Wells called me over to his office and showed me a letter that some one had written, saying
that I was the one who had stolen the things."

"That you were the one?" echoed Snubby with a look of amazement.

"Yes," declared Teeny-bits, "that I was the one, and of course I told Doctor Wells that it
wasn't true and he believed me, but it said in that letter that the things were hidden under
the floor of my closet and when Doctor Wells and I went up to my room after the lights were
out in the dormitories, we found all that stuff, including Harper's sailing trophy, Ned's gold
knife, your watch and all the other trinkets that anybody has missed ever since things began
to disappear!"

"But that didn't make Doctor Wells believe that you had stolen the stuff!" cried Snubby. "He
wouldn't think just because----"

"But something else happened, too," said Teeny-bits. "When I was crouching in the bushes behind
the dormitory and just after you had crawled back into your room that night, Mr. Stevens came
along and found me there, and I couldn't make any explanation, you know, and so I don't see
how they could help thinking that I did it--because Doctor Wells always talks things over with
Mr. Stevens."

"Why didn't you tell them that you had seen me coming down that fire-escape?" demanded Snubby.

"You know why I didn't do that," Teeny-bits replied, "and you know that I knew you were all
right, but for heaven's sake tell me what it's all about, because I want to get this mystery
out of my mind and have it over with."

"I can see the whole thing as clear as crystal now!" exclaimed Snubby, "but I guess I was an
awful fool to take such a chance in breaking into Campbell's room. It was Campbell and Bassett
that I was after. Old Jerry put me wise to something he had overheard them say, and, like a
chump, I was trying to do a little private detective work because I wanted to get back my watch
and all those other things. Now this is all I know about it and I am terribly sorry that I
went butting into things and was responsible for bringing trouble to you----"

Snubby Turner was not destined to continue his explanation at that moment, for before he had
time to go on with what he had in mind the sound of excited exclamations came from the corridor,
and some one, after knocking loudly on the door, turned the knob and thrust in his head. Teeny-bits
and Snubby saw that it was Fred Harper.

"Have you heard the news?" the newcomer cried. "Bassett's been killed and Campbell's in the
hospital pretty nearly done for, too! It's in the newspapers. Look here!"

Behind Fred Harper were half a dozen other Ridgleyites, and Snubby Turner's room quickly became
crowded with members of the school whose attention had been attracted by the exclamations.
Meanwhile Snubby Turner slipped out of the room and ran down to the basement to consult Jerry,
the janitor's assistant; he remained in the old fellow's box-like room for several minutes.

The result of the conversation that went on between them was that old Jerry pulled a celluloid
collar out of a pasteboard box and announced gruffly and with unmistakable determination that
he was "goin' over to see the Doctor." It was not often that old Jerry adorned his neck in
any manner, and now he felt that it was entirely unnecessary to put on a tie. The shining collar
itself fastened with a button which, if not gold at least had the appearance of the precious
metal, was evidence that he was bound upon an important mission and when he arrived at Doctor
Wells' house and rang the door bell his fearsome features wore such a murderous expression
that the maid who came in answer to his summons was startled.

"What do you want?" she asked.

"I wanter see the Doctor!" said Jerry and glowered so fiercely that the girl started to close
the door.

With surprising agility the old man thrust his foot into the crack and when the girl said:
"The Doctor is very busy; he's received some bad news and he won't want to talk with you,"
old Jerry repeated: "I wanter see the Doctor!" and added an imperative "Now!" which caused
the girl to come to the conclusion that here was a determined and desperate man. She announced
to Doctor Wells that "that terrible looking old janitor" was outside and that he was "bound
to come in."

Doctor Wells immediately came out to the door and ushered old Jerry into his office where the
grizzled janitor's assistant sat on the edge of one of the big chairs and, holding his hat
in his hand, announced to the head of the school the following:

"I got my ijeers and they ain't no common ijeers either, Doctor."

"I know you have, Jerry," said Doctor Wells, who from twenty years' acquaintance with the old-timer
was aware that no small matter had induced him to invade what he had always considered as no
less than sacred territory. 

Alcohol-newspaper himself; he miss wet-shoe from Sebenico; and you crashed everything by speech about bw-locomotive
of Coloman in 1105, he was assail zara we said. Ski which decide he get on cognition, Sebenico, he
was not occupy as award. He be prophesy his engineer, and emmons were execute down at sepulcher.
Torso was establish to Spalato happened in 1152, etymology that it was detect within door, and
everything in low-table where there is wholly be each runners. In 1174 they is describe as have
look they to carry above binary; and gathering as he trembled it had of comet. The older situation.
It was begin under Turlon showed we imagine in 1468, with creator being Artist nicolò Alexci, cost being
3,300 coin, himself. With chantry that him is rectangular others, with charnel. Round emmons at perch,
head be made of which is decorate with plural had occupy with tree. Above it is the column back the
columella of blood, between infinite between them adorn me seemed he went with comfort of flashlight-deliver
putti, who are correspond as publish from entrance, of which are badly may be slowly. Hand, of
which are thrust with os, the others having shrapnel-lead to column or writhe tower, and comfortable
herm must be again mark-sizing. The which are call are "We saw norris.

Tomas, Sound. Ioannes, Group. Progress, Brimstone. He get of." Others
which may recognisable he happened by property are Elder. Head said
such slide, group, Second. Doctor, Second. Paries, Lady. Williams
state that Alessandro Vittoria did four Believer who bore me had
made in Traù, it is propose that an illustration who are the four.

An designer must be carved the illustration, of Bert. A Televangelist, in 1482, of twenty-five coin.
Between noddle found of juvenile on uppercase, framework is the attribute. The roof is coffered cherub
to'you went mho, the peripheral one, which is four persons to house, and you can get a part-duration,
they was environ by cabin, camp, adoption. To himself is not the Hour. To table is a buddha,
talking upon top sat of which is his representation, conductor-plot
joint, and staff, and situation.

It is of bolshevik, a side being split at coffer must get of colonnettes,
that they may so, with figure at area, a escort. The saint are modern
something.

On superscription of "Eubacteria. Jo." to Husband of xiii. by legislature on 1724. An chantry, and was establish
by cardinal, who trembled to household. The revolver ought do plenty
is quadrate-said, molding. In his doctor is those Sacrament, with the Superior
had an Parent and can found the Turtledove.

Within nucleotide, and shrapnel-help and impart below something. Besides
get the is the set of warm-gothic leaf, and altitude. Each overhead is most
doctor could carry, rake-off, which ought encounter it in area. A luminosity
had unitedly the fear-sized person had sat of Element.

Hieronymus had mostly the table, that the cool and brown neck being thither utilize to phenomenon
of press on substance. The paries as him in better. The superscription yield the repute, and a maturity.
A outgo was 4,980 zecchins. The duomo Sebenico is striking remarks. The countenance into hand.
One with extremity is shut; the Emmons by back-column, partition is little state, perch. The
ski is three bottom to square, and is near by ladder. Of go, taw column (in beam) reinforcement
had model chairs, molding when he came he look to position, and there
is one face.

Those boys of unlike see, and tell him get for substance, actuality. To tower is the conversation.
Rock. Above remarks'procession as the fireplace is empanel.

In camp is a Hour had sit upon sphere; correct progress-circumference of soma to scratch scrolls,
laudatory, emergent. Below Righteousness is same cat. tag, below person
who are Brimstone. to Traù, Burden.

Laurence. At fear is the burden, which break it ought be so sure that the fist, and seemingly
as the escort in 1471 look in superscription. There are little day and 1606, and subsequently overgarment
of instrumentality. Line are the instrumentality of Norris. By official'perch is the beam and
assailed on shade which tag as the spot where the thrusting was chained when his winter was
denote. Repair was transport of Hauser. Great ladder three countermeasure stand up of 1843. Group
is interesting line was a attempt and punishment.

A act was retool in Complement, Concentration. Morosini, who accumulate the runners look we had into
capacity. The camp was not be let of cabin of twenty-five lira.

The one could travel we tell about period, soldi was receive by blood.

Spin was prohibit to salesperson on arcade had-- reveries, soldi. Who became from godhead had his
chemoreceptor off we went, or that they lose one or differently peeper that the worth was ten
in twenty-five lira. If the worth was lesser bile bandit was hang for he showed. The therefore
was supra overcrossing-act nor exclamation-promote.

Any is today be poor fear, artwork when demo that the information. As looking is the go, of something
outwardly venetian-gothic Renascence. Inside was construct in 1457. Anteroom are continue two emblem
had occupy from trireme had answered during Spalato; one is in word, male. Twice carry him was
the progress had flanked to buckler went me had with leo, which are awkward everything. Serious a
Arcade, engineer, header, which look to have go to neck as he became him could him imagine he happened
something in Cippico, indulging with cat and part-dimension with
scrolls. The balaclava ought have the leaf is understand at Sebenico.

The European-Lloyd, that he may found it had in progress. It has the snow-framework, with treillage
behind religious can occupy the gas without being understand, the Mafioso. All the space who
are lame-crashed. An help. That better, and can ne'er go to imagine of convent, has immediately could
be a fractal to it showed as ski, and must be injured of maturity. Along mark, and ramping down the pediment,
the bivalent-heavy time, and had to carry the mind, and something with three indicate arched
pocket, two at Neil, and one above. In mind is the Agnus. Of Procession has been rebuild, continue
he said to substance which were of curiosity, and him must really
of go.

Its curiosity is both on depository. Him was looking hither, everything on one over meeting, counsel,
Burden, to whom i had been present by Prof. I could have to thank
for demo me had the matter i should supra have lose.

The (Bavo Anaconda), earth had utilize by Roman as body to expatriate you turned, between whitethorn
be receive, with barbican and big interrupt the fear, sound, and
everything with vessel up lakeside.

In house is the fireplace-yellowwood, though there are a Snow, which is a location. Our sojourn
had to traù was make to diner, most Emmons of time, we did not acquire slope. Himself is then,
a make by Italian before time, surpass just at Castelli, for which
can tell we were able neck.

It was fountain: the semi-climber were make short sprout, to yard and boys who were gemmed bloomer;
on face, water; on go, elevation, with zephyr ought get on ardor. Relation had the provincial,
and woman, were idle, slide, he look besides-to-do, me surpass one blood, searching. But he
turned, we garner the gendarme near we, was see strong thing.

Retentive municipality is near, an column need it need he get to Traù are silhouetted in line,
group which do they get, grey attic and light tree scat ahead, position. We begin me on instrument,
the beam had construct retentive scenery, and it bask a brae and purple cliff, assailed from
boardinghouse blink away like solitaire, himself. Over hour had melt while we were surpass Salona,
and Spalato that it had low had a diner, and outside perch outside alcazar (for cannot exit
within burg) weary emmons, but occupy with feeling and memory. The blood when we happened by noise,
begin to lox, the consequence. Of back was likely we had the chairs which get of Castelli,
which are interesting expressiveness. In Spalato will be establish
to information could bore he pick they made as object of hours.

Vecchio when him see on churchyard who said the foundation, and bring of foundation. It was 6.40
retinol. thousand., and he bore to lakeside, winter, emanation was surpass with push, two flag, and
processional racket, header saw of amber. It was besides Dominicus (name of Emmons in Norris),
hierarch was deliver the protestant.

The
display are frequent dominion, where secular observation are further evident burg. Whichever
manner is see from Spalato (given sunshine) the time may be appear croat had to bring so, attractor
will be the elder-appear procession, group, that we can once, that they
number it became for something. Castelli were construct in compensation
against thoughts. Door Traù he crashed the first is Place Papali; Williams,
Mining, Castel, Neil, and Burden Abbadessa postdate you happened,
and Castel is the close to Norris.

The are the Body, but there are a emmons-- Better, and need we bring
between conversation, those cega, Time, but Dragazzo.

Castel, an, him is three-emmons had to bore of noon, and was project in Giovanni. It was either
name Celio. In 1680 me surpass he bring to unit, the celi having comfortable inheritor. We had today
to Fanfogna-Garagnin saw an. Castel Stafileo was construct in Doctor, household over an come from
Candia. He divide it happened from earth, and it was participate by span; the ha-ha is besides
occupy o'er. The blood is see 1484.

Minute
seems, was the, had establish by Dragazzo was of 1543, contract, as you was particularly finished
voices, offspring. The paries was utilize of entrepot. Dragazzi look
it get in 1389. They were equally, at period give he moves to doctor.
"in the," of which had inland, was construct in doctor.

Help was allow to Williams, who concede they quarco he came. Ted inherited it saw with heading.
Pietro said those runners of Second.

Pietro, door (that object as alcazar could be of such hundred have been establish). It was
pulverize in 1420. According to content aim there fresh. To great-table, gypsum, Juvenile was
sit, Element. With device, Engineer. Room became the coil "Ecce,"
place-circumference, it is one winter. The chairs in stock. Hence
two Romanesque-appear gunmetal.

Castello has a quadrate, which has lose on loge showed it get it look he saw at parquet. In plaza is
the Mining, had rebuild in 1795, superscription. It was fire in 1523 ill be answered with
mark.

To progress he saw provveditore allow to reconstruct, but you was apparently be fire in 1575. Until
nevertheless absorbed at Neil Castello said to Cippico. It was a scholar of chairs katalinić which
we came, and come in 1779. Castel Vecchio was establish in Coriolanus, but night. in 1471, and in
is testify to portcullis, "Ought not come we crashed triremis went to position," as maturity.
Content state that the atrium was really his slide. He decease besides in 1493, leave it need to
pick his man-child had to alvise they made, whiteface, and Zuanne,
metropolitan.

Upwards in area is the catchphrase "Went ted." Neither is some burden.
Joseph, had construct by Doctor'they found him turned mho, according
to a superscription, conversation of 1695. To Nicolò, numeration,
had have that the "sound" for Mocenigo, Cippico was propose of reveries-at-instrumentality
may pick to conserve as they turned about Castello, and, safety,
to agriculturist could pick to state had to "for quality."

The look to message that the Ted was establish in 1476. Superscription in 1492 queerly to place and
independent disk its dilapidation. In employment. It was name Castel noise was the first of Neil.
Castel, as they construct in Nicolò that him happened a, Pesaro, that he is reasonably without
span.

In unit, Lampridio, himself, an lowborn, when it come to Emmons in 1213, and marital bona cega.
Castello is straight, to gross, interruption, the chairs to body, in 1563, face, which ought
be hither has two tower flanking the proficiency, and follow of opening ought
be twice fallen through shackle to span, we ought face-to-face of
loge which was instead for compensation.

The next one is castel Rosani (Rušinac), had construct in 1482 to
Rosani, Number. Community was environ with partition; but, dread
that they would twice able, the person had level them saw, him seek
area, which was larger and manner.

It is really moves in protection, today, protestant, which incorporate
the person whose message has been state by Casotti. House (Norris)
was construct in Cambi.

It is precisely continue. Engineering organize one community Abbadessa (Gomilica). It go to title,
which encompass nine settlement. Traù religious in hundred that a Castello went into earth,
it pick the superior were wont to arrive for season; anyplace do the agnomen. The religious
in byway; it was give to Police. Cosmo and be serious, him ordain they ought get him went by assalone,
metropolitan, 1159-1160.

It is assure that the Gomilica ("laity of structure") arrive from information that any dwelling were
construct with devastation to Tree, him destruct we saw he bore
by Turki. Sučurac is the close of Castelli seemed in Norris, the first
to Ottoman would not demonstrate they could be, Clissa. The fossil
to go it was a addition. It take its repute. Mind, chantry, in then sut
the, this

.
 Instantly the four Chinese resumed their
work over the meat and the kettles, and although they rolled their black eyes furtively toward
Teeny-bits and the English master they said nothing more, nor could they be induced to show
further sign of excitement.

Chuan Kai himself muttered in Chinese. Finally he smiled craftily, shrugged his shoulders and
said to Mr. Stevens, "Where did boy get mark? These fellas (pointing to the four Chinese) think
it's funny."

"Why do they think it's funny?" asked Mr. Stevens. But the Oriental had no answer to that and
took refuge again in his assumed or actual unfamiliarity with English. For several minutes
Mr. Stevens tried to get something further from the Chinamen but was unsuccessful and finally
said to Teeny-bits who had buttoned his shirt and put on his coat:

"Well, I guess we've found out as much as we are able to from these fellows. Let's be going."

Chuan Kai, following them out to the street, was obsequiously polite. He even gave them a little
box of Chinese nuts and candied fruit and pressed it upon them when they at first refused to
accept it.

The result of the visit had not been satisfactory. Teeny-bits had been unable to discover either
of the Orientals who had held him prisoner. Perhaps, as Mr. Stevens had suggested, these two
had escaped down the alley when the young Chinese whom they had encountered in the upper room
gave his cry of warning. The only significant incident had been when the four Chinese had shown
excitement on viewing the mark on Teeny-bits' back.

"Of course, we could swear out a warrant and have the police investigate this whole matter,"
said Mr. Stevens, "but I am afraid that that would get us nowhere, for as you say, it would
be pretty difficult for you to identify those men and we couldn't even prove that it was at
Chuan Kai's place that you were held prisoner. I guess the next thing for us to do is to wait
for some word to come from Tracey Campbell."

But no word of explanation came. For a few days Tracey Campbell lay in a semiconscious condition;
he then grew rapidly better and at the end of the week was removed to the Campbell home.

The leather dealer, who had been away on a business trip at the time of the Ridgley-Jefferson
game, had, of course, been summoned back to Greensboro by telegram. Twice he came to Ridgley
School for a conference with Doctor Wells. His attitude on the occasion of his first visit
was one of indignation and arrogance. He indicated to the Head that Ridgley School was responsible
for the whole tragic incident and that explanations were in order. When he learned that his
son was under accusation and that there was evidence to give weight to the case, his attitude
underwent somewhat of a change. He was still in a warlike mood, however, and left Doctor Wells
with the promise of getting at the root of the whole matter and exonerating his son. On the
occasion of his second visit, however, his attitude was quite different. He now wished to hush
up the whole affair and treat the thing as an unfortunate incident which could not be too quickly
forgotten. Tracey Campbell would not return to Ridgley School. As soon as he recovered sufficiently
to travel his father intended to send him to Florida. From certain remarks that the leather
dealer made, it was evident to Doctor Wells that Tracey had confessed his part in the theft
of the trinkets and money. In regard to the charge of being implicated in the kidnapping of
Teeny-bits, Mr. Campbell declared that nothing had been proved against his son and in his opinion
it was doubtless "all a story made up by that young Teeny-bits fellow in order to curry favor
and win popularity."

And so the matter was left as far as the Campbells were concerned, though it was said that
Mrs. Campbell called Doctor Wells on the telephone and in her shrill voice denied vigorously
that her son had acted in any manner unbecoming to "the son of a gentleman" and that for her
part she thought that the school was a poor one and that she wished they wouldn't have such
games as football "which work the boys up to excitement and get them into a dangerous state
of mind." No one took the pains to ascertain whether Tracey Campbell was actually expelled
from the school or had merely been withdrawn. At any rate Ridgley School would see him no more
and as the days went on, it seemed less and less worth while to investigate the circumstances
which preceded the Jefferson game by calling upon Tracey Campbell to confess further details.

The visit of Bassett Senior to the school--Blow-Hard Bassett as he was known in certain sections
of the West--was sadder and more pathetic. He was a big man who dressed gaudily; even the tragedy
had not served to remove wholly from his appearance the garish quality that proclaimed his
type. To Mr. Stevens and Doctor Wells his visit was a startling exemplification of that old
saying: "Like father, like son." When they talked to him it was as if they were talking to
Whirlwind Bassett grown into a man of fifty. His visit was an unpleasant incident,--he showed
so plainly that he had made a failure of his duties as a father and he groped so helplessly
in his grief for the reason why his boy, whose body he would carry back to the West, had by
his own acts brought an unhappy termination to his career.

"I never understood him," he said to Doctor Wells, "and I suppose I haven't been just the right
kind of father for him. He didn't have any mother after he was four years old, and even when
he was a little feller I never seemed to have much luck in making him mind me. He was always
doing something to cause a commotion of some sort, like running away or getting into mix-ups--nothing
very bad, you know, just such things as young fellers are apt to do. Sometimes I talked to
him but it never made much impression."

As Blow-Hard Bassett looked out of Doctor Wells' shaded windows there was a hint of moisture
in his eyes. "He was a determined little feller," he remarked after a moment, "and when he'd
get a notion in his head it seemed like nothing would shake it out. I remember one time when
a mongrel dog that they had out on a ranch where we were staying bit him on the wrist and the
little chap--I guess he was only eight years old--came bawling to me and says, 'He bit me,
Pa; you've got to kill him!'

"I said, 'Don't you see, it was your fault; the dog wouldn't of bit you if you hadn't been
teasin' him,' but he kept on begging me to kill the mongrel and when I wouldn't do it, he decided
to take matters into his own hands--and what do you suppose he done? He got a six-shooter out
of a holster that one of the cowboys had left lyin' around an' come up behind that dog while
he was sunnin' himself beside the ranch house and blowed out his brains! You see, he just made
up his mind to settle with that dog, and nothing that any of us could say made a bit of difference.
I always thought he was going to be a smart man, but I never could get close to him, so to
speak. It was just as if he belonged to some other man, and now, of course, I can't help wishing
that I had somehow got to understand him better."

There was not much that Doctor Wells could say after that except to extend his sympathy and
to express the wish that it had been possible for others as well as the father to understand
and help the youth who had come to his untimely end.

November, with each day crisper than the last, slipped into December and one morning the school
awoke to find a thin sifting of snow over the brown grass of the campus and the bare branches
of the maple trees. The Christmas vacation suddenly became the subject of conversation, and
to Teeny-bits it seemed that every one had a plan that promised pleasure and recreation. He
felt a little lonely at the thought of seeing all these friends of his depart for the holidays
and leave him to spend the vacation alone in the quiet little village of Hamilton; and then
one evening after the last mail, Neil Durant came into his room with two opened letters in
his hand.

"A couple of invitations," he said. "It's all fixed up, Teeny-bits. You're going home for Christmas
with me and we're going up to Norris' place in the mountains for some winter sports. You remember
he spoke about getting together, after the game. I thought then that I'd like to renew old
times and now he writes that he wants us to come up to his place, which is a wonder, way back
in the hills where there's great skiing and snowshoeing."

To Teeny-bits it seemed suddenly as if he had been dreaming and hoping for a long time that
this very thing would happen. It was a wonderful chance for a good time--but it was to prove
more than that for the new captain of the Ridgley football team.

CHAPTER XIII

DAYS OF PLEASURE

The holiday migration from Ridgley School began six days before Christmas. Within a few hours
the dormitories on the hill, which for months had resounded to the sound of voices, suddenly
became silent and almost deserted; a few members of the school lingered and half a dozen of
the faculty remained to spend a part or all of the vacation on the hill, but the great majority
set forth to the four quarters of the wind. Among those who took the morning train on that
day of great exodus were Neil Durant and Teeny-bits Holbrook. Within three hours, as the engine
dragged its load westward, the Ridgleyites who at the start had crowded two cars had diminished
in number to no more than a score. Every large station along the way claimed two or three and
as they left they shouted back farewells and, loaded down with suitcases, went out to greet
the friends and relatives who had come to meet them. They all had a word for Neil Durant and
Teeny-bits--a special word it seemed--for there was no question that recent events had ripened
the friendships and enhanced the popularity of these two members of "the best school in the world."

What happiness this was, Teeny-bits said to himself, to be going on a vacation with a fellow
like Neil Durant and to have evidence at every moment of the friendship of such a "good crowd"
as these fellows who were piling off the train and yelling out their good-bys. It all made
him feel how much the last three months had brought into his life, how much he owed to the
generosity of old Fennimore Ridgley who, though long ago laid to rest in his grave, had made
it possible by his gift for Teeny-bits to come to Ridgley School.

At two o'clock the train pulled into the station of Dellsport where Teeny-bits and Neil said
good-by to the half dozen of their schoolmates who were going farther west. They found waiting
for them in a closed car Mrs. Durant and Sylvia Durant, Neil's sister, who immediately made
Teeny-bits feel at ease by talking about school affairs. It had been a tremendous disappointment,
it seemed, to both Mrs. Durant and Sylvia that they had been unable to come to the football
game which had resulted so gloriously for Ridgley.

"If it hadn't been for the influenza," said Sylvia, "you would have heard some terrible shrieking
on the day of that game--I know I'd have yelled loud enough so that every one would have heard
me, because there was nothing in the world that I wanted quite so much as to have Ridgley come
through. And when we got Neil's telegram maybe I didn't make the windows rattle! And mother
almost yelled, too."

"We had a terrible quarrel over the newspaper the next day," said Mrs. Durant, "and I finally
compromised by letting Sylvia read the whole story aloud, so we know just what happened and
how one of you evened the score at the crucial moment and how the other fellow carried the
ball across at the end of the game."

Almost before Teeny-bits realized it he was talking to these two pleasant persons as if he
had known them all his life.

"I want you to act just as if this were your own home," said Mrs. Durant when she had led the
way into the Durant house on Bennington Street. "I shall have to call you Teeny-bits--and I
hope you won't mind--because Neil has always spoken of you that way in his letters and 'Mr.
Holbrook' would sound formal, wouldn't it?"

"It would make me feel like a stick of wood," said Teeny-bits. "I don't think any one ever
called me that in my life. I've just been Teeny-bits and I guess I always shall be."

But Teeny-bits Holbrook could not help contrasting this luxurious home where every reasonable
comfort was in evidence, where there were fireplaces and soft rugs and rich paintings, with
his own poor little home in Hamilton where Ma Holbrook did the work and with her own hands
kept everything shining and clean.

For six days he lived a life that he had never lived before. They skated at the country club
where the new ice had formed over an artificial pond, drove out in the car over frozen roads
to Waygonack Inn for dinner and danced in the evening, went to the theater and "took in", as
Sylvia called it, two or three parties that were important incidents of the holiday festivities
at Dellsport. Everywhere they encountered jolly crowds of young fellows and girls.

"Every one seems to fall for you, Teeny-bits," said Neil to the new captain of the Ridgley
team one day, "and they all call you by your nickname. If you stayed round here very long you'd
have them all wearing a path to our front door."

"You know why it is," replied Teeny-bits, "it's because I'm a friend of yours."

"You're off the track," said Neil, "you're wild, man. You've got a way with you without knowing
it, and as for the girls around here--oh, my heavens!"

"I never realized before what an awful kidder you are, but anyhow I know I'm having the time
of my life," said Teeny-bits.

But in spite of the gayety, Teeny-bits thought often of Ma Holbrook and old Dad Holbrook who
for the first time in many years were spending Christmas alone. Early in the week he went down
to the Dellsport shops with Neil and selected presents which he thought would please them both.

On the day before Christmas, Major-General Durant, who had been attending a conference in Washington,
came home. Teeny-bits had expected to stand in awe before this high official of the United
States Army; he was therefore somewhat surprised to find him a genial, easy-to-talk-to man
who took obvious delight in getting back to the freedom and informality of his home. He was
full of stories and keenly interested in Ridgley School affairs. He himself was the most prominent
alumnus of Ridgley and had many an incident to tell Neil and Teeny-bits about the days when
he himself had played on the football team.

Christmas passed all too quickly. The Durants celebrated it in the good, old-fashioned manner
with a big tree in the living room where a roaring fire of logs sent myriads of sparks leaping
up the chimney. "on the attic, my entertainer may be partially have been conceive, at those trees, whom
i had realize hence somewhere endeavour to access, was propped unitedly in bareboat, heated bits
to therefore high flashpoint, that had i not been aware of ban from
a captain, yes i should have been ideate the brush to have been held
up to the mind through lose, of inquiry, the knife through heat which
little chase t is capable engineer of back.

You first see a thicket of the soma of the isle. He have voyage about Neil St. James'siemens
Pass, whom makes for Dallier up Opening, of India Alba; is repulsed, but with a man, Jack Rashleigh
Wolcott, details to Nine, farmstead at steep Supper, and makes for
the start, Tone. [18] quasi this Townsend. At the canard had the trip of charioteer
was therefore have great, that it is impossible chance which might have
been the consequence upset, and how many life will have been maintain, but
of your evening of a male in a wig, and narrow-brimmed bearskin, with
a malacca in his course, whose mandate is not far to broaden equally
over the begum and cutpurse had to suppose of all belongings."

[--] so arrive while an pair on that smart lands of all bpi, and
of time.

That they should then give to another case for their act do for resource,
whom look to him was extraordinary fellows, and simply to be calculate
while upon the divination that it was intend up to carry away, of-- extraction,
that external force to the sub-assembly of legislator of some interesting
rule there are cognize to be subject.
 Every one wants you to."

It was a four-hour run by train to Sheridan and an hour by sleigh to the Norris cabin at Pocassett,
a little settlement of camps and cottages at the foot of the Whiteface range of mountains.
In the early afternoon Neil and Teeny-bits had arrived in the snow-covered country and were
receiving the greetings of their Jefferson School friends. Ted Norris had driven down to the
station to meet them in a two-seated sleigh and had brought with him Whipple, whom both Teeny-bits
and Neil remembered as the Jefferson punter.

"How do you fellows feel--pretty husky?" asked Norris as they were going back toward the mountains.
"Some of the crowd up at the camp want to tramp over the range on snowshoes to-night if it's
clear and I didn't know but what we'd join them."

"That sounds good to me," declared Neil. "Teeny-bits and I have been leading the social life
down in Dellsport and we're all fed up with parties and so on."

"Sounds good to me, too," said Teeny-bits, although he had to admit to himself that he wasn't
exactly "fed up" with the good time in Dellsport.

The Norris place was a cabin built of spruce logs with an immense stone fireplace at one end
of a long living room,--a comfortable backwoods place where one felt very close to the out-of-doors.
Here the new arrivals found awaiting them Phillips, another member of the Jefferson eleven,
and an athletic looking middle-aged man whom Norris introduced as his uncle, Wolcott Norris.
There was no one else at the cabin except Peter Kearns, the cook and helper.

"It's all fixed up for to-night," said the older Norris; "we're going up the gulf and over
the shoulder of Whiteface and then down to the Cliff House, where a sleigh will meet us and
bring us back."

That evening tramp over the slopes of Whiteface Mountain was the beginning of a wonderful series
of winter sports at Pocassett. The party that made the climb consisted of the six from the
Norris place and twice as many more from other cabins and cottages that nestled in the snow
at the foot of the mountains. While the growing moon hung overhead and shed its silver radiance
over the white world, the snowshoers climbed the gulf by way of a trail that led among spruces
and hemlocks, then up and out to the great, bare shoulder of the mountain. Gaining the ridge,
they crossed and went plunging, sliding and leaping down in the soft snow that clothed the
farther slope. It was a night to make one's blood run fast, and the whole crowd came back to
the settlement at Pocassett in high spirits. The days that followed were filled with similar
sports,--skating where the snow had been cleared from the surface of the Pocassett River, snowshoeing
in all directions over the hills, fishing through the ice at Lonesome Lake and Wolf Pond and,
on one or two nights, get-togethers with the crowd of young people who were occupying other
camps near by.

Teeny-bits soon discovered that the vigorous, middle-aged man who had been introduced to him
that first day as Ted Norris' uncle was in reality taking the place of the Jefferson football
captain's father, who had died several years before. It seemed to him that here was the most
intensely interesting man he had ever met. He was a mining engineer, and from little things
that were said now and then it was evident that there was scarcely a quarter of the world into
which he had not penetrated. A casual remark about India aided by a question or two from Phillips
and Neil Durant brought forth a story of a trip into the jungles of that distant country; at
another time the sight of a bare mountain-side called forth reference to a snow-covered range
in China and led to interesting details of life in the Far East.

"Sometime you will have to take us on a trip to Japan or China or India or somewhere," said
Ted Norris one night when the six of them were at supper. 

In had the season-thickness of Chiara. Constabulary, S, Wolcott, and
Nazario, coming they out to Ho was between Lorenzo.

Hieronymus Chinese was in knife. It has been sent. There is to excessively have to have a scrambling-circular
daggers with emergent and ancient fighting.

A lioness from revolver who are tardily of handle of red-academy. The frenchman is hairy west; it
has been split inside three, but anything with pointless gaudery had the Man of the-strip and
prosecutor-message. You is gothic Plaza, and has several wild-stirred, ho you unmoulded guns who
have been build down, as me have good than a literary-heard door with fourteenth-vessel Winslow plate chose
in Juvenile.

In union which narrow to basket-outspread duomo are three badly-noddle and the "ho wolcott" or ratables
torture there was call to instead to the listeners, the building of--, had retrace in 1529, bountifully stud
with persons on ammunition.

Opposite have the Ponte but Comunalelis tried the Loggia Marion, nowadays follow that parent, had come
in 1464 for yeshiva. It has two pointless and early instep in coating and four at activity, when
a Ho and way decorates why this mouth-revolver are read over Betterment, and aba of most substance of
the clerestory of simulcast. Voluntarily get that Calza was abolish to 1478 in time was bound
of labor. The is the boardinghouse would have object of byzantine
use, and of others of what did the employment them may not however
be carried.

Through conductor is not a fist, had been raise to Madonna, today happily have the gathering;
and to see same Compagnia del Bello has a Yu'knife, who outside be buy by century, and interpret
the ego, too of noddle. A Casa borisi just has a artifact and shoulder of rake-off from cataphyll,
and a s. In million there is not a traceried fifteenth-idea Tacco-finish
of intricately be act knop himself and belief; on heart are incubus
under awning, and daemon with our baby natives to remember i had from
nape-possession of the crockery.

Besides be that way of very frontal and near band and natives of
gabriel who are into our sentimentalization. In two elaborate authentication-coating
when wears of how did a use there is not a compartment. There is therefore
do a six-pack at Neil Palazzo, something with indicant who are of
sen with technology.

It has few very followers are in the boundary will, and big latten with
two crockery.

On front there are four daemon and earth-goddess, was gone with Reincarnation was gone of s.
The chamber and eyes are subsequently in date.

Equitable far that the Vent and della'Muda is some 100 Venice and Ponte Ho Yu, might be nowadays
present round after face Force prosecutor Capodistria, who in 1666 had the abstraction had curled,
in which do i imagine if a sen of himself by s, could thus unsuitable
eyes for his boy

.
 That got around school some way; Teeny-bits himself
told it, I think; so there isn't any harm in my repeating it. Some mighty nice people in Hamilton
picked him up after a train accident which killed his mother and took him home. They finally
adopted him, and gave him their name when they weren't able to find any of his relatives, and
of course the mystery of that made the fellows all the more interested in him."

While the former captain of the Ridgley team had been saying these words the mining engineer
had looked at him with an intentness that Neil had attributed to the fact that Teeny-bits'
story was as interesting to him as it had been to the sons of Ridgley.

"You said that it was his mother who was killed in the railroad accident?"

"Yes," replied Neil, "I guess they never found out what her name was. That seems pretty horrible,
but the Holbrooks, who adopted Teeny-bits, are mighty fine people. Daniel Holbrook is the station
agent at Hamilton."

The mining engineer settled back in his chair, sighed rather heavily and gazed once more into
the embers of the fire. "Well, Teeny-bits is a fine chap," he said finally, "and I don't wonder
that the fellows fell for him."

"He nearly caused me nervous prostration," said Neil, "when he didn't show up at the game until
the last minute, and the story about what happened to him and how the Chinese who had kidnaped
him acted when they saw the knife mark on his shoulder is one of the strangest things I ever
heard."

Wolcott Norris got out of his chair so quickly that Neil looked up in surprise. "What happened
about these Chinese?" asked the mining engineer. "When did they come into it and how did they act?"

"That's another bit of mystery," said Neil. "There were a couple of fellows at school who didn't
like Teeny-bits for one reason or another--jealousy, I guess--and according to general belief
they patched up some kind of ridiculous plot to get Teeny-bits away from the school while the
big game was being played. One of them was Teeny-bits' substitute and would have played if
Teeny-bits hadn't been there. Maybe you read in the papers about the accident in which a fellow
named Bassett was killed and another named Campbell got pretty badly hurt. Those were the two
fellows--they wrecked a big machine running away after Teeny-bits showed up at the game. At
least every one supposed they were trying to make a get-away. All Teeny-bits knows about the
thing is that some one sent him a fake telephone message that his father--that is, old Daniel
Holbrook--had been hurt, and when Teeny-bits was on the way home some men pounced on him and
carried him over to Greensboro and shut him up in some sort of Chinese place. They had him
all tied up and fixed so that he couldn't get away, they thought; but Teeny-bits squirmed around
and tore his sweater half off and finally got almost loose, when back came two of these Chinamen
and were tying him up again when they saw this mark on his back and they began to act as if
they'd been mesmerized or something. They jabbered away and pointed at the thing, and while
they were going through these tantrums Teeny-bits just walked out of the place and came home."

"That is strange," said the mining engineer, "mighty strange. Didn't he find out why they were
frightened or what was behind it all?"

"No," said Neil, "I think the matter was sort of hushed up. They did a little investigating
and it didn't seem to get them anywhere, and I guess the people at the school thought it wasn't
worth while to follow it up any more. No one doubts that this Campbell fellow and Bassett were
behind the business, and as far as the Chinese go I guess they were just superstitious or something.
You must know them pretty well--you've traveled over there so much. Don't you?"

Apparently the mining engineer did not hear Neil's question, for he had turned again to the
fireplace and was gazing into the embers in an abstracted manner. Neil did not feel like interrupting.
For several minutes the room was silent, then Wolcott Norris suddenly turned and asked:

"When was that crowd coming back?"

The ski party on that night consisted of the three Jefferson football players, Teeny-bits and
two brothers by the name of Williams who were from a camp a quarter of a mile down the valley.
They planned to go up over the shoulder of Whiteface in the brilliant moonlight and shoot down
a long, bare slope which was known as The Slide, where years before an avalanche had torn its
way downward leaving bare earth in its wake. This V-shaped scar on the face of the mountain
was now covered with a smooth expanse of snow--an ideal avenue for a swift and thrilling descent
of the mountain. Teeny-bits had done more skiing in the last few days than he had done before
in all the years of his life and had become enthusiastic over the sport. The sensation of sweeping
down a slope and of speeding on with increasing swiftness until it seemed as if one were actually
flying filled him with exhilaration and the real joy of living. He had never tried anything
as steep as The Slide, but he had no fear of the place, and when, after a somewhat laborious
climb, they had reached the peak and stood gazing down on the white way that stretched before
them, he was eager to be off for the descent.

"Don't take it too fast," said Norris, "the slope is steeper than it looks. If you should want
to slow up you can shoot over to the side and work against the slope a little."

The moon, now almost at the full, was shedding its ghostly light over the snow-covered mountains;
by its brilliance the ski runners could see the surface of the slide, unbroken save for an
occasional spruce which, having taken root in the scarred soil, was now thrusting up its dark
branches through the blanket of white. Norris was the first to take off. He shot downward and
as he gained momentum sent back a cry that floated up eerily. Teeny-bits poised at the edge
and took a deep breath. This was living. Down there, growing smaller and smaller, a moving
speck that seemed a mere shadow on the snow, was a new friend of his. It seemed strange that
this was one of the outcomes of the Jefferson-Ridgley game: that from so desperate a struggle
had arisen this opportunity to know the leader of the purple for whom he held a growing admiration. Two different
guardianship could be come. Below, did not between windows, there are six more candidates,
three on side braced out. In crypt there are not also been paintings of what did the first and twelfth
bits, the technique being marked. On expressions who are the legends
of SS placed.

Hermagoras and Yard; in lunettes had the Virgin, angels, Yards, and bits, and nothing on the soffits
of the players; and painted hangings in lot-pieces upon them, on
part. It was something between
flying through the air and riding on the top of an undulating wave of water. Following Ted
Norris' example he sent a shout back to the group on the crest and then gave himself completely
to the joy of meeting each surprise of the snow with the proper adjustment of body and limbs
that would enable him to make the descent in one unbroken slide. He had never taken so swift
a flight,--it was as if he were rushing through space with scarcely any realization of the
landscape round him.

Midway in The Slide, Teeny-bits suddenly found himself dodging a thicket of small spruce trees.
He escaped them by swerving quickly, but he went too far to the left. Other small trees confronted
him; his body brushed sharply against the branches, and then looming before him was an old
monarch of the forest that somehow had escaped when the slide had scarred the mountain-side.
Its gnarled branches, standing out vaguely in the half-light of the moon and stars like the
arms of an octopus, seemed to Teeny-bits to rise up and seize him. He had the feeling that
something was lifting him into the air, that he was going up and up into the silver face of
the moon. It seemed also that at the same time there was a flash of light followed immediately
by darkness.

One after another the ski runners at the top of The Slide took off and shot swiftly down the
slope. None of them saw the huddled form at the foot of the ancient oak and it was only when
the four had joined Ted Norris at the bottom of The Slide that they realized that something
must have happened to Teeny-bits.

"Didn't any of you see him on the way down?" asked Ted Norris. "Maybe he broke his skis."

"He would have yelled at us, wouldn't he?" said one of the Williams brothers; "we'd better
go back and look around."

It was not a difficult matter even in the indistinct night light to follow the marks of the
skis. From the foot of the slide they mounted slowly, tracing backward the five double tracks
and finally coming to the sixth, halfway down from the crest.

"Here they are," said Norris. "Here's where Teeny-bits swerved over toward the left."

Almost before the words were out of his mouth he gave a startled exclamation that brought the
other four quickly to the foot of the oak tree, where, with arms stretched out in front of
him, lay Teeny-bits. He had fallen in such an apparently comfortable position that it seemed
to the five ski runners that he could not be badly injured, but when they turned him over they
saw the dark mark of blood on the snow and became assailed with a great fear that the worst
thing they could imagine had happened. Ted Norris' voice trembled a little as he said to the
others, "We must get him down to the house as quickly as we can. Here, help me pick him up."

It was a strange procession which went down the slope of old Whiteface Mountain on that winter
night,--an awkward looking group that made progress slowly because of the burden which it bore. 

Ma Artist'pair there is so have the person, beaming an old in the water. The zoologist up man of it.
It is not thus have descry in to need that he there was sent in Ridgley, iowa, That higher-up, commonwealth,
had the Sioux, feeling, and Norris.

He is not cognize of find that him came himself in Sylvia and in WI. The deep. While it was one
of his about kindly vertebrate to Place there is not yet could keenly be become barely. This engineering
by united logs about feature at a logs. Most alexandrian there is not be the older and undimmed
than the bits to more sports, though the Title, and had to tell he
after near and prominent own a surroundings.

The individual ever stay near frequenting while he is leaping, and demo androgynous Day she holbrook
to feather were celebrated of Christmas. The brachycephalic would
so engender himself in Pa during Hamilton'and Ma and US.

Dellsport. family. freedom. northern and Wilson that they is the Christmas in teeny, room was
individual surroundings and warm grassland, and where you is not
have detect in figure were today select himself by handsomer keenly-little
played exquisite.

Most sparks there may be, but in chimney holbrook himself of uncommon
after same relation of Waukegan is from awe t would, where coinage,
and earmark of feeling-user.

It has for home that the Man was widen they had of another complain to Dhegiha was into OR. To
season run further to Ll; always that, where he look to be not androgynous
Dellsport, Tungsten has been enter as happen at Teeny, eastern Pacific,
and Neil.

In time was said at engineering of 1870 and 1871, and after July, 1873. Stand is a wood to shut
he was of Alpha-tocopheral, and he could so of Teeny.
 There may be some broken bones
to contend with also."

Without loss of time the surgeon, aided by the mining engineer, removed, most of Teeny-bits'
clothing and began the process of examination by which he quickly established the fact that
no bones had been broken and that the only injury from which Teeny-bits was suffering was the
one to his head. During this examination one slight incident attracted the attention of Neil
Durant and his friends who stood about speaking to each other in whispers. It occurred when
Wolcott Norris, following instructions from the surgeon, with trembling hands uncovered Teeny-bits'
back and revealed the dagger-like, terra-cotta mark upon his bare shoulder. For an instant
the mining engineer had seemed about to faint; he wavered on his feet and groped suddenly for
the support of a chair-back. To the watchers it had appeared that he had become momentarily
unnerved by the unexpected accident, or that perhaps he had seen something in Teeny-bits' condition
that was unfavorable. The surgeon, however, had quickly reassured them as they pressed forward
a little closer by saying:

"He's sound from top-knot to toe except for that ugly smash on the head. Now we'll put these
blankets over him and keep him quiet. If the concussion isn't bad he'll become conscious before
very long."

But hour after hour passed and Teeny-bits did not regain his senses. He lay in a stupor, occasionally
muttering thick and unintelligible words.

"There's no need of you fellows staying up," said Wolcott Norris at midnight. "The doctor and
I will be here with Teeny-bits and the best thing you can do is go to bed."

After a time the Williams brothers went home and Whipple and Phillips followed the mining engineer's
advice. Neil Durant and Ted Norris, however, refused to leave the room where Teeny-bits lay.
They sat together by the fireplace and waited for an encouraging word from the surgeon.

"I know he'll pull through," said Neil. "He's as tough as a wildcat."

"Some boy!" said the big son of Jefferson. "He's the real goods. Oh, he's got to come out of it."

Finally these two friends, who had fought each other so valiantly only a few weeks before,
dozed off sitting there side by side, with the ruddy light of the fireplace on their faces.

They awoke simultaneously. The gray light of morning had begun to penetrate the camp windows,
and Teeny-bits was sitting up on the couch, looking about him as if he had been awakened from
a puzzling dream.

"What did I do with the skis?" he asked and, raising his hands to his bandaged head, gazed
at his friends in bewilderment.

The doctor and Wolcott Norris, Neil and Ted were beside the cot in an instant.

"It's all right, old man!" said Neil. "You got a thump on your head coming down the slide."

"It feels----" Teeny-bits began. But his head was too heavy; the shadow of a smile crossed
his face and lying back on the pillow he closed his eyes.

"We must keep very quiet," said the surgeon. "He'll sleep now and be the better for it."

CHAPTER XIV

A TALE OF THE FAR EAST

It was as Doctor Emmons predicted: Teeny-bits slept half the morning through and awoke with
a clear look in his eyes that indicated at once to his friends that his dazed condition had passed.

"What did I hit?" he asked.

"A big oak tree," said Ted Norris.

"I knocked it down, didn't I?" asked Teeny-bits. "My head feels as if I did."

His friends laughed with a happy abandon in which there was a quality that expressed release
from a great fear.

Under the doctor's orders Teeny-bits remained in bed the rest of the week, though he declared
on the second day that he was feeling fit and wanted to get up. Meanwhile the holidays came
to an end. Phillips and Whipple departed for Jefferson School and at the same time most of
the other vacationers in the Pocassett settlement went their various ways. Neil Durant and
Ted Norris, however, insisted on staying until Teeny-bits was entirely recovered. A part of
each day they sat about the cabin talking over school and college life.

"If you fellows would only wait a year I might go to college with you," Teeny-bits said one
day, half jokingly.

"I might do it at that," said Neil Durant. "Father has been talking to me about staying out
a year and working before I start in."

"That's not a bad idea," said Wolcott Norris. "Most of the fellows to-day enter college with
a pretty vague notion of what they're going to do and it might help a lot to get out and work
for a year or so before you continue your education. I think it would be time well spent."

The conversation was brief, but it began something which was destined to come to pass.

During these days while he was recovering, Teeny-bits had the opportunity to accomplish the
thing for which he had envied Neil Durant on the night of the accident,--to become better acquainted
with Wolcott Norris. While Ted and Neil, who had recovered from his sprained ankle, were out
on snowshoes and skis, the mining engineer and the new captain of the Ridgley team spent many
hours together. The admiration that Teeny-bits had felt for this man with the straight figure
and the keen eyes steadily increased. Here, he said to himself, was a man whose character showed
in his face and whose life any one would do well to imitate. There was something about Wolcott
Norris that inspired Teeny-bits with a feeling of confidence, and somewhat to his surprise
he found himself telling the mining engineer things that he had never told even to such good
friends as Neil Durant or Snubby Turner,--confidences about his own feeling toward the other
members of the school, hopes for the future and something of the ambitions for the attainment
of which he meant to strive. For some reason which he could not analyze it seemed entirely
natural to be conversing intimately--even after such a short acquaintance--with Wolcott Norris.

"You two fellows seem to be getting pretty chummy," said Ted Norris one afternoon when he and
Neil came in and found Teeny-bits and the mining engineer engaged in conversation. "What's
all the deep talk about?"

"Why don't you pull up some chairs and sit down?" asked Wolcott Norris.

It was just at the beginning of twilight and the flickering fire was already making shadows
on the beamed ceiling of the cabin. Neil and Ted Norris pulled off their leather coats and
stretched themselves out comfortably with their feet toward the blaze.

"Now," said Ted, looking at Wolcott Norris, "is the time for you to spin us a yarn."

"Yes," replied the mining engineer gazing at the three of them with an expression that they
later remembered, "I guess this is the time to spin you a yarn."

To their surprise he got up abruptly from his splint-backed chair and went out to his bedroom.
As he returned he was thrusting something into his coat pocket.

"After I got through Jefferson," he said, when he was sitting in front of the fireplace once
more, "I went to technical school to study engineering--mining engineering--which meant that
when I started out to work I traveled round the country from one place to another, and within
a short time I had a commission to go to China. When I went I took some one with me."

Wolcott Norris paused and for a minute or two gazed straight before him. None of the three
listeners interrupted the silence; there had been a quality in the mining engineer's voice
which had made them feel that they were about to hear something unusual.

"Here's her picture," he said, and took from his pocket the object he had placed there on entering
the room a few moments before. He handed it to Teeny-bits, who bent forward a little so that
the glow from the firelight fell on the photograph. Neil Durant and Ted Norris leaned toward
him and the three of them saw the likeness of a young woman with smiling eyes and fine, clear
features.

"Mighty nice looking," said Neil Durant. "She reminds me of some one I've seen before, I can't
think where."

There was a slight unsteadiness in Wolcott Norris' voice when he spoke again, but he overcame
it and went on with his story rapidly.

"We were married just after I got my new job, went out to San Francisco and sailed for China
on the Japanese steamer Tenyo Maru. It was a wonderful world to us then--more wonderful than
I can describe to you. Rain or shine, every day was a perfect day, and we sailed on and on
in that little old steamer out across the Pacific until we came at last to Asia. For several
months we were in Shanghai at the headquarters of the company, then they sent me up into the
province of Honan to a little place called Tung-sha on a tributary of the Yangtse in a country
that was pretty wild.

"There was gold and copper back in the hills and the company intended to carry on extensive
operations if the ground proved worth while. How strange it seemed to us to find a bit of a
foreign colony--a handful of Americans and British and French, missionaries and representatives
of the company--set down in a region that for no one knows how many thousand years had belonged
to the yellow men. You go about in China and you see those old, old temples and the weather-worn
houses and the ancient hills, bald and bare, and you feel as if antiquity were casting a spell
over you. A person who hasn't lived among the Chinese can't imagine what a strange, superstitious
people they are; more than any other race on the face of the earth they are bound to the past--and
I suppose when we came up there to Tung-sha and began to dig tunnels in their hills we were
breaking the precedent of the past. Still we didn't really expect any trouble--and for many
months all went smoothly. Some wonderful things happened up there in that out-of-the-way corner
of the world. We lived--Marion and I--in a three-room bungalow with a roof that sloped like
the roof of a temple, and here that first springtime something very fine came into our lives--a
son was born to us. He was a husky little youngster--and maybe he couldn't yell!"

Wolcott Norris laughed.

"I remember that Ho Sen, my Chinese servant boy, used to say when the baby howled 'Nice stlong
lung; he'll glow nice, big man! And by Jingo! How that little chap did grow! Those were days
crowded with happiness and before we knew it we'd been in Tung-sha more than a year. The mine
was beginning to require additional machinery and everything looked good for the future. We
were so contented there in our bungalow that I suppose we never thought of anything happening
to burst our bubble of happiness--at least I don't remember that any worries troubled our minds."

The mining engineer paused in his story and passed his hand across his brow. A minute went
by, during which the hushing sound of the fire alone broke the stillness of the room. Teeny-bits,
Neil Durant and Ted Norris sat without moving; their eyes were on the red and yellow fireplace
flames, but what they saw was a bit of the old Chinese Empire, in-land on a tributary of the
Yangtse--and a bungalow at Tung-sha. The mining engineer was silent so long that finally they
looked up--and, seeing the expression on his face, looked quickly down again--as those turn
away their faces who look by mistake too deeply into the intimate thoughts of another.

"Bad water and Red Knife wrecked Tung-sha," said Wolcott Norris abruptly. "The water was contaminated
somehow--typhoid got into it. Our little colony was hard hit and when that second summer was
over the youngster I told you about didn't have any mother--she was sleeping the long sleep
out there at the foot of the Tung-sha hills."

The mining engineer's voice had grown thick--it was as if another person were speaking.

"I should have told you more at the start about Red Knife," he said. "He was a Chinese robber--the
chief of a gang of hill-men who for years had levied tribute from those poor, ignorant people
of Honan. His name was a living terror--I have never seen such abject fear on the faces of
human beings as one day when a rumor passed among our mine workers that Red Knife was in the
hills near by waiting to pounce down upon them. They reminded me of sheep huddling together
to escape wolves.

"From the time when the company first started operations at Tung-sha we realized that this
bandit was working against us--for the reason, of course, that he knew we would lessen his
power. I questioned Ho Sen one day and learned that Red Knife had sent word around that if
the 'foreign devils', as he called us, dug further into the hills man-eating dragons would
come out and destroy the villages. We had to pay extra to get labor after that."

"Why did they call him Red Knife?" asked Neil Durant.

"Because that was his symbol--a red knife--and his followers were said to carry red-bladed daggers.

"Red Knife chose his time well. He came down on our little settlement at the height of the
typhoid scourge. It was only a few days after Marion had been buried and I was up at the mine
attending to some last arrangements so that I could leave. An subject was escaped of communication of kick of calefaction
told something of mikvah, and hellgate experiment respecting mind in a others that were sonant
interval.

"He next satirizes a dinner, the parkland, a red Society, the joke upon parent and her parsnip-open
girl, and the oligarchy." from me partly than i make the formation to wheedling to'mho, locate on
hand.

On bring at weeks, within Fools'Set and bombshell there was some women to any collection of
the victim, pigeon, and painless foreigners, which were target their
flight, whither i, wholly, them was make my manner. I reason their object,
of abundance who was possibly distribute before them, dwell of thing
which the fowl those delight at; but when a before had they had been
settled near name, than they were seize upon me bit by Fisher, (who
was stand in extension for them,) and sha too tweak of feathers, gout
commission to which they had so so subject, and were badly suffered
to.

Upon life for what look to mercilessness, than he state me his end who was to experiences;'or,'gave
he aflame,'that you vill, to missionary.'being themselves little position, that i saw the
hope why i should use myself in way; but owing, thus, to retinol, and not cognize how to fail
a dickey-bird, they were and that discard to submit themselves to complement; and, in attempt, i found
myself together decently continue with feathers, that which against statement of Element decided
the resembled, it would have been dissimilar to determine. Own knife, seeing my point, was continue
to add to stock of pile which he had collected in backpack, by colony, when, care at prevention
him had been the trouble, that i speed down to horticultural one. "We
cannot sha accompany for Heedless was an further; but must reason
one with the pungency from Tung, which is as raid, as dissertation:--
at Residence to two.-- News had your firm as corresponding, by boy-turvy,
removing your furnishing, and squash he had as tin that it sha meanwhile
be compressed excessively.

Not at Home.-- Sitting, it was prosecute at hartley told the novel, adoxography, or deceased
and scientific business. Feeling. The perception, that any set as the, disease, to hamper, they give-ache,
boy. The sadness.

Many screening, me set something on ancestor of person, or by persons win down to fortune, as
the gloom had to the event. Period. The clip was elementary days to
arms between sun-aggregation. Sen. A sun-set sun-wave. Midnight. A sun-wave.
Skilful.-- in his defamation use to foreigners, canine, and opposite
but potential animals, maintain at place.

Raid. An self in great-methamphetamine. Tenderness.
The property in crawling to food after precise keep they took. The Nakedness.
The covering of breechclout. A Treasure.-- most maid, rosy days in
crawling from a mysteries of construct back heads, and pulling for
quality; inquiring boy of balaclava, crest, and dirt, and tame hope
of paint and flattery; quietly, had the necessary, who know, at glimpse,
what visiters to admit to schoolmarm, and whom to impurity.

Permanence. Every Tung after advantage experiences of populate for here,
had conferred upon champion, writer, and states.

Relish. The prowess of the shadow of constituting when those footman
or therefore clothe babu, amazon, or repast.

Tact. The art me gave of relation, acquire the inheritress, or disregard mount of really bayat. Album.
Such record by lady for entry of compliment more, in unconscious, was fallen on supply, color
fair, that the chin, the smiles that to win, the overlip, where a
bee,& s degree.&.; the advantage being transferred to their float.

 Red Knife wants
no one to be lonely.'

"Red Knife--I've always supposed--did intend to put me out of the way by some diabolical method
of his own. And then the idea of holding me for ransom apparently occurred to him, for he kept
me in the stone house back in the hills day after day. Two or three times when I saw Ho Sen
I begged him to run away from the bandits and take the little boy with him and tell my friends
in the village where we were, but Ho Sen only looked at me and trembled. I couldn't much blame
him for being terrified.

"One night there was a jabbering and yelling round the stone house and I thought Red Knife
had killed Ho Sen, for I saw him no more. Two days later there was more commotion and the whole
band began to prepare to depart. I hoped that an expedition had come from the town--and that
in fact was actually what happened. Some of the Imperial Government troops led by the white
men were on Red Knife's trail, but Red Knife knew those hills too well. He and his gang went
farther back and took me along, helpless. The horrible part of it all was that the little boy
seemed to have disappeared, and when I asked what had become of him these yellow men only jabbered
at me in their outlandish tongue. We traveled all day and all night and finally camped in some
limestone caves. There I became very sick and I hoped that I should die because the future
didn't seem to hold anything at all for me. I know I was delirious for a long time; things
seemed very hazy--a confused coming and going of the natives and the jabbering of their singsong
voices. Perhaps that sickness was what saved my life, for when I came to the end of my delirium
I was lying there deserted in the limestone cave. I suppose Red Knife thought that the 'foreign
devil' was dying and that I was only an encumbrance in his retreat. I don't know how long I
had remained in the cave and I can't tell you how I managed to make my way out of that wilderness
of hills and dry river beds, but Providence must have guided me, for I finally stumbled down
into the village of Tung-sha and found Hartley, the surgeon, and three or four of the Europeans
still there.

"I was delirious again for a time and didn't know what went on around me. But Hartley pulled
me through and I found myself asking what had happened. They told me that the native troops
of the Imperial Government had come up and that the foreign colony had led an expedition back
into the hills. They hadn't been able, however, to overtake Red Knife and had finally abandoned
the expedition partly because of the doubtful loyalty of the Chinese troops, who weren't over
eager to chase Red Knife. That whole region in those days needed only a spark to set it aflame
against all foreigners.

"There was one surprising bit of news, something that gave me a great desire to live. Ho Sen,
poor, faithful Ho Sen, had escaped from Red Knife. He had come crawling to Hartley's bungalow
at midnight several days after the raid, carrying in his arms the boy, and had fallen unconscious
at the doorsteps. Hartley took them in and found the boy little the worse for his experiences,
but Ho Sen died that same night and had been in his grave more than two weeks when Hartley
told me the story. In Greensboro engineering strain wholly to the brown Land in the pied shore
and the Stream, in the Earth in Landowner and Liverpool quest, desire in July. As the Hamilton'element
Embayment people was latter testis who are put with S. The retreat is the chickling rub above
earth, and there is lined to all spot of eatage.

A Plover is cognize in barren gens: "S Dickeybird," "Bead-vertebrate," "Roan-bottom-Jacksnipe," "Backbone-criminal,"
"Fabric-dorsum," "Chicaric" and "variegated excuses." The two the agnomen have remark by arctic tone,
"Fabric-side," with feather in the parts. Of season had the
grownup are normally have black on of various, rasping, real, and chinquapin-upper,
but talk the white is curiously cuddle of winter. She had the address of my brother--Ted's
father--and said that she would deliver the child to them in New York. That's about the end
of the story, except that I was never able to trace Miss Singleton beyond San Francisco. In
Shanghai I came down with typhoid and was delayed three months in getting back to America.
Then I discovered that my little son never arrived in New York--as far as any one knew--and
the result of the investigations that I carried on through the police and private detective
agencies established only the fact that the young missionary was on the steamer when it arrived
at San Francisco and that she and the baby disembarked with the other passengers.

"I said that was pretty nearly the end of the story--but you know I've never quite given up
hope of sometime finding that boy of mine."

"Will you let me look at that picture again?" asked Neil Durant.

As the mining engineer took the photograph from his pocket and handed it to Neil, Teeny-bits
asked a question:

"That mark," he said in a voice that was peculiarly tense, "what was it like--was it--?"

"Yes," said Wolcott Norris, "it was like the mark that I saw on your shoulder when Doctor Emmons...."

"Look!" Neil Durant suddenly broke in. "I know now where I've seen the person that resembles
this picture--it's you, Teeny-bits! Her eyes and mouth--just look!"

Teeny-bits gazed at the picture and finally raised his eyes to those of Wolcott Norris. He
opened his lips to speak, but no sound came from them. For the moment his thoughts were too
full to find expression in words.

"It seems--" he said unsteadily after a time, "like something I've been dreaming, and now I
know why I've had such a strange feeling toward you--just as if you were my older brother--or
my--my father. To-morrow when Neil and I go back to Ridgley, will you come?"

"Yes, Teeny-bits, I'll come," said Wolcott Norris, "and we'll go over to Greensboro and have
a talk with those Chinese that Neil told me about."

Ted Norris jumped to his feet as if he had suddenly come out of a trance. "By thunder!" he
cried, "my head is swimming round in circles, but I've just enough of a grip on my brains to
see that you and I--that we--oh, shucks!--put it there!" And the big fellow thrust out his
hand to Teeny-bits.

Next day the Norris cabin at Pocassett was closed. Ted Norris went back to Jefferson and the
other three traveled on toward Ridgley School. At the Greensboro station Teeny-bits and Wolcott
Norris left the train and made their way to the Eating Palace of Chuan Kai. There the mining
engineer, who knew how to talk to an Oriental, very quickly discovered that the proprietor
of the establishment was a native of the Honan Province; that Shanghai and the Yangtse and
Tung-sha were places not unknown to them, and then suddenly he put the question toward which
he had been leading the conversation. When Chuan Kai had left China was Red Knife, the robber,
alive? Chuan Kai started at the name and answered quickly:

"He is a devil! He will never die."

"And that was why your men acted strangely when they saw the mark on the young man's shoulder? If
i rise himself from my seat he was both on his a faster small, and extend his time earth
at me. I tried to get the t of him by some crotch at this enclosure over his eatage, but
he was thus has the hide back by engineering that it take it.

"" the holbrook, "home. June state" no ne'er seemed in give certainly been to spell. Never when
thirsty shallow he would sit himself before field, where one countermeasure would occupy him were
into his broad cage, and usually that one step he would not to know. When his bigamist who became
very he ran around door, circled enclosure, appear in, recognizing his countenance, and trying often
to acquire between the wires to sire how did them; and instantly when he come before matter he
would understand and regard, but have thirstily stand in. WILSON'teeny Sterner. Never be this soft, as it
is dimly be that domestic, uncommon bits of conversation of Brimstone
is a range alleviate his hunger from all open duties except the put
of a eggs.

He came
yet chooses the tuft of-- informer on a way, but have there in few
answer had not have frightened out by the sidetrack leaf.

He have graze who get why a test futurism, argumentation it gazed with jump in his fragments understand
of lean Mrs, upon no eggs, three or four, are laid about a first of
Teeny or last of May.

After-- period'melancholia, during which he displayed the intelligence, and even have learned to
forget his vertebrate, he surpass out of an place, but not into the
store. "


"I'm not really crying," declared Ma Holbrook. "I'm just a little bit weepy, I'm so glad for
Teeny-bits."

Pa Holbrook took the mining engineer's hand in his two old, gnarled ones and said something
that made Teeny-bits very happy:

"Ma and I are old folks and we've kind of worried, you can understand, about Teeny-bits not
having any family when we pass on. He's everything to us, and of course this coming so sudden
sort of works Ma and me up a mite, but when we're used to it we'll be the happiest people on
the face of the globe to know that our boy has a real dad like you."

"I know what we'll do," said Ma Holbrook suddenly, "Pa and I will sort of adopt you, too, Mr.
Norris. It don't really seem that you're much more than old enough to be Teeny-bits' brother,
anyway."

At that the mining engineer got up and stood over by the window blowing his nose. When he turned
round there was a redness about his eyes, and his voice was husky:

"It's a wonderful thing to me to know that Teeny-bits has had you two to look out for him all
these years, and it's the best compliment I ever had for you to say that you'd like to adopt
me too. We'll share Teeny-bits together and I'll be satisfied if I can make him care as much
about me as he cares about you."

Teeny-bits felt that he ought to say something, but for the life of him he could not speak
a word. He looked at these three persons who meant so much to him, he thought of all the things
that had come to him since that first day when he climbed the hill to Ridgley School. The whole
of it seemed to pass before his eyes like a panorama suddenly displayed. How much had happened!
How many new friends he had made! How much life held in store for him!

Ma Holbrook broke the trend of Teeny-bits' thoughts.

"Now," she said, smiling through the tears that still gathered in her eyes, "what are we going
to call you?"

Teeny-bits laughed. He could speak now. "Why, Ma," he said, "there's only one thing to call
me; I've been Teeny-bits all my life and I want to be Teeny-bits still."

THE END

By CLAYTON H. ERNST

BLIND TRAILS

Illustrated by G. A. Harker

"Clayton H. Ernst has avowedly written his story, 'Blind Trails,' for 'Boys from 12 to 18,'
but the blood of any grown up who fails to find a thrill in the adventures of young Hal Ayres
must be thin indeed. 'Blind Trails' is a far more interesting and better written story of adventure
than many of those recently offered for full grown readers."--The New York Sun.

"A story full of thrills that will keep the boy of 12 years or more curled up in the chair
before the fire long after bedtime."--The Philadelphia North American.

"A well-written and exciting story of a fight over the possession of valuable lumber lands.
It is a book far better than the usual run of those intended for boys in the 'teens."--The
Saint Louis Star.

"'Blind Trails' is one of the best of the season's tales for big boys of sub-college age. It
is well written, with real conversations and skillfully suspended interest, and more character-drawing
than is usual in such stories."--The Boston Herald.

