"The danger it offered was less imminent than that of remaining in so terrible a situation,"
says the narrative. "A light breeze which fortunately sprang up, the efforts of the boats,
and the tide, conveyed the ship to the opening, across which she passed with frightful rapidity.
The strength of the current prevented the Endeavour from touching either shore of the channel,
which, however, was but a mile in width, and extremely unequal in depth, giving now thirty
fathoms, now only seven of foul bottom."

If we have lingered somewhat over the incidents of this voyage, it is because it was accomplished
in unknown seas, in the midst of breakers and currents, which, sufficiently dangerous for a
sailor when they are marked on a map, become much more so when, as was the case with Cook,
since leaving the coast of New Holland, the voyage is made in the face of unknown obstacles,
which all the instinct and keen vision of the sailor cannot always successfully surmount.

One last question remained to be solved,--

Were New Holland and New Guinea portions of one country? Were they divided by an arm of the
sea, or by a strait?

In spite of the dangers of such a course, Cook approached the shore, and followed the coast
of Australia towards the north.

On the 21st he doubled the most northerly cape of New Holland, to which he gave the name of
Cape York, and entered a channel sprinkled with islands near the mainland, which inspired him
with the hope of finding a passage to the Indian Ocean.

Once more he landed, and planting the English flag, solemnly took possession in the name of
King George, of the entire Eastern Coast from the eighteenth degree of latitude to this spot,
situated in 107 degrees south. He gave the name of New South Wales to this territory, and to
fitly conclude the ceremony, he caused three salutes to be fired.

Cook next penetrated Torres Strait, which he called Endeavour Strait, discovered and named
the Wallis Islands, situated in the middle of the south-west entrance to Booby Island, and
Prince of Wales Island, and steered for the southern coast of New Guinea, which he followed
until the 3rd of September without being able to land.

Upon that day Cook landed with about eleven well-armed men, amongst them Solander, Banks, and
his servants. They were scarcely a quarter of a mile from their ship, when three Indians emerged
from the wood, uttering piercing cries, and rushed at the English.

"The one who came nearest," says the narrative, "threw something which he carried at his side,
with his hand, and it burned like gunpowder, but we heard no report."

Cook and his companions were obliged to fire upon the natives in order to regain their ship,
from whence they could examine them at their leisure. They resembled the Australians entirely,
and like them, wore their hair short, and were perfectly naked--only their skin was less dark;
no doubt because they were less dirty.

"Meantime the natives struck their fire at intervals, four or five at a time. We could not
imagine what this fire could be, nor their object in throwing it.

"They held in the hand a short stick, perhaps a hollow cane, which they flourished from side
to side, and at the same instant we saw the fire and smoke exactly as it flashes from a gun,
and it lasted no longer. We observed this astonishing phenomenon from the vessel, and the illusion
was so great that those on board believed the Indians had fire-arms, and we ourselves should
have imagined they fired guns, but that our ship was so close that in such a case we must have
heard the explosion."

This fact remains unexplained, in spite of the many commentaries it has occasioned, and which
bear out the testimony of the great navigator.

Many of the English officers demanded immediate permission to land in search of cocoa-nuts
arid other fruits, but the captain was unwilling to risk his sailors' lives in so futile an
attempt; he was, besides, anxious to reach Batavia, to obtain repairs for his vessel. He thought
it useless, moreover, to remain a longer time in these latitudes. They had been so often visited
by the Spanish and Dutch, that there were no further discoveries to make.

In passing Arrow and Wesel Islands he rectified their positions, and reaching Timor, put into
port in Savu Island, where the Dutch had been settled for some time. There Cook revictualled,
and by accurate observations settled its position at 10 degrees 35 minutes southern latitude,
and 237 degrees 30 minutes west longitude.

After a short interval the Endeavour arrived at Batavia, where she was repaired.

But the stay in that unhealthy country was fatal after such severe fatigue. Endemic fevers
raged there; and Banks, Solander, and Cook, as well as the greater part of the crew, fell ill.
Many died, amongst them Monkhouse, the surgeon, Tupia, and little Tayeto. Ten men only escaped
the fever.

The Endeavour set sail on the 27th of December, and on the 15th of January, 1771, put into
Prince of Wales Island for victuals.

From that moment, sickness increased among the crew. Twenty-three men died, amongst them Green,
the astronomer, who was much regretted.

After a stay at the Cape of Good Hope, where he met with the welcome he so sorely needed, Cook
re-embarked, touched at St. Helena, and anchored in the Downs on the 11th of June, 1772, after
an absence of nearly four years.

"Thus," says Kippis, "ended Cook's first voyage, a voyage in which he had experienced such
dangers, discovered so many countries, and so often evinced his superiority of character. He
was well worthy of the dangerous enterprise and of the courageous efforts to which he had been
called."

CHAPTER IV. CAPTAIN COOK'S SECOND VOYAGE.

I.

Search for the Southern Continent--Second stay at New Zealand-- Pomontou Archipelago--Second
stay at Tahiti--Reconnoitring Tonga Isles--Third stay at New Zealand--Second crossing of the
Southern Ocean--Easter Island reconnoitred--Visit to the Marquesas Islands.

Had the government not been desirous of rewarding James Cook for the way in which he had fulfilled
the mission entrusted to him, the unanimous voice of the public would have constrained them.
On the 29th of August he received the rank of commander in the Royal Navy. But the great navigator,
proud of the services he had rendered to England and to science, thought the reward less than
his achievements merited. He would have delighted in an appointment as ship's captain, but
Lord Sandwich, who was then at the head of the Admiralty, pointed out to him, that it was not
possible to gratify him without upsetting all established customs, and injuring the discipline
of the Royal Navy.

However, Cook busied himself in putting together the necessary materials for the narration
of his experiences; but, being soon occupied with still more important matters, he placed them
in the hands of Dr. Hawkesworth, who was to superintend their publication.

At the same time, the observations he had taken on the transit of Mercury in concert with Mr.
Green, his calculations and astronomical solutions, were submitted to the consideration of
the Royal Society, and that learned body at once recognized his merit.

In one respect, however, the important results obtained by Cook were incomplete. He had not
perfectly proved the impossibility of an antarctic continent. This chimera was still dear to
the hearts of scientific men. Although obliged to admit that neither New Zealand nor Australia
made part of such a continent, and that the Endeavour had navigated in latitudes in which it
might have been found, they still affirmed that it would be found still more south, and reiterated
all those advantages which its discovery would entail.

The government determined to settle a question which had been discussed for so many years,
and to despatch an expedition for the purpose. Its commander was easily selected. The nature
of the voyage demanded vessels of peculiar construction. As the Endeavour had been sent to
the Falkland Islands, the Admiralty gave orders for the purchase of the two suitable vessels
for the purpose.

Cook was consulted, and insisted that the ships should be solidly built, draw little water,
and possess capacity for carrying provisions and ammunition in proportion to the number of
the crew and the length of the voyage.

The Admiralty accordingly bought two vessels, constructed at Whitby, by the same ship-builder
as the Endeavour. The larger was of 462 tons burden, and was named the Resolution, the second
was only of 336 tons, and was called the Adventure.

Cook received command of the Resolution, and Captain Tobias Furneaux, second lieutenant of
the Wallis, was raised to the command of the Adventure. The second and third officers, and
several of the crew had already served in the Endeavour.

It may readily be imagined that every possible care was taken in the equipment of these ships.
Lord Sandwich and Captain Palliser themselves superintended every detail.

Each of the ships was stocked with provisions of every kind for two years and a half.

Very extraordinary articles were provided at the instance of Captain Cook, who claimed them
as anti-scorbutics, for instance, malt, sour krout, salted cabbages, soup-slabs, mustard and
saloop, as well as carrot marmalade, and thickened and unfermented beer, which was tried at
the suggestion of Baron Storch of Berlin, and Mr. Pelham, secretary to the Commissariat department.

Equal care was taken to ship two small boats, each of twenty tons, intended to carry the crew
in case of shipwreck.

William Hodges, a landscape painter, two naturalists, John Reinhold Forster and his son George;
two astronomers, W. Wales and W. Bayley, accompanied the expedition, provided with the best
instruments for observation.

Nothing that could conduce to the success of the adventure was neglected. It was to return
with an immense amount of collected information, which was to contribute to the progress of
the natural and physical sciences, and to the ethnology of navigation and geography.

Cook says, "I received my instructions at Plymouth dated 25th June. They enjoined my immediate
departure for the island of Madeira. To ship wine there, and thence to proceed to the Cape
of Good Hope, where I was to let the crew have a spree on shore, and obtain the provisions
and other stores I needed. To advance southwards and endeavour to find Circumcision Cape, which
was said to have been discovered by M. Bouvet, in the 54 degrees southern parallel, and about
11 degrees 20 minutes east longitude, reckoning from Greenwich. If I found this cape, to ascertain
whether it was part of the continent or an island. Should it prove the former, to neglect no
opportunity of investigating its possible extent. To collect facts of every kind which might
be useful to navigation and commerce, or would tend to the progress of the natural sciences.
I was desired to observe the spirit, temperament, character, and means of the inhabitants,
should there be any, and to use every fair means of forming friendly alliances with them.

"My instructions proceeded to enjoin me to seek discoveries in the east or west, according
to the position in which I might find myself, and advised my nearing the south pole as much
as possible, and as long as the condition of the ships, the health of the crew, and the provisions
allowed of my doing so. To be careful in any case to reserve sufficient provisions to reach
some known port, where I might refit for my return to England.

"In addition, I was ordered, if I found Circumcision Cape to be an island, or if I did not
succeed in finding it, in the first case to take the necessary bearings, and in both to sail
southward as long as I still hoped to find the continent. Then to proceed eastward, to look
for this continent, and to discover the islands which might be situated in this part of the
southern hemisphere. To remain in high latitudes and to prosecute my discoveries, as had been
already said, as near the pole as possible, until I had completed the navigation of the world,
and finally to repair to the Cape of Good Hope, and from thence to Spithead."

Cook left Plymouth harbour on the 13th of July, and on the 29th of the same month he arrived
at Funchal, in Madeira. Here he took in provisions, and continued his route southwards. But
being shortly convinced that his supply of water would not hold out until he reached the Cape
of Good Hope, he determined to break the voyage by putting in at Cape Verd Islands, and on
the 10th of August he anchored in Praya Port, which he left four days later.

Cook availed himself of his stay in this port, as he usually did, to collect every fact which
might be useful to navigators. His description is the more valuable now, as these parts have
completely changed in character, and the conditions of a stay in port have been greatly modified
by the improvements accomplished there.

On the 23rd of the same month, after violent squalls which had driven every one on deck, Cook,
aware of the pernicious effect of the damp of warm climates, and always on the alert to keep
his crew in good health, gave orders to aerate (renew the air) in the between decks. He even
had a fire lighted in order to smoke it, and dry it quickly, and not only took the precautions
advocated by Lord Sandwich, and Sir Hugh Palliser, but also those which the experience of his
last voyage suggested to him.

Thanks to all these efforts at prevention there was not a single sick case on board the Resolution
when she arrived at the Cape of Good Hope on the 30th of October. Cook, in company with Captain
Furneaux, and Messrs. Foster, went to pay a visit to the Dutch governor, Baron de Plettemberg,
who placed all the resources of the colony at his disposal. There he found that two French
ships, which had left the island of Mauritius in March, had touched at the Cape before proceeding
to the southern seas where they were to prosecute discoveries, under command of Captain Marion.

During this stay in port, which was longer than they expected, Forster met the Swedish botanist
Sparman, a pupil of Linnæus, and engaged him to accompany him, by promising him large pay.
It is difficult to praise Forster's disinterestedness under these circumstances too highly.
He had no hesitation in admitting a rival, and even paid his expenses, in order to add completeness
to the studies in natural history which he wished to make in the countries he was about to visit.

Anchor was weighed on the 22nd of November, and the two ships resumed their course southwards,
in search of Cape Circumcision, discovered by Captain Bouvet, on the 1st of January, 1739.
As the temperature would rapidly become colder, Cook distributed the warm clothes, furnished
by the Admiralty, to his sailors. From the 29th of November till the 6th of December a frightful
tempest prevailed. The ships, driven out of their course, were carried to the east, to such
a degree that they were forced to resume the search for Circumcision Cape. Another consequence
of the bad weather, and of the sudden change from heat to extreme cold was the death of all
the animals embarked at the Cape. And lastly, the sailors suffered so much from the damp, that
it was necessary to increase the rations of brandy to stimulate them to work.

