CONTENTS.

CHAPTER  PAGE

   I.--HINTS FOR THE JOURNEY
  II.--AT CORONADO BEACH
 III.--SAN DIEGO
  IV.--EN ROUTE TO LOS ANGELES
   V.--LOS ANGELES AND ROUND ABOUT
  VI.--PASADENA
 VII.--CAMPING ON MOUNT WILSON
VIII.--CATCHING UP ON THE KITE-SHAPED TRACK
  IX.--RIVERSIDE
   X.--A LESSON ON THE TRAIN
  XI.--SANTA BARBARA
 XII.--HER CITY AND COUNTY
XIII.--IN GALA DRESS
 XIV.--AU REVOIR

A Truthful Woman in Southern California

CHAPTER I.

HINTS FOR THE JOURNEY.

     The typical Forty-niner, in alluring dreams, grips the Golden
     Fleece.

     The fin-de-siècle Argonaut, in Pullman train, flees the Cold and
     Grip.

     En Sol y la Sombra--shade as well as sun.

Yes, as California is. I resolve neither to soar into romance nor drop into poetry (as even
Chicago drummers do here), nor to idealize nor quote too many prodigious stories, but to write
such a book as I needed to read before leaving my "Abandoned Farm," "Gooseville," Mass. For
I have discovered that many other travellers are as ignorant as myself regarding practical
information about every-day life here, and many others at home may know even less.

So let me say that California has not a tropical, but a semi-tropical climate, and you need
the same clothing for almost every month that is found necessary and comfortable in New York
or Chicago during the winter.

Bring fur capes, heavy wraps, simple woolen dresses for morning and outdoor life; and unless
rolling in wealth, pack as little as possible of everything else, for extra baggage is a curse
and will deplete a heavy purse,--that rhymes and has reason too. I know of one man who paid
$300 for extra baggage for his party of fifteen from Boston to Los Angeles.

Last year I brought dresses and underwear for every season, and for a vague unknown fifth;
also my lectures, causing profanity all along the line, and costing enough to provide drawing-room
accommodations for the entire trip.

Why did I come? Laryngitis, bronchitis, tonsilitis, had claimed me as their own. Grip (I will
not honor it with a foreign spelling, now it is so thoroughly acclimated and in every home)
had clutched me twice--nay, thrice; doctors shook their heads, thumped my lungs, sprayed my
throat, douched my nose, dosed me with cough anodynes and nerve tonics, and pronounced another
winter in the North a dangerous experiment. Some of you know about this from personal experience.
Not a human being could I induce to join me. If this hits your case, do not be deterred; just
come and be made over into a joyous, healthful life. I would not urge those to take the tedious
journey who are hopelessly consumptive. Home is the best place for such, and although I see
many dragging wearily along with one lung, or even half of that, who settle here and get married
and prolong existence for a few years, and although some marvellous cures have been effected,
still I say the same.

And what is to be put in the one big trunk? Plenty of flannels of medium thickness, a few pretty
evening dresses, two blouses, silk and woolen or velvet for morning wear, with simple skirts,
a gossamer, rubbers, thick boots for long tramps and excursions, parasol, umbrella, soft hat
to shade the face, and gloves for all sorts of occasions. I do not venture to suggest anything
for men, they travel so sensibly. The more experienced one is, the less he carries with him.

So do not load up with portfolio and portable inkstand, your favorite stationery, the books
that delighted your childhood or exerted a formative influence upon your character in youth.
Deny yourself and leave at home the gold or silver toilet set, photograph album, family Bibles,
heavy fancy work, gilded horseshoe for luck, etc. I know of bright people who actually carried
their favorite matches from an eastern city to Tacoma, also a big box of crackers, cheese,
pickles, and preserved fruits, only to find the best of everything in that brilliant and up-with-the-times
city. One old lady brought a calla-lily in a pot! When she arrived and saw hedges and fields
of lilies, hers went out of the window. Another lady from Boston brought a quart bottle of
the blackest ink, only to spill it all upon a new carpet at Santa Barbara, costing the boarding-house
keeper thirty-five dollars. Everything that one needs can be purchased all along the way, from
a quinine capsule to a complete outfit for any occasion.

As to the various ways of coming here, I greatly prefer the Southern Pacific in winter, and
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fé in spring or summer. Either will take you from New York to San
Diego and return for $137, allowing six months' stay. The "Phillips Excursion" will take you
from Boston to San Francisco for fifty-five dollars. But in this case the beds are hard, and
you provide your own meals. Some try the long voyage, twenty-three days from New York to San
Francisco. It is considered monotonous and undesirable by some; others, equally good judges,
prefer it decidedly.

I believe in taking along a loose wrapper to wear in the cars, especially when crossing the
desert. It greatly lessens fatigue to be able to curl up cosily in a corner and go to sleep,
with a silk travelling hat or a long veil on one's head, and the stiff bonnet or big hat with
showy plumes nicely covered in its long purse-like bag, and hanging on a hook above. The sand
and alkali ruin everything, and are apt to inflame the eyes and nose. I find a hamper with
strap indispensable on the train; it will hold as much as a small trunk, yet it can be easily
carried.

Now imagine you have arrived, very tired, and probably with a cold in your head, for the close
heated cars and the sudden changes of climate are trying. You may be at The Raymond, and "personally
conducted." Nothing can be better than that. But if you are alone at Los Angeles, or San Francisco,
come straight down to Coronado Beach, and begin at the beginning--or the end, as you may think it.

CHAPTER II.

AT CORONADO BEACH.

I associate Coronado Beach so closely with Warner (Charles D.), the cultured and cosmopolitan,
that every wave seems to murmur his name, and the immense hotel lives and flourishes under
the magic of his rhetoric and commendation. Just as Philadelphia is to me Wanamakerville and
Terrapin, so Coronado Beach is permeated and lastingly magnetized by Warner's sojourn here
and what he "was saying."

But I must venture to find fault with his million-times-quoted adjective "unique" as it is
used. It has been stamped on stationery and menu cards, and has gone the world over in his
volume "Our Italy," and no one ever visits this spot who has not made the phrase his own. To
me it deserves a stronger word, or series of words. We say a pretty girl has a "unique" way
of dressing her hair, or an author a "unique" way of putting things.

But as I look out of my window this glorious morning, and watch the triple line of foaming
waves breaking on the long beach, a silver sickle in the sunshine; the broad expanse of the
Pacific, with distant sails looking like butterflies apoise; Point Loma grandly guarding the
right, and farther back the mountain view, where snowy peaks can just be discerned over the
nearer ranges; the quiet beauty of the grounds below, where borders and ovals and beds of marguerites
contrast prettily with long lines and curves of the brilliant marigolds; grass, trees, and
hedges green as June--a view which embraces the palm and the pine, the ocean and lofty mountains,
cultivated gardens and rocky wastes, as I see all this, I for one moment forget "unique" and
exclaim, "How bold, magnificent, and unrivalled!" Give me a new and fitting adjective to describe
what I see. Our best descriptive adjectives are so recklessly used in daily life over minute
matters, that absolutely nothing is left for this rare combination.

As a daughter of New Hampshire in this farthest corner of the southwest, my mind crosses the
continent to the remote northeast and the great Stone Face of the Franconia Mountains. Chiselled
by an Almighty hand, its rugged brow seamed by the centuries, its features scarred by the storms
of ages, gazing out over the broad land, where centre the hopes of the human race, who can
forget that face, sad with the mysteries of pain and sorrow, yet inspiring with its rugged
determination, and at times softened with the touch of sunlit hope?

Point Loma has something of the same sphinx-like grandeur, with its long bold promontory stretching
out into the western waters. These two seem to be keeping watch and ward over mountain and
sea: each appropriate in its place and equally impressive. There the stern prophet surveying
the home of great beginnings, the cradle of creative energy; and here, its counterpart, a mighty
recumbent lion, its dreamy, peaceful gaze turned with confidence out over the wide Pacific
to the setting sun, with assurance of ultimate success, a pledge of aspirations satisfied,
of achievements assured, of----Whoa there! Hello! This to my runaway steeds, Imagination and
Sentiment. Brought back by a passing bell-boy, I shall now keep a tighter rein.

But when one first breathes the air of California, there is a curious exaltation and excitement,
which leads on irresistibly. This is often followed by a natural depression, sleepiness, and
reaction. But that view never changes, and I know you will say the same. A florid, effervescent,
rhapsodical style seems irresistible.

Some temperaments may not be affected at all. But the first morning I felt like leaping a five-barred
fence, and the next like lying down anywhere and sleeping indefinitely. I met a distinguished
Boston artist recently, who had just arrived. The day was superb. He seemed in a semi-delirium
of ecstasy over everything. His face glowed, his eyes shone, his hands were full of flowers.
He said, "My heart jumps so I'm really afraid it will jump out of my body." The next morning
he was wholly subdued. It had poured all night, and the contrast was depressing. A six-footer
from Albany was in the sleepy state. "If I don't pull out soon," he said, "I shall be bedridden.
I want to sleep after breakfast, or bowling, or bath, or my ride or dinner, and really long
to go to bed by nine."

There has probably been more fine writing and florid rhetoric about California than any other
State in the Union.

The Hotel del Coronado is a mammoth hostelry, yet homelike in every part, built in a rectangle
with inner court, adorned with trees, flowers, vines, and a fountain encircled by callas; color,
pure white, roofs and chimneys red; prevailing woods, oak, ash, pine, and redwood.

All around the inner court a series of suites of rooms, each with its own bath and corner sitting-room--literally
"a linkèd suiteness long drawn out." It is one eighth of a mile from my bedroom to my seat
in the dining-room, so that lazy people are obliged to take daily constitutionals whether they
want to or not, sighing midway for trolley accommodations. The dining-room may safely be called
roomy, as it seats a thousand guests, and your dearest friends could not be recognized at the
extreme end. Yet there is no dreary stretch or caravansary effect, and to-day every seat is
filled, and a dozen tourists waiting at the door.

Every recreation of city or country is found in this little world: thirty billiard-tables,
pool, bowling, tennis, polo, bathing (where bucking barrel-horses and toboggan slides, fat
men who produce tidal waves, and tiny boys who do the heroic as sliders and divers, make fun
for the spectators), hunting, fishing, yachting, rowing, riding to hounds, rabbit hunts, pigeon
shoot, shooting-galleries, driving, coaching, cards, theatre, ballroom, lectures, minstrels,
exhibitions of the Mammoth and Minute from Yosemite with the stereopticon, to Pacific sea-mosses,
the ostrich farm, the museum or maze for a morning hour, dressing or undressing for evening
display, watching the collection of human beings who throng everywhere with a critical or humorous
eye, finding as much variety as on Broadway or Tremont Street; dancing-classes for children;
a chaperon and a master of ceremonies for grown folks; a walk or drive twelve miles long on
a smooth beach at low tide, not forgetting the "dark room" for kodak and camera f--amateurs.

You see many athletic, fine-looking men, who ride daringly and ride to kill. Once a week the
centre of the office is filled with game: rabbits, quail, snipe, ducks, etc., everything here--but
an undertaker. And old Ocean eternally booming (the only permanent boom I know of in Southern
California).

And that is what you see and hear at the Hotel del Coronado. The summer climate is better than
the winter--never too warm for comfort, the mercury never moving for weeks. I expected constant
sunshine, a succession of June's fairest days, which would have been monotonous, to say nothing
of the effect upon crops and orchards. The rainy season is necessary and a blessing to the
land-owners, hard as it is for "lungers" and the nervous invalids who only feel well on fine
days and complain unreasonably.

Ten inches is the average needed just here. Rain is rainy and wet weather is wet, but the ground
dries as soon as the pelting shower is over. I do not find the raw, searching dampness of our
Eastern seashore resorts. Here we are said to have "dry fogs" and an ideal marine atmosphere,
but it was too cold for comfort during the March rains for those not in robust health.

As I sit in the upper gallery and watch the throng issuing from the dining-room, I make a nice
and unerring social distinction between the Toothpick Brigade who leave the table with the
final mouthful semi-masticated, and those who have an air of finished contentment.

The orchestra is unusually good, giving choice selections admirably executed. I have not decided
whether music at meals is a blessing or otherwise. If sad, it seems a mockery; if gay, an interruption.
For one extremely sensitive to time and tune it is difficult to eat to slow measures. And when
the steak is tough and a galop is going on above, it is hard to keep up.

Among the many fleeting impressions of faces and friends here, one or two stand out clearly
and indelibly--stars of the first magnitude in the nebulæ--as dear Grandma Wade from Chicago,
the most attractive old lady I ever met: eighty-three years old, with a firm step, rotund figure,
and sweet, unruffled face, crowned with the softest snow-white curls, on which rests an artistic
cap trimmed with ribbons of blue or delicate heliotrope, and small artificial flowers to match.
I have known several interesting octogenarians, but never one that surpassed her in loveliness,
wit, and positive jollity. Her spontaneous fun is better than the labored efforts of many a
famous humorist.

She still has her ardent admirers among men as well as women, and now and then receives an
earnest proposal from some lonely old fellow.

The last of these aged lovers, when refused and relegated to the position of a brother, urged
her to reconsider this important matter, making it a subject of prayer. But she quietly said,
"I'm not going to bother the Lord with questions I can answer myself." When choked by a bread-crumb
at table, she said to the frightened waiter, as soon as she had regained her breath, "Never
mind, if that did go down the wrong way, a great many good things have gone down the right
way this winter."

She is invariably cheerful, and when parting with her son for the winter she said, "Well, John,
I want to know before I go just what you have left me in your will!" which little joke changed
a tear into a smile.

Even when ill she is still bright and hopeful, so that a friend exclaimed, "Grandma, I do believe
you would laugh if you were dying;" and she replied, "Well, so many folks go to the Lord with
a long face, I guess He will be glad to see one come in smiling."

Oh, how repulsive the artificial bloom, the cosmetics and hair-dyes which make old age a horror,
compared with her natural beauty! God bless and keep dear Grandma Wade!

Little "Ted" is another character and favorite, and his letter to his nurse in New York gives
a good idea of how the place affects a bright, impressionable child.

     "My dear Julia: It is a dummy near the hotel and it takes five
     days to come here and there is an island right beyond the boat
     house and they have a pigeon shoot every week. And there is six
     hundred people here Julia, one hundred and fifty came yesterday.

     "There is a mountin across the river and a house very far away by
     itself, Julia. I play in the sand every day of my life, and I take
     swimming lessons and I have two oranges. California is the biggest
     world in the country and there is a tree very, very far away. Julia
     it is a puzzle walk near the hotel, Rose and me went all through it
     and Julia, we got our way out easy."

He has it all. All the trees are cultivated here, so I looked round for the one Ted spoke of,
and find it lights up at night and revolves for the aid of the mariners. I think that all Californians
echo his sentiment that "California is the biggest world in the country"; and compared with
the hard work of the New England farmers, what is the cultivation of orchards but playing in
the sand with golden oranges? Some one says that Californians "irrigate, cultivate, and exaggerate."

Charles Nordhoff, the veteran journalist and author, lives within sight of the hotel (which
he pronounces the most perfect and charming hotel he knows of in Europe or America), in a rambling
bungalow consisting of three small cottages moved from different points and made into one.
He believes in California for "health, pleasure, and residence." It is a rare privilege to
listen to his conversation, sitting by his open fire or at his library table, or when he is
entertaining friends at dinner.

So ends my sketch of Coronado. Coronado! What a perfect word! Musical, euphonious, regal, "the
crowned"! The name of the governor of New Galicia, and captain-general of the Spanish army,
sent forth in 1540 in search of the seven cities of Cibola. General J. H. Simpson, U. S. A.,
has written a valuable monograph on "Coronado's March," which can be found in the Smithsonian
Report for 1869.

I intend to avoid statistics and history on the one side, and extravagant eulogy on the other.

Now we will say good-by to our new friends, take one more look at Point Loma, and cross the
ferry to San Diego.

CHAPTER III.

SAN DIEGO.

     "The truly magnificent, and--with reason--famous port of San
     Diego."--From the first letter of Father Junipero in Alto
     California.

Fifteen cents for motor, ferry, and car will take you to Hotel Florence, on the heights overlooking
the bay, where I advise you to stop. The Horton House is on an open, sunny site, and is frequented
by "transients" and business men of moderate means. The Brewster is a first-class hotel, with
excellent table. The Florence is not a large boarding-house or family hotel, but open for all.
It has a friendly, homelike atmosphere, without the exactions of an ultra-fashionable resort.
The maximum January temperature is seventy-four degrees, while that of July is seventy-nine
degrees, and invalid guests at this house wear the same weight clothing in summer that they
do in winter. The rooms of this house are all sunny, and each has a charming ocean or mountain
view. It is easy to get there; hard to go away. Arriving from Coronado Beach, I was reminded
of the Frenchman who married a quiet little home body after a desperate flirtation with a brilliant
society queen full of tyrannical whims and capricious demands. When this was commented on as
surprising, he explained that after playing with a squirrel one likes to take a cat in his
lap. Really, it is so restful that the building suggests a big yellow tabby purring sleepily
in the sunshine. I sat on the veranda, or piazza, taking a sun-bath, in a happy dream or doze,
until the condition of nirvana was almost attained. What day of the week was it? And the season?
Who could tell? And who cares? Certainly no one has the energy to decide it. Last year, going
there to spend one day, I remained for five weeks, hypnotized by my environments--beguiled,
deluded, unconscious of the flight of time, serenely happy. Many come for a season, and wake
up after five or six years to find it is now their home. "There seems to exist in this country
a something which cheats the senses; whether it be in the air, the sunshine, or in the ocean
breeze, or in all three combined, I cannot say. Certainly the climate is not the home-made
common-sense article of the anti-Rocky Mountain States; and unreality is thrown round life--all
walk and work in a dream."

At Coronado Beach one rushes out after breakfast for an all-day excursion or morning tramp;
here one sits and sits, always intending to go somewhere or do something, until the pile of
unanswered letters accumulates and the projected trips weary one in a dim perspective. It is
all so beautiful, so new, so wonderful! San Diego is the Naples of America, with the San Jacinto
Mountains for a background and the blue sunlit bay to gaze upon, and one of the finest harbors
in the world. Yet with all this, few have the energy even to go a-fishing.

Now, as a truthful "tourist," I must admit that in the winter there are many days when the
sun does not shine, and the rainy season is not altogether cheerful for the invalid and the
stranger. Sunshine, glorious golden sunshine, is what we want all the time; but we do not get
it. I noticed that during the heavy rains the invalids retired to their rooms, overcome by
the chill and dampness, and some were seriously ill. But then they would have been in their
graves if they had remained in the East. There are many charming people residing in San Diego,
well, happy, useful, who know they can never safely return to their old homes.

There has been such a rosy glamour thrown over southern California by enthusiastic romancers
that many are disappointed when they fail to find an absolute Paradise.

Humboldt said of California: "The sky is constantly serene and of a deep blue, and without
a cloud; and should any clouds appear for a moment at the setting of the sun, they display
the most beautiful shades of violet, purple, and green."[1]

[Footnote 1: Humboldt had never been in Alta California, and procured this information in Mexico
or Spain.]

Now, after reading that, a real rainy day, when the water leaks through the roof and beats
in at the doors, makes a depressed invalid feel like a drenched fowl standing forlornly on
one leg in the midst of a New England storm. With snow-covered mountains on one side and the
ocean with its heavy fogs on the other, and the tedious rain pouring down with gloomy persistence,
and consumptives coughing violently, and physicians hurrying in to attend to a sudden hemorrhage
or heart-failure, the scene is not wholly gay and inspiriting. But when the sun comes forth
again and the flowers (that look to me a little tired of blooming all the time) brighten up
with fresh washed faces, and all vegetation rejoices and you can almost see things grow, and
the waves dance and glitter, and the mountains no longer look cold and threatening but seem
like painted scenery, a la Bierstadt, hung up for our admiration, and the valleys breathe the
spicy fragrance of orange blossoms, we are once more happy, and ready to rave a little ourselves
over the much-talked-of "bay 'n' climate." But there are dangers even on the sunniest day.
I know a young physician who came this year on a semi-professional tour, to try the effects
of inhalations on tuberculosis, and it was so delightfully warm that he straightway took off
his flannels, was careless about night air, and was down with pneumonia.

The tourist or traveller who writes of San Diego usually knows nothing of it but a week or
two in winter or early spring.

Southern California has fifty-two weeks in the year, and for two thirds of this time the weather
is superb.

I can imagine even a mission Indian grunting and complaining if taken to our part of the country
in the midst of a week's storm. We flee from deadly horrors of climate to be fastidiously critical.
If, in midsummer, sweltering sufferers in New York or Chicago could be transported to this
land they would not hurry away. The heat is rarely above eighty-five degrees, and nearly always
mitigated by a refreshing breeze from the bay. I am assured that there have not been five nights
in as many years when one or more blankets have not been necessary for comfort. In summer everything
is serene. No rain, no thunder-storms, no hail, or water-spouts. (The dust pest is never spoken
of!) The picnic can be arranged three weeks ahead without an anxious thought about the weather.
The summer sunsets are marvellously beautiful.

One must summer and winter here before he can judge fairly, and the hyper-sensitive should
tarry in New Mexico or in the desert until spring. I believe that rheumatic or neuralgic invalids
should avoid the damp resorts to which they are constantly flocking only to be dissatisfied.
Every sort of climate can be found in the State, so that no one has the right to grumble.

Do not take off flannels, although the perspiration does trickle down the side of your face
as you sit in the sun. A fur cape is always needed to protect one shoulder from a chilling
breeze while the other side is toasted. It is not safe for new-comers to be out-of-doors after
four or five o'clock in the afternoon, nor must they ride in open cars except in the middle
of the day. These innocent diversions give the doctors their support.

Bill Nye, with his usual good sense, refused to drive in a pouring rain to view the scenery
and orchards when visiting San Diego in March, and says: "Orange orchards are rare and beautiful
sights, but when I can sit in this warm room, gathered about a big coal fire, and see miles
of them from the window, why should I put on my fur overcoat and a mackintosh in order to freeze
and cry out with assumed delight every half-mile while I gradually get Pomona of the lungs?"

There are many places worth visiting if you can rouse yourselves for the effort. Point Loma,
twelve miles distant, gives a wonderful view, one of the finest in the world. I warrant you
will be so famished on arriving that you will empty every lunch-basket before attending to
the outlook. National City, Sweet Water Dam, Tia Juana (Aunt Jane), La Jolla--you will hear
of all these. I have tried them and will report.

