

The same letter affords a glimpse of the social position, which John and Elizabeth Yeardley
occupied at Bentham:--

We are very quiet, have kind neighbors, a very pleasant habitation, and little society, plenty
of books both of the religious and amusing kind, and leisure to meditate on the one thing needful,
which is to fit us for that place to which we are fast hastening:--

     "For who the longest lease enjoy
       Have told us with a sigh,
     That to be born seems little more
       Than to begin to die."

(13th of Seventh Month, 1818.)

John Yeardley, no less than his wife, found in Bentham a seasonable retreat from the harassing
cares of the world. A memorandum made in the autumn of this year shows that the doubts with
which he was perplexed on the subject of his removal from Barnsley, were entirely dispelled,
and that the change in his abode and position had been the happy means of relieving him from
the load of anxiety which once seemed ready to crush him.

1819. 9 mo. 15.--The tender, merciful Father who shelters our heads in battle has covered mine
when many things were hot upon me. He has provided a retreat for me until the fury of the oppressor
be overpast. I have often wondered at the cause which drove me from my former residence, but
I now begin to see pointedly the hand of Providence bringing me to this place of quiet retreat.
Should He who has brought me thus far see it to be for my good to set me on the banks of deliverance,
may I have no desire to live for anything but to sing his praise! 

"Are you not ashamed to plead it? You know you would go then not for others, but to throw away your
own life! You are tired of living, and you seek that way to rid yourself of life! Confess it at
once!"

"Very well, then," answered Ernest, "it is so."

"Then do not sully a good cause with a traitor's help," said Violet, "nor take its noble name.
The life you offer would be worth no more than a spent ball. You have been a coward in your
own fight, and Garibaldi does not-- nor does Italy-- want a coward in his ranks. Oh, Ernest, forgive
me my hard words! but it is our life that you are spending so freely, it is our blood that you
want to pour out! If you cannot live for yourself, for me, will you
not live for Harry's sake?"

"For
you, for you, Heart's-Ease!" exclaimed Ernest, calling Violet by one of her old childish names,
"But Harry lives for you, and you for him; and God knows there is no life left for me. But you
are right: I am a coward and a bungler, because I can create no life.

I give myself to you and him."

Violet stood long before the statue of Psyche, cold as the marble,
with hot fires raging within.

"He
loves me, loves me as Harry does! His love is deeper, perhaps,-- higher,
perhaps.

He was not above me,-- he lifted me above himself, looked up to me!
He dies for me!"

Presently she found Ernest.

"Ernest, you say you will do as we wish. I must go home directly, and without you. I shall take a
vessel from Leghorn. Harry and I planned my going home that way. It is less expensive, more
direct; and I confess I do not feel so strong about going home alone as I did in coming. My
head is full of thoughts, and I could not take care of myself; but
I would rather go alone.

You will stay here, and we will write to you, or Harry will come for you. But you must take care
of yourself; you must not starve yourself."

Her Italian friends accompanied her to the vessel and bade her good-bye,
Ernest was with them.

She wrote to Harry the day she sailed. The vessel looked comfortable enough; it was well-laden,
and in its hold was the marble statue of a great man,-- great in
worth as well as in weight.

A few weeks after Violet left, Harry appeared in Florence.

He had just missed her letter.

"I came to bring you both home," he said. "I finished my contract successfully, and gave myself this
little vacation."

Harry was dismayed to find that Violet was gone.

"But we will return directly, and arrive in time, perhaps, to greet
her as she gets home."

Monica urged,-- "But you must not keep him long.

See how much he has done in Italy! You will see he must come back again." "Monsieur" had been for
his statue, and was to send for it the next day, more than satisfied
with it.

Harry was astonished. "Five hundred dollars! It would take me long enough to work that out!
Ah, Ernest, your hammering is worth more than mine!"

Harry's surprise was not merely for the money earned.

When he saw the white marble figure, which brought into the poor room where it stood grandeur and
riches and life and grace, he wondered still more.

"I see now," he said. "You spent your life on this.

No wonder you were starving when your spirit was putting itself into this mould!" Harry was in
a hurry to return. Ernest's little affairs were quickly settled.

Harry was surprised to find Italian life was so like home life in this one thing: he had been treated
so kindly, just as he would have been in his own home,-- just as
Mrs. Schroder, and even Aunt Martha, would have treated a poor Italian
stranger who had sought a lodging in their house; they had welcomed
Harry with the same warmth and feeling with which they had all along
cared for Ernest.

This was something that Harry knew how to translate. "When we were boys," he said to Ernest, as they
set out to return, "and you used to talk about Europe, we little thought I should travel into it
so carelessly as I did when I came here. I crossed it much as a pair of compasses would on the
map: my only points of rest were the home I left and the one I was reaching for." Much in the same
way they passed through it again. Harry spoke of and observed outward things, but everything showed
that it was but a superficial observation.

His thoughts were with Violet. "'The Nereïd!'are you very sure the Nereïd is a sound vessel?"
he often asked. "What should I know of the Nereïd?" at last answered
Ernest, impatiently.

"I believe you don't care a rush for Violet!" cried Harry. "You can have dreams instead! Your Psyche,
your winged angels and all your visions, they suffice you.

While for me,-- I tell you, Ernest, she is my flesh and blood, my meat and drink. To think of
her alone on that ocean drives me wild; that inexorable sea haunts
me night and day."

He turned
to look at Ernest, and saw him pale and livid. "God forgive me!"
he said.

"I know you love her, too!

But it is our old quarrel; we cannot understand each other, yet cannot
live either of us without the other.

Yet I am glad to quarrel even in the old way. That is pleasant, after all, is it not?" They had
a long, stormy voyage home; and a delay in crossing France had made them miss the steamer they hoped
to take. At each delay, Ernest grew more silent, sadder, his face darker, his features thinner
and more sharpened.

Harry was wild in his impatience, and angry, but more and more thoughtful and careful for Ernest. At
last they reached the harbor.

A friend met them who had been warned of their arrival by telegraph
from Halifax.

He met them to tell them of ill news; they would rather hear it from him. The Nereïd was lost,-- lost
just outside the Bay,-- the vessel, the crew, all the passengers,--
in a fearful storm of a week ago, the very storm that had delayed
their own passage.

"Let us go home," said Harry. "Where is it?" asked Ernest. "Why were
we not lost in the same storm?" cried Harry.

"How
could we pass quietly along the very place?" The brothers went home into the old room. Kindly hands
had been caring for it,-- had tried to place all things in their
accustomed order.

Even the canary had come back from Aunt Martha's parlor. There was
a letter on the table. Harry saw that only. It was Violet's letter, which
she wrote on leaving Leghorn.

He tore it from its cover,-- then gave it, opened, to Ernest.

"You must read it for me,-- I cannot!" and he hurried into an inner room. Ernest held the letter
helplessly and looked round.

For him there was a double desolation in the room. The books stood untouched upon the shelves; his
mother's work-basket was laid aside.

Suddenly
there came back to him the memory of that last day at home,-- the joyous spring-day in March,-- which was so
full of gay sounds.

The clatter of the dropping ice, the happy laugh of the water breaking
into freedom, the song of the canary, now hushed by the presence of
strangers,-- the thoughts of these made gay even that moment of parting.

And with them came the image of the dear mother and of the warm-hearted Violet. Oh, the parting was
happier than the return! Now there was silence in the room, and absence,-- such unuse about all things,--
such a terrible stillness! He longed for a voice, for a sound, for words. In his hands were words,
her own, her last words.

Half unconsciously he read through the letter, as if unwillingly too,
because it might not belong to him. Yet they were her words, and for
him. "DEAR HARRY,--" Do you know that I love him?-- that I love Ernest?

I ought to have known it, just because I did not know how to confess it
to myself or you.

I thought he was above us both; and when I pitied myself that he could not love me, I pitied you,
and my pity, perhaps, I mistook for love of you.

Perhaps I mistook it, for I know not but I was conscious all the
time of loving him.

I learned the truth when I stood by the side of his Psyche, and saw, that, though she hovered from
the marble, though he had won fame and success, he was unsatisfied still. It is true, he must
always remain unsatisfied, because it is his genius that thirsts,
and it is my ideal that he loves, not me.

But he is dying; he asks for me.

You never could refuse him what he asked.

You will give me to him? If you were not so generous and noble-hearted, I could not ask you both for
your pardon and your pity. But you are both, and will do with me as you will. "Your" VIOLET. "As
Ernest finished reading, as he was fully comprehending the meaning of the words which at first had
struck him idly, Harry opened the door and came in. Ernest could not look up at first. He thought,
perhaps, he was about to darken the sorrow already heavy enough upon his brother. But when Harry
spoke and Ernest looked into his face, he saw there the usual clear, strong expression." I am going to
tell you, Ernest, what I should have said before,-- what I went to Florence to tell you. "After
Violet left, the whole truth began to come upon me. She loved you; I had no right to her. She pitied
me; that was why she clung to me. You know I cannot think quickly.

It was long before it all came out clearly; but when it did come,
I was anxious to act directly.

I had finished my work; I went to tell you that Violet was yours;
she should stay with you in that warm Italian sir that you liked so
much; she should bring you back to life.

But
I was too late. I know not if it is my failure that has brought about this sorrow, or if God has
taken it into His own hands. I only know that she was yours living, she is yours now. I must tell you
that in the first moment of that terrible shock of the loss, there
came a wicked, selfish gleam of gladness that I had not given her
up to you.

But I have wiped that out with my tears, and I can tell you without
shame that is yours, that I have given her to you."

"We
can both love her now," said Ernest. "If she were living, she might have separated us," said Harry;
"but since God has taken her, she makes us one."

And the brothers read together Violet's letter.***** THE NEW ATLANTIC CABLE. When the indefatigable
Cyrus told our people, five years ago, that he was going to lay a telegraph-cable in the bed of the ocean
between America and Europe, and place New York and London in instantaneous communication, our
wide-awake and enterprising fellow-citizens said very coolly that they should like to see him
do it!-- a phrase intended to convey the idea that in their opinion he had promised a great
deal more than he could perform. But Cyrus was as good as his word. The cable was laid, and worked
for the space of three weeks, conveying between the Old and New World four hundred messages of
all sorts, and some of them of the greatest importance. Four years have elapsed since the
fulfilment of that promise, and now Mr. Field comes again before the public and announces that a
new Atlantic cable is going to be laid down, which is not only going
to work, but is to be a permanent success; and this promise will likewise
be fulfilled.

You may shrug your shoulders, my friend, and look incredulous, but
I assure you the grand idea will be realized, and speedily.

I have been heretofore as incredulous as any one; but having examined the evidence in its favor,
I am fully convinced not only of the feasibility of laying a cable,
and of the certainty of its practical operation when laid, but of
its complete indestructibility.

If you will accompany me through the following pages, my doubting
friend, I will convince you of the correctness of my conclusions.

When the fact of the successful laying of the old Atlantic cable
was known, there was no class of people in this country more surprised
at the result than the electricians, engineers, and practical telegraphers.

Meeting a friend of mine, an electrician, and who, by the way, is
also a great mathematician, and, like all of his class, inclined to
be very exact in his statements, I exclaimed, in all the warmth and
exuberance of feeling engendered by so great an event,-- "Isn't it
glorious, this idea of being able to send our lightning across the
ocean, and to talk with London and Paris as readily as we do with
New York and New Orleans?"

"It is, indeed," responded my friend, with equal enthusiasm; "my hopes are more than realized by this wonderful
achievement." "Hopes realized!" exclaimed I. "Why, I didn't consider there was one chance in a thousand
of success,-- did you?" "Why, yes," replied my exact mathematical friend;
"I didn't think the chances so much against the success of the enterprise
as that. From the deductions which I drew from a very careful examination
of all the facts I could obtain, I concluded that the chances of
absolute failure were about ninety-seven and a half per cent.!"

For many of the facts contained in this article I am indebted to the very clear and able address
delivered by Mr. Cyrus W. Field before the American Geographical and Statistical Society, at
Clinton Hall, New York, in May last, upon the prospects of the Atlantic
telegraph.

At the start, of course, every one was very ignorant of the work to be done in establishing
a telegraph across the ocean. Submarine telegraphy was in its infancy, and aërial telegraphy
had scarcely outgrown its swaddling-clothes. We had to grope our way in the dark. It was only by repeated
experiments and repeated failures that we were able to find out all the conditions of success.
The Atlantic telegraph, it is said by some, was a failure. Well, if it were so, replies Mr.
Field, I should say (as is said of many a man, that he did more by
his death than by his life) that even in its failure it has been of
immense benefit to the science of the world, for it has been the
great experimenting cable.

No electrician ever had so long a line to work upon before; and hence the science of submarine telegraphy
never made such rapid progress as after that great experiment.

In fact, all cables that have since been laid, where the managers availed themselves of the knowledge and
experience obtained by the Atlantic cable, have been perfectly successful. All these triumphs over the sea
are greatly indebted to the bold attempt to cross the Atlantic made four years ago. The first Atlantic
cable, therefore, has accomplished a great work in deep-sea telegraphy, a branch of the art
but little known before. In one sense it was a failure.

In another it was a brilliant success. Despite every disadvantage,
it was laid across the ocean; it was stretched from shore to shore;
and for three weeks it continued to operate,-- a time long enough
to settle forever the scientific question whether it was possible
to communicate between two continents so far apart.

This was the work of the first Atlantic telegraph; and if it lies silent at the bottom of the
ocean till the destruction of the globe, it has done enough for the
science of the world and the benefit of mankind to entitle it to be
held in honored and blessed memory.

Now, as to the prospect of success in another attempt to lay a telegraph across the ocean. The
most erroneous opinions
prevail as to the difficulties of laying submarine telegraphs in
general, and securing them against injury. It is commonly supposed
that the number of failures is much greater than of successes; whereas
the fact is, that the later attempts, where made with proper care, have
been almost uniformly successful.

In proof of
this I will refer to the printed "List of all the Submarine Telegraph-Cables
manufactured and laid down by Messrs. Glass, Elliot,& Co., of London,"
from which it appears that within the space of eight years, from 1854
to 1862, they have manufactured and laid down twenty-five different
cables, among which are included three of the longest lines connecting
England with the Continent,-- namely, from England to Holland, 140
miles, to Hanover, 280 miles, and to Denmark, 368 miles,-- and the
principal lines in the Mediterranean,-- as from Italy to Corsica and
thence to Toulon, from Malta to Sicily, and from Corfu to Otranto,
and besides these, the two chief of all, that from France to Algiers,
520 miles, laid in 1860, and the other, laid only last year, from
Malta to Alexandria, 1,535 miles!

All together
the lines laid by these manufacturers comprise a total of 3,739 miles; and though
some have been lying at the bottom of the sea and working for eight years,
each one of them is at this hour in as perfect condition as on the
day it was laid down, with the exception of the two short lines laid in
shallow water along the shore between Liverpool and Holyhead, 25 miles,
and from Prince Edward's Island to New Brunswick, 11 miles; the latter
of which was broken by a ship's anchor, and the former by the anchor
of the Royal Charter during the gale in which she was wrecked, both
of which can be easily repaired.

Where failures have occurred in submarine telegraphs, the
causes are now well understood and easily to be avoided. Thus with
the first Atlantic cable, its defects have all been carefully investigated
by scientific men, and may be easily guarded against. When this cable
was in process of manufacture in the factory of Messrs. Glass, Elliot,&
Co., in Greenwich, near London, it was coiled in four large vats,
and there left exposed, day after day, to the heat of a summer sun,
which was intensified by the tarred coating of the cable to one hundred
and twenty degrees.

Just before the occurrence of the last dream, his faith in the heavenly source of the invitation
which, whether waking or sleeping, he had received, to go over and help his Christian brethren
on the Continent, was confirmed by a prophetic message from John Kirkham, who, in the course
of his religious travels, again visited Yorkshire.

8 mo.--Our dear friend, John Kirkham, from Earl's Colne, Essex, slept at our house on Second-day,
the 7th, and had a meeting with our few on Third-day. How wonderfully was he enlarged; and
I could not but admire how he was favored to speak to the states of some present. I could set
my seal to every word he uttered, and say, This is the very truth. Before he left us he had
a select opportunity in our family, and said a great deal stout being faithful to our own vision.
He seemed to answer a question in my mind as fully as I had any right to expect; for I had
almost asked it as a sign that if I were not deceived in my vision he should be led to speak
on the subject. He said emphatically, "We cannot be faithful to the vision of another man,
we do not know it except it be revealed to us; but we must be FAITHFUL TO OUR OWN VISION."

On the 9th I accompanied him to the Monthly Meeting at Settle, and I once more desired that,
if my feeling in former times had not deceived me, this servant of the Lord might be led to
speak on the same subject; and indeed he scarcely said anything else but what had the strongest
bearing on my request. What encouraging favors do I receive at the hands of so good a Master!

A few months later we find the charge to foreign labor renewed, with intimation of the wide
field in which he would have to work; an intimation which was amply verified in his future travels.

11 mo. 26.--At meeting something involuntarily entered my mind like this, I will make thee
a preacher of righteousness to many nations. I felt not only a desire to be made willing to
be sent, but also a desire to be prepared.

A few days after noting this impression he thus communes with himself on this topic, which
now began to absorb the greater portion of his thoughts.

12 mo. 3, First-day.--As I walked alone to the meeting this morning, I thought within myself,
What can be the cause that I so often feel drawn in spirit towards the land of ----? My thoughts
have now for a long time past so frequently and so involuntarily revolved on the subject that
I begin to be very jealous over them, and to query whether it is the workings of self-imaginations.
If this is the case, O that I may be relieved from them. But however unaccountable my feelings
may be, a secret love towards some unknown souls in ---- is so strong at times, that if I had
wings I should for my own inward peace visit them in body as I now do in spirit. It seems as
if my spiritual eye saw in those parts what we may call a seed (the seed of the kingdom sown
in the heart) that wants to take root downwards and spring upwards, but which is almost choked
with the tares of superstition. Are there not scattered up and down in ----, many whose souls
are verging from under the clouds of thick darkness, and from under the bonds of idolatrous
superstition, towards that glorious liberty which is brought to light by the gospel? Something
in me secretly craves an opportunity to tell those precious creatures that the time appears
near at hand when this glorious gospel light will shine so clearly that they will discover
a Saviour in the secret of their own hearts; and it is to him (I could tell them) that they
must look for the perfection of their salvation. Should there be anything of the right savor
in my heart concerning this matter, I humbly hope that in due time it will be brought to maturity,
and my way made plain and easy--plain, so that I cannot possibly mistake the pointing hand
of divine wisdom, and easy, so that when I hear the command I may be enabled to obey.

A very instructive time at meeting. The subject abovementioned glanced in my view, and with
it the Dover-failing objection, If I am at all "apt to teach," can it or will it be required
of me to leave those here and others in this land who have need of instruction? This objection
was immediately answered in a way which I never before experienced. They have, besides many
teachers, the unerring light of Jesus in their own hearts unto which they know they ought alone
to look for direction. And if they neglect or overlook the means in themselves, it is not in
my power, a poor instrument, to do them any good. So it may be said of others to whom I may
apprehend myself called. It all revolves on this single and important point,--What is the divine
will concerning me? If I can only know this and am enabled to do it, all will be well.

In the Autumn he attended Liverpool Quarterly Meeting, an occasion which was one of the most
memorable seasons of his life. His narrative of it is very characteristic:--

9 mo. 19.--My dear wife and I left home to attend Liverpool Quarterly Meeting. Through mercy
we arrived safe there, but I, as usual when from home, felt very low and poor in spirit, and
was ready to call in question my coming to the place. For although I received, as I thought,
a proper signal before I left home, yet one or two circumstances occurred to discourage me
from going, which I pressed through with some firmness; however, such was my uneasiness the
first night in Liverpool, that I was very desirous, if my being there was in right wisdom,
something might turn up to convince me that I had not done wrong in leaving home. And blessed
be the name of Jesus, I had not been long in the first meeting (their Monthly Meeting the day
before the Quarterly,) before I was perfectly satisfied. There were present Willett Hicks and
Huldah Sears from America, and Mary Watson from Ireland. In the early part of the meeting my
mind was engaged in meditating on--"God will enlarge Japhet and dwell in the tents of Shem,"
and so it proved. The silence was broken by W. Hicks with these words: "Great men are not always
wise, neither do the ancients understand wisdom." Others present were much favored, and the
meeting ended in heavenly harmony.

After it was over I found to my surprise and joy, my brother and sister from Barnsley, whom
I had expected to come to Bentham to accompany us to Liverpool, and their not coming to Bentham
first was one of the causes which had discouraged me in leaving home; for I once had concluded,
in my wavering, to leave my going for their determination, thinking if they came it would be
the means of getting me off, if not, I should give it up; but it so fell out that they took
the nearest way to meet us there, without writing us word, and it would have been a great disappointment
had I not been there. I should not have written so much about a seeming trifle but to show
the necessity of firmness in doing what is pointed out, unless some reasonable cause prevents.

Now to the opening of the Quarterly Meeting for worship, which was like the day of Pentecost,
when the place was filled with a rushing mighty wind from heaven. It was indeed applicable;
for all seemed athirst, and were invited and admitted to drink of the waters of life freely;
those who were afar off drew nigh, and those who were near were enabled to acknowledge the
might of Him who had called them to his footstool, and crowned them with his presence. Huldah
Sears and Mary Watson were also much favored in testimony. What opened on my mind to express
was this: "God speaketh once, yea, twice; yet man perceiveth it not." I thought we were bound
to acknowledge that our God still reigned in Israel, and was condescending to speak to his
people. Immediately afterwards M.R. appeared a long time in supplication, and then H.S. both
very powerfully; so that goodness seemed to rise higher and higher, until we swam in divine
life. This blessed, heavenly meeting will be remembered by some to the latest period of time.

After this event John Yeardley speaks of being favored with more enlargement of love towards
the members of his small meeting; and also of having, when attending a public meeting at Wray
with Joseph Wood, to kneel down in prayer for the congregation.

10 mo. 20.--To my humbling admiration, he writes, I had in the conclusion to kneel down and
call on the name of the holy and high God of the whole earth, that he would be pleased to continue
the blessing which he had already condescended to pour down on our heads. This is a most awful
act of worship: I trust the intimation to it was attended with proper weightiness of spirit.

This meeting was a remarkable season, and is thus described in Joseph Wood's journal:--

Bentham, 10 mo. 20.--We [J.W. and James Harrison] set out for Wray, our beloved friend John
Yeardley being our guide. We called by the way at Thomas Barrow's, of Wenington Hall, and drank
tea; then proceeded to Wray. There were but few Friends here, but they have a very large ancient
meeting-house, and my concern being principally towards the inhabitants, and proper information
thereof being given, abundance attended; the meeting-house both above and below stairs was
pretty well filled; and their behavior was deserving of commendation. The Lord's presence eminently
crowned the assembly, and the truths of the gospel were largely and livingly declared amongst
them, and it was a time of extraordinary favor to many. I had first a long testimony to bear
therein, from Luke iv. 41. But children require not only an alternation of physical and mental amusements,
but some instruction to be passively received. They delight in stories, and a wise teacher can
make this subservient to the highest uses by reading beautiful creations of the imagination. Not only
such household-stories as "Sanford and Merton," Mrs. Farrar's "Robinson Crusoe," and Salzmann's "Elements
of Morality," but symbolization like the heroes of Asgard, the legends of the Middle Ages,
classic and chivalric tales, the legend of Saint George, and "Pilgrim's Progress," can in the
mouth of a skilful reader be made subservient to moral culture. The reading sessions should not
exceed ten or fifteen minutes.

Anything of the nature of scientific teaching should be done by presenting objects for examination
and investigation. [C] Flowers and insects, shells, etc., are easily handled. The observations
should be drawn out of the children, not made to them, except as corrections of their mistakes. Experiments
with the prism, and in crystallization and transformation, are useful and desirable to awaken
taste for the sciences of Nature.

In short, the Kindergarten should give the beginnings of everything. "What is well begun is half
done."

[Footnote C: Calkin's Object Lessons will give hints.] We must say
a word about the locality and circumstances of a Kindergarten.

There is published in Lausanne, France, a newspaper devoted to the interests of this mode of
education, in whose early numbers is described a Kindergarten; which seems to be of the nature
of a boarding-school, or, at least, the children are there all day.
Each child has a garden, and there is one besides where they work
in common.

There are accommodations for keeping animals, and miniature tools to do mechanical labor of various kinds.
In short, it is a child's world. But in this country, especially in New England, parents would
not consent to be so much separated from their children, and a few hours of Kindergarten in the
early part of the day will serve an excellent purpose,-- using up the effervescent activity of
children, who may healthily be left to themselves the rest of the time, to play or rest, comparatively
unwatched. Two rooms are indispensable, if there is any variety
of age.

It is desirable that one should be sequestrated to the quiet employments. A pianoforte is desirable,
to lead the singing, and accompany the plays, gymnastics, frequent marchings, and dancing, when
that is taught,-- which it should be. But a hand-organ which plays fourteen tunes will help to
supply the want of a piano, and a guitar in the hands of a ready teacher will do better than nothing.
Sometimes a genial mother and daughters might have a Kindergarten,
and devote themselves and the house to it, especially if they live
in one of our beautiful country-towns or cities.

The habit, in the city of New York, of sending children to school in an omnibus, hired to go round
the city and pick them up, suggests the possibility of a Kindergarten in one of those beautiful
residences up in town, where there is a garden before or behind the house.
It is impossible to keep Kindergarten by the way. It must be the main
business of those who undertake it; for it is necessary that every
individual child should be borne, as it were, on the heart of the
garteners, in order that it be inspired with order, truth, and goodness.

To develop a child from within outwards, we must plunge ourselves into its peculiarity of imagination
and feeling. No one person could possibly endure such absorption, of life in labor unrelieved,
and consequently two or three should unite in the undertaking in
order to be able to relieve each other from the enormous strain on
life.

The compensations are, however, great. The charm of the various individuality, and of the refreshing
presence of conscience yet unprofaned, is greater than can be found elsewhere in this work-day
world. Those were not idle words which came from the lips of Wisdom Incarnate:-- "Their angels
do always behold the face of my Father": "Of such is the kingdom of heaven." A PICTURE. [AFTER WITHER.]
Sweet child, I prithee stand, While I try my novel hand At a portrait of thy face, With its simple
childish grace. Cheeks as soft and finely hued As the fleecy cloud imbued With the roseate tint
of morn Ere the golden sun is born:-- Lips that like a rose-hedge curl, Guarding well the gates of pearl,-- What
care I for pearly gate?

By the rose-hedge will I wait:-- Chin that rounds with outline fine,
Melting off in hazy line; As in misty summer noon, Or beneath the
harvest moon, Curves the smooth and sandy shore, Flowing off in dimness
hoar:-- Eyes that roam like timid deer Sheltered by a thicket near,
Peeping out between the boughs, Or that, trusting, safely browse:--
Arched o'er all the forehead pure, Giving us the prescience sure Of
an ever-growing light; As in deepening summer night, Over fields to
ripen soon Hangs the silver crescent moon.***** TWO AND ONE.

I. The winter sun streamed pleasantly into the room.

On the tables lay the mother's work of the morning,-- the neatly folded clothes she had just been
ironing.

A window was opened a little way to let some air into the room too
closely heated by the brisk fire. The air fanned the leaves of the
ivy-plant that stood in the window, and of the primrose which seemed
ready to open in the warm sun.

Above, there hung a cage, and a canary-bird shouted out now and then its pleasure at the sunny
day, with a half-dream perhaps of a tropical climate in the tropical air with which the coal-fire
filled the room. Mrs. Schroder leaned back in her old-fashioned rocking-chair, and folded her
hands, one over the other, ready to rest after her morning's labor. She was willing to take the repose
won by her work; indeed, this was the only way she had managed to
preserve her strength for all the work it was necessary for her to
do.

She had been conscious that her powers had answered for just so much
and no more, and she had never been able to make further demands upon
them.

When years before she was left a widow, with two sons to support
and educate, all her friends and neighbors prophesied that her health
would prove unequal to either work, and agreed that it was very fortunate
that she had a rich relation or two to help her.

But, unfortunately, the rich relations preferred helping only in
their own way.

One uncle agreed to send the older boy to his father's relations in Germany, while the other
wished to take the younger with him to his home in the South; and an aunt-in-law promised Mrs.
Schroder work enough as seamstress to support herself. It is singular
how hard it is, for those who have large means and resources, to
understand how to supply the little wants and needs of those less
fortunate.

The smallest stream in the mountains will find its way through some little channel, over rocks,
or slowly through quiet meadows, into the great rivers, and finally feeds the deep sea, which
is very thankless, and thinks little of restoring what is so prodigally
poured into it. It only knows how to sway up with its grand tide upon
the broad beaches, or to wrestle with turreted rocks, or, for some
miles, perhaps, up the great rivers, it is willing to leave some flavor
of its salt strength.

So it is that we little ones, to the last, pour out our little stores into the great seas of wealth,--
and the Neptunes, the gods of riches, scarcely know how to return us our due, if they would.
When Mrs. Schroder, then, refused these kindly offers, because she knew that her husband had
wished his boys should be brought up together and in America, and because she could not separate
them from each other or from herself, the relations thought best
to leave her to her own will, and drew back, feeling that they had
done their part for humanity and kinship.

Now and then Mrs. Schroder received a present of a worn shawl or a bonnet out of date, and one
New Year there came inclosed a dollar-bill apiece for the boys. Ernest threw his into the fire
before his mother could stop him, while Harry said he would spend his for the very meanest thing
he could think of; and that very night he bought some sausages with
it, to satisfy, as he said, only their lowest wants.

Mrs. Schroder succeeded in carrying out her will, in spite of prophecy. Her very delicacy of body led
her to husband her strength, while the boys very early learned that they must help their mother
to get through her day's work.

Her feebleness of health helped her, too, in another way,-- by stopping their boy-quarrels. "Boys,
don't wrangle so! If you knew how it makes my head ache!" When these words came from the mother resting
in her chair, the quarrel ceased suddenly. It ended without settlement, to be sure, which is the
best way of finishing up quarrels. There are always seeds of new wars
sown in treaties of peace.

Austria is not content with her share of Poland, and Russia privately determines upon another bite of
Turkey. John thinks it very unjust that he must give up his ball to Tom, and resolves to have
the matter out when they get down into the street; while Tom, equally dissatisfied, feels that he
has been treated like a baby, and despises the umpire for the partial
decision. These two boys, indeed, had their perpetual quarrel.

Harry, the older, always got on in the world. He had a strong arm, a jolly face, and a solid opinion
of himself that made its way without his asking for it. Ernest, on the other hand, was obliged
to be constantly dependent on his brother for defence, for his position with other boys at school,--
as he grew up, for his position in life, even. Harry was the favorite always. The schoolmaster--
or teacher, as we call him nowadays-- liked Harry best, although he
was always in scrapes, and often behindhand in his studies, while
Ernest was punctual, quiet, and always knew his lessons, though his
eyes looked dreamily through his books rather than into them.

Harry had great respect for Ernest's talent, made way for it, would willingly work for him. Ernest
accepted these benefits: he could not help it, they were so generously offered. But the consciousness
that he could not live without them weighed him down and made him
moody.

He alternately reproached himself for his ingratitude, and his brother for his favors. Sometimes
he called himself a slave for being willing to accept them; at other times he would blame himself
as a tyrant for making such demands upon an elder brother. As Mrs. Schroder leaned back in her chair
after her morning's labor, the door opened, and a young girl came
into the room.

She had a fresh, bright face, a brown complexion, a full, round figure.

She came in quickly, nodded cheerily to Mrs. Schroder, and knelt down in front of the fire to
warm her hands. "I did want to come in this morning," she said,-- "the very last day! I should
have liked to help you about Ernest's things.

But Aunt Martha must needs have a supernumerary wash, and I have just come in from hanging the
last of the clothes upon the line." "It is very good of you, Violet," answered Mrs. Schroder,
"but I was glad to-day to have plenty to do. It is the thinking that troubles me. My boys are
grown up into men, and Ernest is going! It is our first parting. To-day
I would rather work than think."

Violet was the young girl's name. A stranger might think that the name did not suit her. In her manner
was nothing of the shrinking nature that is a characteristic of the violet. Timidity and reserve
she probably did have somewhere in her heart,-- as all women do,--
but it had never been her part to play them out.

She had all her life been called upon to show only energy, activity, and self-reliance. She was
an only child, and had been obliged to be son and daughter, brother and sister in one. Her
father was the owner of the house in which were the rooms occupied by Mrs. Schroder and her sons.
The little shop on the lower floor was his place of business. He was a watchmaker, had a few
clocks on the shelves of his small establishment, and a limited display of jewelry in the window,
together with a supply of watch-keys, and minute-hands and hour-hands
for decayed watches.

For though his sign proclaimed him a watchmaker, his occupation perforce
was rather that of repairing and cleaning watches and clocks than
in the higher branch of creation.

Violet's childhood was happy enough. She was left in unrestrained liberty outside of the little
back-parlor, where her Aunt Martha held sway. Out of school-hours, her joy and delight were
to join the school-boys in their wildest plays. She climbed fences, raced up and down alley-ways,
stormed inoffensive door-yards, chased wandering cats with the best
of them. She was a favorite champion among the boys,-- placed at difficult
points of espionage, whether it were over beast, man, woman, or boy.

She was proud of mounting some imaginary rampart, or defending some dangerous position. Sometimes
a taunt was hurled from the enemy upon her allies for associating with a "girl;" but it always received
a contemptuous answer,-- "You'd better look out, she could lick
any one of you!"

And at the reply, Violet would look down from her post on the picketed fence, shake her long
curls triumphantly, and climb to some place inaccessible to the enemy, to show how useful her agility
could be to her own party.

The time of sorrow came at twilight, when the boys separated for their
homes,-- when Harry and Ernest clattered up to their mother's rooms.

They could be boys still. They might throw open the house-doors with a shout and halloo, and
fling away caps and boots with no more than an uncared-for reprimand.

But Violet must go noiselessly through the dark entry, and, as she turned to close the door that
let her into the parlor, she was greeted by Aunt Martha's "Now do shut the door quietly!" As
she lowered the latch without any sound, she would say to herself, "Why is it that boys must
have all the fun, and girls all the work?"

She felt as if she shut out liberty and put on chains. Her work began then,-- to lay the tea-table,
to fetch and carry as Aunt Martha ordered. All this was pleasanter than the quiet evening that followed,
because she liked the occupation and motion. But to be quiet the whole evening, that was a trial!
After the tea-things were cleared away, she would sit awhile by the
stove, imagining all sorts of excitements in the combustion within;
but she could not keep still long without letting a clatter of shovel
and tongs, or some vigorous blows of the poker, show what a glorious
drum she thought the stove would make.

Or if Aunt Martha suggested her unloved and neglected dolls, she would retire to the corner with
them inevitably to come back in disgrace. Either the large wooden-headed doll came noisily down
from the high-backed chair, where she had been placed as the Maid of Saragossa, or a suspicious
smell of burning arose, when Joan of Arc really did take fire from the candle on her imaginary
funeral-pile.

Knitting was no more of a sedative, though for many years it had stilled Aunt Martha's nerves.
It was singular how the cat contrived always to get hold of Violet's
ball of yarn and keep it, in spite of Violet's activity and the jolly
chase she had for it all round the room, over chairs and under tables.

Even her father, during these long evenings, often looked up over his round spectacles, through
which he was perusing a volume of the "Encyclopedia," to wonder if Violet could never be quiet. As
she grew up, there was activity enough in her life, through which her temperament could let
off its steam: a large house to be cared for and kept in order, some of the lodgers to be waited
upon, and Aunt Martha, with her failing strength, more exacting than
ever.

Her evenings now were her happy times, for she frequently spent them in Mrs. Schroder's room.
One of the economies in the Schroders'life was that their pleasures were so cheap. What with
Harry's genial gayety and Ernest's spiritual humor, and the gayety and humor of the friends
that loved them, they did not have to pay for their hilarity on the
stage. There were quiet evenings and noisy ones, and Violet liked
them both.

She liked to study languages with Ernest; she liked the books from
the City Library that they read aloud,-- romances that were taken
for Mrs. Schroder's pleasure, Ruskins which Ernest enjoyed, and Harry's
favorites, which, to tell the truth, were few.

He begged to be made the reader,-- otherwise, he confessed, he was in danger of falling asleep.
Violet had grown up into a woman, and the boys had become men; and
now she was kneeling in front of Mrs. Schroder's fire.

"Ernest's last day at home," she said, dreamily. "Oh, now I begin to pity Harry!" "To pity Harry?"
said Mrs. Schroder. "Yes, indeed! But it is Ernest that I think of most. He is going away among strangers.
He depends upon Harry far more than Harry depends upon him." "It is just that," said Violet. "Harry
has always been the one to give. But it will be changed now, when Ernest comes home. You see,
he will be great then. He has been dependent upon us, all along, because genius must move so slowly
at first; but when he comes back, he will be above us, and, oh! how shall we know where to find
him?" "You do not mean that my boy will look down upon his mother?" said Mrs. Schroder, raising
herself in her chair. "Look down upon us?" cried Violet.

"Oh, no! it is only the little that do that, that they may appear to be high. The truly great
never look down. They are kneeling already, and they look up. If they only would look down upon
us! But it is the old story: the body can do for a while without the spirit, can make its way in
the world for a little, and meantime the spirit is dependent upon the
body.

Of course it could not live without the body,-- what we call life. But by-and-by spirit must
assert itself, and find its wings. And where, oh, where, will it rise to? Above us,-- above us
all!" "How strangely you talk!" said Mrs. Schroder, looking into
Violet's face. "What has this to do with poor Ernest?" "I was thinking
of poor Harry," said Violet. "All this time he has been working for
Ernest.

Harry has earned the money with which Ernest goes abroad,-- which he has lived upon all these years,--
not only his daily bread, but what his talent, his genius, whatever it is, has fed itself with.
Ernest is too unpractical to have been able even to feed himself!"
"And he knows it, my poor Ernest!" said Mrs. Schroder.

"This is why he should be pitied. It is hard for a generous nature to owe all to another. It has
weighed Ernest down; it has embittered the love of the two brothers."
"But it is more bitter for Harry," persisted Violet.

"All this time Ernest could think of the grand return he could bring
when his time should come. But Harry! He brings the clay out of which
Ernest moulds the statue; but the spirit that Ernest breathes into
the form,-- will Harry understand it or appreciate it?

The body is very reverent of the soul. But I think the spirit is not
grateful enough to the body.

There comes a time when it says to it,'I can do without thee!'and spurns the kind comrade which
has helped it on so far. Yet it could not have done without the joy of color and form, of sight
and hearing, that the body has helped it to." "You do not mean that Ernest will ever spurn
Harry?-- they are brothers!" said poor Mrs. Schroder. She sweetly fell asleep in the bosom
of her Saviour, at one o'clock this morning. The closing scene was perfect ease and peace.
From the first of her illness she seemed aware how it would terminate, and was perfectly resigned.
During our being at Bentham she has often said it was a place provided by Providence to afford
her that religious retirement she had long desired, and which she took the most scrupulous
care to improve. When in health she would tell me of late that perhaps she might be taken away
in order to set me more fully at liberty to do the Lord's work.

11 mo. 18.--This day two weeks was the solemn ceremony of committing to the silent dust the
remains of my very precious and dearly beloved Elizabeth. I had dreaded the day very much;
but through prayer, mixed with a degree of faith, which was mercifully granted, I was wonderfully
supported. In the meeting I felt the divine influence so near, and so to prevail over my spirit,
that I was constrained publicly to thank the Father of mercies for his goodness.

This day I visited, perhaps for the last time, the place which encloses the cold relics of
one so dearly beloved; and as I stood weeping over the grave, it sprang in my heart, She is
not here but (she) is risen. What an unspeakable consolation to be enabled to leave the dust
behind, and hold sweet communion and converse with the spirit. Ever since her departure it
feels as though her spirit had never left me, but was hovering and fluttering around me to
administer comfort on every afflicting occasion; and O, saith my spirit, that this precious
feeling may remain with me for ever.

12 mo. 20.--I feel to lament the loss of my dear lamb more than ever, at least so far as I
dare. No one but myself knows the comfort which the late awful event has deprived me of; but
I no sooner remember the hand which administered it than all complaining is hushed into silence,
and I am made to rejoice that she is so safely deposited where trouble cannot reach.

From this moment John Yeardley felt himself quite free to pursue the path of duty which had
been opened before him, viz., to go and reside in Germany.

In the Eleventh Month he left Bentham to sojourn awhile with his brother, and on the 9th of
the First Month, 1822, he received a certificate of removal from Settle Monthly Meeting, addressed
to the Friends of Pyrmont and Minden, which certified that he was a member of the Society of
Friends, and a minister well approved by the church.

Before we pursue further the sequence of events, two passages from the diary may be here transcribed,
which could not have been inserted in the order of time without interrupting the narrative.
The first of these conveys a lesson of practical wisdom, and exhibits the method by which the
writer was able to succeed and to excel in what he undertook. It is the true comprehension
and resolute acting upon maxims such as these, which makes so much of the difference between
one man and another.

1821. 7 mo. 2.--No man can excel in everything; therefore it is highly important for each mind
to consider attentively for what it is calculated, and what end it is designed to answer by
him who created it. As secular affairs are often more expedited by a judicious arrangement,
than by hard doing indiscriminately at the mass; so will undertakings of superior importance
be more advantageously attained by keeping a single eye, and looking for best direction to
make a proper selection of what ought to be done and what ought not to be done. I was long
too much wavering on this head, to my great loss; but I now hope it is become a settled point,
find I have clearly seen for what service I am designed in the church militant here on earth;
therefore, through the assistance of divine grace, I hope to pursue nothing but in subordination
to this main design. For a little mind to aim at great things would be to thwart the whole;
but to endeavor to be faithful in small things, seems to be the way to attain the end.

From the other entry we shall extract only a few words, but they are words fraught with deep
instruction:--

9 mo. 7.--"Without holiness no man shall see the Lord." Without purity of heart we cannot see
the pointing of the Divine Finger.

On the 18th of the Second Month, John Yeardley attended Pontefract Monthly Meeting, held at
Wakefield.

It was, he says, a precious season; I felt my friends very near to me in spirit, and expressed
to them in tenderness and love what lay on my mind; and in the conclusion the power and goodness
of the Most High were so awfully felt that I could not forbear kneeling down to offer him thanks,
and to supplicate that he would he pleased once more to bind up the breaches in the walls of
our Zion, and grant that when we were separated one from another we might never he separated
from his presence.

I now begin, he continues, to feel very anxious to set forward for my destination on the other
side of the water. What an awful situation mine appears to be! O that faith and patience may
be granted equal to the occasion!

1822. 2 mo. 26.--I never read in my dear lamb's diary but it feels to season my heart with
good. It is as though her writings were impregnated with a degree of sincerity and resignation
which, were so eminently the characteristics of her innocent spirit. O, I repeat it, that my
precious Saviour may be pleased to appoint her angel spirit to be my guardian through life,
until I shall be joined with her in heaven and we both unite in singing his praise.

About this time his brother, Thomas Yeardley, began to exercise the ministerial office.

3 mo. 3.--Attended Woodhouse Meeting, which was to me a very trying one.

3 mo. 18.--This day was held the Monthly Meeting at Barnsley. The Testimony concerning our
much-esteemed friend Joseph Wood was read and signed by the meetings at large. When I consider
the legacy, so to speak, which this dear friend used to say he should bequeath to me, this
language seems to prevail in my heart:--"Moses my servant is dead; now therefore arise. As
I was with Moses, so I will he with thee; I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee."--Joshua
i. 2, 5. This is an awful consideration; but why should any despair? May not the faithful mind
say, "This God is our God; he will be our guide, even unto death." He can't do very much harm,
for he is badly injured.

"" How? "I asked."

Railroad accident. Four days ago, locomotive and two passenger-cars off the track, down forty
feet upon the rocks and stones, and all there was of a river, "my
father replied, with evident regret that the company had been so unfortunate,
as well as his individual self."

Who is it? "was my next question."

Don't know, darling; haven't the least idea. He has the softest brown, curling hair of his
own, with a wig over it. Can't find out his name, or anything about
him.

I like him, though, Anna. He's like somebody! used to know. I brought him here from the hospital,
several days ago, but he hasn't given me much peace since, and the
people down below think I'm as crazy as he; but I cannot help it;
I will not turn him out now.

"" Of course you wouldn't, father.

We'll manage him superbly. I'll chain him for you.

"My father rose up, comforted by my words, and said" it was time for tea. "We went down. I was the
Sophie of Aaron's home, at my father's table."

Papa, "I said, as if introducing the most ordinary topic of conversation," what was the occasion
of sister Mary's death? She was only seventeen. How young to die!

       "My father sighed, and said,--"

Yes, it was young. She had fever, Anna. One of those long, low fevers that mislead one. I did
not think she would die.

"" Was Mary engaged to be married, father?

"Dr. Percival looked up at his daughter Anna with the look that says," You're growing old, "although
she was twenty-three, and never had gone so far in life as his eldest
daughter at seventeen."

She
was, Anna.

"" To whom, father?

"" Perhaps you've seen him, Anna. I hear that he is come home. His
name is Axtell,-- Abraham Axtell.

"I
told my father of the first words,-- where we had found him, tolling the bell,-- and of his
mother's death, and his sister's illness."

Incomprehensible people! "was my father's sole ejaculation, as he went to look after the deranged
patient.

I occupied myself for an hour in picking up the reins of government that I had thrown down when
I went to Redleaf. Looking into" our room, "and not finding father there, I went on, up to
my own room. A warm, welcoming fire burned within the grate. I thought," How good father is to think
for me! "and with the thought there entered in another. It came in the sudden consciousness that
the room was prepared for some one else than me. I glanced about it, and saw the strange, wild
man, with eyes all aglow, looking at me from out the depths of my wonted place of rest. No one
else was in the room. I turned around to leave, but, dropping my precious box of margarite, I
stooped to pick it up."

It is a good harbor to sail into.

       I'm content, "said the voice from the corner, before I could escape.

I met father coming in."

Why, how is this? "he said to me."

You didn't tell me you had given up my room, "I said."

Didn't I? Well, I forgot. We couldn't take him higher.

"" Is he so much hurt? "I asked."

Three broken bones, "my father replied." It will be weeks, it may be months, before he will be well; "and
he sighed hopelessly at the good deed, which, being done, pressed so heavily." Don't look so
sadly about it, Myrtle-Vine, "he added;" take my room, if you like.
""

That was not my thought, "I said." I do not mind the change of room.

"The visit to Redleaf, which I had made to dawn in my horizon, was eclipsed by three broken bones,
that suddenly undermined the arch of consistency.

Soothingly came the words that were spoken unto me. My father was all-willing to relinquish
his cherished room,-- his for sixteen years, and opening into that mysterious other room,--
to give it up to me, his Myrtle-Vine; and a momentary pang that any interest in existence should
be, except as circling around him, flew across the future," the science whereof is to man but
what the shadow of the wind might be, "-- and I looked up into his eyes, and, twining his long white
hair around my fingers, for a moment felt that forever and forever he should be the supreme object
of earthly devotion. In my wish to evince the sentiment in action, I requested permission to assist
in the care of the hospital patient."

Oh, no, Anna! he is too wild now. When the excitement of the fever is gone, then will be your
time.

"Another of those many-toned, circling peals of laughter came from my room. My father went in.
I went past the place that mortal eyes were not permitted to fathom,
and, for the first time in my life, was curious to know its contents,
and why I had never seen the interior thereof, I had grown up with
the mystery, until I had accepted it, unquestioning, as a thing not
for my view, and therefore out of recognition.

It was as far away from me as the open sea of the North, and might contain the mortal remains
of all the navigators of Hope that ever had wandered into the sea of Time for him who so holily
guarded it."

One far-away Indian-summery day, four years agone, "" while yet the day was young, "Dr. Percival,
my father, had led an azure-eyed maiden in through the mysterious entrance, and shown unto
her the veiled temple, its altar and its shrine, and she had come thence with the dew of feeling
in her eyes and a purple haze around her brow, which she has worn there until it has tangled
its pansy-web into an abiding-place, unto such time as the light is shut out forever, or the
waves from the silver sea curl their mist up thither. I had much marvel then concerning the
hidden mysteries; but Sophie so soon thereafter spake the naughty" I will, "that the silent room
forgot to speak to me. I have never heard sound thence since that
morning-time."

Why does not my father take me in? Am I not his child, even as Sophie?

"I asked these questions of Anna Percival, the while she stood at an upper window, and looked
out over New York's surging lines of life.

The roar of rolling wheels came muffled by distance and the shore
of dwelling-places over which I looked.

I counted the church-spires that threaded the vault of night a little
of the upward way.

How angels, that have lived forever in heaven, and souls just free
from material things, must reach down to touch these towering masts,
that tell which way the sails of spirit bend!

These city churches, dedicated with solemn service unto the worship of the great I AM, the Lord
God of Adam, the Jehovah Jireh of Israelites, the Holy Redeemer of Christians,-- may the Lord
of heaven and earth bless them every one! I looked forth upon them with tears. There never
comes a time, in the busiest hurry of human ways, that I do not sprinkle
a drop of love upon the steps as I pass,-- that I do not wind a tendril
of holy feeling up to height of tower or summit of spire for the great
winds to waft onward and upward.

God pity the heart that does not involuntary reverence to God's templed places, made sacred a thousand
fold by every penitential tear, by every throb of devotion, by every aspiration after the divine
existence, from which let down a little while, we wander, for what we know not! God doth not
tell, save that it is to" love first Him, Sole and Individual, "and then the fragments, the crumbs
of Divinity that dwell in Man.

I had not lighted the gas.

The street-lamps sent up their rays, making the room semi-lucent. I took out my tower-key. What
matter, if I held the cold iron thereof to my lips awhile? there was no frost in the March
air then. I sent my restless fingers in and out of the wards, prisoning them often therein.
As thus I stood, with cheek pressed against the windowpane, looking
out upon the city, set into a rim of darkness, from out of which it
flashed its million rays, papa came up."

I didn't say good-night, "he said, coming in, and to the window where I was." But how is this,
Anna? what has happened to my child? "-- and he pointed to shining drops that glistened on the
window-glass.

They must have come from my eyes; I could not deny their authorship, and so I confessed to tears
of gladness at seeing him once more.

He looked fondly down at me through the dim light. I asked him after the tenant of my premises.
He shook his head as one does in great doubt, said" life was uncertain, "and repeated several
other axioms, that were quite apart from his original style, and
excessively annoying to me."

Papa, "I said," why not tell me truly? will this man recover?

""'Man proposes, God disposes,'my child, "he said."

I don't dispute the general truth, "I replied,--" but, particularly,
is this man's life in danger?

"He
began to quote somebody's psalm or hymn about" fitful fevers and
fleeting shadows.

"My father has a fine, rich, variant power of sound with which to charm such as have ears to
hear, and Anna Percival has been so endowed. Therefore she listened and waited to the end. When
it came, she looked up into her father's face and said,--"

Papa, I am not a child, to be coaxed into forgetfulness; why will
you not trust me?

I am older than Sophie was when you took her in where I have not been; why will you not make
me your friend? "-- and some sudden collision of watery powers among the window-drops, whether
from accretion or otherwise, sent a glistening rivulet down to the
barrier of the sash.

Papa folded his arms, and looked at me. I could not bear to be thus
shut out. I said so."

Could you bear to be shut in? "he thought, and asked it."

I think I could. I could bear anything that you gave me; I could keep anything that you intrusted
to my keeping.

"Papa looked at me as one does at a cherished vine the outermost edges of which are just frost-touched;
then he folded me to his heart. I felt the throbbings thereof, and mine began to regret that
I had intruded into the vestibule of his sacred temple; but a certain something went whispering
within me," You can feed the sacred fire, "and I whispered to the whispering voice, and to
my father's ear,--"

You'll take me in, won't you?

"" Come, "was the only spoken word.

The room was not cheery; he felt it, and said,--"

You see what the effect is when my Myrtle-Vine is off my walls; "and he tossed aside books and papers
that had evidently been astray for days, and lay now in his way.

Papa took a key (he wears it too, it seems: that is even more than I do with my tower's) from a tiny
chain of gold about his neck, and unlocked the door connecting this silent room with his own. He
went in, leaving me outside. He lighted a candle and left it burning there. He came, took
my hand, and, with the leading whereby we guide a child, conducted me in thither. Then he went
out and left me standing, bewildered, there.

I had anticipated something wonderful.

What was here? It was a silent room. The carpet had a river-pattern meandering over its dark-blue
ground: it must have been years since a broom went over it. Strange medley of furniture was
here. I looked upon the walls. Pictures that must have come from another race and generation
hung there. There were many of them. One side of the room held one only. It was a portrait.
I remembered the original in life." My mother, "I exclaimed. In the room's centre, surrounded
by various articles, was the very boat that I knew Mary Percival had guided out to sea to
save Abraham Axtell. Two tiny oars lay across it. The paint was faded; the seams were open;
it would hold water no longer. A sense of worship filled me. I looked up at the portrait. My
mother smiled: or was it my fancy? Fancy undoubtedly; but fancies give comfort sometimes. I looked
again at the boat.

On its stern, in small, golden letters, was the name," Blessing of the Bay, "the very name
given to the first boat built after the Mayflower's keel touched America's shore." The name
was a good omen, "I thought. An armchair stood before the portrait. A shawl was spread over
it. I lifted up the fringe to see what the shawl covered.

Papa had come in."

Don't do that, Anna, "he said."

Is it any harm, papa?

"" Your mother died sitting in that chair; her hands spread the shawl over it; it was the last
work they did, Anna; it has never since been taken off.

"I dropped the fringe; my touch seemed sacrilegious.

Near the chair was a small cabinet; it looked like an altar, or would
have done so, had my father been a devotee to any religion requiring
visible sacrifice.

He opened it."

Come hither, Anna, "-- and I went.

Long, luxuriant
bands of softly purplish hair lay within, upon the place of sacrifice."

Sophie's is
like this, "I said."

And Sophie wears one like unto this, "said
my father; and he took up a circlet of shining gold that lay among
the tresses." Sophie's marriage-ring was hallowed unto her. I gave
it the morning she went out from me. "He uttered these words with
slow reverence of voice.

Why did self come up?"

You gave Sophie
our mother's marriage-ring, "I said," and I "--"

Shall wear this, "said
my father." I laid it here, with hers; "and he gently lifted the
sacred hair, and, freeing the ring, put it upon my finger."

This
is not my marriage-day, "I said." Papa, I don't want it. Besides,
gentlemen don't wear marriage-rings: how came you to?

"" Perhaps
I have not worn this one; but will you wear it to please me?

"" Why
will it please you? It is not symbolical, is it?

"" It makes you doubly
mine, "he said; and he led me back to outside life, with this strange
sort of marriage-ring circling with its planet weight around my finger.

Did
my father mean to keep me forever? And with the question came an answer
that left sweet contentment in its pathway; it accorded with the intent
of my heart."

Father, have you made me your friend? "I asked, in
the room that was terribly tossed, as I restored to place chairs that
seemed to have been in a deplorably long dance, and to have forgotten
their home at its close."

You wear my ring, you have come into my
orbit, "he answered."

That being true, I am as much interested in
the flying comet in there as you are,-- for if it strikes you, it hurts
me; "and I waited his answer.

After a moment of pause, it came."

My
poor patient is very ill; his life will burn out, if the fever is
not stayed; "and as the frenzied laugh reached us, Dr. Percival forgot
my presence; he passed his hand slowly across his brow, as if to retouch
memory, and then taking down a volume, he began to read. I waited
long. At last he closed the book suddenly, said to himself," I'll
try it, "and in half a moment my father's white hairs were separated
from me by the impassable barrier of the sick-room.

I waited; he
did not come. The chairs were not the only articles that had lost
the commodity of order in my absence. I went to the table upon which
were kept the papers, etc., that lingered there a little while, and
then were thought no longer of. Idly I turned them over. What a chaos
on a small scale! all the elements of literature were represented.
I listened for coming footsteps; none came." I may as well arrange
this table, "I thought," as wait for the morrow; "and I made a beginning
by sweeping the chaos at once upon the carpet. Then slowly I began
picking them up, one by one, and appointing them stations. My task
was nearly done, when, in turning over some magazines, I came upon
a pile of papers that had been laid between the leaves of one, and
ere I was aware of their presence, they slid down and scattered. I
remember having felt a little surprise that my father should have
left them there, but I hastened to gather them together. The last
one of the number, I noticed, was torn; it had a foreign look." Father
has some new correspondent, "I thought, as I looked at the number
of mail-marks upon it." He doesn't think much of it, though, or it
would have received better treatment; "and I took a second look at
it. A something in the feel of the paper seemed familiar." It is good
for nothing, "I said aloud, and I tossed it toward the grate, put
the pile of papers where I had found them, surveyed my work with satisfaction,
and stood thinking whether or not I should wait to see my father again-- it
was more than an hour since he went up-- to say good-night to me."
I will wait a half-hour; if he doesn't come then, I'll go, "I said
to the housekeeper, who came to see that all was right for the night,
and to remind me that Redleaf had not proved very advantageous to
my complexion, and to recommend early hours as a restorative.

In
accordance with my promise, I drew a chair forward, placed my feet
upon the fender, and began to study the dying embers that were slowly
falling through the grate-bars. One, larger than usual, burned its
way down. It lighted up, for an instant, the bit of paper, that had
not fallen into the coals. Strange fancy it was that led me to imagine
that I saw a capital A, followed immediately by that unknown quantity
represented by x. I made an effort to gain it, scorched my face, and
burned my fingers; for I touched the grate, in rescuing that which
I had cast into the place of burning."

This bit of paper, found in
New York, had once been integral with that I had found within the
church-yard tower in Redleaf, "some inner voice assured me." Yes,
it is a part of it, "I said, for I distinctly remembered the fragment
whose possession I had so rejoiced over. Some one had written a letter
to Miss Axtell; the envelope was torn,-- one part there, another here.
The letter itself I had found in the gloom of the passage-way; for
it Miss Axtell had gone out to search, ill, and in the night; what
must its contents have been, to have been worthy of such effort?-- and
for the time I quite forgot to connect this man, ill in my father's
house, with the Herbert whose far-out-at-sea voice I had heard winding
up at me through the very death-darkness of the tower. Suddenly the
consciousness scintillated in my soul, and wonderful it was; but the
picture of my dream came in with it, and I said again," I am ready
for the work which is given me to do, "and I waited for its coming
till I grew very weary, holding this fragment of envelope fast, as
a ship clings to its anchor in mild seas. I ventured to knock at the
entrance of my own room. All was silent within. I tried the second
time. There came no answer. I dared not venture on the conquering
third.***** AT SYRACUSE. I am entering on a visit to the
families here with my dear friend T.S., whose company I have had since the 23rd ult. This service
is to me a very important one. It is an easy matter to say to a brother or a sister, Be comforted,
be strengthened; but it is no light matter to dip so feelingly into the state of our fellow-mortals,
as to feel as though we could place our soul in their soul's stead, in order that they might
be strengthened and comforted.

8 mo. 20.--The visit has been got over to our great satisfaction. In some sittings, deep exercise
and mourning; in others, cause of rejoicing over the precious seed of the kingdom, which is
alive in the hearts of some. There seems to be a remarkable visitation once more extended,
especially to the youth.

In conjunction with Thomas Shillitoe he proposed to the Friends, as only one meeting was held
on First-days, to have one in the evening for religious reading, holding it at Friedensthal
in the summer, and at Pyrmont in the winter. The proposal was immediately complied with, and
the institution proved a valuable auxiliary to the edification of the members.

8 mo. 25.--The reading meeting this evening has been a precious season; O, how all spirits
were melted together! May the blessing of the Lord rest upon this humble endeavor as a means
of bringing us nearer to himself.

28th,--Our English Friends [Benjamin Seebohm and John Snowdon] have taken their departure.
I feel a little solitary, but I think it a great favor to be preserved from a wish to go with
them; nothing will do for me but entire resignation to the Lord's will and work. Little did
I think when I left my home in England, that a work of this sort awaited me in Germany; indeed,
I came blind in the gospel; I knew nothing; but now I see such a field of labor if I am faithful:
how shall it ever be accomplished? O, prepare me, dearest Lord, for without thy heavenly hand
to assist me I must faint. O, may I ever seek thy counsel; and be thou pleased to lead me step
by step, and give strength according to the day.

29th.--To-day I have for the first time expressed a few sentences in broken German in our little
meeting. I do not know whether they might be very clearly understood, but I hope the attempt
to do what I conceived to be the Lord's will, will be accepted by him. O, that he may he pleased
to give me the power of speech!

In the Ninth Month he went to Hanover with Thomas Shillitoe, who had a concern to see the authorities
regarding the observance of the First-day. They did not meet with much success in their object;
but they made the acquaintance of Pastors Gundel and Hagemann, the latter "nearly blind and
very grey, but truly green in the feeling sense of religion," and who rejoiced in his heart
to find a brother concerned to reform those things which had long laid heavy on his mind.

The two friends travelled together to Minden, where they parted, and John Yeardley returned
to Pyrmont by Bielefeld.

The neighborhood of this town, he says, is remarkably fine. There is a very high hill, partly
formed by nature, and partly by art, from which we can see quite round, without any interruption,
even into Holland. Here, from the appearance of the bleach-grounds, I could fancy myself in
Barnsley. But, as Sarah Grubb says, I can have no pleasure in fine prospects; my mind in these
journeys is always too much exercised with matters of a more serious nature.

In the latter part of the month John Yeardley went again to Minden, to unite with Thomas Shillitoe
in a visit to the families of Friends. They commenced their visit at Bückeburg, where they
had a remarkable interview with the family of the Kammer-rath Wind, which is related at length
in T. S.'s journal (vol. i., p. 388).

The place which seems in these visits to have engaged J.Y.'s sympathies the most strongly was
the village of Eidinghausen.

We had, he says, a very favored meeting in the room where their meeting is usually held. In
the sitting in the evening, with the family where we lodged, many of the neighbors came in,
who seemed to have no wish to leave us. I thought of the words of the dear Saviour, when seeing
the multitudes he had compassion on them, because they were as sheep having no shepherd. Truly
these have no outward shepherd who cares much for their spiritual interests. I felt my heart
much warmed in gospel love towards them, and we invited them to give us their company again
next day, which most of them did. In this meeting there was something expressed so remarkably
suited to the states of some present, that after it was over a woman confessed it had been
as was declared, that she herself was one to whom it belonged; and she gave us a short relation
how it had been with her in former days.

The love which these simple, honest-hearted creatures manifest towards us does away with all
distinctions and the difference of language. O, that He who teaches as never man taught may
be pleased to guide them and bring them to himself that there may be one shepherd and one sheep-fold.
All our toils in this weary land will not be too much if we can he made the instruments of
helping only one poor soul on its way Zionwards.

10 mo. 8.--I returned yesterday evening from Minden, with a thankful heart, to come again to
my quiet and romantic habitation in Peacedale. The strong fortifications which are made, and
now making, around Minden, give it an appearance of gloom and oppression which is scarcely
to be borne. O, how uncomfortable do I feel when within its walls; but in its neighborhood
there are a few friends to whom I am tenderly united in spirit.

He concludes this entry with an allusion to the homely and even hard manner of life to which
many of these were accustomed.

To some of our Friends in England who are dissatisfied with their outward situation, I would
say, Come and see how these live on the Continent.

The 29th of the Tenth Month was the anniversary of his wife's death. His diary for this day
is an affecting transcript of his feelings on the occasion.

The shock which my earthly happiness received this day twelvemonths has been, this evening,
piercingly renewed in the recollection of almost every minute transaction which accompanied
the awful event of the closing moments of my precious lamb. For truly like a lamb she lived,
and was well prepared to become an angel-spirit. O, happy spirit, thou art at rest; then why
should I mourn thy loss? Surely He who knows the weakness of our frame will forgive, for he
himself gave us the example in weeping over those he loved. The Almighty has been very good
to me; he has put it in the hearts of those with whom I reside to care for me with an affectionate
interest. O, for greater diligence, that the day's work may keep pace with the day. What shall
I do, but pray for more strength to be made able to do all that may be required of me. I never
saw the advice of our dear Saviour more necessary for myself than at the present time, "Be
ye wise as serpents and harmless as doves."

Soon after this he had a return, of his complaint in the stomach, which caused him to exclaim--

We are indeed but dust and ashes; how quickly the slender thread may be cut, and reduce this
frail tabernacle to that state of earthly composition from which it was formed. But the spiritual
part in us must have an abiding somewhere for ever; this is the awful consideration which ought
continually to affect our hearts. Is it not a strange infatuation to rank the moments of affliction
among the evil events of our lives, when these may prove the very means of bringing back our
wandering feet to the path which leads to everlasting life?

He then reviews his own situation, his calling and his work.

It is often the consideration of my heart, What has brought me into this country? what have
I done? what am I doing? and what have I to do? The enemy is not wanting to distress my poor
mind on the point of these four important queries. But to the first I can answer, An humble
submission to what I believe to be the leadings of Divine Wisdom. He had been her instructor in
books, he had conducted her education, he had directed her amusements, he had been her associate-- in
short, father and daughter were companions, and from that sweet companionship both derived a solace
and wisdom precious above all things else. Mary Lackington was, perhaps, in some particulars
mature beyond her years; the sweetness, the simplicity, and the guilelessness of her character
was the sweetness, the simplicity, and the guilelessness of childhood. Fair and innocent, this
womanly maiden came into the comedy of that mountain wooing.

Three-fingered Hoover had never been regarded an artful man, but now, all at once, for the first
time in his life, he practised a subtlety. He became acquainted with Mary Lackington; I am not
sure that he did not meet Sir Charles at the firemen's muster in
Pueblo some years before.

Getting acquainted with Miss Mary was no hard thing; the girl flitted whithersoever she pleased,
and she enjoyed chatting with the miners, whom she found charmingly fresh, original, and manly,
and as for the miners, they simply adored Miss Mary. Sir Charles owed his popularity largely
to his winsome daughter.

Mary was not long in discovering that Three-fingered Hoover had a little romance all of his own. Maybe
some of the other boys told her about it. At any rate, Mary was charmed, and without hesitation
she commanded Hoover to confess all. How the big, awkward fellow ever got through with it I
for my part can't imagine, but tell her he did-- yes, he fairly unbosomed his secret, and Mary
was still more delighted and laughed and declared that it was the
loveliest love story she had ever heard.

Right here was where Hoover's first and only subtlety came in.

"And now, Miss Mary," says he, "you can do me a good turn, and I hope you will do it. Get acquainted
with the lady and work it up with her for me. Tell her that you know-- not that I told you,
but that you happen to have found it out, that I like her-- like her better'n anybody else; that
I'm the pure stuff; that if anybody ties to me they can find me thar every time and can bet their
last case on me! Don't lay it on too thick, but sort of let on I'm O. K. You women understand
such things-- if you'll help me locate this claim I'm sure everything'll pan out all right; will
ye?"

The bare thought of promoting a love affair set Mary nearly wild with enthusiasm. She had read of
experiences of this kind, but of course she had never participated in any. She accepted the
commission gayly yet earnestly. She would seek Miss Woppit at once, and she would be so discreet
in her tactics-- yes, she would be as artful as the most skilled
diplomat at the court of love.

Had
she met Miss Woppit? Yes, and then again no. She had been rambling in the glen yesterday and,
coming down the road, had stopped near the pathway leading to The
Bower to pick a wild flower of exceeding brilliancy.

About to resume her course to camp she became aware that another
stood near her.

A woman, having passed noiselessly from the cabin, stood in the gravelly pathway looking upon
the girl with an expression wholly indefinable. The woman was young, perhaps twenty; she was tall
and of symmetrical form, though rather stout; her face was comely, perchance a bit masculine
in its strength of features, and the eyes were shy, but of swift and certain glance, as if
instantaneously they read through and through the object upon which
they rested.

"You frightened me," said Mary Lackington, and she had been startled, truly; "I did not hear you
coming, and so I was frightened when I saw you standing there."

To this explanation the apparition made no answer, but continued to regard Mary steadfastly
with the indefinable look-- an expression partly of admiration, partly of distrust, partly of appeal,
perhaps.

Mary Lackington grew nervous; she did therefore the most sensible thing she could have done
under the circumstances-- she proceeded on her way homeward.

This, then, was Mary's first meeting with Miss Woppit. Not particularly encouraging to a renewal
of the acquaintance; yet now that Mary had so delicate and so important a mission to execute
she burned to know more of the lonely creature on that hill side, and she accepted with enthusiasm,
as I have said, the charge committed to her by the enamored Hoover.

Sir Charles and his daughter remained at the camp about three weeks. In that time Mary became friendly
with Miss Woppit, as intimate, in fact, as it was possible for anybody to become with her. Mary
found herself drawn strangely and inexplicably toward the woman. The fascination which Miss
Woppit exercised over her was altogether new to Mary; here was a woman of lowly birth and in
lowly circumstances, illiterate, neglected, lonely, yet possessing a charm-- an indefinable charm
which was distinct and potent, yet not to be analyzed-- yes, hardly recognizable by any process
of cool mental dissection, but magically persuasive in the subtlety of its presence and influence.
Mary had sought to locate, to diagnose that charm; did it lie in her sympathy with the woman's
lonely lot, or was it the romance of the wooing, or was it the fascination of those restless,
searching eyes that Mary so often looked up to find fixed upon her with an expression she could
not forget and could not define?

I incline to the belief that all these things combined to constitute the charm whereof I speak.
Miss Woppit had not the beauty that would be likely to attract one
other own sex; she had none of the sprightliness and wit of womankind,
and she seemed to be wholly unacquainted with the little arts, accomplishments
and vanities in which women invariably find amusement.

She was simply a strange, lonely creature who had accepted valorously her duty to minister to the
comfort of her brother; the circumstances of her wooing invested her name and her lot with a certain
pleasing romance; she was a woman, she was loyal to her sense of duty, and she was, to a greater
degree than most women, a martyr-- herein, perhaps, lay the secret to the fascination Miss
Woppit had for Mary Lackington.

At any rate, Mary and Miss Woppit became, to all appearances, fast
friends; the wooing of Miss Woppit progressed apace, and the mystery
of those Red Hoss Mountain crimes became more and-- but I have already
declared myself upon that point and I shall say no more thereof except
so far as bears directly upon my story, which is, I repeat, of a wooing,
and not of crime.

Three-fingered Hoover had every confidence in the ultimate success of the scheme to which Miss
Mary had become an enthusiastic party. In occasional pessimistic moods he found himself compelled
to confess to himself that the reports made by Miss Mary were not altogether such as would inspire
enthusiasm in the bosom of a man less optimistic than he-- Hoover--
was.

To tell the truth, Mary found the task of doing Hoover's courting
for him much more difficult than she had ever fancied a task of that
kind could be.

In spite of her unacquaintance with the artifices of the world Miss Woppit exhibited the daintiest
skill at turning the drift of the conversation whenever, by the most studied tact, Mary Lackington
succeeded in bringing the conversation around to a point where the virtues of Three-fingered
Hoover, as a candidate for Miss Woppit's esteem, could be expatiated upon. From what Miss Woppit
implied rather than said, Mary took it that Miss Woppit esteemed Mr. Hoover highly as a gentleman
and as a friend-- that she perhaps valued his friendship more than she did that of any other man
in the world, always excepting her brother Jim, of course.

Miss Mary reported all this to Hoover much more gracefully than I have put it, for, being a woman,
her sympathies would naturally exhibit themselves with peculiar tenderness when conveying to a lover
certain information touching his inamorata.

There were two subjects upon which Miss Woppit seemed to love to hear Mary talk. One was Mary herself
and the other was Jim Woppit. Mary regarded this as being very natural. Why should n't this women
in exile pine to hear of the gay, beautiful world outside her pent horizon? So Mary told her
all about the sights she had seen, the places she had been to, the
people she had met, the books she had read, the dresses she-- but,
no, Miss Woppit cared nothing for that kind of gossip-- now you'll
agree that she was a remarkable woman, not to want to hear all about
the lovely dresses Mary had seen and could describe so eloquently.

Then again, as to Jim, was n't it natural that Miss Woppit, fairly wrapped up in that brother,
should be anxious to hear the good opinion that other folk had of him? Did the miners like
Jim, she asked-- what did they say, and what did Sir Charles say?

Miss Woppit was fertile in questionings of this kind, and Mary made satisfactory answers, for
she was sure that everybody liked Jim, and as for her father, why, he had taken Jim right into
his confidence the day he came to the camp.

Sir Charles had indeed made a confidant of Jim. One day he called him into his room at the Mears
House. "Mr. City Marshal," said Sir Charles, in atone that implied secrecy, "I have given
it out that I shall leave the camp for home day after to-morrow."

"Yes, I had heerd talk," answered Jim Woppit. "You are going by the
stage."

"Certainly, by the stage," said Sir Charles, "but not day after to-morrow;
I go to-morrow."

"To-morrow,
sir?"

"To-morrow," repeated Sir Charles. "The coach leaves here, as I am told, at eleven o'clock.
At four we shall arrive at Wolcott Siding, there to catch the down express, barring delay. I say'barring
delay,'and it is with a view to evading the probability of delay that I have given out that
I am to leave on a certain day, whereas, in fact, I shall leave a day earlier. You understand?"
"You bet I do," said Jim.

"You are afraid of-- of the robbers?"

"I shall have some money with me," answered Sir Charles, "but that
alone does not make me desirous of eluding the highwaymen.

My daughter-- a fright of that kind might lead to the most disastrous
results."

"Correct," said Jim.

"So I have planned this secret departure," continued Sir Charles. "No one in the camp now knows of
it but you and me, and I have a favor-- a distinct favor-- to ask of you in pursuance of this
plan. It is that you and a posse of the bravest men you can pick shall accompany the coach,
or, what is perhaps better, precede the coach by a few minutes, so as to frighten away the outlaws
in case they may happen to be lurking in ambush."

Jim signified his hearty approval of the proposition. He even expressed a fervent hope that a rencontre
with the outlaws might transpire, and then he muttered a cordial
"d----'em!"

"In order, however," suggested Sir Charles, "to avert suspicion here
in camp it would be wise for your men to meet quietly at some obscure
point and ride together, not along the main road, but around the mountain
by the Tin Cup path, coming in on the main road this side of Lone
Pine ranch.

You should await our arrival, and then, everything being tranquil, your posse can precede us as an
advance guard in accordance with my previous suggestion."

"It might be a pious idea," said Jim, "for me to give the boys a pointer. They'll be on to it,
anyhow, and I know'em well enough to trust'em."

"You know your men; do as you please about apprising them of their errand," said Sir Charles.
"I have only to request that you assure each that he will be well
rewarded for his services."

This
makes a rude break in our wooing; but I am narrating actual happenings. Poor old Hoover's subtlety
all for naught, Mary's friendly offices incompleted, the pleasant visits to the cabin among the hollyhocks
suspended perhaps forever, Miss Woppit's lonely lot rendered still more lonely by the departure
of her sweet girl friend-- all this was threatened by the proposed flight-- for flight it was--
of Sir Charles and Mary Lackington.

That May morning was a glorious one. Summer seemed to have burst upon the camp and the noble mountain-sentinels
about it.

"We are going to-day," said Sir Charles to his daughter. "Hush! not a word about it to anybody.
I have reasons for wishing our departure to be secret."

"You have heard bad news?" asked Mary, quickly.

"Not at all," answered Sir Charles, smilingly. "There is absolutely no cause for alarm. We must
go quietly; when we reach home I will tell you my reasons and then we will have a hearty laugh
together."

Mary Lackington set about packing her effects, and all the time her thoughts were of her lonely
friend in the hill-side cabin. In this hour of her departure she felt herself drawn even more
strangely and tenderly toward that weird, incomprehensible creature; such a tugging at her
heart the girl had never experienced till now. What would Miss Woppit say-- what would she think? The
thought of going away with never so much as a good-by struck Mary Lackington as being a wanton
piece of heartlessness. But she would write to Miss Woppit as soon as ever she reached home-- she
would write a letter that would banish every suspicion of unfeelingness.

Then, too, Mary thought of Hoover; what would the big, honest fellow
think, to find himself deserted in this emergency without a word of
warning?

Altogether it was very dreadful. But Mary Lackington was a daughter who did her father's bidding
trustingly. Three-fingered Hoover went with Jim Woppit that day. There were thirteen in the posse--
fatal number-- mounted on sturdy bronchos and armed to the teeth.

They knew their business and they went gayly on their way. Around the mountain and over the Tin Cup path they
galloped, a good seven miles, I'll dare swear; and now at last they met up with the main road,
and at Jim Woppit's command they drew in under the trees to await the approach of the party
in the stage. Meanwhile in camp the comedy was drawing to a close. Bill Merridew drove stage
that day; he was Steve Barclay's pardner-- pretty near the only man
in camp that stood out for Steve when he was suspicioned of being
in some sort of cahoots with the robbers.

Steve Barclay's arm was still useless and Bill was reckoned the next best horseman in the world.
The stage drew up in front of the Mears House. Perhaps half a dozen passengers were in waiting
and the usual bevy of idlers was there to watch the departure. Great was the astonishment
when Sir Charles and Mary Lackington appeared and stepped into the
coach.

Everybody knew Sir Charles and his daughter, and, as I have told
you, it had been given out that they were not to leave the camp until
the morrow.

Forthwith there passed around mysterious whisperings as to the cause of Sir Charles'sudden departure.
It must have been a whim on Barber Sam's part. At any rate, he issued just then from Casey's restaurant
across the way, jaunty and chipper as ever. He saw Sir Charles in the stage and Bill Merridew
on the box. He gave a low, significant whistle. Then he crossed the road. "Bill," says he, quietly,
"It's a summerish day, and not feelin'just as pert as I oughter I
reckon I'll ride a right smart piece with you for my health!"

With these words Barber Sam climbed up and sat upon the box with Bill Merridew. A moment later
the stage was on its course along the main road. "Look a'here, Bill Merridew," says Barber Sam,
fiercely, "there's a lord inside and you outside, to-day-- a mighty
suspicious coincidence!

No, you need n't let on you don't tumble to my meenin'! I've had
my eye on Steve Barclay an'you, and I'm ready for a showdown. I'm
travelin'for my health to-day, and so are you, Bill Merridew!

I'm fixed from the ground up an'you know there ain't a man in the Red Hoss Mountain country that
is handier with a gun than me.

Now I mean bizness; if there is any onpleasantness to-day and if you try to come any funny bizness,
why, d---- me, Bill Merridew, if I don't blow your head off!" Pleasant words these for Bill to listen
to. But Bill knew Barber Sam and he had presence of mind enough to couch his expostulatory reply
in the most obsequious terms. He protested against Barber Sam's harsh imputations. "I've had my say,"
was Barber Sam's answer. "I ain't goin'to rub it in. You understand that I mean bizness this
trip; so don't forget it. Now let's talk about the weather." Mary Lackington
had hoped that, as they passed The Bower, she would catch a glimpse
of Miss Woppit-- perhaps have sufficient opportunity to call out a
hasty farewell to her.

But Miss Woppit was nowhere to be seen. The little door of the cabin was open, so presumably the mistress
was not far away. Mary was disappointed, vexed; she threw herself back and resigned herself to indignant
reflections.

The stage had proceeded perhaps four miles on its way when its progress was arrested by the sudden
appearance of a man, whose habit and gestures threatened evil.

This stranger was of short and chunky build and he was clad in stout, dark garments that fitted him snugly.
A slouch hat was pulled down over his head and a half-mask of brown muslin concealed the features
of his face. He held out two murderous pistols and in a sharp voice cried "Halt!" Instantaneously
Barber Sam recognized in this bold figure the mysterious outlaw who
for so many months had been the terror of the district, and instinctively
he reached for his pistol-pocket.

"Throw
up your hands!" commanded the outlaw. He had the drop on them. Recalling poor Jake Dodsley's fate
Barber Sam discreetly did as he was bidden.

As for Bill Merridew, he was shaking like a wine-jelly. The horses had come to a stand, and the
passengers in the coach were wondering why a stop had been made so soon. Wholly unaware of what
had happened, Mary Lackington thrust her head from the door window of the coach and looked forward
up the road, in the direction of the threatening outlaw. She comprehended the situation at
once and with a scream fell back into her father's arms. Presumably,
the unexpected discovery of a woman among the number of his intended
victims disconcerted the ruffian.

At any rate, he stepped back a pace or two and for a moment lowered his weapons. That moment was fatal
to him. Quick as lightning Barber Sam whipped out his unerring revolver
and fired. The outlaw fell like a lump of dough in the road. At that
instant Bill Merridew recovered his wits; gathering up the lines and
laying on the whip mercilessly he urged his horses into a gallop.
Over the body of the outlaw crunched the hoofs of the frightened brutes
and rumbled the wheels of the heavy stage. "We've got him this time!" yelled
Barber Sam, wildly. "Stop your horses, Bill-- you're all right, Bill,
and I'm sorry I ever did you dirt-- stop your horses, and let's finish
the sneakin'critter!"

There was the greatest excitement. The passengers fairly fell out
of the coach, and it seemed as if they had an arsenal with them.
Mary Lackington was as self-possessed as any of the rest. "Are you sure
he is dead?" she asked. "Don't let us go nearer till we know that
he is dead; he will surely kill us!" The gamest man in the world would
n't have stood the ghost of a show in the face of those murderous weapons
now brought to bear on the fallen and crushed wretch. "If he ain't
dead already he's so near it that there ain't no fun in it," said Bill
Merridew. In spite of this assurance, however, the party advanced
cautiously toward the man.

Convinced
finally that there was no longer cause for alarm, Barber Sam strode boldly
up to the body, bent over it, tore off the hat and pulled aside the muslin
half-mask. One swift glance at the outlaw's face, and Barber Sam
recoiled.

"Great God!"
he cried, "Miss Woppit!" It was, indeed, Miss Woppit-- the fair-haired,
shy-eyed boy who for months had masqueraded in the camp as a woman.
Now, that masquerade disclosed and the dreadful mystery of the past
revealed, the nameless boy, fair in spite of his crimes and his hideous
wounds, lay dying in the dust and gravel of the road.

Jim Woppit and his posse,
a mile away, had heard the pistol-shot. It seemed but a moment ere
they swept down the road to the scene of the tragedy; they came with
the swiftness of the wind.

Jim Woppit galloped ahead, his swarthy face
the picture of terror. "Who is it-- who's killed-- who's hurt?" he asked.
Nobody made answer, and that meant everything to Jim.

He leapt from his
horse, crept to the dying boy's side and took the bruised head into
his lap.

The yellowish hair had fallen down about the shoulders;
Jim stroked it and spoke to the white face, repeating "Willie, Willie,
Willie," over and over again. The presence and the voice of that evil
brother, whom he had so bravely served, seemed to arrest the offices
of Death. The boy came slowly to, opened his eyes and saw Jim Woppit
there.

There was pathos,
not reproach, in the dying eyes.

"It's all up, Jim," said the boy, faintly, "I
did the best I could." All that Jim Woppit could answer was "Willie,
Willie, Willie," over and over again. "This was to have been the last
and we were going away to be decent folks," this was what the boy went
on to say; "I wish it could have been so, for I have wanted to live
ever since-- ever since I knew her."

Mary Lackington
gave a great moan. She stood a way off, but she heard these words and
they revealed much-- so very much to her-- more, perhaps, than you
and I can guess. He did not speak her name. The boy seemed not to know
that she was there.

He said no other word, but with
Jim Woppit bending over him and wailing that piteous "Willie, Willie,
Willie," over and over again, the boy closed his eyes and was dead. They are a rustic set of folks, but have each a soul to save or
to lose, and all souls are of equal value in the sight of the Judge of the whole earth. Lewis
Seebohm kindly gave up his time to attend me as interpreter, for I still prefer help of this
sort when it can be done through one who is so feelingly capable. I often feel as a poor wandering
stranger in a strange land, and yet I dare not complain. The goodness of the Lord is great
towards me; he opens the hearts of those whom I am concerned to visit, to receive me into their
hearts and houses, so that it affords me great freedom in speaking to them on serious subjects
relating to their best interests, both spiritual and temporal. I am convinced if we mean to
be useful to a people of a strange land, all must be done in a spirit of love and humility;
with the weak we must be willing to become weak; only we must be on our guard and not flinch
from our well-known testimonies.

The reflection contained in the passage which follows is of deep significance, and the lesson
it conveys is one which the Church has as much need to learn now as at any former period.

15th.--We find recorded in the writings of our ancient Friends that occasionally a few words
spoken in the course of common conversation made a deep impression on the minds of those to
whom they were addressed. The cause must have been that they lived in a more retired state
of mind, and were consequently better prepared to feel the smallest of good impressions in
themselves, and were also more attentive to embrace every opportunity of improving the minds
of others. I fail in this respect; I do not live enough in what may be truly called a spirit
of prayer. I must be more watchful over my thoughts, words and actions, and improve my seasons
of retirement; for there is no other way of preservation than by waiting and praying for a
renewal of spiritual strength.

John Yeardley then reverts, as he so often does, to the love of souls in Germany, which was
the means of causing him to leave his native land, and which he says had not diminished during
his eighteen months' residence among them. To these thoughts he adds some considerations regarding
the temporal condition of the Society of Friends there, on account of which he was often very
solicitous.

The situation and welfare of the Society here have long occupied the warmest feelings of my
heart. A something that took all the pain and pathos of the world into its
weak, pitiful cry.

Some beautiful caged spirit, one could not but know, struggled for breath under that brutal form
and idiotic brain. I wonder when it will be free. Not in this life:
the bars are too heavy.

You
cannot help Tom, either; all the war is between you. He was in Richmond in May. But (do you hate
the moral to a story?) in your own kitchen, in your own back-alley, there are spirits as beautiful,
caged in forms as bestial, that you could set free, if you pleased. Don't call it bad taste in
me to speak for them.

You know they are more to be pitied than Tom,-- for they are dumb.

KINDERGARTEN-- WHAT IS IT?

What is a Kindergarten? I will reply by negatives. It is not the old-fashioned infant-school. That
was a narrow institution, comparatively; the object being (I do not speak of Pestalozzi's own,
but that which we have had in this country and in England) to take the children of poor laborers,
and keep them out of the fire and the streets, while their mothers went to their necessary
labor. Very good things, indeed, in their way. Their principle of discipline was to circumvent
the wills of children, in every way that would enable their teachers to keep them within bounds,
and quiet. It was certainly better that they should learn to sing by rote the Creed and the
"definitions" of scientific terms, and such like, than to learn the profanity and obscenity of
the streets, which was the alternative. But no mother who wished for anything which might be
called the development of her child would think of putting it into an infant-school, especially if she
lived in the country, amid "the mighty sum Of things forever speaking,"
where any "old grey stone" would altogether surpass, as a stand-point,
the bench of the highest class of an infant-school.

In short, they did not state the problem of infant culture with any
breadth, and accomplished nothing of general interest on the subject.

Neither is the primary public school a Kindergarten, though it is but
justice to the capabilities of that praiseworthy institution, so
important in default of a better, to say that in one of them, at the
North End of Boston, an enterprising and genial teacher has introduced
one feature of Froebel's plan.

She has actually given to each of her little children a box of playthings, wherewith to amuse itself
according to its own sweet will, at all times when not under direct
instruction,-- necessarily, in her case, on condition of its being
perfectly quiet; and this one thing makes this primary school the
best one in Boston, both as respects the attainments of the scholars
and their good behavior.

Kindergarten means a garden of children, and Froebel, the inventor of it, or rather, as he would prefer
to express it, the discoverer of the method of Nature, meant to symbolize by the name the spirit
and plan of treatment. How does the gardener treat his plants? He
studies their individual natures, and puts them into such circumstances
of soil and atmosphere as enable them to grow, flower, and bring forth
fruit,-- also to renew their manifestation year after year.

He does not expect to succeed unless he learns all their wants, and the circumstances in which these
wants will be supplied, and all their possibilities of beauty and use, and the means of giving them
opportunity to be perfected. On the other hand, while he knows that they must not be forced against
their individual natures, he does not leave them to grow wild, but
prunes redundancies, removes destructive worms and bugs from their
leaves and stems, and weeds from their vicinity,-- carefully watching
to learn what peculiar insects affect what particular plants, and
how the former can be destroyed without injuring the vitality of the
latter.

After all the
most careful gardener can do, he knows that the form of the plant is predetermined
in the germ or seed, and that the inward tendency must concur with
a multitude of influences, the most powerful and subtile of which
is removed in place ninety-five millions of miles away.

In the Kindergarten children are treated on an analogous plan. It presupposes gardeners of the
mind, who are quite aware that they have as little power to override the characteristic individuality
of a child, or to predetermine this characteristic, as the gardener of plants to say that a lily
shall be a rose. But notwithstanding this limitation on one side, and the necessity for concurrence
of the Spirit on the other,-- which is more independent of our modification than the remote sun,--
yet they must feel responsible, after all, for the perfection of the development, in so far as removing
every impediment, preserving every condition, and pruning every redundance. This analogy of
education to the gardener's art is so striking, both as regards what we can and what we cannot
do, that Froebel has put every educator into a most suggestive Normal School, by the very word which
he has given to his seminary,-- Kindergarten. If every school-teacher in the land had a garden
of flowers and fruits to cultivate, it could hardly fail that he would learn to be wise in his vocation.
For suitable preparation, the first, second, and third thing is, to "Come forth into the light of
things, Let Nature be your teacher."

The "new education," as the French call it, begins with children in the mother's arms. Froebel
had the nurses bring to his establishment, in Hamburg, children who could
not talk, who were not more than three months old, and trained the nurses
to work on his principles and by his methods. This will hardly be
done in this country, at least at present; but to supply the place
of such a class, a lady of Boston has prepared and published, under
copyright, Froebel's First Gift, consisting of six soft balls of the
three primary and the three secondary colors, which are sold in a
box, with a little manual for mothers, in which the true principle
and plan of tending babies, so as not to rasp their nerves, but to
amuse without wearying them, is very happily suggested.

There is no mother or nurse who would not be assisted by this little manual essentially. As it says
in the beginning,-- "Tending babies is an art, and every art is founded
on a science of observations; for love is not wisdom, but love must
act according to wisdom in order to succeed. Mothers and nurses, however
tender and kind-hearted, may, and oftenest do, weary and vex the
nerves of children, in well-meant efforts to amuse them, and weary
themselves the while.

Froebel's exercises, founded on the observations of an intelligent sensibility, are intended
to amuse without wearying, to educate without vexing." Froebel's Second Gift for children, adapted
to the age from one to two or three years, with another little book
of directions, has also been published by the same lady, and is perhaps
a still greater boon to every nursery; for this is the age when many
a child's temper is ruined, and the inclination of the twig wrongly
bent, through sheer want of resource and idea, on the part of nurses
and mothers.

But it is to the next age-- from three years old and upwards-- that the Kindergarten becomes the desideratum,
if not a necessity. The isolated home, made into a flower-vase by the application of the principles
set forth in the Gifts [A] above mentioned, may do for babies.

But every mother and nurse knows how hard it is to meet the demands
of a child too young to be taught to read, but whose opening intelligence
and irrepressible bodily activity are so hard to be met by an adult,
however genial and active.

Children generally take the temper of their whole lives from this period of their existence. Then
"the twig is bent," either towards that habit of self-defence which is an ever-renewing cause of
selfishness, or to the sun of love-in-exercise, which is the exhaustless source of goodness and
beauty. [Footnote A: These Gifts, the private enterprise of an invalid lady, the same who
first brought the subject of Kindergartens so favorably before the public
in the Christian Examiner for November, 1858, can be procured at the Kindergarten,
15 Pinckney Street, Boston.] The indispensable thing now is a sufficient
society of children. It is only in the society of equals that the social
instinct can be gratified, and come into equilibrium with the instinct
of self-preservation.

Self-love, and love of others, are equally natural; and before reason is developed, and the proper
spiritual life begins, sweet and beautiful childhood may bloom out and imparadise our mortal
life. Let us only give the social instinct of children its fair chance. For this purpose, a few
will not do. The children of one family are not enough, and do not come along fast enough. A large
company should be gathered out of many families. It will be found that
the little things are at once taken out of themselves, and become
interested in each other.

In the variety, affinities develop themselves very prettily, and the rough points of rampant individualities
wear off.

We have seen a highly gifted child, who, at home, was-- to use a vulgar, but expressive word-- pesky
and odious, with the exacting demands of a powerful, but untrained mind
and heart, become "sweet as roses" spontaneously, amidst the rebound
of a large, well-ordered, and carefully watched child-society. Anxious
mothers have brought us children, with a thousand deprecations and
explanations of their characters, as if they thought we were going
to find them little monsters, which their motherly hearts were persuaded
they were not, though they behaved like little sanchos at home,--
and, behold, they were as harmonious, from the very beginning, as
if they had undergone the subduing influence of a lifetime.

We are quite sure that children begin with loving others quite as intensely as they love themselves,--
forgetting themselves in their love of others,-- if they only have
as fair a chance of being benevolent and self-sacrificing as of being
selfish.

Sympathy is as much a natural instinct as self-love, and no more or less innocent, in a moral point
of view. Either principle alone makes an ugly and depraved form of natural character. Balanced,
they give the element of happiness, and the conditions of spiritual goodness and truth,-- making
children fit temples for the Holy Ghost to dwell in. A Kindergarten,
then, is children in society,-- a commonwealth or republic of children,--
whose laws are all part and parcel of the Higher Law alone.

It may be contrasted, in every particular, with the old-fashioned school, which is an absolute
monarchy, where the children are subjected to a lower expediency, having for its prime end quietness,
or such order as has "reigned in Warsaw" since 1831. But let us not be misunderstood. We are not
of those who think that children, in any condition whatever, will
inevitably develop into beauty and goodness.

Human nature tends to revolve in a vicious circle, around the individuality;
and children must have over them, in the person of a wise and careful
teacher, a power which shall deal with them as God deals with the mature,
presenting the claims of sympathy and truth whenever they presumptuously
or unconsciously fall into selfishness.

We
have the best conditions of moral culture in a company large enough
for the exacting disposition of the solitary child to be balanced
by the claims made by others on the common stock of enjoyment,-- there
being a reasonable oversight of older persons, wide-awake to anticipate,
prevent, and adjust the rival pretensions which must always arise
where there are finite beings with infinite desires, while Reason,
whose proper object is God, is yet undeveloped.

Let the teacher always take for granted that the law of love is quick within, whatever are appearances,
and the better self will generally respond.

"And blest are they who in the main This faith even now do entertain, Live in the spirit of
this creed, Yet find another strength, according to their need." Such are the natural Kindergartners,
who prevent disorder by employing and entertaining children, so that
they are kept in an accommodating and loving mood by never being thrown
on self-defence,-- and when selfishness is aroused, who check it by
an appeal to sympathy, or Conscience, which is the presentiment of
reason, a fore-feeling of moral order, for whose culture material
order is indispensable.

But order must be kept by the child, not only unconsciously, but
intentionally.

Order is the child of reason, and in turn cultivates the intellectual principle. To bring out order
on the physical plane, the Kindergarten makes it a serious purpose to organize romping, and set
it to music, which cultivates the physical nature also. Romping is the ecstasy of the body, and we
shall find that in proportion as children tend to be violent they are vigorous in body. There
is always morbid weakness of some kind where there is no instinct for hard play; and it begins
to be the common sense that energetic physical activity must not
be repressed, but favored. Some plan of play prevents the little creatures
from hurting each other, and fancy naturally furnishes the plan,--
the mind unfolding itself in fancies, which are easily quickened and
led in harmless directions by an adult of any resource.

Those who have not imagination themselves must seek the aid of the Kindergarten guides, where
will be found arranged to music the labors of the peasant, and cooper,
and sawyer, the wind-mill, the watermill, the weather-vane, the clock,
the pigeon-house, the hares, the bees, and the cuckoo. Children delight
to personate animals, and a fine genius could not better employ itself
than in inventing a great many more plays, setting them to rhythmical
words, describing what is to be done.

Every variety of bodily exercise might be made and kept within the bounds of order and beauty by plays involving
the motions of different animals and machines of industry. Kindergarten
plays are easy intellectual exercises; for to do anything whatever
with a thought beforehand develops the mind or quickens the intelligence;
and thought of this kind does not try intellect, or check physical
development, which last must never be sacrificed in the process of
education.

There are enough instances of marvellous acquisition in infancy to show that imbibing with the
mind is as natural as with the body, if suitable beverage is put to the lips; but in most cases
the mind's power is balanced by instincts of body, which should have priority, if they cannot certainly be
in full harmony.

The mind can afford to wait for the maturing of the body, for it survives the body; while the body
cannot afford to wait for the mind, but is irretrievably stunted,
if the nervous energy is not free to stimulate its special organs
at least equally with those of the mind.

It is not, however, necessary to sacrifice the culture of either mind or body, but to harmonize
them. They can and ought to grow together. They mutually help each other. Doctor Dio Lewis's
"Free Exercises" are also suitable to the Kindergarten, and may be
taken in short lessons of a quarter of an hour, or even of ten minutes.


To this resolution he did not adhere. With the exception of two short entries in the same month,
he wrote nothing in his diary for the remainder of the year. The difficulties of his position,
perhaps a lack of sufficient employment, and the want of that instant watchfulness without
which the disciple is ever prone to stray from his Master's side, seem to have again produced,
as they did twelve months before, a season of spiritual famine.

His own gloomy condition did not, however, altogether disable him from sympathizing with others.
In a letter to his brother of the 4th of the Eleventh Month he says;--

I have of late been in such a low tried state of mind, that I have been discouraged from writing
thee, under an apprehension I should say nothing that would afford thee any satisfaction in
reading. But though I may not have it in my power to relieve thee, I hope it will not be unpleasant
to thee to know that thou art still more dear and near to me than ever thou wast in the times
of more apparent outward prosperity. It is a high attainment to know how to set a right value
on perishable things, and it requires no small degree of fortitude to bear the depression of
apparent temporary adversity, in that disposition of mind which becomes the character of a
true Christian. Although, according to our apprehensions, the storm may last long, yet it most
assuredly will blow over, and then greater will be our peace than if we had never known a tempest.

On resuming his Diary, which he did in the First Month of 1825, John Yeardley gives an account
of the events which happened to him during the previous few months.

In the Seventh Month 1824, Thomas Shillitoe and Elizabeth H. Walker came to Pyrmont, and to
the latter J.Y. gave his assistance in various religious engagements. After her departure he
again visited Minden, with the neighboring villages of Eidinghausen and Hille. His visit to
the last-named place (1 mo. 13, 1825) was marked by a singular circumstance.

Finding a sudden draft [in my mind] to be at the reading meeting in Hille, to begin at two
o'clock, there seemed but little time; however, proposing it to my dear friend John Rasche,
he was quite willing to accompany me, and driving quickly we came in due time. When the [meeting]
was over, the Friends told me they thought it very remarkable that we should come unexpectedly
on that day, and that what was communicated after the reading was particularly suited to the
state of a woman Friend present, who was laboring under the temptation that she had committed
the unpardonable sin, and could find no rest day or night. I could not prevent them from expressing
their thankfulness for such a mark of Providential interference, in this way to afford the
poor woman a little relief and encouragement.

Four days afterwards, having then returned to Friedensthal, J.Y. adds:--"Since our visit to
Hille, the person above-mentioned is dead!"

The depression under which John Yeardley labored, from the loss of that comfortable presence
of his Lord which had been almost from his youth as a lamp shining continually upon his head,
seems to have reached its lowest point in the early part of this year. Under date of the 24th
of the Second Month he says:--

I have this morning once more been enabled to pour out my sorrowful spirit before the Father
of mercies in a way that has afforded me some relief and encouragement. In bitterness, and,
I may almost say, in agony of soul have I spread before him some of those circumstances which
have been a cause of unspeakable distress to me for many months past, and rendered me unfit
for almost every service, temporal or spiritual.

Thou knowest, O gracious Father, I long to have my ways and steps regulated by thy holy will.
Therefore I beseech thee, have mercy on my faults, and blot out from thy remembrance all my
sins, and everything wherein I have in weakness offended thee; and be pleased to give me strength
to become more perfectly and lastingly thine. O how sensibly do I feel my own weakness, and
that without thee I can do nothing, not for a moment preserve my own steps.

In the midst of his discouragement his mind was directed towards the accomplishment of another
part of the commission which had been entrusted to him before he left England.--viz., to sojourn
for a time amongst the Friends in the South of France. Accordingly, early in the Third Month
he went to Minden, and laid before the Two-months' Meeting, his intention of going to Congenies
for this purpose, and also of seeking a religious interview with some serious people in the
neighborhood of Cologne.

This information, he says, was received by my friends with much sympathy and, I trust, weightiness
of spirit, and I felt a little strengthened by the expression of their feelings and unity with
me in this concern. "One can never know the next mood that one of these Axtells will take," I said
to myself, in the stillness that followed his going. "He might have answered me, at least."
Then I reproached Anna Percival for cherishing uncharity towards tried humanity. There's a way appointed
for escape, I know, and I sought it, burying my face in my hands, and leaning over the stillness
of my mother's heart. I heard steps drawing near. Looking up, I saw Mr. Axtell entering the
inclosure. He had brought one of the church pew-cushions.

"Will you rise?" he asked.

He did not bring the cushion to where I was; he carried it around and spread it in a vacant
spot between two graves, the place left beside my mother for my precious father's white hairs to
be laid in. Having deposited it there, he looked at me, evidently expecting that I would avail
myself of his kindness. I wanted to refuse. I felt perfectly comfortable where I was. I should
have done so, had not my intention been intercepted by a shaft of expression that crossed my
vein of humor unexpectedly.

It was only a look from out of his eyes. They were absolutely colorless,-- not white, not black,
but a strange mingling of all hues made them everything to my view,-- and yet so full of coloring
that no one ray came shining out and said, "I'm blue, or black, or gray;" but something said,
if not the mandate of color, "Obey!"

I did.

"Sacrilege!" I said. "It is a place for worship."

"Whose grave is this?" Mr. Axtell asked, as he bent down and laid his hand upon the sod. It was
upon the one next beyond my mother's; between the two it was that
he had placed the cushion.

"The
head-stone is just there.

You can read, can you not?"

I asked, with a spice of malice, because for the second time this
barbaric gentleman had commanded me to obey.

He lifted himself up, leaned against the towering family-monument,
and slowly said,-- "Miss Percival, it is very hard for an Axtell to
forgive."

I thought of the face in the Upper Country, and asked,-- "Why?"

"Because the Creator has almost deprived them of forgiving power.

Don't tempt one of them to sin by giving occasion for the exercise
of that wherein they mourn at being deficient."

I pulled dead grassy fibres again, and said nothing. The second time he bent to the mound of
earth, and said,-- "Please tell me now, Miss Anna, whose grave this
is;" and there were tears in his eyes that made them for the moment
grandly brown.

"Truly, Mr. Axtell, I do not know.

I've been so busy with the living that I've not thought much of this
place.

It long since all these died, you know;" and I looked about upon the little village closed in by
the iron railing.

"I do not know that I can tell you one, save my mother's, here. I remember her; the others I cannot."
I arose to walk around to the headstone and see. "No," he said. "Will you listen to me a little
while?" "If you'll sing for me." "Sing for you?"-- and there was a world of reproach in his meaning.
"Is this a place for songs? or am I a man to sing?"

"Why not, Mr. Axtell?

Aaron told me that you could sing, if you would; he has heard you."

"I will sing for you," he said, "if, after I am done, you choose
to hear the song I sing."

I thought again of Miss Lettie, and put the question, once unheeded, concerning her. "She is better.
Your sister is a charming nurse."

A long quiet ensued; in it came the memory of Dr. Eaton's interest
in the young girl's face.

"Is Mr. Axtell an artist?" I asked, after the silence. "Mr. Axtell
is a church-sexton," was the response.

"Cannot he be both sexton and artist?" "How can he?"

"You have a strange way of telling me that I ought not to question
you," I said, vexed at his non-committal words and manner.

He changed the subject widely, when next he spoke. "Have you the
letter that you picked up last night?" he asked.

"Yes,
Mr. Axtell." "Give it to me, please."

"Did Miss Lettie commission you to ask?" "She did not."

"Then I cannot give it to you."

"Cannot give me my sister's letter?"

"It was to me that it was intrusted." "And you are afraid to trust me with it?" "I am afraid
to break the trust reposed in myself."

Again the black roll of silent thunder gloomed on his brow; as once
his sister's eyes had been, his now were coruscant.

"Do you refuse to give it to me?" he demanded.

"I do," I said, "now, and until Miss Lettie says,'Give.'"

"You've learned the contents, I presume," he said, with untold sarcasm.

"Woman's curiosity digs deeply, when once aroused."

"You've been taught of woman in a sad school, I fear.

I'll forgive the faults of your education, Mr. Axtell.

Have you any more remarks to me?

I'm waiting."

"Do you know the contents of the letter that made Lettie so anxious?"

"You accused me before questioning formerly, or I should have given
you truth.

I have no knowledge of what is in the letter." He had resumed his former position, leaning against
the monument, where I had mine.

He changed it now, drawing nearer for an instant, then went to the
side of the grave that he had asked me concerning, kneeled there,
laid two hands above it, and said,-- "Letty was right, Miss Anna.

God has made you well,-- made you after the similitude of her who
sleeps underneath this sod.

Will you forgive my rudeness?" And he looked down as I had done, ere he came, into the tangled,
matted fibres, then out into the great all-where of air, as if some
mysterious presence encompassed him.

Very lowly I said,-- "Forgiveness is of God;" and I remembered the vision that came in my dream. The
little voice that steals into hearts crowded with emotions, and tells
tiny nerves of wish which way to fly, went whispering through the
niches of my mind, "Tell the dream."

Mr. Axtell went back to his monumental resting-place.

I said,-- "I have had a wonderful dream to-day;" and I began to tell the opening thereof. The first
sentence was not told when I stopped, suddenly.

I could not go on. He asked me, "Why?" I only re-uttered what I felt, that I could not tell it.
"Oh! I have had a dream," he said,-- "one that for eighteen years has been hung above my days
and woven into my nights,-- a great, hopeless woof of doom.

I have tried to broider it with gold, I have tried to hang silver-bells upon the drooping corners thereof. I have
tried to fold it about me and wear it, as other men wear sorrows,
for the sun of heaven and the warmth of society to draw the wrinkled
creases out.

I have striven to fold it up, and lay it by in the arbor-vitae chest of memory, with myrrh and
camphor, but it will not be exorcised.

No, no! it hangs firm as granite, stiff as the axis of the sun, unapproachable
as the aurora of the North.

Miss Percival, could you wear such a vestment in the march of life?" "Your dream is too mystical;
will you tell me what it has done for you? As yet, I only know what you have not done with it."
"What it has done for me?"-- and he went slowly on, thinking half
aloud, as if the idea were occurring for the first time.

"It touched me one soft summer day, before the earth became mildewed
and famine-stricken.

I was a proud, wilful Axtell boy; all the family traits were written
with a white-hot pen on me.

My will, my great high will, went ringing chimes of what I would
do through the house where I was born, where my mother has just died,
and I swung this right arm forth into the air of existence, and said,'I
will do what I will; men shall say I am a master in the land.'"

My father sent me away from home for education.

I walked
with intrepid mind through the course where others halted, weary, overladen, unfit for burden.
"To gain the valedictory oration was one goal that I had said I would attain to. I did. That
was nineteen years ago. I came home in the soft, hot, August-time.

It was the close of the month. The moon was at its highest flood of light. I was at the highest tide
of will-might. That night, if any one had told me I could not do that which I had a wish to accomplish,
I would have made my desire triumphant, or death would have been my only conqueror. Oh! it is dreadful
to have such a nature handed down from the dark past, and thrust into one's life, to be battled
with, to be hewn down at last, unless the lightning of God's wrath
cleaves into the spirit and wakes up the volcano, which forever after
emits only fire and sulphur.

There's yet one way more, after the lightning-stroke comes,-- something unutterable, something that
canopies the soul with doom, and forever the spirit tries to raise
its wings and fly away, but every uplifting strikes fire, until, singed,
scorched, burnt, wings grow useless, and droop down, never more to
be uplifted."

Mr. Axtell drooped his arms, as if typical of the wings he had described.
Borne away by the excitement of his words, he stood straight up against
the far-away sky, with the verdure of Norway-evergreens soothingly
waving their green around him.

There was a magnificence of mien in the man, that made my spirit say-- "The Deity made that
man for great deeds." He glanced down at the grave once more, and resumed:-- "I came home that
August night. The prairie of Time rolled out limitless before my imagination. I built pyramids
of fame; I laid the foundation of Babel once more, in my heart,-- for I said,'My name shall
touch the stars,-- my name! Abraham Axtell!'It is only written in
earth, ground to powder, to-day."

"An atom of earth's powder may be a star to eyes vast enough to see the fulness that dwells therein,
until to angelic vision our planet stands out a universe of starry
suns, each particle of dust luminous with eternities of limitless
space between," I said, as he, pausing, stooped, and stirred the crisp
grass, to outline his name there.

"All things are possible," he murmured, "but the rending of my mantle of doom." He looked from
the tracing of his name to the west. "The sun is going down once more," he said, and bowed his head,
as one does, waiting for pastoral benediction. His eyes were fixed now, as I had seen his sister's
held, but his lips poured out words. "The moonlight sheened the earth, hot and heavy and still,
that night. My father, mother, and Lettie were in the home where you have seen sorrow come.
Up from the sea came the low, hollow boom of surges rising over the crust of land."'To the sea,
to the sea, let us go!'I cried;'it is the very night to tread the hall of moonbeams that leads
to palace of pearls!'"My mother was weary; she would have stayed at home, but I was her pearl
of price; she forgot herself. You know the stream that comes down from
the mountain and empties into the ocean. It was in that stream that
my boat floated, and a long walk away. Lettie left us. Just after we started,
I missed her, and asked where she had gone."'You'll see soon,'replied
my mother; and even as I looked back, I saw Lettie following, with
a shadow other than her own falling on the midsummer grass.

She did not hasten; she did not seek to come
up with us. My mother was walking beside me. "Thus we came to the
river, at the place where it wanders out into the ocean. I saw my boat,
my River-Ribbon, floating its cable-length, but never more, and undulating
to the throbs of tide that pulsated along the blue vein of water,
heralding the motion of the heart outside.

We stopped
there.

The moon was set in the firmament
high and fast, as when it was made to rule the night.

The hall of light, lit up along the twinkling
way of waters, looked shining and beckoning in its wavy ways of grace,
a very home for the restless spirit. I wanted to thread its labyrinth
of sparkles; I wanted to cool my wings of desire in its phosphorescent
dew.

I said,--"'I
am going out upon the sea.'"My mother seemed troubled."'Abraham, the boat
is unsafe; the water comes through. See! it is half full now'; and
she pointed to where it lay in the stream, lined with a mimic portraiture
of the endless corridor of moonlight that went playing across the
bit of water it held.

"'This is childish,
this is folly,'I thought,'to be stayed on such a spirit mission by
a few cups of water in a boat!

What
shall I ever accomplish in life, if I yield thus?-- and without waiting
to more than half hear, certainly not to obey, my father's stern'Stay
on shore, Abraham,'I went down the bank, stepped into a bit of a bark,
and pushed it into the stream, where my boat was now rocking on the
strengthened flow of ocean's rise."

I came to the boat,
bailed out the water with a tin cup that lay floating inside, and
calling back to land,'Go home without me; do not wait,'I took the oars,
and in my River-Ribbon, set free from its anchorage, I commenced
rowing against the tide.

I looked back to the bank
I was fast leaving. I saw figures standing there. "'They'll go home
soon,'I said, and I turned my eyes steadfastly toward the sheeny track,
all crimpled and curled with fibrous net-work, and rowed on." It
was a glorious night,-- a night when one toss of a mermaid's hair,
made visible above the waters, as she flew along the track I was pursuing,
would have been worth a life of rowing against this incoming tide.

"You have never tried to row, Miss Anna. You don't know how
hard it is to push a boat out of a river when the sea sends up full
veins to course the strong arms she reaches up into the land."

For one moment, as he addressed me, his eyes lost their
rapt look; they went back to it, and he to his story. "I saw the
fin of a shark dancing in the waves. Sharks were nothing for me. I did
not look down into my boat. No, men never do; they look beyond where
they are. They're a sorry race, Miss Anna." The shark went down after
some bit of prey more delicious than I. My will would have been hard
for him to manage.

I forgot the shark. I forgot the figures standing, waiting
on the shore that I had left, ere Lettie and the shadow that walked with
her, whatever it was, had come to it. I forgot everything but the phosphorescent
dew that would cool my spirit, athirst for what I knew not, ravenous
for refreshment, searching for manna where it never grew.

The plaudits of yesterday
were ringing in my ears, the wavelets danced to their music, my oars
kept time to the vanity measure of my beating mind. Still I was not
content. I wanted something more. A faded flower, an althea-bud,
was still pendent from my coat. I had taken it out from the mass of
flowers with which I had been honored. I noticed it now. The moon
dewed it over with its yellowness.'An offering to the sea-nymphs!'I said,
and I cast it forth into the wide field. It did not go down, as I had
fancied it would. No, it went on, whither the movement of the ceaseless
dance of motion carried it. I leaned upon my oars and watched it until
it went out of the illuminated track.

I was now in the bay, outside the river.

I looked once more
shoreward.

I had threaded the curve of the stream, and could not see
around the point. No living human thing was in sight. I was alone
with Nature in the night, when she looks down glories, and spreads
out fields where we long to walk, and our footsteps are fast in clay.

I was
not far from shore; it lay dark behind me; it was only before that I could
see. As I paused in my rowing to watch the althea-bud set afloat, I heard
a tiny splash in the waters. "'A school of fish flashing up a moment,'I
thought, and did not further heed it." The man looked as if he were
now out at sea. He turned his head the least bit: the effect against
the sky was fine. He had an attitude of watching and listening.

Feeling attracted towards the inhabitants of Mühlheim on the Ruhr, the Friends again turned
out of the direct road and crossing the Rhine a little beyond Duisburg, arrived in the evening
at Mühlheim. They found a company of Separatists in the neighborhood of the town, some of whom
they visited; and the next day they passed over the Ruhr, and, with the assistance of a school-master,
convened a meeting for worship. At the time appointed nearly three hundred persons assembled,
mostly of the poorer class. They were seated in a large school-room, the men on one side and
the women on the other, waiting in silence. They had a good meeting, and at the conclusion
the auditory expressed their unwillingness to part, and their desire that those who had ministered
to them should visit them again.

On the 27th, after calling upon some descendants of Gerhard Tersteegen, our Friends proceeded
through Düsseldorf to Cologne. They were disappointed of finding in the neighborhood of this
city, that company of religious people on whose account they had felt much interested, and
of whom they had heard that "they held principles like the Quakers, and were as obstinate in
them as they are." They did no more here than call upon a few serious persons in the city,
and then went forwards to Neuwied, hoping there to hear of them.

At Neuwied, besides becoming acquainted with the Moravian preachers and others, they were called
upon by some of the Inspirirten, who invited them to their meetings. They attended one of these;
but, being dissatisfied with the manner of the service, and not finding relief for their spiritual
exercise, though the opportunity of speaking was offered without reserve, they in turn invited
the company to meet with them the next morning after the manner of Friends. The meeting was
held to mutual satisfaction, and one of the leading men amongst the Inspirirten expressed the
hope that it would be blessed to them; for he was, he said, sensible of the want of less activity
and more of silent waiting in their religious assemblies.

The society to which these people belonged divided in 1818 into two branches, after an awakening
which took place that year; those who separated believing it to be incumbent upon them to lead
more self-denying lives, and dwell more closely under the influence of the Holy Spirit. This
new connection was the people of whom our Friends had heard; and they learnt that they had
retired to a place called Schwartzenau, near Berlenburg, a small town at the eastern end of
the barren hilly region known as the Sauerland. The distance of this place from Neuwied is
considerable, and the roads amongst the worst in Germany; but John Yeardley and Martha Savory
apprehended they could not peacefully pursue their journey without attempting to visit them.

Accordingly they left Neuwied on the 1st of the Eleventh Month, and proceeded to Montabauer.
The road led them at first amongst some of the choicest scenery of the Rhine; but after a while
they left the river and struck into the interior of the country, in a north-easterly direction.
The next day they passed through a place where, a few months before, a Diligence had been robbed.
The robbers, who had been taken a fortnight after the offence, were then, as they were informed,
in Limburg gaol, and were to be hanged the next day. They were ten in number, all members of
one family. At Burbach they met with an English landlord, thirty-five years resident in Germany;
he was delimited to see his fellow-countrymen, and exerted himself to give them the best entertainment
his house afforded. The country they passed through was very hilly, and overgrown with forest;
now and then a solitary dwelling was seen in the bottom of the deep valleys.

On the 3rd they came to Siegen, an ancient and antique town on the side of a high hill, looking,
as one of the party observed, as though they had reached the end of the world. And, indeed,
it seemed almost like the end of the civilised world; for they were informed that the road
from thence to Berlenburg was in such a miserable condition that they could take their carriage
no farther. They resolved, however, to make the attempt, and providing themselves with a tandem
horse (vorspann) and a guide, and sending on their luggage, they set forth on the way to Letze,
a village where they proposed to lodge; but the waters were abroad from the overflow of the
rivers, and the road being extremely narrow, and the ruts deep, they made very slow progress.
Sometimes the way was so impracticable that they had to take the carriage through the woods
which skirted the road. Darkness and rain coming on obliged them to halt for the night at Netphen,
and seek shelter in the humble dwelling of a woman, who at first took alarm at the unexpected
appearance of so many strangers. The account which the guide gave respecting the travellers
dispelled her fears, and she did what she could by hospitality to make up for the scantiness
of her accommodation. She gave them also some information respecting the Inspirirten, whom
they were on the way to visit, speaking favorably of them. His good-evening, and inquiry concerning
the college named on the card of the writer, were in a tone that at once placed his visitor at
ease.

"Your first visit to Washington, Mr.----?"

"Yes, Sir. Like others, I have been attracted by the political crisis,
and the purpose of studying it from unprejudiced sources."

"Crisis? Oh, that's past."

The writer will not soon forget the tone of perfect confidence and nonchalance with which this
was uttered. The time was the last week of December, 1860.

"You are confident, then, Sir, that fifteen States will secede?"

"Secede? Certainly,-- they must secede. You Northerners,-- you are from a Northern college,
I believe,"-- referring to the writer's card,-- "you Northerners wish to make a new Constitution,
or rather to give such an interpretation to the old one as to make it virtually a new document.
How can society be kept together, if men will not keep their compacts? Our fathers provided, in
adopting their Constitution, for the protection of their property. But here are four billions
of the property of the South which you propose to outlaw from the common Territories. You say
to us, by your elected President, by your House of Representatives, by your Senate, by your
Supreme Court, in short, by every means through which one party can speak to another, that
these four billions of property, representing the toil of the head and hand of the South for
the last two hundred years, shall not be respected in the Territories as your property is
respected there. And this property, too, is property which you tax and which you allow to be
represented; but yet you will not protect it. How can we remain? We should be happy to remain,
if you would treat us as equals; but you tax us, and will not protect us. We will resist. D--
n it,"-- this and other striking expressions are precisely Mr. Toombs's language,-- "we will
meet you on the border with the bayonet. Society cannot be kept together, unless men will keep
their compacts."

This was said without the intonation of fierceness or malignity, but
with great decision and the vigor of high spirit.

It was taking, of course, with considerable emphasis, a side in a famous Constitutional question,
familiar to all readers of American Congressional Debates, once supported by Mr. Calhoun,
and rather strangely, too, with that philosophical leader, confusing the absurdly asserted State
right of seceding at will with the undoubted right, when there exists no peaceful remedy, of
seceding from intolerable oppression: an entire position which Mr.
Webster especially, and subsequent statesmen, in arguments elucidating
the nature and powers of the General Government, to say nothing of
the respect due to a moral sentiment concerning slavery, which, permeating
more than a majority of the people, has the force, when properly expressed,
wherever the Constitution has jurisdiction, of supreme law, are thought
by most men, once and forever, to have satisfactorily answered.

It was a complaint, certainly, which the South had had ever since the Constitution was formed,
and which could with no plausibility be brought forward as a justification of war, while there
existed a Constitutional tribunal for adjusting difficulties of Constitutional interpretation.
Yet, as it was almost universally asserted, of course, by the Northern partisan presses, and
by Northern Congressmen, that the Rebellion was utterly causeless, and as the writer was therefore
exceedingly anxious to obtain, concerning their grievances, the latest opinions of the Southern
leaders, as stated by themselves, he ventured to propose, in a pause of Mr. Toombs's somewhat
rapid rhetoric, a question which, at that moment, seemed of central importance to the candid
philosophical inquirer into the moving forces of the times:-- "Are
we, then, Sir, to consider Mr. Calhoun's old complaint-- the non-recognition
of slave-property under the Federal Constitution-- as constituting
now the chief grievance of the South?"

"Undoubtedly," was Mr. Toombs's instant reply, "it all turns on that. What you tax you must protect." This
is the very strongest argument of the Southern side.

But the alleged slave-property is protected, though only under municipal
law, by the Constitution.

To protect
it elsewhere is against its whole spirit, and, in the present state of public sentiment, against
its very letter. Originally, as is well known, it was not proposed to protect at all, under
the General Government, property so monstrous, except as it became necessary as a compromise, in
order to secure a union. But the provision of the Constitution that the slave-trade should be abolished,
the absolute power given to Congress to make all laws for the Territories,
the spirit of the preamble, the principles of the Declaration, indeed,
the whole history of the origin and adoption of the fundamental law,
prove that its principle and its expectation were, if not absolutely
to place slavery in the States in process of extinction, at least
never to recognize it except indirectly and remotely under municipal
law, not even by admitting the word slave to its phraseology.

"Even in the Northern States themselves, to say nothing of the Territories, I am not safe with
my property. I can travel through France or England and be safe; but if I happen to lose my servant
up in Vairmount,"-- Mr. Toombs pronounced the word with a somewhat marked accent of derision,-- "and undertake
to recover him, I get jugged. Besides, your Northern statesmen are far from being honest.
Here is Billy Seward, for instance,"-- with a gesture toward his neighbor's house,-- "who says slavery
is contrary to the Higher Law, and that he is bound as a Christian
to obey the Higher Law; but yet he takes an oath to uphold the Constitution,
which protects slavery.

This inconsistency runs through most of the Northern platforms. How can we
live with such men?

They will not be true even to a compact which they themselves acknowledge." "You would think,
then, Wendell Phillips, for instance, more consistent in his political opinions than Mr. Seward?"
"Certainly. I can understand his position.'Slavery,'he says,'is wrong. The Constitution protects slavery;
therefore I will have nothing to do with the Constitution, and cannot become a citizen.'This
is logical and consistent. I can respect such a position as that." Here Mr. Toombs-- ejecting,
as perhaps the writer ought not to relate, a competent mass of tobacco-saliva into the blazing coal--
paused somewhat reflectively, perhaps unpleasantly revolving certain possible indirect influences
of the position he had characterized.

"Upon which side, Sir, do you think there is usually the most misunderstanding,-- on the part of
the North concerning the South? or on the part of the South concerning
the North?"

"Oh, by all odds," he replied, instantly, "we understand you best. We send fifty thousand travellers,
more or less, North every summer to your watering-places. Hot down in Mobile,"-- his style taking
somewhat unpleasantly the intonation as well as the negligence of
the bar-room,-- "can't live in Mobile in the summer.

Then your papers circulate more among us than ours among you. Our daughters are educated at Northern boarding-schools,
our sons at Northern colleges: both my colleague and myself were educated
at Northern colleges. For these reasons, by all odds, we have a better
opportunity for understanding you than you have for understanding
us."

"In case of general secession and war," the writer ventured next to inquire, "would there probably,
in your opinion, be danger of a slave insurrection?" "None at all.

Certainly far less than of'Bread or Blood'riots at the North." The writer was surprised to find, notwithstanding
Mr. Toombs's eulogy of Southern opportunities, his understanding of the North so imperfect, and
still more surprised at the political and social principles involved in the spirit of what followed.
"Your poor population can hold ward-meetings, and can vote. But we know better how to take care of
ours. They are in the fields, and under the eye of their overseers. There can be little danger
of an insurrection under our system." The subject and the manner of the man, in spite of his better
qualities, were becoming painful, and the writer ventured only one
more remark.

"An ugly time, certainly, if war comes between North and South." "Ugly time? Oh, no!" The writer will
never forget the tone of utter carelessness and nonchalance with
which the last round-toned exclamation was uttered.

"Oh, no! War is nothing. Never more than a tenth part of the adult
population of a country in the field.

We have four million voters. Say a tenth of them, or four hundred thousand men, are in the field
on both sides. A tenth of them would be killed or die of camp diseases. But they would die, any way.
War is nothing." The tone perfectly proved this belief, not badinage.

"Some property would be destroyed, towns injured, fences overturned, and the Devil raised generally;
but then all that would have a good effect.

Only yaller-covered-literature men and editors make a noise about war. Wars are to history what storms are
to the atmosphere,-- purifiers.

We shall meet, as we ought, whoever invades our rights, with the bayonet. We are the gentlemen of this
land, and gentlemen always make revolutions in history."

This was said in the tone of an injured, but haughty man, with perfect
intellectual poise and earnestness, yet with a fervor of feeling that
brought the speaker erect in his chair.

The significance of the last remarks, which the writer can make oath
he has preserved verbatim, being somewhat calculated to draw on a
debate, of course wholly unfitted to the time and place, the writer,
apologizing for having taken so much time at a formal interview, and
receiving, of course, a most courteous invitation to renew the call,
found himself, after but twenty minutes'conversation, on the street,
in the lonely December evening, with a mind full of reflections.

The utter recklessness concerning life and property with which the splendid intellect, under the
lead of the ungovernable passions of this man, was plunging the nation
into a civil war of which no one could foresee the end, was the thought
uppermost.

Certainly, the abstract manliness of asserting rights supposed to be infringed it was in itself impossible
not to respect. But the man seemed to love war for its own sake, as pugnacious schoolboys love sham-fights,
with a sort of glee in the smell of the smoke of battle. The judicial calmness of statesmanship
had entirely disappeared in the violence of sectional passion.

Perhaps he might be capable of ruining his country from pure love
of turbulence and power, could he but find a pretext of force sufficient
to blind first himself and then others.

Yet Robert Toombs, in the Senate Chamber, takes little children in his arms, and is one of the kindest
of the noblemen of Nature in the sphere of his unpolitical sympathies. Too long already have we
listened to this delusive song. I am content, whatever it be, to peril all in so noble, so holy
a cause. Sincere, but undoubtedly mistaken, Mr. Toombs! It would be a war in which we should
have no sympathies, no good wishes, in which all mankind would be
against us; for, from the commencement of the Revolution down to the
present time, we have constantly reproached our British ancestors
for the introduction of slavery into this country.

"-- HENRY CLAY, Congressional Globe, Part II., Vol. 22, p. 117.] Sick at heart, as the future
of the nation stood to his dim vision through the present, the writer
found his way to his hotel.

At this time the North was silent, apparently apathetic, unbelieving, almost criminally allowed to be
undeceived by its presses and by public men who had means of information, while this volcano continued
to prepare itself thus defiantly beneath the very feet of a President sworn to support the laws!*****
The formal interview with the Honorable R. M. T. Hunter was sought in company with two other students
of New-England colleges. We had hoped to meet Mr. Mason at the same
apartments, but were disappointed.

The great contrast of personal character between Mr. Hunter and Mr. Toombs made the concurrence
of the former in the chief views presented by the latter the more significant. The careful habits
of thought, the unostentatiousness, and the practical common sense for which the Virginian farmer
is esteemed, and which had made his name a prominent one for President of a Central Confederacy,
in case of the separate secession of the Border States, were curiously manifested both in
his apartments and his manner. The chamber was apparently at a boarding-house, but very plainly furnished
with red cotton serge curtains and common hair-cloth chairs and sofa. The Senator's manner of speech
was slow, considerate,-- indeed, sometimes approaching awkwardness
in its plain, farmer-like simplicity.

One of the first questions was the central one, concerning the chief grievance of the South, which
had been presented to Mr. Toombs." Yes, "was Mr. Hunter's reply, somewhat less promptly given," it may
be said to come chiefly from that,-- the non-recognition of our property under the Constitution. We
wish our property recognized, as we think the Constitution provides.

We should like to remain with the North. "He spoke without a particle of expressed passion
or ardor, though by no means incapable, when aroused, as those who have seen his plethoric countenance
and figure can testify, of both." We are mutually helpful to each other.
We want to use your navy and your factories. You want our cotton. The North to manufacture,
and the South to produce, would make the strongest nation.

But, if we separate, we shall try to do more in Virginia than we
do now.

We shall make mills on our streams. "His language was chiefly Saxon monosyllables." The climate is
not as severe, the nights are not as long with us as with you. I think we can do well at manufacturing
in Virginia. The Chesapeake Bay and our rivers should aid commerce. As for the slaves, I think there is little
danger of any trouble. There may be some, "he said, with a frankness
that surprised us slightly, but in the same moderate, honest way,
his hands clasped upon his breast, and the extended feet rubbing together
slowly," in the Cotton States, where they are very thick together;
but I think that there is very little danger in Virginia.

The way they take to rise in never shows much skill.

The last time they rose in our State, I think the attempt was brought
on by some sign in an eclipse of the moon.

"Nearly all that passed of political interest is contained in the foregoing sentences, except one
honest reply to a question concerning his opinion of the probability
of the North's attempting coercion." If only three States go out, they
may coerce, "said Mr. Hunter;" but if fifteen go, I guess they won't
try.

"At the present period of the Rebellion, this indication of the anticipations of its leaders in
engaging in it must be of interest. It must be understood that the writer and his companions presented
themselves simply as students, with no fixed exclusive predilections for either of the public
parties in politics,-- which, in the writer's case at least, was certainly a statement wholly true,--
and that this evident freedom from political bias secured perhaps an
unusual share of the confidence of the Southern Senators.

It will be remembered, also, that in every conversation, however startling the revelation of criminal
purpose or absurd motive, the manner of these Senators was always
totally devoid of any approach to that vulgar intellectual levity
which too often, in treating of public affairs, painfully characterizes
the fifth-rate men whom the North sometimes chooses to make its representatives.

The manner of the Southern leaders was to us a sufficient proof of their sincerity.***** At the
house of the Honorable Jefferson Davis, now in the world's gaze President
of the then nascent Confederacy, the writer, in the intelligent and
genial company of the graduate of Harvard and the student of Amherst
before mentioned, called formally, on the evening of the New Year's
reception-day.

A representative from one of the Southwestern States was present, but we were soon admitted
to the front of the open blazing grate of the reception-parlor.

We had before seen Mr. Davis busy in the Senate. The urbanity, the intellectual energy, and the
intensely shrewd watchfulness and ambition, combined with a covertly
expressed, but powerful native instinct for strategy and command,
which have made Mr. Davis a public leader, were evident at the first
glance.

The Senator seemed compact of ambition, will, intellect, activity, and shrewdness. A high and broad, but
square forehead; the aquiline nose; the square, fighting chin; the
thin, compressed, but flexible lips; the almost haggardly sunken cheek;
the piercing, not wholly uncovered eye; the dark, somewhat thinning
hair; the clear, slightly browned, nervous complexion, all well given
in the best current photographs, were united to a figure slightly
bent in the shoulders, of more respiratory than digestive breadth,
in outlines almost equally balancing ruggedness and grace, of compactness
wrought by the pressure of perhaps few more than fifty summers, not
above medium height, but composed throughout of silk and steel.

A certain similarity between the decorations of the parlor and the character of the owner, perhaps
more fanciful than real, at once attracted attention. Everything was simple, graceful, and rich,
without being tropically luxuriant; the paintings appeared to be often of airy, winged, or white-robed
figures, that suggested a reflective and not unimaginative mind in
the one who had chosen them.

This was the leader whom Mr. Calhoun's fervent political metaphysics
and his own ambition for place and power had misled.

His conversation was remarkable in manner for perfect unostentatiousness, clearness, and self-control,
and in matter for breadth and minuteness of political information. In the whole conversation, he
never uttered a broken or awkwardly constructed sentence, nor wavered, while stating facts,
by a single intonation. This considerable intellectual energy, combined
with courtesy, was his chief fascination. Yet, underneath all lay an
atmosphere of covert haughtiness, and, at times, even of audacious
remorselessness, which, under stimulative circumstances, were to
be feared.

Undoubtedly, passion and ambition were natively stronger in the countenance than reason, conscience,
and general sympathy,-- an observation best felt to be true when
the face was compared in imagination with the faces of some of the
world's chief benefactors; but culture, native urbanity, and a powerful
reflective tendency had evidently so wrought, that, though conscience
might be imperilled frequently by great adroitness in the casuistry
of self-excuse, justice could not be consciously opposed for any length
of time without powerful silent reaction.

The quantity of being, however, though superior, was not of so high a measure as the quality, and
the principal deficiencies, though perhaps almost the sole ones, were plainly moral. In his presence,
no man could deny to him something of that dignity, of a kind superior
to that of intellect and will, which must be possessed by every leader
as a basis of confidence.

But mournful severe truth would testify that there was yet, at times, palpably something of the treacherous
serpent in the eye, and it could not readily be told where it would
strike.

In reply to a reference to a somewhat celebrated speech by Senator Benjamin
of Louisiana, which we had heard the day previous, he said that we
might consider it, as a whole, a very fair statement both of the arguments
and the purposes of the South.

Perhaps a speech of more horrible doctrine, upheld by equal argumentative and rhetorical power, has never
been heard in the American Senate. Of course we were as yet too well established in the belief
that slavery in the United States is upheld by the Constitution only very remotely and indirectly, under local
or municipal law, to desire, even by questions, to draw on any debate. In reply to a question by the gentleman
from Harvard, he spoke of a Central Confederacy as altogether improbable,
and thought, if Georgia seceded, as the telegrams for the last fortnight
had indicated she would, Maryland would be sure to go." I think the commercial
and political interests of Maryland, "he remarked, in his calm and simple, but
distinct and watchful manner, manifesting, too, at the same time,
a natural command of dignified, antithetical sentences," would be
promoted, perhaps can be only preserved, by secession.

Her territory extends on both sides of a great inland water communication,
and is at the natural Atlantic outlet, by railway, of the Valley of
the West.

Baltimore in the Union is sure to be inferior to Philadelphia and
New York: Baltimore out of the Union is sure to become a great commercial
city.

In every way, whether we regard her own people or their usefulness to other States, I think the interests
of Maryland would be promoted by secession. "" But would not Maryland lose many more slaves,
as the border member of a foreign confederacy, than she does now in the Union? "The reply to this question
we looked for with the greatest interest, since no foreign nation, such as the North would be, in case of
the success of the attempted Confederacy, ever thinks of giving up fugitives, and since the
policy of the South upon this point, in case she should succeed,
would determine the possibility or impossibility of peace between
the two portions of the Continent.

Mr. Davis's reply was in the following words, uttered in a tone of equal shrewdness, calmness, and
decision:--" I think, for all Maryland would lose in that way she would be more than repaid
by reprisals.

While we are one nation and you steal our property, we have little
redress; but when we become two nations, we shall say, Two can play
at this game.

"We breathed more freely after so frank an utterance. The great importance of this reply, coming from the
even then proposed political chief of the Confederacy, as indicating the impossibility of peace,
even in case of the recognition of the South, so long as it should continue, as it has begun,
to make Slavery the chief corner-stone of the State, will be at once perceived." But, "the writer
ventured to inquire," what will become of the Federal District, since its inhabitants have
no'State right of secession'? "" Have you ever studied law? "he asked. The gentleman from Amherst confessed
our ignorance of any point covering the case."

There is a rule in law, "continued Mr. Davis," that, when property
is granted by one party to another for use for any specified purpose, and
ceases to be used for that purpose, it reverts by law to the donor.

Now the territory constituting at present the District of Columbia
was granted, as you well know, by Maryland to the United States for
use as the seat of the Federal capital. When it ceases to be used for
that purpose, it, with all its public fixtures, will revert by law
to Maryland.

But, "and his eye brightened to the hue of cold steel in a way the writer will never forget, as he
uttered, in a tone perfectly self-poised, undaunted, and slightly defiant, the words," that is
a point which may be settled by force rather than by reason. "This was January 1, 1861, only eleven
days after South Carolina had passed her Act of Secession, and shows that even then, notwithstanding
the professed desire of the South to depart in peace, the attack not only upon the national
principles of union, but upon the national property as well, was
projected.

The road, he says, was better, and the outward prospect a little enlivening; but it is not
easy to describe the feelings my mind was under in approaching a place which has so long occupied
my thoughtfulness to visit. The prospect is discouraging, but I must be content and sink down
to the spring of life, which can alone make known the objects of duty and qualify for their
fulfilment. In the midst of all my spiritual poverty a stream of gratitude flows in my heart
to the Father of mercies, that he has been pleased to preserve us in many dangers, and bring
us safe to this part of his heritage; and if it should be his will that I should have nothing
to do but to suffer for his name's sake, may he grant me patience to bear it.

Martha Savory's feelings on the same occasion were also those of deep gratitude for the preservation
experienced during their journey, united, she says, with an humbling sense of many omissions
and great unworthiness, yet of help having been mercifully administered in the time of need.--(Letter
of 2 mo. 10, 1826.)

Edward Brady was spending the winter at Congenies for the sake of his health, and his society
was a source of no little comfort to John Yeardley; who, however, still, frequently labored
under spiritual depression.

Before dinner, he writes under date of the 23rd of the Twelfth Month, we took a walk to M.S.'s
windmill, from whence we had a fair view of Congenies and the neighborhood, which is of a wild
description. On reflecting on the place and circumstances connected with it, my mind was filled
with various ideas, but none of them of an encouraging nature.

His discouragement was increased by ignorance of the language, and, with his accustomed diligence,
on the morrow after his arrival he commenced learning French. On the recurrence of his birth-day,
which was nearly coincident with the beginning of the year, he says:--

I am once more entered on a new year of my life, I fear without the last having been much improved;
and to form resolutions of amendment in my own strength can avail me nothing. May He who knows
my infirmities assist me to overcome them and to become more useful in his cause. My discouragement
still continues; I don't feel those refreshing seasons which I have often experienced in times
past; the pure life is often low in meeting, and I am not so watchful and diligent to improve
my time and talent as I ought to be. I often feel as one already laid by useless, and the language
of my heart is, "O that I were as in days past!"

Soon after their arrival at Congenies, Martha Savory met with a serious accident. Thinking
a ride would be beneficial to her health, when the rest of the party drove one afternoon to
Sommières, she accompanied them on horseback. She had not a proper saddle, and her horse being
eager to keep up with the carriage set off downhill at so rapid a rate as to throw her to the
ground. The cap of one knee was displaced by the fall, and, although she soon recovered so
as to be able to walk, the limb continued to be subject to weakness for some years.

As soon as M. S. was sufficiently recovered, she and her companions visited the Friends at
Congenies and the neighboring villages from house to house, and also assembled on one occasion
the heads of families, and on another the young people of the Society. In reviewing a part
of this service John Yeardley says:--

3 mo. 6.--It has been a deeply exercising time, but has tended much more to the relief of our
minds, at least as regards myself, than I had anticipated. From the discouraged state of mind
I passed through for the first few weeks at this place, I expected to leave it burdened and
distressed, but am thankful to acknowledge that holy help has been near to afford relief to
my poor tossed spirit, and I have cause to believe it is in divine wisdom that I am here.

On the 13th of the Third Month they took leave of their friends at Congenies to return to England,
being accompanied by Edward Brady, and during part of the journey by Louis Majolier. By the
way they had some religious intercourse with Protestant dissenters at a few places; but at
St. Etienne, where they had expected to remain a fortnight, they found the door nearly closed
to their entrance; a company of pious persons in this town were at that time so nearly united
with Friends as to bear their name.

These, says John Yeardley, in a letter, are now reduced to about twenty in number. They have
suffered and still suffer much persecution from the Roman Catholics. They are forbidden by
heavy fines to meet together, except in very small companies. We met them several times in
their small meetings to much comfort; there are a few among them who have stood firm through
the heat of trial, and these are precious individuals. The priests are exceedingly jealous.
On our arrival in the town we held our little meeting with, these pious people on First-day
morning; the priest came to the house of the woman Friend where we had been to demand who we
were and where we lodged, and said it was we who had caused them to err, and he would convince
us in their presence that we were not only in error ourselves, but had led them into error
also. But we saw nothing of him, and left the place in safety, which we considered a great
favor; for such has been their rage that they have dared to shoot at some missionaries who
have been in the neighborhood (Letter to Thomas Yeardley, 4 mo. 19.)

The rest of the journey through France was in general dreary, the external accommodation being
bad, and the consolation of spiritual intercourse very scanty. At Arras, however, they were
refreshed by the company of a Protestant minister, a liberal and worthy man, who had "to stand
alone in a large district of weak-handed Protestants among strong-headed Catholics."

Arriving at Calais, Martha Savory and Martha Towell, with Edward Brady, crossed over to England,
leaving John Yeardley to follow at a later period. On the 14th of the Fourth Month he writes:--

My dear companions left for England. I watched them from the pier until I could bear to stay
no longer, and then returned sorrowfully to my quarters, and soon repaired to the little retired
lodging we had engaged for me in the country, where I spent a few days in learning French,
&c. In taking a retrospect of our long journey I feel a large degree of peaceful satisfaction
in having been desirous to fulfil (though very imperfectly) a religious duty; and these feelings
of gratitude excited a wish that the remainder of my few days might be more faithfully devoted
to the service of my great Lord and Master.

The little lodging of which he speaks was "a retired chamber on the garden-wall;" and having
left it for a few days to go to Antwerp with the carriage and horses which they had used on
the journey, on his return it had already acquired, in his view, something of the character
of home.

The beautiful green branches, says he, modestly looking in at the window, give me a silent
welcome; and the little birds chirruping in the garden, which is my drawing-room and study.
I cannot but acknowledge how grateful I feel in being permitted to rest in so quiet a retreat,
shut up from many of those anxious cares which have perplexed the former part of my life.--(Diary,
4 mo. 27.)

The last few words of this memorandum may seem at first sight to refer to his temporary seclusion
from the world in his little hermitage at Calais; but there is little doubt that they have
a wider significance, and contain also an allusion to his anticipated union with Martha Savory.
The prospect of this union seems to have sprung up during the journey, and to have become matured
before they separated at Calais; and the effect of it was, amongst other things, to set him
free from the necessity of pursuing business any longer as a means of livelihood, and to ensure
to him a provision sufficient for his moderate wants.

On the 12th of the Fifth Month, John Yeardley left Calais for London. At the inn in Calais,
a little incident occurred, the relation of which may be useful to others.

A serious Frenchman, who was going on board the same packet, was struck with my not paying
for the music after dinner, and was much inclined to know my reason, believing my refusal was
from a religious motive. At a suitable opportunity he asked me, and confessed he had felt a
scruple of the same kind, and regretted he had not been faithful. This slight incident was
the means of making me acquainted with an honest and religious man, as I afterwards found him
to be.

How important it is to be faithful in very little things, not knowing what effect they may
have on others!

CHAPTER VII.

HIS MARRIAGE WITH MARTHA SAVORY.

1826-27.

During his stay in London, John Yeardley attended the Yearly Meeting, and the Annual Meetings
of the School, Anti-slavery, and other Societies, with which he was much gratified. Soon after
the termination of the Yearly Meeting, he went into Yorkshire to see his mother.

6 mo. 13.--I left London in the mail for Sheffield, and on the 14th slept at my dear brother
Thomas's at Ecclesfield, who took me on the 15th, to Barnsley. I was truly thankful to be favored
to see my precious mother once more. On the 19th, I attended the Monthly Meeting at Highflatts.
It is not easy to describe the various thoughts which rushed into my mind on seeing so many
Friends whom I had known and loved in former days. Then when Cyrus come-- our little boy-- our first
an'only one! why, when he come, I wuz jest so happy an'so grateful that
if I had n't been a man I guess I'd have hollered-- maybe cried-- with joy.
Wanted to call the little tyke Bill, but Bill would n't hear to nothin'but
Cyrus.

You see, he'd bought a cyclopeedy the winter we wuz all marr'ed an'had been readin'in it uv
a great foreign warrior named Cyrus that lived a long spell ago. "Land
uv Goshen, Bill!" sez I, "you don't reckon the baby'll ever be a
warrior?"

"Well, I don't know about that," sez Bill. "There's no tellin'.

At any rate, Cyrus Ketcham has an uncommon sound for a name; so Cyrus it must be, an'when he's
seven years old I'll gin him the finest Morgan colt in the deestrick!" So we called him Cyrus,
an'he grew up lovin'and bein'loved by everybody.

Well, along about two years-- or, say, eighteen months or so-- after
Cyrus come to us a little girl baby come to Bill an'Marthy, an'of
all the cunnin'sweet little things you ever seen that little girl
baby was the cunnin'est an'sweetest!

Looked jest like one of them foreign crockery figgers you buy in city stores-- all pink an'white,
with big brown eyes here, an'a teeny, weeney mouth there, an'a nose
an'ears, you'd have bet they wuz wax-- they wuz so small an'fragile.
Never darst hold her for fear I'd break her, an'it liked to skeered
me to death to see the way Marthy and Lizzie would kind uv toss her
round an'trot her-- so-- on their knees or pat her-- so-- on the back
when she wuz collicky like the wimmin folks sez all healthy babies
is afore they're three months old.

"You're goin'to have the namin'uv her," sez Bill to me. "Yes," sez Marthy; "we made it up atween
us long ago that you should have the namin'uv our baby like we had the namin'uv yourn." Then,
kind uv hectorin'like-- for I was always a powerful tease-- I sez:
"How would Cleopatry do for a name? or Venis?

I have been readin'the cyclopeedy myself, I'd have you know!" An'then I laffed one on them provokin'laffs
uv mine-- oh, I tell ye, I was the worst feller for hectorin'folks you ever seen! But I meant it all
in fun, for when I suspicioned they did n't like my funnin', I sez: "Bill," sez I, "an'Marthy,
there's only one name I'd love above all the rest to call your little
lambkin, an'that's the dearest name on earth to me-- the name uv Lizzie,
my wife!"

That jest suited'em to a T, an'always after that she wuz called leetle
Lizzie, an'it sot on her, that name did, like it was made for her,
an'she for it.

We made it up then-- perhaps more in fun than anything else-- that when the children growed up,
Cyrus an'leetle Lizzie, they should get marr'd together, an'have
both the farms an'be happy, an'be a blessin'to us all in our old age.

We made it up in fun, perhaps, but down in our hearts it wuz our prayer jest the same, and God
heard the prayer an'granted it to be so.

They played together, they lived together; together they tended deestrick
school an'went huckleberryin'; there wuz huskin's an'spellin'bees
an'choir meetin's an'skatin'an'slidin'down-hill-- oh, the happy times
uv youth! an'all those times our boy Cyrus an'their leetle Lizzie
went lovin'ly together!

What made me start so-- what made me ask of Bill one time: "Are we a-gettin'old, Bill?" that wuz
the Thanksgivin'night when, as we set round the fire in Bill's front-room, Cyrus come to
us, holdin'leetle Lizzie by the hand, an'they asked us could they get marr'd come next Thanksgivin'time?
Why, it seemed only yesterday that they wuz chicks together! God! how swift the years go by when
they are happy years!

"Reuben," sez Bill to me, "le's go down'cellar and draw a pitcher
uv cider!" You see that, bein'men, it wuz n't for us to make a show
uv ourselves.

Marty an'Lizzie just hugged each other an'laughed an'cried-- they wuz so glad! Then they hugged Cyrus
an'leetle Lizzie; and talk and laff? Well, it did beat all how them women folks did talk and
laugh, all at one time! Cyrus laffed, too; an'then he said he reckoned he'd go out an'throw some
fodder in to the steers, and Bill an'I-- well, we went down-cellar
to draw that pitcher uv cider.

It ain't for me to tell now uv the meller sweetness uv their courtin'time;
I could n't do it if I tried. Oh, how we loved'em both! Yet, once in
the early summer-time, our boy Cyrus he come to me an'said: "Father,
I want you to let me go away for a spell." "Cyrus, my boy! Go away?"
"Yes, father; President Linkern has called for soldiers; father,
you have always taught me to obey the voice of Duty.

That voice summons me now." "God in heaven," I thought, "you have given us this child only to
take him from us!" But then came the second thought: "Steady, Reuben! You are a man; be a man!
Steady, Reuben; be a man!" "Yer mother," sez I, "yer mother-- it will break her heart!" "She leaves it
all to you, father." "But-- the other-- the other, Cyrus-- leetle Lizzie-- ye know!" "She is
content," sez he.

A storm swep'through me like a cyclone.

It wuz all Bill's fault; that warrior-name had done it all-- the cyclopeedy with its lies had
pizened Bill's mind to put this trouble on me an'mine! No, no, a thousand times no! These wuz
coward feelin's an'they misbecome me; the ache herein this heart uv mine had no business there.
The better part uv me called to me an'said: "Pull yourself together, Reuben Ketcham, and be
a man!"

Well, after he went away, leetle Lizzie wuz more to us'n ever before; wuz at our house all the time;
called Lizzie "mother"; wuz contented, in her woman's way, willin'to do her part, waitin'an'watchin'an'prayin'for
him to come back.

They sent him boxes of good things every fortnight, mother an'leetle
Lizzie did; there wuz n't a minute uv the day that they wuz n't talkin'or
thinkin'uv him.

Well-- ye-- see-- I must tell it my own way-- he got killed. In the very first battle Cyrus got
killed.

The rest uv the soldiers turnt to retreat, because there wuz too
many for'em on the other side.

But Cyrus stood right up; he wuz the warrior Bill allowed he wuz goin'to be; our boy wuz n't the
kind to run.

They tell me there wuz bullet holes here, an'here, an'here-- all
over his breast.

We always knew our boy wuz a hero!

Ye can thank God ye wuz n't at the'jinin'farms when the news come
that he'd got killed.

       

The neighbors, they were there, of course, to kind uv hold us up
an'comfort us.

Bill an'I sot all day in the woodshed, holdin'hands an'lookin'away from each other, so; never said a word;
jest sot there, sympathizin'an'holdin'hands.

If we'd been women, Bill an'I would uv cried an'beat our forrids an'hung round each other's neck,
like the womenfolks done. Bein'we wuz men, we jest set there in the woodshed, away from all
the rest, holdin'hands an'sympathizin'.

From that time on, leetle Lizzie wuz our daughter-- our very daughter,
all that wuz left to us uv our boy. She never shed a tear; crep'like
a shadder'round the house an'up the front walk an'through the garden.
Her heart wuz broke.

You could see it in the leetle lambkin's eyes an'hear it in her voice. Wanted to tell her sometimes
when she kissed me and called me "father"-- wanted to tell her, "Leetle
Lizzie, let me help ye bear yer load.

Speak out the sorrer that's in yer broken heart; speak it out, leetle one, an'let me help yer bear
yer load!" But it is n't for a man to have them feelin's-- leastwise, it is n't for him to tell
uv'em. So I held my peace and made no sign. She jest drooped, an'pined, an'died. One mornin'in the
spring she wuz standin'in the garden, an'all at oncet she threw her arms up, so, an'fell upon her
face, an'when they got to her all thet wuz left to us uv leetle Lizzie
wuz her lifeless leetle body.

I can't tell of what happened next-- uv the funeral an'all that. I said this wuz in the spring,
an'so it wuz all around us; but it wuz cold and winter here. One day mother sez to me: "Reuben,"
sez she, softlike, "Marthy an'I is goin'to the buryin'ground for a spell. Don't you reckon it would
be a good time for you to step over an'see Bill while we're gone?" "Mebbe so, mother," sez I.
It wuz a pretty day. Cuttin'across lots, I thought to myself what I'd say
to Bill to kind uv comfort him.

I made it up that I'd speak about the time when we wuz boys together; uv how we used to slide
down the meetin'-house hill, an'go huckleberryin'; uv how I jumped
into the pond one day an'saved him from bein'drownded; uv the spellin'school,
the huskin'bees, the choir meetin's, the sparkin'times; of the swimmin'hole,
the crow's nest in the pine-tree, the woodchuck's hole in the old
pasture lot; uv the sunny summer days an'the snug winter nights when
we wuz boys, an'happy!

And then---- No, no! I could n't go on like that! I'd break down. A man can't be a man more'n jest
so far! Why did mother send me over to see Bill? I'd better stayed to home! I felt myself chokin'up;
if I had n't took a chew uv terbacker, I'd'ave been cryin', in a minute! The nearer I got to Bill's,
the worst I hated to go in. Standin'on the stoop, I could hear the tall clock tickin'solemnly inside--
"tick-tock, tick-tock," jest as plain as if I wuz settin'aside uv it. The door wuz shet, yet
I knew jest what Bill wuz doin'; he was settin'in the old red easy-chair,
lookin'down at the floor-- like this.

Strange, ain't it, how sometimes when you love folks you know jest what they're doin', without
knowin'anything about it!

There warn't no use knockin', but I knocked three times; so. Did n't say a word; only jest knocked
three times-- that a-way. Did n't hear no answer-- nothin'but the tickin'uv the tall clock;
an'yet I knew that Bill heered me an'that down in his heart he was sayin'to me to come in. He never
said a word, yet I knowed all the time Bill wuz sayin'for me to come in. I opened the door, keerful-like,
an'slipped in.

Did n't say nothin'; jest opened the door, softly-like, an'slipped in. There set Bill jist as I knowed
he was settin', lonesome-like, sad-like; his head hangin'down; he never looked up at me; never said
a word-- knowed I wuz there all the time, but never said a word an'never
made a sign.

How changed Bill wuz-- oh, Bill, how changed ye wuz!

There wuz furrers in yer face an'yer hair wuz white-- as white as-- as white as mine! Looked
small about the body, thin an'hump-shouldered. Jest two ol'men, that's what we wuz; an'we
had been boys together! Well, I stood there a spell, kind uv hesitatin'like, neither uv us sayin'anything,
until bimeby Bill he sort of made a sign for me to set down. Did n't speak, did n't lift his eyes
from the floor; only made a sign, like this, in a weak, tremblin'way-- that wuz all. An'I set down, and
there we both set, neither uv us sayin'a word, but both settin'there, lovin'each other an'sympathize'as
hard as we could, for that is the way with men.

Bimeby, like we'd kind uv made it up aforehand, we hitched up closer,
for when folks is in sorrer an'trouble they like to be closte together.

But
not a word all the time, an'hitchin'closer an'closer together, why, bimeby we set side by side. So
we set a spell longer, lovin'an'sympathizin', as men-folks do; thinkin'uv
the old times, uv our boyhood; thinkin'uv the happiness uv the past
an'uv all the hopes them two children had brought us!

The tall clock ticked, an'that wuz all the sound there wuz, excep'when Bill gin a sigh an'I gin
a sigh, too-- to lighten the load, ye know. Not a word come from
either of us:'t wuz all we could do to set there, lovin'each other
an'sympathizin'!

    All at oncet-- for we could n't stand it
    no longer-- all at oncet we turnt our
        faces t'other way an'reached
    out, so, an'groped with our hands, this
    way, till we found an'held each other
       fast in a clasp uv tender meanin'. Then-- God forgive me if I done
a wrong-- then I wisht I wuz a woman!

For, bein'a woman, I could have riz up, an', standin'so, I could have cried: "Come, Bill! come, let
me hold you in these arms; come, let us weep together, an'let this broken heart uv mine speak
through these tremblin'lips to that broken heart uv yourn, Bill, tellin'ye how much I love ye
an'sympathize with ye!" But-- no! I wuz not a woman!

I wuz a man! an', bein'a man, I must let my heart break; I must hold my peace, an'I must make
no sign. THE ANGEL AND THE FLOWERS An angel once asked the Father if he might leave heaven for a day
and go down to earth to visit the flowers and birds and little children, for you must know
that no other earthly things so much please the angels of heaven
as do the flowers, the birds, and the little children.

"Yes," said the Father, "you may go down to earth, but be sure to stay no longer than a day; and
when you come back to heaven bring me the loveliest flower you can
find, that I may transplant it to my garden and love it for its beauty
and its fragrance.

Cherish
it tenderly, that no harm may befall it."

Then the angel went down to the earth, and he came to a beautiful rose-bush upon which bloomed a
rose lovelier and more fragrant than any of her kind. "Heyday, sweet rose," said the angel;
"how proudly you hold up your fair head for the winds to kiss." "Ay, that I do," replied the rose,
blushing, albeit she enjoyed the flattery. "But I do not care for these idle zephyrs nor for the
wanton sunbeams that dance among my leaves all the day long.

To-night a cavalier will come hither and tear me from this awkward bush with all its thorns,
and kiss me with impassioned lips, and bear me to his lady, who, too, will kiss me and wear me
on her bosom, next her heart. That, O angel, is the glory of the rose-- to be a bearer of kisses
from lover to lover, and to hear the whispered vows of the cavalier and his lady, to feel the beating
of a gentle heart, and to wither on the white bosom of a wooed maiden." Then the angel came to a lily
that arose fair and majestic from its waxen leaves and bowed gracefully to each passing breeze.
"Why are you so pale and sad, dear lily?" asked the angel.

"My love is the north wind," said the lily, "and I look for him and mourn
because he does not come.

And when he does come, and I would smile under his caresses, he is cold and harsh and cruel
to me, and I wither and die for a season, and when I am wooed back to life again by the smiles
and tears of heaven, which are the sunlight and the dew, lo! he is
gone."

The angel smiled sadly to hear of the trusting, virgin fidelity of the lily. "Tell me," asked the lily,
"will the north wind come to-day?" "No," said the angel, "nor for many days yet, since it is early
summer now." But the lonely lily did not believe the angel's words. Still looking for her cruel
lover, she held her pale face aloft and questioned each zephyr that
hurried by. And the angel went his way.

And the
angel came next to a daisy that thrived in a meadow where the cattle were grazing and the lambs
were frisking.

"Nay, do not pluck me, sir," cried the daisy, merrily; "I would not
exchange my home in this smiling pasture for a place upon the princess'bosom."

"You seem very blithesome, little daisy," quoth the angel. "So I am,
and why should I not be?" rejoined the daisy. "The dews bathe me with their
kisses, and the stars wink merrily at me all the night through, and
during the day the bees come and sing their songs to me, and the
little lambs frisk about me, and the big cattle caress me gently with
their rough tongues, and all seem to say'Bloom on, little daisy, for
we love you.'So we frolic here on the meadow all the time-- the lambs,
the bees, the cattle, the stars, and I-- and we are very, very happy."

Next the angel came to a camellia which was most beautiful to look
upon.

But the camellia made no reply to the angel's salutation, for the camellia, having no fragrance,
is dumb-- for flowers, you must know, speak by means of their scented breath. The camellia,
therefore, could say no word to the angel, so the angel walked on in silent sadness. "Look
at me, good angel," cried the honeysuckle; "see how adventuresome
I am.

At the top of this trellis dwells a ladybird, and in her cozy nest are three daughters, the youngest
of whom I go to woo.

I carry sweetmeats with me to tempt the pretty dear; do you think she
will love me?"

The angel laughed at the honeysuckle's quaint conceit, but made no
reply, for yonder he saw a purple aster he fain would question.

"Are you then so busy," asked the angel, "that you turn your head away from every other thing and
look always into the sky?" "Do not interrupt me," murmured the purple aster. "I love the great
luminous sun, and whither he rolls in the blazing heavens I turn my face in awe and veneration.
I would be the bride of the sun, but he only smiles down upon my devotion and beauty!" So the
angel wandered among the flowers all the day long and talked with them. And toward evening he
came to a little grave which was freshly made. "Do not tread upon
us," said the violets.

"Let
us cluster here over this sacred mound and sing our lullabies." "To whom do you sing, little flowers?"
asked the angel.

"We sing to the child that lies sleeping beneath us," replied the
violets.

"All through the seasons, even under the snows of winter, we nestle close to this mound and sing
to the sleeping child. None but he hears us, and his soul is lulled by our gentle music." "But
do you not often long for other occupation, for loftier service?" inquired the angel. "Nay,"
said the violets, "we are content, for we love to sing to the little,
sleeping child."

The angel was touched by the sweet humility of these modest flowers.

He wept, and his tears fell upon the grave, and the flowers drank
up the angel tears and sang more sweetly than before, but so softly
that only the sleeping child heard them.

And when the angel flew back to heaven, he cherished a violet in
his bosom.

THE CHILD'S LETTER Everybody was afraid of the old governor because he was so cross and surly.
And one morning he was crosser and surlier than ever, because he had been troubled for several
days with a matter which he had already decided, but which many people
wished to have reversed.

A man, found guilty of a crime, had been imprisoned, and there were those who, convinced of his
penitence and knowing that his family needed his support, earnestly
sought his pardon.

To all these solicitations the old governor replied "no," and, having made up his mind, the
old governor had no patience with those who persisted in their intercessions.

       So the old governor was in high dudgeon one morning, and when he came
to his office he said to his secretary: "Admit no one to see me; I
am weary of these constant and senseless importunities."

Now, the secretary had a discreet regard for the old governor's feelings, and it was seldom that
his presence of mind so far deserted him as to admit of his suffering the old governor's wishes to be disregarded.
He bolted the door and sat himself down at his modest desk and simulated intense enthusiasm
in his work. His simulation was more intense than usual, for never
before had the secretary seen the old governor in such a harsh mood.
"Has the mail come-- where are the papers and the letters?" demanded
the old governor, in a gruff voice.

"Here they are, sir," said the secretary, as he put the bundle on the old governor's table. "These
are addressed to you privately; the business letters are on my desk. Would you like to see them now?"
"No, not now," growled the old governor; "I will read the papers
and my private correspondence first."

But the old governor found cause for uneasiness in this employment.

The papers
discussed the affair of the imprisoned man, and these private letters came from certain of the old
governor's friends, who, strangely enough, exhibited an interest in the self-same prisoner's affair.
The old governor was highly disgusted. "They should mind their own
business," muttered the old governor.

"The papers are very officious, and these other people are simply impertinent. My mind is made up--
nothing shall change me!"

Then the old governor turned to his private secretary and bade him
bring the business letters, and presently the private secretary could
hear the old governor growling and fumbling over the pile of correspondence.

He knew why the old governor was so excited; many of these letters were petitions from the people touching
the affair of the imprisoned man. Oh, how they angered the old governor! "Humph!" said the old
governor at last, "I'm glad I'm done with them.

There are no more, I suppose." When the secretary made no reply the old governor was surprised. He
wheeled in his chair and searchingly regarded the secretary over
his spectacles.

He saw that the secretary was strangely embarrassed. "You have not shown me all," said the old
governor, sternly.

"What is it you have kept back?"

Then the secretary said: "I had thought not to show it to you. It
is nothing but a little child's letter-- I thought I should not bother
you with it." The old governor was interested. A child's letter to
him-- what could it be about? Such a thing had never happened to
him before.

"A child's
letter; let me see it," said the old governor, and, although his
voice was harsh, somewhat of a tender light came into his eyes.

"'T is nothing but a scrawl," explained the secretary,
"and it comes from the prisoner's child-- Monckton's little girl--
Monckton, the forger, you know.

Of course there's nothing
to it-- a mere scrawl; for the child is only four years old. But the
gentleman who sends it says the child brought it to him and asked
him to send it to the governor, and then, perhaps, the governor would
send her papa home."

The old governor took the letter, and he scanned it
curiously.

What a wonderful letter it was, and who but a little child could
have written it!

Such strange hieroglyphics
and such crooked lines-- oh! it was a wonderful letter, as you can
imagine. But the old governor saw something more than the strange
hieroglyphics and crooked lines and rude pencillings. He could see in
and between the lines of the little child's letter a sweetness and a
pathos he had never seen before, and on the crumpled sheet he found a love
like the love his bereaved heart had vainly yearned for, oh! so many
years. He saw, or seemed to see, a little head bending over the crumpled
page, a dimpled hand toiling at its rude labor of love, and an earnest
little face smiling at the thought that this labor would not be in
vain. And how wearied the little hand grew and how sleepy the little
head became, but the loyal little heart throbbed on and on with patient
joy, and neither hand nor head rested till the task was done.

Sweet innocence of childhood! Who would
molest thee-- who bring thee one shadow of sorrow? Who would not rather
brave all dangers, endure all fatigues, and bear all burdens to shield thee
from the worldly ills thou dream'st not of! So thought the old governor,
as he looked upon the crumpled page and saw and heard the pleadings
of the child's letter; for you must know that from the crumpled page there
stole a thousand gentle voices that murmured in his ears so sweetly
that his heart seemed full of tears.

And the old governor thought
of his own little one-- God rest her innocent soul. And it seemed to him
as if he could hear her dear baby voice joining with this other's
in trustful pleading.

The secretary was amazed when the old governor said to him: "Give
me a pardon blank." But what most amazed the secretary was the tremulous
tenderness in the old governor's voice and the mistiness behind the
old governor's spectacles as he folded the crumpled page reverently
and put it carefully in the breast pocket of his greatcoat.

"Humph,"
thought the secretary, "the old governor has a kinder heart than any
of us suspected."

Then, when the prisoner was pardoned
and came from his cell, people grasped him by the hand and said:
"Our eloquence and perseverance saved you. The old governor could
not withstand the pressure we brought to bear on him!"

(Diary) 6 mo. 18.--Were at the Monthly Meeting at Highflatts, where we laid our concern before
our friends to revisit some parts of Germany and Switzerland, and to visit some of the descendants
of the Waldenses in the Protestant valleys of Piedmont; and, on our way home, our friends and
some other serious persons in the Islands of Guernsey and Jersey. Our dear friends were favored
to enter most fully and feelingly into our views, and under a precious solemnity, a general
sentiment of unity and concurrence spread through the meeting, which constrained them, (as
the certificate expresses it) to leave us at liberty, accompanied with warm desires for our
preservation. Hearing the certificate read brought the concern, if possible, more weightily
than ever upon me, and a secret prayer was raised in my heart that we might be enabled to go
through the prospect before us to the honor of Him who has called us into his work.

They attended the Quarterly Meeting in the latter part of this month, and returned by way of
Ackworth, where, says John Yeardley,

We had a comfortable parting with dear Robert and Hannah Whitaker, in their own room. E.W.
has passed with us through the deeps, and has indeed been a true spiritual helper to us under
our weighty exercises of mind.

On the 8th of the Seventh Month they set out, and on the 17th attended the Meeting of Ministers
and Elders in London.

The Morning Meeting was a precious and refreshing time to our poor tried minds. There was a
very full expression of near sympathy and entire unity with us in our intended religious service.
It is a strength and encouragement not only to have the concurrence of our friends, but also
to know that we have a place in their prayers for our preservation and support in every trying
dispensation.

On the eve of their departure from London, a circumstance occurred of a very disagreeable character.
The shop of their brother, A.B. Savory, in Cornhill, was broken open; many valuable articles
were taken, and their travelling trunks, which had been left there, were ransacked. Although
their loss was trifling, the annoyance of such a contretemps may easily be conceived. J.Y. says:--

It is far from pleasant thus to be plundered of any part of our property; but I consider it
as much the duty of a Christian to bear with becoming fortitude the cross-occurrences of common
life as to be exercised in religious service.

They left London on the 22nd, for Rotterdam. On their arrival, a disastrous occurrence happened
which gave a shock to their feelings. The manner in which J.Y. mentions the event evinces his
tenderness of mind in commencing a long journey, in which his vocation was to be to sympathise
with the poor and afflicted.

Since we landed safely on shore a circumstance has occurred which has brought a gloom over
us. One of our shipmen being busy about the sails, part of a beam fell from the top-mast and
struck him on the head. He never spoke more, but died instantly. He has left a widow and two
children, not only to weep for him, but also to feel bitterly his loss in a pecuniary way.
We intend to recommend their situation to some of our benevolent friends in London. My heart
is much affected in having to commence my journal on a foreign shore by recording such an afflicting
event. And, as it regards ourselves, how much we have which calls for thankfulness that we
have so mercifully escaped.

From Rotterdam they directed their course to Pyrmont, passing through Gouda, Utrecht, Arnheim,
and Münster; at the last place they were laid by from the heat and weariness. They reached
Friedenthal on the 4th of the Eighth Month, and John Yeardley makes the following reflections
on re-entering his German home:--

As I find myself again in this country, many thoughts of former days spring up in my mind.
Since I was last here I have passed through much; nevertheless the Lord has guided my steps,
and I have cause to give Him thanks.

They visited Minden and the little meetings around, bestowing much labor on them; but at Pyrmont,
to suffer, rather than to do, was their allotted portion.

It sometimes seems to me, writes J.Y., that we have in this place little to do and much to
suffer. I am often cast down, and have to sit in silence and darkness. This state of mind is
an exercise of faith and patience, through which much may be gained if it is turned to right
account.

Of the Two Months' Meeting, he says:

On the whole a favorable time. But I am not without my fears that the little Society in this
place will lose ground, in a religious sense, if more faithfulness is not manifested in little
things.

Soon after their arrival in Germany they turned their steps towards the north-west corner of
that country, and the borders of Holland. The object of this journey was to visit some places
on the shores of the North Sea, near Friesland, where the inundations of 1825 had caused great
desolation, and where a new colony had been formed by the government from among the ruined
families. This little journey was so emphatically, an act of faith, and the course of it lay
so much through a part of Europe seldom visited by travellers, that we shall transcribe the
diary of it without much curtailment. 

And the Jews of to-day in attributing to themselves that quality would have the ground not
only of intuition but of history. Nevertheless that election is, even by Jewish orthodoxy,
conceived as designed solely for world-service, for that spiritual mission for which Israel when
fashioned was exiled and scattered like wind-borne seeds, and of the consummation of which his
ultimate repatriation and glory will be but the symbol. It is with Alenu that every service
ends-- the prayer for the coming of the Kingdom of God, "when Thou wilt remove the abominations
from the earth, and the idols will be utterly cut off, when the world will be perfected under
the Kingdom of the Almighty and all the children of flesh will call upon Thy name, when Thou
wilt turn unto Thyself all the wicked of the earth.... In that day the Lord shall be One and
His name One." Israel disappears altogether in this diurnal aspiration.

IV Israel disappears, too, in whole books of the Old Testament.

What has the problem of Job, the wisdom of Proverbs, or the pessimism of Ecclesiastes to do with the
Jew specifically? The Psalter would scarcely have had so universal
an appeal had it been essentially rooted in a race.

In the magnificent cosmic poem of Psalm civ-- half Whitman, half St. Francis-- not only his fellow-man
but all creation comes under the benediction of the Hebrew poet's
mood.

Even in a more primitive Hebrew poet the same cosmic universalism reveals itself. That the myth of the
tribalism of the Jewish God should persist in face of such passages can only be explained by the
fact that He shares in the unpopularity of His people.

Mr. Wells, for example, in his finely felt but intellectually incoherent book, "God the Invisible
King," dismisses Him as a malignant and partisan Deity, jealous and pettily stringent. At
most one is entitled to say with Mr. Israel Abrahams in his profound little book on "Judaism"
that "God, in the early literature a tribal, non-moral Deity, was in
the later literature a righteous ruler, who, with Amos and Hosea,
loved and demanded righteousness in man," and that there was an expansion
from a national to a universal Ruler.

But if "by early literature" anybody understand simply Genesis, if he imagines that the evolutionary
movement in Judaism proceeds regularly from Abraham to Isaiah, he
is grossly in error. No doubt all early gods are tribal, all early religions
connected with the hearth and ancestor worship, but the God of Isaiah is
already in Genesis, and the tribal God has to be exhumed from practically
all parts of the Bible. I was ready to conclude we were altogether
wrong and out of the way of our duty; but forward we must now go to see the end of this exercising
journey. The country about Varel and Jever is remarkably fertile in pasture. The cows handsome,
rolling in abundance of grass, and pretty much the whole country had the appearance of ease
and plenty; in Varel we saw the poor-house, a building capable of containing 400 persons, and
only four individuals were there. The inhabitants live in simplicity, but also in the general
ignorance and indifference as to religion. I was exceedingly low in mind on the way, but felt
once more that we were in our right place, and my precious M. Y. encouraged me by saying we
should not go there in vain. On opening the Bible, I was comforted in turning to Psalm lxxviii.
12-14.

After having thus travelled some days, as it were in the dark, we arrived at Friedrichen Siel,
near Carolinen Siel, in which neighborhood, on the border of the North Sea, lie Friedrichgroden,
New Augustengroden, and New Friedrichgroden. It is a tract of land gained from the sea of about
ten or twelve hundred acres, banked round in three divisions, and made arable, on which are
built about twenty farmhouses, which form almost a new world. This land is the property of
the government; a small sum is paid on entering, and a yearly ground-rent, and then it is the
property of the purchaser for ever.

As soon as we stepped on the banks of one of these grodens, and I set my eye on one of these
retired abodes, I felt no longer at a loss where we should go or what we should do. It opened
suddenly on my mind as clear as the sun at noon-day, that we must remain here a day or two
and visit these new settlers in their dwellings. They are laid in the shape of a broad, short ribbon,
pressed between the mantle and the shell, and, passing out, cover the outside of the shell,
over which they are rolled up, with a kind of glutinous envelope,-- for the eggs are held together
by a soft glutinous substance.

Thus surrounded, the shell, by its natural movements along the beach, soon collects the sand
upon it, the particles of which in contact with the glutinous substance of the eggs quickly
forms a cement that binds the whole together in a kind of paste. When consolidated, it drops
off from the shell, having taken the mould of its form, as it were, and retaining the curve which
distinguishes the outline of the Natica.

Although these saucers look perfectly round, it will be found that the edges are not soldered
together, but are simply lapped one over the other. Every one of the thousand little spheres
crowded into such a circle of sand contains an egg. If we follow the development of these eggs,
we shall presently find that each one divides into two halves, these again dividing to make four
portions, then the four breaking up into eight, and so on, till we may have the yolks divided into
no less than sixteen distinct parts. Thus far this process of segmentation is similar to that of
the egg in other animals; but, as we shall see hereafter, it seems usually to result only in a change
in the quality of its substance, for the portions coalesce again to form one mass, from which
a new individual is finally sketched out, at first as a simple embryo, and gradually undergoing
all the changes peculiar to its kind, till a new-born animal escapes from the egg. But in
the case of the Natica this regular segmentation changes its character, and at a certain period,
in a more or less advanced stage of the segmentation, according to the species, each portion
of the yolk assumes an individuality of its own, and, instead of uniting again with the rest,
begins to subdivide for itself. In our Natica heros, for instance, the common large gray Sea-Snail
of our coast, this change takes place when the yolk has subdivided into eight parts. At that
time each portion begins a life of its own, not reuniting with its seven twin portions; so that
in the end, instead of a single embryo growing out of this yolk, we have eight embryos arising
from a single yolk, each one of which undergoes a series of developments similar in all respects
to that by which a single embryo is formed from each egg in other animals. We have other Naticas
in which the normal number is twelve, others again in which no less than sixteen individuals
arise from one yolk. But this process of segmentation, though in these animals it leads to such
a multiplication of individuals, is exactly the same as that discovered by K. E. von Baer in the egg of
the Frog, and described and figured by Professor Bischof in the egg of the Rabbit, the Dog,
the Guinea-Pig, and the Deer, while other embryologists have traced
the same process in Birds, Reptiles, and Fishes, as well as in a variety
of Articulates, Mollusks, and Radiates.

Multiplication by division occurs also normally in adult animals that have completed their growth.
This is especially frequent among Worms; and strange to say, there are species in this Class which
never lay eggs before they have already multiplied themselves by
self-division.

Another mode of increase is that by budding, as in the Corals and many other Radiates. The
most common instance of budding we do not, however, generally associate with this mode of multiplication
in the Animal Kingdom, because we are so little accustomed to compare
and generalize upon phenomena that we do not see to be directly connected
with one another.

I allude here to the budding of trees, which year after year enlarge by the addition of new individuals
arising from buds. I trust that the usual acceptation of the word individual, used in science
simply to designate singleness of existence, will not obscure a correct appreciation of the true
relation of buds to their parents and to the beings arising from them. These buds have the same
organic significance, whether they drop from the parent stock to become distinct individuals
in the common acceptation of the term, or remain connected with the parent stock, as in Corals
and in trees, thus forming growing communities of combined individuals. Nor will it matter much
in connection with the subject under discussion, whether these buds start from the surface of an
animal or sprout in its interior, to be cast off in due time. Neither is the inequality of
buds, varying more or less among themselves, any sound reason for
overlooking their essential identity of structure.

We have seen instances of this among Acalephs, and it is still more apparent among trees which
produce simultaneously leaf and flower-buds, and even separate male and female flower-buds,
as is the case with our Hazels, Oaks, etc. It is not, however, my
purpose here to describe the various modes of reproduction and multiplication
among animals and plants, nor to discuss the merits of the different
opinions respecting their numeric increase, according to which some
persons hold that all types originated from a few primitive individuals,
while others believe that the very numbers now in existence are part
of the primitive plan, and essential to the harmonious relations existing
between the animal and vegetable world.

I would only attempt to show that in the plan of Creation the maintenance of types has been secured
through a variety of means, but under such limitations, that, within a narrow range of individual
differences, all representatives of one kind of animals agree with one another, whether derived from
eggs, or produced by natural division, or by budding; and that the constancy of these normal processes
of reproduction, as well as the uniformity of their results, precludes the idea that the specific
differences among animals have been produced by the very means that secure their permanence of type.
The statement itself implies a contradiction, for it tells us that the same influences prevent and
produce change in the condition of the Animal Kingdom. Facts are all
against it; there is not a fact known to science by which any single being,
in the natural process of reproduction and multiplication, has diverged
from the course natural to its kind, or in which a single kind has
been transformed into any other. But this once established, and setting
aside the idea that Embryology is to explain to us the origin as
well as the maintenance of life, it yet has most important lessons
for us, and the field it covers is constantly enlarging as the study
is pursued.

The first and most important result of the science of Embryology was one for which the scientific
world was wholly unprepared. Down to our own century, nothing could have been farther from the conception
of anatomists and physiologists than the fact now generally admitted, that all animals, without
exception, arise from eggs. Though Linnaeus had already expressed this great truth in the sentence
so often quoted,-- "Omne vivum ex ovo,"-- yet he was not himself aware of the significance of his
own statement, for the existence of the Mammalian egg was not then dreamed of. Since then the
discoveries of von Baer and others have shown not only that the egg is common
to all living beings without exception, from the lowest Radiate to
the highest Vertebrate, but that its structure is at first identical
in all, composed of the same primitive elements and undergoing exactly
the same process of growth up to the time when it assumes the special
character peculiar to its kind.

This is unquestionably one of the most comprehensive generalizations of modern times. In common parlance,
we understand by an egg something of the nature of a hen's egg, a mass of yolk surrounded with
white and inclosed in a shell. But to the naturalist, the envelopes of the egg, which vary greatly
in different animals, are mere accessories, while the true egg, or, as it is called, the ovarian
egg, with which the life of every living being begins, is a minute sphere, uniform in appearance
throughout the Animal Kingdom, though its intimate structure is hardly
to be reached even with the highest powers of the microscope.

Some account of the earlier stages of growth in the egg may not be uninteresting to my readers.
I will take the egg of the Turtle as an illustration, since that has been the subject of my
own especial study; but, as I do not intend to carry my remarks beyond the period during which
the history of all vertebrate eggs is the same, they may be considered of more general application.
It is well known that all organic structures, whether animal or vegetable, are composed of cells. These
cells consist of an outside bag inclosing an inner sac, and within
that sac there is a dot.

The outer bag is filled with semi-transparent fluid, the inner one with a perfectly transparent
fluid, while the dot is dark and distinct. In the language of our science, the outer envelope is
called the Ectoblast, the inner sac the Mesoblast, and the dot the
Entoblast. Although they are peculiarly modified to suit the different
organs, these cells never lose this peculiar structure; it may be
traced even in the long drawn-out cells of the flesh, which are like mere
threads, but yet have their outer and inner sac and their dot,--
at least while forming.

In the Turtle the ovary is made up of such cells, spherical at first, but becoming hexagonal under
pressure, when they are more closely packed together. Between these ovarian cells the egg originates,
and is at first a mere granule, so minute, that, when placed under a very high magnifying power,
it is but just visible.

This
is the incipient egg, and at this stage it differs from the surrounding cells only in being somewhat
darker, like a drop of oil, and opaque, instead of transparent and clear like the surrounding
cells. Under the microscope it is found to be composed of two substances only: namely, oil and albumen.
It increases gradually, and when it has reached a size at which it
requires to be magnified one thousand times in order to be distinctly
visible, the outside assumes the aspect of a membrane thicker than
the interior and forming a coating around it.

This is owing not to an addition from outside, but to a change in the consistency of the substance
at the surface, which becomes more closely united, more compact, than the loose mass in the centre.
Presently we perceive a bright, luminous, transparent spot on the
upper side of the egg, near the wall or outer membrane. This is produced
by a concentration of the albumen, which now separates from the oil and
collects at the upper side of the egg, forming this light spot, called
by naturalists the Purkinjean vesicle, after its discoverer, Purkinje.

When this albuminous spot becomes somewhat larger, there arises a little
dot in the centre,-- the germinal dot, as it is called. And now we
have a perfect cell-structure, differing from an ordinary cell only
in having the inner sac, inclosing the dot, on the side, instead of
in the centre.

The outer membrane corresponds to the Ectoblast, or outer cell sac, the Purkinjean vesicle to the
Mesoblast, or inner cell sac, while the dot in the centre answers to the Entoblast. When the
Purkinjean vesicle has completed its growth, it bursts and disappears; but the mass contained in
it remains in the same region, and retains the same character, though no longer inclosed as before.
At a later stage of the investigation, we see why the Purkinjean vesicle, or inner sac of the egg, is placed
on the side, instead of being at the centre, as in the cell. It arises on that side along which
the axis of the little Turtle is to lie,-- the opposite side being that corresponding to the
lower part of the body.

Thus the lighter, more delicate part of the substance of the egg is collected where the upper cavity
of the animal, inclosing the nervous system and brain, is to be, while the heavy oily part
remains beneath, where the lower cavity, inclosing all the organs
of mere material animal existence, is afterwards developed.

In other words, when the egg is a mere mass of oil and albumen, not indicating as yet in any
way the character of the future animal, and discernible only by the
microscope, the distinction is indicated between the brains and the
senses, between the organs of instinct and sensation and those of
mere animal functions.

At that stage of its existence, however, when the egg consists of an outer sac, an inner sac, and
a dot, its resemblance to a cell is unmistakable; and, in fact, an egg, when forming, is nothing
but a single cell. This comparison is important, because there are both animals and plants which,
during their whole existence, consist of a single organic cell, while
others are made up of countless millions of such cells.

Between these two extremes we have all degrees, from the innumerable
cells that build up the body of the highest Vertebrate to the single-celled
Worm, and from the myriad cells of the Oak to the single-celled Alga.

But while we recognize the identity of cell-structure and egg-structure at this point in the
history of the egg, we must not forget the great distinction between them,-- namely, that, while
the cells remain component parts of the whole body, the egg separates itself and assumes a distinct
individual existence. Even now, while still microscopically small,
its individuality begins; other substances collect around it, are
absorbed into it, nourish it, serve it.

Every being is a centre about which many other things cluster and converge, and which has the power
to assimilate to itself the necessary elements of its life. Every egg is already such a centre,
differing from the cells that surround it by no material elements, but by the principle of life
in which its individuality consists, which is to make it a new being, instead of a fellow-cell
with those that build up the body of the parent animal and remain component parts of it. This
intangible something is the subtile element that eludes our closest analysis; it is the germ
of the immaterial principle according to which the new being is to develop. The physical germ we
see; the spiritual germ we cannot see, though we may trace its action
on the material elements through which it is expressed. The first change
in the yolk, after the formation of the Purkinjean vesicle, is the
appearance of minute dots near the wall at the side opposite the
vesicle.

These increase in number and size, but remain always on that half of the yolk, leaving the other
half of the globe clear. One can hardly conceive the beauty of the egg as seen through the microscope
at this period of its growth, when the whole yolk is divided, with the dark granules on one side,
while the other side, where the transparent halo of the vesicle is seen, is brilliant with
light. With the growth of the egg these granules enlarge, become more distinct, and under the microscope
some of them appear to be hollow. They are not round in form, but rather irregular, and under the effect
of light they are exceedingly brilliant.

Presently, instead of being scattered equally over the space they occupy, they form clusters,-- constellations,
as it were,-- and between these clusters are clear spaces, produced by the
separation of the albumen from the oil. At this period of its growth
there is a wonderful resemblance between the appearance of the egg,
as seen under the microscope, and the firmament with the celestial
bodies.

The little clusters or constellations are unequally divided: here and there they are two and two like
double stars, or sometimes in threes or fives, or in sevens, recalling
the Pleiades, and the clear albuminous tracks between are like the
empty spaces separating the stars.

This is no fanciful simile: it is simply true that such is the actual appearance of the yolk at this
time; and the idea cannot but suggest itself to the mind, that the thoughts which have been at
work in the universe are collected and repeated here within this little egg, which offers us a
miniature diagram of the firmament. This is one of the first changes of the yolk, ending by forming
regular clusters with a sort of net-work of albumen between, and
then this phase of the growth is complete.

Now the clusters of the yolk separate, and next the albumen in its turn concentrates into clusters,
and the dark bodies, which have been till now the striking points, give way to the lighter spheres
of albumen between which the clusters are scattered. Presently the whole becomes redissolved:
these stages of the growth being completed, this little system of
worlds is melted, as it were: but while it undergoes this process,
the albuminous spheres, after being dissolved, arrange themselves
in concentric rings, alternating with rings of granules, around the
Purkinjean vesicle.

At this time we are again reminded of Saturn and its rings, which seems to have its counterpart here. These
rings disappear, and now once more out of the yolk mass loom up little
dots as minute as before; but they are round instead of angular, and
those nearest the Purkinjean vesicle are smaller and clearer, containing
less of oil than the larger and darker ones on the opposite side.

From this time the yolk begins to take its color, the oily cells assuming a yellow tint, while
the albuminous cells near the vesicle become whiter. Up to this period the processes in the different
cells seem to have been controlled by the different character of the substance of each; but now
it would seem that the changes become more independent of physical
or material influences, for each kind of cell undergoes the same
process.

They all assume the ordinary cell character, with outer and inner sac,-- the inner sac forming on
the side, like the Purkinjean vesicle itself; but it does not retain
this position, for, as soon as its wall is formed and it becomes a
distinct body, it floats away from the side and takes its place in
the centre.

Next there arise within it a number of little bodies crystalline in form, and which actually are wax
or oil crystals. They increase with great rapidity, the inner sac or mesoblast becoming sometimes
so crowded with them, that its shape is affected by the protrusion of their angles. This process goes
on till all the cells are so filled by the mesoblast, with its myriad
brood of cells, that the outer sac or ectoblast becomes a mere halo
around it.

Then every mesoblast contracts; the contraction deepens, till it is divided across in both directions,
separating thus into four parts, then into eight, then into sixteen, and so on, till every cell
is crowded with hundreds of minute mesoblasts, each containing the indication of a central dot or
entoblast. Kornthal is situated
four miles from Stuttgardt; it was founded in 1819 by dissenters from the Moravians and Lutherans,
and consisted in 1825 of about seventy families. J. and M.Y. went there on the 19th.

We were received, says the former, in a brotherly manner by the Director Hoffman. On entering
the room we were informed that their pastor had died the night before; but instead of sorrow
there seemed to be joy. This society holds it for a religious duty to rejoice when any of their
members are favored to enter a state of endless bliss. This is religious fortitude which but
few possess, but I believe it is with them sincere, for in going over the institution with
the Director, I observed they spoke of it as a matter of holy triumph.

No meeting was held with the members of the establishment during this visit; it was left for
J. and M.Y. to attend the usual evening assembly on First-day, the 21st; and they were informed
that it would be an occasion on which any present who were moved by divine influence might
freely relieve their minds.

At three o'clock, J.Y. writes, we set off to Kornthal under most trying feelings; I do not
know when I have suffered so much from discouragement. On account of the death of the pastor,
many were come to attend the interment which was to take place the next day. This caused the
meeting to be large; not less than 700 persons were present, and among them six or seven pastors.
The service commenced with a few verses; the first words were these:--

    "Holy Spirit come unto us,
     And make our hearts thy dwelling-place."

I can truly say I was awfully impressed with their meaning, and a secret prayer rose in my
heart that it might be experienced amongst us. After the singing, a silence truly solemn ensued,
and I intimated that I felt an impression to say a few words. When I sat down our kind friend
the Director summed up the substance of what I had said, and repeated it in an impressive and
becoming manner. He did this with the idea that some present who only understood Low German
might not have clearly got the sense; however, we were told afterwards that they had understood
every word that I had said. Hoffman generously acknowledged to the hearers that what had been
delivered was strictly conformable with Scripture doctrine, and that he united most fully with it.

Next morning the children being assembled for religious instruction, at the conclusion I requested
they might remain awhile, and I had a few words to say to them, which was a relief to my mind.
Hoffman asked if they had understood; they almost all answered, Ja, ja, ja.

This visit has afforded an opportunity of our becoming acquainted with many serious characters
out of the neighborhood who were come to the interment; many of them felt near to me in spirit.
Hoffman's wife is a precious, still character; there is much sweetness in her countenance.
All received us heartily in Christian love; it felt to me as if it were the night before one
of our Monthly Meetings, and I was at a Friend's house, so much freedom was to be felt. The
inn is kept by Hoffman; they would make us no charge, saying love must pay all. We were most
easy to make a present to the box for the institution, but they would have refused it, saying
feelingly, Travellers like you have many expenses.

The cause for J.Y.'s peculiar discouragement in the prospect of this meeting was the want of
an interpreter. Any one who knows the difficulty of public speaking or continuous discourse
in a foreign language, will comprehend the anxiety which he felt when he saw no alternative
but that of committing himself to preach in German. Though very familiar with the language,
he never completely overcame the want of early and of thoroughly grammatical instruction in
that difficult and intricate tongue. It was with feelings of this kind that he penned the following
memorandum before going to Kornthal:--

18th.--Extremely low in mind and in want of faith. No creature can conceive what I suffer in
the prospect of having to speak in a foreign tongue in a religious meeting.

At Stuttgardt they took leave of their endeared friend, Henry Kienlin.

It is, says J.Y., hard to part; but every one must follow his calling, and mind only the direction
of the Lord.

On quitting Stuttgardt, John Yeardley makes a few remarks regarding the religious state of
Würtemberg.

22nd.--Würtemberg is a favored land. In Feldbach, three hours from Stuttgardt, there are about
800 Christian people who hold meetings in each other's houses: some of them belong to the Kornthal
Society. Years ago, many emigrated to America and Russia, to gain religious liberty; now it
is granted them by their own Government.

On the 22nd, they journeyed to Tübingen, where they visited the worthy Professor Streundel.

He was surprised and shy when we entered, as if he wanted to say, The sooner you take leave
the better. But as soon as he knew where we came from, his countenance changed, and he received
us heartily. He had his wife called--a very polite person. He asked many questions as to our
church discipline, &c.; the order of our Society pleased him much. He had undertaken the study
of divinity from an apprehension of duty, and said that it was only by the assistance of the
Holy Spirit we could be made instrumental in the ministry.

On the 25th they came to Wilhelmsdorf, on the Lake of Constance, where is a branch of the Kornthal
Association. They found the director "a man of great simplicity, but of inward worth."

He was, continues John Yeardley, six years in Kornthal, and seems to be sensible of the importance
of the situation he fills, and of his incapability to be useful to others unless assisted by
divine grace. He read our certificate attentively, and said, in a weighty manner, Yes; one
Lord over all, one faith, one baptism. We found they have no regular preacher, but meet for
worship every evening and on First-day mornings. We were desirous of seeing them together,
and they were pleased to find such was our intention. His mother, at work to-day in the Oliver
plantations, can never comprehend why her boy is famous; this gift of God to him means nothing
to her. Nothing to him, either, which is saddest of all; he is unconscious, wears his crown
as an idiot might. Whose fault is that? Deeper than slavery the evil
lies.

Mr. Oliver did his duty well to the boy, being an observant and thoroughly kind master. The plantation
was large, heartsome, faced the sun, swarmed with little black urchins, with plenty to eat, and
nothing to do.

All that Tom required, as he fattened out of baby-into boyhood, was room in which to be warm,
on the grass-patch, or by the kitchen-fires, to be stupid, flabby, sleepy,-- kicked and petted
alternately by the other hands. He had a habit of crawling up on the porches and verandas of
the mansion and squatting there in the sun, waiting for a kind word
or touch from those who went in and out.

He seldom failed to receive it. Southerners know nothing of the physical shiver of aversion with which
even the Abolitionists of the North touch the negro: so Tom, through his very helplessness, came
to be a sort of pet in the family, a playmate, occasionally, of Mr. Oliver's own infant children. The
boy, creeping about day after day in the hot light, was as repugnant an object as the lizards
in the neighboring swamp, and promised to be of as little use to his master. He was of the
lowest negro type, from which only field-hands can be made,-- coal-black, with protruding heels,
the ape-jaw, blubber-lips constantly open, the sightless eyes closed,
and the head thrown far back on the shoulders, lying on the back,
in fact, a habit which he still retains, and which adds to the imbecile
character of the face.

Until he was seven years of age, Tom was regarded on the plantation as an idiot, not unjustly;
for at the present time his judgment and reason rank but as those of a child four years old.
He showed a dog-like affection for some members of the household,-- a son of Mr. Oliver's especially,-- and
a keen, nervous sensitiveness to the slightest blame or praise from them,-- possessed, too,
a low animal irritability of temper, giving way to inarticulate yelps of passion when provoked.
That is all, so far; we find no other outgrowth of intellect or soul from the boy: just the
same record as that of thousands of imbecile negro-children.

Generations of heathendom and slavery have dredged the inherited brains and temperaments of
such children tolerably clean of all traces of power or purity,-- palsied the brain, brutalized
the nature. Tom apparently fared no better than his fellows.

It was not until 1857 that those phenomenal powers latent in the boy were suddenly developed,
which stamped him the anomaly he is to-day.

One night, sometime in the summer of that year, Mr. Oliver's family
were wakened by the sound of music in the drawing-room: not only the
simple airs, but the most difficult exercises usually played by his
daughters, were repeated again and again, the touch of the musician
being timid, but singularly true and delicate.

Going down, they found Tom, who had been left asleep in the hall, seated at the piano in an
ecstasy of delight, breaking out at the end of each successful fugue into shouts of laughter, kicking
his heels and clapping his hands. This was the first time he had
touched the piano.

Naturally, Tom became a nine-days'wonder on the plantation. He was brought in as an after-dinner's
amusement; visitors asked for him as the show of the place.

There was hardly a conception, however, in the minds of those who heard him, of how deep the
cause for wonder lay. The planters'wives and daughters of the neighborhood were not people
who would be apt to comprehend music as a science, or to use it as a language; they only saw
in the little negro, therefore, a remarkable facility for repeating the airs they drummed on
their pianos,-- in a different manner from theirs, it is true,-- which bewildered them. They noticed,
too, that, however the child's fingers fell on the keys, cadences followed, broken, wandering,
yet of startling beauty and pathos. The house-servants, looking in through the open doors at
the little black figure perched up before the instrument, while unknown, wild harmony drifted
through the evening air, had a better conception of him. He was possessed; some ghost spoke through
him: which is a fair enough definition of genius for a Georgian slave
to offer.

Mr. Oliver, as we said, was indulgent. Tom was allowed to have constant access to the piano;
in truth, he could not live without it; when deprived of music now, actual physical debility followed:
the gnawing Something had found its food at last. No attempt was made, however, to give him
any scientific musical teaching; nor-- I wish it distinctly borne in mind-- has he ever at any
time received such instruction.

The planter began to wonder what kind of a creature this was which he had bought, flesh and
soul. In what part of the unsightly baby-carcass had been stowed away these old airs, forgotten
by every one else, and some of them never heard by the child but
once, but which he now reproduced, every note intact, and with whatever
quirk or quiddity of style belonged to the person who originally had
sung or played them?

Stranger still the harmonies which he had never heard, had learned from no man. The sluggish
breath of the old house, being enchanted, grew into quaint and delicate
whims of music, never the same, changing every day.

Never glad: uncertain, sad minors always, vexing the content of the hearer,-- one inarticulate,
unanswered question of pain in all, making them one. Even the vulgarest listener was troubled,
hardly knowing why,-- how sorry Tom's music was!

At last the time came when the door was to be opened, when some listener, not vulgar, recognizing
the child as God made him, induced his master to remove him from
the plantation.

Something ought to be done for him; the world ought not to be cheated of this pleasure; besides-- the
money that could be made!

So Mr. Oliver, with a kindly feeling for Tom, proud, too, of this agreeable monster which
his plantation had grown, and sensible that it was a more fruitful source of revenue than tobacco-fields,
set out with the boy, literally to seek their fortune.

The first exhibition of him was given, I think, in Savannah, Georgia; thence he was taken to Charleston,
Richmond, to all the principal cities and towns in the Southern States.

This was in 1858. From that time until the present Tom has lived constantly an open life, petted,
feted, his real talent befogged by exaggeration, and so pampered and coddled that one might suppose
the only purpose was to corrupt and wear it out. For these reasons this statement is purposely guarded,
restricted to plain, known facts.

No sooner had Tom been brought before the public than the pretensions
put forward by his master commanded the scrutiny of both scientific
and musical skeptics.

His capacities were subjected to rigorous tests. Fortunately for the boy: for, so tried,-- harshly,
it is true, yet skilfully,-- they not only bore the trial, but acknowledged the touch as skilful;
every day new powers were developed, until he reached his limit, beyond which it is not probable
he will ever pass. That limit, however, establishes him as an anomaly
in musical science.

Physically, and in animal temperament, this negro ranks next to the lowest Guinea type: with
strong appetites and gross bodily health, except in one particular, which will be mentioned
hereafter. In the every-day apparent intellect, in reason or judgment, he is but one degree above
an idiot,-- incapable of comprehending the simplest conversation on
ordinary topics, amused or enraged with trifles such as would affect
a child of three years old.

On the other side, his affections are alive, even vehement, delicate in their instinct as a
dog's or an infant's; he will detect the step of any one dear to
him in a crowd, and burst into tears, if not kindly spoken to.

His memory is so accurate that he can repeat, without the loss of a syllable, a discourse of fifteen
minutes in length, of which he does not understand a word. Songs, too, in French or German,
after a single hearing, he renders not only literally in words, but
in notes, style, and expression.

His voice, however, is discordant, and of small compass.

In music, this boy of twelve years, born blind, utterly ignorant of a note, ignorant of every
phase of so-called musical science, interprets severely classical
composers with a clearness of conception in which he excels, and a
skill in mechanism equal to that of our second-rate artists.

His concerts usually include any themes selected by the audience from the higher grades of Italian or
German opera. His comprehension of the meaning of music, as a prophetic or historical voice
which few souls utter and fewer understand, is clear and vivid: he
renders it thus, with whatever mastery of the mere material part he
may possess, fingering, dramatic effects, etc.: these are but means
to him, not an end, as with most artists.

One could fancy that Tom was never traitor to the intent or soul of the theme. What God or the
Devil meant to say by this or that harmony, what the soul of one man cried aloud to another in it,
this boy knows, and is to that a faithful witness.

His deaf, uninstructed soul has never been tampered with by art-critics who know the body well
enough of music, but nothing of the living creature within. The world is full of these vulgar
souls that palter with eternal Nature and the eternal Arts, blind
to the Word who dwells among us therein.

Tom, or the daemon in Tom, was not one of them.

With regard to his command of the instrument, two points have been especially noted by musicians:
the unusual frequency of occurrence of tours de force in his playing, and the scientific precision
of his manner of touch.

For example, in a progression of augmented chords, his mode of fingering is invariably that
of the schools, not that which would seem most natural to a blind child never taught to place
a finger. Even when seated with his back to the piano, and made to play in that position, (a
favorite feat in his concerts,) the touch is always scientifically
accurate.

The peculiar power which Tom possesses, however, is one which requires no scientific knowledge
of music in his audiences to appreciate.

Placed at the instrument with any musician, he plays a perfect bass accompaniment to the treble
of music heard for the first time as he plays. Then taking the seat vacated by the other performer,
he instantly gives the entire piece, intact in brilliancy and symmetry, not a note lost or
misplaced. The selections of music by which this power of Tom's was tested, two years ago,
were sometimes fourteen and sixteen pages in length; on one occasion,
at an exhibition at the White House, after a long concert, he was
tried with two pieces,-- one thirteen, the other twenty pages long,
and was successful.

We know of no parallel case to this in musical history. Grimm tells us, as one of the most remarkable
manifestations of Mozart's infant genius, that at the age of nine
he was required to give an accompaniment to an aria which he had never
heard before, and without notes.

There were false accords in the first attempt, he acknowledges; but the second was pure. When
the music to which Tom plays secondo is strictly classical, he sometimes
balks for an instant in passages; to do otherwise would argue a creative
power equal to that of the master composers; but when any chordant
harmony runs through it, (on which the glowing negro soul can seize,
you know,) there are no "false accords," as with the infant Mozart.

I wish to draw especial attention to this power of the boy, not only because it is, so far as I know,
unmatched in the development of any musical talent, but because, considered in the context of
his entire intellectual structure, it involves a curious problem. The mere repetition of music heard
but once, even when, as in Tom's case, it is given with such incredible fidelity, and after
the lapse of years, demands only a command of mechanical skill, and an abnormal condition of
the power of memory; but to play secondo to music never heard or seen implies the comprehension
of the full drift of the symphony in its current,-- a capacity to create, in short. Yet such
attempts as Tom has made to dictate music for publication do not sustain any such inference. They
are only a few light marches, gallops, etc., simple and plaintive enough, but with easily detected
traces of remembered harmonies: very different from the strange, weird improvisations of every
day.

One would fancy that the mere attempt to bring this mysterious genius within him in bodily presence
before the outer world woke, too, the idiotic nature to utter its reproachful, unable cry.
Nor is this the only bar by which poor Tom's soul is put in mind of its foul bestial prison.
After any too prolonged effort, such as those I have alluded to,
his whole bodily frame gives way, and a complete exhaustion of the
brain follows, accompanied with epileptic spasms.

The trial at the White House, mentioned before, was successful, but was followed by days of
illness.

Being a slave, Tom never was taken into a Free State; for the same reason his master refused
advantageous offers from European managers. The highest points North at which his concerts were
given were Baltimore and the upper Virginia towns. I heard him sometime in 1860. He remained
a week or two in the town, playing every night.

The concerts were unique enough. They were given in a great barn of a room, gaudy with hot,
soot-stained frescoes, chandeliers, walls splotched with gilt. The audience was large, always;
such as a provincial town affords: not the purest bench of musical
criticism before which to bring poor Tom.

Beaux and belles, siftings of old country families, whose grandfathers trapped and traded and married
with the Indians,-- the savage thickening of whose blood told itself in high cheekbones, flashing
jewelry, champagne-bibbing, a comprehension of the tom-tom music of schottisches and polkas; money-made
men and their wives, cooped up by respectability, taking concerts when they were given in town,
taking the White Sulphur or Cape May in summer, taking beef for dinner,
taking the pork-trade in winter,-- toute la vie en programme; the débris
of a town, the roughs, the boys, school-children,-- Tom was nearly
as well worth a quarter as the negro-minstrels; here and there a pair
of reserved, homesick eyes, a peculiar, reticent face, some whey-skinned
ward-teacher's, perhaps, or some German cobbler's, but hints of a
hungry soul, to whom Beethoven and Mendelssohn knew how to preach
an unerring gospel.

The stage was broad, planked, with a drop-curtain behind,-- the Doge marrying the sea, I believe;
in front, a piano and chair.

Presently, Mr. Oliver, a well-natured looking man, (one thought of that,) came forward, leading and
coaxing along a little black boy, dressed in white linen, somewhat fat and stubborn in build.
Tom was not in a good humor that night; the evening before had refused to play altogether; so
his master perspired anxiously before he could get him placed in
rule before the audience, and repeat his own little speech, which
sounded like a Georgia after-dinner gossip.

The boy's head, as I said, rested on his back, his mouth wide open constantly; his great blubber
lips and shining teeth, therefore, were all you saw when he faced you. He required to be petted
and bought like any other weak-minded child. The concert was a mixture of music, whining,
coaxing, and promised candy and cake.

He seated himself at last before the piano, a full half-yard distant,
stretching out his arms full-length, like an ape clawing for food,-- his
feet, when not on the pedals, squirming and twisting incessantly,-- answering
some joke of his master's with a loud "Yha! yha!"

Nothing indexes the brain like the laugh; this was idiotic.

"Now, Tom, boy, something we like from Verdi."

The head fell farther back, the claws began to work, and those of his harmonies which you would
have chosen as the purest exponents of passion began to float through the room. Selections from
Weber, Beethoven, and others whom I have forgotten, followed.

At the close of each piece, Tom, without waiting for the audience,
would himself applaud violently, kicking, pounding his hands together,
turning always to his master for the approving pat on the head.
But before they separated I ventured to request, in the name of my husband, that such as inclined
would favor us with their company a while longer, and rest a little in silence. Nearly all
remained, and under a solemn covering he addressed the company, while I translated in much
fear, yet ventured at the end to say a few words for myself. Several of the company attended
us home, and expressed much satisfaction: and from this time a door was opened to us at Neufchâtel
in a very remarkable manner. They flocked to our inn at all times in the day and in considerable
numbers, many acknowledging, in the course of very interesting conversation, that they thirsted
for something more satisfying than mere doctrines continually repeated--something that would
preserve from evil, that would cleanse the heart, that would bring into nearer communion with
the Saviour.--(Letter to Elizabeth Dudley.)

On the 27th, continues the Diary, A. Borel conducted us to a meeting with some interior persons,
about three miles from town. It was a time of close exercise of mind, but ended to satisfaction,
and, I hope, to the edification and strength of some present. The master of the house, Professor
Pétavel, said that never until that evening had he been able to see clearly the beauty and
advantage of pure spiritual worship, contrasted with outward forms.

After, having taken tea with a large company, our kind guide conducted us through woods and
over mountainous and bad roads to a village, where a large concourse of people were assembled
for worship. A schoolmaster was speaking on a chapter which had been read: we had full unity
with what he delivered, which was accompanied with a power which convinced us that he really
preached the gospel. After he had done, we were introduced as religious strangers from England;
and silence ensuing, opportunity was given for us to express what came before us.

28th.--Some of the most interior told us they had long been exercised about spiritual worship,
and had often wished to see some of the Society of Friends. On hearing of our intended visit
two years ago, they said if we had come then [we should have found them] wrapped up in doctrines,
but now they were given to see they could not live on the letter alone, they must be born again,
and partake of that bread which cometh down from heaven. Many of these awakened persons came
to our inn at all hours, and our hearts were filled with love towards them as a cup overflowing;
so that it was given to us to minister to them almost individually as they came to us.

On the 29th they went to Berne, and the following morning walked over to Wabern, where some
of A. Borel's friends resided, who received them with open arms.

After dinner M. Combe drove us in his car to Scherli. We alighted at the house of one of the
peasant-farmers, situated quite among the mountains, with the Alps fair in view. They received
us in the name of disciples with every mark of love and respect. They were more disposed to
sit in silence than to ask questions. On my asking if they had seen or heard of any of our
Friends, in these parts, one of them, innocently replied, No; we do not know anything of your
religious principles. I then began to explain them; and when I spoke of our manner of worship,
belief, &c., and of some of our peculiar tenets respecting Baptism, the Supper, &c., it is
not possible to express their emotion; their eyes turned first towards one and then towards
another, and seemed to sparkle with joy, without their uttering a word till I had done. These
were entirely the principles they held, and about a year ago they separated from the church,
about twenty in number, and attempted to meet for religious worship. This was prevented by
the police; for although, they live in a very remote situation, they are strictly watched by
the pastor, who wishes to compel them to come to his worship. We were there only an hour or
two, but a number of these innocent-hearted people came flocking to the house, and immediately
settled into a silence truly solemn. We could indeed say our hearts burned with love towards them.

Two of these young men came to us the nest day, and spent most of the day with us. One of them,
Christian Speicher, told me he did not know how to express the satisfaction he felt to hear
of a body of professing Christians in a distant land, who held the same religious principles
as they in their isolated situation had been long seeking after and had been made willing to
suffer for.

During our stay under this hospitable roof [M. Combe's at Wabern] it was an open house for
all comers, and they were not few. Our spirits were so united with many of them we did not
know how to leave them; but our great concern was to recommend them to remain with Him who
had so mercifully and powerfully visited them.

On the 31st they returned to Berne, and the next day called upon a pious chimney-sweeper, waiting
whilst he changed his sooty clothes.

We were not a little surprised to hear him of his own accord, without knowing who we were,
declare the same doctrine as we are concerned to preach. There are a few inward persons who
assemble at his house, and hold the same sentiments. About a year and a half or two years ago,
there was a remarkable awakening in the canton of Berne, and a few here and there of a more
spiritually-minded sort seceded. There is a ferment to prevent their meeting together, and
to compel them to go to the usual place of worship; but in vain, for nothing but spiritual
food can satisfy their hungry souls. 

STOPPING A RUNAWAY COUPLE.

Captain Galton who some years ago was the government railway inspector, in one of his reports relates
the following singular circumstance.“ A girl who was in love with the engine-driver of a train,
had engaged to run away from her father’ s house in order to be married. She arranged to leave
by a train this man was driving. Her father and brother got intelligence of her intended escape;
and having missed catching her as she got into the train, they contrived,
whether with or without the assistance of a porter is not very clear,
to turn the train through facing points, as it left the station, into
a bog.” The captain does not pursue the subject further in his report,
so that we are left in ignorance as to the success of the plan for
stopping a contemplated runaway marriage.

A MADMAN IN A RAILWAY CARRIAGE.

We subjoin from the Annual Register for 1864 an account of an alarming occurrence which took
place July 4th of that year:—“ In one of the third-class compartments of the express train leaving
King’ s Cross Station at 9.15 p. m., a tall and strongly-built man, dressed as a sailor, and
having a wild and haggard look, took his seat about three minutes before the train started.
He was accompanied to the carriage by a woman, whom he afterwards
referred to as his wife, and by a man, apparently a cab-driver, of
both of whom he took leave when the train was about to start.

It had scarcely done so, when, on putting his hand to his pocket, he called out that he had
been robbed of his purse, containing£ 17, and at once began to shout
and gesticulate in a manner which greatly alarmed his fellow-travellers,
four in number, in the same compartment.

He continued to roar and swear with increasing violence for some time, and then made an attempt to
throw himself out of the window. He threw his arms and part of his body out of the window,
and had just succeeded in placing one of his legs out, when the other occupants of the carriage,
who had been endeavouring to keep him back, succeeded in dragging him from the window. Being
foiled in this attempt, he turned round upon those who had been instrumental in keeping him back.
After a long and severe struggle, which— notwithstanding the speed the train was running at— was
heard in the adjoining compartments, the sailor was overcome by the united exertions of the
party, and was held down in a prostrate position by two of their number. Though thus secured,
he still continued to struggle and shout vehemently, and it was not till some time afterwards,
when they managed to bind his hands and strap him to the seat, that
the passengers in the compartment felt themselves secure.

This train, it may be explained, makes the journey from London to
Peterborough, a distance little short of eighty miles, without a single
stoppage; and as the scene we have been describing began immediately
after the train left London, the expectation of having to pass the
time usually occupied between the two stations (one hour and fifty
minutes) with such a companion must have been far from agreeable.

While the struggle was going on, and even for some time afterwards, almost frantic attempts were
made to get the train stopped. The attention of those in the adjoining compartment was readily gained
by waving handkerchiefs out of the window, and by-and-by a full explanation of the circumstances
was communicated through the aperture in which the lamp that lights both compartments is placed.
A request to communicate with the guard was made from one carriage to another for a short distance,
but it was found impossible to continue it, and so the occupants of the compartments beyond the one
nearest the scene of the disturbance could learn nothing as to its nature, a vague feeling
of alarm seized them, and all the way along to Peterborough a succession
of shouts of‘ Stop the train,’ mixed with the frantic screams of female
passengers, was kept up.

On the arrival of the train at Peterborough the man was released by his captors and placed on
the platform. No sooner was he there, however, than he rushed with a renewed outburst of fury
on those who had taken the chief part in restraining his violence, and as he kept vociferating
that they had robbed him of his money, it was some time before the railway officials could be
got to interfere— indeed, it seemed likely for some time that he would be allowed to go on in
the train. As remonstrances were made from all quarters to the station-master to take the fellow
into custody, he at length agreed, after being furnished with the names and addresses of the
other occupants of the carriage, to hand him over to the police.

The general impression on those who witnessed the sailor’ s fury seemed to be that he was labouring
under a violent attack of delirium tremens, and he had every appearance of having been drinking
hard for some days. Had there been only one or even two occupants of the compartment besides
himself, there seems every reason to believe that a much more deadly struggle would have ensued,
as he displayed immense strength.” INSURED.

The engine of an ordinary railway train broke down midway between
two stations.

As an express train was momentarily expected to arrive at the spot, the passengers were urgently
called upon to get out of the carriages. A countryman in leather breeches and top-boots, who sat
in a corner of one of the carriages, comfortably swathed in a travelling
blanket, obstinately refused to budge.

In vain the porter begged him to come out, saying the express would reach the spot in a minute, and the
train would in all probability be dashed to pieces. The traveller pulled an insurance ticket
out of his breeches pocket, exclaiming,“ Don’ t you see I’ ve insured my life?” and with that he set up
a horse laugh, and sunk back into his corner.

They had to force him out of the train, and an instant afterwards the express ran into it.
A NEW TRICK. A novel illustration of the ingenuity of thieves has been afforded by an incident reported
from the continent.

For some time past a North German railway company had been suffering
from the repeated loss of goods which were sent by luggage train,
and which, notwithstanding all research and precautions, continued
to disappear in a very mysterious manner.

The secret which the inquiries set on foot had failed to discover was at length revealed by a rather
amusing accident. A long box, on one side of which were words equivalent to“ This side up,” had, in disregard
of this caution, been set up on end in the goods shed. Some time afterwards the employés were
not a little startled to hear a voice, apparently proceeding from the box in question, begging
the hearers to let the speaker out. On opening the lid, the railway officials
were surprised and amused to find a man inside standing on his head.

In the explanation which followed, the fellow wanted to account for his appearance under such unusual circumstances
as due to the result of a wager, but he was given into custody, and it was soon found that the thieves
had adopted this method of conveying themselves on to the railway premises, and that during
the absence of the employés they had let themselves out of the box
which they at once filled with any articles they could lay their hands
on, refastened the lid, and then decamped.

But for the unfortunate inability of human nature to endure an inverted position for an indefinite
period, the ingenious authors of the scheme might have flourished a long time without detection.
A TRAIN STOPPED BY CATERPILLARS. Colonies and India quotes from a New Zealand paper the following
story:— In the neighbourhood of Turakina an army of caterpillars, hundreds of thousands strong,
was marching across the railway line, bound for a new field of oats, when the train came along.
Thousands of the creeping vermin were crushed by the wheels of the engine, and suddenly the train
came to a dead stop. On examination it was found that the wheels of the engine had become so greasy
that they kept on revolving without advancing— they could not grip the rails. The guard and
the engine driver procured sand and strewed it on the rails, and
the train made a fresh start, but it was found that during the stoppage
caterpillars in thousands had crawled all over the engine, and all
over the carriages inside and out.

TRAVELLING IN RUSSIA.

Of course, travelling in Russia is no longer what it was. Russia, by D. M. Wallace, M. A. AN
ARMY WITH BANNERS. As giving an idea of the old way of signalling and precautions employed to ensure
safety on the Hudson River Railroad nearly forty years ago, we append the following from
the Albany Journal. It should be premised that this road extends
from New York to East Albany, a distance of only 144 miles:—“ AN
ARMY WITH BANNERS.— As you are whirled along over the Hudson River
Railroad at the rate of 40 miles an hour, you catch a glimpse, every
minute or two, of a man waving something like a white pocket handkerchief
on the end of a stick, with a satisfactory sort of expression of
countenance.

If you take the trouble to count, you will find that it happens some two hundred times between
East Albany and Thirty-first street. It looks like rather a useless ceremony, at first glance,
but is a pretty important one, nevertheless.“ There are 225 of these‘ flagmen’ stationed at intervals
along the whole length of the line. Just before a train is to pass, each one walks over his“
beat,” and looks to see that every track and tie, every tunnel, switch,
rail, clamp, and rivet, is in good order and free from obstruction.

If so, he takes his stand with a white flag and waves it to the approaching
train as a signal to‘ come on’— and come on it does, at full speed.

If there is anything wrong, he waves a red flag, or at night a red
lamp, and the engineer, on seeing it, promptly shuts off the steam,
and sounds the whistle to‘ put down the brakes.’ Every inch of the
road is carefully examined after the passage of each train.

Austrian espionage is hardly more strict.” SEIZURE OF A RAILWAY TRAIN
FOR DEBT.

The financial difficulties under which some railway companies have
recently laboured were brought to a crisis lately in the case of the
Potteries, Shrewsbury, and North Wales Railway, a line running from
Llanymynech to Shrewsbury, with a projected continuation to the Potteries.

A debenture holder having obtained a judgment against the company, a writ
was forthwith issued, and a few days back the sheriff’ s officers unexpectedly
presented themselves at the company’ s principal station in Shrewsbury,
and formally entered upon possession.

The down train immediately after entered the station, and the bailiffs, without having given
any previous intimation to the manager, whose office adjoins the
station, seized the engines and carriages, and refused to permit the
outgoing train to start, although many passengers had taken tickets.

Ultimately the manager obtained the requisite permission, and it was arranged that the train should make
the journey, one of the bailiffs meanwhile remaining in charge. The acting-sheriff refused a similar concession
with regard to the further running of the trains, and it being fair day at Shrewsbury, and a large number
of persons from various stations along the line having taken return tickets, much inconvenience to
the public was likely to ensue. The North Wales section of this line was completed in August
last at a cost of a little over£ 1,100,000, and was opened for passenger
and goods traffic on the 13th of that month.

As has already been stated, the ordinary traffic of the line was,
after the enforcement of the writ, permitted to be continued, with
the proviso that a bailiff should accompany each train.

This condition was naturally very galling to the officials of the railway
company, but they nevertheless treated the representative of the civil
law with a marked politeness.

On the night of his first becoming a constant passenger by the line he rode
in a first-class carriage to Llanymynech, and on the return journey
the attentive guard conducted him to a similar compartment which was
devoted to his sole occupation.

On arriving at Kennerly the bailiff became conscious of the progress of an elaborate process
of shunting, followed by an entire stoppage of the train. After sitting
patiently for some minutes it occurred to him to put his head out of
the window and inquire the reason for the delay, and in carrying
out the idea he discovered that the train of which his carriage had
lately formed a part was vanishing from sight round a distant curve
in the line.

He lost no time in getting out and making his way into the station,
which he found locked up, according to custom, after the passage through
of the last down train.

Kennerly is a small roadside station about 12 miles from Shrewsbury,
and offers no accommodation for chance guests; and, had it been otherwise,
it was of course the first duty of the bailiff to look after the train,
of which he at that moment was supposed to be in“ possession.” There
being no alternative, he started on foot for Shrewsbury, where he
arrived shortly after midnight, having accomplished a perilous passage
along the line.

It appeared, on inquiry, that in the course of the shunting the coupling-chain
which connected the tail coach with the body of the train had by some
means become unlinked; hence the accident. The bailiff accepted the
explanation, but on subsequent journeys he carefully avoided the
tail-coach.

Railway News, 1866. A KANGAROO ATTACKING A TRAIN. The latest marsupial
freak is thus given by a thoroughly reliable correspondent of the Courier
(an Australian paper):— A rather exciting race took place between the
train and a large kangaroo on Wednesday night last.

When about nine miles from Dalby a special surprised the kangaroo, who was inside the fences. The
animal ran for some distance in front, but getting exhausted he suddenly turned to face his
opponent, and jumped savagely at the stoker on the engine, who, not being able to run, gamely faced
the“ old man” with a handful of coal.

The kangaroo, however, only reached the side of the tender, when, the step striking him, he
was“ knocked clean out of it” in the one round. No harm happened beyond a bit of a scare to the
stoker, as the kangaroo picked himself up quickly and cleared the
fence. SHE TAKES FITS. Some time ago, an old lady and gentleman were
coming from Devenport when the train was crowded. A young man got up
and gave the old lady a seat, while his companion, another young
gent, remained stedfast and let the old gent stand.

This did not suit the old gentleman, so he concluded to get a seat in some way, and quickly
turning to the young man on the seat beside his wife, he said:—“ Will you be so kind as to watch that
woman while I get a seat in another carriage? She takes fits!” This startled
the young gent. He could not bear the idea of taking charge of a fitty
woman, so the old gentleman got a seat, and his wife was never known
to take a fit afterwards.

SNAGS’ CORNERS. The officials of a Michigan railroad that was being extended were waited upon
the other day by a person from the pine woods and sand hills who announced himself as Mr. Snags,
and who wanted to know if it could be possible that the proposed
line was not to come any nearer than three miles to the hamlet named
in his honour.“ Is Snags’ Corners a place of much importance?” asked the
President.“ Is it?

Well, I should say it was! We made over a ton of maple sugar there last spring!”“ Does business
flourish there?”“ Flourish! Why, business is on the gallop there every minute in the whole twenty-four
hours. We had three false alarms of fire there in one week. How’
s that for a town which is to be left three miles off your railroad?”
Being asked to give the names of the business houses, he scratched
his head for awhile, and then replied—“ Well, there’ s me, to start
on.

I run a big store, own eight yokes of oxen, and shall soon have a dam and a sawmill. Then
there’ s a blacksmith shop, a post-office, a doctor, and last week over a dozen patent-right men
passed through there. In one brief year we’ ve increased from a squatter and two dogs to our present
standing, and we’ ll have a lawyer there before long.”“ I’ m afraid
we won’ t be able to come any nearer the Corners than the present survey,”
finally remarked the President.“ You won’ t! It can’ t be possible that
you mean to skip a growing place like Snags’ Corners!”“ I think we’ ll have
to.”“ Wouldn’ t come if I’ d clear you out a place in the store for
a ticket office?”“ I don’ t see how we could.”“ May be I’ d subscribe
25 dols.,” continued the delegate.“ No, we cannot change.”“ Can’ t
do it nohow?”“ No.”“ Very well,” said Mr. Snags as he put on his hat.“
If this’ ere railroad thinks it can stunt or cripple Snags’ Corners
by leaving it out in the cold it has made a big mistake.

Before I leave town to-day I’ m going to buy a windmill and a melodeon, and your old locomotives
may toot and be hanged, sir— toot and be hanged!” A NEWSPAPER WONDER. The Railway Journal, an American
newspaper, containing the latest intelligence with respect to home and foreign politics,
the money market, Congress debates, and theatrical events, is now
printed and published daily in the trains running between New York
and San Francisco.

All the news with which its columns are filled is telegraphed from
different parts of the States to certain stations on the line, there
collected by the editorial staff travelling in the train, and set
up, printed, and circulated among the subscribing passengers while
the iron horse is persistently traversing plains and valleys, crossing
rivers, and ascending mountain ranges.

Every morning the traveller may have his newspaper served up with
his coffee, and thus keep himself informed of all that is going on
in the wide world during a seven days’ journey covering over three
thousand miles of ground.

He who pays his subscription at New York, which he can do at the railway ticket-office, receives
the last copy of his paper on the summit of the Sierra Nevada. The production of a news-sheet from
a flying printing office at an elevation of some ten thousand feet above the level of the sea
is most assuredly a performance worthy of conspicuous record in journalistic annals, and highly
creditable to American enterprise. MONETARY DIFFICULTIES IN SPAIN.
Sir Arthur Helps, in his life of Mr. Brassey, remarks:—“ There were
few, if any, of the great undertakings in which Mr. Brassey embarked
that gave him so much trouble in respect of the financial arrangements
as the Spanish railway from Bilbao to Tudela.

The secretary, Mr. Tapp, thus recounts the difficulties which they had to encounter:—“‘ The
great difficulty in Spain was in getting money to pay the men for
doing the work— a very great difficulty.

The bank was not in the habit of having large cheques drawn upon it to pay money; for nearly all
the merchants kept their cash in safes in their offices, and it was
a very debased kind of money, coins composed of half copper and half
silver, and very much defaced.

You had to take a good many of them on faith.

I had to send down fifteen days before the pay day came round, to commence getting the money from the bank,
obtaining perhaps£ 2,000 or£ 3,000 a day. It was brought to the office,
recounted, and put into my safe.

In that way I accumulated a ton-and-a-half of money every month during
our busy season. He was gratified with the good order,
simplicity, and economy, which pervaded the institution. Martha Yeardley suffered much during
their journey in Devonshire, from the inclemency of the weather; and a heavy fall of snow on
the night of the 17th prevented their leaving Plymouth at the time intended. In consequence
of this, they hired a lodging, and employed themselves in visiting the Friends from house to
house, and in organising an infant school, which the Friends had long desired to see established.

On their return from Plymouth they stopped at Sidcot, where they spent some time at the Friends'
school. Here the subject of offering prizes to children came under the notice of J.Y., and
like all other subjects connected with education, engaged his serious reflection.

It would certainly be better, he says, if the basis of good actions could be laid in the children's
minds on a principle of rectitude and justice, so that they might be taught to do well from
a love of truth, and not from a fear of punishment or a hope of reward; but so long as human
nature remains unchanged, a check against the one and an incitement to the other seem to be
necessary, as a help to overcome the evil in the mind, until that which is good shall become
predominant.

They returned to Yorkshire through Warwick and Leicester, and on reviewing the journey John
Yeardley has the following reflections:--

2 mo. 22.--Almost all the meetings we attended on this journey of 800 miles are very small,
except Birmingham and Bristol, and the life of religion is low among the members in general;
which is not much to be wondered at, when we consider that many of those meetings are constituted
[chiefly] of a few individuals who have had a birthright in the Society--born members but not
new-born Christians, without the power or form of religion, no outward means to excite them
to faith and good works. If they neglect the spirit of prayer in themselves, it is not surprising
they should grow cold in love and zeal for the noble cause of truth on the earth. But in the
lowest of these [meetings] there is something alive to visit, and in going along we felt the
renewed evidence that we were in our right allotment in thus going about, endeavoring to strengthen
the things that remain; and though we have had to pass through much suffering, both outward
and inward, yet we have also experienced times of rejoicing in doing the will of our Lord and
Saviour Jesus Christ.

After the Quarterly Meeting in the Third Month they visited each of the meetings within their
own Monthly Meeting, "thinking," says J.Y., "a little pastoral care was due to our Friends
at home, seeing we are often concerned to go abroad."

In the Fifth Month they went up to the Yearly Meeting, via Lincolnshire, taking several meetings
in the way. Among the subjects which occupied Friends in their annual conference this year
was that of missions to the heathen, which, it was proposed by some, should he taken up by
the Society.

The subject, writes John Yeardley, was fully entered into, and the interest was very great.
Many Friends spoke their sentiments freely and feelingly, and the subject was taken on minute
to be revived nest year. If this important matter were brought home to each individual of us,
there would be more missionaries prepared and sent forth to labor; but we love ease and our
homes, contenting ourselves with reading and talking about what is going forward in the great
cause of religion and righteousness in the earth.

They returned home through the midland counties, visiting most of the meetings in Oxfordshire,
and in the parts adjacent; which they had been unable to do the previous year in returning
from the West.

It was comforting to us, John Yeardley says, to be with Friends in Oxfordshire, whom we had
so long thought of. Many of their meetings are small; but there are a few individuals among
them precious and improving characters, who, I believe, are under the preparing hand for greater
usefulness in the Lord's church. With these we were often dipped into near union of spirit,
which sometimes caused the divine life to rise among us to the refreshing of our spirits.

In the Sixth Month they again left home, being minded to see how the churches fared in the
eastern part of Yorkshire. The point which most interested them in this tour was Scarborough,
where they were attracted both by the town itself and by the little society of Friends. "It
felt to us," says J.Y., "very much like a home. We lodged at Elizabeth Rowntree's, a sweet
resting-place." (7 mo. 4.)

At the same time that they reported to their Monthly Meeting the attention they had paid to
this service, they received its sanction to undertake a journey in Wales.

It is truly humbling to us, writes John Yeardley, in describing this occasion, thus to have
to expose ourselves, poor and weak as we are; but the cause is not our own, but is in the hands
of our great Lord and Master. May he help us! (7 mo. 19.)

They left home on the 7th of the Eighth Month, and spent the 11th at Coalbrookdale, in the
company of Barnard Dickinson and his wife. From thence Samuel Hughes accompanied them as guide
into Wales, and continued with them a week.

He proved, says J.Y., a most efficient helper in this wild country, knowing the roads well,
and he was kind and attentive to us and our horse. The stages are long and hilly, and we are
often obliged to go many miles round the mountains to make our way from one place to another.
The road to Pales is over the moors; we scarcely saw a house for miles, except here and there
a little cot, on a plot of ground obtained as a grant to encourage industry. These little dwellings
were generally surrounded by a few acres of well-cultivated land enclosed from the moor. It
is much to be regretted that the plan of cottage culture is not more generally promoted; wherever
I see it practised I view it with pleasure, as tending to increase the comforts of the poor.

On the 19th they attended the Half-year's Meeting at Swansea. A Committee of the Yearly Meeting
was present. Elizabeth Dudley was also there, with a certificate for religious service; and
she and John and Martha Yeardley, finding that the errand on which they were come was the same,
resolved to join company and travel together through South and North Wales. They were accompanied
throughout the journey by Robert and Jane Eaton of Bryn-y-Mor.

As there are very few meetings of Friends in Wales, the chief part of their service was beyond
the limits of the Society. They met with great openness in many places from the Methodists
and other preachers and their congregations. From the notes which John Yeardley made of their
religious labors in this journey, we select several passages.

9 mo. 13. Aberystwith.--Our first object was to inquire for a place of meeting. We found they
were all engaged for that evening, which detained us here a day longer than we had expected;
but this little detention enabled us to make acquaintance with two of the Independent preachers,
to whom we became much attached in gospel fellowship, A. Shadrach and his son. The father preaches
in Welsh, and the son in English. It was comforting to us to meet with two such pious, humble-minded
Christians, laboring diligently to forward the cause of religion. They kindly offered us their
chapel for the evening, and after the meeting they both expressed much satisfaction in having
been favored with such an opportunity.

9 mo. 15.--We arrived pretty early at Machynlleth, which is a clean little town. We did not
know but that we might have proceeded on our journey after having refreshed ourselves and our
horses; but, E.D. feeling much interested for the people of the town, it seemed best to have
a meeting with them. I walked out, and seeing a good meeting-house, inquired to what persuasion
of people it belonged, and found it was an Independent chapel, and that the minister lived
about a mile and a half in the country.

The prospect of being unable to make the people understand us was discouraging; for in the
streets there was nothing to be heard but Welsh. However there was no time for reasoning, it
being near twelve o'clock, and all must be arranged by seven in the evening. After some difficulty
we found the preacher, a kind-hearted pious man, who readily granted his chapel, and undertook
to act as interpreter should occasion require. This was the only place where we adopted the
vulgar mode of giving notice by the town-crier, so common on all occasions in this country;
but the time was short, and many of the people were not able to read our English notices, which
we generally filled up for the purpose.

The meeting was pretty fully attended, and the people were mostly quiet, considering there
were many who could not understand. When E.D. sat down the minister repeated in substance what
she had said; for, not being used to speak through an interpreter, she declined his giving
sentence by sentence. When he had done, I felt something press on my mind towards the poorer
classes present, who I was sure could not understand English: so I stepped down from the pulpit,
and placing myself by the minister, requested he would render for me a few sentences as literally
as he could. This he did kindly, and, I believe, faithfully, to the relief of my mind. He then
addressed a few words on his own account to the assembly and dismissed them. We regretted the
want of the native language, as we could not have the same command over the meeting as would
otherwise have been the case.

At Barmouth, instead of convening the people to hear the word, they had to exercise a Christian
gift of a different kind--the gift of spiritual judgment.

9 mo. 19.--On entering Barmouth we thought of a meeting with the inhabitants; but on feeling
more closely at the subject the way did not appear clear; there was something which we could
neither see nor feel through. The virtues of a good magistrate undo a world of mischief, and,
because Nature works with rectitude, seem vastly more potent than
the acts of bad governors, which are ever tempered by the good-nature
in the people, and the incessant resistance which fraud and violence
encounter.

The acts of good governors work at a geometrical ratio, as one midsummer day seems to repair
the damage of a year of war. October, November, December will have passed over beating hearts
and plotting brains: then the hour will strike, and all men of African descent who have faculty
enough to find their way to our lines are assured of the protection
of American law.

It is by no means necessary that this measure should be suddenly marked by any signal results
on the negroes or on the Rebel masters. The force of the act is that it commits the country to
this justice,-- that it compels the innumerable officers, civil, military,
naval, of the Republic to range themselves on the line of this equity.

It draws the fashion to this side. It is not a measure that admits of being taken back. Done,
it cannot be undone by a new Administration. For slavery overpowers the disgust of the moral
sentiment only through immemorial usage. It cannot be introduced as an improvement of the nineteenth
century. This act makes that the lives of our heroes have not been sacrificed in vain. It
makes a victory of our defeats.

Our hurts are healed; the health of the nation is repaired. With a victory like this, we can
stand many disasters. It does not promise the redemption of the black race: that lies not with
us: but it relieves it of our opposition. The President by this act has paroled all the slaves in America;
they will no more fight against us; and it relieves our race once
for all of its crime and false position.

The first condition of success is secured in putting ourselves right. We have recovered ourselves
from our false position, and planted ourselves on a law of Nature.

The Government has assured itself of the best constituency in the
world: every spark of intellect, every virtuous feeling, every religious
heart, every man of honor, every poet, every philosopher, the generosity
of the cities, the health of the country, the strong arms of the mechanics,
the endurance of farmers, the passionate conscience of women, the
sympathy of distant nations,-- all rally to its support.

Of course, we are assuming the firmness of the policy thus declared. It must not be a paper
proclamation. We confide that Mr. Lincoln is in earnest, and, as he has been slow in making
up his mind, has resisted the importunacy of parties and of events
to the latest moment, he will be as absolute in his adhesion.

Not only will he repeat and follow up his stroke, but the nation will add its irresistible strength.
If the ruler has duties, so has the citizen. In times like these, when the nation is imperilled,
what man can, without shame, receive good news from day to day, without giving good news of himself?
What right has any one to read in the journals tidings of victories, if he has not bought them
by his own valor, treasure, personal sacrifice, or by service as
good in his own department?

With this blot removed from our national honor, this heavy load lifted off the national heart,
we shall not fear henceforward to show our faces among mankind. We shall cease to be hypocrites
and pretenders, but what we have styled our free institutions will
be such.

In the light of this event the public distress begins to be removed. What if the brokers'quotations
show our stocks discredited, and the gold dollar costs one hundred and twenty-seven cents?
These tables are fallacious.

Every acre in the Free States gained substantial value on the twenty-second of September. The cause
of disunion and war has been reached, and begun to be removed.

Every man's house-lot and garden are relieved of the malaria which the purest winds and the
strongest sunshine could not penetrate and purge. The territory of the Union shines to-day with
a lustre which every European emigrant can discern from far: a sign of inmost security and permanence.
Is it feared that taxes will check immigration?

That depends on what the taxes are spent for.

If they go to fill up this yawning Dismal Swamp, which engulfed armies and populations, and
created plague, and neutralized hitherto all the vast capabilities of this continent,-- then this
taxation, which makes the land wholesome and habitable, and will
draw all men unto it, is the best investment in which property-holder
ever lodged his earnings.

Whilst we have pointed out the opportuneness of the Proclamation, it remains to be said that
the President had no choice.

He might look wistfully for what variety of courses lay open to him: every line but one was
closed up with fire. This one, too, bristled with danger, but through it was the sole safety.
The measure he has adopted was imperative. It is wonderful to see the unseasonable senility of
what is called the Peace party, through all its masks, blinding their eyes to the main feature of
the war, namely, its inevitableness. The war existed long before the cannonade of Sumter, and could
not be postponed. It might have begun otherwise or elsewhere, but war was in the minds and
bones of the combatants, it was written on the iron leaf, and you might as easily dodge gravitation.
If we had consented to a peaceable secession of the Rebels, the divided sentiment of the Border
States made peaceable secession impossible, the insatiable temper of the South made it impossible,
and the slaves on the border, wherever the border might be, were an incessant fuel to rekindle
the fire. Give the Confederacy New Orleans, Charleston, and Richmond, and they would have demanded
St. Louis and Baltimore. Give them these, and they would have insisted
on Washington.

Give them Washington, and they would have assumed the army and navy, and, through these, Philadelphia,
New York, and Boston.

It looks as if the battle-field would have been at least as large in that event as it is now. The
war was formidable, but could not be avoided. The war was and is an immense mischief, but brought with
it the immense benefit of drawing a line, and rallying the Free States to fix it impassably,-- preventing
the whole force of Southern connection and influence throughout the North from distracting
every city with endless confusion, detaching that force and reducing it to handfuls, and, in
the progress of hostilities, disinfecting us of our habitual proclivity,
through the affection of trade, and the traditions of the Democratic
party, to follow Southern leading.

These necessities which have dictated the conduct of the Federal Government are overlooked, especially
by our foreign critics. The popular statement of the opponents of the war abroad is the impossibility
of our success. "If you could add," say they, "to your strength the whole army of England,
of France, and of Austria, you could not coerce eight millions of people to come under this Government
against their will." This is an odd thing for an Englishman, a Frenchman, or an Austrian to
say, who remembers the Europe of the last seventy years,-- the condition of Italy, until 1859,--
of Poland, since 1793,-- of France, of French Algiers,-- of British Ireland, and British India.
But, granting the truth, rightly read, of the historical aphorism, that "the people always conquer,"
it is to be noted, that, in the Southern States, the tenure of land,
and the local laws, with slavery, give the social system not a democratic,
but an aristocratic complexion; and those States have shown every
year a more hostile and aggressive temper, until the instinct of self-preservation
forced us into the war.

And the aim of the war on our part is indicated by the aim of the President's Proclamation,
namely, to break up the false combination of Southern society, to destroy the piratic feature in
it which makes it our enemy only as it is the enemy of the human
race, and so allow its reconstruction on a just and healthful basis.

Then new affinities will act, the old repulsions will cease, and, the cause of war being removed,
Nature and trade may be trusted to establish a lasting peace.

We think we cannot overstate the wisdom and benefit of this act of the Government. The malignant
cry of the Secession press within the Free States, and the recent action of the Confederate Congress,
are decisive as to its efficiency and correctness of aim.

Not less so is the silent joy which has greeted it in all generous hearts, and the new hope
it has breathed into the world.

It was well to delay the steamers at the wharves, until this edict could be put on board. It will
be an insurance to the ship as it goes plunging through the sea with
glad tidings to all people.

Meantime
that ill-fated, much-injured race which the Proclamation respects will lose somewhat of the
dejection sculptured for ages in their bronzed countenance, uttered in the wailing of their
plaintive music,-- a race naturally benevolent, joyous, docile, industrious, and whose very miseries
sprang from their great talent for usefulness, which, in a more moral age, will not only defend
their independence, but will give them a rank among nations.*****
REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

History of Friedrich the Second, called Frederick the Great.

By THOMAS CARLYLE. In Four Volumes.

Vol. III. New York: Harper& Brothers. 1862. Although History flows in
a channel never quite literally dry, and for certain purposes a continuous
chronicle of its current is desirable, it is only in rare reaches,
wherein it meets formidable obstacles to progress, that it becomes
grand and impressive; and even in such cases the interest deepens
immeasurably, when some master-spirit arises to direct its energies.

The period of Frederick the Great was not one of these remarkable
passages.

It was marked, however, with the signs that precede such. Europe lay weltering and tossing in seemingly
aimless agitation, yet in real birth-throes; and the issue was momentous and memorable, namely:
The People. From the hour in which they emerged from the darkness of the French Revolution, they
have so absorbed attention that men have had little opportunity to look into the causes which forced
them to the front, and made wiser leadership thenceforth indispensable to peaceful rule. The field,
too, was repulsive with the appearance of nearly a waste place, save only that Frederick the
Second won the surname of "Great" by his action thereon. And it
may be justly averred that only to reveal his life, and perhaps that
of one other, was it worthy of resuscitation.

To do this was an appalling labor, for the skeleton thereof was scattered
through the crypts of many kingdoms; yet, by the commanding genius of
Mr. Carlyle, bone hath not only come to his bone, but they have been
clothed with flesh and blood, so that the captains of the age, and,
moreover, the masses, as they appeared in their blind tusslings, are
restored to sight with the freshness and fulness of Nature.

Although this historical review is strictly illustrative, it is altogether incomparable for vividness
and originality of presentation. The treatment of official personages is startlingly new. All
ceremony toward them gives place to a fearful familiarity, as of one who not only sees through
and through them, but oversees. Grave Emptiness and strutting Vanity,
found in high places, are mocked with immortal mimicry. Indeed, those
of the "wind-bag" species generally, wherever they appear in important
affairs, are so admirably exposed, that we see how they inevitably
lead States to disaster and leave them ruins, while their pompous and
feeble methods of doing it are so put as to call forth the contemptuous
smiles, yea, the derisive laughter, of all coming generations.

In fine, the alternate light and shade, which so change the aspect and make the mood of human
nature, were never so touched in before; and therefore it is the saddest and the merriest story
ever told. In bold and splendid contrast with this picture of national life flow the life and fortunes
of Frederick. If the qualities of his progenitors prophesied this right royal course, his portrait,
by Pesne, shows him to have been conceived in some happy moment when Nature was in her most generous
mood. What finish of form and feature! and what apparent power to
win! Yet in what serene depths it rests, to be aroused only by some
superb challenger! No strength of thought or stress of situation seems
to have had power to line the curves of beauty. Observe, too, the
full-blown mouth, which never saw cause to set itself in order to
form or fortify a purpose.

When it is remembered that in opening manhood this prince was long imprisoned under sentence of death
for attempting to escape from paternal tyranny, and that his friend
actually died on the gallows merely for generous complicity in this
offence against the state of a king, and that neither of the terrible
facts left permanent trace on his countenance or cloud on his spirit,
it should create no surprise that nothing but the march of time was
ever visible there.

Though trained in such a school, and in the twenty-eighth year of his age when he reached the throne, he
yet gave a whole and a full heart to his subjects, and sought to guide them solely for their good.
From this purpose he never swerved; and though his somewhat too trustful methods were rapidly changed
by stern experience, his people felt more and more the consummate wisdom of his guidance, and they became
unconquerable by that truth and that faith. Almost on the first day of his reign, he invited Voltaire,
the greatest of literary heroes, the most adroit and successful assaulter of king-craft and priest-craft
that ever lived, to his capital and to his palace; and in a most friendly spirit consulted him
on the advancement of art and letters, exhausted him by the touchstone of superior capacity, and even
fathomed him by a glance so keen and so covert that it always took, but never gave, and then complimented
him home in so masterly a manner that he was lured into the fond belief that he had found a disciple.
A mind so capacious and so reticent is always an enigma to near observers.
Hence it is that the transcendently great may be more truly known
to after-ages than to any contemporary.

By the patient research and profound insight of Mr. Carlyle, Frederick the Great is thus
rising into clear and perennial light. What deserts of dust he wrought in, and what a jungle of false
growths he had to clear away, Dryasdust and Smelfungus mournfully hint and indignantly moralize,--
under such significant names does this new Rhadamanthus reveal the real sins of mankind, and
deliver them over to the judgment of their peers. Frederick, indeed, is among them, but not
of them. The way in which he is made to come forth from the mountains of smoke and cinders remaining of his
times is absolutely marvellous. As some mighty and mysterious necromancer quickens the morbid
imagination to supernatural sight, and for a brief moment reveals through rolling mist and portentous
cloud the perfect likeness of the one longed for by the rapt gazer, so Frederick is restored
in this biography for the perpetual consolation and admiration of all coming heroes. In comprehension
and judgment of the actions and hearts of men, and in vividness of writing, not that which shook the
soul of Belshazzar in the midst of his revellers was more powerful, or more sure of approval
and fulfilment. It is not only one of the greatest of histories and of biographies, but nothing
in literature, from any other pen, bears any likeness to it. It is
truly a solitary work,-- the effort of a vast and lonely nature to
find a meet companion among the departed.

1. 2. The Golden Hour. By MONCURE D. CONWAY, Author of "The Rejected Stone." Impera parendo. Boston: Ticknor&
Fields. 1862. Seldom have political writings found such accomplices in events as these, whose final
criticism appears in the great Proclamation of the President. Two campaigns
have been the bloody partisans of this earnest pen: the impending
one will cheerfully undertake its final vindication.

Not because these two little books stand sole and preëminent, the isolated prophecies of an
all but rejected truth, nor because they have created the opinion
out of which the President gathers breath for his glorious words.

Mr. Conway would hardly claim more, we think, than to have spoken frankly what the people felt,
the same people which hailed the early emancipationing instinct of General Fremont. We see the
fine sense of Mr. Emerson in his advice to hitch our wagon to a star, but there must be a well-seasoned
vehicle, with a cunning driver to thrust his pin through the coupling, one not apt to jump out
when the axles begin to smoke. At the first overt act of this great Rebellion, anti-slavery men
perceived the absurdity of resisting a symptom instead of attacking the disease. They proclaimed
the old-fashioned truth, that an eruption can be rubbed back again into the system, not only without rubbing
out its cause, but at the greatest hazard to the system, which is loudly announcing its difficulty
in this cutaneous fashion.

But Northern politicians saw that the inflammatory blotches made
the face of the country ugly and repulsive: their costliest preparations
have been well rubbed in ever since, without even yet reducing the
rebellious red; on the contrary, it flamed out more vigorously than
ever.

Their old practice was not abandoned, the medicines only were changed. The wash of compromise was
replaced by the bath of blood.

And into that dreadful color the tears and agony of a million souls have been distilled, as if they would
make a mixture powerful enough to draw out all our trouble by the pores. The very skin of the
Rebellion chafed and burned more fiercely with all this quackery. If Slavery is our disease, the
Abolition of Slavery is our remedy. Our bayonets only cupped and scored the patient, our war-measures
in and out of Congress only worked dynamically against other war-measures far more dogged and
desperate than our own. The sentence of Emancipation is the specific whose operation will be vital,
by effecting an alteration in the system, and soon annihilating that condition of the blood
which feeds our fevers and rushes in disgusting blotches to the face. "No,"-- a Northern minority
still says,-- "every fever has its term; only watch your self-limiting disease, keep the patient
from getting too much hurt during his delirium, and he will be on'Change
before long."

No doubt of that. He loves to be on'Change; of all the places in the country,
out of his own patriarchal neighborhoods, not even Saratoga and Newport
were ever so exhilarating to him as Wall Street and State Street,
and he longs to be well enough to infest his whilom haunts.

Slavery is a self-limited disease, for it suffers nothing but itself to impose its limits.
In that sense the North would soon have his old crony on the pavement again, with one yellow finger
in his button-hole, and another nervously playing at a trigger behind the back. For the North
was paying roundly in men and dollars to renew that pleasurable intercourse, to get the dear old
soul out again as little dilapidated as possible, with as much of the old immunities and elasticities
preserved as an attack so violent would allow. The President said to the deputation of Quakers, "Where
the Constitution cannot yet go, a proclamation cannot." This was accepted by a portion of the North
as another compact expression of Presidential wisdom. It was the common sense, curtly and neatly
put, upon which our armies waited, and for whose cold and bleached utterances our glorious
young men were sent home from Washington by rail in coffins, red
receipts of Slavery to acknowledge Northern indecision.

It was the kind of common sense which, after every family-tomb has got its tenant, and wives,
mothers, sisters tears to be their bread and meat continually, would have jogged on'Change snugly
some fine morning arm in arm with the murderer of their noble dead. For, though neither the
Constitution nor a proclamation can quite yet go down practically into Slavery, Slavery might
come up here to find the Constitution in its old place at the Potomac ferry, and without a toll
or pike to heed. It seemed so sensible to say, that, where one document cannot go, another cannot!
And yet it depends upon what is in the document. If the Constitution could go South now, it would
be the last thing we should want to send, at this stage of the national
malady.

It contains the immunity out of which the malady has flamed.

Its very neutrality is the best protection which a conquered South
could have, and a moral triumph that would richly compensate it for
a military defeat. Would it not have been quite as sagacious, and
equally aphoristic, if the President had said, "Where a proclamation
cannot go, the Constitution never can again"?

He has said it! And if the proclamation goes first, the Constitution
will follow to bless and to save.

Both of these little books of Mr. Conway are devoted to showing the necessity
for a proclamation of emancipation, as simple justice, as military policy,
as mercy to the South, to put us right at home and abroad, to destroy
at once the cause of the Republic's shame and sorrow.

He combats various objections: such as that a proclamation of that nature would send home
instantly the pro-slavery officers and men who are now fighting merely to enhance their own importance
or to restore the state of things before the war: that a proclamation
of emancipation, finding its way, as it surely would, to the heart
of every slave, would breed insurrections and all the horrors of a
servile war: that such a document would not be worth the paper which
it blotted, until the military power of the South was definitively
broken: that it would convert the Border States into active foes,
and make them rush by natural proclivity into the bosom of Secession.

Mr. Conway disposes well of a great deal of trash which even good Republican papers, upon which we have
hitherto relied, but can do so no longer, have vented under all these heads of objections. He writes
with such enthusiasm, and is so plainly a dear lover and worshipper of the justice which
can alone exalt this nation, that we are carried clear over the wretched
half-republicanism which has been trying all the year to say eminently
sound and unexceptionable things, we forget the deceit and expediency
whose leaded columns have been more formidable than those which rolled
the tide of war back again to the Potomac.

Great is the animating power of faith, when faithfully brought home to the universal instinct for righteousness.
Mr. Conway was born and bred among slaveholders, knows them and their institution, knows the slave,
and his moral condition, and his expectations: so that these inspiriting
prophecies of his are more than those of a lively and talented pamphleteer.


7 mo. 2.--We had a long walk to the Rue St. Maur, to meet by appointment our kind friend De
Pressensé to visit the schools for mutual instruction. At this season of the year the children
are more busy with their parents than usual; but in winter there are 200 boys, 200 girls, and
200 children in the infant school, with an evening school for adults. Scripture extracts are
made use of, and also the Scriptures themselves. We were struck with the quiet and good order
of all these schools. I have seen very few in England where the same stillness is observable.
With the exception of some three or four, all the children are Roman Catholics; and on First-days,
particularly in winter, the room is filled with Roman Catholic men and women, mostly parents
of the children, who come to hear them examined in the Scriptures and to receive instruction
themselves. Our conductor showed us the boys' gardens. On the walls were grapes hanging in
large bunches, belonging to the master. The boys are so far from stealing them, that if they
find any on the ground, they take them to him. Of the children who attend at the school, forty-six
are provided with bed, board, and clothing, at a neighboring establishment.

One of the most interesting men with whom J. and M.Y. became acquainted was Pastor Audebez.

He was, say they, formerly minister at Bordeaux, but received a strong impression that it was
his religious duty to come to Paris. Soon after he left Bordeaux, a great awakening took place
in that neighborhood under the ministry of his successor, while with himself at Paris all seemed
darkness and discouragement. This induced him to think he had done wrong in removing, and he
was much distressed; but as he persevered in doing what presented as his duty, his way for
usefulness in this great city opened in a remarkable manner. He first opened the chapel in
the Taitbout, and then one in the Faubourg du Temple, where his labors have been crowned with
success. He told us with great simplicity that he never premeditated or wrote his sermons,
but after reading a portion of Scripture proceeded to speak from what he felt to impress his
mind at the time. He said some of the ministers considered their discourse before delivering
it, and he believed their mode of preaching was also blessed. Being accustomed to arrange their
thoughts in methodical order, perhaps such might not perform so well in any other way, and
the people were used to it; but he preferred speaking from a more spontaneous spring of thought,
though not so well arranged as to theological order.

We felt much inclined to hear him for ourselves, and attended in the Rue St. Maur on First-day
evening; and we have this testimony to bear,--that we heard the gospel preached to the poor.
He first read the 25th Psalm, and then part of the Epistle to the Romans, which formed the
basis of his exhortation. It reminded me of [what I have read of] the preaching of the early
Christians. My very heart went with his impressive exhortation to believe in the Lord Jesus
as the only means of salvation, and of the necessity of bringing forth fruits unto holiness.

7 mo. 5.--Pastor Grandpierre came to pay us a visit with four of his missionary students. We
had a precious religious opportunity with them. The Pastor expressed his belief that the power
and presence of the Saviour had been evidently felt among us. The young men were much tendered;
one of them was a grandson of the late Pastor Oberlin, and had been sensibly affected by what
Stephen Grellet had said in a meeting at his father's place of worship in the Ban de la Roche.
Three of the young men who were in the institution at our last visit to Paris are now in Africa.
We admire the principle on which this establishment is conducted; the inmates are not sent
out unless they believe it to be their duty to go; if this be not the case at the expiration
of their term, they return home.

On the 7th John Yeardley, accompanied by Joseph Grellet, brother of Stephen Grellet, visited
the Sabbath-school in the Rue St. Maur. Martha Yeardley was indisposed and unable to leave
the house.

When the classes had finished, says J.Y., De Pressensé proposed to give a lecture on a subject
from the Old Testament, and bestowed great pains to make it clear to the infant capacities
of the children. I had intimated to my worthy friend a desire for liberty to express what might
arise in my mind when he had done, which was most readily granted, and after I had spoken to
the children, there seemed great liberty in addressing the teachers, parents and young persons
present. There was much seriousness the whole time and a precious sense of divine love was
over us. Our kind friend, J. Grellet, interpreted for me in an impressive and clear manner.

The name of Mark Wilks has been for many years identified with the cause of evangelical religion
in Paris. John Yeardley had an interview with him, and makes an interesting note in his Diary
regarding his opinions on the state of religious parties at this period.

7 mo. 9.--This morning I had an interview with Mark Wilks. He received me very cordially, and,
as I expected, I found him full of religious intelligence; he is just returned from a tour
in Switzerland, and speaks encouragingly of the state of the Christian church in general. He
has resided in Paris fifteen years, and of course seen many changes. He assured me that the
arm of infidelity is weakening; nothing like the same exertion is made to spread the vile doctrine.
The fact is, in some degree, the people are too indifferent to trouble themselves about it,
and would not spend a son for its promotion; on the other hand, zealous Christians are doing
all in their power to promote the spread of gospel truth.

On the 15th John S. Mollet, who had arrived in Paris after them, accompanied J. and M.Y. to
Madame d'Aublay's.

We met, they say, several of her relations who professed to be Catholics, but were rather of
the philosophical school. They were interested in the conversation, though nothing of a religious
nature occurred. Madame d'Aublay has distributed many of our books and tracts. The next day
she took us to see more of her friends, much of the same character. We have a hope that our
drawing some of these to the really Christian characters may do good, since each class expressed
surprise to hear us speak to them of the other. It will be no small satisfaction if any of
our Society here should be like the mortar to bind parties together, and weaken prejudice,
that the one true knowledge may increase.

21st--Attended the chapel at the Taitbout this morning. Heard a discourse by Pastor Grandpierre;
he preaches the gospel in its purity, with much of the right unction. We did not feel out of
our place in being present, and I trust it may have its use both on ourselves and others. This
kind of Christian liberty seems to open our way among the people. In the evening we had quite
a large meeting in our room; several of the attenders at the Taitbout coming in, together with
the Friends in Paris. It was, adds John Yeardley, a precious tendering time, and I trust strength
was given to preach the gospel; the sick and afflicted were not forgotten by my M. Y. In supplication.

By "the sick" in the foregoing passage was probably intended Rachel, wife of Dr. Waterhouse
of Liverpool, and daughter of David and Abigail Dockray. This young Friend, who was ill in
the neighborhood of Paris, was about to be removed to England, but at the very time when the
carriage was at the door she was struck with paralysis. This happened two days before the meeting
just described, and J. and M.Y. had hastened to offer their sympathy and aid to her afflicted
husband and mother. They deferred their departure from Paris in order to remain with the family,
and they both took turns in assisting to watch, by the bed-side of the sufferer. She survived
only a few days, and expired, in the hope and peace of the gospel, the day after they quitted
the city.

We may conclude the narrative of this interesting visit to Paris with a short reflection by
Martha Yeardley. 

"'Does she mean to stay me?'I said, and even then my will rose up."

I bent to the oars; but whilst I had watched her, my boat had been rapidly filling. I was forced
to stay. My feet were already in the waves. Right across my pathway
she came, close up to my filling boat.

"Her eyes were in the shadow, the moon being behind, but her voice
rang out these words:--"'Mr. Axtell, you're committing a great sin.

You're putting your own life in peril. You're killing your mother. I have come to stay you. Will you
come on shore?'"I only looked at her.

When I found voice, it was to ask,--"'Who are you?'"'Who I am doesn't
matter now.

Drowning men mustn't ask questions'; and, putting one oar within
my boat, now more than half filled, she drew her own to its side,
and said,--"'Come in.'"'Conquered by a woman,'I thought.'Never!'--
and I began to search for the cup, that I might give back to the sea
its intruding contents."

I had left it in the other boat. "'Conquered by thine own sin,'said the young girl, still holding
fast to my boat."'Not so easily, fairy, or whoe'er thou art,'I said;
for I saw that her boat was well furnished with both bailing-bowl
and sponge, and I reached out for them, saying,'I'm going on the track,
farther out.'"She divined my intent, and quick as was my thought were
her two hands; she cast both bowl and sponge into the sea."'Mr. Axtell,'she
said;'there's a power in the world greater than your own.

The sooner you yield, the less you'll feel the thorns.

Your mother, on the shore, is suffering agonies for you. Will you come into this boat, now?'"The
boats had floated around a little, and had changed places.

I looked into her eyes; there was nothing there that said,'I'm trying
to conquer you.'There was something in them that I had never seen
made visible on earth before,-- something radiant, with a might of
right, that made me yield.

She saw that I was coming.

I lifted my feet out of the inches of water that had nearly filled it,
put my oars across her tiny boat, and, leaving my own River-Ribbon
to its fate, I entered that wherein my preserver had come out.

I took
the oars from her passive hands; she went to the front of the boat
and left me master of the small ship.

I turned its prow homeward. My preserver sat motionless, her eyes in
the moon, for aught of notice she took of me.

I was going toward the river; she bade me keep to the bay-shore, at the right. I obeyed. No more
words were spoken until we were almost to land.

I saw a little bulb afloat. The boat went near. I put out my oar and drew it in. It was the althea-bud
that I had offered to the sea-nymphs."'The mermaids refuse my offering,'I said;'will you accept
it?'-- and I handed it, dripping with salt-water, to the fairy who sat so silently before me.
"She took it, pointed to a little sheltered cove between two outstanding ledges of rock, and said,--"'This
is boatie's home,-- see if you can guide her safely in.'"The keel grated on the gravelly beach,
the boat struck home. The young girl did not wait for me, she landed first, and, handing me a
tiny key, said,--"'Draw my boat up out of reach of the tide, make it fast, please,'-- and she sped
away into the dreamy darkness of the land, whose shadows the moon did not yet reach, leaving
me alone on the shore. "I obeyed her orders implicitly, and then followed. It was not far from this
sheltered cove that I met those with whom I had come. My mother was sitting upon one of the
sea-shore rocks, passive, but stony.

The young girl had just been speaking to her, she must have been saying
that'I was come back,'but my mother had not heeded. It was only in sight
that her reason came, but, oh! such a deluge of gladness came to
her when she saw me!"'I was dying,'she said;'you've come back to save
me, Abraham.'"My father did not speak then, he lifted my mother from
off the stone, and together we three walked home.

Lettie lingered, the shadow with her. Was that the young girl? I could not quite discern." Mr.
Axtell stopped in his narration, walked out of the village of Dead
Percivals, and to his mother's new-made grave.

He came back soon.

"Miss Percival," he said, "two days ago you said,'it was the strangest thing that ever you saw
man do, to dig his mother's grave.'It was a work begun long ago;
the first stroke was that August night; it is nearly nineteen years
ago.

What do you think of it now?" "As I thought then, Mr. Axtell." He stood near me now. He went
on. "That young girl saved my life that night, Miss Percival. Ere we reached home, a violent,
sudden thunder-storm came down, with wind and rain, and terrible
strokes of lightning.

We took shelter in another house than home. Lettie and my preserver followed." Another long pause
came, a gathering together of the forces of his nature, typical of the still hotness of the August
night of which he spoke, and after the ominous rest he emitted ponderous words. They came
like crackles of rattling electricity. I could taste it. "Miss Percival, look at me one moment."
I obeyed. "Do I look like a murderer?" "I don't know."

"Don't turn your eyes away; do you know what certain words in this
world mean?"

"Signal one, and I will answer." He looked so leonic that I felt the least bit in the world
like running away, but decided to stay, as he was just within my pathway of escape. "Do you know
what it is, what it means, when a human soul calls out from its highest
heights to another mortal,'Thou art mine'?"

I do not think he expected an answer, but I answered a round, full, truthful, "No." "Then let
it be the theme of thanksgiving," he said.

"That fair young girl is here now. I feel her sacred presence. She does not save me from my imperious
will." Do you know, Miss Percival, "he suddenly resumed," do you
know that you are here with Abraham Axtell, a man who has destroyed
two lives: one slowly, surely, through years of suffering; the other,
oh! the other-- by a flash from God's wrath, and for eighteen years
my soul has cried out to her,'Thou art mine,'and yet there is no response
on earth, there can be none?

Would you know the name of my preserver that night, come, "-- and,
bending down, he offered his hand to assist me in rising.

I had no faith in this man's murderousness, whatever he might have
done.

He led me around to the head-stone of the grave which he had asked
my knowledge of.

Before I could see, he passed his hand across my eyes: how cold it was!" When you see the name recorded
here, "he said," you will know who saved me that August night, whom
my terrible will destroyed, drinking her young life up in one fell
cup.

"His hand was withdrawn for one moment; my sight was blinded with
the cold pressure on my eyes; then I read,-- MARY, DAUGHTER OF JULIUS
AND MARY PERCIVAL, DIED AUGUST 30th, 1843, AGED 17 YEARS."

My sister, "I said" Your sister, whom I killed. "" Ere I was old enough to know her. "" Have you
one drop of mercy for him who destroyed your sister? "he asked,-- and his haughty will was suffused
in pleading. I thought of the third figure in the celestial picture,
as it gazed upon the outstretched hand, and I said,--"

God hath not made me your judge; why should I refuse mercy?

"A flash of intuition came.

The young girl, whose portrait was in the house of the Axtells, whose
face had been next my mother's, who asked me to do something for her
on the earth,-- could they all be manifestations of Mary?"

Who painted the portrait in your house?

"I asked." My will, "he said;" I am no artist. "" Is it like Mary?
"" Yes. ""

Then I have this day seen her.

"He looked up, great tears falling from his eyes, and asked,--" Where? "I took him to the gallery
of the clouds, and showed him my vision, and repeated the words spoken
to me up there, the words for him only,-- the others were full of
mystery still.

He held seemingly no part therein." Will a murderer's prayer add one ray of joy to the angel
who has come out on the sea to save me,-- me, twice saved, oh! why?

"-- and Mr. Axtell laid his hand upon my head in blessing."

Twice saved, "I said," that the third salvation may be Christ's. "Solemnly came the" Amen "from
his lips, tremulous as the bridge of light he had once passed over."

Good-bye, Mr. Axtell; I shall fulfil Mary's wish for you, if you will let me; "and I offered him
my hand for this second parting: the first had been when he went out alone
to his mother's burial. He looked at it, as he then had done, uncomprehending,
and said only,--" Will I let you? "He gathered up the cushion, and
carried it to the church.

I closed the gate that shut in this silent city, and went to the parsonage.***** The sun had
gone down,-- the night was coming on.

I found Aaron pacing the verandah with impatient steps. He asked where I had been. I told him."
It is very well that you are going so soon, "he said,--" you are
getting decidedly ghostly.

Will you take a walk with me? "I was thankful for the occasion.

As might have been expected, Aaron chose the way that led to the solemn old house. I was amused."
Where are you going? "I questioned." To inquire after our early-morning
patient, "he said."

And not to see Mrs. Aaron Wilton? "Aaron looked the least mite retributive, as he said,--" Anna, there
are mysteries in life.

"" As, why Aaron was chosen before Moses, "I could not help suggesting.

Sophie had had an opportunity of being Mrs. Moses, instead of Mrs.
Aaron."

Sophie's wise; you are not, Anna, I fear.

""

Your fear may be the beginning of my wisdom, Aaron: I hope so.

"With the exception of a return to the subject on which Aaron had questioned me at breakfast, and
on which he elicited no further information from me, nothing of interest
occurred until we were within the place that held Sophie's pearly
self.

She had been a shower of sunshine, letting fall gold and silver drops through all the house. I
saw them, heard their sweet glade-like music rippling everywhere,
the moment that I went in.

Mr. Axtell was pacing the hall in the evening twilight, and the little
of lamp-lustre that was shed into it.

He looked passively calm, heroically enduring, as we went past him. From his eyes came scintillations
of a joy whose root is not in our planet. He simply said,--" Mrs. Wilton is with my sister; she
will be glad to see you. "We went on.

Sophie had made a very nest of repose in the sick-room.

Miss Axtell looked so comfortable, so untired of life, so changed
from the first glimpse I had had of her, when I thought her face might
be such as would be found under Dead-Sea waves.

There was no more of the anxious unrest.

She spoke to Mr. Wilton, thanking him for the" good gift, "she named
Sophie, that he had lent to her.

Miss Lettie called me to her.

She wished to say something to me only. I bent my head to listen."

I am ill, "she said,--" better just now, but I feel that it will
be weeks before I shall leave this place; it is good for me to be
here, but this troubles me,-- I don't like to think that I must take
care of it; will you guard it sacredly for me?-- and the letter of
last night, add it to the others.

"She gave me a small package, carefully closed, and I saw that it
was sealed. From her manner, I fancied it was to be known to me alone, and,
concealing it, I said,--"

I will keep it securely for you.

"Sophie came playfully up, and said,--" Now, Anna, I'm empress here; no secret negotiations to
overthrow my power. "" I'm just going to say good-bye to Miss Axtell,
"I said," for I am going home to-morrow; "and I told her of the letter
from father, that I had received.

Sophie got up a charming storm of regret and wrath, neither at my
father for sending for me, nor at myself for going, but for the mysterious
third personality that created the need for my departure.

Miss Lettie seemed to regret my coming absence still more than Sophie." I wanted you so much,
"she said;" if I had only had you long ago, life would have been
changed, "she whispered again, as Sophie turned to listen to some
pretty nonsense that the grave minister poured into her ears through
those windings of softly purplish hair."

Will you make me one promise, only one? "said Miss Axtell. I hesitated,-- for promises are my
religious fear, I do not like to make promises. They are like mile-stones to a thunder-storm.
They note distances when the spirit is anxious only to cycle time
and space.

She looked so earnest, so persuasive, that I yielded, and said that"
consistency should be my only requirement.

"" It
is not so immensely inconsistent, my Anemone; it is only that I want
you to come back again.

Two weeks will satisfy your father. Will you come to me on the twenty-fifth of March? "" What for? "with
my awkward persistency in questioning, I asked."

Why, because I want to see you,-- I wish you to write a letter for
me,-- and more than all, I want an advocate.

"I, smiling at the triplet of occasions, promised to come, if consistent. Sophie was going home.
She came up to drop a few last cheery words, to fall into the coming
hours of night."

You see how you've spoiled me by kindness, Mrs. Wilton, "Miss Lettie
said."

I presume still further: I would like to see old Chloe; it is a long, long time since I've seen
her. Would you let her come?

"Sophie said that" it would renew Chloe's youth; she certainly would send her. "Good-byes were
spoken, and we went down.

Mr. Axtell was still treading the hall below.

He thanked Sophie for her kindness to Miss Lettie, shook hands genially
with Aaron, looked at me, and we were gone.

I carried Miss Lettie's message to Chloe.

She lifted up those great African orbs of hers as she might have
done to the Mountains of the Moon in her native land."

Now the heavens be praised!

"said the honest soul,--" what for can that icy lady want to see old Chloe? "I had carried the message
under cover of one from my own heart.

I knew that Chloe had lived with my mother until she died.

I knew that she must know something regarding Mary, my sister, to
whom, in all my life, I had scarcely given one thought, who died ere
I was wise enough to know her.

And so I began by asking,--" Am I like my sister who died, Chloe? "She brought
back her eyes from gazing upon the lunar mountains." I don't know's you
are'xactly; but somehow you did look like her, up-stairs to-day, when
you had them white things tied on your head.

"" Were you here when she died? "I asked." Oh, yes! "-- old Chloe closed her eyes,--" it is
one of the blessed things Chloe's Lord will let her'member, up there;
"and Chloe wiped her eyes, in memoriam."

I don't
remember her, "I said." No, how should you? you were wee little then.
"" What made her die, Chloe? ""

I reckon't was because the angels wanted her more'n me, Miss Anna. "" Was she sick, Chloe? "" How queer
you questions, Miss Anna!

Of course she was sick; she drooped in the August heat; they didn't
think she was very sick; the master gave her some medicine one night,
and left her sleeping, quiet as a lamb, and before morning came she
went to heaven.

"" Who was the master, Chloe? "" Why, you is getting stupid-like,
child!

Honey darling, don't you know that Master Percival, your father, was my master ever so many years? "--
and she began notating them upon her fingers. I interrupted the mathematical
calculation by telling Chloe that three people were waiting for their
tea."

Two of'em is my dear childers, "said Chloe,-- who never would accept Aaron, even with all his
goodness, into her heart; and she moved about with accelerated velocity
in her daily orbit.

What could Mr. Axtell have meant by saying that he had killed Mary,
who, Chloe had assured me, died peaceably in her father's house?

After
disturbing the equilibrium of thought-realm, and nearly giving my
mind a new axis of revolution, I decided to think no more of it. I could
not, would not, believe that Abraham Axtell had gone up any Moriah
of sacrifice, and been permitted to let fall the knife upon his victim.
His life must have been a dream, an illusion; he only wanted awakening
to existence.

And the memory of my Sabbath-morning's vision dwelt with me, and
the voice that speaketh, filling the soul" as a sea-shell is with
murmuring, "said," Your finger will awaken him.

"And I looked down at my two passive hands, and asked," Which one
of them?

"And the murmuring voice startled me with the answer," Two are required,--
one of reconciliation, the other of forgiveness.

"Whereupon I lifted up the ten that Nature gave, and said," Take
them all, if need be.

"----"

Tea is ready, "said Aaron, peeping in, his face alive with satisfied muscles, playing too merry a tune
of joy, I thought, for a grave minister."

Sophie's a magician, "I thought for the thousandth time, as, for
the millionth, Aaron looked at her sitting so demurely regal at his spread
table."

What would these two good people say, "I asked myself, in thinking,"
if they knew all that I have learned in my visit, not yet a week
long?

"-- and I ran up and down in the scale of semibreves and minims that I had heard, with the one long,
sweet trill transfusing life on earth into heavenly existence, and I felt
very wingy, very much as if I could take up the tower, standing high
and square out there, and carry it," like Loretto's chapel, through
the air to the green land, "where my spirit would go singing evermore.

I could not tell what my joy was like: not unto anything that I had
seen upon the earth; under the earth I had not yet been; only once
above it, and they were calmly celestial there.

I was turbulently joyous, and so I winged a little while around Sophie and Aaron, hummed a
good-night in Chloe's ears, and found that the canny soul was luxuriating
in the idea that the icy lady was to be thawed into the acceptance
of sundry confections which she was basketing to carry with her when
I went out."

Call me early, "I said;" you know I leave at seven o'clock. ""

I shall be up ever so early, Miss Anna; never fear for Chloe's sleeping
late to-morrow in the morning; you get ever so much,--'nuff for Chloe
and you too; good-night, honey!

"-- and Chloe went on her mission, whilst Aloes and Honey went up-stairs, past Aaron's study, and
into a room where the mysterious art of packing must be practised
for a little.

I thought of the" breadths of silver and skirts of gold "that I
had seen the Day pack away; and, inspired with the thought, fell to
folding less amberous raiment, until, my duty done, I pressed the
cover down, and locked my treasures in, for the journey of the morrow.

Then I took out my sacred
gift to guard, and, laying it before me, looked at it.

It was of dimensions scarcely
larger than the moon,-- that is, extremely variant and uncertain: to
one, a planet, larger than Jupiter, moons and all; to another, scarcely
more than a bridal ring.

So my packet was of uncertain size: undoubtedly
the tower was packed away in it, Herbert too,-- and I couldn't help
agreeing with my thought, and confessing that this was a better form
for conveyance than that I so lately had planned; so I put it safely
away, with myself, until the day should come.

The day-star had arisen in my heart.
Would it ever go down? Not whilst He who holdeth the earth in the hollow
of His hand hath me there too. Reaching out, once more, for the strong
protective fibres that had so blessed me, I wandered forth with it
into the land whose mural heights are onychites and mocha-stones of
mossy mystery.

How long I might have lingered there
I know not,-- so delicious was the fragrance and so fair the flowers,--
had not Chloe's voice broken the mocha-stones, scattering the mosses
like autumn-leaves."

Honey, I
thought I'd waken ye,-- the day is just cracking, "said Chloe, at
the door, and she asked me to open it one moment.

When I had done so, there she stood,
just as I had seen her when I bade her good-night,-- save that her basket
was void of contents." Master Abraham didn't know you was going home,
"Chloe said," or he'd have told you good-bye; and I guesses he sent what
he didn't tell, for he asked me to give you this.

"When
Chloe was gone, I opened the small package.

It was a pretty casket, made of
the margarite of the sea.

Within it lay a faded, fallen, fragmentary
thing. At first, I knew not what it could be. It was the althea-bud
that grew in the summer-time of eighteen years ago, that had been
Mary's,-- and my heart beat fast as I looked upon the silent voicefulness
that spake up to me, and said," To you, who have restored him to himself,
he offers the same tribute; "and I lifted up the iridescent, flashing
cradle of margarite, and reverently touched the ashes of althea it
held with my lips.

Afterwards they were salt,-- whether
with the saltness of the sea the bud had been baptized in, or of
the tears that I let fall, I knew not.

I folded up my good-bye from Mr. Axtell in the same precious
package that was his sister's, and, side by side, the two journeyed on
with me.***** It was seven of the clock on Monday morning when she
who said the naughty words, and the grave minister, came out to say
farewell to me.

The day's great round was nearly done ere I met my father's flowery
welcome."

My Myrtle-Vine,
I knew you'd come, "said Dr. Percival; and his long gray hair floated
out to reach me in, and his eyes, wherein all love burned iridescent,
drew me toward his heart.

My father put his arms around me, and said the sweetest words of
welcome that ever are spoken."

How
I've missed you, Anna!

"as
he drew me toward his large arm-chair, and folded me, his latest
child, to his heart.

As thus we were sitting in the silence of the
heart that needs no language, little Jeffy, my ebony-beauty boy, darted
his black head in, and reposing it for one instant against the scarcely
lighter-hued mahogany of the door, jingled out, in shells of sound,--"
He's mighty fur'ous.

It's real fun.

I guess you'd better come right up,
Dr. Percival; "and the ebon head darted off, without one word for me. Why
was it that this little omission of Jeffy's, the African boy, should
create a vacancy?

Oh! it is because Nature made me so exacting. I wanted
everybody to welcome me.

I lifted my head
from my father's shoulder, and asked, in some dismay,--" What is it,
father? "" I've gotten myself in trouble, Anna. I've let chaos into my house.
I wanted you to help me. ""

What is it? what has happened? "I hastened
to inquire." Only a hospital patient that I was foolish enough to bring away.
I heartily wish that he was back again, "said my father; and he put me from
him to go, in obedience to the summons. I was about to follow him, but
he waved me back as I went into the hall, and he went on. I heard
the ring of a low, frenzied laugh, as I began unwrapping from my journey.
My casket of treasures I had committed to bands for keeping. Now I laid
it down, and, folding up my protective robes, I had just gone to try my father's
easy-chair, alone, when Jeffy's ebon head struck in again." I didn't
see ye afore, Miss Anna. I'so mighty glad you've come; "and Jeffy
atoned for his former omission by his present joy." How is he? "I
questioned Jeffy, as if I knew all the antecedents of the case perfectly."
Oh, he's jolly to-night. I think Master Percival might have let me stay
to see the fun; "and Jeffy's eyes rolled to and fro in their orbits,
as if anxious to strike against some wandering comet."

Is tea over? "I asked." No, miss. Master said
he'd wait for you. I'll go and tell that you're here; "and Jeffy took
himself off, eager for action.

He was not long gone." It's all
ready, waiting a bit for master. He can't come down just this minute,
"said Jeffy."

Look a here, Miss
Anna,-- isn't it vastly funny master's bringing a crazy man here? They
say down in the kitchen, that as how it wouldn't'a'been, if you'd
been home. It's real good, though. It's the splendidest thing that's
happened. Wait till you see him perform. Ask him to sing.
We did pretty well, however, till we got to Milan, where we rested some days; and our Englishmen
were exchanged for an Italian priest who spoke no French, and a Swiss who was a little useful
to us as far as Bologna; after this place we travelled five days alone. The inns on this side
of Milan are much worse, and from the detention of our passports in the towns we passed through,
we were often prevented from reaching the place of destination, and obliged to lodge at villages,
where we suffered much in the way of food and lodging; yet through all we were favored to bear
the journey much better than I expected. My J.Y. was rather poorly for two days, and I was
extremely anxious about him; but the sight of the Gulf of Venice seemed to help to restore him.

At Sinigaglia, a town eighteen miles from this, they told us that we should just meet the vessel
which was to sail on the 30th. Judge then what was our disappointment when, on arriving at
the inn here, we found that it was gone.

This disappointment was a severe trial of their patience; but they consoled themselves with
reflecting that "good in some shape might arise out of the seeming evil."

Ancona, says John Yeardley, is beautifully situated on the side of a high hill, in appearance
at a distance a perfect model of Scarborough. There are in the place a good many Greeks, one
of whom Argyri recognised as we inquired at his shop the way to the Post-office. On returning
she made herself known to him, and he shows us every attention; he is a fine looking man, with
a countenance as strong as brass. We are comfortably lodged, with a delightful view of the
harbor, but our hearts are in Corfu.

Our young companion, adds M.Y., is amiable and very quick, but not of much use to us respecting
her native tongue, which she retains but very imperfectly, and is not at all fond of speaking it.

The houses are high, and many of the streets narrow and offensive, for want of cleanliness
and from an immense population; such numbers are continually in the streets, that there is
no quiet or good air in the town. The darkness is extreme, and the dissipation apparently very
great; the oppression of our spirits at some periods is almost insupportable; and yet I am
at times very sensible of the calming influence of divine love, with a sense that, having acted
to the best of our judgment, we must resign ourselves to wait for the return of the steam-packet
from England.

When on arriving here we found there were no letters, and that probably they were sent to Corfu,
my heart sank within me. We have, however, been since cheered by receiving a very kind letter
from dear Robert Forster; nothing could have been more in season than this token of remembrance.

Finding no suitable vessel for Corfu, with the assistance of their Greek friend they hired
a lodging, and gave their time to the study of Italian and the Modern Greek. Religions labor
was hardly to be thought of; the government of the town and every public office was under the
direction of the Roman Catholic priests, of whom there were more than 400. However, they were
enabled to hold improving intercourse with some individuals, mostly Greeks; "for whom," says
Martha Yeardley, "we felt much interest, and some, I believe, became attached to us; we gave
them a few books."

Before commencing with their visit to the Ionian Islands, it will be interesting to glance
at the circle of Friends whom they had left in England. From the letters which have been preserved,
we select the following extract: the first is from the pen of one who may be described as sound
in heart and understanding, of extensive knowledge and large Christian charity.

Scarborough, 10 mo. 16, 1833.

MY DEAR FRIENDS.

Accept my grateful acknowledgments, and through me those of all your friends in this neighborhood,
for the copies which I have received of your interesting journals. It is indeed a cause of
rejoicing to us that you have been so favored in meeting with so many pious persons with, whom
you could hold Christian fellowship, and among whom there is strong reason for believing your
labors have not been in vain. It is to me very gratifying that you feel and exercise so much
Christian freedom in mingling among persons of various denominations, whom, though owing to
education and to various circumstances, they may differ considerably in opinion on subjects
of minor importance, yet conscious of one common disease--that of sin, and looking for or experiencing
the only remedy--reconciliation with God through one Saviour,--you can salute as brethren and
sisters in the truth, and feel your spirits refreshed whilst you enjoy the privilege of refreshing
theirs; and like Aquila and Priscilla, with Apollos, are made the instruments, I trust, of
"expounding unto them the way of God more perfectly." My dear mother thinks that the persons
you meet with must be more spiritually-minded than Christians in this country. They have, perhaps,
from external circumstances, experienced deeper baptisms, and have made greater sacrifices,
than many amongst us have been called upon to make; and we know that ease and outward prosperity
have not been favorable to the interests of the true Church: but, without doubt, they are exposed
to similar dangers to those in this land whose minds have been awakened to the importance of
religious truth.

After speaking of a journey which he had made with Samuel Tuke and Joseph Priestman for re-arranging
some of the Monthly Meetings in the West Riding, the writer continues:--

On the journey I received intelligence of the decease of Hannah Whitaker; the account produced
a strong sensation in the minds of Friends generally, who felt much for our dear afflicted
friend Robert Whitaker, and for the loss which the institution at Ackworth has sustained. "And
how big is the Moon?" asked Sweet-One-Darling. "Is it as big as this
room?"

"Oh, very, very much bigger," said the Dream-Fairies.

"I guess it must be as big as a house," suggested Sweet-One-Darling.

"Bigger than a house," answered Gleam-o'-the-Murk.

"Oh, my!" exclaimed Sweet-One-Darling, and she began to suspect that the Dream-Fairies were fooling
her.

But that night the Dream-Fairies took Sweet-One-Darling with them
to the Moon!

You don't believe it, eh?

Well, you wait until you've heard all about it, and then, may be, you not only will believe
it, but will want to go there, too.

The Dream-Fairies lifted Sweet-One-Darling carefully out of her cradle; then their wings went
"whir-r-r, whir-r-r"-- you've heard a green fly buzzing against a window-pane, have n't you?
That was the kind of whirring noise the Dream-Fairies'wings made, with the pleasing difference
that the Dream-Fairies'wings produced a soft, soothing music. The cricket under the honeysuckle
by the window heard this music and saw the Dream-Fairies carrying
Sweet-One-Darling away.

"Be sure to bring her back again," said the cricket, for he was a sociable little fellow and
was very fond of little children.

You can depend upon it that Sweet-One-Darling had a delightful time
riding through the cool night air in the arms of those Dream-Fairies;
it was a good deal like being a bird, only the Dream-Fairies flew
very much faster than any bird can fly.

As they sped along they told Sweet-One-Darling all about the wonderful things they saw and everything
was new to Sweet-One-Darling, for she had never made any journeys before except in the little basket-carriage
which Good-Old-Soul, her nurse, propelled every sunny morning up and down the street. Pretty soon
they came to a beautiful river, which looked as if it were molten silver; but it was n't molten
silver; it was a river of moonbeams.

"We will take a sail now," said Gleam-o'-the-Murk.

"This river leads straight to the Moon, and it is well worth navigating."

So they all got into a boat that had a sail made out of ten thousand
and ten baby-spiders'webs, and away they sailed as merrily as you
please.

Sweet-One-Darling put her feet over the side of the boat and tried
to trail them in the river, but the moonbeams tickled her so that
she could n't stand it very long.

And what do you think? When she pulled her feet back into the boat
she found them covered with dimples. She did n't know what to make
of these phenomena until the Dream-Fairies explained to her that
a dimple always remains where a moonbeam tickles a little child.

A dimple on the foot is a sure sign that one has been trailing in
that beautiful silver river that leads to the Moon.

By and by they got to the Moon. I can't begin to tell you how large it was; you'd not believe
me if I did. "This is very lovely," said Sweet-One-Darling, "but where
are the little babies?" "Surely you did n't suppose you'd find any babies
here!" exclaimed the Dream-Fairies.

"Why, in all this bright light the babies would never, never go to sleep! Oh, no; we'll have
to look for the babies on the other side of the Moon."

"Of course we shall," said Sweet-One-Darling. "I might have guessed
as much if I'd only stopped to think."

The Dream-Fairies showed Sweet-One-Darling how to get to the edge
of the Moon, and when she had crawled there she held on to the edge
very fast and peeped over as cautiously as if she had been a timid
little mouse instead of the bravest Sweet-One-Darling in all the
world.

She was very cautious and quiet, because the Dream-Fairies had told her that she must be very
sure not to awaken any of the little babies, for there are no Mothers
up there on the other side of the Moon, and if by any chance a little
baby is awakened-- why, as you would easily suppose, the consequences
are exceedingly embarrassing.

"Can you see anything?" asked the Dream-Fairies of Sweet-One-Darling
as she clung to the edge of the Moon and peeped over.

"I should say I did!" exclaimed Sweet-One-Darling. "I never supposed there could be so beautiful
a place.

I see a large, fair garden, filled with shrubbery and flowers; there are fountains and velvety
hillocks and silver lakes and embowered nooks. A soft, dim, golden
light broods over the quiet spot." "Yes, that is the light which shines
through the Moon from the bright side; but it is very faint," said
the Dream-Fairies.

"And I see the little babies asleep," continued Sweet-One-Darling. "They are lying in the embowered
nooks, near the fountains, upon the velvety hillocks, amid the flowers, under the trees, and
upon the broad leaves of the lilies in the silver lakes. How cunning and plump and sweet they are-- I must
take some of them back with me!"

If they had not been afraid of waking the babies the Dream-Fairies would have laughed uproariously
at this suggestion.

Just fancy Sweet-One-Darling, a baby herself, undertaking the care of a lot of other little babies
fresh from the garden on the other side of the Moon! "I wonder how they all came here in this
Moon-Garden?" asked Sweet-One-Darling. And the Dream-Fairies told her. They explained that whenever
a mother upon earth asked for a little baby of her own her prayer
floated up and up-- many leagues up-- and was borne to the other side
of the Moon, where it fell and rested upon a lily leaf or upon a bank
of flowers in that beautiful garden.

And resting there the prayer presently grew and grew until it became a cunning little baby! So when
the Doctor-Man came with his box the baby was awaiting him, and he
had only to carry the precious little thing to the Mother and give
her prayer back to her to keep and to love always.

There are so very many of these tiny babies in the Moon-Garden that
sometimes-- he does n't do it of purpose-- but sometimes the Doctor-Man
brings the baby to the wrong mother, and that makes the real mother,
who prayed for the baby, feel very, very badly.

Well, I actually believe that Sweet-One-Darling would gladly have spent the rest of her life
clinging to the edge of the Moon and peeping over at the babies in that beautiful garden. But
the Dream-Fairies agreed that this would never do at all.

They finally got Sweet-One-Darling away by promising to stop on their journey home to replenish her
nursing bottle at the Milky Way, which, as perhaps you know, is a marvellous lacteal ocean in the
very midst of the sky.

This beverage had so peculiar and so soothing a charm that presently Sweet-One-Darling went sound asleep,
and when she woke up-- goodness me! it was late in the morning, and
her brother, little Our-Golden-Son, was standing by her cradle, wondering
why she did n't wake up to look at his beautiful new toy elephant.

Sweet-One-Darling told Good-Old-Soul and little Our-Golden-Son all about the garden on the other
side of the Moon. "I am sure it is true," said Good-Old-Soul. "And now that I come to think of
it, that is the reason why the Moon always turns her bright side toward our earth! If the other
side were turned this way the light of the sun and the noise we make would surely awaken and frighten
those poor little babies!" Little Our-Golden-Son believed the story, too. And if Good-Old-Soul
and little Our-Golden-Son believed it, why should n't you? If it were not true how could I
have known all about it and told it to you? SAMUEL COWLES AND HIS HORSE ROYAL The day on which
I was twelve years old my father said to me: "Samuel, walk down the
lane with me to the pasture-lot; I want to show you something." Never
suspicioning anything, I trudged along with father, and what should
I find in the pasture lot but the cunningest, prettiest, liveliest
colt a boy ever clapped eyes on!

"That is my birthday present to you," said father. "Yes, Samuel, I give the colt to you to do
with as you like, for you've been a good boy and have done well at school." You can easily understand
that my boyish heart overflowed with pride and joy and gratitude. A great many years have elapsed
since that time, but I have n't forgotten and I never shall forget the delight of that moment,
when I realized that I had a colt of my own-- a real, live colt, and a Morgan colt, at that! "How old
is he, father?" I asked. "A week old, come to-morrow," said father. "Has Judge Phipps seen him
yet?" I asked. "No; nobody has seen him but you and me and the hired
man." Judge Phipps was the justice of the peace. I had a profound respect
for him, for what he did n't know about horses was n't worth knowing;
I was sure of this, because the judge himself told me so.

One of the first duties to which I applied myself was to go and get the judge and show him
the colt.

The judge praised the pretty creature inordinately, enumerating all his admirable points and predicting
a famous career for him. The judge even went so far as to express the conviction that in due time my colt
would win "imperishable renown and immortal laurels as a competitor
at the meetings of the Hampshire County Trotting Association," of
which association the judge was the president, much to the scandal
of his estimable wife, who viewed with pious horror her husband's
connection with the race-track.

"What
do you think I ought to name my colt?" I asked of the judge. "When I was about your age," the judge
answered, "I had a colt and I named him Royal. He won all the premiums at the county fair before
he was six year old."

That was quite enough for me.

To my thinking every utterance of the
judge's was ex cathedra; moreover, in my boyish exuberance, I fancied
that this name would start my colt auspiciously upon a famous career;
I began at once to think and to speak of him as the prospective winner
of countless honors.

From the moment when I first set eyes on Royal I was his stanch friend; even now, after the lapse
of years, I cannot think of my old companion without feeling here
in my breast a sense of gratitude that that honest, patient, loyal
friend entered so largely into my earlier life.

Twice a day I used to trudge down the lane to the pasture-lot to look at the colt, and invariably
I was accompanied by a troop of boy acquaintances who heartily envied
me my good luck, and who regaled me constantly with suggestions of
what they would do if Royal were their colt.

Royal soon became friendly with us all, and he would respond to my call, whinnying to me as
I came down the lane, as much as to say: "Good morning to you, little master! I hope you are coming
to have a romp with me." And, gracious! how he would curve his tail and throw up his head and gather
his short body together and trot around the pasture-lot on those
long legs of his!

He enjoyed life, Royal did, as much as we boys enjoyed it.

Naturally enough, I made all sorts of plans for Royal.

I recall that, after I had been on a visit to Springfield and had
beholden for the first time the marvels of Barnum's show, I made up
my mind that when Royal and I were old enough we would unite our fortunes
with those of a circus, and in my imagination I already pictured huge
and gaudy posters announcing the blood-curdling performances of the
dashing bareback equestrian, Samuel Cowles, upon his fiery Morgan
steed, Royal!

This plan was not at all approved of by Judge Phipps, who continued
to insist that it was on the turf and not in the sawdust circle that
Royal's genius lay, and to this way of thinking I was finally converted,
but not until the judge had promised to give me a sulky as soon as
Royal demonstrated his ability to make a mile in 2: 40.

It is not without a sigh of regret that in my present narrative I pass over the five years next
succeeding the date of Royal's arrival. For they were very happy years-- indeed, at this distant
period I am able to recall only that my boyhood was full, brimful of happiness. I broke Royal
myself; father and the hired man stood around and made suggestions, and at times they presumed
to take a hand in the proceedings. Virtually, however, I broke Royal to the harness and to
the saddle, and after that I was even more attached to him than ever before-- you know how it
is, if ever you've broken a colt yourself! When I went away to college it
seemed to me that leaving Royal was almost as hard as leaving mother
and father; you see the colt had become a very large part of my boyish
life-- followed me like a pet dog, was lonesome when I was n't round,
used to rub his nose against my arm and look lovingly at me out of
his big, dark, mournful eyes-- yes, I cried when I said good-by to
him the morning I started for Williamstown.

I was ashamed of it then, but not now-- no, not now.

But my fun was all the keener, I guess, when I came home at vacation
times.

Then we had it, up hill and down dale-- Royal and I did! In the summer-time
along the narrow roads we trailed, and through leafy lanes, and in
my exultation I would cut at the tall weeds at the roadside and whisk
at the boughs arching overhead, as if I were a warrior mounted for
battle and these other things were human victims to my valor.

In the winter we sped away over the snow and ice, careless to the howling of the wind and the wrath of
the storm. Royal knew the favorite road, every inch of the way; he knew, too, when Susie held the
reins-- Susie was Judge Phipps'niece, and I guess she'd have mittened me
if it had n't been that I had the finest colt in the county!

The summer I left college there came to me an overwhelming sense of patriotic duty. Mother
was the first to notice my absent-mindedness, and to her I first confided
the great wish of my early manhood. It is hard for parents to bid
a son go forth to do service upon the battlefield, but New England
in those times responded cheerfully and nobly to Mr. Lincoln's call.

The Eighth Massachusetts cavalry was the regiment I enlisted in; a baker's dozen of us boys went
together from the quiet little village nestling in the shadow of Mount Holyoke. From Camp Andrew
I wrote back a piteous letter, complaining of the horse that had been assigned to me; I wanted
Royal; we had been inseparable in times of peace-- why should we not share together the fortunes
of war? Within a fortnight along came Royal, conducted in all dignity by-- you would never guess--
by Judge Phipps! Full of patriotism and of cheer was the judge. "Both of ye are thoroughbreds,"
said he. "Ye'll come in under the wire first every time, I know
ye will."

The judge also brought me a saddle blanket which Susie had ornamented
with wondrous and tender art.

So Royal and I went into the war together. There were times of privation and of danger; neither of
us ever complained. I am proud to bear witness that in every emergency my horse bore himself
with a patience and a valor that seemed actually human. My comrades envied me my gentle, stanch,
obedient servant. Indeed, Royal and I became famous as inseparable and loyal friends. We were
in five battles and neither of us got even so much as a scratch. But one afternoon in a skirmish
with the rebels near Potomac Mills a bullet struck me in the thigh, and from the mere shock
I fell from Royal's back into the tangle of the thicket. The fall must have stunned me, for the next
thing I knew I was alone-- deserted of all except my faithful horse. Royal stood over me, and
when I opened my eyes he gave a faint whinny.

I hardly knew what to do. My leg pained me excruciatingly. I surmised that I would never be
able to make my way back to camp under the fire of the rebel picketers, for I discovered that
they were closing in. Then it occurred to me to pin a note to Royal's saddle blanket and to send
Royal back to camp telling the boys of the trouble I was in. The horse understood
it all; off he galloped, conscious of the import of the mission upon
which he had been dispatched.

Bang-bang-bang! went the guns over yonder, as if the revengeful creatures in the far-off brush guessed
the meaning of our manoeuvering and sought to slay my loyal friend.

But
not a bullet touched him-- leastwise he galloped on and on till I lost sight of him. They came
for me at last, the boys did; they were a formidable detachment, and how the earth shook as they
swept along! "We thought you were a goner, sure," said Hi Bixby.
"I guess I would have been if it had n't been for Royal," said I. "I
guess so, myself," said he. "When we saw him stumblin'along all bloody
we allowed for sure you was dead!"

"All blood?" I cried. "Is Royal hurt?"

"As bad as a hoss can be," said he. In camp we found them doing the best they could for him. But
it was clearly of no avail. There was a gaping, ragged hole in his side; seeking succor for me, Royal
had met his death-wound. I forgot my own hurt; I thrust the others aside and hobbled where he
lay. "Poor old Roy!" I cried, as I threw myself beside my dying friend and put my arms about
his neck. Then I patted and stroked him and called him again and again by name, and there
was a look in his eyes that told me he knew me and was glad that I was there. How strange,
and yet how beautiful, it was that in that far-off country, with my
brave, patient, loyal friend's fluttering heart close unto mine, I
neither saw nor thought of the scene around me.

But before my eyes came back the old, familiar places-- the pasture lot, the lane, the narrow
road up the hill, the river winding along between great stretches of brown corn, the aisle
of maple trees, and the fountain where we drank so many, many times together-- and I smelled the
fragrance of the flowers and trees abloom, and I heard the dear voices and the sweet sounds of
my boyhood days. After we had left the newly-made road, we pursued
a track perfectly unequalled in any part where I have travelled; rugged precipices, shelving
rocks, and large loose stones, which assailed the feet of the poor beasts every step they took.
However, for my part, I was well rewarded; it gave me an opportunity not only of seeing the
interior of the island, but also a specimen of the disposition of the natives. Before we reached
the village, I observed, with some surprise, a tribe of people assembled on the top of the
cliffs to see us come in, and on ascending a few more paces of rock, we found the children
of the boys' school arranged like a little army, with myrtle branches in their hands to welcome
us to their sequestered hamlet. After greeting us with great respect, they followed us to the
country-house of our English friend.

The mountain multitude waited with patience until we had made our repast, when a few of the
leading villagers were introduced to our room. And what was their request? A school for their
daughters. They were asked what they would give towards its support. They answered, Whatever
we can afford; we that are able will pay for the poor, and they shall go free. It was then
intimated to them, that their friends would assist them in establishing a school; but that
they themselves must join in the effort, and that it would be well to consult together, and
put down their names and the number of children they would send. Here the town-crier came forward,
and said he had for the last twenty years cried everything the government wished to be made
known in the town, free of cost, and he would now go round and cry for the benefit of the school.
Next came forward the father of the young woman proposed for the mistress, who it was proposed
should be further instructed in the village, and then sent to the town to learn the system.
We asked them if they were sensible of the advantages of a school for girls, of having them
brought up to be good wives, capable of managing their households, and able to read the precious
things in the New Testament. One of them replied, Without instruction what are we?--we are
like the beasts. One peasant had been so anxious for his daughter to learn to read, that he
had made interest to send her to the boys' school. When we asked why he did so, he said, Because
I had no other means, and I wished to have her read the New Testament to us; now I have the
advantage of hearing that precious book read to me by my own daughter. It was delightful to
witness a feeling like this in a people so uncultivated; surely the friends of education in
Greece have encouragement to go on and prosper.

After this pleasing interview we proceeded to the boys' school, followed by as many as could
get into the room. When the boys had read, I desired that questions might be put to them on
what they had been reading, but soon found that this important mode of instruction was neglected;
the master promised to introduce the questions which we are having printed, if we would send
him the books. On returning to our quarters, we found among the crowd who were still present,
the three priests, come, I suppose, to pay their respects to the governor. We were glad of
an opportunity of conversing with them. On asking their opinion as to a school, one of them
said, in Greek, It is good, blessed and honorable. I could not let this favorable opportunity
pass without impressing on them, through McPhail, the advantage of reading the Scriptures to
the people in the modern tongue which they could understand, telling them that the book of
Genesis was already printed in Modern Greek. They could hardly believe me, and on my showing
them a new copy of this and of the Psalms, their eyes sparkled with pleasure. Our friend the
governor read aloud a portion of Genesis, and one of the priests a little out of the Psalms.
The long-robed, patriarchal looking man said, Ah, this is what we want! We priests read in
the churches what we don't understand ourselves, and how can we explain it to others. Before
the year 1800, men had never suspected that their home had been tenanted in past times by a
set of beings totally different from those that inhabit it now; still farther was it from their
thought to imagine that creation after creation had followed each other in successive ages, every
one stamped with a character peculiarly its own. It was Cuvier who, aroused to new labors by the
hint he received from the bones unearthed at Montmartre, to which
all his vast knowledge of living animals gave him no clue, established
by means of most laborious investigations the astounding conclusion,
that, prior to the existence of the animals and plants now living,
this globe had been the theatre of another set of beings, every trace
of whom had vanished from the face of the earth.

To his alert and active intellect and powerful imagination a word spoken out of the past was
pregnant with meaning; and when he had once convinced himself that he had found a single animal
that had no counterpart among living beings, it gave him the key
to many mysteries.

It may be doubted whether men's eyes are ever opened to truths which, though new to them, are old to
God, till the time has come when they can apprehend their meaning
and turn them to good account.

It certainly seems, that, when such a revelation has once been made, light pours in upon it
from every side; and this is especially true of the case in point. The existence of a past creation
once suggested, confirmation was found in a thousand facts overlooked before. The solid crust
of the earth gave up its dead, and from the snows of Siberia, from the soil of Italy, from
caves of Central Europe, from mines, from the rent sides of mountains and from their highest
peaks, from the coral beds of ancient oceans, the varied animals
that had possessed the earth ages before man was created spoke to
us of the past.

No sooner were these facts established, than the relation between the extinct world and the
world of to-day became the subject of extensive researches and comparisons; innumerable theories
were started to account for the differences, and to determine the
periods and manner of the change.

It is not my intention to enter now at any length upon the subject of geological succession,
though I hope to return to it hereafter in a series of papers upon that and kindred topics;
but I allude to it here, before presenting some views upon the maintenance of organic types
as they exist in our own period, for the following reason. Since it has been shown that from
the beginning of Creation till the present time the physical history of the world has been divided
into a succession of distinct periods, each one accompanied by its characteristic animals and plants,
so that our own epoch is only the closing one in the long procession of the ages, naturalists
have been constantly striving to find the connecting link between them all, and to prove that
each such creation has been a normal and natural growth out of the
preceding one.

With this aim they have tried to adapt the phenomena of reproduction among animals to the problem
of creation, and to make the beginning of life in the individual solve that great mystery
of the beginning of life in the world. In other words, they have endeavored to show that the
fact of successive generations is analogous to that of successive creations, and that the processes
by which animals, once created, are maintained unchanged during the period to which they belong will
account also for their primitive existence.

I wish, at the outset, to forestall any such misapplication of the facts I am about to state,
and to impress upon my readers the difference between these two subjects
of inquiry,-- since it by no means follows, that, because individuals
are endowed with the power of reproducing and perpetuating their kind,
they are in any sense self-originating.

Still less probable does this appear, when we consider, that, since man has existed upon the
earth, no appreciable change has taken place in the animal or vegetable world; and so far
as our knowledge goes, this would seem to be equally true of all the periods preceding ours,
each one maintaining unbroken to its close the organic character
impressed upon it at the beginning.

The
question I propose to consider here is simply the mode by which organic types are preserved
as they exist at present. Every one has a summary answer to this question in the statement, that
all these short-lived individuals reproduce themselves, and thus maintain their kinds. But the modes
of reproduction are so varied, the changes some animals undergo during their growth so extraordinary,
the phenomena accompanying these changes so startling, that, in the pursuit of the subject, a new
and independent science-- that of Embryology-- has grown up, of the utmost importance in the present
state of our knowledge. The table was spread in the
hospitable wigwam which we first entered, a clean white tablecloth and napkins on a large board,
with cushions around on boxes for chairs. The repast consisted of a whole lamb, well roasted,
and two sorts of Yorkshire-pudding, one of which was particularly good.

This patriarchal repast being finished, we again went forth, and visited the convent of Plijâ,
distant from the wigwams about ten minutes' walk. Many of our new friends accompanied us, the
judge with great solidity of manner leading the way. We passed a beautiful fountain at the
head of the glen, and entered the monastic edifice, which is built of stone. The abbot, a fine
old man, met us at the door with a pleasant countenance. He invited us into his cell; we had
to stoop very low to save our heads, and the door-case was rubbed bright on all sides by the
friction of this solitary inmate passing in and out. Songs, recitations such as I have described,
filled up the first part of the evening; then a musician from the audience went upon the stage
to put the boy's powers to the final test. Songs and intricate symphonies were given, which it
was most improbable the boy could ever have heard; he remained standing, utterly motionless, until
they were finished, and for a moment or two after,-- then, seating himself, gave them without
the break of a note. Others followed, more difficult, in which he played the bass accompaniment in the
manner I have described, repeating instantly the treble. The child looked dull, wearied, during
this part of the trial, and his master, perceiving it, announced the exhibition closed, when
the musician (who was a citizen of the town, by-the-way) drew out a thick roll of score, which
he explained to be a Fantasia of his own composition, never published.

"This it was impossible the boy could have heard; there could be no
trick of memory in this; and on this trial," triumphantly, "Tom would
fail."

The manuscript was some fourteen pages long,-- variations on an inanimate theme. Mr. Oliver
refused to submit the boy's brain to so cruel a test; some of the
audience, even, interfered; but the musician insisted, and took his
place.

Tom sat beside him,-- his head rolling nervously from side to side,-- struck
the opening cadence, and then, from the first note to the last, gave
the secondo triumphantly.

Jumping up, he fairly shoved the man from his seat, and proceeded to play the treble with more
brilliancy and power than its composer. When he struck the last octave, he sprang up, yelling with
delight:-- "Um's got him, Massa! um's got him!" cheering and rolling about the stage. The
cheers of the audience-- for the boys especially did not wait to
clap-- excited him the more.

It was an hour before his master could quiet his hysteric agitation. That feature of the concerts
which was the most painful I have not touched upon: the moments when his master was talking, and Tom
was left to himself,-- when a weary despair seemed to settle down
on the distorted face, and the stubby little black fingers, wandering
over the keys, spoke for Tom's own caged soul within. At first the host refused to receive
our little company, but after some explanation he consented to arrange the desolate-looking
rooms into habitable order.

They visited the schools and the prison, and they received from the Resident, H.G. Tennyson,
and the schoolmaster and mistress, a friendly reception; but the islanders are generally careless
of instruction, and progress of all kinds is slow.

From Cephalonia they traversed the sea to the beautiful island of Zante. Though they had ten
men to row, the passage occupied thirteen hours.

Contrary wind, writes John Yeardley, compelled us to approach the island slowly, which gave
us an opportunity of viewing the villages and scattered houses at the foot of the mountain.
The town of Zante is very long; the main street has piazzas on each side for a considerable
distance. Was there actually no possibility of Jim's getting shot or stabbed or hurt? These and
similar questions did the girl put to the two men, who, true to their trust, assured the timorous
creature in well-assumed tones of confidence that her brother could n't get hurt, no matter
how hard he might try.

To make short of a long tale, I will say that the result of the long parley, in which Miss Woppit
exhibited a most charming maidenly embarrassment, was that Three-fingered
Hoover and Barber Sam were admitted to the cabin for the night. Attempts to defraud railway companies by means of
forged tickets are seldom made, and still more seldom successful. In 1870, a man who lived in a
toll-house near Dudley, and who rented a large number of tolls on the different turnpikes,
in almost every part of the country, devised a plan for travelling cheaply. He set up a complete
fount of type, composing stick, and every requisite for printing tickets, and provided himself
with coloured papers, colours, and paints to paint them, and plain cards on which to paste
them; and he prepared tickets for journeys of great length, and available to and from different
stations on the London and North-Western, Great Western, and Midland
lines.

On arriving one day at the ticket platform at Derby, he presented
a ticket from Masbro’ to Smethwick. We suggested the benefit likely to
result from the prisoners being employed, and Major Longley [the Governor] intends to introduce
basket-making. "Yet he bore the sin of many. And made intercession for the transgressors... with his
stripes we were healed."

Happily all that is best in Christendom recognizes, with Kuenen or Matthew Arnold, the grandeur
of the Old Testament ideal.

But that this ideal penetrated equally to our everyday liturgy is less understood of the world.
"Blessed art Thou, O Lord our God, who hast chosen Israel from all peoples and given him the
Law." Here is no choice of a favourite but of a servant, and when it is added that "from Zion
shall the Law go forth" it is obvious what that servant's task is to be. "What everlasting love
hast Thou loved the house of Israel," says the Evening Prayer. But
in what does this love consist? Is it that we have been pampered,
cosseted? (See Eastern Customs, p. 78.)

Having thus explored the four principal islands of the Ionian Archipeligo. John and Martha
Yeardley turned their course towards the Morea.

30th.--At 6 o'clock in the morning we put ourselves once more at the mercy of the waves of
the Mediterranean, and had a quick passage of fourteen hours. They have a love of gain, which, under
a better system, had made them hard-working; but it takes ten serfs to do languidly and poorly
what two free men in America do quickly and well.

They are naturally a kind people; but let one example show how serfage
can transmute kindness.

It is a rule well known in Russia, that, when an accident occurs,
interference is to be left to the police. Hence you shall see a man
lying in a fit, and the bystanders giving no aid, but waiting for
the authorities. Bless your soul, do you think I’ m a fool, or anyone else? It is true I was made an offer
for him the last time I was in town, and, for the man looked kinder simple, and you know how
it is yourself with hoss trading, I asked the cuss mor’ n the animal
might have been worth. The old town is a scene of ruins; the site of the new town is near the sea, where
temporary shops and houses have been erected.

