To Talbot's amazement the point of the penknife sank into the wall and in a moment a section
of it was gouged out. The professor said tensely, "I've been months in this place, been taken
back and forth, and know the lay of the land. This room is in a great building that houses
the laboratory from which the attack against earth is being launched. Would you believe it,
only the great scientist who picked up my messages and helped me perfect my invention, and
a few of his assistants, are concerned in that attack, and they will be congregated at the
machines. Follow me, and whatever I command, do it promptly."

The Professor had been working feverishly as he spoke, and now he and Talbot crawled through
the hole he had made in the wall and found themselves in a long gloomy corridor. "Quick," Reubens
whispered.

They darted down the passageway. Talbot had only time to see that the gleaming sides of the
corridor were beveled and etched with strange designs, before they came to its end and where
a curious device like a huge five-pointed star was revolving noiselessly, half sunk in a great
hole in the floor. Without hesitation the Professor stepped onto one of the flat-tipped star-points
as it came level with where they stood and Talbot did the same. Up, turned the star-point,
to a dizzy height, and over, but the tip swung on ball-bearings, maintaining its passengers
in a perpendicular position, and from its highest point of elevation descended to another floor
far below, where they disembarked.

The huge revolving star-wheel was nothing but an ingenious movable staircase. But the Professor
gave Talbot no time to marvel, nor did the latter try to linger. The corridor below was wider,
more richly beveled and carved, and the statue of an heroic bird stood perched in the center
of it. The lighting was soft and mellow, but Talbot could perceive no windows or globes. Suddenly
from an open doorway hopped a bird. There was no chance to avoid it. Its wings were spread
and from its parted bill came a harsh cry, "Toc-toc, toc-toc!"

Knife in one hand, the Professor hurled himself forward and caught the bird in the grip of
the other. Instantly from the doorway sprang a monstrous mechanism on stilts, flexible tentacles
of metal reaching out and wrapping themselves around the Professor. Talbot leaped to the Professor's
assistance. The mechanism fought like a live thing. In vain he strove to wrench the tentacles
free of the Professor. One of them lashed out and took him by the thighs in a crushing grasp.
But the Professor had the bird by the throat. Both of his hands were free. Back, he forced
its head, back. The mechanism seemed to falter in the attack, as if bewildered. Across the
exposed throat the Professor drew the gleaming blade. Flesh, tendons and arteries gave, blood
spurted, and in the same moment the tentacles fell away from Talbot and the Professor and withdrew
with a dull clang. The Professor released the bird and it dropped to the floor.

"It is the birds' mentality that directs those mechanisms," said the Professor, pointing to
the now harmless machine.

Apparently the brief but terrific battle had passed unnoticed, no alarm being given. Now the
corridor twisted. The two men came to where a deep well was sunk in the floor. To one side
a star-wheel revolved smoothly. Out of the depths came the steady throb of machinery. Cautiously
peering over the edge, Talbot saw a sight he would never forget.

He did not need the Professor's whispered words to tell him that here was the source of the
deadly attack being waged against earth. Motionless birds perched in front of bizarre machines;
lights waxed and waned; a cannon-like device, or funnel, shot a column of light into a screen,
and through the column of light moved a steady procession of round objects the size of plums.

"The drifting globes being shot through to earth," whispered the Professor, "and our only hope.
Listen, the birds are intent on their machines, their backs to the star-wheel. We will descend,
throw ourselves into the column of light, seize hold of a globe, and...."

He did not need to finish. Talbot understood in a flash. They would be dragged to their own
world by the weapons hurled at it.

"Of course that column of light may kill us," went on the Professor tensely. "Or we may be
blown up on the other side. Your Mexican friend hasn't touched off that explosive gas yet,
because--But we've not a moment to lose. Follow me."

The tip of the star-wheel went up, over, descended. The blood was roaring in Talbot's ears.
"Now!" hissed the Professor. "Now!" Together they rushed forward. Talbot's foot slipped. The
heart leaped into his throat. He never remembered reaching the column of light; but suddenly
he was in it, blinded, dazed. His clutching hands closed on something small and hard.

The laboratory was a pinwheel going round and round. Through a sea of darkness he floated.
A distant glow grew, expanded, became the crypt in the old Wiley mine. A moment he glimpsed
the gleaming pillars, the pulsing machines, the startled birds, and then--Oh, it was incredible,
impossible, but the dark, crumbling walls of the old shaft were around him; the globe in his
hand no larger than a pea was lifting him towards life and safety.

He wanted to shout, to sing, but even as the pale stars fell athwart his upturned face, even
as the cool mountain air smote his fevered brow, the dark earth erupted beneath his feet, a
whirlwind of smoke and wind beat and buffeted him, and, in the midst of an overwhelming noise,
consciousness was blotted out!

It was bright daylight when Talbot regained his senses. Propped against a great rock the Professor
regarded him whimsically. Reubens looked badly bruised and battered; one arm hung loosely at
his side. Talbot's head ached and he knew that a leg was broken.

"Yes," said the Professor, "we got through just in time--a few seconds before the explosive
gas was touched off. Thank God, my invention has been destroyed. The world is safe."

Yes, the world was safe. Talbot sank back with a sigh of relief. Overhead a white plane was
dipping toward earth.