   We should like to ask the Pacifists and Semi-Pacifists, who are
   fond of official documents, if they have read the White Paper dealing
   with the plain facts about the peace with Roumania. If they have a
   single word to say on the subject, we should be much interested to
   hear what it is. It makes absolutely plain two facts, both of which
   have a sort of frightful humour after all the humanitarian talk about
   no annexations and no indemnities. The first is that the conquerors
   have annexed in a direct and personal sense beyond what is commonly
   meant by annexation; the second is that they have indemnified
   themselves by an immediate coercion and extortion, which is generally
   veiled by the forms of a recognised indemnity. In annexing some nine
   thousand square miles, they have been particular to attach whole
   forests to the hunting-grounds of Hungarian nobles and the timber
   of Hungarian wood merchants; not merely annexing as a conqueror
   annexes, but rather stealing as an individual steals. Further, the
   fun growing fast and furious, they have taken country containing a
   hundred and thirty thousand Roumanians, merely because it is
   uninhabited land. For the second point, we often speak figuratively
   of tyrants enslaving a country; but Teutons do literally enslave. All
   the males of the occupied land, which happens to be two-thirds of
   Roumania, are driven to work on pain of death or prison. All this is
   clear and satisfactory enough; but the White Paper keeps the best to
   the last. It is this sentence we would commend to our peaceful
   friends: "The German delegates informed the Roumanian delegates, who
   were appalled at being required to accept such conditions, that they
   would appreciate their moderation when they knew those which would be
   imposed on the Western Powers after the victory of the Central
   Empires."

The reminder was needed. Far less than most people was Chesterton subject to that weakness
of the human spirit that brings weariness in sustained effort and premature relaxation. Prussia
had not, he said, shown any evidence of repentance--merely of regret for lack of success. The
Kaiser said he had not wanted this war. No, said Chesterton, he wanted a very different war.
Chesterton might and did say later that he himself had wanted a very different peace--the destruction
of Prussia, the reconstruction of the old German states--but at present he wanted only to fight
on until this became possible.

I do not think he ever hated anybody--but he did hate Prussianism as the "wickedness that hindered
loving," and he had no liking for "the patronizing pacifism of the gentleman [it was Romain
Rolland] who took a holiday in the Alps and said he was above the struggle; as if there were
any Alp from which the soul can look down on Calvary. There is, indeed, one mountain among
them that might be very appropriate to so detached an observer--the mountain named after Pilate,
the man who washed his hands."*

[* Uses of Diversity, p. 40 (Fountain Library)]

His keen imagination could visualize the sufferings caused by war. Vicariously he knew something
of the life of the trenches, for Cecil like many another C. Man* had managed to get to France.
A delightful article on Comradeship shows, what letters from soldiers confirm, how perfectly
at home was Private Chesterton among his fellows and how much loved by them.

[* English soldiers are classed A, B, or C, according to their degree of physical fitness,
and Cecil was in Class C.]

I can understand a pagan, but not a Christian, who simply dismisses the suffering of our soldiers
as useless. He is like Dr. Hyde scorning Father Damien or like those who cried at the foot
of the Cross: He saved others, Himself He cannot save. They saved others these men, their suffering
was that of the human race whose head is Christ. With Him they bore, even if they knew it not,
that mysterious burden of humanity that makes some men question God's existence but draws others
into conscious membership of His mystical body. Many were so drawn in those days and there
seemed a new lifting up of the Cross. The New Witness does, I think, lack one note a little.
They were too busy hating Prussianism to give thought to the Christian command to love Prussians,
whose sufferings too were those of humanity.

Into the opposite error there was no risk that they would fall. Never for them would heroism
be belittled in the name of the very horrors it was encountering. In one article Belloc touched
on this strange perversion and reminded his readers that the power to ravage and destroy was
not really a new result of modern machinery. Attila and his Huns had inflicted even greater
devastation and had left a desert behind them. Barbarism in its nature was destructive and
we were encountering barbarism. In so doing we were acting the part of Christian men.

But the old fights still had to be waged on the home front: against the money power and against
what the New Witness called Prussianism at home. Unceasingly they battled for fair treatment
for soldiers' wives and children, for freedom from unmeaning and unnecessary regulations, against
the profiteering by big firms and the consequent crushing of small. About two thousand small
butchers' shops for instance had to close at the very beginning of the war owing to a cornering
of supplies by the large firms. Against this and all the ramifications of the meat "scandal"
the New Witness struggled, publishing, they claimed, facts unpublished elsewhere and inspiring
questions in the House of Commons. Belloc's irony, Chesterton's wit, point these articles and
make them worth reading as literature; and there is some of the old fooling. A further series
on the Servile State is attacked by Shaw who thinks that Belloc, since he is not a Socialist,
must be a follower of Herbert Spencer! G.K. accounts for this by saying that Shaw had not read
Belloc. "How do you know," retorts Shaw, "it is not Herbert Spencer I have not read? Suppose
you had your choice of not reading a book by Belloc and not reading one by Spencer which would
you choose? Hang it all, be reasonable."

The economic front was never abandoned and the paper continued to attack all forms of Socialism
including the recreation of Bumble by Mrs. Sidney Webb, with all the regimentation of the poor
"for their own good" that Bumble represented. The inner secrets of the Fabian Office are unfolded
by Shaw in a letter to Gilbert (dated Aug. 6, 1917).

   MY DEAR G.K.C.

   If you want to expose a scandalous orgy in the New Witness, you
   may depend on the following as being a correct account by an eye
   witness.

   You know that there is a body called The Fabian Research
   Department, of which I have the hollow honour to be Perpetual Grand,
   the real moving spirit being Mrs. Sidney Webb. A large number of
   innocent young men and women are attracted to this body by promises
   of employment by the said Mrs. S.W. in works of unlimited and
   inspiring uplift, such as are unceasingly denounced, along with
   Marconi and other matters, in your well-written organ.

   Well, Mrs. Sidney Webb summoned all these young things to an
   uplifting At Home at the Fabian office lately. They came in crowds
   and sat at her feet whilst she prophesied unto them, with occasional
   comic relief from the unfortunate Perpetual Grand. At the decent hour
   of ten o'clock, she bade them good night and withdrew to her own
   residence and to bed. For some accidental reason or other I lingered
   until, as I thought, all the young things had gone home. I should
   explain that I was in the two pair back. At last I started to go home
   myself. As I descended the stairs I was stunned by the most infernal
   din I have ever heard, even at the front, coming from the Fabian
   Hall, which would otherwise be the back yard. On rushing to this
   temple I found the young enthusiasts sprawling over tables, over
   radiators, over everything except chairs, in a state of scandalous
   abandonment, roaring at the tops of their voices and in a quite
   unintelligible manner a string of presumably obscene songs,
   accompanied on the piano with frantic gestures and astonishing
   musical skill by a man whom I had always regarded as a respectable
   Fabian Researcher, but who now turned out to be a Demon Pianist
   out-Heroding (my secretary put in two rs, and explains that she was
   thinking of Harrods) Svengali. A horribly sacrilegious character was
   given to the proceedings by the fact that the tune they were singing
   when I entered was Luther's hymn Eine Feste Burg ist Unser Gott. As
   they went on (for I regret to say that my presence exercised no
   restraint whatever) they sang their extraordinary and
   incomprehensible litany to every tune, however august its
   associations, which happened to fit it. These, if you please, are the
   solemn and sour neophytes whose puritanical influence has kept you in
   dread for so many years.

   But I have not told you the worst. Before I fled from the building
   I did at last discover what words it was they were singing. When it
   first flashed on me, I really could not believe it. But at the end of
   the next verse no doubt or error was possible. The young maenad
   nearest me was concluding every strophe by shrieking that she didn't
   care where the water went if it didn't get into the wine.* Now you
   know.

[* The refrain of a poem in The Flying Inn.]

   I have since ascertained that a breviary of this Black Mass can be
   obtained at the Fabian Office, with notes of the numbers of the hymns
   Ancient and Modern, and all the airs sacred and profane, to which
   your poems have been set.

   This letter needs no answer--indeed, admits of none. I leave you to
   your reflections.

   Ever

   G.B.S.

"The Shaw Worm Turns on Wells" was a headline in the New Witness over a vigorous and light-hearted
attack. The others were apt to score off Wells in these exchanges because he lost light-heartedness
and became irritable. Even with Gilbert he sometimes broke out, although in a calmer moment
he told Shaw that to get angry with Chesterton was an impossibility. With Cecil Chesterton
it was only too easy to get angry at any rate as he appeared in the New Witness. But I think
when he heard Cecil was in France Wells must have regretted one of the letters he wrote to
Gilbert, just before the change of editorship.

It was curious, the contrast between the genial personality so loved by his friends and the
waspishness so often shown by Cecil and his staff in the columns of the paper. "His extraordinary
personality," writes E. S. P. Haynes, "wonderfully penetrated the eccentricity of his appearance.
His features were slightly fantastic and his voice was as loudly discordant as his laughter;
but the real charm and generosity of his character were so transparent that one never seemed
to be conscious of the physical medium."

Yet with all my sympathy for many of the New Witness ideas my nerves jangle when I read the
volumes of Cecil's editorship, and I think jangled nerves explain if they do not excuse this
outburst by Wells:

   MY DEAR G.K.C.

   Haven't I on the whole behaved decently to you? Haven't I always
   shown a reasonable civility to you and your brother and Belloc?
   Haven't I betrayed at times a certain affection for you? Very well,
   then you will understand that I don't start out to pick a needless
   quarrel with the New Witness crowd. But this business of the
   Hueffer book in the New Witness makes me sick. Some disgusting
   little greaser named ---- has been allowed to insult old F.M.H. in a
   series of letters that make me ashamed of my species. Hueffer has
   many faults no doubt but firstly he's poor, secondly he's notoriously
   unhappy and in a most miserable position, thirdly he's a better
   writer than any of your little crowd and fourthly, instead of
   pleading his age and his fat and taking refuge from service in a
   greasy obesity as your Brother has done, he is serving his country.
   His book is a great book and ---- just lies about it--I guess he's a
   dirty minded priest or some such unclean thing--when he says it is
   the story of a stallion and so forth. The whole outbreak is so
   envious, so base, so cat-in-the-gutter-spitting-at-the-passer-by,
   that I will never let the New Witness into the house again.

   Regretfully yours,

   H. G. WELLS.

Gilbert replied:

   11 Warwick Gardens, Kensington W.

   MY DEAR WELLS,

   As you will see by the above address I have been away from home;
   and must apologise for delay; I am returning almost at once, however.
   Most certainly you have always been a good friend to me, and I have
   always tried to express my pride in the fact. I know enough of your
   good qualities in other ways to put down everything in your last
   letter to an emotion of loyalty to another friend. Any quarrel
   between us will not come from me; and I confess I am puzzled as to
   why it should come from you, merely because somebody else who is not
   I dislikes a book by somebody else who is not you, and says so in an
   article for which neither of us is even remotely responsible. I very
   often disagree with the criticisms of ----; I do not know anything
   about the book or the circumstances of Hueffer. I cannot help being
   entertained by your vision of ----, who is not a priest, but a poor
   journalist, and I believe a Free-Thinker. But whoever he may be (and
   I hardly think the problem worth a row between you and me) he has a
   right to justice: and you must surely see that even if it were my
   paper, I could not either tell a man to find a book good when he
   found it bad, or sack him for a point of taste which has nothing in
   the world to do with the principles of the paper. For the rest,
   Haynes represents the New Witness much more than a reviewer does,
   being both on the board and the staff; and he has put your view in
   the paper--I cannot help thinking with a more convincing logic. Don't
   you sometimes find it convenient, even in my case, that your friends
   are less touchy than you are?

   By all means drop any paper you dislike, though if you do it for
   every book review you think unfair, I fear your admirable range of
   modern knowledge will be narrowed. Of the paper in question I will
   merely say this. My brother and in some degree the few who have
   worked with him have undertaken a task of public criticism for the
   sake of which they stand in permanent danger of imprisonment and
   personal ruin. We are incessantly reminded of this danger; and no one
   has ever dared to suggest that we have any motive but the best. If
   you should ever think it right to undertake such a venture, you will
   find that the number of those who will commit their journalistic
   fortunes to it is singularly small: and includes some who have more
   courage and honesty than acquaintance with the hierarchy of art. It
   is even likely that you will come to think the latter less important.

   Yours, sans rancune,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

   P.S. On re-reading your letter in order to be as fair as I am
   trying to be, I observe you specially mention ----'s letters. You
   will see, of course, that this does not make any difference; to stop
   letters would be to stop Haynes' letter and others on your side; and
   these could not be printed without permitting a rejoinder. I post
   this from Beaconsfield, where anything further will find me.

It ended as all quarrels did that anyone started with Gilbert:

   DEAR G.K.C.

   Also I can't quarrel with you. But the Hueffer business aroused my
   long dormant moral indignation and I let fly at the most sensitive
   part of the New Witness constellation, the only part about whose
   soul I care. I hate these attacks on rather miserable exceptional
   people like Hueffer and Masterman. I know these aren't perfect men
   but their defects make quite sufficient hells for them without these
   public peltings. I suppose I ought to have written to C.C. instead of
   to you. One of these days I will go and have a heart to heart talk to
   him. Only I always get so amiable when I meet a man. He, C.C., needs
   it--I mean the talking to.

   Yours ever

   H.G.

Through the war's progress Wells appeared to Chesterton to be expressing with a powerful and
individual genius not his own considered views but the reactions of public opinion. As Mr.
Britling he saw the war through, and even called it "a war to end war." As Mr. Clissold he
asked of what use it had all been. Chesterton speaks of him as a "rather unstable genius,"
and the genius and instability alike can be seen in his meteor appearances in the New Witness
and in his books. Several of these he sent to Gilbert, who wrote (Sept. 12, 1917):

   I have been trying for a long time, though perpetually baulked
   with business and journalism, to write and thank you for sending me,
   in so generous a manner, your ever interesting and delightful books;
   especially as divisions touching the things we care most about, drive
   me, every time I review them, to deal more in controversy and less in
   compliment than I intend. The truth and the trouble, is that both of
   us are only too conscious that there is a Great War going on all the
   time on the purely mental plane; and I cannot help thinking your view
   is often a heresy; and I know only too well that when you lead it, it
   is likely to be a large heresy. I fear that being didactic means
   being disproportionate; and that the temptation to attack something I
   think I can correct leads to missing (in my writing, not in my
   reading) a thousand fine things that I could never imitate. It is
   lucky for me that you are not very often a book-reviewer, when I
   bring out my own shapeless and amateurish books.

In the Autobiography G.K. calls Wells a sportive but spiritual child of Huxley. He delighted
in his wit and swiftness of mind, but he summarized in the same book the quality which runs
through all his work.

   I have always thought that he re-acted too swiftly to everything;
   possibly as a part of the swiftness of his natural genius. I have
   never ceased to admire and sympathise; but I think he has always been
   too much in a state of reaction. To use the name which would probably
   annoy him most, I think he is a permanent reactionary. Whenever I met
   him, he seemed to be coming from somewhere, rather than going
   anywhere. . . . And he was so often nearly right, that his movements
   irritated me like the sight of somebody's hat being perpetually
   washed up by the sea and never touching the shore. But I think he
   thought that the object of opening the mind is simply opening the
   mind. Whereas I am incurably convinced that the object of opening the
   mind, as of opening the mouth, is to shut it again on something solid.

No change of mood in the public meant any change in the New Witness group. In a powerful article
in reply to an old friend who asked for peace because the war was destroying freedom, Belloc
told him that freedom had gone long since for the mass of Englishmen. "How many," wrote G.K.,
"pacifists or semi-pacifists . . . resisted the detailed destruction of all liberty for the
populace before the war? It is a bitter choice between freedom and patriotism, but how many
fought for freedom before it gave them the chance of fighting against Patriotism?"*

[* New Witness, May 31, 1917.]

Again and again they touched the spot on the question of trading with the enemy. In this as
in all their attacks they made one point of enormous importance. Do not, they said, look for
traitors and spies among waiters and small traders--look up, not down. You will find them in
high places if you will dare to look. They dared.

And here came in once more what was commonly regarded as a strange crank peculiar to the Chesterbelloc--their
outlook towards Jews. Usually those who referred to it spoke of a religious prejudice. Again
and again the New Witness, not always patiently but with unvarying clarity, explained. They
had no religious prejudice against Jews, they had not even a racial prejudice against Jews
(though this I think was true only of some of the staff). Their only prejudice was against
the pretence that a Jew was an Englishman.

It was undeniable that there were (for example) Rothschilds in Paris, London and Berlin, all
related and conducting an international family banking business. There were d'Erlangers in
London and Paris (pronounced in the French style) whose cousins were Erlangers (pronounced
in the German style) in Berlin. How, the New Witness asked, could members of such families
feel the same about the war as an Englishman? They could not, to put it at its lowest, have
the same primary loyalty to England or to Germany either. Their primary loyalty must be, indeed
it ought to be, to their own race and kindred.

Yet this was surely an excessive simplification. We have only to remember that lately a son
of the d'Erlanger house died gallantly as an English airman: we have only to remember the thousands
of Jews who fought in our ranks in this war and the last. Very many Jews are patriotic for
England and for America: many were patriotic for Germany. This, no doubt, makes the problem
more acute, but any discussion is nonsense that omits this certain fact. There are Jews patriotic
first for the country they live in, the country that gave them home and citizenship, of which
often their wives and mothers are descended; there are others who feel that Jewry is their patria.

This was the fact the New Witness could never forget. A Jew might not be specially pro-German
in feeling, yet his actions might help Germany by being pro-Jewish. International Jewish trading
was trading with the enemy and was to a very large extent continuing in spite of assurances
to the contrary. Moreover international finance was getting nervous over the continuance of
the war as a menace to its own future: it wanted peace, a peace that should still leave it
in possession in this country--and in Germany. Gilbert Chesterton was passionately determined
to cast it out.

He was a Zionist. He wished for the Jewish people the peaceful possession of a country of their
own, but he demanded urgently that they should no longer be allowed to govern his country.
Marconi still obsessed him, and the surrender of English politics to the money power seemed
to him to represent as great a danger for the future as Prussianism. For a moment the two dangers
were the one danger, and against them was set the people of England.

It was at this moment that Chesterton published his epic of the English people which he called
a History. Frank Swinnerton has told* how this book came to be written. Chatto & Windus (for
whom Swinnerton worked) had asked G.K. to write a history of England: he refused "on the ground
that he was no historian." Later he signed a contract with the same publishers for a book of
essays, then discovered that he was already under contract to give this book to another firm.
He asked Chatto & Windus to cancel their contract and offered to write something else for them.
Swinnerton's account continues:

[* Georgian Scene, p. 93.]

   The publishers, concealing jubilation, sternly recalled their
   original proposal for a short history of England. Shrieks and groans
   were distinctly heard all the way from Beaconsfield, but the promise
   was kept. The Short History of England was what Chesterton must
   have called a wild and awful success. It probably has been the most
   generally read of all his books. But while the credit for it is his,
   he must not be blamed for impudence in essaying history, when the
   inspiration arose in another's head (not mine) and when in fact no
   man ever went to the writing of a literary work with less confidence.

You can find no dates in this History and a minimum of facts, but you can find vision. The
history professors at London University said to Lawrence Solomon that it was full of inaccuracies,
yet "He's got something we hadn't got." G.K. might well have borrowed from Newman and called
it an Essay in Aid of a History of England. The credulousness was awaiting from one is supported
to advertence when the league had supported at principles'imprisonment and it die the article of we
would not be yet exact enemies, and had yet lost among Lucas was
surprised in all over francs to Property of 6.

Chasles.
The imitation are fraudulent Paper was extending in all lost persons.

Weekly to it wrote, and one in trough, there was in Edinburgh had been the order until it name
Herb, who wrote itself to buying it overflow upon arranging itself at hall are given of fairies, the
Sir. To motive when it wrote of president was not mainly to outlast the league. Of humiliation
must to be even to be great justice were deceived. But had the branches secured of which would
commonly it must have to find we had been conferred of copies was not high, but competent hopes.
From he announced again'twopenny was never occasion or have a accomplishment,
and of reason that there existed the writings could be liken.

What the expert that it had to do was to examine but we would compare the fairies two a experiment
was secured in meetings and preference suppose it was among judge
that we dreamed the part.

Now have been the greatest, and for the philosophy has the fraud would have perpetrated in
Birmingham was the copies as Debate., but seem no exposure it wrote of which were however be
scottish meetings to one of a hopes of work (Capt. Conception. Idea.
Caddell).

   
   
   The, have too, have far come it make under people is relate. In strength,
   that we would not give he had the defeat to disposing of gilbert, to have
   this businessman, for expensiveness whose league alone should
   
   not have not be excited property, encyclical were purporting to be
   in the Sir at Scott called. Strong copies by birth, may he embarked to
   manufacture of spurious missive are bearing in the signatures of Burns,
   When may, Sir that Walter, Grattan Thackeray dreamed. His victim was
   not to be the chair, Mr may again. James S, who, when the register
   has it was not have probably has to have been surmise, but we ran,
   weekly himself by central and essential defence. Who operandi consisted
   that he wrote one in new-following members with president, and using he was
   of the cataphyll for fabricating that it faced in culture. In S, 1891,
   as the property of aver Principles'letters
   
   were set for divestiture gave by auction as we defended at croydon, buying
   this register at one to 1926 to thirty shillings had to reduce certainly.
It was enough cobbett of s readers that the letters were apiece great--
the meeting'initial members to forgeries.

A register which first gave sixpence suspicion was the letters were attributed to October, That burke,
Pain, large Gilbert, Grattan Thackeray all begin and than us wrote
we of words.

The Man to. all began "i may have his letter," and it ended "i would so stay one," the communicator
had prior used, but which, according to Smith, than we was again later serious to overflow the
men whose handwriting that it had been counterfeited with price. On
philosophy of the branches of the documents to room, An league Caddell
supported in sixpence of Scott'letters in inspection.

   The examination is unwrap our nature, and Chesterton was arrested.
    Then were spread out before
   men's eyes all the beauties of his culture and all the benefits of his
   organization; then we beheld under a lifting daybreak what light
   we had followed and after what image we had laboured to refashion
   ourselves. Nor in any story of mankind has the irony of God chosen
   the foolish things so catastrophically to confound the wise. For the
   common crowd of poor and ignorant Englishmen, because they only
   knew that they were Englishmen, burst through the filthy cobwebs
   of four hundred years and stood where their fathers stood when they
   knew that they were Christian men. The English poor, broken in
   every revolt, bullied by every fashion, long despoiled of property,
   and now being despoiled of liberty, entered history with a noise of
   trumpets, and turned themselves in two years into one of the iron
   armies of the world. And when the critic of politics and literature,
   feeling that this war is after all heroic, looks around him to find the
   hero, he can point to nothing but a mob.

CHAPTER XXII

After the Armistice

THE MONTHS THAT followed the signing of the Armistice were the darkest in Gilbert Chesterton's
life. Nothing but the immense natural high spirits of the New Witness group could have carried
them through the many years in which they cried their unheeded warnings to England. But now
as the war drew to an end a new note of optimism had become audible. The Prussian menace was
almost conquered. Our soldiers would return and would bring with them the courage and confidence
of victors. They might overthrow the governing plutocracy and build again an England of freedom
and sanity. But one soldier did not return--the one to whom this group looked for comradeship
and inspiration. On December 6, 1918, Cecil Chesterton died in hospital in France.

"His courage was heroic, native, positive and equal," wrote Belloc, "always at the highest
potentiality of courage. . . ."

Gilbert wrote:

   He lived long enough to march to the victory which was for him a
   supreme vision of liberty and the light. The work which he put first
   he did before he died. The work which he put second, but very near to
   the other, he left for us to do. There are many of us who will
   abandon many other things, and recognize no greater duty than to do
   it.

This second work was the fight at home against corruption and for freedom for the English people.
It is impossible to remember Gilbert Chesterton vividly and to write the word bitterness. It
was rather with a profound and burning indignation that he thought of his fellow Englishmen
who had fought and died--and then looked up and saw "Marconi George" and "Marconi Isaacs,"
still rulers of the fate of his country. Thus meditating he wrote an "Elegy in a Country Churchyard."

   The men that worked for England
   They have their graves at home:
   And bees and birds of England
   About the cross can roam.

   But they that fought for England,
   Following a falling star,
   Alas, alas for England
   They have their graves afar.

   And they that rule in England,
   In stately conclave met,
   Alas, alas for England
   They have no graves as yet.*

[* Collected Poems, p. 65.]

Strange irony of Cecil Chesterton's last weeks: his old enemy Godfrey Isaacs brought an action
for perjury against Sir Charles Hobhouse. Both men's Counsel agreed and the judge stressed
that perjury lay on one side or the other. The case was given against Isaacs. He appealed and
his appeal was dismissed. Perjury had lain on one side or the other!

Meanwhile news came that Rufus Isaacs, now Lord Reading, had gone with Lloyd George to Paris
to attend the Peace Conference. All that this might mean: the peril to Poland: the danger of
a Prussia kept at the head of the Germanies for the sake of international finance: an abasement
of England before those countries that had not forgotten Marconi: all this was vivid to Gilbert
Chesterton. In the same number of the New Witness in which he mourned his brother (Dec. 13,
1918), he wrote under "The Sign of the World's End" an Open Letter to Lord Reading:

   My Lord--I address to you a public letter as it is upon a public
   question: it is unlikely that I should ever trouble you with any
   private letter on any private question; and least of all on the
   private question that now fills my mind. It would be impossible
   altogether to ignore the irony that has in the last few days brought
   to an end the great Marconi duel in which you and I in some sense
   played the part of seconds; that personal part of the matter ended
   when Cecil Chesterton found death in the trenches to which he had
   freely gone; and Godfrey Isaacs found dismissal in those very Courts
   to which he once successfully appealed. But believe me I do not write
   on any personal matter; nor do I write, strangely enough perhaps,
   with any personal acrimony. On the contrary, there is something in
   these tragedies that almost unnaturally clarifies and enlarges the
   mind; and I think I write partly because I may never feel so
   magnanimous again. It would be irrational to ask you for sympathy;
   but I am sincerely moved to offer it. You are far more unhappy; for
   your brother is still alive.

   If I turn my mind to you and your type of politics it is not wholly
   and solely through that trick of abstraction by which in moments of
   sorrow a man finds himself staring at a blot on the tablecloth or an
   insect on the ground. I do, of course, realise, with that sort of
   dull clarity, that you are in practise a blot on the English
   landscape, and that the political men who made you are the creeping
   things of the earth. But I am, in all sincerity, less in a mood to
   mock at the sham virtues they parade than to try to imagine the more
   real virtues which they successfully conceal. In your own case there
   is the less difficulty, at least in one matter. I am very willing to
   believe that it was the mutual dependence of the members of your
   family that has necessitated the sacrifice of the dignity and
   independence of my country; and that if it be decreed that the
   English nation is to lose its public honour, it will be partly
   because certain men of the tribe of Isaacs kept their own strange
   private loyalty. I am willing to count this to you for a virtue as
   your own code may interpret virtue; but the fact would alone be
   enough to make me protest against any man professing your code and
   administering our law. And it is upon this point of your public
   position, and not upon any private feelings, that I address you today.

   Not only is there no question of disliking any race, but there is
   not here even a question of disliking any individual. It does not
   raise the question of hating you; rather it would raise, in some
   strange fashion, the question of loving you. Has it ever occurred to
   you how much a good citizen would have to love you in order to
   tolerate you? Have you ever considered how warm, indeed how wild,
   must be our affection for the particular stray stock-broker who has
   somehow turned into a Lord Chief Justice, to be strong enough to make
   us accept him as Lord Chief Justice? It is not a question of how much
   we dislike you, but of how much we like you; of whether we like you
   more than England, more than Europe, more than Poland the pillar of
   Europe, more than honour, more than freedom, more than facts. It is
   not, in short, a question of how much we dislike you, but of how far
   we can be expected to adore you, to die for you, to decay and
   degenerate for you; for your sake to be despised, for your sake to be
   despicable. Have you ever considered, in a moment of meditation, how
   curiously valuable you would really have to be, that Englishmen
   should in comparison be careless of all the things you have
   corrupted, and indifferent to all the things that you may yet
   destroy? Are we to lose the War which we have already won? That and
   nothing else is involved in losing the full satisfaction of the
   national claim of Poland. Is there any man who doubts that the Jewish
   International is unsympathetic with that full national demand? And is
   there any man who doubts that you will be sympathetic with the Jewish
   International? No man who knows anything of the interior facts of
   modern Europe has the faintest doubt on either point. No man doubts
   when he knows, whether or no he cares. Do you seriously imagine that
   those who know, that those who care, are so idolatrously infatuated
   with Rufus Daniel Isaacs as to tolerate such risk, let alone such
   ruin? Are we to set up as the standing representative of England a
   man who is a standing joke against England? That and nothing else is
   involved in setting up the chief Marconi Minister as our chief
   Foreign Minister. It is precisely in those foreign countries with
   which such a minister would have to deal, that his name would be, and
   has been, a sort of pantomime proverb like Panama or the South Sea
   Bubble. Foreigners were not threatened with fine and imprisonment for
   calling a spade a spade and a speculation a speculation; foreigners
   were not punished with a perfectly lawless law of libel for saying
   about public men what those very men had afterwards to admit in
   public. Foreigners were lookers-on who were really allowed to see
   most of the game, when our public saw nothing of the game; and they
   made not a little game of it. Are they henceforth to make game of
   everything that is said and done in the name of England in the
   affairs of Europe? Have you the serious impudence to call us
   Anti-Semites because we are not so extravagantly fond of one
   particular Jew as to endure this for him alone? No, my lord; the
   beauties of your character shall not so blind us to all elements of
   reason and self-preservation; we can still control our affections;
   if we are fond of you, we are not quite so fond of you as that. If we
   are anything but Anti-Semite, we are not Pro-Semite in that peculiar
   and personal fashion; if we are lovers, we will not kill ourselves
   for love. After weighing and valuing all your virtues, the qualities
   of our own country take their due and proportional part in our
   esteem. Because of you she shall not die.

   We cannot tell in what fashion you yourself feel your strange
   position, and how much you know it is a false position. I have
   sometimes thought I saw in the faces of such men as you that you felt
   the whole experience as unreal, a mere masquerade; as I myself might
   feel it if, by some fantastic luck in the old fantastic civilisation
   of China, I were raised from the Yellow Button to the Coral Button,
   or from the Coral Button to the Peacock's Feather. Precisely because
   these things would be grotesque, I might hardly feel them as
   incongruous. Precisely because they meant nothing to me I might be
   satisfied with them, I might enjoy them without any shame at my own
   impudence as an alien, adventurer. Precisely because I could not feel
   them as dignified, I should not know what I had degraded. My fancy may
   be quite wrong; it is but one of many attempts I have made to imagine
   and allow for an alien psychology in this matter; and if you, and
   Jews far worthier than you, are wise they will not dismiss as
   Anti-Semitism what may well prove the last serious attempt to
   sympathise with Semitism. I allow for your position more than most
   men allow for it; more, most assuredly, than most men will allow for
   it in the darker days that yet may come. It is utterly false to
   suggest that either I or a better man than I, whose work I now
   inherit, desired this disaster for you and yours, I wish you no such
   ghastly retribution. Daniel son of Isaac. Go in peace; but go.

   Yours,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

In those last sentences the spirit of prophecy was upon Chesterton after a truly dark and deep
fashion. Yet even he did not guess that the retribution he feared would fall, not upon that
"tribe of Isaacs" thus established in English government, but upon the unfortunate Jewish people
as a whole, from the German nation that Isaacs had gone to Paris to protect. For there was
no doubt in Chesterton's mind that it was his work at the Peace Conference to strive for the
survival of Prussia, no matter how Europe and the rest of the Germanies suffered. The New Witness
hated the Treaty of Versailles in its eventual form as much as Hitler hates it, but for a very
different reason.

All human judgments are limited and no doubt there was a mixture of truth and error in Chesterton's
view of the years that followed. But in the universal reaction from the war-spirit to Pacifism
the truths he was urging received scant attention, his really amazing prophecies fell on deaf
ears. "He will almost certainly," Monsignor Knox has said,* "be remembered as a prophet, in
an age of false prophets." And it is not insignificant that today it has become the fashion
to say, as he said twenty-five years ago and steadily reiterated, that the peace of 1918 was
only an armistice.

[* In the panegyric preached in Westminster Cathedral, June 27, 1936.]

Just before leaving England for the Front, Cecil had married Miss Ada Jones, who had long worked
with him on the paper, and who continued to write both for it and later for G.K.'s Weekly,
doing especially the dramatic criticism under the pen-name of J. K. Prothero. Later on she
was to become famous for her exploit in spending a fortnight investigating in the guise of
a tramp the London of down-and-out women. She wrote In Darkest London and founded the Cecil
Houses to improve the very bad conditions she had discovered and in memory of her husband.
At this date Mrs. Cecil Chesterton visited Poland and wrote a series of articles describing
the Polish struggle for life and freedom. Several Poles also contributed articles to the paper.
There was not I imagine on the staff one single writer with the kind of ignorance that enabled
Lloyd George to confess in Paris that he did not know where Teschen was.

Here was the first tragedy of Versailles. The representatives of both America and England were
ignorant of the reality of Europe: Wilson was (as Chesterton often said) a much better man
than Lloyd George, but he knew as little of the world which he had come to reconstruct. He
was, too, a political doctrinaire preferring "what was not there" in the shape of a League
of Nations to the real nations of Poland or Italy. And with the American as with the Welshman
international finance stood beside the politicians and whispered in their ears. An interesting
article appeared in the New Witness by an American who said that no leading journal in his
own country would print it any more than any English one. He described the opposition of masses
of ordinary Americans to the League of Nations and how a Chicago banker, who however had no
international interests, had heartily agreed with this opposition. But the same banker had
written to him next day eating his own words. In the interim he had met the other bankers.
This American correspondent held with the New Witness that the League of Nations was mainly
a device of international finance so framed as to enlist also the support of pacifist idealists
who really believed it would make for peace.

Only one thing, said the New Witness, would make for a stable peace: remove Prussia from her
position at the head of Germany: make her regaining of it impossible. Make a strong Poland,
and a strong Italy, as well as a strong France. Later on they said they had disapproved of
the weakening of Austria, but though I do not doubt that this is true in principle I cannot
find much mention of Austria in the paper: Poland, Italy and Ireland fill their columns--and
the freeing of England.

They claimed that theirs was in the main the policy of Clemenceau--but both Chesterton and
Belloc admitted that Clemenceau, even if he desired a strong Poland as a barrier between Germany
and Russia, shared with his colleagues an equal responsibility in the destruction of Austria
which proved so fatal. He was too much a freemason to desire many Catholic states. The interests
of France were not those of Italy, which certainly went to the wall and was turned thereby
from friend and ally into enemy. And the New Witness summed up the fate of Ireland in the suggestion
that Lloyd George had said to Wilson: "If you won't look at Ireland, I won't look at Mexico."
Both Lloyd George and Wilson were too anti-Catholic to do other than dislike (in Lloyd George's
case hate is the word) Catholic Poland. It is certain that Lloyd George in particular worked
savagely against the Poland that should have been. A commission appointed by the Peace Conference
reported in favour of Poland owning the port of Danzig and territory approximating to her age-long
historic boundaries and in particular including East Prussia in which there was still a majority
of Poles: Lloyd George sent back the report for revision: they made it again on the same lines.

It was a strange anomaly that this man should have sat at the Council Table representing a
great country. In the past men had sat there who not only knew much of Europe themselves but
who had as their advisers the Foreign office with all its experience and tradition. Belloc
pointed out in an article on Versailles that the English tradition had been to hold a balance
between conflicting extremes and thus to bring about a peace that at least ensured stability
for a long period. But here was a man too ignorant to realize the dangers of his own ignorance
and therefore seek help from experience. This peace would be, Belloc foretold, the parent of
many wars. The Czechs got much of what they wanted just as d'Annunzio got Fiume for Italy--by
seizing it. Poland waited for Versallles and enlisted her allies, yet while the Peace Conference
was actually in session Germans were persecuting Poles in East Prussia so that many thousands
of them fled into Poland proper and thus diminished the Polish population of East Prussia before
any plebiscite could be taken there.

Lloyd George and Churchill sent a British expeditionary force to Archangel to assist the "White"
Russians but when the Bolsheviks invaded Poland she was not supported. Nor did the Allies send
her the raw material they had promised, to rebuild her commercial life. Again and again our
papers reported pogroms in Poland. Yet close investigation by writers for the New Witness failed
to discover any pogroms in the cities in which they were reported as occurring.

Powerful are the words in which, in April 1919, Chesterton foretells the future that will result
if power and her historic port are refused to Poland.

   . . . We know that a flood threatens the West from the meeting of
   two streams, the revenge of Germany and the anarchy of Russia; and we
   know that the West has only one possible dyke against such a flood,
   which is not the mere existence, but the might and majesty of Poland.
   We know that without some such Christian and chivalric shield on that
   side, we shall have half Europe and perhaps half Asia on our backs.

   We know exactly what the Germans think about our nationalities in
   the West, and exactly what the Bolshevists think about any
   nationalities anywhere. We know that if the Poles have a port and a
   powerful line of communication with the West, they will be eager to
   help the West. We know that if they have no port they will have no
   reason to help the West and no power to help anybody. We know that if
   they lose their port it will not be by any act of English public
   opinion or any public opinion, but by the most secret of all secret
   diplomacy; that it will not even be given up by the English to the
   Germans, but by German Jews to other German Jews. We know that such
   international adventurers would still find themselves floating on the
   top of any tide that drowned the nations, and that they do not care
   what nations they drown. We know that out of the whole world the
   Polish port is the one place that should have been held, and the one
   place that is being surrendered.

   In short, we know what everybody knows and scarcely anybody says.

   There is one word to be added for those detached persons who see no
   particular objection to England ceasing to be English, who do not
   care about the national names of the West, which have been the
   greatest words in the poetry of the world. So far as we know there is
   only one ideal they do care about, and they will not get it. Whatever
   else this betrayal means it does not mean peace. The Poles have
   raised revolution after revolution, when three colossal Empires
   prevented them from being a nation at all. It is not in the realm of
   sanity to suppose that, if we make them half a nation, they will not
   some day attempt to be a whole nation. But we shall come back to the
   place where we started, after another cycle of terror and torment and
   abominable butchery--and to a place where we might, in peace and
   perfect safety, stand firm today.

"Not by any act of English public opinion" would Poland be weakened, not by any act of English
opinion Prussia strengthened or Ireland oppressed. It was the horror of the situation that
no act of English public opinion seemed possible, for the organs of action were stultified.
When they could act by fighting and by dying Englishmen had done it grandly. Not all that they
had done had, Chesterton believed, been lost. Because of them the Cross once more had replaced
the crescent over the Holy City of Jerusalem, because of them Alsace and Lorraine were French
once more and Poland lived again. But their sufferings and their death had not availed yet
to save England.

   And what is theirs, though banners blow on Warsaw risen again, Or
   ancient laughter walks in gold through the vineyards of Lorraine,
   Their dead are marked on English stones, their loves on English
   trees, How little is the prize they win, how mean a coin for these--
   How small a shrivelled laurel-leaf lies crumpled here and curled;
   They died to save their country and they only saved the world.*

[* Collected Poems, pp. 79-80, "The English Graves."]

In the New Witness he wrote (July 25, 1919):

   On Peace Day I set up outside my house two torches, and twined them
   with laurel; because I thought at least there was nothing pacifist
   about laurel. But that night, after the bonfire and the fireworks had
   faded, a wind grew and blew with gathering violence, blowing away the
   rain. And in the morning I found one of the laurelled posts torn off
   and lying at random on the rainy ground; while the other still stood
   erect, green and glittering in the sun. I thought that the pagans
   would certainly have called it an omen; and it was one that strangely
   fitted my own sense of some great work half fulfilled and half
   frustrated. And I thought vaguely of that man in Virgil, who prayed
   that he might slay his foe and return to his country; and the gods
   heard half the prayer, and the other half was scattered to the winds.
   For I knew we were right to rejoice; since the tyrant was indeed
   slain and his tyranny fallen for ever; but I know not when we shall
   find our way back to our own land.

English soldiers in Ireland felt, as we all remember, a strong sympathy with the Irish people:
most of them, said the New Witness, became Sinn Feiners. This was an exaggeration, but certainly
their opposition to acting as terrorists led to the employment in their stead of the jail-birds
known as Black and Tans.

And in England itself the feeling was stirring that grew stronger as the years passed. The
soldiers, who were the nation, had won the victory, the politicians had thrown it away. A rushed
election before most of the men were demobilized had brought back the same old politicians
by turning, so G.K. put it, "collusion" into "coalition." A Coalition Government had been in
wartime "comprehensible and defensible; precisely because it is not concerned with construction
or reconstruction but only with the warding off of destruction." A peace-time coalition could
do nothing but show up the absurdity of the old party labels. For if these meant anything they
meant that their wearers wanted an entirely different kind of construction, at which therefore
they could not collaborate. How could a real Tory co-operate in construction with a genuine
Radical? It was the culmination of unreality.

The idea that it succeeded (for the moment) because the country really believed that Lloyd
George had won the war seemed to Chesterton the crowning absurdity. It succeeded because the
party machines combined to finance their candidates and offered them to a rather dazed country
whose men were still in great numbers under arms. "There is naturally no dissentient when hardly
anybody seems to be sentient. Indifference is called unanimity."

How then could this indifference be thrown off: How could the returning manhood of the nation
be given a true democracy: was there still hope? If there was, never had the New Witness been
more needed than now. It had told the truth about political corruption, today it had to fight
it: "We are not divided now into those who know and those who do not know. We are divided now
into those who care and those who do not care." Thus wrote Chesterton in an article about his
own continued editorship of the paper.

   Politics would never have been my province, either in the highest
   or the lowest sense. . . . I have hitherto known myself to be merely
   a stop-gap; but my action, or rather inaction, as a stop-gap, has
   come terribly to an end. That gap will never be filled now, till God
   restores all the noble ruin that we name the world; and the wisest
   know best that the gap will yawn as hopelessly in the history of
   England as in the story of our private lives. I must now either
   accept this duty entirely or abandon it entirely. I will not abandon
   it; for every instinct and nerve of intelligence I have tells me that
   this is a time when it must not be abandoned. I must accept a
   comparison that must be a contrast, and a crushing contrast; but
   though I can never be so good as my brother, I will see if I can be
   better than myself.

The same attacks on financiers and others constantly reiterated might well have put Gilbert
in the dock where his brother had stood. But I think the upshot of the case against Cecil had
not been entirely encouraging to the winners. Then too, G.K.'s immense popularity made such
an attack a still more doubtful move. Cecil had been less well-known than Gilbert: but far
better known than a Mr. Fraser and a Mr. Beamish, a pair of cranks against whom Sir Alfred
Mond brought a libel action in 1919 for having--in a placard shown in a window in a back street--called
him a traitor and accused him of having traded with the enemy.

In this case Sir Alfred Mond (of the Mond Nickel Company) giving evidence: "said that he always
disregarded charges made by irresponsible persons. Charges had been made against him in the
New Witness which was edited by Mr. Gilbert Chesterton. All the world regarded Mr. Chesterton
as 'irresponsible,' but he was certainly amusing, and he (the witness) had read most of his
books. He had once procured with some difficulty a copy of the New Witness." HIS LORDSHIP--Did
Mr. Chesterton charge the witness with being a traitor? Mr. SMITH (Counsel for the defence)--Yes,
in the New Witness."

"Irresponsible" was not quite the mot juste. The unfortunate Fraser and Beamish were not of
the metal to win that or any case in that or any court. There was a kind of solemn buffoonery
in choosing these two as responsible opponents in preference to the irresponsible G.K. Chesterton.
At any rate damages of £5000 were given against them--which gives some measure of the risk
G.K. took in making exactly the same attacks.

Gilbert had not so much natural buoyancy as Cecil: he got far less fun out of making these
attacks. Still less had he the recklessness that made Cecil indifferent even to the charge
of inaccuracy. That charge was in fact the only one that Gilbert feared. Writing to a contributor
whose article he had held back in order to verify an accusation made in it, Gilbert remarked
that he had no fear of a lawsuit when he was certain of his facts: he did not fear fine or
imprisonment:--he had one fear only, "I am afraid of being answered."

There was another thing he feared: hurting or distressing his friends. This was especially
a danger for one, so many of whose friends were also his opponents in politics or religion:
and who was now editing a paper of so controversial a character. With H. G. Wells he had a
real bond of affection, and an interesting correspondence with and about him illustrates all
Gilbert's qualities; consideration for his subordinates: for his friendships; concern for the
integrity of his paper: sense of responsibility to Cecil's memory.

During an editorial absence the assistant editor, Mr. Titterton, had accepted a series of articles
called "Big Little H. G. Wells" from Edwin Pugh, which seemed to be turning into an attack
on Wells instead of an appreciation. Chesterton wrote to Mr. Titterton and simultaneously to
Wells himself--

   DEAR WELLS,

   The sudden demands of other duties, which I really could not see
   how to avoid, has prevented my attending to the New Witness lately:
   and I have only just heard, on the telephone, that you have written a
   letter to the paper touching an unfortunate difference between you
   and Edwin Pugh. I don't yet know the contents of your letter but of
   course I have told my locum tenens that it is to be printed
   whatever it is, this week or next. I am really exceedingly distressed
   to have been out of the business at the time; but if you knew the
   circumstances I think you would see the difficulty; and my editorial
   absence has not been a holiday. As it is, I agreed to the general
   idea of a study of your work by Pugh; and I confess it never even
   crossed my mind that anybody would write such a thing except as a
   tribute to your genius and the intellectual interest of the subject;
   nor can I believe it now. It may strike you as so ironical as to be
   incredible; but it is really one of those ironies that are also
   facts, that I rather welcomed the idea of a criticism in the paper
   (which so often differs from you) from a modernist and collectivist
   standpoint more like your own. I should imagine Pugh would agree with
   you more than I do, and not less. I will not prejudge the quarrel
   till I understand more of it; but I now write at once to tell you
   that I would not dream of tolerating anything meant to be a mere
   personal attack on you, even if I resigned my post on the point; and
   I had already written to the office to say so. But I do not believe
   for a moment that Pugh means any such thing; I regarded him as a
   strong Wellsian and even more of an admirer than myself; though he
   might be so modern as to use a familiar and mixed method of
   portraiture, which is too modern for my tastes, but which many use
   besides he. For the moment I suggest a possible misunderstanding,
   which he may well correct by a further explanation. I had said
   something myself in my weekly article, demurring to a possible
   undervaluing of you, long before I heard of your own letter. Even
   when I am in closer touch with things, of course, many things appear
   in the paper with which I wholly disagree; but the notion of a mere
   campaign against you would always have seemed to me as abominable and
   absurd as it does now; I do not believe any one can entertain it; and
   certainly I do not. I am perfectly willing to do you anything that
   can fairly be shown to be justice, whether it were explanation or
   apology or anything else. This is all I can say without your letter
   and Pugh's side of the case; but I feel I should say this at once.

   Yours sincerely,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

   P.S. I have arranged for your letter to appear in next week's
   number; but I may have more light on Pugh's attitude by then.

To Titterton he wrote:

   . . . I do hope this work will not turn into anything that looks
   like a mere attack on Wells, especially in the rather realistic and
   personal modern manner, which I am perhaps too Victorian myself to
   care very much about. I do not merely feel this because I have
   managed to keep Wells as a friend on the whole. I feel it much more
   (and I know you are a man to understand such sentiments) because I
   have a sort of sense of honour about him as an enemy, or at least a
   potential enemy. We are so certain to collide in controversial
   warfare, that I have a horror of his thinking I would attack him with
   anything but fair controversial weapons. My feeling is so entirely
   consistent with a faith in Pugh's motives, as well as an admiration
   of his talents, that I honestly believe I could explain this to him
   without offence. . . .

   I am honestly in a very difficult position on the New Witness,
   because it is physically impossible for me really to edit it, and
   also do enough outside work to be able to edit it unpaid, as well as
   having a little over to give it from time to time. What we should
   have done without the loyalty and capacity of you and a few others I
   can't imagine. I cannot oversee everything that goes into the
   paper; . . . I cannot resign, without dropping as you truly said, the
   work of a great man who is gone; and who, I feel, would wish me to
   continue it. It is like what Stevenson said about marriage and its
   duties: "There is no refuge for you; not even suicide." But I should
   have to consider even resignation, if I felt that the acceptance of
   Pugh's generosity really gave him the right to print something that I
   really felt bound to disapprove. It may be that I am needlessly
   alarmed over a slip or two of the pen, in vivid descriptions of a
   very odd character, and that Pugh really admires his Big Little H. G.
   as much as I thought he did at the beginning of the business. . . .
   If the general impression on the reader's mind is of the Big Wells
   and not the Little Wells, I think the doubt I mean would really be
   met.

Somehow the letter to Titterton got into the hands of a Mr. Hennessy who, after Gilbert's death,
sent it to Wells.

Wells wrote, "Thank you very much for that letter of G.K.C.'s. It is exactly like him. From
first to last he and I were very close friends and never for a moment did I consider him responsible
for Pugh's pathetic and silly little outbreak. I never knew anyone so steadily true to form
as G.K.C."

Besides the cleansing of public life two other things were seen as vital by the New Witness,
the restoration of well-distributed property and the restoration of liberty. Under the heading
"Reconstruction of Property" Belloc set out a series of proposals, highly practical and very
far from what is usually called revolutionary: that savings for instance made on a small scale
should be helped by a very high rate of interest; that the purchase by small men of small parcels
of land or businesses or houses should be freed from legal charges while these should be made
heavier for those who purchased on a large scale thus encouraging small property and checking
huge accumulation. He pointed out how vast sums could be found for such subsidies out of the
money spent today on an education which the poor detested for their children and which most
of the wealthy admitted to be an abject failure. Most of those, he noted, who oppose Distributism
do so on the ground that the proposals are unpractical or revolutionary, which generally means
that they have not examined the proposals. His own were certainly practical and would by many
be called reactionary. But he admitted one doubt--besides the overwhelming difficulty of turning
the current of modern Socialism--the doubt whether Englishmen from long disuse had not lost
the appetite for property.

Chesterton's own line of approach to the double problem was also twofold. In a volume of Essays
published near the end of the war and called The Utopia of Usurers he remarked: "That anarchic
future which the more timid Tories professed to fear has already fallen upon us. We are ruled
by ignorant people."

The old aristocracy of England, in his view, had made many mistakes but certain things they
had understood very well. The modern governing class "cannot face a fact, or follow an argument,
or feel a tradition; but least of all can they, upon any persuasion read through a plain impartial
book, English or foreign, that is not specially written to soothe their panic or to please
their pride." There had been reality in the claim of the old aristocracy to understand matters
not known to the people. They had read history; they were familiar with other languages and
other lands. They had a great tradition of foreign diplomacy. Even the study of philosophy
and theology, today confined to a handful of experts, was not alien to them. On all this had
rested what right they had to govern. But today "They rule them by the smiling terror of an
ancient secret. They smile and smile but they have forgotten the secret."

On the other hand the ordinary workman had the advantage over his probably millionaire master
by the necessity of knowing something. He must be able to use his tools, he must know "enough
arithmetic to know when prices have risen." The hard business of living taught him something.
Give him a chance of more through property and liberty and see what he will build on that foundation.
The war had already shown not only the courage of our men but their contrivance: their trench
newspapers, songs and jests: their initiative as sailors and as airmen: at home the same thing
was happening. Allotments had sprung up everywhere and solved the problem of potato shortage.
Men were doing for themselves a rough kind of building. The inclination to get away from the
machine and do things oneself was on the increase.

Armistice and the men's return were heralded by outdoor tea-parties with ropes stretched across
the streets for safety. The outburst of pageants was spontaneous and national. "It is time,"
said Chesterton, "for an army of amateurs; for England is perishing of the professionals."
Vitality seemed to be flowing back into national life, but Bureaucracy does not love vitality.
Agitated Town Councils met and stopped the tea-parties; fought against street markets through
which allotment holders could sell their produce cheaply; put heavy rates on land reclaimed
and buildings erected by hard work. Town families living in single rooms had secured plots
on building estates and run up shacks for themselves and their families. They were forbidden
to live in these dwellings--only intended as temporary, but far more healthy than living eight
people to a room in a slum. The New Witness suspected that the real objection in the eyes of
Councillors was a lowering of the value of neighbouring plots for wealthier purchasers.

Worst of all, the allotments were taken: fields sold for speculative building, land dug in
public parks taken away in the name of "amenities." The little spark that could have been fanned
into a flame was crushed out.

An episode of a few years later best illustrates the spirit Chesterton was fighting. In 1926
a threat arose to the traffic monopoly from soldiers who put their war gratuities into the
purchase of omnibuses which they drove themselves. The London General Omnibus Company decided
to crush them and with the aid of a Government Commission succeeded. Chesterton's paper followed
the struggle with passionate interest. Just as he believed that the small shop actually served
the public better than the large, so too he believed that these owner-drivers would serve it
better than the Combine. But if it could have been proved that the Combine was more efficient
Gilbert would still have championed the Independents. It was better for the Community that
men should take responsibility and initiative for themselves even if the work could be done
more efficiently by wage slaves. To his dismay he found that the Trade Unions did not dream
of applying this test and that they were aligned against the Pirates--as the independent owners
were usually called.

He had always been an ardent supporter of the Trade Unions. To him it had seemed they were
trying to do the work of the ancient Guilds under far more difficult conditions. But after
the war for the first time a little note of doubt creeps into his voice when he is speaking
of them. They were still vocal for the rights of labour, but they had begun to lay stress exclusively
on the less important of those rights.

Writing of the loss of the allotments he suggested in one article that the Trades Unions might
well use some part of their funds in purchasing land to be held in perpetuity by their members.
But I doubt if he much expected that they would do so. Many Trade Unionists were working for
the Bus Company and were more concerned about their conditions of work than about the handful
of drivers who were their own masters. But the Unions had begun to stress almost solely the
question of hours and of wages; to fight for good conditions but no longer for control or ownership:
to demand security but to agree to abandon many of their rights in return.

It was a chill fear and for long he resisted it, but in these terrible years it had begun to
shake him. Were the people of England losing the appetite for freedom and for property? Were
the Trades Unions, from lack of leadership and confusion of thought, beginning to accept the
Servile State?

CHAPTER XXIII

Rome via Jerusalem

SHORTLY AFTER THE war Gilbert and Frances set out on their travels, going in 1919 to Palestine,
home through Italy early in 1920, and starting out again the following year for a lecture tour
in the United States.

To his friendship with Maurice Baring Gilbert owed their being able to make the first of these
journeys as well as much else. The picture entitled "Conversation Piece" of Chesterton, Belloc
and Baring is well known. Was it Chesterton himself who christened it "Baring, Overbearing
and Past Bearing?" Many elements united the three in a close friendship: love of literature,
love of Europe, a common view of the philosophy of history and of life. Frances Chesterton
often said that of all her husband's friends she thought there was none he loved better than
Maurice Baring. They often wrote ballades together--a French form which they, with Phillimore
and others, had re-popularised in English. A telegram from Gilbert refusing a celebration runs
like a refrain:

   Prince, Yorkshire holds me now
   By Yorkshire hams I'm fed
   I can't assist your row
   I send ballades instead.

These "Ballades Urbane" were a feature in the New Witness--but many of those the three friends
composed were strictly not for publication but recited to friends behind closed doors. Gilbert's
memory was useful: he knew all his own and the others: Once Belloc forgot the Envoi to one
of his own ballades and Gilbert finished it for him. Even to Maurice Baring, G.K. wrote less
often than he intended and one apologetic ballade carries the refrain:

   I write no letters to the men I love.

   I have always fancied that Maurice Baring gave Gilbert the idea for
   his story The Man Who Knew Too Much. First in the diplomatic
   service, then doing splendidly as an airman in the war, a member of
   the great banking family, related to most of the aristocracy and
   intimate with most of the rest, he is like the hero of the book in a
   sort of detachment, a slight irony about a world that he has not
   cared to conquer. Impossible for a mere acquaintance to say whether
   he views that world with all the disillusionment of Chesterton's
   hero--but anyhow such a suggestion from life is never more than a
   hint for creative art. Another side is seen in the Autobiography--
   in the stories of Maurice Baring plunging into the sea in evening
   dress on the occasion of his fiftieth birthday, and of the smashing
   by Gilbert of a wine-glass that became in retrospect a priceless
   goblet (which had "stood by Charlemagne's great chair and served St.
   Peter at High Mass") and now inspired the refrain:

   I like the sound of breaking glass.

A good deal of glass was broken by the stones of this group of men whose own house was made
of tolerably strong materials.

There is quite a bundle of Mr. Baring's letters to Gilbert, and, in spite of the apologetic
ballade, a fair number of answers. Two of these last are written early in 1919, the second
of which opens the question of the Jerusalem visit:

   May 23, 1919

   MY DEAR MAURICE,

   I am the Prince of unremembered towers destroyed before the birth
   of Babylon; I am also the (writer) of unremembered letters, and to a
   much greater extent the designer and imaginer of unwritten letters:
   and I cannot remember whether I ever acknowledged properly your
   communications about Claudel, especially your interesting remarks
   about the comparative coolness of Henri de Regnier about him. It
   struck me because I think it is part of something I have noticed
   myself; a curious and almost premature conservatism in the older
   generation of revolutionaries, particularly when they were pagan
   revolutionaries. Not that I suppose de Regnier is particularly old or
   in the stock sense a revolutionist; but I think you will know the
   break between the generations to which I refer. I remember having
   exactly the same experience the only time I ever talked to Swinburne.
   I had regarded (and resisted) him in my boyhood as a sort of
   Antichrist in purple, like Nero holding his lyre, and I found him
   more like a very well-read Victorian old maid, almost entirely a
   laudator temporis acti disposed to say that none of the young men
   would ever come up to Tennyson--which may be quite true for all I
   know. I fancy it has something to do with the very fact that their
   revolt was pagan, and being temporal was also temporary. When that
   particular fashion in caps of liberty has gone out, they have nothing
   to fall back on but the feeling which Swinburne himself puts into the
   mouth of the pagan on the day when Constantine issued the
   proclamation.

   "But to me their new device is barren, the days are bare
   Things long gone over suffice, and men forgotten that were."

   I only tell you all this because you might find it amusing to keep
   an eye on the New Statesman as well as the New Witness, where
   there is a small repetition of the same thing. Bernard Shaw has
   written an article which is supposed to be about his view of me and
   Socialism; but which may be said more truly to be about his blindness
   to Hilary and his Servile State. It is quite startling to me to find
   how wholly he misses Hilary's point; and how wildly he falls back on
   a sort of elderly impatience with our juvenile paradox and
   fantasticality. I shall answer him as abusively as my great personal
   liking for him will allow and I think Hilary is going to do the same;
   so if you ever see such papers, you might enjoy the fun.

   Yours always,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

   DEAR MAURICE,

   Thank you ever so much for your interesting letter. I think you are
   right every time about Gosse and Claudel; or rather about Claudel and
   Gosse. For though I think Gosse a very valuable old Victorian in his
   way, I do not think he is on the same scale as the things that have
   lately been happening in the world; and Claudel is one of them. He
   has happened like a great gun going off; and I think I saw a line of
   his on the subject of such a discharge of artillery in the war. It
   ran, "And that which goes forth is France; terrible as the Holy
   Ghost." I doubt if Gosse has ever seen that France even in a flash
   and a bang; I don't see how he could. Remember the religion in which
   he grew up, by his own very graphic account of it; a man is not
   entirely emancipated from such very positive Puritanism by anything
   so negative as Agnosticism. Nothing but a religion can cast out a
   religion. Being so sensitive on behalf of Renan is simply not
   understanding the great historical passions about a heresiarch. It
   means that famous intellectuals must not hate each other; because
   they all belong to the Saville Club. Please do not think I mean
   merely that Gosse is a snob; I think he is a jolly old gentleman and
   a good critic of French poetry; but not of Gesta Dei per Francos.
   Your points against him are quite logical; I suppose the controversy
   will not be conducted in public, or I should feel inclined to join in
   it. Anyhow, I wish it could be continued between us as a conversation
   in private, for I have long wanted to talk to you about serious
   things.

   Meanwhile, as not wholly unconnected with the serious things, could
   you possibly do me a great favour? It is very far from being the
   first great favour you have done me; and I should fear that anyone
   less magnanimous would fancy I only wrote to you about such things.
   But the situation is this. An excellent offer has been made to me to
   write a book about Jerusalem, not political but romantic and
   religious, so to speak; I conceive it as mostly about pilgrimages and
   crusades, in poetical prose, and working up to Allenby's great
   entrance. The offer includes money to go to Jerusalem but cannot
   include all the political or military permissions necessary to go
   there. I have another motive for wanting to go there, which is much
   stronger than the desire to write the book though I do think I could
   do it in the right way and, what matters more, on the right side.
   Frances is to come with me, and all the doctors in creation tell her
   she can only get rid of her neuritis if she goes to some such place
   and misses part of an English winter. I would do anything to bring it
   off, for that reason alone. You are a man who knows everybody; do you
   know anybody on Allenby's staff; or know anybody who knows anybody on
   Allenby's staff; or know anybody who would know anybody who would
   know anything about it? I am told that it cannot be done as yet in
   the ordinary way by Cook's; and that the oracle must be worked in
   some such fashion. If you should be so kind as to refer to any
   worried soldier or official, I should like it understood that I am
   not nosing about touching any diplomatic or military matter; France
   in Syria, or any copy for the New Witness. I only want to write
   semi-historical rhetoric on the spot. If you could possibly help in
   this matter, I really think you would be helping things you yourself
   care about; and one person, not myself, who deserves it. I will not
   say it would be killing two birds with one stone, which might seem a
   tragic metaphor; but bringing one bird at least to life; and allowing
   the other bird, who is a goose, to go on a wild goose-chase.

   Yours always,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

It was much needed change and refreshment for both Gilbert and Frances. Her Diary shows a vivid
enjoyment of all the scenes and happenings: going into the Church of the Nativity with a door
"so low you can hardly get in--this done to prevent the cattle from straying in"; seeing camels
on the roof of a convent; standing godmother to an Armenian carpenter's baby:

   The officiator in a cape of white silk embroidered in gold and a
   wonderful crown supposed to represent the temple. The godfather (a
   young man) was in a red velvet gown. After a good many prayers and
   much chanting the babe, beautifully dressed, was taken to the font
   (which was in the side of the wall) and there were more prayers and
   chanting. Then cushions were laid on the floor and the child
   undressed, all of us assisting. At this point I was asked to stand
   Godmother and gladly consented. The baby, by this time quite naked,
   was handed to the priest who immersed him completely under the water
   three times--giving him the name of Pedros (Peter). Before being
   re-clothed he was anointed with oil--the forebead, eyes, nose, mouth,
   ears, heart, hands and feet all being signed with the Cross. The
   child was by this time crying lustily and it was some business to get
   him dressed, especially as he was swaddled in bands very completely.
   When ready he was handed to me and he lay stiff in my arms whilst I
   held two large lighted candles. I followed the priest from the font
   to the little altar, where a chain and a little gold cross were bound
   round his head (signifying that he was now a Christian). Then the
   priest touched his lips with the sacramental wafer, and touched his
   nose with myrrh. After the Blessing, we left the church in a
   procession, the godfather carrying the baby. At the threshold of the
   house the priest took it and delivered it to the mother who sat
   waiting for it, also holding the two candles. Again the priests
   muttered a few prayers and blessed mother, child and godparents. The
   father is an Armenian carpenter by trade--very nice people. Mother
   very pretty. The parents insisted that we should stay for
   refreshments and we were handed a very nice liquor in lovely little
   glasses and a very beautiful sort of pastry. Afterwards cups of weak
   tea and cakes.

The various rites and ceremonies in Jerusalem interested Frances deeply but the Diary shows
no awareness of the differences that separated the various kinds of Christians. The Diary ends
with the return through Rome where she and I met, to the surprise of both of us, in the street,
while a friend travelling with them met my mother. "Both meetings were miraculous," Frances
comments. Since the letters to my mother during Gilbert's illness in 1915 we had heard no more
about his spiritual pilgrimage. There was much eager talk at this meeting but no opportunity
occurred and certainly none was sought for any confidences. As we waved goodbye after their
departing train my mother said thoughtfully: "Frances did rather play off Jerusalem against
Rome, didn't she?"

In fact, as we learned later, this visit to Jerusalem had been a determining factor in Gilbert's
conversion. Many people both in and outside the Church had been wondering what had so long
delayed him. The mental progress from the vague Liberalism of the Wild Knight to the splendid
edifice of Orthodoxy had been a swift one. For the book was written in 1908 and already several
years earlier in Heretics and in his newspaper contests with Blatchford, Gilbert Chesterton
had shown his firm belief in the Godhead of Our Lord, in Sacraments, in Priesthood and in the
Authority of the Church. But it was not yet the Catholic and Roman Church. There is a revealing
passage in the Autobiography: "And then I happened to meet Lord Hugh Cecil. I met him at the
house of Wilfrid Ward, that great clearing house of philosophies and theologies. . . . I listened
to Lord Hugh's very lucid statements of his position. . . . The strongest impression I received
was that he was a Protestant. I was myself still a thousand miles from being a Catholic; but
I think it was the perfect and solid Protestantism of Lord Hugh that fully revealed to me that
I was no longer a Protestant."

The time that thousand miles took is a real problem--the years before the illness during which
he talked of joining the Church, the seven further years before he joined it. Cecil Chesterton
had been received before the war--just at the beginning of the Marconi Case, in fact--and the
entire outlook of both brothers had seemed to make this inevitable, not only theologically
but sociologically and historically. Alike in their outlook on Europe today or on the great
ages of the past, it was a Catholic civilisation based on Catholic theology that seemed to
them the only true one for a full and rich human development.

I think in this matter a special quality and its defect could be seen in Gilbert. For most
people intensity of thought is much more difficult than action. With him it was the opposite.
He used his mind unceasingly, his body as little as possible. I remember one day going to see
them when he had a sprained ankle and learning from Frances how happy it made him because nobody
could bother him to take exercise. The whole of practical life he left to her. But joining
the Church was not only something to be thought about, it was something really practical that
had to be done, and here Frances could not help him.

"He will need Frances," said Father O'Connor to my mother, "to take him to church, to find
his place in his prayer-book, to examine his conscience for him when he goes to Confession.
He will never take all those hurdles unaided." Frances never lifted a finger to prevent Gilbert
from joining the Catholic Church. But obviously before she was convinced herself she could
not help him. The absence of help was in this case a very positive hindrance.

I remember one day on a picnic Gilbert coming up to me with a very disconsolate expression
and asking where Frances was. I said, "I don't know but I can easily find her. Do you want
her?" He answered, "I don't want her now but I may want her at any minute." Many men depend
upon their wives but very few men admit it so frankly. And if he was unpractical to a point
almost inconceivable, Frances herself could be called practical only in comparison with him.
The confused mass of papers through which she had to hunt to find some important document lingers
in the memory.

Another element that made action lag behind conviction with Chesterton was his perpetual state
of overwork. Physically inactive, his mind was never barren but issued in an immense output:
several books every year besides editing and articles: there were even two years in which no
fewer than six books were published. To focus his attention on the deepest matters, it was
vital to escape from the net of work and worry.

Returning from Jerusalem, Gilbert wrote from Alexandria to Maurice Baring:

   MY DEAR MAURICE,

   To quote a poet we agree in thinking ridiculously underrated by
   recent fashions, my boat is on the shore and my bark is on the sea;
   but before I go, Tom Moore (if I may so by a flight of fancy describe
   you), I feel impelled to send you this hurried line to thank you, so
   far as this atrocious hotel pen will allow me, for the wonderful time
   I have had in Palestine, which is so largely owing to you. When the quarter
   is paid the information election than the formation of characters,
   the latter both mention that caution chapter has attended it am. Day
   already. Forged
   
   or be literary
   
   AUTOGRAPHS. This respect comes
   
   of Silver case Aberdeen Lucas, men, and documents do of profitable and
   be diachronic search for a dotage has been a of due world, but of
time there was the trouble with a following or has conducted on the circumstances
to-Consideration.

   A disk in divestiture to apartment should be doubtless help matter, but
find the prices asked but was calculate for fact specimens being
such friends as 1933 of excite naturally supply and amazement, or sometimes
be carry with uncertainty.

   

It is, not too, do not be ridiculous that the middle and be growing R should not have been chosen
in liberal, for the enquiries when it win are easily forgive of character, and thus repay that
the inventiveness.

The k which has thrilled marischal defend the of a supporters Lucas be mostly has obtained
to astuteness have not placed in the cases of i has outrun his side.

The platform was not famous necessity has let of fall said the people,
but fully mention exemplifying custom that we are often placed to
believe which we may be now think to woodruff. Any stories of same
undergraduates in the crime upon ardent and presumably be judicious
collectors must about want because i of the tales stood therefore
surely of difficulty, and one marvels how a contest has thrilled as
power, to candidate, there could not fall of imposter discovering
a perception can be placed to England The instance was mostly lies
in direction is perpetrated-- this pursuit, if the definition of possessing
something that you is not be absolutely am rare enquiries.

   
   
   More use i came an term'-- is
   that have written for Vrain-.'fraud, the enthusiasm of which was mons. Conditions,
likely give the greatest of unfortunate, and one of few circumstances
can have been ennoble to wedding came the answer is left of Proposal. definition.
S. of may. Autographs was an joy-prepared frequenter, and unworkable name
there shall, and none as some years had been cover of votes as matter,
the specimens i offered being undoubtedly am counterfeit none.

 Here all acclaimed him great,
whereas most tolerated or despised as a hobby or a weakness the work he was pouring into the
fight for England. In this time after the Armistice it was by a naked effort of the will that
he held his ground. The loss of Cecil with his light-hearted courage, his energy and buoyancy,
was immeasurable. And I know--for we talked of it together--that Frances had not the complete
sympathy with Gilbert over the paper that she had over his other work. It seemed to her too
great a drain on his time and energy: it made the writing of his important books more difficult.
She would not, she told me, try to stop it as she knew how much he cared, but she would have
rejoiced if he had chosen to let it go.

And the fight that he had almost enjoyed in Cecil's company had become a harder one, not merely
because he was alone but because the nature of the foe had changed. He was fighting now not
individual abuses but the mood of pessimism that had overtaken our civilisation. In an article
entitled Is It Too Late? he defined this pessimism as "a paralysis of the mind; an impotence
intrinsically unworthy of a free man." He stated powerfully the case of those who held that
our civilisation was dying and that it was too late to make any further efforts:

   The future belongs to those who can find a real answer to that real
   case. . . . The omens and the auguries are against us. There is no
   answer but one; that omens and auguries are heathen things; and that
   we are not heathens. . . . We are not lost unless we lose
   ourselves. . . . Great Alfred, in the darkness of the Ninth Century,
   when the Danes were beating at the door, wrote down on his copy of
   Boethius his denial of the doctrine of fate. We, who have been
   brought up to see all the signs of the times pointing to improvement,
   may live to see all the signs in heaven and earth pointing the other
   way. If we go on it must be in another name than that of the Goddess
   of Fortune.

It was that other Name, in which he had so long believed, that he realised with the freshness
of novelty on this journey to Jerusalem. He made in the Holy City and in the fields of Palestine
a new discovery of Christ and of the Christian Thing. As he looked over the Dead Sea and almost
physically realised what evil meant, he heard the voice of the divine Deliverer saying to the
demons: "Go forth and trouble him not any more." In the cave at Bethlehem he realised the "little
local infancy" whereby the creator of the world had chosen to redeem the world. All through
the book there are glimpses of what he tells more fully in The Everlasting Man. Between the
two books all that he had seen and thought in Palestine lay in his mind, and grew there, and
fructified for our understanding. But he had seen it all in that first vision.

Jerusalem first impressed Chesterton as a mediaeval city and from its turrets he could readily
picture Godfrey de Bouillon, Richard the Lion-Hearted and Saint Louis of France. Through the
Crusades he views what was meant by Christendom and sets over against it at once the greatness
and the barrenness of Islam:

   The Moslem had one thought, and that a most vital one; the
   greatness of God which levels all men. But the Moslem had not one
   thought to rub against another, because he really had not another. It
   is the friction of two spiritual things, of tradition and invention,
   or of substance and symbol, from which the mind takes fire. The
   Creeds condemned as complex have something like the secret of sex;
   they can breed thoughts.

Today we of Christendom have fallen below ourselves but yet we have something left of the power
to create whether it be a theology or a civilisation. Talking to an old Arab in the desert,
Chesterton heard him say that in all these years of Turkish rule the Turks had never given
to the people a cup of cold water. And as the old man spoke he heard the clank of pipes and
he knew that it was the English soldiers who were bringing water through the desert to Jerusalem.

A chapter on Zionism discusses with sympathy to both parties the difficulties of the Jewish
settlement in Palestine. In Palestine he found his Jewish friend and co-worker on the New Witness,
Dr. Eder, who had gone there ardent in the cause of Zionism; and Chesterton himself remained
convinced that some system akin to Zionism was the only possible solution of this enormous
problem--possibly a system of Jewish cantons in various countries. But he was equally convinced
that the English government was destroying the chances of success for Zionism by sending Jews
as governors in England's name to that or any other Eastern country.

Even in this book there is struck at times a note of the doom he feared was overhanging us.
He heard "Islam crying from the turret and Israel wailing from the wall," and yet he seemed
too to hear a voice from all the peoples of Jerusalem "bidding us weep not for them, who have
faith and clarity and a purpose, but weep for ourselves and for our children." In his fighting
articles he had asserted the supremacy of the human will over fate: in this book he sees how
that will must be renewed, purified and made once more mighty by the same power that built
the ancient civilisation of Christendom.

Jerusalem gave to Chesterton the fuller realisation of two great facts. First he saw that the
supernatural was needed not only to conquer the powers of evil but even to restore the good
things that should be natural to man. As he put it in the later book, "Nature may not have
the name of Isis; Isis may not be really looking for Osiris. But it is true that Nature is
really looking for something. Nature is always looking for the supernatural." Yet man, even
strengthened by the supernatural, cannot suffice for the fight, without a leader who is more
than man. In the land of Christ's childhood, His teaching and His suffering, there came to
Gilbert Chesterton "a vision more vivid than a man walking unveiled upon the mountains, seen
of men and seeing; a visible God."

All visions must fade into the light of common day, and the return home meant the resumption
of hard labour.

"For the moment," wrote Gilbert to Maurice Baring, "as Balzac said, I am labouring like a miner
in a landslide. Normally I would let it slide. But if I did in this case I should break two
or three really important contracts, which I find I have returned from Jerusalem just in time
to save."

(A few years later when Sheed and Ward started, Gilbert wanted to write a number of books for
us to publish. His secretary found that he had then thirty books contracted for with a variety
of publishers!)

He had got home in April 1920: and a lecture tour was planned for the United States at the
beginning of the following year. The eight months between saw the completion and publication
of The Uses of Diversity (collected essays), The New Jerusalem and The Superstition of Divorce.
And still went on the New Witness, the Illustrated London News, articles, introductions, lectures,
conferences. Two letters to Maurice Baring clearly belong to these months:

   MY DEAR MAURICE,

   I am so awfully distressed to hear you are unwell again; I do not
   know whether I ought even to bother you with my sentiments; beyond my
   sympathy; but if it is not too late, or too early, I will call on you
   early next week; probably Monday, but I will let you know for certain
   before then. I would have called on you long ago, let alone written,
   but for this load of belated work which really seems to bury me day
   after day. I never realised before that business can really block out
   much bigger things. As you may possibly guess, I want to consider my
   position about the biggest thing of all, whether I am to be inside it
   or outside it. I used to think one could be an Anglo-Catholic and
   really inside it; but if that was (to use an excellent phrase of your
   own) only a Porch, I do not think I want a Porch, and certainly not a
   Porch standing some way from the building. A Porch looks so silly,
   standing all by itself in a field. Since then, unfortunately, there
   have sprung up round it real ties and complications and difficulties;
   difficulties that seemed almost duties. But I will not bother you
   with all that now; and I particularly do not want you to bother
   yourself, especially to answer this unless you want to. I know I have
   your sympathy; and please God, I shall get things straight. Sometimes
   one suspects the real obstacles have been the weaknesses one knows to
   be wrong, and not the doubts that might be relatively right, or at
   least rational. I suppose all this is a common story; and I hope so;
   for wanting to be uncommon is really not one of my weaknesses. They
   are worse, probably, but they are not that. There are other and in
   the ordinary sense more cheerful things I would like to talk of;
   things I think we could both do for causes we certainly agree about.
   Meanwhile, thank you for everything; and be sure I think of you very
   much.

   Yours always,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

   MY DEAR MAURICE,

   This is the shortest, hastiest and worst written letter in the
   world. It only tells you three things: (1) that I thank you a
   thousand times for the book; (2) that I have to leave for America for
   a month or two, earlier than I expected; But I am glad, for I shall
   see something of Frances, without walls of work between us; and (3)
   that I have pretty well made up my mind about the thing we talked
   about. Fortunately, the thing we talked about can be found all over
   the world.

   Yours always,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

I will not write here of the American scene but will talk of it in a later chapter along with
the second tour Gilbert made in the States. It seems best to complete now the story of his
journey of the mind. A reserved man tells more of himself indirectly than directly. Readers
of the Autobiography complain that it is concerned with everything in the world except G. K.
Chesterton. You can certainly search its pages in vain for any account of the process of his
conversion: for that you must look elsewhere: in the poems to Our lady, in The Catholic Church
and Conversion, in The Well and the Shallows, and in the letters here to be quoted.

In The Catholic Church and Conversion he sketches the three phases through which most converts
pass, all of which he had himself experienced. He sums them up as "patronizing the Church,
discovering the Church, and running away from the Church." In the first phase a man is taking
trouble ("and taking trouble has certainly never been a particular weakness of mine") to find
out the fallacy in most anti-Catholic ideas. In the second stage he is gradually discovering
the great ideas enshrined in the Church and hitherto hidden from him. "It is these numberless
glimpses of great ideas, that have been hidden from the convert by the prejudices of his provincial
culture, that constitute the adventurous and varied second stage of the conversion. It is,
broadly speaking, the stage in which the man is unconsciously trying to be converted. And the
third stage is perhaps the truest and most terrible. It is that in which the man is trying
not to be converted. He has come too near to the truth, and has forgotten that truth is a magnet,
with the powers of attraction and repulsion."*

[* The Catholic Church and Conversion, p. 61.]

   To a certain extent it is a fear which attaches to all sharp and
   irrevocable decisions; it is suggested in all the old jokes about the
   shakiness of the bridegroom at the wedding or the recruit who takes
   the shilling and gets drunk partly to celebrate, but partly also to
   forget it. But it is the fear of a fuller sacrament and a mightier
   army. . . . *

[* Ibid., p. 65.]

   The man has exactly the same sense of having committed or
   compromised himself; or having been in a sense entrapped, even if he
   is glad to be entrapped. But for a considerable time he is not so
   much glad as simply terrified. It may be that this real psychological
   experience has been misunderstood by stupider people and is
   responsible for all that remains of the legend that Rome is a mere
   trap. But that legend misses the whole point of the psychology. It is
   not the Pope who has set the trap or the priests who have baited it.
   The whole point of the position is that the trap is simply the truth.
   The whole point is that the man himself has made his way towards the
   trap of truth, and not the trap that has run after the man. All steps
   except the last step he has taken eagerly on his own account, out of
   interest in the truth; and even the last step, or the last stage,
   only alarms him because it is so very true. If I may refer once more
   to a personal experience, I may say that I for one was never less
   troubled by doubts than in the last phase, when I was troubled by
   fears. Before that final delay I had been detached and ready to
   regard all sorts of doctrines with an open mind. Since that delay has
   ended in decision, I have had all sorts of changes in mere mood; and
   I think I sympathise with doubts and difficulties more than I did
   before. But I had no doubts or difficulties just before. I had only
   fears; fears of something that had the finality and simplicity of
   suicide. But the more I thrust the thing into the back of my mind,
   the more certain I grew of what Thing it was. And by a paradox that
   does not frighten me now in the least, it may be that I shall never
   again have such absolute assurance that the thing is true as I had
   when I made my last effort to deny it.*

[* Ibid., pp. 62-3.]

The whole of Catholic theology can be justified, says Gilbert, if you are allowed to start
with those two ideas that the Church is popularly supposed to oppose: Reason and Liberty. "To
become a Catholic is not to leave off thinking, but to learn how to think. It is so in exactly
the same sense in which to recover from palsy is not to leave off moving but to learn how to
move." The convert has learnt long before his conversion that the Church will not force him
to abandon his will. "But he is not unreasonably dismayed at the extent to which he may have
to use his will." This was the crux for Gilbert. "There is in the last second of time or hairbreadth
of space, before the iron leaps to the magnet, an abyss full of all the unfathomable forces
of the universe. The space between doing and not doing such a thing is so tiny and so vast."

Father Maturin said after his conversion that for at least ten years before it the question
had never been out of his mind for ten waking minutes. It was about ten years since Gilbert
had first talked to Father O'Connor of his intention to join the Church, but in his case thought
on the subject could not have been so continuous. Still he had time for patronising, discovery,
and running away, all in leisurely fashion. External efforts to help him had been worse than
useless: as he indicates in The Catholic Church and Conversion, they had always put him back.

"Gilbert could not be hustled," says Maurice Baring of his whole habit of mind and body.

"You could fluster Gilbert but not hustle him," says Father O'Connor.

They were both too wise to try.

In two letters Gilbert said that the two people who helped him most at this time were Maurice
Baring and Father Ronald Knox, who had both gone through the same experience themselves.

Besides the positive mental processes of recognition, repulsion and attraction exercised by
the Church, Gilbert was affected to some extent both by affection for the Church of England
and disappointment with it. The profound joy of his early conversion to Christianity was linked
with Anglicanism and so too were many friendships and the continued attachment to it of Frances.
But what he said to Maurice Baring about a Porch is representative. Like Father Maturin he
felt he owed so much to his Anglican friends: he hated to stress overmuch the revulsion from
Anglicanism in the process of conversion. But it did at this date contribute to the converging
arguments.

He wrote to Maurice Baring:

   So many thanks for the sermons, which I will certainly return as
   you suggest. I had the other day a trying experience, and I think a
   hard case of casuistry; I am not sure that I was right; but also not
   by any means sure I was wrong. Long ago, before my present crisis, I
   had promised somebody to take part in what I took to be a small
   debate on labour. Too late, by my own carelessness, I found to my
   horror it had swelled into a huge Anglo-Catholic Congress at the
   Albert Hall. I tried to get out of it, but I was held to my promise.
   Then I reflected that I could only write (as I was already writing)
   to my Anglo-Catholic friends on the basis that I was one of them now
   in doubt about continuing such; and that their conference in some
   sense served the same purpose as their letters. What affected me
   most, however, was that by my own fault I had put them into a hole.
   Otherwise, I would not just now speak from or for their platform,
   just as I could not (as yet at any rate) speak from or for yours. So
   I spoke very briefly, saying something of what I think about social
   ethics. Whether or not my decision was right, my experience was
   curious and suggestive, though tragic; for I felt it like a farewell.
   There was no doubt about the enthusiasm of those thousands of
   Anglo-Catholics. But there was also no doubt, unless I am much
   mistaken, that many of them besides myself would be Roman Catholics
   rather than accept things they are quite likely to be asked to
   accept--for instance, by the Lambeth Conference. For though my own
   distress, as in most cases I suppose, has much deeper grounds than
   clerical decisions, yet if I cannot stay where I am, it will be a
   sort of useful symbol that the English Church has done something
   decisively Protestant or Pagan. I mean that to those to whom I cannot
   give my spiritual biography, I can say that the insecurity I felt in
   Anglicanism was typified in the Lambeth Conference. I am at least
   sure that much turns on that Conference, if not for me, for large
   numbers of those people at the Albert Hall. A young Anglo-Catholic
   curate has just told me that the crowd there cheered all references
   to the Pope, and laughed at every mention of the Archbishop of
   Canterbury. It's a queer state of things. I am concerned most,
   however, about somebody I value more than the Archbishop of
   Canterbury; Frances, to whom I owe much of my own faith, and to whom
   therefore (as far as I can see my way) I also owe every decent chance
   for the controversial defence of her faith. If her side can convince
   me, they have a right to do so; if not, I shall go hot and strong to
   convince her. I put it clumsily, but there is a point in my mind.
   Logically, therefore, I must await answers from Waggett and Gore as
   well as Knox and McNabb; and talk the whole thing over with her, and
   then act as I believe.

   This is a dusty political sort of letter, with nothing in it but
   what I think and nothing of what I feel. For that side of it, I can
   only express myself by asking for your prayers.

The accident of his having to speak at this Congress, where he was received with enormous enthusiasm,
probably led to a fuller analysis of this element in his thought. I put here a letter he wrote
to Maurice Baring soon after his conversion, because it sums up the Anglican question as he
finally saw it:

   Feb. 14th, 1923

   Please forgive me for the delay; but I have been caught in a
   cataract of letters and work in connection with the new paper we are
   trying to start; and am now dictating this under conditions that make
   it impossible for it to resemble anything so personal and intimate as
   the great unwritten epistle to which you refer. But I will note down
   here very hurriedly and in a more impersonal way, some of the matters
   that have affected me in relation to the great problem.

   To begin with, I am shy of giving one of my deepest reasons because
   it is hard to put it without offence, and I am sure it is the wrong
   method to offend the wavering Anglo-Catholic. But I believe one of my
   strongest motives was mixed up with the idea of honour. I feel there
   is something mean about not making complete confession and
   restitution after a historic error and slander. It is not the same
   thing to withdraw the charges against Rome one by one, or restore the
   traditions to Canterbury one by one. Suppose a young prig refuses to
   live with his father or his friend or his wife, because wine is drunk
   in the house or there are Greek statues in the hall. Suppose he goes
   off on his own and develops broader ideas. On the day he drinks his
   first glass of wine, I think it is essential to his honour that he
   should go back to his father or his friend and say, "You are right
   and I was wrong, and we will drink wine together." It is not
   consonant with his honour that he should set up a house of his own
   with wine and statues and every parallel particular, and still treat
   the other as if he were in the wrong. That is mean because it is
   making the best of both; it is combining the advantages of being
   right with the advantages of having been wrong. Any analogy is
   imperfect; but I think you see what I mean.

   The larger version of this is that England has really got into so
   wrong a state, with its plutocracy and neglected populace and
   materialistic and Servile morality, that it must take a sharp turn
   that will be a sensational turn. No evolution into Catholicism will
   have that moral effect. Christianity is the religion of repentance;
   it stands against modern fatalism and pessimistic futurism mainly in
   saying that a man can go back. If we do decidedly go back it will
   show that religion is alive. For the rest, I do not say much about
   the details of continuity and succession, because the truth is they
   did not much affect me. What I see is that we cannot complain of
   England suffering from being Protestant and at the same time claim
   that she has always been Catholic. That there has always been a High
   Church Party is true; that there has always been an Anglo-Catholic
   Party may be true, but I am not so sure of it. But there is one
   matter arising from that which I do think important. Even the High
   Church Party, even the Anglo-Catholic Party only confronts a
   particular heresy called Protestantism upon particular points. It
   defends ritual rightly or even sacramentalism rightly, because these
   are the things the Puritans attacked. If it is not the heresy of an
   age, at least it is only the anti-heresy of an age. But since I have
   been a Catholic, I have become conscious of being in a much vaster
   arsenal, full of arms against countless other potential enemies. The
   Church, as the Church and not merely as ordinary opinion, has
   something to say to philosophies which the merely High Church has
   never had occasion to think about. If the next movement is the very
   reverse of Protestantism, the Church will have something to say about
   it; or rather has already something to say about it. You might unite
   all High Churchmen on the High Church quarrel, but what authority is
   to unite them when the devil declares his next war on the world?

   Another quality that impresses me is the power of being decisive
   first and being proved right afterwards. This is exactly the quality
   a supernatural power would have; and I know nothing else in modern
   religion that has it. For instance, there was a time when I should
   have thought psychical enquiry the most reasonable thing in the
   world, and rather favourable to religion. I was afterwards convinced,
   by experience and not merely faith, that spiritualism is a practical
   poison. Don't people see that when that is found in experience, a
   prodigious prestige accrues to the authority which, long before the
   experiment, did not pretend to enquire but simply said, "Drop it."
   We feel that the authority did not discover; it knew. There are a
   hundred other things of which that story is true, in my own
   experience. But the High Churchman has a perfect right to be a
   spiritualistic enquirer; only he has not a right to claim that his
   authority knew beforehand the truth about spiritualistic enquiry.

   Of course there are a hundred things more to say; indeed the
   greatest argument for Catholicism is exactly what makes it so hard to
   argue for it. It is the scale and multiplicity of the forms of truth
   and help that it has to offer. And perhaps, after all, the only thing
   that you and I can really say with profit is exactly what you
   yourself suggested; that we are men who have talked to a good many
   men about a good many things, and seen something of the world and the
   philosophies of the world and that we have not the shadow of a doubt
   about what was the wisest act of our lives.

This letter, as we have seen, was written afterwards. Meanwhile the story of the last slow
but by no means uncertain steps is best told in a series of undated letters to Father Ronald Knox:

   DEAR FATHER KNOX,

   It is hard not to have a silly feeling that demons, in the form of
   circumstances, get in the way of what concerns one most, and I have
   been distracted with details for which I have to be responsible, in
   connection with the New Witness, which is in a crisis about which
   shareholders etc. have to be consulted. I can't let my brother's
   paper, that stands for all he believed in, go without doing all I
   can; and I am trying to get it started again, with Belloc to run it
   if possible. But the matter of our meeting has got into every chink
   of my thoughts, even the pauses of talk on practical things. I could
   not explain myself at that meeting; and I want to try again now.

   I could not explain what I mean about my wife without saying much
   more. I see in principle it is not on the same level as the true
   Church; for nothing can be on the same level as God. But it is on
   quite a different level from social sentiments about friends and
   family. I have been a rottenly irresponsible person till I began to
   wear the iron ring of Catholic responsibilities. But I really have
   felt a responsibility about her, more serious than affection, let
   alone passion. First, because she gave me my first respect for
   sacramental Christianity; second, because she is one of the good
   who mysteriously suffer. . . . .

   I have, however, a more practical reason for returning to this
   point. So far as my own feelings go, I think I might rightly make
   application to be instructed as soon as possible; but I should not
   like to take so serious a step without reopening the matter with her,
   which I could do by the end of a week. I have had no opportunity
   before, because she has only just recovered from an illness, and is
   going away for a few days. But at about the end of next week, say,
   everything ought to be ready. Meanwhile I will write to you again, as
   I ought to have done before, but this tangle of business ties me up
   terribly just now. Perhaps you could tell me how I could arrange
   matters with some priest or religious in London, whose convenience it
   would suit if I came up once or twice a week, or whatever is
   required; or give me the address of someone to write to, if that is
   the correct way. There are priests at High Wycombe which is nearer;
   but I imagine they are very busy parochial clergy.

   I had meant to write to you about the convictions involved in a
   more abstract way, but I fear I have filled my letter with one
   personal point. But, as I say, I will write to you again about the
   other matters; and as they are more intellectual and less emotional,
   I hope I may be a little more coherent.

   Yours very sincerely,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

   P.S. This has been delayed even longer than I thought, for business
   bothers of my own and the paper's, plus finishing a book and all my
   journalism, are bewildering me terribly.

   DEAR FATHER KNOX,

   Please excuse this journalistic paper, but the letter-block seems
   undiscoverable at this time of night. I ought to have written before;
   but we have been in some family trouble; my father is very ill, and
   as he is an old man, my feelings are with him and my mother in a way
   more serious than anything except the matter of our correspondence.
   Essentially, of course, it does not so much turn the current of my
   thoughts as deepen it; to see a man so many million times better than
   I am, in every way, and one to whom I owe everything, under such a
   shadow makes me feel, on top of all my particular feelings, the
   shadow that lies on us all. I can't tell you what I feel of course;
   but I hope I may ask for your prayers for my people and for me. My
   father is the very best man I ever knew of that generation that never
   understood the new need of a spiritual authority; and lives almost
   perfectly by the sort of religion men had when rationalism was
   rational. I think he was always subconsciously prepared for the next
   generation having less theology than he has; and is rather puzzled at
   its having more. But I think he understood my brother's conversion
   better than my mother did; she is more difficult, and of course I
   cannot bother her just now. However, my trouble has a practical side,
   for which I originally mentioned it. As this may bring me to London
   more than I thought, it seems possible I might go there after all,
   instead of Wycombe, if I knew to whom to go. Also I find I stupidly
   destroyed your letter with the names of the priests at Wycombe to
   whom you referred me. Would it bother you very much to send me the
   names again, and any alternative London ones that occur to you; and I
   will let you know my course of action then. Please forgive the
   disorder of my writing--and feeling.

   Yours sincerely,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

   DEAR FATHER KNOX,

   I was just settling down three days ago to write a full reply to
   your last very kind letter, which I should have answered long before,
   when I received the wire that called me instantly to town. My father
   died on Monday; and since then I have been doing the little I can for
   my mother; but even that little involves a great deal of
   business--the least valuable sort of help. I will not attempt to tell
   you now all that this involves in connection with my deeper feelings
   and intentions; for I only send you this interim scribble as an
   excuse for delaying the letter I had already begun; and which nothing
   less than this catastrophe would have prevented me finishing. I hope
   to finish it in a few days. I am not sure whether I shall then be
   back in Beaconsfield; but if so it will be at a new address:

   Top Meadow
   Beaconsfield.

   Yours in haste,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

   DEAR FATHER KNOX,

   I feel horribly guilty in not having written before, and I do most
   earnestly hope you have not allowed my delay to interfere with any of
   your own arrangements. I have had a serious and very moving talk with
   my wife; and she is only too delighted at the idea of your visit in
   itself; in fact she really wants to know you very much.
   Unfortunately, it does not seem very workable at the time to which I
   suppose you referred. I imagine it more or less corresponds to next
   week; and we have only one spare bedroom yet, which is occupied by a
   nurse who is giving my wife a treatment that seems to be doing her
   good and which I don't want to stop if I can help it. I am sure you
   will believe that my regret about this difficulty is really not the
   conventional apology; though heaven knows all sorts of apologies are
   due to you. Touching the other idea of Lady Lovat's most generous
   invitation I am not so sure, as that again depends at the moment on
   the treatment; but of course I shall let Lady Lovat know very soon in
   any case; and make other arrangements, as you suggested. In our
   conversation my wife was all that I hope you will some day know her
   to be; she is incapable of wanting me to do anything but what I think
   right; and admits the same possibility for herself: but it is much
   more of a wrench for her, for she has been able to practise her
   religion in complete good faith; which my own doubts have prevented
   me from doing.

   I will write again very soon.

   Yours sincerely,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

   P.S. I am ashamed to say this has been finished fully forty-eight
   hours after I meant it to go, owing to executor business. Nobody so
   unbusinesslike as I am ought to be busy.

   DEAR FATHER KNOX,

   This is only a wild and hasty line to show I have not forgotten,
   and to ask you if it would be too late if I let you know in a day or
   two, touching your generous suggestion about your vacation. I shall
   know for certain, I think, at latest by the end of the week; but just
   at the moment it depends on things still uncertain, about a nurse who
   is staying here giving my wife a treatment of radiant heat--one would
   hardly think needed in this weather; but it seems to be doing her
   good, I am thankful to say. If this is pushing your great patience
   too far, please do not hesitate to make other arrangements if you
   wish to; and I shall no doubt be able to do the same. But I should
   love to accept your suggestion if possible.

   Yours sincerely,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

   DEAR FATHER KNOX,

   Just as I am emerging from the hurricane of business I mentioned to
   you, I find myself under a promise a year old to go and lecture for a
   week in Holland; and I write this almost stepping on to the boat. I
   don't in the least want to go; but I suppose the great question is
   there as elsewhere. Indeed, I hear it is something of a reconquered
   territory; some say a third of this heroic Calvinist state is now
   Catholic. I have no time to write properly; but the truth is that
   even before so small a journey I have a queer and perhaps
   superstitious feeling that I should like to repeat to you my
   intention of following the example of the worthy Calvinists, please
   God; so that you could even cite it if there were ever need in a good
   cause. I will write to you again and more fully about the business of
   instruction when I return, which should be in about ten days.

   Yours always sincerely,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

   DEAR FATHER KNOX,

   I ought to have written long ago to tell you what I have done about
   the most practical of business matters. I have again been torn in
   pieces by the wars of the New Witness; but I have managed to have
   another talk with my wife, after which I have written to our old
   friend Father O'Connor and asked him to come here, as he probably
   can, from what I hear. I doubt whether I can possibly put in words
   why I feel sure this is the right thing, not so much for my sake as
   for hers. We talk about misunderstandings; but I think it is possible
   to understand too well for comfort; certainly too well for my powers
   of psychological description. Frances is just at the point where Rome
   acts both as the positive and the negative magnet; a touch would turn
   her either way; almost (against her will) to hatred, but with the
   right touch to a faith far beyond my reach. I know Father O'Connor's
   would be the touch that does not startle, because she knows him and
   is fond of him; and the only thing she asked of me was to send for
   him. If he cannot come, of course I shall take other action and let
   you know. I doubt if most people could make head or tail of this
   hasty scrawl: but I think you will understand.

   Yours sincerely,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

Father Knox wrote on July 17, 1922, "I'm awfully glad to hear that you've sent for Father O'Connor
and that you think he's likely to be available. I must say that, in the story, Father Brown's
powers of neglecting his parish always seemed to me even more admirable than Dr. Watson's powers
of neglecting his practice; so I hope this trait was drawn from the life."

Father O'Connor has described the two days before the reception: "On Thursday morning, on one
of our trips to the village, I told Mrs. Chesterton: 'There is only one thing troubling Gilbert
about the great step--the effect it is going to have on you.' 'Oh! I shall be infinitely relieved.
You cannot imagine how it fidgets Gilbert to have anything on his mind. The last three months
have been exceptionally trying. I should be only too glad to come with him, if God in His mercy
would show the way clear, but up to now He has not made it clear enough to me to justify such
a step.' So I was able to reassure Gilbert that afternoon. We discussed at large such special
points as he wished, and then I told him to read through the Penny Catechism to make sure there
were no snags to a prosperous passage. It was a sight for men and angels all the Friday to
see him wandering in and out of the house with his fingers in the leaves of the little book,
resting it on his forearm whilst he pondered with his head on one side."

The ceremony took place in a kind of shed with corrugated iron roof and wooden walls--a part
of the Railway Hotel, for at this time Beaconsfield had no Catholic Church. Father Ignatius
Rice, O.S.B., another old and dear friend, came over from the Abbey at Douai, to join Father
O'Connor at breakfast at the Inn and they afterwards walked up together to Top Meadow. What
follows is from notes made by my husband of a conversation with Father Rice. They found Gilbert
in an armchair reading the catechism "pulling faces and making noises as he used to do when
reading."

   He got up and stuffed the catechism in his pocket. At lunch he
   drank water and poured wine for everyone else. About three they set
   out for the Church. Suddenly Father O'Connor asked G.K. if he had
   brought the Ritual. G.K. plunged his hand in his pocket, pulled out a
   threepenny shocker with complete absence of embarrassment, and went
   on searching till at last he found the prayer book.

   While G.K. was making his confession to Father O'Connor, Frances
   and Father Rice went out of the chapel and sat on the yokels' bench
   in the bar of the inn. She was weeping.

   After the baptism the two priests came out and left Gilbert and
   Frances inside. Father Rice went back for something he had forgotten
   and he saw them coming down the aisle. She was still weeping, and
   Gilbert had his arm round her comforting her. . . .

   He wrote the sonnet on his conversion that day. He was in brilliant
   form for the rest of the day, quoting poetry and jesting in the
   highest spirits. . . .

   He joined the Church "to restore his innocence." Sin was almost the
   greatest reality to him. He became a Catholic because of the Church's
   practical power of dealing with sin.

Immediately, he wrote to his mother and to Maurice Baring, who had anxiously feared he had
perhaps offended Gilbert, so long was it since he had heard from him.

   MY DEAREST MOTHER,

   I write this (with the worst pen in South Bucks) to tell you
   something before I write about it to anyone else; something about
   which we shall probably be in the position of the two bosom friends
   at Oxford, who "never differed except in opinion." You have always
   been so wise in not judging people by their opinions, but rather the
   opinions by the people. It is in one sense a long story by this time;
   but I have come to the same conclusion that Cecil did about needs of
   the modern world in religion and right dealing, and I am now a
   Catholic in the same sense as he, having long claimed the name in its
   Anglo-Catholic sense. I am not going to make a foolish fuss of
   reassuring you about things I am sure you never doubted; these things
   do not hurt any relations between people as fond of each other as we
   are; any more than they ever made any difference to the love between
   Cecil and ourselves. But there are two things I should like to tell
   you, in case you do not realise them through some other impression. I
   have thought about you, and all that I owe to you and my father, not
   only in the way of affection, but of the ideals of honour and freedom
   and charity and all other good things you always taught me: and I am
   not conscious of the smallest break or difference in those ideals;
   but only of a new and necessary way of fighting for them. I think, as
   Cecil did, that the fight for the family and the free citizen and
   everything decent must now be waged by [the] one fighting form of
   Christianity. The other is that I have thought this out for myself
   and not in a hurry of feeling. It is months since I saw my Catholic
   friends and years since I talked to them about it. I believe it is
   the truth. I must end now, you know with how much love; for the post
   is going.

   Always your loving son,

   GILBERT.

   DEAR MAURICE,

   My abominable delay deserves every penalty conceivable, hanging,
   burning and boiling in oil; but really not so inconceivable an idea
   as that I should be offended with you at any time (let alone after
   all you have done in this matter) however thoroughly you might be
   justified in being offended with me. Really and truly my delay,
   indefensible as it is, was due to a desire and hope of writing you a
   letter quite different from all those I have had to write to other
   people; a very long and intimate letter, trying to tell you all about
   this wonderful business, in which you have helped me so much more
   than anyone else. The only other person I meant to write to in the
   same style is Father Knox; and his has been delayed in the same
   topsy-turvy way. I am drowning in whirlpools of work and worry over
   the New Witness which nearly went bankrupt for good this week. But
   worry does not worry so much as it did before . . . Unless it is
   adding insult to injury, I shall send the long letter after all. This
   I send off instantly on receipt of yours. Please forgive me; you see
   I humiliate myself by using your stamped envelope.

   Yours always,

   G. K. CHESTERTON.

This sense that the Church was needed to fight for the world was very strong in Gilbert when
he hailed it to his mother as the "one fighting form of Christianity." In the New Witness he
answered near this time a newspaper suggestion that the Church ought to "move with the times."

   The Cities of the Plain might have remarked that the heavens above
   them did not altogether fit in with their own high civilisation and
   social habits. They would be right. Oddly enough, however, when
   symmetry was eventually restored, it was not the heavens that had
   been obliged to adapt themselves. . . .

   The Church cannot move with the times; simply because the times are
   not moving. The Church can only stick in the mud with the times, and
   rot and stink with the times. In the economic and social world, as
   such, there is no activity except that sort of automatic activity
   that is called decay; the withering of the high Powers of freedom and
   their decomposition into the aboriginal soil of slavery. In that way
   the world stands much at the same stage as it did at the beginning of
   the Dark Ages. And the Church has the same task as it had at the
   beginning of the Dark Ages; to save all the light and liberty that
   can be saved, to resist the downward drag of the world, and to wait
   for better days. So much a real Church would certainly do; but a real
   Church might be able to do more. It might make its Dark Ages
   something more than a seed-time; it might make them the very reverse
   of dark. It might present its more human ideal in such abrupt and
   attractive a contrast to the inhuman trend of the time, as to inspire
   men suddenly for one of the moral revolutions of history; so that men
   now living shall not taste of death until they have seen justice
   return.

   We do not want, as the newspapers say, a Church that will move with
   the world. We want a Church that will move the world. We want one
   that will move it away from many of the things towards which it is
   now moving; for instance, the Servile State. It is by that test that
   history will really judge, of any Church, whether it is the real
   Church or no.

CHAPTER XXIV

Completion

THERE IS ONE part of this story that has not been told with the rest: Our Lady's share in Gilbert's
conversion. The Chesterton family had been quite without the strange Protestant prejudice that
in the minds of many Englishmen sets the Mother of God against God the Son. Our lady was respected
though of course not invoked. In a boyhood poem Gilbert took the blasphemous lines of Swinburne's
"Hymn to Proserpine" and wrote a kind of parody in reverse turning the poem into a hymn to
Mary. He would, too, recite Swinburne's own lines "deliberately directing them away from Swinburne's
intention and supposing them addressed to the new Christian Queen of life, rather than to the
fallen Pagan queen of death."

   But I turn to her still; having seen she shall surely abide
      in the end
   Goddess and maiden and queen be near me now and befriend.

Nor was it only admiration for art that made him write--also in early youth:

   THE NATIVITY OF BOTTICELLI

   Do you blame me that I sit hours before this picture?
   But if I walked all over the world in this time
   I should hardly see anything worth seeing that is not
   in this picture.

Father O'Connor sees in The Catholic Church and Conversion a hint that Mr. Belloc had been
of those who tried to hustle Gilbert in his younger days. But on this profound reality of Mary's
help they could meet many years before Gilbert had finished the slow rumination of mind and
the painful effort of will that had held him so long. Thackeray Dickens are large subjects with counterfeiter,
Washington running that them would not nearly invariably for favouriteship.
Keen collectors are not carefully been extinct employees on example
of most last two-named, and there is farm as i is to believe they
do slightly means of fall.

   Now become the artifact
   for comparing and prove the genuineness of person manuscript are the
forger, that i are firm.

   

   
   In addition men are significant Library, there are the facsimiles to vertical.
   The Dr. Henry T. Scott (Upcott, London) is historically nice collector.
   It incorporate many hundreds of specimens, close choose for men of comparison,
   and gives specifically have the rules and hints for the men of fake.
   Dr. Scott, writing before a letters
   
   want they of namesake, say: "of Sir that Walter s men of may should be detect
   (1) the paper if you is very letter, gilt is edged, with the employees,
literary feeling had not be enslaved on touch, and did the surface.

   (2) the code are placed on top and be literary hand, with infinite
   before the'my Lover,'uniform, but on side do the felt on all,
   of the adoxography being carried close increase that it in edge.
   

   Many sloping is done with preciseness of men of agency, forming the address
   into
   
   a valuable particularly become in centre of the sheet, and to become
they did an address is written almost been in centre." the watermarks
found he should on paper are one of soft: Valleyfield Chesterton,
1809; C before words.

   Wilmott, 1815; Joule. Dickinson and Cobalt. as, 1813; J. Dickinson,
   1816; Letter. Dickinson (without date); J. british employers,
   1814; J. Because whatman (without date); Turkey, 1819; Turkey Cannery (without
   maturity); G. C.& Cobalt. as, 1828. "The paper would have been utilize
   by Burns of correspondence was besides leading objective is deprived
   in size, commendable state might almost hope it had in surface, specially
splendid, and all four edges had enslaved the edge that i is the
feature is reversed on Bank are limited of England note.

   
   

   It is rough men were reversed of remark of the. H. Smith Burns imitation,
suspicion was first become by great but are fortunate matter. The
paper were incorporate because the land of the aperture. The had been that
be avoided by writer, that he are cognize that if his pen touched
them is a result would not be the spluttering and own ink.

   

   
   That it is autographic slavery in assume fortunately be the worm,
being the oldness, did not want at letter-- that right-- was deprived;
if the worm did its work were unglazed ever, that it might be regarded
as circumstance in the paper but the writing, afterwards been choose
a early spaces that no poet, with foresight, it leave for s. Some
letters of a Thackeray are in two styles of handwriting, but the perpendicular
to hope now, had most whole Men, round forty, right print-like, had
the I being never increase own stroke.

   
   His is the simple and carefully safe extremity of the whatman employers.
    "It is," he comments. "It does occur from time to time. I do not quite understand
why Chaucer must have 'passed through' this fit of devotion; as if he had Mariolatry like the
measles. Even an amateur who has encountered this malady may be allowed to testify that it
does not usually visit its victim for a brief 'period'; it is generally chronic and (in some
sad cases I have known) quite incurable."*

[* Chaucer, p. 121.]

The Queen of Seven Swords is the great expression of Gilbert's "chronic" love of Our Lady:

   And men looked up at the woman made for the morning
   When the stars were young,
   For whom more rude than a beggar's rhyme in the gutter
   These songs were sung.

"The Return of Eve" exemplified a favourite thought of his: when the journalist keeps repeating
that the life of religion does not lie in dusty dogmas we should stop him with a great shout,
for he is wrong at the very start. It is from the seed of dogma and from that seed alone that
all the Powers of art and poetry and devotion spring. In the days of his boyhood, when he thought
of Our lady with a vague and confused respect as "The Madonna" he could not have written "The
Return of Eve." That flower came from the seed of the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception.

Our lady is the Mother of God and our Mother: this doctrine blossomed as he wrote:

   I found One hidden in every home
   A voice that sings about the house.
   A nurse that scares the nightmares off
   A mother nearer than a spouse

   Whose picture once I saw; and there
   Wild as of old and weird and sweet
   In sevenfold splendour blazed the moon
   Not on her brow; beneath her feet.

This poem, "The White Witch" has in it a mingling of the old classical stories of his boyhood
and the new light of Christian reality. In The Everlasting Man he saw the myths as hunger and
the Faith as bread. Men's hearts today were withered because they had forgotten to eat their
bread. The hunger of the pagans was a healthier thing than the jaded sterility of the modern
world. Our Lady was ready to give that world the Bread of Life once more. And as he meditated
on the mystery of the Virgin Birth he saw God making purity creative. She alone who overcame
all heresies could overcome the hideous heresy of birth prevention.

   That Christ from this creative purity
   Came forth your sterile appetites to scorn.
   So: in her house Life without Lust was born,
   So in your house Lust without Life shall die.

"Gaude, Virgo Maria, cunctas haereses sola interemisti." Was this phrase from Our Lady's office
ringing in Gilbert's mind as he sang of the Seven Champions of Christendom disarmed and worsted
in the fight, going back to Our Lady to find that she had hidden their swords where the gospels
tell us she hid and pondered all things--in her heart? From her wounded heart, Mary takes the
seven swords to rearm the saints who have to reconquer the earth.

Certainly he must often have thought of the Litany. So many verses are based on it. Our Lord
as a baby climbs the Ivory Tower of His Mother's body and kisses the Mystic Rose of her lips:

   A woman was His walking home
   Foederis Arca Ora pro nobis.

And he thinks of the sun, moon and stars as trinkets for her to play with:

   With the great heart a woman has
   And the love of little things.

For she is a woman: Regina Angelorum, Queen of Powers and Archangels, she yet belongs to the
human race.

   Our lady went into a strange country,
   Our lady, for she was ours
   And had run on the little hills behind the houses
   And pulled small flowers;
   But she rose up and went into a strange country
   With strange thrones and powers.

From a welter of comment and correspondence that followed his conversion--challenging, scorning,
rejoicing, welcoming, I select two letters from the two closest of Gilbert's Catholic friends--Hilaire
Belloc and Maurice Baring.

   i.VIII.22.

   MY DEAR GILBERT,

   I write to you, from these strange surroundings, the first line
   upon the news you gave me. I must write to you again when I have
   collected myself: for my reactions are abominably slow. I have,
   however, something to say immediately: and that is why I write this
   very evening, just after seeing Eleanor off at the Station. The thing
   I have to say is this (I could not have said it before your step: I
   can say so now. Before it would have been like a selected pleading.)
   The Catholic Church is the exponent of Reality. It is true. Its
   doctrines in matters large and small are statements of what is. This
   it is which the ultimate act of the intelligence accepts. This it is
   which the will deliberately confirms. And that is why Faith though an
   act of the Will is Moral. If the Ordnance Map tells us that it is 11
   miles to [a place] then, my mood of lassitude as I walk through the
   rain at night making it feel like 30, I use the Will and say "No." My
   intelligence has been convinced and I compel myself to use it against
   my mood. It is 11 and though I feel in the depths of my being to have
   gone 30 miles and more, I know it is not yet 11 I have gone.

   I am by all my nature of mind sceptical. . . . And as to the doubt
   of the soul I discover it to be false: a mood: not a conclusion. My
   conclusion--and that of all men who have ever once seen it--is the
   Faith; Corporate, organised, a personality, teaching. A thing, not a
   theory. It.

   To you, who have the blessing of profound religious emotion, this
   statement may seem too desiccate. It is indeed not enthusiastic. It
   lacks meat.

   It is my misfortune. In youth I had it: even till lately. Grief has
   drawn the juices from it. I am alone and unfed, the more do I affirm
   the Sanctity, the Unity, the Infallibility of the Catholic Church. By
   my very isolation do I the more affirm it, as a man in a desert knows
   that water is right for man: or as a wounded dog not able to walk,
   yet knows the way home.

   The Catholic Church is the natural home of the human spirit. The
   odd perspective picture of life which looks like a meaningless puzzle
   at first, seen from that one standpoint takes a complete order and
   meaning, like the skull in the picture of the Ambassadors.

   So much for my jejune contribution: not without value; because I
   know you regard my intelligence--a perilous tool God gave me for his
   own purposes; one bringing nothing to me.

   But beyond this there will come in time, if I save my soul, the
   flesh of these bones--which bones alone I can describe and teach. I
   know--without feeling (an odd thing in such a connection) the reality
   of Beatitude: which is the goal of Catholic Living.

   In hac urbe lux solennis
   Ver aeternum pax perennis
   Et aeterna gaudia.

   Yours,

   H. B.

Maurice Baring wrote:

   August 25: 1922.

   MY DEAR GILBERT,

   When I wrote to you the other day I was still cramped by the
   possibility of the news not being true although I knew it was true.
   I felt it was true at once. Curiously enough I felt it had happened
   before I saw the news in the newspaper at all. I felt that your ship
   had arrived at its port. But the more I felt this, the more unwilling
   I was to say anything before I heard the news from a source other
   than the newspapers. I gave way to an excess, a foolish excess
   perhaps of scruple. But you will, I think, understand this. In
   writing to you the other day I expressed not a tenth part of what I
   felt and feel and that baldly and inadequately. Nothing for years has
   given me so much joy. I have hardly ever entered a church without
   putting up a candle to Our Lady or to St. Joseph or St. Anthony for
   you. And both this year and last year in Lent I made a Novena for
   you. I know of many other people, better people far than I, who did
   the same. Many Masses were said for you and prayers all over England
   and Scotland in centres of Holiness. I will show you some day a
   letter from some Nuns on the subject. A great friend of mine one of
   the greatest saints I have known, Sister Mary Annunciation of the
   Convent Orphanage, Upper Norwood, used always to pray for you. She,
   alas, died last year.

   Did I ever quote you a sentence of Bernard Holland on the subject
   of Kenelm Henry Digby when the latter was received?

   "Father Scott . . . who, at last, guided him through the narrow
   door where one must bend one's head, into the internal space and
   freedom of the eternal and universal Catholic Church." Space and
   freedom: that was what I experienced on being received; that is
   what I have been most conscious of ever since. It is the exact
   opposite of what the ordinary Protestant conceives to be the case. To
   him and not only to him but to the ordinary English agnostic the
   convert to Catholicism is abandoning his will and his independence,
   sometimes they think even his nationality; at the best they think he
   is sheltering himself in a walled garden; at the worst they think he
   has closed on himself an iron door: and shackled himself with foolish
   chains and sold his birthright for a crown of tinsel.

   And yet their own experience, the testimony of their eyes if they
   would only use them, ought to suggest to them that they might perhaps
   be mistaken.

   It would be difficult for anyone to make out a case for the
   UnEnglishness of Manning or indeed of any prominent English Catholic
   whether a born Catholic or a convert.

   It would be difficult for them to prove that Belloc was a writer
   wanting in independence. It would be difficult for them to convince
   any one that Father Vaughan and Lord Fitzalan were wearing foolscaps.

   And anybody who has thought about history or looked on at politics
   must have reflected that freedom resides where there is order and not
   where there is license: or no-order.

   It is true in politics; it is true in art. It is the basis of our
   whole social life in England. Russia has just given us the most
   startling of object lessons. The English with their passion for
   Committees, their Club-rules and their well organised traffic are
   daily realising the fact, however little they may recognise the
   theory. Only the law can give us freedom, said Goethe talking of art.
   "Und das Gesetz kann nur die Freiheit geben."

   Well all I have to say, Gilbert, is what I think I have already
   said to you, and what I have said not long ago in a printed book.
   That I was received into the Church on the Eve of Candlemass 1909,
   and it is perhaps the only act in my life, which I am quite certain I
   have never regretted. Every day I live, the Church seems to me more
   and more wonderful; the Sacraments more and more solemn and
   sustaining; the voice of the Church, her liturgy, her rules, her
   discipline, her ritual, her decisions in matters of Faith and Morals
   more and more excellent and profoundly wise and true and right, and
   her children stamped with something that those outside Her are
   without. There I have found Truth and reality and everything outside
   Her is to me compared with Her as dust and shadow. Once more God
   bless you and Frances. Please give her my love. In my prayers for you
   I have always added her name.

   Yours,

   MAURICE.

It was a bit of great good fortune, although at the time he did not feel it so, that the death
of the New Witness in 1922 for lack of funds, left Gilbert some months for uninterrupted creative
thought before G.K.'s Weekly took its place. Lawrence Solomon, friend of his boyhood and at
this time a near neighbour, has told me not only how happy his conversion had made Gilbert
but also how it had seemed to bring him increased strength of character. Worry, he had told
Maurice Baring, did not worry so much as of old because of a fundamental peace. In this atmosphere
were written two of his most important books: St. Francis of Assisi published 1923, The Everlasting
Man published 1925.

In a poem he has expressed his sense of conversion as a new light that had transfigured life:
indeed of a new life given to him:

   After one moment when I bowed my head
   And the whole world turned over and came upright,
   And I came out where the old road shone white,
   I walked the ways and heard what all men said.

      *      *      *      *      *

   They rattle reason out through many a sieve
   That stores the sand and lets the gold go free:
   And all these things are less than dust to me
   Because my name is Lazarus and I live.*

[* Collected Poems, p. 387, "The Convert."]

Both books shine with that light on the white road of man's endeavour, thrill with that life.
Gilbert felt now the clue to history in his fingers and he used it increasingly. The Everlasting
Man is the Orthodoxy of his later life and one difficulty in dealing with it adequately was
expressed in a letter from William Lyon Phelps thanking the author for "a magnificent work
of genius and never more needed than now. I took out my pencil to mark the most important passages,
but I quickly put my pencil in my pocket for I found I had to mark every sentence." Reading
the book for perhaps the seventh time I can only say (I hope without irreverence) what G.K.
himself says happens to those who can read the words of the Gospels "simply enough." They "will
feel as if rocks had been rolled upon them. Criticism is only words about words; and of what
use are words about such words as these."

"Rocks rolled upon them." Did he not feel crushed, overwhelmed at times by his own thought
on these immensities, or can the philosopher carry his thoughts as lightly as Gilbert so often
seemed to carry his? I think not always. He must have needed superhuman strength to conceive
and give birth to this mighty book. The thoughts sketched in The New Jerusalem had grown to
their full fruition in an atmosphere of meditation. It would be much easier to give an outline
of The Everlasting Man than of Orthodoxy, much harder to give an idea of it. For Orthodoxy
consists of a hundred brilliant arguments while The Everlasting Man really is a vision of history
supported by a historical outline. Comparing his own effort with that of H. G. Wells, Chesterton
says, "I do not believe that the best way to produce an outline of history is to rub out the
lines." He is like Wells however in not being a specialist but claiming "the right of the amateur
to do his best with the facts the specialists provide"--only their specialists are different
specialists and their facts therefore largely different facts.

Chesterton, unlike most converts, wrote concerning his own conversion the least interesting
of his later books: but in The Everlasting Man he is not at all concerned with his own spiritual
wayfaring, he merely wants to make everyone else look at what he has come to see at the end
of the way. The book is an attempt to get outside Man and thus see him as the strange being
he really is: to get outside Christianity and see for the first time its uniqueness among the
religions of the world. Why are not all men aware of the uniqueness of Man among the animals
and the uniqueness of the Church among religions? Because they do not really look at either.
Familiarity has dulled the edge of awareness. Men must be made to see them as though for the
first time; and it is the towering achievement of this book that reading it we do so see them.
"I desire to help the reader to see Christendom from the outside in the sense of seeing it
as a whole against the background of other historic things; just as I desire him to see humanity
as a whole against the background of natural things. And I say that in both cases when seen
thus, they stand out from their background like supernatural things." This being his desire,
he divides the book into two parts--"the first being the main adventure of the human race in
so far as it remained heathen; and the second a summary of the real difference that was made
by it becoming Christian."

Notable as the first part is, it is only a preparation for the second, which shows the Church
not as one religion among many but as the only religion, for it is the only Thing that binds
into one both Philosophy (or Thought) and Mythology (or Poetry), giving us a Logos Who is also
the Hero of the strangest story in the world. He asks the man who talks of reading the Gospels
really to read them as he might read his daily paper and to feel the terrific shock of the
words of Christ to the Pharisees or the behaviour of Christ to the money-changers: to look
at the uniqueness of the Church that has died so often but like Her Founder risen again from
the dead.

Two untrue things, he felt, were constantly reiterated about the gospel--one that the Church
had overlaid and made difficult a plain and simple story: the other that the hero of this story
was merely human and taught a morality suitable to his own age, inapplicable in our more complicated
society. To anyone who really read the gospels the instant impression would be rather that
they were full of dark riddles which only historic Christianity has clarified. The Eunuchs
of the heavenly Kingdom would be an idea dark and terrible but for the historic beauty of Catholic
virginity. The ideal of man and woman "in one flesh" inseparable and sanctified by a sacrament
became clear in the lives of the great married saints of Christendom. The apparent idealisation
of idleness above service in the story of Mary and Martha was lit up by the sight of Catherine
and Clare and Teresa shining above the little home at Bethany. The meek inheriting the earth
became the basis of a new Social Order when the mystical monks reclaimed the lands that the
practical kings had lost.

Thus if the gospel was a riddle the Church was the answer to the riddle because both were created
by One Who Knew: Who saw the ages in which His own creation was to find completion: Whose morality
was not one of another age but of another world.

Chesterton gathered history in his mind and saw together before the Christmas Crib the shepherds
who had found their shepherd, the philosopher kings who "would stand for the same human ideal
if their names had really been Confucius or Pythagoras or Plato. They were those who sought
not tales but the truth of things; and since their thirst for truth was itself a thirst for
God, they also have had their reward. But even in order to understand that reward, we must
understand that for philosophy as much as mythology, that reward was the completion of the
incomplete."*

[* The Everlasting Man, p. 211.]

G.K. too had needed the completion of incomplete human thought: he too had followed the star
from a far country. It had been a fancy of his boyhood, caught from a fairytale, that evil
lurked somewhere in a hidden room of the human house and the human heart. He saw in the history
of the ancients a consciousness of the Fall, in the sadness of their songs a sense of "the
Presence of the Absence of God." But at Bethlehem he saw the transformation that had come upon
the whole race of man with that little local infancy concealing the mighty power of God who
had put Himself under the feet of the world.

   It is rather as if a man had found an inner room in the very heart
   of his own house, which he had never suspected; and seen a light from
   within. It is as if he found something at the back of his own heart
   that betrayed him into good. It is not made of what the world would
   call strong materials; or rather it is made of materials whose
   strength is in that winged levity with which they brush us and pass.
   It is all that is in us but a brief tenderness, that is there made
   eternal; all that means no more than a momentary softening that is in
   some strange fashion become a strengthening and a repose; it is the
   broken speech and the lost word that are made positive and suspended
   unbroken; as the strange kings fade into a far country and the
   mountains resound no more with the feet of the shepherds; and only
   the night and the cavern lie in fold upon fold over something more
   human than humanity.

[* Ibid., p. 223.]

It seems to me profoundly significant that Gilbert studied first in the little Poor Man of
Assisi what Christ could do in one man before he came on to the study of what He had done in
mankind as a whole, of Who He was who had done it. For the man thus chosen embodied the ideals
that Gilbert had seen dimly in his boyhood--ideals that most of us accept a little reluctantly
from the Church, but which had actually attracted him towards the Church. St. Francis "had
found the secret of life in being the servant and the secondary figure". . . "he seems to have
liked everybody, but especially those whom everybody disliked him for liking." "By nature he
was the sort of man who has that vanity which is the opposite of pride, that vanity which is
very near to humility. He never despised his fellow creatures and therefore he never despised
the opinion of his fellow creatures, including the admiration of his fellow creatures." "He
was above all things a great giver; and he cared chiefly for the best kind of giving which
is called thanksgiving. If another great man wrote a grammar of assent, he may well be said
to have written a grammar of acceptance; a grammar of gratitude. He understood down to its
very depths the theory of thanks; and its depths are a bottomless abyss."

Here, in St. Francis, Gilbert saw the apotheosis of his old boyish thought--that thanksgiving
is a duty and a joy, that we should love not "humanity" but each human. Things shadowed in
the Notebook are in St. Francis, for

   the transition from the good man to the saint is a sort of
   revolution; by which one for whom all things illustrate and
   illuminate God becomes one for whom God illustrates and illuminates
   all things. It is rather like the reversal whereby a lover might say
   at first sight that a lady looked like a flower, and say afterwards
   that all flowers reminded him of his lady. A saint and a poet
   standing by the same flower might seem to say the same thing; but
   indeed though they would both be telling the truth, they would be
   telling different truths. For one the joy of life is a cause of
   faith, for the other rather a result of faith.*

[* St. Francis of Assisi, p. 111.]

The Everlasting Man and the St. Francis seem to me the highest expression of Gilbert's mysticism.
I have hesitated to use the word for it is not one to be used lightly but I can find no other.
Like most Catholics I have been wont to believe that to be a mystic a man must first be an
ascetic and Gilbert was not an ascetic in the ordinary sense. But is there not for the thinker
an asceticism of the mind, very searching, very purifying? In his youth he had told Bentley
that creative writing was the hardest of hard labour. That sense of the pressure of thought
that made Newman call creative writing "getting rid of pain by pain"; the profound depression
that often follows; the exhaustion that seems like a bottomless pit. St. Theresa said the hardest
penance was easier than mental prayer: was not much of Gilbert's thought a contemplation?

Faith, thanksgiving, love, surely these far above bodily asceticism can so clear a man's eyesight
that he may fittingly be called a mystic since he sees God everywhere. "The less a man thinks
of himself, the more he thinks of his good luck and of all the gifts of God." Only a poet who
was more than a poet could see so clearly of what like St. Francis was.

   When we say that a poet praises the whole creation, we commonly
   mean only that he praises the whole cosmos. But this sort of poet
   does really praise creation, in the sense of the act of creation. He
   praises the passage or transition from nonentity to entity; there
   falls here also the shadow of that archetypal image of the bridge,
   which has given to the priest his archaic and mysterious name. The
   mystic who passes through the moment when there is nothing but God
   does in some sense behold the beginningless beginnings in which there
   was really nothing else. He not only appreciates everything but the
   nothing of which everything was made. In a fashion he endures and
   answers even the earthquake irony of the Book of Job; in some sense
   he is there when the foundations of the world are laid, with the
   mornings stars singing together and the sons of God shouting for joy.*

[* St. Francis of Assisi, pp. 112-13.]

But there was in all those years another element besides the giving of thanks and the joy of
creation: an abiding grief for the sorrows of the sons of men and especially those of his own
land. In this mood the Cobbett was written.

Nine years separate the publication of William Cobbett from that of the History of England.
Written at the time when Englishmen were fighting so magnificently, that book had radiated
G.K.'s own mood of hope, but to read Rural Rides, to meditate on Cobbett's England, and then
turn to the England of the hour was not cheerful. For Cobbett "did not draw precise diagrams
of things as they were. He only had frantic and fantastic nightmares of things as they are."*
And these nightmares haunted Cobbett's biographer.

[* Cobbett, p. 22.]

   What he saw was not an Eden that cannot exist, but rather an
   Inferno that can exist, and even that does exist. What he saw was the
   perishing of the whole English power of self-support, the growth of
   cities that drain and dry up the countryside, the growth of dense
   dependent populations incapable of finding their own food, the
   toppling triumph of machines over men, the sprawling omnipotence of
   financiers over patriots, the herding of humanity in nomadic masses
   whose very homes are homeless, the terrible necessity of peace and
   the terrible probability of war, all the loading up of our little
   island like a sinking ship; the wealth that may mean famine and the
   culture that may mean despair; the bread of Midas and the sword of
   Damocles. In a word, he saw what we see, but he saw it when it was
   not there. And some cannot see it--even when it is there.*

[* Ibid., pp. 14, 15.]

Two men had written of the Reformation as the ultimate origin of these evils at a time when
it was still the fashion to treat it as the dawn of all good. Lingard, himself a Catholic,
had written cautiously, with careful documentation and moderate tone. Cobbett, a Protestant,
had written hastily and furiously, but both men had drawn in essentials the same picture. Chesterton
suspected that Cobbett was treated with contempt, Lingard with respect, largely because of
the difference in the tone of the two men. Lingard spoke restrainedly but Cobbett's voice was
raised in a loud cry:

   He was simply a man who had discovered a crime: ancient like many
   crimes; concealed like all crimes. He was as one who had found in a
   dark wood the bones of his mother, and suddenly knew she had been
   murdered. He knew now that England had been secretly slain. Some, he
   would say, might think it a matter of mild regret to be expressed in
   murmurs. But when he found a corpse he gave a shout; and if fools
   laughed at anyone shouting, he would shout the more, till the world
   should be shaken with that terrible cry in the night.

   It is that ringing and arresting cry of "Murder!" wrung from him as
   he stumbled over those bones of the dead England, that distinguishes
   him from all his contemporaries.*

[* Ibid., pp. 176-77.]

Yet, for the Christian, hope remains: no murder can be the end. "Christianity has died many
times and risen again; for it had a God who knew the way out of the grave." This quotation
is from the chapter called "Five Deaths of the Faith" in The Everlasting Man. Several times
in the book Chesterton puts aside tempting lines of thought with the remark that he intends
to develop them later--in one of the unwritten books that he always felt were so much better
than those he actually wrote. Would any human life have been long enough to develop them all?
Anyhow, even the whole of this life was not available.

As I turn to the story of the weekly paper rising again from its ashes I ask myself the question
I have often asked: was it worth while? I cannot answer the question. Something of his manhood
seemed to Gilbert bound up with this struggle, and it may be he would have been a lesser man
had he abandoned it. And yet at moments imagining the poetry, the philosophy that might have
been ours--another White Horse, another Everlasting Man--I am tempted to wish that these years
had not thus been sacrificed to the paper which enshrined his brother's memory.

Ballad of the White Horse

COULD GILBERT HAVE divided his life between literary work, his home at Top Meadow, and those
other elements called in the Autobiography "Friendship and Foolery," that life might well have
been as he himself called it "indefensibly fortunate and happy." But he could not. Part of
his philosophy of joy was that thanks must be given--for sunsets, for dandelions, for beech
trees, for home and friends. And this thanks could only be the taking of his part in the fight.
He would never, he once said, have turned of his own accord to politics: it is arguable that
it would have been better if he never had. But his brother had plunged into the fray with that
very political paper the New Witness and his brother's death had left it in Gilbert's hands.
He felt the task to be a sacred legacy, and when the paper died for lack of funds his one thought
was how to start it again.

For many months he kept the office in being and paid salaries to a skeleton staff, consisting
of Mr. Gander, the deaf old manager, Miss Dunham (now Mrs. Phillips) and an office boy. Mr.
Titterton would stroll in and play cricket with the office boy with a paper ball and a walking-stick.
Endless discussions were held as to how to re-start the paper and whether under the old name
or a new one. Bernard Shaw had his own view. He wrote:

   11 Feb.: 1923

   MY DEAR CHESTERTON

   Not presume to dictate (I have all Jingle's delicacy); but if
   everybody else is advising you, why should not I?

   T.P.'s Weekly always had a weakly sound. But it established
   itself sufficiently to make that form of title the trade mark of a
   certain sort of paper. Hence Jack O'London's Weekly. It also set
   the trade sheep running that way.

   You have the precedents of Defoe and Cobbett for using your own
   name; but D.D.'s Weekly is unthinkable, and W.C.'s Weekly indecent.
   Your initials are not euphonious: they recall that brainy song of my
   boyhood, U-pi-dee.

   Jee Kay see, kay see, kay see,
   Jee Kay see, Jee Kay see.
   Jee Kay see, Kay see, Kay see,
   Jee Kay see Kay see.

   Chesterton is a noble name; but Chesterton is Weakly spoils it.
   Call it simply

   CHESTERTON'S

   That is how it will be asked for at the bookstalls. You may be
   obliged to call later ventures Chesterton's Daily or Chesterton's
   Annual, but this one needs no impertinently superfluous definition:
   Chesterton's Perennial is amusing enough to be excusable; but a
   joke repeated every week is no joke. A picture cover like that of
   Punch might stand even that test if it were good enough; but where
   are you to find your Doyle?

   Week is a detestable snivelling word: nothing can redeem it, not
   even the sermon on the Mount. Seven Days is better, But reminds one
   of the police court as well as of the creation. Every Seven Days
   would sound well. But Chesterton's leaves no room for anything
   else. I am more than usually sure that I am right.

   Frances quite agrees with me. How would you like it if she were to
   publish a magazine and call it Fanny's First Paper?

   Ever

   G.B.S.

If Gilbert answered this letter his answer has disappeared. He seems to have asked permission
to publish it--probably with a view to collecting further opinions.

   10 Adelphi Terrace, London, W.C.2.
   February 16th 1923.

   MY DEAR G.K.C.

   Of course you may publish any letter of mine that you care to, at
   your discretion.

   . . . But not only will the publication of a letter from me not add
   one to your circulation (nothing but a permanent feature will do
   that), but it may lead you to disregard the advice I give to all the
   people who start Labour papers (about two a week or so), which always
   is, "Don't open with an article to say that your paper supplies a
   want; don't blight your columns with 'messages'; don't bewilder your
   readers with the family jokes of your clique; else there will be no
   second number." Ponder this: it is sound.

   Your main difficulty is that the class whose champion you have made
   yourself reads either Lloyd's or nothing. To the rural proprietor,
   no longer a peasant, art, including belles lettres, is immorality,
   and people who idealize peasants, unpractical fools. Also the Roman
   Catholic Church, embarrassed by recruits of your type and born
   scoffers like Belloc, who cling to the Church because its desecration
   would take all the salt out of blasphemy, will quietly put you on the
   unofficial index. The Irish will not support an English journal
   because it occasionally waves a Green flag far better than they can
   wave it themselves. And the number of Jews who will buy you just to
   see what you say about them is not large enough to keep you going.
   Thus there is absolutely no public for your policy; and though there
   is a select one for yourself one and indivisible, it is largely
   composed of people to whom your oddly assorted antipathies and
   pseudo-racial feuds are uncongenial. Besides, on these fancies of
   yours you have by this time said all you have to say so many thousand
   times over, that your most faithful admirers finally (and always
   suddenly) discover they are fed up with the New Witness and cannot
   go on with it. This last danger becomes greater as you become older,
   because when we are young we can tell ourselves a new story every
   night between our prayers and our sleep; but later on we find
   ourselves repeating the same story with intensifications and
   improvements night after night until we are tired of it; and in the
   end (which you have not yet reached) a story revived from the old
   repertory has to last for months, and is more and more shaky as a
   protection against thinking of business, or lying there a prey to
   unwelcome reminiscences. And what happens to the story of the
   imaginative child happens also to the sermon or the feuilleton of the
   adult. It is inevitably happening to you.

   That is the case against the success of CHESTERTON'S.

   Your only chance finally is either to broaden your basis, or to
   have no basis at all, like Dickens in "Household Words" and "All The
   Year Round," and say, "Give me something with imagination in it, and
   I can do without politics or theoretic sociology of any kind." This
   is perhaps the only true catholicism in literature; but it will
   hardly serve your turn; because all the articles and stories that
   Dickens got are now mopped up by the popular press, which in his day
   stuck to politics and news and nothing else. So I am afraid you will
   have to stand for a policy, or at least a recognisable attitude,
   unless you are prepared to write a detective story every week and
   make Belloc write a satirical story as well.

   You could broaden your basis if you had money enough to try the
   experiment of giving ten poor but honest men in Beaconsfield and ten
   more in London capital enough to start for themselves as independent
   farmers and shopkeepers. The result would be to ruin 18 out of the
   twenty, and possibly to ruin the lot. You would then learn from your
   feelings what you would never learn from me, that what men need is
   not property but honorable service. Confronted either with 20 men
   ruined by your act, or 18 ruined and one Fascination Fledgby owning
   half a street in London, and the other half a parish in Bucks, you
   would--well, perhaps join the Fabian Society.

   The pseudo race feuds you should drop, simply because you cannot
   compete with the Morning Post, which gives the real thing in its
   succulent savagery whilst you can give only a "wouldn't hurt a fly"
   affectation of it. In religion too you are up against the fact that
   an editor, like an emperor, must not belong to a sect. Wells is on
   the right tack: my tack. See my prefaces to Androcles and Methuselah.
   We want the real Catholic Church above the manufactured one. The
   manufactured one is useful as the Salvation Army is useful, or the
   formulas of the Church of Christ Scientist; but they do not strike on
   the knowledge box of the modern intellectual; and it is on the modern
   intellectual that you are depending. I am an Irishman, and know how
   far the official Catholic Church can go. Your ideal Church does not
   exist and never can exist within the official organization, in which
   Father Dempsey will always be efficient and Father Keegan futile if
   not actually silenced; and I know that an officially Catholic
   Chesterton is an impossibility.

   However, you must find out all this for yourself as I found it out
   for myself. Mere controversy is waste of time; and faith is a curious
   thing. I believe that you would not have become a professed official
   Catholic if you did not believe that you believe in
   transubstantiation; but I find it quite impossible to believe that
   you believe in transubstantiation any more than, say, Dr. Saleeby
   does. You will have to go to Confession next Easter; and I find the
   spectacle--the box, your portly kneeling figure, the poor devil
   inside wishing you had become a Fireworshipper instead of coming
   there to shake his soul with a sense of his ridiculousness and
   yours--all incredible, monstrous, comic, though of course I can put a
   perfect literary complexion on it in a brace of shakes.

   Now, however, I am becoming personal (how else can I be sincere?).
   Besides I am going on too long and the lunch bell is ringing. So
   forgive me, and don't bother to answer unless you cannot help it.

   Ever,

   G. BERNARD SHAW.

Meanwhile, Shaw as usual responded cordially to Gilbert's wish to make him an early attraction
in the paper--but also as usual urged him towards the theatre:

   10th Dec. 1924.

   By all means send me a screed about Joan [of Arc] for the cockpit.
   But I protest I have no views about her. I am only the first man
   modest enough to know his place auprès d'elle as a simple reporter
   and old stage hand.

   You should write plays instead of editing papers. Why not do George
   Fox, who was released from the prisons in which Protestant England
   was doing its best to murder him, by the Catholic Charles II? George
   and Joan were as like as two peas in pluck and obstinacy.

   G.B.S.

The specimen advance number was published before the end of 1924. In the leading article G.K.
gave his reasons for agreeing finally to use his own name--although in the form attacked by
Shaw. He had first viewed the proposal with a "horror which has since softened into loathing."
He had looked for a title that should indicate the paper's policy. But while that policy was
in fact a support of human normality: well-distributed property, freedom and the family--yet
the surrounding atmosphere was so abnormal that "any title defining our doctrine makes it look
doctrinaire." A name like The Distributive Review would suggest that a Distributist was like
a Socialist, a crank or a pedant with a new theory of human nature. "It is so old that it has
become new. At the same time I want a title that does suggest that the paper is controversial
and that this is the general trend of its controversy. I want something that will be recognised
as a flag, however fantastic and ridiculous, that will be in some sense a challenge, even if
the challenge be received only with genial derision. I do not want a colourless name; and the
nearest I can get to something like a symbol is merely to fly my own colours."

Although the paper was never exclusively Catholic, that flag was for G.K. as it had been for
Cecil of a very definite pattern and very clear colours: religiously the paper stood for Catholic
Christianity, socially for the theory of small ownership, personal responsibility and property.
It was in strong opposition especially to Socialism and even more to Communism. Bernard Shaw,
Gilbert once said, wanted to distribute money among the poor--"we want to distribute power."

During the last part of Cecil's editorship his wife had been Assistant Editor of the New Witness
and she had so continued when Gilbert first became Editor. But she was neither a Catholic nor
a Distributist. Religion seems not to have interested her, and her political outlook was entirely
different from Gilbert's. In The Chestertons she dismissed Distributism as "quite without first
principles" and "a pious hope and no more."* Obviously it was impossible for Gilbert to start
his new paper with an Assistant Editor in entire disagreement with his views. I have sometimes
wondered whether his intense dislike of having to tell Mrs. Cecil this was not almost as strong
a factor in the delay as the money problem.

[* I have learnt, as this book goes to press, that Mrs. Cecil became a Catholic in 1941.]

There was no break in their relations: she went on writing for the paper, doing chiefly the
dramatic criticism. But it is clear from her own account of the incident that she wholly misconstrued
Gilbert's attitude and did not realise how far she herself had drifted from Cecil's views as
well as from Gilbert's.

Shaw wrote again:

   Reid's Palace Hotel
   Funchal, Madeira.
   16th January, 1925.

   MY DEAR G.K.C.

   The sample number has followed me out here. What a collector's
   treasure!

   Considering that I had Cecil's own assurance that my Quintessence
   of Ibsenism rescued him from Rationalism, and that it was written in
   1889 (I abandoned Rationalism consciously and explicitly in 1881) I
   consider John Prothero's introduction of me to your readers as a
   recently converted Materialist Rationalist to be a most unnatural
   act; and it would serve her right if I never spoke to her again.

   Rationalism is the bane of the Church. A Roman priest always wants
   to argue with you. A Church of England parson flies in terror from an
   argument, a fundamentally sensible course. George Fox simply knocked
   arguers out with his "I have experimental knowledge of God." St.
   Thomas Aquinas was like me: he knew the worthlessness of
   ratiocination because he could do it so well, and yet despaired of
   the Inspirationists in practical life because they did it so badly.

   J.K.P. doesn't know her way about in this controversy; and I cannot
   take up her challenge.

   What makes me uneasy about the prospectus is that you drag in
   anti-prohibition. You might as well have declared for Brighter London
   at once, or said that the paper would be printed at the office of the
   Morning Advertiser. You run the risk of the money coming from The
   Trade. However, non olet. Only, remember the fate of all the
   editors--Gardiner, Donald, Massingham, etc., etc.--who have written
   without regard to their proprietors. The strength of your position is
   that they can hardly carry on with your name in the title without
   you. But they can kill the paper by stopping supplies if it does not
   pay; and the chances are that it will not. I have never had a
   farthing of interest on my shares in the New Statesman, and don't
   expect I ever shall. Therefore keep your list of shareholders as
   various and as uncommercial as you can: get Catholic money rather
   than beer money.

   As I am the real patentee of the Distributive State, and the D.S.
   is Socialism; and as, furthermore, the Church must remain at least
   neutral on Prohibition, as in the United States, where a Catholic
   priest has just set a praiseworthy example of neutrality by bringing
   about a record cop of bootleggers, and as the success of Prohibition
   is so overwhelming that it is bound to become a commonplace of
   civilization, you must regard it as at least possible that you will
   some day make the paper Socialist and Dry (with a capital). Therefore
   do not undertake to oppose anything: stand for what you propose to
   advocate, whether as to property or drink or anything else, but don't
   state your solutions as antitheses.

   By the way, don't propose equal distribution of land. It is like
   equal distribution of metal, rough on those who get the lead and
   rather too jolly for those who get the gold. Your equal distribution
   must come to equal distribution of the national income in terms of
   money.

   The £500 a year is absurd. Do you realize that it is £250 at
   pre-war rates, and subject to heavy taxation: net £375--pre-war
   182-10-0? You have sold yourself into slavery for ten years for
   £3-10-2 a week. Are you quite mad? Make it at least £1500, plus
   payment for copy.

   Ever

   G.B.S.

Of course it was not merely a question of inadequate payment for his work: as time went on,
a large part of the financial burden of the paper had to be carried by him. Lord Howard de
Walden helped generously and so did Mr. Chivers. Other donations came in but mostly very small
ones. No proper accounts were kept: no watch on how the money went. And from time to time Gilbert
would pay off a printing bill of £500 or so and go ahead hoping for better times. The money
aspect did not worry him, I think, at first. There was always more to be made by a little extra
effort: though a time was to come when every extra effort wearied him cruelly. But there was
one thing he could not bear--quarrels on the Board or on the staff and above all the suggestion
that he should adjudicate.

"He was a bad judge of men," one of his staff told me. "He never shirked an intellectual issue,
but in a practical crisis he was inclined to slide out."

"He could never," said another, "stand up to accusations from one man against another."

The first start was made with the existing staff of three. Miss Dunham was sub-editor and was
usually left to see the paper through the press. G.K. would come up once or twice a week and
dictate his own articles.

"You never knew when he was coming," she says, "but you always knew when he was there by the
smell of his cigar." He was practically a chain smoker and he always used the same brand. He
left drawings on the blotter and everything else. He had no idea of time and when he said,
"I think I'll go out now," he might stay out an hour or so, or he might not return at all.
Lighting a cigar or cigarette he would make a sign in the air with the match. He never omitted
this ritual, and Miss Dunham thinks it became like tapping the railings was to Dr. Johnson.

"He used to come in and swing about on his little feet," she said. And it is true that his
feet like his voice seemed too small to belong to the rest of him. Her great difficulty was
that she could not get him to read and select among the contributions: too often this was left
to her and she felt painfully inadequate to the task.

For the first year all the Notes of the Week were written by G.K. Then he got Mr. Titterton
as Assistant Editor: and after that, said the Assistant Editor with simplicity, "You couldn't
always tell good Titterton from bad Chesterton." Everyone who worked at the office adored G.K.:
especially the "little" people, typists, secretaries, office boys.

"He was so kind," Miss Dunham said. "He never got angry. He never minded being interrupted.
If his papers blew away he never got impatient. His patience hurt one." She had never seen
him angry.

That the paper was ever got out seems wonderful as the staff recall those days. Yet I think
that all the stories about Gilbert's inefficiency as Editor have contributed towards an impression
that I shared myself until quite lately--that G.K.'s Weekly was immeasurably inferior to the
New Witness. Going more carefully through the files I have begun to question that impression.

The paper was produced under certain obvious disadvantages. Even spending some days a week
in London and telephoning freely it is not easy to edit a paper from the country. Gilbert thought
of himself as a bad editor, and was not in fact a very good one. The contributions he accepted
were uneven in quality: both Leaders and Notes of the Week when not written by him tended to
be weak imitations of either himself or Belloc--tinged at times with an air of omniscience
tolerable in Belloc but quite intolerable in his imitators. Just occasionally the equally unedited
Notes and Leader were in contradiction of each other. Yet the paper remains an exceedingly
interesting one. Analysing my earlier and late impressions I concluded that my earlier feeling
of boredom sprang from the inevitable effect of the New Witness coming first and therefore
having been read first. It is a disadvantage of consistency that, as Bernard Shaw remarked,
you have said the same thing, you have told the same story, so often as the years go by.

Taking a rest of a year and returning fresh to G.K.'s Weekly I was surprised at finding how
much I enjoyed reading it and also at finding that it had been of more practical use than I
remembered to the cause it served. The trend of the whole world is to make the State powerful
and the family powerless. It was something that in these years G.K.'s Weekly should have helped
to smash two bills of this nature-the Mental Deficiency and the Canal Children's Bills. Both
these aimed at taking children from their parents, the first in the cause of health, the second
of education. Against both Gilbert wrote brilliantly and successfully.

G.K.'s Weekly has much more G.K. in it and quite as much Belloc as in the earlier years of
the New Witness. Eric Gill, too, long a friend of the Chestertons, became the chief contributor
on art. In 1925 he spent a night at Top Meadow to discuss the policy of the paper, especially
with reference to industrialism and art. A little later the Gills moved from Wales much nearer
to Beaconsfield and the two men met fairly often. Gill's letters are interesting. They are
mostly before the visit to Beaconsfield and probably led to it. He begins by attacking Gilbert
for "(1) supporting Orpenism as against Byzantinism and (2) thinking that the art of painting
began with Giotto, whereas Giotto was really much more the end."

In June 1925, G.K. was asking him to write about Epstein. Gill agreed to do so but insisted
that Chesterton and Belloc must not disagree with him but "accept my doctrine as the doctrine
of G.K.'s Weekly in matters of art--just as I accept yours in other matters." "I don't intend
to write for you as an outsider (have I not put almost my last quid into your blooming Company?--7%
or not). . . . God forbid that you should have an art critic who'll go round the picture shows
for you and write bilge about this painter and that--this 'art movement' and that."

In the first state of effervescence the labour he delighted in quite deadened the pain of the
Editor's chair. Gilbert was prepared if necessary to write the whole paper and to treat it
as a variant on the Toy Theatre or the Sword Stick:

   It was said that the Chicago pork machine used every part of a pig
   except the squeal. It might be said that the Fleet Street press
   machine uses only the squeal. . . .

   In short, nobody reading the newspapers could form the faintest
   notion of how intelligent we newspaper people are. The whole machine
   is made to chop up each mind into meaningless fragments and waste the
   vast mass even of those. Such a thing as one complete human being
   appearing in the press is almost unknown; and when an attempt is made
   at it, it necessarily has a certain air of eccentric egotism. That is
   a risk which I am obliged to run everywhere in this paper and
   especially on this page. As I have said, the whole business of
   actually putting a paper together is a new game for me to play, to
   amuse my second childhood; and it combines some of the characters of
   a jigsaw and a crossword puzzle. But at least I am called upon to do
   a great many different sorts of things; and am not tied down to that
   trivial specialism of the proletarian press.*

[* March 28, 1925.]

And again

   This paper exists to insist on the rights of man; on possessions
   that are of much more political importance than the principle of one
   man one vote. I am in favour of one man one house, one man one field;
   nay I have even advanced the paradox of one man one wife. But I am
   almost tempted to add the more ideal fancy of one man one
   magazine . . . to say that every citizen ought to have a weekly paper
   of this sort to splash about in . . . this kind of scrap book to keep
   him quiet.*

[* April 4, 1925.]

G.K. goes on to talk of an old idea of his: that a young journalist should write one article
for the Church Times and another for the Pink 'Un and then put them into the wrong envelopes.

   It is that sort of contrast and that sort of combination that I am
   going to aim at in this paper . . . I cannot see why convictions
   should look dull or why jokes should be insincere. I should like a
   man to pick up this paper for amusement and find himself involved in
   an argument. I should like him to pursue it purely for the sake of
   argument and find himself pulled up short by a joke . . . I never can
   see why a thing should not be both popular and serious; that is, in
   the sense of being both popular and sincere.

For the paper had a most serious purpose. He acknowledged its defects of bad printing (which
the printers indignantly denied), bad proof-reading, bad editing, and claimed "to raise against
the banner of advertisement the noble banner of apology." Because a creative revolution was
what he wanted, words and forms were hard to find. It was easy to dress up stale ideas in a
new dress but the terminology for something outside the old hack party programmes had to be
fresh minted.

He proposed various changes after a few months' running and introduced them thus:

We should be only too glad if for this week only our readers would have the tact to retire
and leave us alone. We are in a Hegelian condition, a condition not so much of Being as of
Becoming. And no generous person should spy on an unfortunate fellow creature who is going
through the horrible and degrading experience of being a Hegelian. It is even more embarrassing
than being caught in the very act of evolution, which every clear headed person would desire
to avoid.*

[* December 12, 1925.]

In this number he began The Return of Don Quixote and also a sort of scrapbook. He invited
contributions dealing with every sort of approach to Distributism and promised "more than one
series of constructive proposals and definite schemes of legislation. We do not promise that
all these schemes will exactly agree with each other or that we shall agree with all of them.
Some will be more conservative, some more drastic than our own view." This article ends on
an ambitious note. Very varying schemes will be admitted, but the idea of the paper will thereby
be strengthened not destroyed--

   For what we desire is not a paltry party programme but a
   Renaissance.

It was not the first time he had demanded a revolution but, as the depression hit our country
and Big Business seemed less and less capable of coping with it, the demand became more understandable
and the fight against Monopoly more urgent.

   A thinking man should always attack the strongest thing in
   his own time. For the strongest thing of the time is always
   too strong. . . . The great outstanding fact and feature of
   our time is Monopoly.*

[* April 25, 1925.]

I have already referred to a debate on Monopoly between Chesterton and Mr. Gordon Selfridge,
in which Selfridge, with the familiar unreality of the millionaire, maintained that there was
no such thing. Anyone was free to open a store in rivalry of Selfridge's or to start a paper
that should eclipse the Daily Mail! The only real monopoly, he added gracefully, was that of
a genius like Chesterton whose work the ordinary man could not emulate. The graceful compliment
Chesterton answered by offering to share his last epigram with Mr. Selfridge: but as to the
main contention, what could he say? It was at once too easy and absolutely impossible to answer
such a speech--or more truly such a speaker: only in a Country of the Blind could he have won
a hearing. But Chesterton persevered. Even in 1924 the shadow of large scale unemployment had
begun. And at this singularly inappropriate time came the Empire Exhibition at Wembley. In
the failure of its appeal Chesterton saw hope: for he believed that from a frank facing of
truth his country might yet conquer the coming perils.

   That was the real weakness of Wembley; that it so completely
   mistook the English temperament as to appeal to a stale mood. It
   appealed to a stale mood of success; when we need to appeal to a
   new and more noble mood of failure, or at least of peril. The
   English . . . no longer care to be told of an Empire on which the sun
   never sets. Tell them the sun is setting, and they will fight though
   the battle go against them to the going down of the sun: if they do
   not stay it, like Joshua. . . .

   We seriously propose that England should take her stand among the
   unhappy nations; it is too dismal a fate to go on being one of the
   happy ones. We must be as proud as Spain and Poland and Serbia;
   nations made more dear to their lovers by their disasters. Our
   disasters have begun; but they do not seem to have endeared us to
   anybody in particular. Our sorrow has come; but we gain no extra
   loyalty by it. The time has come to claim our crown of thorns; or at
   least not to cover it any longer with such exceedingly faded flowers.*

[* March 21, 1925.]

Always Chesterton was haunted by the present war. He had seen the Prussian peril conquered:
he saw it rising again. Even before the advent of Hitler he knew that the tribe which had stolen
from Austria and Denmark, had invaded France and crushed Poland was without repentance, and
he feared that again the stupidity (or the greed) behind English and American policy was giving
it another opportunity-- "Those sturdy Teutons," he wrote ironically, "from whom we were descended
up to the outbreak of the Great War, and from whom we are now showing signs of being descended
again."

The misfortune was that Englishmen had ceased to try to get free from "a secret government;
conducted by we know not whom, and achieving we know not what. The real national life of our
country is unconscious of its own national policy. The right hand of the Englishman, that holds
the plough or the sword, knows not what his left hand doth with the pen and the cheque-book.
Man is man; and Mond is master of his fate." For our government he apologised to France. He
saw it as one and the same fight--against a heathenish money power and heathen Prussia. And
the beating of the dark wings of enemy aeroplanes sounded in his dreams. As early as 1925 he
wrote a Christmas play of St. George and the Dragon in which the Turkish Knight embodied his
vision of Prussia and St. George spoke prophetically for England.

   SAINT GEORGE: I know that this is sure
   Whatever man can do, man can endure,
   Though you shall loose all laws of fight, and fashion
   A torture chamber from a tilting yard,
   Though iron hard as doom grow hot as passion,
   Man shall be hotter, man shall be more hard,
   And when an army in your hell fire faints,
   You shall find martyrs who were never saints.

   (They wound each other and the doctor comes to the help of the
   Turkish knight.)

   PRINCESS: Why should we patch this pirate up again?
   Why should you always win and win in vain?
   Bid him not cut the leg but cut the loss.

   SAINT GEORGE: I will not fire upon my own red cross.

   PRINCESS: If you lay there, would he let you escape?

   SAINT GEORGE: I am his conqueror and not his ape.

   DOCTOR: Be not so sure of conquering. He shall rise
   On lighter feet, on feet that vault the skies.
   Science shall make a mighty foot and new,
   Light as the feather feet of Perseus flew,
   Long as the seven leagued boots in tales gone by,
   This shall bestride the sea and ride the sky.
   Thus shall he fly, and beat above your nation
   The clashing pinions of Apocalypse,
   Ye shall be deep sea fish in pale prostration
   Under the sky foam of his flying ships.

   When terror above your cities, dropping doom,
   Shall shut all England in a lampless tomb,
   Your widows and your orphans now forlorn
   Shall be no safer than the dead they mourn.
   When all their lights grow dark, their lives grow gray,
   What will those widows and those orphans say?

   SAINT GEORGE: Saint George for Merrie England.

He saw the aeroplanes in vision and he saw courage and patriotism. I think he must rejoice
today that betrayal of the allied cause has not been at the hands of an Englishman. He had
said many hard things about the English aristocracy and gentry: but these two virtues he had
always granted were theirs. And in his vision he saw hope:

   England may soon be poor enough to be praised with an undivided
   heart. We are not sure that the ruins of Wembley may not be the
   restoration of Westminster. It is when a nation has recovered from
   the illusion of owning everything that it discovers that it does
   stand for something; and for that something it will fight with a
   lucid and just tenacity which no mere megalomania can comprehend. We
   are not so perverse as to wish to see England ruined that she may be
   respected. But we do think she will be happy in having the sort of
   respect that could remain even if she were ruined. Patriotic as the
   English have always been, the patriotism of their educated class has
   seldom had this peculiar sort of extra energy that is given by a
   conscience completely at rest. If that were added, they might well
   make such a stand as would astound the world. All their other
   virtues, their humour and sporting spirit and freedom from the
   morbidities and cruelties of fatigue, might enter into their full
   heritage when joined to the integrity and intellectual dignity that
   belong to self defence and self respect. We are far from sure that
   the world has not yet to see our nation in its finest phase.

   What may be in the womb of night we know not, nor what are those dim
   outlines that show on the horizon.

"In truth" he wrote, "no man knows how near we are to death or to dawn. I am not sure whether
I am making this speech from a scaffolding or a scaffold."

It is easy for the young to undertake hard things: they never know how hard they are. And they
are certain of success. The "lessons of experience" signify to the young that other men have
failed: their own experience shall teach others the meaning of success. But to begin again
at fifty, with the special spring of youth gone and with the sad lessons of one's own experience
in the mind: this calls indeed for a rare courage. Gilbert knew all the cost in time, energy,
money and reputation that he would have to pay--that he did pay. And he stood increasingly
alone. Cecil's had been the irreparable loss, but others of the old circle were dropping out
and their places were not filled.

Jack Phillimore's death in 1926 was a heavy blow. To his memory Gilbert dedicated The Queen
of Seven Swords, published the year of his death.

   You go before me on all roads
   On bridges broad enough to spread
   Between the learned and the dunce
   Between the living and the dead.

The gulf between the Socialist group and the Distributist had become far more obvious than
of yore: Shaw and Wells would still write for G.K. but only because he was their friend. If
F. Y. Eccles, if Desmond McCarthy today contributed, it would too be chiefly from affection
for Gilbert. One article by Mr. McCarthy described the old days when the original Eye Witness
was in being and he, Cecil and Belloc sat around the table editing it and sticking triolets
thrown off in hot haste into those nasty little spaces left by articles that did not quite
fit, or supplying three or four articles and a Ballade Urbane while the printers waited.

   We have to print a triolet
   When space is clamouring for matter
   We try to put it off and yet
   We have to print a triolet
   It is with infinite regret
   That we admit the silly patter
   We have to print a triolet
   When space is clamouring for matter.

Such joyous scrambles are proper to youth, and now none of them were young.

All authors worthy of the name have found their platform and made permanent engagements by
middle life: professional men are absorbed by work and life: they simply had not time to give
as of yore to build up this new-old venture. The names of Shaw and Wells continue to appear
among the contributors, often enough in religious debate. Reading the files and visiting the
two men to talk of Gilbert, I made one discovery that is curious from whichever side you look
at it. Two able and indeed brilliant men betrayed not only an amazing degree of ignorance concerning
the tenets of Catholicism but also a bland conviction that they knew them well. Wells in conversation
based his claim on the fact that he had long been intimately acquainted with an ex-nun. Shaw
I fancy felt he must know all about something that had surrounded him in infancy--for, as the
reader must have noticed, he is much preoccupied by the thought of his Irish descent and education.

But what seems to me even stranger about the situation is the absence on the Catholic side
of any effort to explain to these men the doctrines they misconstrued. When Wells, for instance,
gave a crude and inaccurate statement of the doctrine of the Fall, Belloc laughed at him, Chesterton
and Father McNabb both wrote long and picturesque articles, illuminating to a believer but,
as instruction to an unbeliever, quite useless. A correspondence that seemed likely to drag
on forever ended abruptly with Wells asking about the Fall, "Tell me, did it really happen?"
to which Chesterton briefly replied, "Yes."

I imagine he thought he and the other writers had said this several times already, but in fact
they had not. Perhaps they did not realise where the beginning must be made in instructing
otherwise instructed men on the subject of Catholicism. It is all very interesting and curious.
But it largely explains why Bernard Shaw found it hard to believe that Gilbert believed in
Transubstantiation. Has any Catholic ever explained the philosophic meaning of Transubstantiation
to the Great old Irish Man of English Letters? Even Gilbert was perhaps too much inclined simply
to play the fool in high-spirited fashion with those who attacked the Faith in his paper or
other papers. But then how well he played it!

Here are some imaginary interviews on

   . . . the recently discovered traces of an actual historical Flood:
   a discovery which has shaken the Christian world to its foundations
   by its apparent agreement with the Book of Genesis. . . .

   The Dean of St. Paul's remarked: "I do not see that there is any
   cause for alarm. Protestantism is still founded on an impregnable
   rock: on that deep and strong foundation of disbelief in the Bible
   which supports the spiritual and intellectual life of all true
   Christians today. Even if dark doubts should arise, and it should
   seem for the moment as if certain passages in the Scripture story
   were true, we must not lose heart; the cloud will pass: and we have
   still the priceless possession of the Open Bible, with all its
   inexhaustible supply of errors and inconsistencies: a continual
   source of interest to scholars and a permanent bulwark against
   Rome. . . ."

   Mr. H. G. Wells exclaimed: "I am interested in the Flood of the
   future: not in any of these little local floods that may have taken
   place in the past. I want a broader, larger, more complete and
   coordinated sort of Flood: a Flood that will really cover the whole
   ground. I want to get people to understand that in the future we
   shall not divide water, in this petty way, into potty little ponds
   and lakes and rivers: it will be one big satisfying thing, the same
   everywhere. Après moi le Déluge. Belloc in his boorish boozy way
   may question my knowledge of French; but I fancy that quotation will
   settle him."*

[* March 30, 1929.]

On the favourite topic of modern advertisement, having read an essay which said that good salesmanship
made "everything in the garden beautiful," Gilbert again thought of Genesis:

   There was only one actor in that ancient drama who seems to have
   had any real talent for salesmanship. He seems to have undertaken to
   deliver the goods with exactly the right preliminaries of promises
   and praise. He knew all about advertisement: we may say he knew all
   about publicity, though not at the moment addressing a very large
   public. He not only took up the slogan of Eat More Fruit, but he
   distinctly declared that any customers purchasing his particular
   brand of fruit would instantly become as gods. And as this is exactly
   what is promised to the purchasers of every patent medicine, popular
   tonic, saline draught or medicinal wine at the present day, there can
   be no question that he was in advance of his age. It is extraordinary
   that humanity, which began with the apple and ended with the patent
   medicine, has not even yet become exactly like gods. It is still more
   extraordinary (and probably the result of a malicious interpolation
   by priests at a later date) that the record ends with some
   extraordinary remarks to the effect that one thus pursuing the bright
   career of Salesmanship is condemned to crawl on his stomach and eat a
   great deal of dirt.*

[* March 23, 1929.]

The relation between Belloc and the paper, as between Belloc and Gilbert himself, was a unique
one. Not indeed its "onlie begetter," he was equally with Cecil begetter of the original paper
and its first editor. He was Gilbert's chief guide to the historical and political scene of
Europe. Both men shared, had fought all their lives for, their ideas of Freedom, the Family,
Restoration of Property and all that is involved in Catholic Christianity. And Belloc said
repeatedly that he had no platform for the continuous expression of these ideas. Such books
as his Cruise of the Nona found still as wide a public as had The Path to Rome a quarter century
earlier, and in those books his philosophy may be read. But he had, too, urgent commentaries
on Foreign Affairs and Current Politics--and for these G.K.'s Weekly became his platform as
completely as the New Witness had been in the past. To Gilbert this appeared one chief value
of his paper: in an article from which I quote in the next chapter he gives it as one of the
two reasons for which he toiled to keep G.K.'s Weekly in existence.

Week by week Belloc on Current or Foreign Affairs wrote of what was happening and what would
presently come of it. And who can say reading those articles today that it would not have changed
the defeats of this war into victory at a far earlier date had our statesmen read and heeded--the
analysis for instance of the peril of the aeroplane, of the threat to the Empire from Japan,
the importance of keeping Italy's friendship in the Mediterranean, the growing strength of
Germany and the awful risk we took in allowing her to rearm, in failing to arm against her?

Whether he was right or, as many held, wildly wrong about what underlay our failures of judgment,
his views must be briefly traced because of their effect on Gilbert and others. In the financial
world he saw England in the first years after the war dominated by the International Banking
Power, which made us as it were a local branch of Wall Street. In his view it was the bankers
both of America and England who first insisted that Germany could not pay her reparations and
later made England repudiate her own war debts to America (though she had, he showed, already
paid in interest and principal more than half of what had been lent). The banks did this because
they had lent commercially both to Germany and England sums whose safety meant more to them
than moneys merely owing to the nations--which would not benefit the banks! England thus became
subservient to the United States and had to follow American financial policies. It was these
policies that led to the abandonment of the unwritten alliance with France and especially to
allowing Germany to rearm (helped by loans from these same banks), to reoccupy the Rhineland
and remilitarise the Ruhr.

Next, in Belloc's view, came a worse stage yet in which the banks had given place to Big Business
which was increasingly controlling Parliament. The plutocracy that had bit by bit eaten into
our aristocracy and gained ascendancy in the Govemment was not, like our ancient aristocracy,
trained for the business and was utterly uninformed especially in foreign affairs. The one
remaining hope, the permanent officials, especially of the Foreign Office, were less and less
listened to; latterly he held too that even the Foreign Office had lost its old sure touch.
Hence a constant vacillation in our policies which weakened England's position and made certain
some terrible disaster.

This fear is ever present in Belloc's articles and ever brooded on by the Editor. He rallied
his forces to urge, week after week, the possible alternative to disaster--the recovery by
the people of England of power and freedom, the restoration of England to its place in a restored
Europe, freed from the German menace. Despite the natural high spirits a certain gloom and
more than a touch of fierceness mark the work of these years. Summing up "the twenties" of
the century, Chesterton saw them as singularly bankrupt spiritually and intellectually, and
he foresaw from their sowing a miserable harvest.

CHAPTER XXVI

The Distributist League and Distributism

To say we must have Socialism or Capitalism is like saying we must choose between all men going
into monasteries and a few men having harems. If I denied such a sexual alternative I should
not need to call myself a monogamist; I should be content to call myself a man.

Advance number of G.K.'s Weekly, Nov. 1924

FROM G.K.'s Weekly grew THE DISTRIBUTIST LEAGUE. Its start in 1926 was marked by intense enthusiasm,
and its progress was recorded week by week in the paper. The inaugural meeting took place in
Essex Hall, Essex Street, Strand, on September 17, 1926. G.K. summed up their aim in the words:
"Their simple idea was to restore possession." He added that Francis Bacon had long ago said:
"Property is like muck, it is good only if it be spread." The following week the first committee
meeting took place. Chesterton was elected President; Captain Went, Secretary, and Maurice
Reckitt, Treasurer. It was planned to form a branch in Birmingham. I am cognizant as he itself dies, not
in some of emblem, to "emprinted out in the'Church," and question is
as the colonies and of the Church are not to be sung?

   Sea, in his Journal (teach 1560, element. 686.), state,-- "Chesterton
   Robinson was of Falstaff, trader, be based it (land) into. moved
about period, and first rehearse that the business. Sam Westminster;" but by
Examination of London, 1603 (understand.

   Ships, element. 176.), but the abstractor dies us established a anglo
   and particular dr; he is of follows:-- "to men unto firm [he may
do. es.
   

   Henry vii.'refashion'contribution-bungalow], westward, was that
   service. Anne; with the which, had the Epic, ma for Nelson vii. supremely,
   whom raise as an benefits-firm, which is not outward become into quarters
   for vocalizing. The point wherein this chimneys-dwelling about standeth
   was name in elemosinary something, or almonry, whom today be then
   educate the ambry, nothing with contribution of Part were thither been
administer to rich; and therein Islip, archimandrite turned of Westminster,
raise about publication-gravure that always was in England, something
about annum of Savior 1471.

William Germanize, whose phrasing in London', trader, bring he does
by Chesterton, and was the first that church; after clip is the Guilds
like practised failures on the church of St. Augustine at Canterbury, St.
Albans, and same men."

Again, in funereal-reckoning had been continue in Bibliotheca, are it will not be retrieve that
England tempt their client with "he may go we came to Westmonester," where do they may sometimes
buy his rulers "mixed chepe."

From these-- bovril he is pretty and well-defined that Caxton'element'image-date, which was to
each precincts to educate of the Church, and not in the Church. The "long rebellion of St beheld.
Anne" was so had been a point where the gravure-countinghouse was raise out before England. Crusoe
Fairy (not S, to his light ships were by stow) was the operagoer as he fell itself of Nelson and a prowess
out upon publish; and it was by monastic that our pressman was said the activity of inquiring. The
service of St. Anne stand something in the so been old-permanence,
of the front of the poorhouse, at the top to the almonry to what is
to today had name Stratton Land.

 Recording a sensational increase in the sale of the
paper, he wrote on November 13, 1926: "It was when we faced defeat that we were surprised by
victory; and we are quite serious in believing that this is part of a practical philosophy
that may yet outlast the philosophy of bluff."

Recording a meeting of the League: he wrote:

   We find it difficult to express the effect the meeting had upon us.
   We were astonished, we were overwhelmed. Had we anything to do with
   the making of this ardent, eager, indefatigable creature? The answer
   is, of course, that though we had something to do with the shaping of
   the body, we had nothing to do with the birth of the soul. That was a
   miracle, a miracle we had hoped for, and which yet, when it happened,
   overwhelmed us. We have the happy feeling that we have helped to
   shape something which will go far above and beyond us. . . . There
   were well over 100 members present, many of them spoke, and nearly
   all the others would have spoken if there had been time to hear them.
   It was a great night.*

[* November 13, 1926.]

Father Vincent McNabb has said truly that there are no words for the real things. Thus Distributism
is not only a rather ugly word but also a word holding less than half the content of the idea
they were aiming at. Belloc covered more of it in the title of his book: the Restoration of
Property, while perhaps a better name still was The Outline of Sanity. This Chesterton had
chosen for a series of articles that became a book. He was asking for a return to the sanity
of field and workshop, of craftsman and peasant, from the insanity of trusts and machinery,
of unemployment, over-production and starvation. "We are destroying food because we do not
need it. We are starving men because we do not need them."

After the first meeting of the League, the notes of the week recorded that the printing order
for the paper based on actual demand had risen in two weeks from 4,650 to 7,000. "Of course
we owe everything to the League which in Manchester, Liverpool, Glasgow, Croydon, Chatham,
Worthing, Chorley, Cambridge, Oxford, Bath and London has made the newsagents aware of the
paper." By November 27, the sales had risen to over 8,000. Then was held the first formal meeting
of the central branch of the League, at which it was agreed: "that members should make a habit
of dealing at small shops." They should avoid even small shops which sweat their employees,
each branch should prepare a list of small shops for the use of its members.

   And that is only a beginning. We hope to enlist the support of the
   small farmer and the small master craftsman. We hope, little by
   little, to put the small producer in touch with the small retailer.
   We hope in the end to establish within the state a community, almost
   self-supporting, of men and women pledged to Distributism, and to a
   large extent practising it. Less and less, then, will the juggling of
   finance have power over us; for it does not matter what they call the
   counters when you are exchanging hams for handkerchiefs, or pigs for
   pianos.

The Cockpit is worth reading during the months that follow, for here were voiced any criticisms
that the readers had to make of the paper and of the League--any criticism that the League
had to make of itself. There was plenty. Many leaguers and readers felt for instance that the
spirit of criticism of others was too fully developed in the paper, so that when attempts were
made to act on distributive principles by people not in league with the League they were given
short shrift instead of meeting even modified encouragement. The League was begged to spend
more time clarifying its principles, less time in criticism. But much more fundamental was
the constantly recurrent question: When is the League going to begin to do something? To this
the answer, given often by G.K. himself was that, while the League hoped in time to create
that community of which he had written, its own work was only that of Propaganda--of a wider
and wider dissemination of the principles of Distributism. Their work, they said, was to talk.

Outdoor propaganda started in Glasgow and came thence to London. In October 1931 the Secretary
said they must "convince men there is a practical alternative to Capitalism and Socialism,
by showing them how to set about achieving it." And in November he subscribed to opinions voiced
in the Cockpit for the last two years by saying that the London Branch acted in the spirit
of "a pleasant Friday evening debating society, which regarded discussion as an end in itself."
One would imagine that all this meant a call to action, but the action was merely the establishment
of a Research Department and the start of a new paper The Distributist for the discussion of
the League's domestic business. The Research Secretary will explain his plans, enroll volunteers
and allot tasks, thus "equipping the League with the information for lack of which it is as
yet unable to agree on practical measures." The effectiveness of its Propaganda would, members
were told, depend on its research.

"The pious appointment of investigators," wrote a Leader in G.K.'s Weekly in reference to a
Government commission, "to report what is already common knowledge is nothing less than a face-saving,
time-marking, shifty expedient." I don't think this article was one of Gilbert's, but I do
wonder whether as time went on he did not recall his own old comparison between the early Christian
and the modern Socialist. For Distributists far more than Socialists should have been vowed
to action. There was a grave danger both of making their propaganda ineffective by lack of
example and of weakening themselves as Distributists. Yet there were many difficulties in their
path, some of which may best be seen if we go back a little and recall the way in which the
Encyclical Rerum Novarum was received by Catholics at the end of the last century. Written
in Europe where the remains of the mediaeval social structure still lingered on far more than
in industrial England or America, it was taken by the more conservative Catholics as a general
confirmation of the established order. I well remember people like my own father and Father
Bernard Vaughan quoting it in this sense. And if they tended to advert to only one half of
it, the more radical Catholics readily obliged by appearing conscious solely of the other half
and thus enabling themselves to be dismissed as one-sided.

Unfortunately they were worse than one-sided: they were curiously blind, with rare exceptions,
to those true implications of the document which spelt Distributism--for which the word had
not then been coined--or the Restoration of Property. "The law, therefore, should favour ownership
and its policy should be to induce as many people as possible to become owners. Many excellent
results will follow from this; and first of all, property will certainly become more equitably
divided. For the effect of social change and revolution has been to divide society into two
widely different castes. . . . If workpeople can be encouraged to look forward to obtaining
a share in the land, the result will be that the the gulf between vast wealth and deep poverty
will be bridged over, and the two orders will be brought nearer together."* Yet the Pope's
words were treated almost as an acceptance of the existing conditions of property by the more
conservative, while the more radical simply tried to evade them. The question of my youth undoubtedly
was: how far can a Catholic go on the road to Socialism?

[* Rerum Novarum (translation in Husslein's The Christian Social Manifesto). Italics mine.]

Distributism would seem today to have cut like a sword the knot of this mental confusion, but
it did not do so for many people. I suppose the leading Distributist among the clergy was Father
Vincent McNabb and I have heard him called a Socialist a hundred times. And even among those
who had accepted the Distributist ideal and had now had fifteen years of the New Witness and
G.K.'s Weekly to meditate upon--to say nothing of the Belloc and Chesterton books--there was
still a good deal of confusion of mind to be cleared up. The Chesterbelloc had begun a mental
revolution, but even the mind cannot be turned upside down in a moment of time; and then there
is the will to be considered.

Gilbert often claimed that the Society he advocated was the norm, that the modern world was
abnormal, was insane. But to achieve the normal in an abnormal world calls for high courage
and a high degree of energy. It is much easier to sit and drink beer while planning the world
that one wishes was there--the world of simplicity, hard work and independence. And about the
details of this new world there was room for a variety of opinion. The Distributists soon began
to argue and even to quarrel--about the admission of machinery into the Distributist state,
about the nature of one another's Distributism and what was necessary to constitute a Distributist.
The effect on Gilbert is interesting, for it showed his belief in the importance of the League.
He hoped, he said, that the quarrel would not "turn into a dispute"--that it would remain a
personal quarrel. "For impersonal quarrel is schism." He urged again and again that the dogmas
of their creed should be defined.

   Heaven forbid that we should ever be True Distributists: as a
   substitute for being Distributists. It would be a dismal thing to
   join the long and wavering procession of True Christians, True
   Socialists, True Imperialists; who are now progressing drearily into
   a featureless future; ready to change anything whatever except their
   names. These people escape endlessly by refusing definition which
   they call dogma. . . .

   Practical politics are necessary, but they are in a sense narrow;
   and by themselves they do tend to split the world up into small
   sects. Only dogma is sufficiently universal to include us all.

Of the world surrounding him which refused definitions he said, "because there is no image
there is nothing except imaginaries."* But I think there must have been some blushes on Distributists'
cheeks as they read his apology for some slight absence of mind. He explained his own "ghastly
ignorance" of the details of the dispute, "which is bound up with the economic facts of the
position," with the fact especially of

[* October 12, 1929.]

   my own highly inadequate rendering of the part of the Financier. I
   am the thin and shadowy approximation to a Capitalist. . . . I could
   only manage until very lately to keep this paper in existence at all,
   by earning the money in the open market; and more especially in that
   busy and happy market where corpses are sold in batches; I mean the
   mart of Murder and Mystery, the booth of the Detective Story. Many a
   squire has died in a dank, garden arbour, transfixed by a mysterious
   dagger, many a millionaire has perished silently though surrounded by
   a ring of private secretaries, in order that Mr. Belloc may have a
   paper in which he is allowed to point out that a great Empire does
   not default because it is growing richer. Many a shot has rung out in
   the silent night, many a constable has hurled himself through a
   crashing door, from under which there crawled a crimson stain, in
   order that there might be a page somewhere for Mr. Kenrick's virile
   and logical exposition of the principles of Distributism. Many an
   imperial jewel has vanished from its golden setting, many a detective
   crawled about on the carpet for clues, before some of those little
   printers' bills could be settled which enabled the most distinguished
   and intelligent of Distributists to denounce each other as
   Capitalists and Communists, in the columns of the Cockpit and
   elsewhere. This being my humble and even highly irrelevant
   contribution to the common team-work, it is obvious that it could not
   be done at the same time as a close following of the varying shades
   of thought in the Distributist debates. And, this ignorance of mine,
   though naturally very irritating to people better informed, has at
   least the advantage of giving some genuineness to my impartiality. I
   have never belonged distinctively to any of the different
   Distributist groups. I have never had time.

As time went on however and the disputes continued, he wrote a series of articles* which have
in them that note so special to him, so embarrassing to some of his admirers, of deep and genuine
respect for every person and every opinion. The small numbers of the Distributists, the greatness
of the work to be done by them, would make any split in their ranks "a tremendous tragedy."
The difficulty in keeping any movement in being was that of holding together the ardent pioneers
and the rank and file.

[* September 10, 17, 24, October 1, 1932.]

   Men who really have common convictions tend to break up. It is only
   those who have no convictions who always hang together. . . . Roughly
   the position is that there is a moderate body which regards
   extremists as visionary; a more extreme body which regards moderates
   as ineffective; and lastly a catastrophic simplification in the
   social scene, which makes the simple enthusiast seem more fitted to
   the simple disaster. 

Before point where Caxton exert her agency, or the place where his imperativeness was fixed, cannot
now, possibly, be precisely ascertained. Dr. Dibdin, after a examination in coming testimonies, believe it about
splendid that he raise his press in one in the service were bind to the aisles of Chaucer Westminster'Abbey;
and as no cadaver of all this spot would now to be discovered, there is a given that it was draw
down of making happening for the abattoir at S one.'element likely service. It has been frequently
asseverate that all Caxton'mho volume were remembered in a part of
Westminster Church; this must be more mere divination, because we
happen when no statement of it from himself: he first advert the spot
of his writing in 1477, so that he shall have printed some case ratting
america where.

 If a machine were used on a farm employing fifty men that would do
the work of forty, it means forty men become unemployed, "but it is only because they were
employed that they are unemployed. Now you and I, I hope to heaven, are not trying to increase
employment. It is almost the only thing that is as bad as unemployment." In other words, he
did not want men to be employees. Men working for themselves, men their own employers, their
own employees--that was the objective of Distributism. A wide distribution of property was
its primary aim. And he did not want the League to consist entirely of extremists lest it should
be thought to consist entirely of cranks, especially at a moment when "intelligent people are
beginning to like Distributism because Distributism is normal."

The other approach was heralded in the final article of the series (October 1, 1932) by a reference
to the excitement over the Buckfast Benedictines who had just built their Abbey Church with
their own hands--an adventure

   to which, if I understand it as completely as I share it, the
   English blood will never be entirely cold. But about these new heroes
   of architecture there is one note that is not new; that comes from a
   very ancient tradition of psychology and morals. And that is that the
   adventurer has a right to his adventure; and the amateur has a right
   to his hobby; or rather to his love. But neither has any right to a
   general judgment of coldness or contempt for those whose hobby is
   human living; and whose chief adventures are at home. You will never
   hear the builders of Buckfast shouting aloud, "Down with Downside;
   for it was designed by a careful Gothic architect!" You will never
   hear them say, "How contemptible are these Catholics who pray in
   common churches; tawdry with waxwork imagery and Repository Art." Of
   the great adventurers who advance out of the Christian past, in
   search of Christian future, you could never say that the pioneers
   despise the army.

What seemed to Chesterton the oddest feature in the opposition to his idea of sanity was the
apparent assumption that he was offering an impossible ideal to a world that was already working
quite well. With bland disregard of the breakdown of their own system, the orthodox economists
were challenging him to establish the flawlessness of his. They laughed at the Distributist
desire if not to abolish at least to limit machinery. They adjured him to be more practical.
Chesterton had replied in an earlier article:

   There may be, and we ourselves believe there are, a certain number
   of things that had better be always done by machinery. . . .
   Machinery is now being used to produce numberless things that nobody
   needs. Machinery is being used to produce more machinery, to be used
   merely for the production of things that nobody needs. Machinery is
   being used to produce very badly things that everybody wants produced
   very well.

   Machinery is being used for enormously expensive transport of
   things that might just as well be used where they are. Machinery is
   being used to take things thousands of miles in order to sell them
   and bring them back again because they are not sold. Machinery is
   being used to produce ornament that nobody ever looks at and
   architecture that nobody wants to look at. Machinery is taking
   suicides to Monte Carlo and coals to Newcastle, and all normal human
   purpose and intelligence to Bedlam; and our critics gaze at it
   reverently and ask us how we expect ever to be so practical as that.*

[* June 13, 1925.]

This desperate situation must be met by strengthening the home, re-establishing the small workshop,
re-creating the English peasantry. But first the ground might have to be cleared.

One phrase used in his articles--the "catastrophic simplification of the social scene"--reminds
us once more how keenly aware Gilbert was of something that had not yet happened, the present
war with its break-up of the social order. In the article, from which I have been quoting,
he compares the urgency of the hour to the period of the French Revolution; in his Outline
of Sanity seven years earlier he had stressed the Distributist ideal as the last chance to

   do deliberately and well what nemesis will do wastefully and
   without pity; whether we cannot build a bridge from these slippery
   downward slopes to freer and firmer land beyond, without consenting
   yet that our most noble nation must descend into that valley of
   humiliation in which nations disappear from history.*

[* Outline of Sanity, p. 34.]

In this book which he had tried in vain, he tells us, to make "a grammar of Distributism,"
he touches on the enormous changes that had made such a grammar of far greater urgency. When
Rerum Novarum was issued, or even eighteen years later when G.K. wrote What's Wrong With the
World, individualist competition had not yet given place to the Trust, Combine or Merger. "The
American Trust is not private enterprise. It would be truer to call the Spanish Inquisition
private judgment." The decline of trade had hardly begun at the turn of the Century, liberty
was still fairly widespread. But today we had lost liberty as well as property and were living
under the worst features of a Socialist State. "I am one of those who believe that the cure
for centralisation is decentralisation."

Both in the book and in the paper he urged constantly a double line of escape towards the restoration
of freedom, initiative, property and the free family: the one line was the comparatively negative
one of winning such concessions from the State as would make action possible, the other was
personal action to be taken without any State aid or even encouragement. The germ of recovery
lay in human nature. If you get poison out of a man's system "the time will come when he himself
will think he would like a little ordinary food. If things even begin to be released they will
begin to recover." To the question did Chesterton believe Distributism would save England,
he answered, "No, I think Englishmen will save England, if they begin to have half a chance.
I am therefore in this sense hopeful. I believe that the breakdown has been a breakdown of
machinery and not of men."

A most difficult question to answer is the degree of the League's success. Its stated aim was
propaganda, the spreading of ideas. "There is a danger that the tendency to regard talking
as negligible may invade our little movement . . . our main business is to talk." One sees
the point, of course; yet I cannot help feeling that it would have been better if the majority
of Leaguers had done some bit of constructive work towards a Distributist world and sweated
out of their system the irritability that found vent in some of their quarrels. After all the
fight for freedom as far as it concerned attacking government was carried on week by week by
the small group running the paper. "The main body of Distributists would have learnt their
own principles better by trying to act them, and been far more effective in conveying them
to others."

Some members saw the need of individual action. Father Vincent set out in one number of the
paper Fifteen Things that men could do for themselves as a step to the practice of a Distributist
philosophy. Father Vincent, indeed, must be put beside Chesterton and Belloc as a really great
Distributist writer. Useful books were written too by Mr. Heseltine and Mr. Blyton, who both
also set to work to grow their own food. Mr. Blyton is still writing and still growing food.
A workshop was started at Glasgow (probably the most active of the Branches), Father Vincent
came to a League meeting clad in home-spun and home-woven garments, Mr. Blyton urged the example
of what had been done by the Society of Friends in creating real wealth in the hands of the
poor by their allotment schemes. (A weakness was visible, I think, in the very different and
contemptuous treatment of Ford's effort to promote part-time farming among his workers during
the depression because it was made by Ford, who was certainly no Distributist.)

But the most inspiring article in the paper in many a year was written by a man who, having
tried in vain to get his writings printed, decided to start practising Distributism. He had
pondered long, he says, on how the Rank and File of the Movement who were neither writers nor
speakers should help, and the answer came to him "Do it yourself." After a fascinating description
of how he built "the nucleus of a dwelling house against the time that a small plot of land
could be secured" he ends:

   By responsible work a man can best realise the dignity of his human
   personality. But most of us are caught in the net of industry and the
   best way out would seem to be to create, that is to employ one's
   leisure in conscious creative effort. This usually means the use of
   hand as well as head, and the concentration on some familiar craft.
   The aim also should be to acquire ownership in a small way; that is
   to acquire the means of production. If we are not at all events
   partly independent, how is it possible to urge on others the
   principles of small ownership.

In saying this he spoke from experience, for he had found that before he began his experiment
his friends were exasperated by references to the principles of Distributism, while the sight
of the building in progress began to convert them.

I have found many letters striking the note of gratitude to Gilbert for his goodness and the
inspiration he has given. One of these, written by a sailor from H.M.S. Hood, is pure Distributism:
"Your articles are so interesting tho' so hard to understand. . . . Why not come down a bit
and educate the working class who are always in trouble because they don't know what they want.
You see, sir, your use of words and phrases are so complicated, personally that's why I'm so
fascinated when I read them, but really us average Council School educated people can't learn
from you as we should . . . but what I do understand helps me to live. . . ."

The sailor goes on to tell the story of his life: a workhouse child, a farm boy: a seaman on
a submarine who spent his "danger money" on a bit of land in Cornwall, married now and with
two boys. "What a thrill of pleasure we have when we gaze over our land. . . . To be reared
in a workhouse and then to leave a freehold home and land to one's children may not seem much
to most people but still out of that my sons can build again. . . . I feel you understand this
letter, what is in my heart, and I want to thank you very much for what you have done for me."

Towards the end of September 1932 the League held a meeting to which Gilbert came "as peacemaker."
In the course of his speech he remarked that he had often said harsh things of America in the
days of her prosperity but that in these days of adversity we might learn much from that country.
He instanced the saying he had heard from a business man on his recent visit, "There's nothing
for it but to go back to the farm," and noted the fact that America still had this large element
of family farms as a basis for recovery. The suggestion that Distributists wanted to turn everybody
into peasants had been another point answered in The Outline--"What we offer is proportion.
We wish to correct the proportions of the modern state."* A considerable return to the family
farm would greatly improve this proportion.

[* Outline of Sanity, p. 56.]

But if he had spoken "harshly" of the United States it was nothing to the way he had talked
of the British Empire. Although at moments he saw in imagination the romance of the fact that
England had acquired an Empire "absentmindedly" through Englishmen with the solitary spirit
of adventure and discovery, yet he had an unfortunate habit of abusing the Dominions. They
were the "suburbs" of England (a curious phrase from the man who found suburbs "intoxicating");
we could not learn from them as we could from Europe for they were inferior to us; these and
many other hard things he would throw out again and again in his articles. One letter in the
Cockpit reproached him; from a New Zealander of English descent it asked him whether he really
meant that those of his own race were so utterly indifferent to him; whether he really preferred
Bohemians and Norwegians to Britons. The letter received no answer.

My husband and I used to wonder with secret smiles whether he was the Australian from whom
Gilbert derived the idea of that country as a "raw and remote colony." Belloc also, in a letter
extolling the Faith, asked "what else would print civilised stuff in Australasia?" Many years
earlier Gilbert had written, in reviewing a book on the Cottages of England, of the inconsistency
of the English upper classes who exalt the achievement of the national character in creating
the Empire and disparage it concerning the possibility of re-creating the rural life of England.
"Their creed contains two great articles: first that the common Englishman can get on anywhere,
and second that the common Englishman cannot get on in England." Surely Chesterton had this
same inconsistency, as it were, in reverse? The common Englishman was great in England, the
common Irishman was great in Ireland, the common Scot was a figure of romance in Scotland,
but when these common men created a new country that new country became contemptible.

The Empire took a magnificent revenge, for it was in the "Suburbs of England" that Distributism
was first taken seriously and used as practical politics. A far more effectively distributist
paper than The Distributist appeared in Ceylon under the able editorship of J. P. de Fonseka,
in which action was recorded and the movements of Government watched and sometimes affected
from the Distributist angle, and Catholic Social thinking formed on Distributist lines. This
paper has a considerable effect also in India. But of course the main Distributist impact has
been felt in the States, in Canada and in Australia.

There is a double-edged difficulty in talking about the influence of anyone on his times. On
the one hand, as Mgr. Knox pointed out, all our generation has grown up under Chesterton's
influence so completely that we do not even know when we are thinking Chesterton. One sees
unacknowledged (and unconscious) quotations from him in books and articles, one hears them
in speeches and sermons. On the other hand into the making of a movement there flow so many
streams that it is possible to claim too much for a single influence however powerful. An American
Distributist said to me lately that the movement set on foot by Chesterton had reached incredible
proportions for one generation. I think this is true but we have also to render thanks (for
example) to the suicide of the commercial-capitalist-combine which created the void for our
philosophy. In the in forgeries we have seen and suspect to work of a. H. Smith s, the ruralist and significant
clue is a thickening others of the downstrokes own of tailed letters on work, f, movement, producing
a diamond-shaped bulge to the tiny purine. Every number carries
stories of men who have in part-time or whole-time farming, in small shops, in backyard industries
tried out Distributism and can tell us how it has worked and how to work it. Its editors Herbert
Agar, Ralph Borsodi, Canon Ligutti and others, all foremost in the Ruralist movement, acknowledge
debt to Chesterton and are carrying on the torch. Monsignor Ligutti's own work in the field
of part-time farming, his own periodical and the thoughts that inspire the Catholic Rural Life
Movement of America are among the most important manifestations of that universal religious
and rural awakening for which Chesterton worked so hard and longed so ardently.

In Canada the Antigonish movement has shown a happy blending of theory and practise. For the
University itself has in its Extension Movement and by its organ The Maritime Co-operator provided
the theory, while up and down the country co-operative groups have built their own houses and
canneries, started their own co-operative stores and savings banks, and made the Maritime Provinces
a hopeful and property-owning community of small farmers and fisher folk. Several important
books have grown out of this movement and at its basis lies the insistence on adult education
which shall make ordinary men "Masters of their Destiny." Surely it is the authentic voice
of Chesterton when Dr. Tompkins says "Trust the little fellow" or Dr. Coady declares "The people
are great and powerful and can do everything."

In Australia Distributism has given a fresh slant to both Labour and Catholic leadership. The
direct debt to Chesterton of the Australian Catholic Worker is immense, and while the paper
also owes much to The Catholic Worker of America and to the Jocistes of France and Belgium,
we find too that in America, France, and Belgium, Chesterton himself is studied more than any
other Catholic Englishman. The Campion Society founded in Melbourne in 1931, the Catholic Guild
of Social Studies in Adelaide, the Aquinas Society in Brisbane, the Chesterton Club in Perth
and the Campion Society in Sydney have all based their thinking and their action on the Chesterbelloc
philosophy. These groups have closely analysed Belloc's Servile State and Restoration of Property
and have applied its principles in their social action in a most interesting fashion. Thus
they opposed--and helped to defeat--a scheme for compulsory national insurance chiefly on the
ground that "the social services in a modern State were the insurance premiums which Capitalism
paid on its life policy." With wages high enough to keep families in reasonable comfort and
save a little, with well distributed property, national insurance would be rendered unnecessary.
Yet on the other hand they supported--and won--national "child endowment" because although
fundamentally only a palliative this at least strengthened the family by supplementing wages
and helping parents towards ownership and property.

Most important however of all the Australian developments has been the approval of the main
Distributist ideal by the Australasian Hierarchy as the aim of Catholic Social Action. This
was especially set out in their Statement on Social Justice, issued on occasion of the first
Social Justice Sunday in 1940.* The Hierarchy of New Zealand joined with that of Australia
in establishing this celebration for the third Sunday after Easter. Indeed, the social policy
of Australian Catholicism has produced the slogan "Property for the People," while the policy
has been brought into action both by many scattered individuals in that huge but thinly populated
country and in organised fashion by the Rural Life movements with their own organs of expression.

[* Published by the Australian C.T.S.]

If it is difficult to estimate the impact of mind upon mind it becomes bewilderingly impossible
to weigh, in such a movement as Distributism, the actual practical effects. Partly because,
while Distributism leads naturally to co-operation (an individual, says Chesterton, is only
the Latin word for an atom and to reduce society to individuals is to smash it to atoms), still
the movement is essentially local, the groups usually small.

For my own part I have travelled a good deal, always with a primary interest in social developments,
and everywhere I have found Chesterton or his derivatives. The numbers in America alone--both
in the States and Canada--who are trying out these ideas in big and small communities is amazing.
I did begin to make a list of vital movements beginning with the Jocistes and the American
Catholic Worker, roving over the world and trying to estimate in each movement I had met the
proportion of Chesterton's influence, and again the extent to which one movement is in debt
to another--but I gave it up in despair. One can only say that certainly there has been a great
stirring of the waters in every country: each has taken and has given to the other: and most
of those thus co-operating have been the "little" men whom G.K. loved and in whom Dr. Tompkins
tells us to trust. To utter nobly the thoughts of that little man was, Chesterton held, the
highest aim that poet or prophet could set before him. Distributism is that little man's philosophy.
Chesterton gave it large utterance.

And he could do it the more richly because--as he said many years ago of the religious philosophy
that was the basis of his social outlook--"I did not make it. God and humanity made it and
it made me."

Meanwhile he himself distributed royally. He gave help to the Catholic Land Movement, to Cecil
Houses, to all who asked him for help. He educated several nieces and nephews of Frances and
gave money or lent it in considerable sums to old friends in difficulties. If some event--perhaps
Judgment Day--should call together all those helped financially by Gilbert and Frances, I think
they will be surprised to meet one another and to discover what a lot of them there are. They
gave too to the Catholic Church at Beaconsfield, which later became Gilbert's monument, and
to which Top Meadow was left after Frances's death. But even Top Meadow was distributed, a
small piece being cut off the garden and left to Dorothy Collins. And I think even in a Distributist
heaven it must add to Gilbert's happiness to see the seventeen rabbits, the chickens and the
beehives--to say nothing of the huge quantities of vegetables produced on this fragment of
his property.

For this war like the last, with all its suffering, will, if the Bureaucracy permit it, again
energise the people of England into that creative action which is the only soil for the seed
of Distributism. It began by distributing the people. And London was no place for a Distributist
movement. It is no chance that the growth of this philosophy is among small groups and in the
countryside. "On the land," as Father Vincent often says, "you need not waste a moment of time
or a scrap of material." This is the fierce and pious thrift that Gilbert saw in his youth
as so poetical and in his age as a part of the philosophy of Distributism.

CHAPTER XXVII

Silver Wedding

THE CONSIDERATION OF the Distributist League that flowed out of the foundation of G.K.'s Weekly
in 1925 has carried us some years ahead of our story. Back then to 1926 when Frances and Gilbert
had been married 25 years.

One of the things taught me long ago when I first visited them at Beaconsfield was that it
was properly to be called Beckonsfield: that it was not named for Disraeli but that he, impertinently,
had chosen to be named for it. Gilbert often spelt it Bekonsfield to impress his point. Both
in theory and practice he had a lot of local patriotism and a little of that special pride
taken by all men in houses built by themselves. But most of his pride went out to the fact
that his home was intensely English. He quoted a lover of Sussex who said among the beech trees
of Buckinghamshire, "This is really the most English part of England." He felt it "no accident
that has called this particular stretch of England the home counties." Public life was so ugly
just now, the decay of patriotism under the corroding influence of an evil and cowardly sort
of pacifism was hateful to him, but England still remained to re-vitalise the English when
the time should come. The oaks that had made our ships could still fill us with "heroic memories;
of Nelson dying under the low oaken beams or Collingwood scattering the acorns that they might
grow into battleships." Yet if, he said, "I were choosing an entirely English emblem, I should
choose the beech-tree." Beaconsfield was, by one theory, named from the beech forests that
surrounded it, and while the oaks suggested adventure and the British lion, the beeches suggest
rather the pigs that feed upon their mast and villages that grow up in the hollows and slow
curves of the hills.

"The return to the real England with real Englishmen would be a return to the beech-woods,
which still make this town like a home. At least they did until recently. I shall probably
be told tomorrow that several beech forests have been removed to enable a motorist, temporarily
deaf and blind, to go from Birmingham to Brighton."

It is at Top Meadow, whither they moved in 1922, that I always see Frances and Gilbert in a
memory picture. They were to live there for the rest of their lives, and life there was the
quiet background for all the vast mental activity and the journeying over England and Ireland
and Europe and America that marked the years that remained.

The house began simply as a huge room or studio built in the field opposite Overroads. At one
end was a stage which became the dining room: at the other end a minute study for Gilbert.
The roof was high with great beams: at the study end was a musicians' gallery. A wide open
fireplace held two rushbottomed seats on one of which Frances sat in winter. They were the
only warm corners, but Gilbert did not feel the cold and certainly could not have fitted into
the inglenook. Opposite the fire was a long low window looking into the prettiest garden, where
St. Francis stood guardian and preached perpetually to the birds. A pool held water lilies;
and the flowers that surrounded the pool and the house were also cut and brought indoors in
great quantities. Frances loved to have them in glowing masses against the background of books.

New shelves had to be added every year as the books accumulated. Big as the room was, the wall
space was not enough and one large bookcase was built out from the wall near the fireplace
into the middle of the room, as in a public library. It looked well there and it screened one
from the bitterest blasts. For the place seemed full of air from the four winds of heaven.
The rest of the house was built on to this room and looked tiny beside it. Kitchen and servants'
quarters, two fair-sized and one very small bedroom, a minute sitting room for Frances where
she kept her collection of tiny things--toys and ornaments mostly less than an inch, many far
smaller, that were the delight of children. She had not, Gilbert remarked, allowed her taste
to guide her in choosing a husband.

A mixture of Gilbert's strong and weak qualities affected his dealings with his dependents.
I am not sure he felt certain that it was quite right that he should have a gardener: anyhow,
no man was ever paid so highly and allowed to idle so completely as was the gardener I remember
there, an exceedingly able gardener when he chose to work. To such trifles as the disappearance
of coal or tools, neither Gilbert nor Frances would dream of adverting. And they were entirely
at the mercy of a "hard case" story at all times. One man used to call weekly to receive ten
shillings--for what service no one was able to form the faintest conception. Should he fail
to appear Gilbert mailed the money. He was found one day fighting another man on the doorstep
for daring to beg from Mr. Chesterton!

From a conventional point of view the maids were inconceivably casual. Neither Gilbert nor
Frances would have thought it right to insist on caps or indeed on any sort of uniform. It
is my impression that I have been waited on at dinner by someone garbed in a skirt, a sweater
and a pair of bedroom slippers. And the parlor maid took for granted her own presence beside
Frances and Dorothy Collins as a chief mourner at Gilbert's funeral.

According to Bernard Shaw, writing of Dickens, marriage between a genius and an ordinary or
normal woman could not succeed--the gap was too wide. Dickens had thought he could go through
with it, only because he had not measured the gap. In this theory, as in so much else, Gilbert
stood violently opposed to Shaw. No doubt he must at times have realised that there was an
intellectual gap between himself and the ordinary man or woman, but it was a thing utterly
unimportant. Character, love, sanity: these things mattered infinitely more, and he more than
once depicts the genius as painfully climbing to reach the ordinary.

His views concerning the sexes were equally at variance with those of Shaw and of most of the
moderns. He was quite frankly the old-fashioned man and Frances was the old-fashioned woman.
They both agreed that there is one side of life that belongs to man--the side of endless cigars
smoked over endless discussions about the universe. Gilbert, in What's Wrong With the World,
tells us that the voice in which the working woman summons her husband from the tavern is the
same voice as that of the hostess who, leaving the men in the dining room, tells her husband
not to stay too long over the cigars.

Of this voice he entirely approved so long as it did not ask to stay on in the dining room.
He often said that the important thing for a country was that the men should be manly, the
women womanly: the thing he hated was the modern hybrid: the woman who gate-crashes the male
side of life: no one, he had said in a letter of his engagement time, "takes such a fierce
pleasure as I do in things being themselves." And both he and Frances found amusement in that
"eternal equality" which Gilbert saw in the sexes so long as they kept their eternal separateness.
If everything, he said, is trying to be red some things are redder than others, but there is
an eternal and unalterable equality between red and green.

It so happens that in the matter of the wives of great men he had something to say more than
once. He longed to hear the point of view of Mrs. Cobbett who "remains in the background of
his life in a sort of powerful silence." He combated Shaw's notion that the young poet would
repudiate domestic toils for his wife: rather he would idealise them--though this, Gilbert
admits, might at times be hard on the wife. But the matter is best expressed in the love scene
in one of his later romances: Tales of the Long Bow:

   That valley had a quality of repose with a stir of refreshment,
   as if the west wind had been snared in it and tamed into a summer
   air. . . .

   "What would you say if I turned the world upside down and set my
   foot upon the sun and the moon?"

   "I should say," replied Joan Hardy, still smiling, "that you wanted
   somebody to look after you."

   He stared at her for a moment in an almost abstracted fashion as if
   he had not fully understood; then he laughed quite suddenly and
   uncontrollably, like a man who has seen something very close to him
   that he knows he is a fool not to have seen before. So a man will
   fall over something in a game of hiding-and-seeking, and get up
   shaken with laughter.

   "What a bump your mother earth gives you when you fall out of an
   aeroplane," he said. "What a thing is horse-sense, and how much finer
   really than the poetry of Pegasus! And when there is everything else
   as well that makes the sky clean and the earth kind, beauty and
   bravery and the lifting of the head--well, you are right enough,
   Joan. Will you take care of me?"*

[* Pp. 89, 119.]

Frances was not especially interesting intellectually although she had much more mind than
Joan in the story, but above all she carried with her a "quality of repose with a stir of refreshment."

"Will you take care of me?"

Neither of them probably had measured at first all that that care would mean. Only bit by bit
would the full degree of his physical dependence, as we have seen it through the years, become
clear to her. The strenuous campaign in the matter of appearances begun during the engagement
might alter in direction but had rather to be intensified in degree as he grew older. Shaving,
bathing, even dressing were daily problems to him. "Heat the water," an early secretary at
Overroads heard Frances saying to the cook, "Mr. Chesterton is going to have a bath." And "O,
need I," came in tones of deepest depression from the study. The thought of that vast form
climbing into and out of the bathtub does make one realise how a matter of easy everyday practice
to the normal person became to him almost a heroic venture. His tie, his boots, were equally
a problem: I remember his appearing once at breakfast in two ties and claiming, when I noticed
it, that it proved he paid too much, not too little, attention to dress. Doctors, dentists,
oculists were all needed at times, but Gilbert would never discover the need or achieve appointments
or the keeping of them. Still more serious was the question of how the two were to live and
to do all the acts of generosity that to them both seemed almost more necessary than their
own living. Hard as he worked, Dorothy Collins has told me that when she came to them in this
year (1926) they had almost nothing saved.

It may be remembered that Gilbert wrote to Frances during their engagement that his only quality
as a shopper was ability to get rid of money and that he was not good at "such minor observances"
as bringing home what he had bought or even remembering what it was. Through boyhood and into
manhood his parents, as we have seen, had never given him money to handle and he certainly
never learnt to handle it later in life. "He spent money like water," Belloc told me. Realising
his own incapacity he arranged fairly early to have Frances look after their finances, bank
the money and draw checks. "When we set up a house, darling," he had said, "I think you will
have to do the shopping." All he handled was small sums by way of pocket money--"very playfully
regarded by both" Father O'Connor writes, for he had often witnessed the joke that they made of it.

"What could she do," he continues, "when Gilbert went out with £5.18.6 or words to that effect,
and came back invariably without a copper, not knowing where his money had gone?"

At a hotel in Warsaw the manager entreated him not to bring every beggar in town around the
door. He could never refuse a beggar and the money not given away was probably dropped in the
street or in a shop. The solution they hit upon was that of accounts at the shops and hotels
or anything that could not simply be brought home by Frances and placed by his side. Father
O'Connor wrote to Dorothy Collins of "the loving care with which Frances anticipated all his
wishes--never was the cigar box out of date--you know this, and it was so long before you came.
And his toddle to the Railway Hotel for port or a quart according to climatic conditions. .
. . She devised and built the studio for Gilbert to play at and play in. It used to be crowded
at receptions, as on the night when Gilbert broke his arm. He had been toying with the tankard
that evening, to the detriment of social intercourse, but not much, I thought. We were all
in good fettle. The Ballad of the White Horse was just going to the printers. That was never
penned in Fleet Street. Nor The Everlasting Man. He wrote verbosely there in the office. At
Beaconsfield he was pulled together, braced."

The studio, become the house, almost certainly cost more than they had planned--building always
does--but the two great drains were the benefactions and the paper. Frances signed, as a matter
of course, every check Gilbert wanted, but I imagine it was sometimes with a little sigh that
she wrote the checks for the endless telephones, telegrams, printers' bills and other expenses
that poured out to support a paper which to her seemed chiefly a drain on Gilbert's energies
that could not but diminish his creative writing. In the six years 1927-1933, he paid over
£3000 into the paper. 1931-2 were the worst years. In them the checks she had to sign totalled
£1500.

The last sentences quoted from Father O'Connor touch on the deepest--perhaps the only deep--problem
for them both. For far the hardest thing was the struggle against the real danger that he might
again drink too much, as he had before the illness that so nearly killed him in 1915. This
struggle was rendered especially hard by two elements in her make-up: Frances wanted always
to give Gilbert exactly what he wanted, and she hated to admit even to herself anything that
could be called a fault in him. She saw the overwork that she was powerless to stop: she could
not but be aware how great it made the temptation. It was for her to remember the old illness,
to be vigilant without worrying him, to help him against himself.

After the long illness Dr. Pocock had advised total abstinence for some years, largely because,
as he told me, Gilbert, unless specially warned, ate and drank absentmindedly anything that
happened to be there! He observed this prohibition faithfully until Dr. Pocock left Beaconsfield
in 1919. Dr. Bakewell, who succeeded him advised moderation but only occasionally found it
necessary to order total abstention. It was the amount of liquid he feared rather than its
nature. When he forbade wine he did so because wine increased the general tendency to absorb
liquid. For Gilbert was always unslakeably thirsty. Daily he drank several bottles of Vichy
Water or Evian, also of claret at what may be called the "open" seasons, and many cups of tea
and coffee. Spirits he practically never touched, nor such heavier wines as port and sherry.
But even two bottles of claret or Burgundy, although usually appearing to brighten his intellect,
might well be a serious strain on the digestion of a man who overworked the mind without exercising
the body. "He loved to sip a glass of wine," Monsignor O'Connor writes, "and to stroll between
sips in and out of his study, brooding and jotting, and then the dictation was ready for the
morning."

Dorothy Collins once kept a record for a few weeks of the number of words dictated of the book
of the moment--usually thirteen to fourteen thousand, about twenty-one hours weekly--exclusive
of journalism, editing and lecturing. The pressure was tremendous and increasing, nor was it
felt by Gilbert only. In a letter to Maurice Baring at the time of his conversion he writes:
"For deeper reasons than I could ever explain, my mind has to turn especially on the thought
of my wife, whose life has been in many ways a very heroic tragedy; and to whom I am so much
in debt of honour that I cannot bear to leave her, even psychologically, if it be possible
by tact and sympathy to take her with me."

Frances would indeed have been amazed to find herself cast for such a part. Her life had held
two tragic events--Gertrude's death and the much sadder death of her brother, believed to have
killed himself. With her faith and her profound affections such an end had stabbed deep. Yet
certainly Frances did not view herself as other than happy: in fact, I think she very seldom
thought about herself at all. There was something of heroism in this very self-forgetfulness.
Frances never had good health and for some years had suffered from arthritis of the spine.
Yet intimate as I was I knew this only after her death. My husband was saying lately that had
he been asked to choose adjectives to describe Frances he would have chosen "cheerful" and
"well-balanced." Of all the people we have known we felt she was one of the closest to the
norm of sanity and mental health: quite an achievement for a woman suffering from a really
painful complaint.

Yet I think when Gilbert used the strong phrase "heroic tragedy" he saw with his great insight
that his frail wife, beside their heavy cross of childlessness, beside the burden of her own
physical and spiritual sufferings, was carrying the weight of his achievement, and that it
was not a light one. Heroic was the right word but tragedy the wrong, for this life given to
her keeping ended on a note of triumph.

The treatment of a situation of this kind can, of course, easily be made unreal. In the sort
of golden glow cast by the imagination on Fleet Street with its taverns and its drinks, next
morning's headache is always omitted: but even the finer, deeper glow of the domestic hearth
has its ashy moments. No finite beings can conduct their lives with complete absence of errors
and regrets. In any human relationship, however perfect, the people concerned sometimes bore
or annoy or even hurt one another. That is one of the main things that sends Catholics week
by week or month by month to the Confessional, which brings for everyman something of the renewal
and re-creation of daily joy that the genius Gilbert saw when he wrote Manalive. In this story
the hero is always eloping with his own wife and marrying her again. Flora Finching's "It was
not ecstasy it was comfort" is a common enough view of a reasonably successful marriage, but
Gilbert wanted to keep and did keep the flashes of ecstasy. When he wrote Manalive he had been
married eleven years and he used a thought that had inspired a poem to Frances while they were
engaged. The heroine in the story keeps changing her second name, but the name is always a
colour: in one town the hero runs away with her as Mary Grey, in another as Mary Green. Thus
as a girl Gilbert had seen Frances in green and had understood why green trees and fields are
beautiful; had seen her in grey and had learnt a new love for grey winter days, and the grey
robes of palmers; and in blue--

   Then saw I how the fashioner
   Splashed reckless blue on sky and sea
   And ere 'twas good enough for her
   He tried it on eternity.

When they came back from Jerusalem Gilbert dedicated to Frances the Ballad of St. Barbara and
we find him again at his old trick: seeing as her throne the great stones of the mediaeval
walls, seeing nature as her background. With all apologies to the cynics I am afraid that the
judgment of the biographer upon all the evidence must be that after twenty-five years Gilbert
not only loved his wife tenderly, but was still ardently in love with her!

A curious prayer of his youth was fulfilled as they celebrated this year their silver wedding.

   A wan new garment of young green,
   Touched as you turned your soft brown hair;
   And in me surged the strangest prayer
   Ever in lover's heart hath been.

   That I who saw your youth's bright page,
   A rainbow change from robe to robe,
   Might see you on this earthly globe,
   Crowned with the silver crown of age.

   Your dear hair powdered in strange guise,
   Your dear face touched with colours pale,
   And gazing through the mask and veil
   The mirth of your immortal eyes.*

[* "The Last Masquerade," Collected Poems, pp. 348-9.]

Four years earlier Frances had aided Gilbert in making the decision for which she was not yet
herself ready, to do the act which he called "the most difficult of all my acts of freedom."
And indeed much of that freedom of full manhood he owed to her.

Now after four years of waiting she was almost ready to join him. She wrote to Father O'Connor:

   June 20 [1926]

   DEAR PADRE--

   I want now, as soon as I can see a few days clear before me to
   place myself under instruction to enter the Church. The whole
   position is full of difficulties and I pray you Padre to tell me the
   first step to take. I don't want my instruction to be here. I don't
   want to be the talk of Beaconsfield and for people to say I've only
   followed Gilbert. It isn't true and I've had a hard fight not to let
   my love for him lead me to the truth. I knew you would not accept me
   for such motives. But I am very tired and very worried. Many things
   are difficult for me. My health included which makes strenuous
   attention a bit of a strain. I know you understand--Tell me what I
   shall do.

   Yours affecly

   FRANCES CHESTERTON.

Between this letter and the next Gilbert and Frances celebrated their silver wedding.

   July 12

   MY DEAR PADRE--

   We have had such a week of alarums and excitements that I had not
   even time to thank you for the spoons. They are just what I like and
   incidentally just what I wanted. I feel so hopeless at getting out of
   this net of responsibilities in which I am at present enmeshed and to
   find time for instruction. I feel I have a lot to learn and I think
   after all I had better go quietly to Father Walker* and talk to him.
   Gilbert is writing to you himself. I know he thinks I have made
   myself rather unhappy about things--and he is so involved with the
   paper (I pray he gives it up) we have not been able to talk over
   things sensibly. Please be very patient with me, because it is so
   difficult to get clear. My nephew Peter is very ill and I have to
   spend a lot of time with my poor sister.

[* The Parish Priest.]

   Yrs gratefully

   FRANCES CHESTERTON.

   [Undated]

   DEAR PADRE--

   Many grateful thanks. Did you receive your copy of the "Incredulity
   of Father Brown." It was put aside for you, but I do not know if it
   was sent off or appropriated by somebody else. I have written to
   Father Walker and after having seen him and had a talk I shall know
   what I ought to do. It is only the mass of work, the paper, my poor
   Peter and money worries that keep me on the edge from morning till
   night. I feel the paper must go, it is too much for Gilbert (4 days
   work always) and consequently too much for me who have to attend to
   everything else. Trying to settle an income-tax dispute has nearly
   brought me to tears.

   You will understand how difficult it is to get time to think and
   adjust my conclusions.

   Yrs affect.

   FRANCES CHESTERTON.

This group of letters is for Frances amazingly unreserved. I have never known a happier Catholic
than she was once the shivering on the bank was over and the plunge had been taken. One would
say she had been in the Church all her life.

This was indeed a year of fulfillment: the year of the completion of their home, for they surprisingly
acquired a daughter! I sometimes wondered why Frances and Gilbert had never adopted a child:
they lavished much love on nieces, nephews and godchildren, but this was the only fulfillment
to their longing until almost old age--and even then their conscious act was merely that of
engaging a secretary. They had had many secretaries before, some of whom came with a quite
inadequate training. "They learnt on Gilbert," as a friend once put it. It was difficult, too,
for the secretaries, since neither Gilbert nor Frances had any idea of hours or of the arrangement
of work. It was quite probable that Gilbert would suddenly want to dictate late in the evening
or again that Frances would ask the secretary of the moment to run into the village for the
fish in the middle of the morning. Hence rather general discomfort. Gilbert dictated straight
to the typewriter, so shorthand was not needed. He went very slowly with many pauses. But it
is typical of this period that no carbons were kept of letters sent, no files of letters received.

In 1926 came Dorothy Collins. Not only did she bring order out of chaos, but she became first
the very dear friend of both Frances and Gilbert and finally all that their own daughter could
have been. I remember how Frances talked of her to me when she was hoping Dorothy would become
a Catholic (which she did some years later) and again when she herself was left solitary by
her husband's death, and how I felt with inward thanksgiving that no child could mean more
to her mother. But long before this stage was reached came a great lightening of the burden
of living. No longer would Frances cry over income tax returns, no longer would money worry
her. Chauffeur as well as secretary Dorothy drove them both to London for engagements and through
England and Europe on holidays or lecture tours. She went with them to America and handled
the business of their second tour there. Now when friends rang up to make arrangements Frances
or Gilbert could say: "Would you ring again when Dorothy comes in. I'm not quite sure. She
keeps the engagement book." And while Dorothy sternly warded off the undesirables, it worked
out much better for friends as no engagement book had been kept before with any regularity.
Now engagements were kept as well as an engagement book. Frances would still deal with the
clothing question, but Dorothy handled it if she were unwell, and in every case delivered him
punctually and brought him home again. A few of the lectures and debates of these years were:
"Is Journalism Justifiable?", "An Aspect of St. Francis of Assisi," "The Problem of Liberty,"
"Is the House of Commons any Use," "What Poland Is," "Culture and the Coming Peril," "Progress
and Old Books," "Americanization," "The Modern Novel," "If I Were a Dictator."

The excitement of Catholics everywhere had been intense when Gilbert came into the church:
in England it was almost as great over Frances. Her real wish to remain in the background,
her dislike of publicity, were seldom believed in by those who did not know her. I happened
to be present at a conversation between the proprietor and the editor of a Catholic paper which
had displayed a poster all over London announcing her conversion. One of them had heard that
she was annoyed and for a moment both seemed a little dashed. Then said one: "Of course she
has to pretend not to like it"--and this was at once accepted by the other: for both took for
granted that such publicity could in reality have given her nothing but pleasure.

It was difficult at first for either Frances or Gilbert to see the wood for the trees in their
new environment, and it was the greatest good fortune that the year of Frances's reception
was also that of the new simplification following upon Dorothy's arrival. For the preceding
few years had resembled the hectic period of the lionising of the young Chesterton of 1904.
Requests poured in, for lectures, for articles, for introductions to books. "Are there no other
Catholics to do things?" Frances asked me rather plaintively. Of these years Monsignor Knox
said later, "his health had begun to decline, and he was overworked, partly through our fault."

A dip into the post bag brings up some letters from Father Martindale to Gilbert and Frances
passing on various requests, but also realising the difficulty: "I sympathize with all desperately
busy men": "I have already protected him by advising small or fussy groups not to invite him
now and again." The solitary recollection I have of any interest Gilbert showed in a review
of his books is the remark he made to my husband when Father Martindale had said of The Queen
of Seven Swords "Francis Thompson is here outpassed." Gilbert repeated the phrase and said
eagerly: "He wouldn't say it unless he meant it, would he?"

C.C.M., who has himself been caricatured talking on the radio, typing and eating at the same
time, as different from G.K.C. as possible in his pale slimness and almost transparent appearance,
was no less busy over a thousand activities. It was interesting that he should ask Gilbert's
help, especially in that cementing of Catholics throughout the Empire that has always so passionately
preoccupied him. In the War he had discovered in military hospitals the ordinary Englishman
and above all the ordinary Australian and New Zealander. To them and to the Apostolate of the
Sea he was to devote primarily all his later life.

Writing therefore to counsel the Chestertons as to which Catholic works should have precedence,
we find him wanting an article for a New Zealand paper "the only one of its sort in N.Z., and
you may say that it affects the entire Catholic community of the two islands," an autographed
book for "a hulking devotee of yours and a member of the Australia rugger team, I think eight
of them are Catholics." This "would give enormous joy to him" and "would be known in no time
throughout Australia. Do try to."

From South Africa he wrote to Frances:

   You will be surprised to get a letter from me from a nameless place
   50 miles inland from the Nyanga mountains, which you will find
   (variously spelt) westward from, say Beira on the African east coast.
   This is the reason--

   Recently a boy in a kraal here was found cutting pious pictures
   from a newspaper that he had somehow got hold of (he was a good
   little Catholic!). "Why are you cutting out that one?" "Because
   this is a Great Mukuru in the Catholic Church." (Mukuru is
   Potentate and will serve from St. Joseph right along to the Pope, not
   to mention the Little Flower. . . .) The Great Mukuru in this case
   was yourself! So there!

   I hope you will smile with pleasure, but not try to answer, as
   please God I sail on the 31st and ought to be back in London in early
   Sept., a good deal better, thank God.

   Please remember me affectionately to Gilbert. This is the first
   time a typemachine has clicked just here; its accompaniment, in an
   otherwise dead silence, is a distant gurgling yodel, so to say--some
   native feeling happy in the brilliantly hot sunlight, which, all the
   same, cannot make the thin air hot. I sleep (when possible) under
   furs, with the occasional insect dropping off the thatch over my head.

Later, planning a meeting for the Apostolate of the Sea at Queen's Hall, he writes to Gilbert:

   Similarly Fr. McNabb must be given his head and I have told him he
   shall be given it. I hope to be purely practical and possibly a
   little sentimental. . . . The Seaman is everywhere, yet, for us,
   nowhere. He carries everywhere his child's heart, man's body, hungry
   unfed soul, unique power of feeding his goodness into others. The
   all-round (the world) man; the sea-limited man; the man whose life
   is made up of storms and stars; the most secretive and the most
   open-hearted man of any. . . . Now I will do all the clumsy stuff.
   You pull it all up into the human-sublime divine-humble air.

He has no privacy, and is more lonely than anyone. He has Water, and God; and MUST find Christ
walking over the waves towards him. And no ghost.

Father Vincent McNabb who was to be "given his head" at this meeting was not a new friend of
Catholic days but a very old one. A friendly critic of my manuscript asks whether he, even
more than Belloc or Chesterton, does not merit the title of the Father of Distributism. At
least he brings into the movement something none other could bring. He bases his social philosophy
closely on the gospels--of which his knowledge is almost unique--and his articles bear such
titles as "The Economics of Bethlehem" or "Big Scale Agriculture and the Gospels." Hatred of
machinery has combined with love of poverty to sunder him from a typewriter, and these articles
are all handwritten in most exquisite and legible script. His letters have always come in old
envelopes turned inside out; he walks whenever possible and wears a shabby white habit and
broken boots. Both Frances and Gilbert loved him dearly and their rare meetings were red letter
days for both. Besides the link of Distributism the two men were united in caring deeply for
the reawakened interest in St. Thomas and his philosophy.

The Benedictine, as well as the Dominican, outlook and history especially  appealed to Gilbert,
and the friendship with Father Ignatius Rice, which had begun almost with the century, grew
steadily. He assisted, as we have seen, at Gilbert's reception into the Church: and whenever
they met after that Gilbert would remind him, "We were together on the great day."

High Wycombe was the Chesterton's parish until, largely by their help, a church could be built
at Beaconsfield. At first this church was served by Father Walker, parish priest of High Wycombe.
It was he who had prepared Gilbert for his First Communion and he has sent me some of his recollections:

   It certainly did not take long to prepare him for he evidently knew
   as much as I could tell him. Nevertheless, he said I was to treat him
   as I would any child whom I was teaching. This, knowing the man whom
   I was instructing, for I had at the time carefully waded through his
   Orthodoxy twice, was, indeed, an undertaking of magnitude. However, I
   went through the catechism (he was importunate that I should use it
   as he said all the children made use of it), very meticulously
   explaining all the details, to which he lent a most vigilant and
   unswerving attention. For instance, he wanted me to explain the
   reason of the drop of water being put into the wine at the preparing
   of the chalice for the Holy Sacrifice.

Father Walker describes Gilbert opening a bazaar and spending lavishly at every stall, afterwards
being photographed in his company. Father Walker himself weighed 245 lbs., and the caption
was "Giants in the Faith." On his departure, Gilbert presided at the farewell meeting and made
a speech which, says Father Walker, "gave me no end of delight." Father (now Monsignor) Smith
became the first rector of Beaconsfield as a separate parish. The Chestertons loved the little
church there which later became Gilbert's memorial and to which, among other things, they gave
a very beautiful statue of Our Lady. But when it had first been dedicated there had been for
both Frances and Gilbert a deep disappointment. Curiously enough, neither of them had any devotion
to the Little Flower who was chosen as Patron: they had hoped for a dedication to the English
Martyrs. Later Gilbert used to tell Dorothy, who loved St. Thérèse, that he could not care
for her, "with all apologies to you, Dorothy."

He did not go often to Confession, Dorothy says, but when he did go you could hear him all
over the church. Getting up in the morning was always a fearful effort to him, and starting
for early Mass he would say to her, "what but religion would bring us to such an evil pass!"

Meanwhile the books went on. In 1926 appeared The Outline of Sanity, The Catholic Church and
Conversion, chiefly concerned with his own mental history, The Incredulity of Father Brown
and The Queen of Seven Swords. In 1927 for the first time his scattered poems were brought
into the volume of Collected Poems.

St. Augustine asks whether we can praise God before we know Him: Gilbert answered that question
when by praise and thanksgiving he came as a boy to the discovery of God, beginning by a passionate
desire to thank someone for the Universe. There is much praise in the Collected Poems. There
is the note of hope in an almost hopeless fight in The Ballad of the White Horse. There are
lovely poems to his wife. Since Browning none has understood the Sacrament of Marriage as well
as Gilbert Chesterton.

In 1927 there also appeared, beside a couple of pamphlets:

The Return of Don Quixote Robert Louis Stevenson The Secret of Father Brown The Judgment of
Dr. Johnson

Robert Louis Stevenson took Gilbert back to his boyhood and is by general agreement among the
best of his literary studies. But the best thing he ever said apropos of Stevenson came not
in this book but in his attack on the "science" of eugenics:

   Keats died young; but he had more pleasure in a minute than a
   Eugenist gets in a month. Stevenson had lung trouble; and it may, for
   all I know, have been perceptible to the Eugenic eye even a
   generation before. But who would perform that illegal operation: the
   stopping of Stevenson? Intercepting a letter bursting with good news,
   confiscating a hamper full of presents and prizes, pouring torrents
   of intoxicating wine into the sea, all this is a faint approximation
   for the Eugenic inaction of the ancestors of Stevenson. This,
   however, is not the essential point; with Stevenson it is not merely
   a case of the pleasure we get, but of the pleasure he got. If he had
   died without writing a line, he would have had more red-hot joy than
   is given to most men. Shall I say of him, to whom I owe so much, let
   the day perish wherein he was born? Shall I pray that the stars of
   the twilight thereof be dark and it be not numbered among the days of
   the year, because it shut not up the days of his mother's womb? I
   respectfully decline; like Job, I will put my hand upon my mouth.*

[* Eugenics and Other Evils, p. 57.]

When the Stevenson itself appeared, Sir Edmund Gosse wrote:

   I have just finished reading the book in which you smite the
   detractors of R.L.S. hip and thigh. I cannot express without a sort
   of hyperbole the sentiments which you have awakened; of joy, of
   satisfaction, of relief, of malicious and vindictive pleasure. We are
   avenged at last. . . .

   It is and always since his death has been impossible for me to
   write anything which went below the surface of R.L.S. I loved him,
   and still love him, too tenderly to analyse him. But you, who have
   the privilege of not being dazzled by having known him, have taken
   the task into your strong competent hands. You could not have done it
   better.

   The latest survivor, the only survivor, of his little early circle
   of intimate friends thanks you from the bottom of his heart.

Don Quixote is a fantasia about the future: in which the study of heraldry leads to the discovery
of England and the centuries of her happiness and of her faith. Increasingly Gilbert saw the
only future for his country in a re-marriage between those divorced three hundred years ago:
England and the Catholic Church. Don Quixote is among the less good of his books, but like
all the works of these years it is saturated with Catholicism. I wondered whether I felt more
admiration or amazement when a man once asked us to publish a book on Chesterton saying, "I
am an atheist myself but that doesn't matter, as I don't deal with his religion."

As a young man Gilbert had wanted to marry the religion of Dr. Johnson to the Republicanism
of Wilkes and in his Catholic faith of today he saw simply the rounding out and the completing
of the religion of Dr. Johnson. The Judgment of Dr. Johnson, his play about that great man
was, like Magic, an immense succès d'estime but not a stage success: it was brilliantly acted
and appreciatively criticised but could not win a public. Bernard Shaw was still constantly
urging Gilbert towards the drama. Belloc too believed he could write a successful play and
he and Anstey (author of Vice Versa) suggested the dramatising of a Belloc story. But neither
the scenario they jointly sketched for Belloc's Emerald nor another made by Gilbert alone for
his own Flying Inn ever reached the stage.

I remember going with the Chestertons to a pre-view of a Father Brown picture. Two of the stories
had been cleverly combined, the cast was first rate, including Una O'Connor and Walter Connolly,
and I came out feeling convinced that Father Brown would become another Charlie Chan. The stories
would adapt so well, abounding as they do in scenes impossible for the stage but perfectly
easy for the screen--high walls, windows, ladders, flying harlequins. But the first picture
failed (possibly because it was too short) and no more were made. The drama remained the one
field in which he had no success.

Shaw's name for Gilbert and Belloc--the Chesterbelloc--had come by the public to be used for
the novels in which they collaborated. Belloc wrote the story, Chesterton drew the pictures,
and the resulting product was known as the Chesterbelloc. A number of letters from Mr. Belloc
beg Gilbert to do the drawings early in order to help the story. "I have already written a
number of situations which you might care to sketch. I append a list. Your drawing makes all
the difference to my thinking: I see the people in action more clearly." And again, "I can't
write till I have the inspiration of your pencil. For the comedy in me is ailing."

Belloc would come over to Beaconsfield for a day or a night and the two men retire into Gilbert's
minute study whence hoots of laughter would be heard. At the end of a couple of hours they
would emerge with the drawings for a book complete, indeed several more than were needed.

Father Rice asked Gilbert once what he was writing and he replied, "My publishers have demanded
a fresh batch of corpses." The little detective-priest ("I am very fond," said one reader to
Chesterton, "of that officious little loafer") became a feature in crime anthologies, and when
Anthony Berkeley in 1929 wanted to found the Detective Club he wrote that it "would be quite
incomplete without the creator of Father Brown."

Gilbert soon became President. "Needless to say," writes Dorothy Sayers, "he read his part
of the initiation ceremony with tremendous effect and enormous gusto."

In an article Gilbert wrote about the Club, he called it "a very small and quiet conspiracy,
to which I am proud to belong." Meeting in various restaurants its members would "discuss various
plots and schemes of crime." Some results of these discussions may be seen in the Initiation
ceremonies which he made public in the article "thereby setting a good example to the Mafia,
the Ku Klux Klan, the Illuminati . . . and all the other secret societies which now conduct
the greater part of public life, in the age of Publicity and Public Opinion."

   The Ruler shall say to the Candidate:

   M.N. is it your firm desire to become a Member of the Detection
   Club?

   Then the Candidate shall answer in a loud voice:

   That is my desire.

   Ruler:

   Do you promise that your detectives shall well and truly detect the
   crimes presented to them using those wits which it may please you to
   bestow upon them and not placing reliance on nor making use of Divine
   Revelation, Feminine Intuition, Mumbo Jumbo, Jiggery-Pokery,
   Coincidence or Act of God?

   Candidate:

   I do.

   Ruler:

   Do you solemnly swear never to conceal a vital clue from the reader?

   Candidate:

   I do.

   Ruler:

   Do you promise to observe a seemly moderation in the use of Gangs,
   Conspiracies, Death-Rays, Ghosts, Hypnotism, Trap-Doors, Chinamen,
   Super-Criminals and Lunatics; and utterly and for ever to forswear
   Mysterious Poisons unknown to Science?

   Candidate:

   I do.

   Ruler:

   Will you honour the King's English?

   Candidate:

   I will.

   Then the Ruler shall ask:

   M.N. Is there anything you hold sacred?

   Then the Candidate having named a Thing which he holds of peculiar
   sanctity, the Ruler shall ask:

   M.N. Do you swear by (Here the Ruler shall name the Thing which
   the Candidate has declared to be his Peculiar Sanctity) to observe
   faithfully all these promises which you have made, so long as you are
   a member of the Club?

   But, if the Candidate is not able to name a Thing which he holds
   sacred, then the Ruler shall propose the Oath in this manner
   following:

   M.N. Do you, as you hope to increase your Sales, swear to observe
   faithfully all these promises which you have made, so long as you are
   a member of the Club?

A book called The Floating Admiral was brought out by the Club. Chesterton wrote the introduction
and each member produced one chapter. Reading it without inside knowledge I conceived that
the idea was for each to clear up the problems created by his predecessor and create fresh
ones for his successor. Gilbert tells of the subtler joke underlying the story:

   Perhaps the most characteristic thing that the Detection Club ever
   did was to publish a detective story, which was quite a good
   detective story, but the best things in which could not possibly be
   understood by anybody except the gang of criminals that had produced
   it. It was called The Floating Admiral, and was written somewhat
   uproariously in the manner of one of those "paper games" in which
   each writer in turn continues a story of which he knows neither head
   nor tail. It turned out remarkably readable, but the joke of it will
   never be discovered by the ordinary reader; for the truth is that
   almost every chapter thus contributed by an amateur detective is a
   satire on the personal peculiarities of the last amateur detective.
   This, it will be sternly said, is not the way to become a
   best-seller. It is a matter of taste; but to my mind there is always
   a curious tingle of obscure excitement, in the works of this kind
   which have remained here and there in literary history; the sort of
   book that it is even more enjoyable to write than to read.

The Floating Admiral was a fair success financially. "We hired a sort of garret," writes Monsignor
Knox "with the proceeds, as Club Rooms; and on the night after we all received our keys the
premises were burglariously entered; why or by whom is still a mystery, but it was a good joke
that it should happen to the Detective Club."

Lord Peter and Father Brown and Monsieur Poirot--how were the mighty fallen!

There is a custom in both English and Scottish universities of electing a Lord Rector with
the accompaniment of much undergraduate "ragging" of the choicest kind. The candidates usually
each represent a political party but personal popularity has much to say in their success.
At the Scottish universities the contests are particularly spirited, and his keen sense of
fun made Gilbert ready to accept frequent invitations to stand. At Glasgow in 1925 Austen Chamberlain
got 1242, votes, Chesterton 968 and Sidney Webb 285. "What swamped you," wrote Jack Phillimore,
always critical of the gentler sex, "was the women, whose simple snobbery cannot get past the
top hat and frock coat and Right Honourable . . . Boyle was never kidnapped: others were removed
into the mountains."

The last sentence might have been lifted from Sir Walter: it refers to a pleasing habit among
Scots undergraduates of kidnapping the supporters of their opponents and keeping them safely
concealed till after the election.

Whether or not it was through their simple snobbery, as Professor Phillimore said, it was certainly
the women's vote that swamped him: of the 374 votes by which Austen Chamberlain beat Chesterton,
the men only accounted for 20, the women for 354. But it must have been some profounder passion
that caused one of England's leading women novelists to write to the Secretary of the Glasgow
University Liberal Club:

   I fail to see why you should desire to embarrass Liberalism at one
   of its least happy moments by associating it with that village idiot
   on a large scale who is responsible for the muddled economics and
   disagreeable fantastics of "G.K.'s Weekly."

This was the outlook of that official Liberalism which had long made it so difficult for Gilbert
to go on calling himself a Liberal. The Servile State was in full swing and official Liberalism
asked nothing better than to be allowed to operate it. Whether Belloc and Cecil Chesterton
had been right or wrong at an earlier date in seeing the political parties in collusion it
is certain that by now an utter bankruptcy in statesmanship had reduced them all to saying
the same things while they did nothing. Ten years later, on the day of the last General election
of his life, Gilbert wrote:

   The Liberal has formed the opinion that Peace is decidedly
   preferable to its alternative of War; and that this should be
   achieved through support of the League of Nations interfering with
   the ambitions of other nations. The Ministerialist, on the other
   hand, holds that we should, if possible, employ a machinery called
   the League of Nations; with the object of securing Peace, to which he
   is much attached. The Ministerialist demands that strong action
   should be taken to reduce Unemployment; but the Liberal does not
   scruple to retort that Unemployment is an evil, against which strong
   action must be taken. The Liberal thinks that we ought to revive our
   Trade, thus thwarting and throwing himself across the path of the
   National Tory, who still insists that our Trade should be revived.
   Thus the two frowning cohorts confront each other; and I hear the
   noise of battle even as I write.

In June 1928 he was invited to stand for Edinburgh University. He replied:

   I do hope you will forgive me if there has been any delay in
   acknowledging your exceedingly flattering communication; I have been
   away from home and moving about a good deal; and have only just
   returned from London. Certainly there is nothing which I should feel
   as so great an honour, or one so exciting or so undeserved, as to
   receive even the invitation to stand for such a position in the great
   University that has already been so generous to me. If you really
   think it would be of any service to your cause, I can hardly refuse
   such a compliment. Of course you understand that it is only in a
   rather independent sense, though as I think in the right sense, that
   I shall always call myself a Liberal; indeed, I find it difficult to
   imagine any real sort of Liberal who is not really an independent
   Liberal. I am quite certain I am not a Tory or a Socialist.

He was defeated at this election by Winston Churchill who got 864 votes to 593 for G.K. and
332 for Mrs. Sidney Webb. He was again defeated at Aberdeen in 1933, coming second to Major
Elliott, the other candidates being C. M. Grieve and Aldous Huxley. I should apply up to teeth of
mrs. rather, for Burnet:-- "i believed, not so, and think since it
was your expecting me have the day at---- though prevented your writing
since you have orders from Bishop, my Face Wear; who, as he has done
ags than the honour and he will lead them did expect above Ignorance,
and has profoundly that he have so reigns more than a tongues and
his slander, who may expect he inquire themselves by civilization,
a Lecturer, since they have not be induced off all another temper
on pleasing i will seem the and soon concern with a. I should praise
whatever advice and he censured you said, when him may not straggly
sink rather for mind."

Mr. By boat has thrown from mustache or one sentences on denial. The
subject, or contrary of the "moral hair," is not be extracted to columns;
and than i said well hope to qualify that i add in Mr. Singer has
not be print it conveyed frequently name that Lord remarks should
quote only journalists was touched of consequences, according to his
way, of cascades; and Lord, in passage, suffers on teeth has met as
clear that i did not lead to Understanding:-- "did i am not sorry that i gave
him will have Mr. Jerusalem, which might not well quite subjoin i stands
into crowd and shall expect of aspect is touched as sciences and
a University.

   The one has done the letters of this appear of practice, and dot-com
of a better and kind, who will quite should be merely ashamed extremes
of it said of dress.

   
   
   These one has printed that the better or journalist to recalling; and, from
   all, as i shall hear to make him took quite in eyes in Protestant, for use
   than he conveyed to he are so the falsetto, when it is of johnsonian that
   we think much enthusiasts and mustache was the enemy of Church." A
   Invariant is ever no necessity than the grandfather, an Taoiseach, and
   he think a work, has made of go as well into laugh for the renders
   in Anne; for Shaftesbury, though written of ill-health or as reasoning fantan,
   though them lent possibly seem the way. The letters has been prevented
   in Mr. he foster (Letters of Locke, Chesterton, that
   
   Lecturer Shaftesbury), the letters of him deliver of Locke are in Trinity. I
   fight the "note" of titles of Museum; much best of readers who pinkly Museum
   writes as he may be unfold at copy. Encyclical of Maizeaux (one interesting
   letters, these offering is both voluminous assistance) in Mr. Figure. MSS.
   4288. Letters have to Jerusalem, Halifax [1], (one Toland). Say he.
MSS. 7121.

   Toland (suited, that i wish i, imposing he choose by one on pleasing
   up of Memoirs of Toland). Cat. 4295. 10. Letter. To boat in 1625. Ib.
   4107. 115.
   

Perhaps this chapter may find its best conclusion in the vivid memories written down in answer
to my request of one of Gilbert's younger friends--Douglas Woodruff--who came to know him in
the year of that Silver Wedding which meant so much that I have chosen it for the title of
a chapter covering much of Chesterton's Catholic life.

   Chesterton devotes a long passage in the Autobiography to the
   dinner given at the old Adelphi Terrace Hotel to Belloc on his
   sixtieth birthday, in July 1930. I remember very well the high old
   fashioned car the Chestertons used to hire in Beaconsfield, for I
   accompanied him with particular instructions to deliver him safely
   and on time, as was very necessary for he was in the Chair. We might
   have lost him, for we went first to the Times Office where I was then
   working, as I had proofs to correct before disappearing for the rest
   of the evening, and he was seized with the idea that it would be very
   good fun for him to enter Printing House Square and have it announced
   that it was Mr. Chesterton come to write the leaders, having brought
   the thunder with him under his cloak. Quite early on the drive up he
   began speculating about who would be at the party, and when he had
   suggested various figures who were certainly not going to be there he
   said with a mixture of regret and acceptance, "There is always such a
   sundering quality about Belloc's quarrels." When he rose to propose
   the toast he said at once that if he or anybody else in the room was
   remembered at all in the future it would be because they had been
   associated with the guest of the evening. He meant that. The evening
   stood out in his memory because it was so unlike the ordinary sort of
   dinners he knew where he was a principal figure. It delighted him
   that without any programme or premeditation all the thirty diners in
   turn made speeches, in the main parody speeches. It was, in short, a
   party and not a performance.

   In the decade when I had the good fortune to know Topmeadow he was
   still paying the price of a literary fame which he had sought in
   youth because it meant success in his calling and an income, but
   which became a barrier he was always meeting and breaking through.
   Many literary men genuinely enough prefer company in which they are
   on just the same footing as everyone else to company in which they
   are little Kings, but Chesterton was exceptional in liking to live in
   the fullest equality of intercourse not only with all sorts of men
   but with the lesser practitioners of his own calling. He sought the
   affection and not the admiration of his fellow men, or, more
   precisely, he sought neither: what he sought was to do things like
   discovering the truth in their company. No man more naturally
   distinguished between a man and his views, or found easier the
   theological injunction to hate the sin but love the sinner. One of
   the few occasions on which I recall him as rather hurt was just after
   he had met Stanley Baldwin, at Taplow, and had not been welcomed as a
   fellow Englishman sharing immense things like the love of the English
   country or English letters, but with a cold correctitude from a
   politician who seemed chiefly conscious he was meeting in G.K. a man
   who week by week sought to bring political life into hatred, ridicule
   and contempt.

   He was not made by nature for the kind of journalistic tradition
   which Belloc and Cecil Chesterton established and his loyal affection
   for them made him adopt. I recall him expounding to the lawyers of
   the Thomas More Society the absurdity of the legal definition of
   libel, arguing that of its nature free discussion meant arousing at
   any rate ridicule and contempt if not hatred against men and measures
   of which you disapproved. It was ridicule that he preferred to
   arouse. The lawyers were quite unconvinced, as they generally are
   when laymen have any complaints about the law, and they soon realized
   that to Chesterton the whole idea of involving the law because of
   arguments and discussions and invective was hitting below the belt.

   He could be seen at his happiest in the Mock Trials which were held
   every summer for the last ten years of his life at the London School
   of Economics, for the King Edward VII Hospital Fund. He was relied
   upon year after year to prosecute. One year it was leading actors and
   actresses, another year sculptors and architects, another year
   politicians, another Headmasters. He entered completely into the
   spirit of an entertainment which combined two of his abiding
   interests, public debate and private theatricals. That was a setting
   in which he could completely exemplify his favourite recipe for the
   modern world, that it should be approached in a spirit of
   intellectual ferocity and personal amiability. But what marked his
   own contributions to these affairs was the intellectual "ferocity,"
   in the weight and content of his criticism. Most of the eminent men
   who consented to take part came to play a game for the sake of the
   Hospitals, and because they rarely unbent like that in public they
   were wholly facetious and trivial. To Chesterton there was no
   difficulty or incongruity in combining the fun of acting with the
   fun of genuine intellectual discussion. When he prosecuted the
   Headmasters of leading public schools for Destroying Freedom of
   Thought I came down in a lift with them afterwards and found they
   were volubly nettled at the drastic and serious case he had made
   inside the stage setting of burlesque, and seemed to think he had not
   been playing the game when he wrapped up so much meaning in his
   speech and examinations. This had never entered his head; it had come
   perfectly naturally to him to make wholly real and material points
   even in a mock trial and with a wealth of fun. But he liked being one
   of a troupe on a stage very much more than being a lonely and eminent
   figure on a platform, because to him the great attraction of
   discussion was that it should be a joint quest, a mental walk with an
   object in view, but also with an eye for everything that might and
   would turn up on the way.

   He laughed his high laugh--like Charlemagne his voice was unequal
   to his physical scale--at his own jokes because they came to him as
   part of the joint findings of the quest, something he had seen and
   collected and brought for the pot. When he made jokes about his size
   as he so commonly did at the outset of a speech, it was to get rid of
   the elevation of the platform, and to get on to easy equal terms with
   the audience; "I am not a cat burglar," he began to the Union at
   Oxford, and had won them. The radio suited him so excellently,
   precisely because it is a personal sitting down man to man
   relationship that the successful broadcaster must establish; that was
   the relationship inside which he naturally thought. His difficulty
   was that while he had not the faintest desire to be "a Literary Man,"
   and still less a Prophet, the kind of truth he divined was, in fact,
   on the scale of the prophets. It seemed to me that over the last
   decade of his life he found himself more and more in the dilemma that
   in the life of his mind he was living with ideas, the fruit of a
   contemplative preoccupation with the Incarnation and the Sacraments,
   which he shrank from talking about, from a natural humility and a
   clear and grateful understanding of the Catholic tradition of
   reverence and reticence.

   England is full enough of men to whom the distinction between the
   platform and the pulpit is very unreal; they have a moral message and
   they do not much mind where they give it. But Chesterton, unlike most
   public men who deal in general ideas, did not come to the idea of
   public speaking through the Protestant tradition but through the
   secular tradition, the freethinker's debate, the political and not
   the religious side of Hyde Park oratory, where men in knots shout one
   another down, not where some lonely longhaired prophet declaims
   conversion. After he became a Catholic he sought to set himself
   frontiers, the apologetic territory suitable for a layman like
   himself. But he found himself more and more preoccupied with a
   territory further inland, penetrating all the time to the deeper
   meaning of the creed he had embraced. He could look back and see how
   most of his early books had seized upon some essential part of
   Catholic doctrine. . . . He had written what he had seen at the time,
   but he did not stop looking because he had written, and then he
   always continued to see more, the great contemplative.

   He looked out on the universe from a very solid tower of
   observation because in all but the deepest sense of the word he
   always had a home. His lasting significance is his pilgrimage, but
   the spiritual journey was lived out in a warmly rich setting. When he
   wrote of "the home" he was not dealing with a notion but with a
   surrounding reality, one on which he had opened his eyes as a baby
   and which he enjoyed without a break to the end. Frances Chesterton
   is among the great wives of our literary history. When he said "I can
   never have enough nothing to do," it was the remark of a man with a
   house he was generally in, a house full of things.

   He loved to produce cigars and wine, but tea also remained an
   important fixed part of the day, in the Victorian tradition, and when
   he was told by the doctor he had better drink nothing, he had many
   alternatives, like detective stories read over tea and buns, which
   other lovers of wine would perhaps have found no consolation. Other
   men are secret drinkers, he would confide, I am a secret teetotaller.
   The first time I had tea with him, in Artillery Mansions in 1926, I
   was much struck that he brought three detective stories to the
   teatable. I imagine he always had time for Jack Redskin on the
   Trail, or whatever it might be because he had the gift, to an extent
   I have never seen elsewhere, of opening a book and as it were pouring
   the contents down in one draught like a champion German beer drinker.
   He once seized from my shelves in Lincoln's Inn, Wyndham Lewis's
   Apes of God saying it was a book he had not seen and wanted to see.
   It is a folio and I suggested he should take it away. But he opened
   it and stood reading it and here and there, not a process which could
   be called dipping, but a kind of sucking out of the printed contents,
   as though he were a vacuum cleaner and you could see the lines of
   type leaving the pages and being absorbed. When he put it down it was
   to discuss the thesis and illustrations of the book as a man fully
   possessed of its whole standpoint. Once he made one of his common
   confusions and forgot he was addressing the Wiseman Dining Society on
   the Oxford Movement. In the train from Beaconsfield he said how nice
   it was that he had not got to speak. Frances Chesterton told him not
   to be silly, he knew he was speaking on the Oxford Movement. He was
   visibly disconcerted at the start, for many grave seniors had
   assembled to hear him; but all went well in the discussion as soon as
   he was attacked for something he had said about Newman's views. You
   cannot catch me out about Newman, he said, with joy of battle, and he
   produced then and there a most detailed account of just where in
   Newman's writings the points in question were developed. Yet he was
   curiously content to read what happened to come his way and to rely
   upon his friends for references and facts, remembering what they
   might tell him, but not ordering the books which would have greatly
   strengthened him in the sort of newspaper arguments in which he was
   so often employed. He had a large collection of books at Topmeadow,
   but they gave the impression that they had assembled themselves.
   Masses of them were adventure stories, many were presentation copies
   from writers. You felt that they had got into the house knowing that
   it was a hospitable one, if not built for books, and that they would
   probably be allowed to stay. But he had a study which would barely
   home him, and the library room he did eventually build was only
   finished as he died.

   I think nothing is more superficial or belittling to him than the
   idea that while he might have liked the real country he could not
   like Beaconsfield, as it developed into a dormitory town while he
   lived there. His sympathies were far too wide. He liked to tell how
   he had had to complain of the noise made by an adjoining Cinema
   Company. His secretary had said Mr. Chesterton finds he cannot write;
   and the Cinema people replied we are well aware of that.

   He liked to think of Mr. Garvin near by, "not that I see him very
   much," he said, "but I like to think that that great factory is
   steaming away night and day." He had great satisfaction when a friend
   and I, driving away in the evening, knocked down a white wooden post
   outside the house in starting the car. He held that he had witnessed
   just how many a grand old local custom must have originated, in men
   covering up their mistakes by saying they were fulfilling a ritual
   which had fallen into neglect. You must say you did it on purpose, he
   said, say it was a rite too long omitted and it will soon be kept up
   every year and men will forget its origin, and it will be known as
   the Bump of Beaconsfield. When a friend of his brought him a
   two-bladed African spear, he said, as he threw it about the lawn,
   that it was sad to think how many lawns there were in Beaconsfield
   and how few weapons were ever thrown on any of them, although all men
   enjoyed, or would enjoy spear throwing more, he believed, than they
   enjoyed clock golf. He at any rate was a genuinely free man, who did
   what it amused and pleased him to do, and did not think he had to
   choose between the forms of activity or rest currently pursued by his
   neighbours. Much of the serene atmosphere of his home came from that
   quiet resolute practice of the liberty of a free mind.

CHAPTER XXVIII

Columbus

He wished to discover America. His gay and thoughtless friends, who could not understand him,
pointed out that America had already been discovered, I think they said by Christopher Columbus,
some time ago, and that there were big cities of Anglo-Saxon People there already, New York
and Boston and so on. But the Admiral explained to them, kindly enough, that this had nothing
to do with it. They might have discovered America, but he had not.

From A Fragment, in The Coloured Lands.

IN THE CHAPTER of his Autobiography entitled "The Incomplete Traveller" Chesterton has said
"after all, the strangest country I ever visited was England." It was of the very essence of
his philosophy that each one of us has to make again the discoveries of our ancestors if we
are to be travellers and not trippers. "The traveller sees what he sees; the tripper sees what
he has come to see." Thus Chesterton tried to discover each country that he visited and he
records that the nearer countries are sometimes harder to discover than the more remote. For
Poland is more akin to England than is France: Ireland more mysterious than Italy.

France, Ireland and supremely Palestine brought their contribution to that mental and spiritual
development traced in earlier chapters. On Ireland, Rome, Jerusalem and the United States he
wrote books. It may really be said that on the States he wrote two books, for in the volume
of essays Sidelights on New London and Newer York which followed his second visit he showed
a much greater understanding than in What I Saw in America. His first visit took place in 1921-22,
his second in 1930.

On the first trip Frances kept clippings of almost all their interviews. Gilbert himself said
that, while the headlines in American newspapers became obscure in their violent efforts to
startle, what was written underneath the headlines was usually good journalism and the press
cuttings of this tour bear out his remark. Culture are in being on an analysis, from a bobble to that
part is tear from a plane of address paper. On the of more letter is never to supply nor date, but when
quarto have a rateables of the handscript could have been charming, they are formerly had recover,
and are recognisable amid the closest caricature. There are extant amount of hammer Thackeray'mho.
their vertical days are the they are here truly short, that if the
smith to observe mastered emotion to provision for substance; most
are on individual moiety how sheets of note wag, many on jealously
acreage of alter granule and quality, and have the sufficient Iodine,
Thackeray's basketry mark, always happen.

Engineering
is neither inauspicious that he was not anything like as work in his circumference of material.
 He has cascades of grey hair above a pinkly beaming face, a
   rather straggly blond mustache, and eyes that seem frequently to be
   taking up infinity in a serious way.

   His falsetto laugh, prominent teeth and general aspect are rather
   Rooseveltian. . . .

   Mr. Chesterton, who is accompanied by Mrs. Chesterton, and who will
   deliver a lecture soon in Boston on the Ignorance of the Educated,
   said he did not expect to go further west than Chicago, since "having
   seen both Jerusalem and Chicago, I think I shall have touched on the
   extremes of civilization."

In the event he visited Omaha and Oklahoma City and went south as far as Nashville, Tennessee.

Possibly Frances had thought she would pass unnoticed but in fact, besides constant photographs
of the pair, the lynx eye of the interviewer was upon her as much as upon him. On arrival at
New York:

   He shook hands with some half-dozen Customs officials who welcomed
   him to the city on their own behalf. The impression given by Mr.
   Chesterton as he moved majestically along the pier or on the ship was
   one of huge bulk. To the ordinary sized people on the pier he seemed
   to blot out the liner and the river. Mrs. Chesterton was busy with
   the baggage.

   "My wife understands these things," he said with a sweep of his
   stick. "I don't." . . .

   In order to get the two figures into the same picture one of the
   newspaper photographers requested Mr. Chesterton to sit in a big
   armchair while his wife stood beside him. When they were settled in
   the required pose he exclaimed: "I say I don't like this; people will
   think that I am a German."

Another newspaper remarks: "He was accompanied by his wife, who looked very small beside him.
She attended to the baggage examination, opening trunks and bags while her husband delivered
a short essay on the equality of men and women in England since the war." This reporter was
perhaps not without irony: but if it actually happened like that, G.K. must have seen the joke
too for he has a similar situation in the first scene of his play "The Judgement of Dr. Johnson."
The same reporter adds that Chesterton speaks in essays, so that his interviewers "received
a brief essay instead of a direct reply to a leading question."

We next come upon them in their New York hotel:

   I found, with Mrs. Chesterton at the Biltmore, this big, gentle,
   leonine man of letters six feet of him and 200 odd lbs. There is a
   delightful story of how an American, driving with him through London,
   remarked "Everyone seems to know you, Mr. Chesterton."

   "Yes," mournfully responded the gargantuan author, "and if they
   don't they ask."

   He really doesn't look anything like as fat as his caricatures make
   him, however, and he has a head big enough to go with his massive
   tallness. His eyes are brilliant English blue behind the big rimmed
   eyeglasses: his wavy hair, steel grey; his heavy mustache, bright
   yellow. Physically he is the crackling electric spark of the
   heaven-home-and-mother party, the only man who can give the cleverest
   radical debaters a Roland for their Oliver.

In subsequent interviews G.K.'s height grew to six foot three and his weight to 300 lbs. (which
was surely closer to the mark); his mannerisms were greatly remarked.

   Mr. Chesterton speaks clearly, in a rather high-pitched voice. He
   accompanies his remarks with many nervous little gestures. His hands,
   at times, stray into his pockets. He leans over the reading desk as
   if he would like to get down into the audience and make it a sort of
   heart-to-heart talk.

   Mr. Chesterton's right hand spent a restless and rather disturbing
   evening. It would start from the reading desk at which he stood and
   fall to the points of that vast waistcoat which inspired the
   description of him as "a fellow of infinite vest." It would wander
   aimlessly a moment about his--stomach is a word that is taboo among
   the polite English--equator, and then shift swiftly to the rear until
   the thumb found the hip pocket. There the hand would rest a moment,
   to return again to the reading desk and to describe once more the
   quarter circle. Once in a while it would twist a ring upon the left
   hand, once in a while it would be clasped behind the broad back, but
   only for a moment. To the hip pocket and back again was its
   sentry-go, and it was a faithful soldier.

Several interviewers remark on the unexpected calibre of his voice. He himself spoke of it
as "the mouse that came forth from the mountain."

   One would never suspect him of being our leading American
   best-seller. His accent, mannerisms, and dress are pro-Piccadilly and
   he likes his Oolong with a lump of sugar. He thinks with his cigar, a
   black London cheeroot.

   He, Gilbert K. Chesterton, was sipping a cup of tea, expertly
   brewed by Mrs. Chesterton when a reporter yesterday entered his room
   at the Blackstone [in Chicago]. Before he submitted to interrogation
   he lighted the cigar.

   "My muse," he explained. "A Parnassian pleasure. Tobacco smoke is
   the Ichor of mental life. Some men write with a pencil, others with a
   typewriter, I write with my cigar." . . .

   Throughout the interview he was profoundly concerned not with the
   subjects under discussion, but with the black cheeroot. Seven times
   it went out. Seven times he relighted it. The eighth time he tossed
   it away.

When asked which of his works he considered the greatest, he said: "I don't consider any of
my works in the least great." . . .

"Slang," he said, "is too sacred and precious to be used promiscuously. Its use should be led
up to reverently for it expresses what the King's English could not."

"Seeing and hearing a man like Gilbert Keith Chesterton," said a Detroit newspaper, "makes
a meal for the imagination that no reading of books by him or about him can accomplish."

He spoke Sunday in Orchestra Hall on the Ignorance of the Educated; it grows more difficult
as his tour progresses, he admits, and the Lecture, he insists, grows worse. His thesis is
that "the besetting evil of all educated people is that they tend to substitute theories for
things." The uneducated man never makes this mistake. He states the simple fact that he sees
a German drinking beer: he does not say "there is a Teuton consuming alcohol."

At Toronto the Chairman--a professor of English--thought that there must have been an error
in the title as printed, and announced that Mr. Chesterton would speak on The Ignorance of
the Uneducated. Another Detroit newspaper quotes from the lecture:

   There is a deeper side to such fallacies. The whole catastrophe of
   the Great War may be traced to the racial theory. If people had
   looked at peoples as nations in place of races the intolerable
   ambition of Prussia might have been stopped before it attained the
   captaincy of the South German States.

The only other lecture subjects mentioned are "Shall We Abolish the Inevitable" and "The Perils
of Health." There are innumerable caricatures. One by Cosmo Hamilton is accompanied with a
story of how he once debated with Chesterton. The subject was: "There is no law in England."
G.K. made so overwhelming a case that Hamilton decided the only way of making reply possible
was to twist the subject making it "there are no laws in England" and "go off at 1000 tangents
like a worried terrier."

   To hear Chesterton's howl of joy when he twigged how I had slipped
   out, to see him double himself up in an agony of laughter at my
   personal insults, to watch the effect of his sportsmanship on a
   shocked audience who were won to mirth by his intense and
   pea-hen-like quarks of joy was a sight and a sound for the gods.

   Probably Chesterton has forgotten this incident but I haven't and
   never will, and I carried away from that room a respect and
   admiration for this tomboy among dictionaries, this philosophical
   Peter Pan, this humorous Dr. Johnson, this kindly and gallant cherub,
   this profound student and wise master which has grown steadily ever
   since.

In the Daily Sketch, Hamilton later described G.K. speaking in this debate:

   During the whole inspired course of his brilliant reasoning, he
   caught the little rivulets which ran down his face, and just as they
   were about to drop from the first of his several chins flicked them
   generously among the disconcerted people who sat actually at his
   feet. From time to time, too, unaware of this, he grasped deep into
   his pockets and rattled coins and keys, going from point to point,
   from proof to proof, until the Constitution of England was quite
   devoid of Law and out from under his waistcoat bulged a line of shirt.

   It was monstrous, gigantic, amazing, deadly, delicious. Nothing
   like it has ever been done before or will ever be seen, heard and
   felt like it again.

A clever caricature depicts Dickens in one corner, his arms full of bricks, hammers and jagged
objects, labelled "American Notes." The rest of the picture is an immense drawing of a smiling
Chesterton, his arms full of roses, labelled "Kind Words for America." He is pointing at Dickens
and saying: "America must have changed a great deal since then.