Our guide appeared to take our not going to Pritie greatly to heart; but we made the best of
our way to some clear spots on the side of the high land seen from the boat. We met a few natives,
who all agreed there were plenty of deer close by, which we believed, for we saw numbers of
very recent tracks. But the jungle was impenetrable; so, after rambling for an hour or two,
at the expense of nearly tearing the clothes off our backs, and emulating the folly of the
wise man of Thessaly, we again determined to make for Pritie, or at least to try and find it.
The tide too now served, and after a pull of some hours, carefully examining every creek and
bight, we spied at length two canoes hauled up among a patch of mangroves. Landing, we soon
found some houses, and a person to show us the road to Pritie; for we had still a walk of three
miles across a well watered flat piece of country. We were highly pleased with this, to us,
novel sight; and our enjoyment was heightened by beholding the tricks and grimaces of some
impudent monkeys perched on the tops of the lofty trees, out of shot range, and too nimble
to be hit with a ball.

VALE OF PRITIE.

We at last reached our destination, on the eastern side of a beautiful stream. Immediately
to the northward some lofty peaks reared their rugged summits in an amphitheatre round the
rich and picturesque vale of Pritie, which lay at the feet of their varied slopes, one mass
of tropical vegetation. Trees of enormous height shot up by the waterside, and between them,
as we approached, the little sharp-roofed houses of the village of Pritie could be seen scattered
here and there amidst their gardens.

Our old guide, who had by this time recovered his serenity of mind, led us direct to the Commandant,
a mild and very civil old Javanese, to whom orders had been sent by the Resident at Coepang
to show us every attention. His room was adorned by a magnificent pair of antlers which, we
were rejoiced to hear, had been lately taken from a deer shot within a hundred yards of the
house. After a repast of young coconuts, and gula, a kind of honey; it was arranged that a
party should be collected to go with us on the morrow to shoot deer and pigs.

Our host now took us to see the village, and then conducted us to the house we were to occupy
during our sojourn at Pritie, which was a large homely-built edifice erected for the Resident's
use when he visits this neighbourhood. We spent the dusk of the evening in pigeon-shooting,
but did not meet with much success; for the birds perched for the most part on the summits
of trees so lofty that they were quite out of shot-range. Many of these giants of the forest
must have attained the height of at least two hundred feet. They formed a grand element in
the landscape, especially when their huge trunks rose by the side of the limpid water of the
stream that intersects the vale of Pritie. Between their topmost boughs, to the north, the
amphitheatre of hills which I have mentioned lifted up their indistinct forms, round which
the shades of night were gathering, towards the heavens, that soon began to glisten with a
multitude of faint stars.

EVENING REPAST.

