"I reckon you all may think this is a pretty big table for two people, an' one not growed up,
but you see I didn't know nothin' about the size of the family, an' Mike he didn't know nothin'
either. I'm Phoebe, Mike's wife, an' I ain't got nothin' in the world to do with this house,
for mostly I go out to service in the town, but I'm here now; and of course we didn't want
you all to come an' find nothin' to eat, an' no beds made, an' as you didn't write no orders,
sir, we had just to do the best we could accordin' to our own lights. Back to a dislocation may not
happen. No way. That would make his position in the school impossible. Then he would have to remove
them quickly and it would the question with the horrible institutions Presses and the like
on the series. He had a thousand times less freedom to ramble, to dream and to draw. The Penne
must be made, as the trenches too. Pleasant is neither. I can tell you, Richard, - some of the
urchin has burning after school class back craved when he's wanted not words. "

Rolfers turned to the boy and his dark deep-set eyes flashed over him.

"Before I speak with the man over you, I must first have a clear idea
what you're actually on your Future want?

Lawyer or an artist - what's to be "?

"That's not a question now," muttered Richard.

"This is a very serious question, my son," replied the professor sharp.

"People without a strong Will, can not use the art. A not for all. This school thing is on your
Talent simply a matter of will.

An exercise to greater things!

So - I can at the Direx happen for you - or can not I? "

Richard had turned bright red and looked for the first time in a long time the professor clearly
and in the face.

"You can do it!"

"All right - a shock!"

Rolfers held out his left hand and Richard got into his rights. The man pressed it finds.
Richard was quite stunned by this performance out into the yard.
The professor was still a great person - who would have acted by the
fathers of his friends in Berlin? None - Not one. Cursing and whining
and sanctions and threats would have hailed it - yes. - He had yet
to show what he had done in recent weeks. There were a few very fine
things among them. Which would give him pleasure.

Now feel rushed
with violence of your wild mountain stream by the boy's heart. He
- He - he filled his thoughts, dreams, fantasies. Friend - friend
- he said sometimes quietly to himself. Professor - Professorchen
cried, his clear boyish voice around the house as soon as he came
home from school.

"Oh, yes, indeed, sir," said Miriam, who had already taken a fancy to the doctor's genial face.
"Phoebe thought we were a large family, and you can take the seat of one of the grown-up sons,
or the daughter's chair, or the place that was intended for either the little boy or little
girl, or perhaps you would like the governess' seat."

At this Phoebe turned her face to the wall and giggled.

"A fine imagination," said the doctor, "and what is better, a bountiful meal. Please consider
me, for the present, the smallest boy, who might naturally be supposed to have the biggest
appetite."

"It would have been funnier," said Miriam, gravely, "if you had been the governess." No - he was able to forgive himself
never. This was all between them. Only that hurt so he had no idea. That he spent the whole
day, the breast feels sore and burned, he had to bear. Yes - he enjoyed the pain level is
still deeper into it. He had insulted the Holy Father of the country - fighting his country in
it! What - he had him cold, accused of lack of enthusiasm - but while he, Richard, just sang
and cheered and intoxicated in beautiful dreams, the other had sacrificed himself - had suffered
- because the professor had not become a cripple - that the country was free - so that he create,
Richard Lebus, and is expected to be a powerful man and artist - but as he had in mind. Work, work
great - it was now all that remained to him. Without dependent Rolfers' Council, without his help, on
its own. But will a guy who could be seen! Before the professor but
one must have respect.

Sun took the boy there to be that Rolf can no longer care for him,
took it as a necessity, he had made for itself - he had to bear the
consequences.

It was still shy of the road. And had the whole day and half the night unless it the healthy
boy sleep overpowered, serious and haunting fantasy conversations with him could ponder for hours
over a word that had thrown the world's mature man volatile, with the meaning and importance of the
boy now abquälte . - Whether this time is great or just bloody will
prove only the future.

The size of a term does not depend on wars and victories, for even
by the heady atmosphere of the extension campaign.

And heroes are mentioned only those who feel themselves as bearers of a God idea, - not those
who for their flesh and blood, fought for the safety of their own and their families' existence.
Admirable out, yes - but far from heroes. That seemed a reduction in German Richard Krieger, for his
heart was burning when he saw one.

And he often had to resent the professor that he had taken him to Berlin on in this desert, where
he could feel the wild smell and the noise and roar of time listening only to the distance, while
he throw in Berlin, in full, from he was allowed to take leave with, could rejoice in the victory celebrations
into it. - - Why in the Tutmesbüste of King Amenhotep and which should put his little daughters,
the Egyptian princess, a larger value than ever in all brilliant
deeds, which happened on the battlefields of this year? - The word
had Richard, when he heard it, violently angry, even bitter.

He felt it a contradiction, again a downright hostility between his character and Rolfes' beings. The man
- the world's artists, for which there were no borders, no national differences - only differences
in strength and weakness, in beautiful and ugly, for the mean of this war no upward movement, but
a collapse, a collapse of his world of good Europeanism. "Good Europeans" - even as a term hated
the boy. Perhaps he should also have a good Egyptians - no, he thanked him. This Egyptian Art, the heck
out of the professor so much that he had inspected often enough in the Old Museum - curious how
he was curious about everything foreign.

If she had not the least - he was quite blankly before the Titans - the strange gods smile fixed only
infuriated him. What they had so smile, far beyond the world and all its oppressive wonderful beauty!
He wanted to smash it, cut up, all together, barbaric in his young destructiveness because it offended their
rest, their grandeur, their strict style to rage.
 Those are our stars, every
one of them."

Ralph laughed, as he led her into the house.

"Yes, indeed," she insisted, "we own all the way down, and all the way up."

"Now then," said Miriam, when they had closed the door behind them, "how shall we explore the
house? Shall we each take a lamp, or will candles be better?"

"Little girl!" exclaimed her brother, "I had no idea that you were such a bunch of watch springs.
It is nearly nine o'clock, and after the day's work that you have done, it is time you were
in bed. House exploring can be done to-morrow."

"Yes, indeed, Miss," said Phoebe, who stood by, anxious to shut up the house and retire to
her own domicile, "and I will go up into your room with you and show you about things."

Half an hour after this, Miriam came out of her bedroom, holding a bit of lighted candle in
her hand. She was dressed, with the exception of her shoes. Softly she advanced to the foot
of the stairs which led to the floor above.

"They are partly my stairs," she said to herself, as she paused for a moment at the bottom
of the step. "Ralph told me that he considered the place as much mine as his, and I have a
right to go up. I cannot go to sleep without seeing what is up here. I never imagined such
a third floor as this one."

In less than a minute, Miriam was slowly creeping along the next floor of the house, which
was indeed an odd one. For it was nothing more than a gallery, broader at the ends than the
sides, with a railed open space, through which one could look down to the floor below. If a trust between old and young, between the death and becoming, not impossible for all?
Because a grudge he was still in the heart since that terrible night at the castle lawn in front
of the foal. He felt since the enmity of the one being pushed back, the youth will leave the field. He had
wanted to beat the boy, now had become the winner of the him. He forgave him so quickly. Let it
gently come only in itself. Reluctantly gave him the happiness of the shy courtship. Sometimes
he was flirty, as compared to women - was a mile long warm, good, open, then cool again moved back
to full days. Its deadly fight went back and forth, long time. The lilac bloomed even in blue
waves on the long crease behind the garden and its perfumes beat
with sweet vapors into the porch and in the rooms of the Holstein
country house.

The spring had been prudent and made up for with a single blow, which he had neglected for weeks.
Even between the wet, crumbling walls of the old draw well sprouted fine green Farnkräutlein and
clothed his dark depths with delicate beauty. In the bushes filled with sounds of it a hundred different
bird calls. Light green, flat hands, spread the tulip tree out of its wide branches and gnarled
old apple trees were just magnificent structure of red rose flower garlands durchsummt, bees and
bumblebees. From the whole grass fire burned the candles their tulips and blue forget-me-poured
foam over it. Over the moor grasses waved silver and red flowering sorrel. The foliage of the
birches was already getting dark, but bright green of the beech forest stand in the distance.
And white, round summer clouds floated through the sky, a mild, breezy wind swayed and shimmered
with all the floating, moving branches and leaves, and blew through the flowering grass waves
that her on the chill AGAINST in a thousand subtle colors and soft lines, waved and waved . * * *
* * Richard reeling with happiness this spring rush that he, the big city child, bound between
dusty classrooms and the sunless Hofwohnung, have never met in the
fullness of its splendor had.

       

Each morning drive through the gray-green silk of sprouting oat fields,
through the golden sunlight of rape widths, past the emerald of the
rich marshes, of which the black and white spotted cows stood out
as effective in the Frame of the flowering bushes in the sandy ravines
- where it chirped and whistled from the life of the nesting bird
families - each way to school with brave brown Henry, which was been
found unfit for military service, his real experience.

Sometimes he let the reins hang and the good animal trotted on the usual way - but he looked into the
blue sky and tracked the flight of the lark vertebrae, the smooth glide that gently melt the white
summer clouds. In the night he ran out into the marsh, saw the mist blowing and the mild white the
moon reflects that began to shine the Geschwebe opal - heard sunk on the Liebesgequake and din of the frogs
- on all the sliding, slipping, slipping in the small wildlife that is causing so strangely
awake through the night - saw the magical toad, mighty and dreadful leap contracts with their warts
on his back on the road like an enchanted Hexenweib saw squat oddly stunted figures of the
old alder in the dark water courses and their to take something incomprehensible - branches as
wide longing arms in the air. The floor swayed and shook under his feet, which sank here - fell
- he had to go rushing to safe ground - and knew a thousand times before orbenes, transformed, and new standing
life there in the brown depth that the sucking going down, which also ventured incautiously on them.


"Now, Miss Panney," said Phoebe, speaking very earnestly, but in a low voice, "I can't say
that I can really give you the true head and tail of it, for it's mighty hard to find out what
did happen to that young gal. All I know is that she didn't come down to breakfast, and that
Mr. Haverley went up to her room hisself, and he knocked and he knocked, and then he pushed
the door open and went in, and, bless my soul, Miss Panney, she wasn't there. Then he hollered,
and me and him, we sarched and sarched the house. He went up into the garret by hisself, for
you may be sure I wouldn't go there, but he was just wild, and didn't care where he went, and
there he found her dead asleep on the floor, and a livin' skeleton a sittin' watchin' her."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Miss Panney; "he never told you that."

"That's the pint of what I got out of him, and you know, Miss Panney, that that garret's hanted." 

Now, she would compare her hands to those of the professor frequently, in secret. It greatly pleased
her to find similarities in the shape of their nails, fingers and thumbs. Tears welled within
her as she though that she could never hold the rights, the creative skill, the artistic hands
of her much loved master, to be allowed to draw. And for the first time she felt the bitterness
of the irretrievable, death and destruction. She felt that this man, who created beauty, would never
create again. Slowly a new feeling grew in her - the desire for knowledge: to become his heir...
his student - oh, yes - I am a good nurse, and know all about sicknesses;"
and she explained why she had come and the doctor had not.

When Miriam turned her head and saw the black eyes of Miss Panney gazing down upon her, she
pushed herself back in the bed, and exclaimed,--

"Are you his wife?" A volatile, very small token of affection, confidence, let her
live for days in happy silence that few would know. She sought her
own rare sacrifice.

Franz Rolfers probably saw the change and would have mixed feelings
about it. Keep yourself covered up, even if you are a little warm, and I will come back
presently with the nicest kind of a cup of tea."

