Why then, proceeded he, the case was this: Pamela, I find, when she was in the time of her
confinement, (that is, added he, when she was taken prisoner, in order to make me one; for
that is the upshot of the matter,) in the journal she kept, which was intended for nobody's
perusal but her parents, tells them, that she was importuned, one Sunday, by Mrs. Jewkes, to
sing a psalm; but her spirits not permitting, she declined it: But after Mrs. Jewkes was gone
down, she says, she recollected, that the cxxxviith psalm was applicable to her own case; Mrs.
Jewkes having often, on other days, in vain, besought her to sing a song: That thereupon she
turned it more to her own supposed case; and believing Mrs. Jewkes had a design against her
honour, and looking upon her as her gaoler, she thus gives her version of this psalm. But pray,
Mr. Williams, do you read one verse of the common translation, and I will read one of Pamela's.
Then Mr. Williams, pulling out his little pocket Common-Prayer-Book, read the first two stanzas:

                 I.

    When we did sit in Babylon,
      The rivers round about;
    Then in remembrance of Sion,
      The tears for grief burst out.

                II.

    We hang'd our harps and instruments
      The willow trees upon:
    For in that place, men, for that use,
      Had planted many a one.

The ladies said, It was very pretty; and Miss Darnford, That somebody else had more need to
be concerned than the versifier.

I knew, said my master, I should get no credit by shewing this. But let us read on, Mr. Williams.
So Mr. Williams read:

               III.

    Then they, to whom we pris'ners were,
      Said to us, tauntingly,
    Now let us hear your Hebrew songs,
      And pleasant melody.

Now this, said my master, is very near; and read:

               III.

Mighty sweet, said Mr. Williams. But let us see how the next verse is turned. It is this:

                IV.

    Alas! said we; who can once frame
      His heavy heart to sing
    The praises of our living God,
      Thus under a strange king?

Very pretty, said Mr. Williams. Lady Jones said, O, dear madam! could you wish that we should
be deprived of this new instance of your genius and accomplishments?

O! said my dear father, you will make my good child proud. No, said my master very generously,
Pamela can't be proud. For no one is proud to hear themselves praised, but those who are not
used to it.--But proceed, Mr. Williams. He read:

                 V.

    But yet, if I Jerusalem
      Out of my heart let slide;
    Then let my fingers quite forget
      The warbling harp to guide.

Mr. Williams read:

                VI.

    And let my tongue, within my mouth,
      Be ty'd for ever fast,
    If I rejoice, before I see
      Thy full deliv'rance past.

Now, good sir, said I, oblige me; don't read any further: pray don't! O pray, madam, said Mr.
Williams, let me beg to have the rest read; for I long to know whom you make the Sons of Edom,
and how you turn the Psalmist's execrations against the insulting Babylonians.

Well, Mr. Williams, replied I, you should not have said so. O, said my master, that is one
of the best things of all. Poor Mrs. Jewkes stands for Edom's Sons; and we must not lose this,
because I think it one of my Pamela's excellencies, that, though thus oppressed, she prays
for no harm upon the oppressor. Read, Mr. Williams, the next stanza. So he read:

               VII.

    Therefore, O Lord! remember now
      The cursed noise and cry,
    That Edom's sons against us made,
      When they ras'd our city.

              VIII.

    Remember, Lord, their cruel words,
      When, with a mighty sound,
    They cried, Down, yea down with it,
      Unto the very ground!

Well, said my master, here seems, in what I am going to read, a little bit of a curse indeed,
but I think it makes no ill figure in the comparison.

And now, said he, for Edom's Sons. Though a little severe in the imputation.

Sure, sir, said I, this might have been spared! But the ladies and Mr. Williams said, No, by
no means! And I see the poor wicked woman has no favourers among them.

Now, said my master, read the Psalmist's heavy curses: and Mr. Williams read:

                IX.

    Ev'n so shalt thou, O Babylon!
      At length to dust be brought:
    And happy shall that man be call'd,
      That our revenge hath wrought.

                 X.

    Yea, blessed shall the man be call'd
      That takes thy little ones,
    And dasheth them in pieces small
      Against the very stones. Sir, said he,
whoever it was intended for then, it can be nobody but your good self
now.

I could hardly hold up my head for the praises the kind ladies were pleased to heap upon me.
I am sure, by this, they are very partial in my favour; all because my master is so good to
me, and loves to hear me praised; for I see no such excellence in these lines, as they would
make me believe, besides what is borrowed from the Psalmist.

We all, as before, and the cook-maid too, attended the prayers of the church in the afternoon;
and my dear father concluded with the following stanzas of the cxlvth psalm; suitably magnifying
the holy name of God for all mercies; but did not observe, altogether, the method in which
they stand; which was the less necessary, he thought, as he gave out the lines.

    The Lord is just in all his ways:
      His works are holy all:
    And he is near all those that do
      In truth upon him call.

    He the desires of all them
      That fear him, will fulfil;
    And he will hear them when they cry,
      And save them all he will.

    The eyes of all do wait on thee;
      Thou dost them all relieve:
    And thou to each sufficient food,
      In season due, dost give.

    Thou openest thy plenteous hand,
      And bounteously dost fill
    All things whatever, that do live,
      With gifts of thy good will.

    My thankful mouth shall gladly speak
      The praises of the Lord:
    All flesh, to praise his holy name,
      For ever shall accord.

We walked in the garden till tea was ready; and as he went by the back-door, my master said
to me, Of all the flowers in the garden, the sun-flower is the fairest!--O, sir, said I, let
that be now forgot! Mr. Williams heard him say so, and seemed a little out of countenance:
Whereupon my master said, I mean not to make you serious, Mr. Williams; but we see how strangely
things are brought about. I see other scenes hereabouts, that, in my Pamela's dangers, give
me more cause of concern, than any thing you ever did should give you. Sir, said he, you are
very generous.

My master and Mr. Williams afterwards walked together for a quarter of an hour; and talked
about general things, and some scholastic subjects; and joined us, very well pleased with one
another's conversation.

Lady Jones said, putting herself on one side of me, as my master was on the other, But pray,
sir, when is the happy time to be? We want it over, that we may have you with us as long afterwards
as you can. Said my master, I would have it to-morrow, or next day at farthest, if Pamela will:
for I have sent for a license, and the messenger will be here to-night, or early in the morning,
I hope. But, added he, pray, Pamela, do not take beyond Thursday. She was pleased to say, Sure
it will not be delayed by you, madam, more than needs!--Well, said he, now you are on my side,
I will leave you with her to settle it: and, I hope, she will not let little bashful niceties
be important with her; and so he joined the two misses.

Lady Jones told me, I was to blame, she would take upon her to say, if I delayed it a moment;
because she understood Lady Davers was very uneasy at the prospect, that it would be so; and
if any thing should happen, it would be a sad thing!--Madam, said I, when he was pleased to
mention it to me first, he said it should be in fourteen days; and afterwards, asked me if
I would have it in the first or the second seven? I answered--for how could I do otherwise?--In
the second. He desired it might not be the last day of the second seven. Now, madam, said I,
as he was then pleased to speak his mind, no doubt, I would not, for any thing, seem too forward.

Well, but, said she, as he now urges you in so genteel and gentlemanly a manner for a shorter
day, I think, if I was in your place, I would agree to it. She saw me hesitate and blush, and
said, Well, you know best; but I say only what I would do. I said, I would consider of it;
and if I saw he was very earnest, to be sure I should think I ought to oblige him.

Misses Darnford were begging to be at the wedding, and to have a ball: and they said, Pray,
Mrs. Andrews, second our requests, and we shall be greatly obliged to you. Indeed, ladies,
said I, I cannot promise that, if I might.--Why so? said they.--Because, answered I--I know
not what! But I think one may, with pleasure, celebrate an anniversary of one's nuptials; but
the day itself--Indeed, ladies, I think it is too solemn a business, for the parties of our
sex to be very gay upon: it is a quite serious and awful affair: and I am sure, in your own
cases, you would be of my mind. Why, then, said Miss Darnford, the more need one has to be
as light-hearted and merry as one can.

I told you, said my master, what sort of an answer you'd have from Pamela. The younger miss
said, She never heard of such grave folks in her life, on such an occasion: Why, sir, said
she, I hope you'll sing psalms all day, and miss will fast and pray! Such sackcloth and ashes
doings, for a wedding, did I never hear of!--She spoke a little spitefully, I thought; and
I returned no answer. I shall have enough to do, I reckon, in a while, if I am to answer every
one that will envy me!

We went in to tea; and all that the ladies could prevail upon my master for, was a dancing
match before he left this county: But Miss Darnford said, It should then be at their house;
for, truly, if she might not be at the wedding, she would be affronted, and come no more hither,
till we had been there.

When they were gone, my master would have had my father stay till the affair was over; but
he begged he might set out as soon as it was light in the morning; for, he said, my mother
would be doubly uneasy at his stay; and he burned with impatience to let her know all the happy
things that had befallen her daughter. When my master found him so desirous to go, he called
Mr. Thomas, and ordered him to get a particular bay horse ready betimes in the morning, for
my father, and a portmanteau, to put his things in; and to attend him a day's journey: And
if, said he, Mr. Andrews chooses it, see him safe to his own home: And, added he, since that
horse will serve you, Mr. Andrews, to ride backwards and forwards, to see us, when we go into
Bedfordshire, I make you a present of it, with the accoutrements. And, seeing my father going
to speak, he added, I won't be said nay. O how good was this!

He also said a great many kind things at supper-time, and gave him all the papers he had of
mine; but desired, when he and my mother had read them, that he would return them to him again.
And then he said, So affectionate a father and daughter may, perhaps, be glad to be alone together;
therefore remember me to your good wife, and tell her, it will not be long, I hope, before
I see you together; on a visit to your daughter, at my other house: and so I wish you good
night, and a good journey, if you go before I see you. And then he shook hands, and left my
dear father almost unable to speak, through the sense of his favours and goodness.

You may believe, my dear mother, how loath I was to part with my good father; and he was also
unwilling to part with me; but he was so impatient to see you, and tell you the blessed tidings,
with which his heart overflowed, that I could hardly wish to detain him.

Mrs. Jewkes brought two bottles of cherry-brandy, and two of cinnamon-water, and some cake;
and they were put up in the portmanteau, with my father's newly presented clothes; for he said,
He would not, for any thing, be seen in them in his neighbourhood, till I was actually known,
by every body, to be married; nor would he lay out any part of the twenty guineas till then
neither, for fear of reflections; and then he would consult me as to what he would buy. Well,
said I, as you please, my dear father; and I hope now we shall often have the pleasure of hearing
from one another, without needing any art or contrivances.

He said, He would go to bed betimes, that he might be up as soon as it was light; and so he
took leave of me, and said, He would not love me, if I got up in the morning to see him go;
which would but make us both loath to part, and grieve us both all day.

Mr. Thomas brought him a pair of boots, and told him, He would call him up at peep of day,
and put up every thing over night; and so I received his blessing, and his prayers, and his
kind promises of procuring the same from you, my dear mother; and went up to my closet with
a heavy heart, and yet a half-pleased one, if I may so say; for that, as he must go, he was
going to the best of wives, and with the best of tidings. But I begged he would not work so
hard as he had done; for I was sure my master would not have given him twenty guineas for clothes,
if he had not designed to do something else for him; and that he should be the less concerned
at receiving benefits, from my good master, because he, who had so many persons to employ in
his large possessions, could make him serviceable, to a degree equivalent, without hurting
any body else.

He promised me fair; and, pray, dear mother, see he performs. I hope my master will not see
this: for I will not send it you, at present, till I can send you the best of news; and the
rather, as my dear father can supply the greatest part of what I have written, since the papers
he carries you, by his own observation. So good night, my dear mother: And God send my father
a safe journey, and a happy meeting to you both!

Monday.

Mr. Colbrand being returned, my master came up to me to my closet, and brought me the license.
O how my heart fluttered at the sight of it! Now, Pamela, said he, tell me, if you can oblige
me with the day. Your word is all that's wanting. I made bold to kiss his dear hand; and, though
unable to look up, said--I know not what to say, sir, to all your goodness: I would not, for
any consideration, that you should believe me capable of receiving negligently an honour, that
all the duty of a long life, were it to be lent me, will not be sufficient to enable me to
be grateful for. I ought to resign myself, in every thing I may or can, implicitly to your
will. But--But what? said he, with a kind impatience.--Why, sir, said I, when from last Thursday
you mentioned four days, I had reason to think that term your choice; and my heart is so wholly
yours, that I am afraid of nothing, but that I may be forwarder than you wish. Impossible,
my dear creature! said he, and folded me in his arms: Impossible! If this be all, it shall
be set about this moment, and this happy day shall make you mine!--I'll send away instantly,
said the dear gentleman; and was going.

I said, No, pray, sir, pray, sir, hear me!--Indeed it cannot be to-day!--Cannot! said he.--No,
indeed, sir! said I--And was ready to sink to see his generous impatience. Why flattered you
then my fond heart, replied he, with the hope that it might?--Sir, said I, I will tell you
what I had thought, if you'll vouchsafe me your attention. Do then, said he.

I have, sir, proceeded I, a great desire, that, whenever the day is, it may be on a Thursday:
On a Thursday my dear father and mother were married; and, though poor, they are a very happy
pair.--On a Thursday your poor Pamela was born. On a Thursday my dear good lady took me from
my parents into her protection. On a Thursday, sir, you caused me to be carried away to this
place, to which I now, by God's goodness, and your favour, owe so amazingly all my present
prospects; and on a Thursday it was, you named to me, that fourteen days from that you would
confirm my happiness. Now, sir, if you please to indulge my superstitious folly, you will greatly
oblige me. I was sorry, sir, for this reason, when you bid me not defer till the last day of
the fourteen, that Thursday in next week was that last day.

This, Pamela, is a little superstitious, I must needs say; and I think you should begin now
to make another day in the week a happy one; as for example; on a Monday, may you say, my father
and mother concluded to be married on the Thursday following. On a Monday, so many years ago,
my mother was preparing all her matters to be brought to bed on the Thursday following. On
a Monday, several weeks ago, it was that you had but two days more to stay, till you was carried
away on Thursday. On a Monday, I myself, said he, well remember, it was that I wrote you the
letter, that prevailed on you so kindly to return to me; and on the same day you did return
to my house here; which I hope, my girl, will be as propitious an era as any you have named:
And now, lastly, will you say, which will crown the work; And, on a Monday I was married.--Come,
come, my dear, added he, Thursday has reigned long enough o'conscience; let us now set Monday
in its place, or at least on an equality with it, since you see it has a very good title, and
as we now stand in the week before us, claims priority: And then, I hope, we shall make Tuesday,
Wednesday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, as happy days as Monday and Thursday; and so, by God's
blessing, move round, as the days move, in a delightful circle, till we are at a loss what
day to prefer to the rest.

O how charmingly was this said!--And how sweetly kind!

Indeed, sir, said I, you rally my folly very agreeably; but don't let a little matter stand
in the way, when you are so generously obliging in a greater: Indeed I like Thursday best,
if I may choose.

Well, then, said he, if you can say you have a better reason than this, I will oblige you;
else I'll send away for the parson this moment.

And so, I protest, he was going!--Dear sirs, how I trembled! Stay, stay, sir, said I: we have
a great deal to say first; I have a deal of silly prate to trouble you with!--Well, say then,
in a minute, replied he, the most material: for all we have to say may be talked of while the
parson is coming.--O, but indeed, and indeed, said I, it cannot be to-day!--Well, then, shall
it be to-morrow? said he.--Why, sir, if it must not be on a Thursday, you have given so many
pleasant distinctions for a Monday, that let it then be next Monday.--What! a week still? said
he. Sir, answered I, if you please; for that will be, as you enjoined, within the second seven
days. Why, girl, said he, 'twill be seven months till next Monday. Let it, said he, if not
to-morrow, be on Wednesday; I protest I will stay no longer.

Then, sir, returned I, please to defer it, however, for one day more, and it will be my beloved
Thursday! If I consent to defer it till then, may I hope, my Pamela, said he, that next Thursday
shall certainly be the happy day?--Yes, sir, said I and I am sure I looked very foolishly!

And yet, my dear father and mother, why should I, with such a fine gentleman? And whom I so
dearly love? And so much to my honour too? But there is something greatly awful upon my mind,
in the solemn circumstance, and a change of condition never to be recalled, though all the
prospects are so desirable. And I can but wonder at the thoughtless precipitancy with which
most young folks run into this important change of life!

So now, my dear parents, have I been brought to fix so near a day as next Thursday; and this
is Monday. O dear, it makes one out of breath almost to think of it! This, though, was a great
cut off; a whole week out of ten days. I hope I am not too forward! I'm sure, if it obliges
my dear master, I am justified; for he deserves of me all things in my poor power.

After this, he rode out on horseback, attended by Abraham, and did not return till night. How
by degrees things steal upon one! I thought even this small absence tedious; and the more,
as we expected him home to dinner.--I wish I may not be too fond, and make him indifferent:
But yet, my dear father and mother, you were always fond of one another, and never indifferent,
let the world run as it would.

When he returned, he said, He had had a pleasant ride, and was led out to a greater distance
than he intended. At supper he told me, that he had a great mind Mr. Williams should marry
us; because, he said, it would shew a thorough reconciliation on his part. But, said he, most
generously, I am apprehensive, from what passed between you, that the poor man will take it
hardly, and as a sort of insult, which I am not capable of. What says my girl?--Do you think
he would? I hope not, sir, said I: As to what he may think, I can't answer; but as to any reason
for his thoughts, I can: For indeed, sir, said I, you have been already so generous, that he
cannot, I think, mistake your goodness.

He then spoke with some resentment of Lady Davers's behaviour, and I asked, if any thing new
had occurred? Yes, said he; I have had a letter delivered me from her impertinent husband,
professedly at her instigation, that amounted to little less than a piece of insolent bravery,
on supposing I was about to marry you. I was so provoked, added he, that after I had read it,
I tore it in a hundred pieces, and scattered them in the air, and bid the man who brought it
let his master know what I had done with his letter; and so would not permit him to speak to
me, as he would fain have done,--I think the fellow talked somewhat of his lady coming hither;
but she shall not set her foot within my doors; and I suppose this treatment will hinder her.

I was much concerned at this: And he said, Had I a hundred sisters, Pamela, their opposition
should have no weight with me: and I did not intend you should know it; but you can't but expect
a little difficulty from the pride of my sister, who have suffered so much from that of her
brother; and we are too nearly allied in mind, as well as blood, I find.--But this is not her
business: And if she would have made it so, she should have done it with more decency. Little
occasion had she to boast of her birth, that knows not what belongs to good manners.

I said, I am very sorry, sir, to be the unhappy occasion of a misunderstanding between so good
a brother and so worthy a sister. Don't say so, Pamela, because this is an unavoidable consequence
of the happy prospect before us. Only bear it well yourself, because she is my sister; and
leave it to me to make her sensible of her own rashness.

If, sir, said I, the most lowly behaviour, and humble deportment, and in every thing shewing
a dutiful regard to good Lady Davers, will have any weight with her ladyship, assure yourself
of all in my power to mollify her. No, Pamela, returned he; don't imagine, when you are my
wife, I will suffer you to do any thing unworthy of that character. I know the duty of a husband,
and will protect your gentleness to the utmost, as much as if you were a princess by descent.

You are inexpressibly good, sir, said I; but I am far from taking a gentle disposition to shew
a meanness of spirit: And this is a trial I ought to expect; and well I may bear it, that have
so many benefits to set against it, which all spring from the same cause.

Well, said he, all the matter shall be this: We will talk of our marriage as a thing to be
done next week. I find I have spies upon me wherever I go, and whatever I do: But now, I am
on so laudable a pursuit, that I value them not, nor those who employ them. I have already
ordered my servants to have no conference with any body for ten or twelve days to come. And
Mrs. Jewkes tells me every one names Thursday come se'nnight for our nuptials. So I will get
Mr. Peters, who wants to see my little chapel, to assist Mr. Williams, under the notion of
breakfasting with me next Thursday morning, since you won't have it sooner; and there will
nobody else be wanting; and I will beg of Mr. Peters to keep it private, even from his own
family, for a few days. Has my girl any objection?

O, sir, answered I, you are so generous in all your ways, I can have no objections!--But I
hope Lady Davers and you will not proceed to irreconcilable lengths; and when her ladyship
comes to see you, and to tarry with you, two or three weeks, as she used to do, I will keep
close up, so as not to disgust her with the sight of me.

Well, Pamela, said he, we will talk of that afterwards. You must do then as I shall think fit:
And I shall be able to judge what both you and I ought to do. But what still aggravates the
matter is, that she should instigate the titled ape her husband to write to me, after she had
so little succeeded herself. I wish I had kept his letter, that I might have shewn you how
a man, that generally acts like a fool, can take upon him to write like a lord. But I suppose
it is of my sister's penning, and he, poor man! is the humble copier.

Tuesday.

Mr. Thomas is returned from you, my dear father, with the good news of your health, and your
proceeding in your journey to my dear mother, where I hope to hear soon you are arrived. My
master has just now been making me play upon the spinnet, and sing to it; and was pleased to
commend me for both. But he does so for every thing I do, so partial does his goodness make
him to me.

One o'clock.

We are just returned from an airing in the chariot; and I have been delighted with his conversation
upon English authors, poets particularly. He entertained me also with a description of some
of the curiosities he had seen in Italy and France, when he made what the polite world call
the grand tour. He said he wanted to be at his other seat, for he knew not well how to employ
himself here, having not proposed to stay half the time: And when I get there, Pamela, said
he, you will hardly be troubled with so much of my company, after we have settled; for I have
a great many things to adjust: And I must go to London; for I have accounts that have run on
longer than ordinary with my banker there. And I don't know, added he, but the ensuing winter
I may give you a little taste of the diversions of the town for a month or so. I said, His
will and pleasure should determine mine; and I never would, as near as I could, have a desire
after those, or any other entertainments that were not in his own choice.

He was pleased to say, I make no doubt but that I shall be very happy in you; and hope you
will be so in me: For, said he, I have no very enormous vices to gratify; though I pretend
not to the greatest purity, neither, my girl. Sir, said I, if you can account to your own mind,
I shall always be easy in whatever you do. But our greatest happiness here, sir, continued
I, is of very short duration; and this life, at the longest, is a poor transitory one; and
I hope we shall be so happy as to be enabled to look forward, with comfort, to another, where
our pleasures will be everlasting.

You say well, Pamela; and I shall, by degrees, be more habituated to this way of thinking,
as I more and more converse with you; but, at present, you must not be over serious with me
all at once: though I charge you never forbear to mingle your sweet divinity in our conversation,
whenever it can be brought in a propos, and with such a cheerfulness of temper, as shall not
throw a gloomy cloud over our innocent enjoyments.

I was abashed at this, and silent, fearing I had offended: But he said, If you attend rightly
to what I said, I need not tell you again, Pamela, not to be discouraged from suggesting to
me, on every proper occasion, the pious impulses of your own amiable mind. Sir, said I, you
will be always indulgent, I make no doubt, to my imperfections, so long as I mean well.

My master made me dine with him, and would eat nothing but what I helped him to; and my heart
is, every hour, more and more enlarged with his goodness and condescension. But still, what
ails me, I wonder! A strange sort of weight hangs upon my mind, as Thursday draws on, which
makes me often sigh involuntarily, and damps, at times, the pleasures of my delightful prospects!--I
hope this is not ominous; but only the foolish weakness of an over-thoughtful mind, on an occasion
the most solemn and important of one's life, next to the last scene, which shuts up all.

I could be very serious: But I will commit all my ways to that blessed Providence, which hitherto
has so wonderfully conducted me through real evils to this hopeful situation.

I only fear, and surely I have great reason, that I shall be too unworthy to hold the affections
of so dear a gentleman!--God teach me humility, and to know my own demerit! And this will be,
next to his grace, my surest guard, in the state of life to which, though most unworthy, I
am going to be exalted. And don't cease your prayers for me, my dear parents; for, perhaps,
this new condition may be subject to still worse hazards than those I have escaped; as would
be the case, were conceitedness, vanity, and pride, to take hold of my frail heart; and if
I was, for my sins, to be left to my own conduct, a frail bark in a tempestuous ocean, without
ballast, or other pilot than my own inconsiderate will. But my master said, on another occasion,
That those who doubted most, always erred least; and I hope I shall always doubt my own strength,
my own worthiness.

I will not trouble you with twenty sweet agreeable things that passed in conversation with
my excellent benefactor; nor with the civilities of M. Colbrand, Mrs. Jewkes, and all the servants,
who seem to be highly pleased with me, and with my conduct to them: And as my master, hitherto,
finds no fault that I go too low, nor they that I carry it too high, I hope I shall continue
to have every body's good-will: But yet will I not seek to gain any one's by little meannesses
or debasements! but aim at an uniform and regular conduct, willing to conceal involuntary errors,
as I would have my own forgiven; and not too industrious to discover real ones, or to hide
such, if any such should appear, as might encourage bad hearts, or unclean hands, in material
cases, where my master should receive damage, or where the morals of the transgressors should
appear wilfully and habitually corrupt. In short, I will endeavour, as much as I can, that
good servants shall find in me a kind encourager; indifferent ones be made better, by inspiring
them with a laudable emulation; and bad ones, if not too bad in nature, and quite irreclaimable,
reformed by kindness, expostulation, and even proper menaces, if necessary; but most by a good
example: All this if God pleases.

Wednesday.

Now, my dear parents, I have but this one day between me and the most solemn rite that can
be performed. My heart cannot yet shake off this heavy weight. Sure I am ungrateful to the
divine goodness, and the favour of the best of benefactors!--Yet I hope I am not!--For, at
times, my mind is all exultation, with the prospect of what good to-morrow's happy solemnity
may possibly, by the leave of my generous master, put it in my power to do. O how shall I find
words to express, as I ought, my thankfulness, for all the mercies before me!

Wednesday evening.

My dear master is all love and tenderness. He sees my weakness, and generously pities and comforts
me! I begged to be excused supper; but he brought me down himself from my closet, and placed
me by him, bidding Abraham not wait. I could not eat, and yet I tried, for fear he should be
angry. He kindly forbore to hint any thing of the dreadful, yet delightful to-morrow! and put,
now and then, a little bit on my plate, and guided it to my mouth. I was concerned to receive
his goodness with so ill a grace. Well, said he, if you won't eat with me, drink at least with
me: I drank two glasses by his over-persuasions, and said, I am really ashamed of myself. Why,
indeed, said he, my dear girl, I am not a very dreadful enemy, I hope! I cannot bear any thing
that is the least concerning to you. Oh, sir! said I, all is owing to the sense I have of my
own unworthiness!--To be sure, it cannot be any thing else.

He rung for the things to be taken away; and then reached a chair, and sat down by me, and
put his kind arms about me, and said the most generous and affecting things that ever dropt
from the honey-flowing mouth of love. All I have not time to repeat: some I will. And oh! indulge
your foolish daughter, who troubles you with her weak nonsense; because what she has to say,
is so affecting to her; and because, if she went to bed, instead of scribbling, she could not
sleep.

This sweet confusion and thoughtfulness in my beloved Pamela, said the kind man, on the near
approach of our happy union, when I hope all doubts are cleared up, and nothing of dishonour
is apprehended, shew me most abundantly, what a wretch I was to attempt such purity with a
worse intention--No wonder, that one so virtuous should find herself deserted of life itself
on a violence so dreadful to her honour, and seek a refuge in the shadow of death.--But now,
my dearest Pamela, that you have seen a purity on my side, as nearly imitating your own, as
our sex can shew to yours; and since I have, all the day long, suppressed even the least intimation
of the coming days, that I might not alarm your tender mind; why all this concern, why all
this affecting, yet sweet confusion? You have a generous friend, my dear girl, in me; a protector
now, not a violator of your innocence: Why then, once more I ask, this strange perplexity,
this sweet confusion?

O sir, said I, and hid my face on his arm; expect not reason from a foolish creature: You should
have still indulged me in my closet: I am ready to beat myself for this ungrateful return to
your goodness. But I know not what!--I am, to be sure, a silly creature! O had you but suffered
me to stay by myself above, I should have made myself ashamed of so culpable a behaviour!--But
goodness added to goodness every moment, and the sense of my own unworthiness, quite overcome
my spirits.

Now, said the generous man, will I, though reluctantly, make a proposal to my sweet girl.--If
I have been too pressing for the day: If another day will still be more obliging: If you have
fears you will not then have; you shall say but the word, and I'll submit. Yes, my Pamela;
for though I have, these three days past, thought every tedious hour a day, till Thursday comes,
if you earnestly desire it, I will postpone it. Say, my dear girl, freely say; but accept not
my proposal, without great reason, which yet I will not ask for.

