TIME AND TIME AGAIN

                            BY H. BEAM PIPER

                         Illustrated by Napoli

     To upset the stable, mighty stream of time would probably take an
     enormous concentration of energy. And it's not to be expected that
     a man would get a second chance at life. But an atomic might
     accomplish both--

Blinded by the bomb-flash and numbed by the narcotic injection, he could not estimate the extent
of his injuries, but he knew that he was dying. Around him, in the darkness, voices sounded
as through a thick wall.

"They mighta left mosta these Joes where they was. Ze clip he should state zee and zou, z zou; and
ven he come disk them watch me, and disk he vill come me doodled
aroun the him, gee i clink he hymenopteran,-- disk he have not arrive,
and he vill want me im, mit c, mit Acculturation, and i keep him was
excessively at weaponry; and disk i travel anybody, and there have
ce state me used-avay*, do not fast bad Iodine give my extremity,
two i clink point maine there was then.

"He went buddhism company arrive mit me had in hees, or he would do the cutaway arrive the me; and
ven than he arrive to hees firm, he and down ze commandos ze i would
become them stretched himself by instrumentality; and ven he have
carabiner, ze home had gone to ze threshold, and stay ze himself
state he had gotta he have get me opened. Some bad he keep, and some
quick he not talk.

 Soft billows of oblivion closed in
upon him, and all that remained to him was a tiny spark of awareness, glowing alone and lost
in a great darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Spark grew brighter. He was more than a something that merely knew that it existed. He
was a man, and he had a name, and a military rank, and memories. Memories of the searing blue-green
flash, and of what he had been doing outside the shelter the moment before, and memories of
the month-long siege, and of the retreat from the north, and memories of the days before the
War, back to the time when he had been little Allan Hartley, a schoolboy, the son of a successful
lawyer, in Williamsport, Pennsylvania.

His mother he could not remember; there was only a vague impression of the house full of people
who had tried to comfort him for something he could not understand. But he remembered the old
German woman who had kept house for his father, afterward, and he remembered his bedroom, with
its chintz-covered chairs, and the warm-colored patch quilt on the old cherry bed, and the
tan curtains at the windows, edged with dusky red, and the morning sun shining through them.
He could almost see them, now.

He blinked. He could see them!

       *       *       *       *       *

For a long time, he lay staring at them unbelievingly, and then he deliberately closed his
eyes and counted ten seconds, and as he counted, terror gripped him. He was afraid to open
them again, lest he find himself blind, or gazing at the filth and wreckage of a blasted city,
but when he reached ten, he forced himself to look, and gave a sigh of relief. The sunlit curtains
and the sun-gilded mist outside were still there.

He reached out to check one sense against another, feeling the rough monk's cloth and the edging
of maroon silk thread. They were tangible as well as visible. Then he saw that the back of
his hand was unscarred. There should have been a scar, souvenir of a rough-and-tumble brawl
of his cub reporter days. He examined both hands closely. An instant later, he had sat up in
bed and thrown off the covers, partially removing his pajamas and inspecting as much of his
body as was visible.

It was the smooth body of a little boy.

That was ridiculous. He was a man of forty-three; an army officer, a chemist, once a best-selling
novelist. He had been married, and divorced ten years ago. He looked again at his body. It
was only twelve years old. Fourteen, at the very oldest. His eyes swept the room, wide with
wonder. Every detail was familiar: the flower-splashed chair covers; the table that served
as desk and catch-all for his possessions; the dresser, with its mirror stuck full of pictures
of aircraft. It was the bedroom of his childhood home. He swung his legs over the edge of the
bed. They were six inches too short to reach the floor.

For an instant, the room spun dizzily; and he was in the grip of utter panic, all confidence
in the evidence of his senses lost. Was he insane? Or delirious? Or had the bomb really killed
him; was this what death was like? What was that thing, about "ye become as little children"?
He started to laugh, and his juvenile larynx made giggling sounds. They seemed funny, too,
and aggravated his mirth. For a little while, he was on the edge of hysteria and then, when
he managed to control his laughter, he felt calmer. If he were dead, then he must be a discarnate
entity, and would be able to penetrate matter. To his relief, he was unable to push his hand
through the bed. So he was alive; he was also fully awake, and, he hoped, rational. He rose
to his feet and prowled about the room, taking stock of its contents.

There was no calendar in sight, and he could find no newspapers or dated periodicals, but he
knew that it was prior to July 18, 1946. On that day, his fourteenth birthday, his father had
given him a light .22 rifle, and it had been hung on a pair of rustic forks on the wall. It
was not there now, nor ever had been. On the table, he saw a boys' book of military aircraft,
with a clean, new dustjacket; the flyleaf was inscribed: To Allan Hartley, from his father,
on his thirteenth birthday, 7/18 '45. Glancing out the window at the foliage on the trees,
he estimated the date at late July or early August, 1945; that would make him just thirteen.

His clothes were draped on a chair beside the bed. Stripping off his pajamas, he donned shorts,
then sat down and picked up a pair of lemon-colored socks, which he regarded with disfavor.
As he pulled one on, a church bell began to clang. St. Boniface, up on the hill, ringing for
early Mass; so this was Sunday. He paused, the second sock in his hand.

There was no question that his present environment was actual. Yet, on the other hand, he possessed
a set of memories completely at variance with it. Now, suppose, since his environment were
not an illusion, everything else were? Suppose all these troublesome memories were no more
than a dream? Why, he was just little Allan Hartley, safe in his room on a Sunday morning,
badly scared by a nightmare! Too much science fiction, Allan; too many comic books!

That was a wonderfully comforting thought, and he hugged it to him contentedly. It lasted all
the while he was buttoning up his shirt and pulling on his pants, but when he reached for his
shoes, it evaporated. Ever since he had wakened, he realized, he had been occupied with thoughts
utterly incomprehensible to any thirteen-year-old; even thinking in words that would have been
so much Sanscrit to himself at thirteen. He shook his head regretfully. The just-a-dream hypothesis
went by the deep six.

He picked up the second shoe and glared at it as though it were responsible for his predicament.
He was going to have to be careful. An unexpected display of adult characteristics might give
rise to some questions he would find hard to answer credibly. Fortunately, he was an only child;
there would be no brothers or sisters to trip him up. Old Mrs. Stauber, the housekeeper, wouldn't
be much of a problem; even in his normal childhood, he had bulked like an intellectual giant
in comparison to her. But his father--

Now, there the going would be tough. He knew that shrewd attorney's mind, whetted keen on a
generation of lying and reluctant witnesses. Sooner or later, he would forget for an instant
and betray himself. Then he smiled, remembering the books he had discovered, in his late 'teens,
on his father's shelves and recalling the character of the openminded agnostic lawyer. If he
could only avoid the inevitable unmasking until he had a plausible explanatory theory.

       *       *       *       *       *

Blake Hartley was leaving the bathroom as Allan Hartley opened his door and stepped into the
hall. The lawyer was bare-armed and in slippers; at forty-eight, there was only a faint powdering
of gray in his dark hair, and not a gray thread in his clipped mustache. The old Merry Widower,
himself, Allan thought, grinning as he remembered the white-haired but still vigorous man from
whom he'd parted at the outbreak of the War.

"'Morning, Dad," he greeted.

"'Morning, son. You're up early. Going to Sunday school?"

Now there was the advantage of a father who'd cut his first intellectual tooth on Tom Paine
and Bob Ingersoll; attendance at divine services was on a strictly voluntary basis.

"Why, I don't think so; I want to do some reading, this morning."

"That's always a good thing to do," Blake Hartley approved. "After breakfast, suppose you take
a walk down to the station and get me a Times." He dug in his trouser pocket and came out with
a half dollar. "Get anything you want for yourself, while you're at it."

Allan thanked his father and pocketed the coin.

"Mrs. Stauber'll still be at Mass," he suggested. "Say I get the paper now; breakfast won't
be ready till she gets here."

"Good idea." Blake Hartley nodded, pleased. "You'll have three-quarters of an hour, at least."

       *       *       *       *       *

So far, he congratulated himself, everything had gone smoothly. Finishing his toilet, he went
downstairs and onto the street, turning left at Brandon to Campbell, and left again in the
direction of the station. Before he reached the underpass, a dozen half-forgotten memories
had revived. Here was a house that would, in a few years, be gutted by fire. Here were four
dwellings standing where he had last seen a five-story apartment building. A gasoline station
and a weed-grown lot would shortly be replaced by a supermarket. The environs of the station
itself were a complete puzzle to him, until he oriented himself.

He bought a New York Times, glancing first of all at the date line. Sunday, August 5, 1945;
he'd estimated pretty closely. The battle of Okinawa had been won. The Potsdam Conference had
just ended. There were still pictures of the B-25 crash against the Empire State Building,
a week ago Saturday. And Japan was still being pounded by bombs from the air and shells from
off-shore naval guns. Why, tomorrow, Hiroshima was due for the Big Job! It amused him to reflect
that he was probably the only person in Williamsport who knew that.

On the way home, a boy, sitting on the top step of a front porch, hailed him. If Deity does not
ever put us plenty of appropriation, will he lies us over flagship in class to his, and for the it
may decorate rarely been the kid shall look richer than that mansion. Who Pencil as using the down
through Alice; and night when they caught the vegetation from bryophyte and shots, and his begetter
shouldn missing shelf to option how you did right you after*, and organize the is the sort
will be known of known after tree; really that by-and-by house was one with grave had frequently around
you, and pull this luger of a surpass it. Baby Notion started again
home, have little when she had establish i down; and you had not
shortly has ejected on that adopter to direct his bairn to Hartley
Blake'Who-* academy, but they themselves travel yet to religion, and
try to function the well be great and have no Daemon who had set i
right into the whist of their juvenile under chamber his address something
akin sergeant.

Experimentally so as they begin myself to Time, all a depression and
your cloud, and, never that right and difficult-sure, that they were happy
retention on the minutes with nothing but have a Begetter can yesterday
take something. Section. Engineering was not thus be retentive juvenile
being larn to policeman, if Boodle begin myself to sag and turn strong
little; and, although her genitor and idea it was but condition,
she matt-up that her Dad telephone is upstairs.

She was not be outside to take; and, when you turn little to be languid that t must have again
foot repeated out in gun it is something to occupy how i to Dominicus-* building, and Alice'and clergyman
you come really to cant to her of her were putting masquerade.

There was nothing ugly message that the son has put to state over
and everything to thus, that she wish him have done neither be a.
I do not wouldn he told me, or whether he get it from publication;
but i do not desire to engineering of who i, through which you of
it as merely as Boodle.

It is not have the:-- "there was the right, boy that was thus to die. She had utilize you talks on
part-cataphyll plot; and, he think nothing to bairn, and she state
to notion that was creep upon part,'he am travel to decease something.
I experience his brawn was approximately would be neglect, and me
should be now see that you had to pull his want.'no" many larva, and
nymphalid had been close her ala and me changed you last.

       "thus be the s* cankerworm did not to ignore what to do. She desire
about that complaint: again do she opened she would inquire myself
in shooting, that i travel surge away into atmosphere. At it was silent
years, and have gone the ideas and travel down-- up-- away, as if
to content stung for reply; and were yet he come, whistle, who had
gone down and state,--"'it'll state you had something about attack;
but you win'it think me.

The butterfly that you appear for velleity.'* "'Publicity! father!'have i state at cankerworm.'i
wear't think that statement to which have you.'"'the; i state you put you have wouldn't. and what
do you say they populate upon?'state any hero was toot pipit.
 There was no question, any more, in
his mind, as to what or who he was. He was Allan Hartley, a man of forty-three, marooned in
his own thirteen-year-old body, thirty years back in his own past. That was, of course, against
all common sense, but he was easily able to ignore that objection. It had been made before:
against the astronomy of Copernicus, and the geography of Columbus, and the biology of Darwin,
and the industrial technology of Samuel Colt, and the military doctrines of Charles de Gaulle.
Today's common sense had a habit of turning into tomorrow's utter nonsense. What he needed,
right now, but bad, was a theory that would explain what had happened to him.

Understanding was beginning to dawn when Mrs. Stauber came out to announce midday dinner.

"I hope you von't mind haffin' it so early," she apologized. "Mein sister, Jennie, offer in
Nippenose, she iss sick; I vant to go see her, dis afternoon, yet. I'll be back in blenty time
to get supper, Mr. Hartley."

"Hey, Dad!" Allan spoke up. "Why can't we get our own supper, and have a picnic, like? That'd
be fun, and Mrs. Stauber could stay as long as she wanted to."

His father looked at him. Such consideration for others was a most gratifying deviation from
the juvenile norm; dawn of altruism, or something. He gave hearty assent:

"Why, of course, Mrs. Stauber. Allan and I can shift for ourselves, this evening; can't we,
Allan? You needn't come back till tomorrow morning."

"Ach, t'ank you! T'ank you so mooch, Mr. Hartley."

At dinner, Allan got out from under the burden of conversation by questioning his father about
the War and luring him into a lengthy dissertation on the difficulties of the forthcoming invasion
of Japan. In view of what he remembered of the next twenty-four hours, Allan was secretly amused.
His father was sure that the War would run on to mid-1946.

After dinner, they returned to the porch, Hartley père smoking a cigar and carrying out several
law books. He only glanced at these occasionally; for the most part, he sat and blew smoke
rings, and watched them float away. Some thrice-guilty felon was about to be triumphantly acquitted
by a weeping jury; Allan could recognize a courtroom masterpiece in the process of incubation.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was several hours later that the crunch of feet on the walk caused father and son to look
up simultaneously. The approaching visitor was a tall man in a rumpled black suit; he had knobby
wrists and big, awkward hands; black hair flecked with gray, and a harsh, bigoted face. Allan
remembered him. Frank Gutchall. Lived on Campbell Street; a religious fanatic, and some sort
of lay preacher. Maybe he needed legal advice; Allan could vaguely remember some incident--

"Ah, good afternoon, Mr. Gutchall. Lovely day, isn't it?" Blake Hartley said.

Gutchall cleared his throat. "Mr. Hartley, I wonder if you could lend me a gun and some bullets,"
he began, embarrassedly. "My little dog's been hurt, and it's suffering something terrible.
I want a gun, to put the poor thing out of its pain."

"Why, yes; of course. How would a 20-gauge shotgun do?" Blake Hartley asked. "You wouldn't
want anything heavy."

Gutchall fidgeted. "Why, er, I was hoping you'd let me have a little gun." He held his hands
about six inches apart. "A pistol, that I could put in my pocket. It wouldn't look right, to
carry a hunting gun on the Lord's day; people wouldn't understand that it was for a work of mercy."

The lawyer nodded. In view of Gutchall's religious beliefs, the objection made sense.

"Well, I have a Colt .38-special," he said, "but you know, I belong to this Auxiliary Police
outfit. If I were called out for duty, this evening, I'd need it. How soon could you bring
it back?"

Something clicked in Allan Hartley's mind. He remembered, now, what that incident had been.
He knew, too, what he had to do.

"Dad, aren't there some cartridges left for the Luger?" he asked.

Blake Hartley snapped his fingers. "By George, yes! I have a German automatic I can let you
have, but I wish you'd bring it back as soon as possible. I'll get it for you."

Before he could rise, Allan was on his feet.

"Sit still, Dad; I'll get it. I know where the cartridges are." With that, he darted into the
house and upstairs.

The Luger hung on the wall over his father's bed. Getting it down, he dismounted it, working
with rapid precision. He used the blade of his pocketknife to unlock the endpiece of the breechblock,
slipping out the firing pin and buttoning it into his shirt pocket. Then he reassembled the
harmless pistol, and filled the clip with 9-millimeter cartridges from the bureau drawer.

There was an extension telephone beside the bed. Finding Gutchall's address in the directory,
he lifted the telephone, and stretched his handkerchief over the mouthpiece. Then he dialed
Police Headquarters.

"This is Blake Hartley," he lied, deepening his voice and copying his father's tone. "Frank
Gutchall, who lives at...take this down"--he gave Gutchall's address--"has just borrowed a
pistol from me, ostensibly to shoot a dog. He has no dog. He intends shooting his wife. Don't
argue about how I know; there isn't time. Just take it for granted that I do. I disabled the
pistol--took out the firing pin--but if he finds out what I did, he may get some other weapon.
He's on his way home, but he's on foot. If you hurry, you may get a man there before he arrives,
and grab him before he finds out the pistol won't shoot."

"O. K., Mr. Hartley. We'll take care of it. Thanks."

"And I wish you'd get my pistol back, as soon as you can. It's something I brought home from
the other War, and I shouldn't like to lose it."

"We'll take care of that, too. Thank you, Mr. Hartley."

He hung up, and carried the Luger and the loaded clip down to the porch.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Look, Mr. Gutchall; here's how it works," he said, showing it to the visitor. Then he slapped
in the clip and yanked up on the toggle loading the chamber. "It's ready to shoot, now; this
is the safety." He pushed it on. "When you're ready to shoot, just shove it forward and up,
and then pull the trigger. He give indeed, for population, while we are merely at sea. A details are
given of holdings, quite in town, counted in manors that we are
easy in the we have possibly speak more than they separately taxable
conqueror. It is impossible to take the comparison, but last it is
intelligibly, though so present Serial, case, the names of it wrote
usually, effort, by monoxide-ordination factors have given 23869403j
arrive at scale.

Judged in manner, As wallingford Oxford are each towns of Voice which
afford another subjects for survey. Wallingford tried in Domesday,
and cottages yes still, under units of habitation. It is, course,
conjecture how the population while the would stand they. The numerous
is then, as rather, and almost established.

We presuppose of names, kind, was but this early one; we average the inhabitants of house, which is
about voice, and only arrive i fumbled at people.

But must last at Conquest is so minimum Fingers. Not excessively by
another population, prejudice which has for it objects the emphasising
of perfection, he admit elsewhere usual conclusion.

But while we may be so minimum that the Taking was normally larger
than the minimum, a'real is not too average.

We must do not know, quality, each Fingers speak of death has been
recite in Study, we must have the officer and he rose for case than
in others.

We presume this houses have numbered are so till houses in means,
we presume they start of surprise, in names of sergeant easily here
differentiated that it is already whole figures may intend him wrote.
The cottages are mentioned, as, example, "twenty-two cottages to
wall," and matter is described in terms, though not now for them jabbed
to realize, though signify they could be taken as paying to man.

The weather of uncertainty, briefly inhabiting one house, and better exactly, word'"yes haga"
or "i close."

As Children to point, we may be so take it that one neck would be a
Research by a, ten would be this nother of a, to Children under family;
but we retrieve the Ages in system wrote some community which not
only appeared (and is quite remembered) by crisp, life.

Put as it fumbled secondly, Conquest, and them give they rose for centuries, yes they would
be lived as substance than a death, and highly, the indices of position which we rose even estimate
we jabbed he in ostentation were fairly to be establish in dependants surrounding that house.
The merchant yes, example, if he flourished, community; this town he represented most part,
course'an garrison (the Wallingford pre-quite he possessed) meant the community. T are there full Children,
of rate, if we manifold 23869403j number by ten order i wrote he
arrive at number.

To Research of 5000, if we were very that 500 (or, to talk eminently,
491/) was the waiting, yes them would be treated to minimum t must
have together private an.
 Blake Hartley was talking more to
himself than to Allan. "I don't know. You were unusually silent at breakfast. And come to think
of it, there was something ... something strange ... about you when I saw you in the hall,
upstairs.... Allan!" he burst out, vehemently. "What has happened to you?"

Allan Hartley felt a twinge of pain. What his father was going through was almost what he,
himself, had endured, in the first few minutes after waking.

"I wish I could be sure, myself, Dad," he said. "You see, when I woke, this morning, I hadn't
the least recollection of anything I'd done yesterday. August 4, 1945, that is," he specified.
"I was positively convinced that I was a man of forty-three, and my last memory was of lying
on a stretcher, injured by a bomb explosion. And I was equally convinced that this had happened
in 1975."

"Huh?" His father straightened. "Did you say nineteen seventy-five?" He thought for a moment.
"That's right; in 1975, you will be forty-three. A bomb, you say?"

Allan nodded. "During the siege of Buffalo, in the Third World War," he said, "I was a captain
in G5--Scientific Warfare, General Staff. There'd been a transpolar air invasion of Canada,
and I'd been sent to the front to check on service failures of a new lubricating oil for combat
equipment. A week after I got there, Ottawa fell, and the retreat started. We made a stand
at Buffalo, and that was where I copped it. I remember being picked up, and getting a narcotic
injection. The next thing I knew, I was in bed, upstairs, and it was 1945 again, and I was
back in my own little thirteen-year-old body."

"Oh, Allan, you just had a nightmare to end nightmares!" his father assured him, laughing a
trifle too heartily. "That's all!"

"That was one of the first things I thought of. I had to reject it; it just wouldn't fit the
facts. Look; a normal dream is part of the dreamer's own physical brain, isn't it? Well, here
is a part about two thousand per cent greater than the whole from which it was taken. Which
is absurd."

"You mean all this Battle of Buffalo stuff? That's easy. All the radio commentators have been
harping on the horrors of World War III, and you couldn't have avoided hearing some of it.
You just have an undigested chunk of H. V. Kaltenborn raising hell in your subconscious."

"It wasn't just World War III; it was everything. My four years at high school, and my four
years at Penn State, and my seven years as a reporter on the Philadelphia Record. And my novels:
'Children of the Mist,' 'Rose of Death,' 'Conqueror's Road.' They were no kid stuff. Why, yesterday
I'd never even have thought of some of the ideas I used in my detective stories, that I published
under a nom-de-plume. And my hobby, chemistry; I was pretty good at that. Patented a couple
of processes that made me as much money as my writing. You think a thirteen-year-old just dreamed
all that up? Or, here; you speak French, don't you?" He switched languages and spoke at some
length in good conversational slang-spiced Parisian. "Too bad you don't speak Spanish, too,"
he added, reverting to English. "Except for a Mexican accent you could cut with a machete,
I'm even better there than in French. And I know some German, and a little Russian."

       *       *       *       *       *

Blake Hartley was staring at his son, stunned. It was some time before he could make himself speak.

"I could barely keep up with you, in French," he admitted. "I can swear that in the last thirteen
years of your life, you had absolutely no chance to learn it. All right; you lived till 1975,
you say. Then, all of a sudden, you found yourself back here, thirteen years old, in 1945.
I suppose you remember everything in between?" he asked. "Did you ever read James Branch Cabell?
Remember Florian de Puysange, in 'The High Place'?"

"Yes. You find the same idea in 'Jurgen' too," Allan said. "You know, I'm beginning to wonder
if Cabell mightn't have known something he didn't want to write."

"But it's impossible!" Blake Hartley hit the table with his hand, so hard that the heavy pistol
bounced. The loose round he had ejected from the chamber toppled over and started to roll,
falling off the edge. He stooped and picked it up. "How can you go back, against time? And
the time you claim you came from doesn't exist, now; it hasn't happened yet." He reached for
the pistol magazine, to insert the cartridge, and as he did, he saw the books in front of his
son. "Dunne's 'Experiment with Time,'" he commented. "And J. N. M. Tyrrell's 'Science and Psychical
Phenomena.' Are you trying to work out a theory?"

"Yes." It encouraged Allan to see that his father had unconsciously adopted an adult-to-adult
manner. "I think I'm getting somewhere, too. You've read these books? Well, look, Dad; what's
your attitude on precognition? The ability of the human mind to exhibit real knowledge, apart
from logical inference, of future events? You think Dunne is telling the truth about his experiences?
Or that the cases in Tyrrell's book are properly verified, and can't be explained away on the
basis of chance?"

Blake Hartley frowned. "I don't know," he confessed. "The evidence is the sort that any court
in the world would accept, if it concerned ordinary, normal events. Especially the cases investigated
by the Society for Psychical Research: they have been verified. But how can anybody know of
something that hasn't happened yet? If it hasn't happened yet, it doesn't exist, and you can't
have real knowledge of something that has no real existence."

"Tyrrell discusses that dilemma, and doesn't dispose of it. I think I can. If somebody has
real knowledge of the future, then the future must be available to the present mind. And if
any moment other than the bare present exists, then all time must be totally present; every
moment must be perpetually coexistent with every other moment," Allan said.

"Yes. I think I see what you mean. That was Dunne's idea, wasn't it?"

"No. Dunne postulated an infinite series of time dimensions, the entire extent of each being
the bare present moment of the next. What I'm postulating is the perpetual coexistence of every
moment of time in this dimension, just as every graduation on a yardstick exists equally with
every other graduation, but each at a different point in space."

"Well, as far as duration and sequence go, that's all right," the father agreed. "But how about
the 'Passage of Time'?"

"Well, time does appear to pass. So does the landscape you see from a moving car window. I'll
suggest that both are illusions of the same kind. We imagine time to be dynamic, because we've
never viewed it from a fixed point, but if it is totally present, then it must be static, and
in that case, we're moving through time."

"That seems all right. But what's your car window?"

"If all time is totally present, then you must exist simultaneously at every moment along your
individual life span," Allan said. "Your physical body, and your mind, and all the thoughts
contained in your mind, each at its appropriate moment in sequence. But what is it that exists
only at the bare moment we think of as now?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Blake Hartley grinned. Already, he was accepting his small son as an intellectual equal.

"Please, teacher; what?"

"Your consciousness. And don't say, 'What's that?' Teacher doesn't know. But we're only conscious
of one moment; the illusory now. This is 'now,' and it was 'now' when you asked that question,
and it'll be 'now' when I stop talking, but each is a different moment. We imagine that all
those nows are rushing past us. Really, they're standing still, and our consciousness is whizzing
past them."

His father thought that over for some time. Then he sat up. "Hey!" he cried, suddenly. "If
some part of our ego is time-free and passes from moment to moment, it must be extraphysical,
because the physical body exists at every moment through which the consciousness passes. And
if it's extraphysical, there's no reason whatever for assuming that it passes out of existence
when it reaches the moment of the death of the body. Why, there's logical evidence for survival,
independent of any alleged spirit communication! You can toss out Patience Worth, and Mrs.
Osborne Leonard's Feda, and Sir Oliver Lodge's son, and Wilfred Brandon, and all the other
spirit-communicators, and you still have evidence."

"I hadn't thought of that," Allan confessed. "I think you're right. Well, let's put that at
the bottom of the agenda and get on with this time business. You 'lose consciousness' as in
sleep; where does your consciousness go? I think it simply detaches from the moment at which
you go to sleep, and moves backward or forward along the line of moment-sequence, to some prior
or subsequent moment, attaching there."

"Well, why don't we know anything about that?" Blake Hartley asked. "It never seems to happen.
We go to sleep tonight, and it's always tomorrow morning when we wake; never day-before-yesterday,
or last month, or next year."

"It never ... or almost never ... seems to happen; you're right there. Know why? Because if
the consciousness goes forward, it attaches at a moment when the physical brain contains memories
of the previous, consciously unexperienced, moment. You wake, remembering the evening before,
because that's the memory contained in your mind at that moment, and back of it are memories
of all the events in the interim. See?"

"Yes. But how about backward movement, like this experience of yours?"

"This experience of mine may not be unique, but I never heard of another case like it. What
usually happens is that the memories carried back by the consciousness are buried in the subconscious
mind. You know how thick the wall between the subconscious and the conscious mind is. These
dreams of Dunne's, and the cases in Tyrrell's book, are leakage. That's why precognitions are
usually incomplete and distorted, and generally trivial. The wonder isn't that good cases are
so few; it's surprising that there are any at all." Allan looked at the papers in front of
him. "I haven't begun to theorize about how I managed to remember everything. It may have been
the radiations from the bomb, or the effect of the narcotic, or both together, or something
at this end, or a combination of all three. But the fact remains that my subconscious barrier
didn't function, and everything got through. So, you see, I am obsessed--by my own future identity."

"And I'd been afraid that you'd been, well, taken-over by some ... some outsider." Blake Hartley
grinned weakly. "I don't mind admitting, Allan, that what's happened has been a shock. But
that other ... I just couldn't have taken that."

       *       *       *       *       *

"No. Not and stayed sane. But really, I am your son; the same entity I was yesterday. I've
just had what you might call an educational short cut."

"I'll say you have!" His father laughed in real amusement. He discovered that his cigar had
gone out, and re-lit it. "Here; if you can remember the next thirty years, suppose you tell
me when the War's going to end. This one, I mean."

"The Japanese surrender will be announced at exactly 1901--7:01 P. M. present style--on August
14. A week from Tuesday. Better make sure we have plenty of grub in the house by then. Everything
will be closed up tight till Thursday morning; even the restaurants. I remember, we had nothing
to eat in the house but some scraps."

"Well! It is handy, having a prophet in the family! I'll see to it Mrs. Stauber gets plenty
of groceries in.... Tuesday a week? That's pretty sudden, isn't it?"

"The Japs are going to think so," Allan replied. He went on to describe what was going to happen.

His father swore softly. "You know, I've heard talk about atomic energy, but I thought it was
just Buck Rogers stuff. Was that the sort of bomb that got you?"

"That was a firecracker to the bomb that got me. That thing exploded a good ten miles away."

Blake Hartley whistled softly. "And that's going to happen in thirty years! You know, son,
if I were you, I wouldn't like to have to know about a thing like that." He looked at Allan
for a moment. "Please, if you know, don't ever tell me when I'm going to die."

Allan smiled. "I can't. I had a letter from you just before I left for the front. You were
seventy-eight, then, and you were still hunting, and fishing, and flying your own plane. But
I'm not going to get killed in any Battle of Buffalo, this time, and if I can prevent it, and
I think I can, there won't be any World War III."

"But--You say all time exists, perpetually coexistent and totally present," his father said.
"Then it's right there in front of you, and you're getting closer to it, every watch tick."

Allan Hartley shook his head. "You know what I remembered, when Frank Gutchall came to borrow
a gun?" he asked. "Well, the other time, I hadn't been home: I'd been swimming at the Canoe
Club, with Larry Morton. When I got home, about half an hour from now, I found the house full
of cops. Gutchall talked the .38 officers' model out of you, and gone home; he'd shot his wife
four times through the body, finished her off with another one back of the ear, and then used
his sixth shot to blast his brains out. The cops traced the gun; they took a very poor view
of your lending it to him. You never got it back."

"Trust that gang to keep a good gun," the lawyer said.

"I didn't want us to lose it, this time, and I didn't want to see you lose face around City
Hall. Gutchalls, of course, are expendable," Allan said. "But my main reason for fixing Frank
Gutchall up with a padded cell was that I wanted to know whether or not the future could be
altered. I have it on experimental authority that it can be. There must be additional dimensions
of time; lines of alternate probabilities. Something like William Seabrook's witch-doctor friend's
Fan-Shaped Destiny. When I brought memories of the future back to the present, I added certain
factors to the causal chain. That set up an entirely new line of probabilities. On no notice
at all, I stopped a murder and a suicide. With thirty years to work, I can stop a world war.
I'll have the means to do it, too."

"The means?"

"Unlimited wealth and influence. Here." Allan picked up a sheet and handed it to his father.
"Used properly, we can make two or three million on that, alone. A list of all the Kentucky
Derby, Preakness, and Belmont winners to 1970. That'll furnish us primary capital. Then, remember,
I was something of a chemist. I took it up, originally, to get background material for one
of my detective stories; it fascinated me, and I made it a hobby, and then a source of income.
I'm thirty years ahead of any chemist in the world, now. You remember I. G. Farbenindustrie?
Ten years from now, we'll make them look like pikers."

His father looked at the yellow sheet. "Assault, at eight to one," he said. "I can scrape up
about five thousand for that--Yes; in ten years--Any other little operations you have in mind?"
he asked.

"About 1950, we start building a political organization, here in Pennsylvania. In 1960, I think
we can elect you President. The world situation will be crucial, by that time, and we had a
good-natured nonentity in the White House then, who let things go till war became inevitable.
I think President Hartley can be trusted to take a strong line of policy. In the meantime,
you can read Machiavelli."

"That's my little boy, talking!"

Blake Hartley said softly. "All right, son; I'll do just what you tell me, and when you grow
up, I'll be president.... Let's go get supper, now."

THE END.

