Faintly, as from an immense distance, came the thin whistle of space-radio. "S-W-A ... S-W-A
... S-W-A...." The general attention signal for all Earth's far-flung outposts from Jupiter
to Mercury! The signal was coming from "M-I-T-A," the Earth company's home station on the Moon,
outside the Heaviside layer. "S-W-A ... S-W-A ... M-I-T-A ... M-I-T-A." Again the signal rose
and fell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jim reached for the sending key and pounded out his acknowledgement: "K; M-E-R ... K; M-E-R
... K; M-E-R." He listened again, heard Venus answer, and Jupiter. Across five hundred million
miles of space ITA men were responding to the roll-call of Earth. A reminiscent smile crossed
Jim's face as he recognized the stuttering fist of Rade Perrin, on Eros. Rade always sent as
if he were afraid the instrument would snap at his fingers.

M-I-T-A was signalling again, and now came the message: "S-W-A. All trading posts, mines and
colonies are warned to prepare for possible attack. The Earth Government has just announced
the receipt of an ultimatum from--" A raucous howl cut across the message and drowned it out.
The siren blast howled on and on, mocking Jim's straining ears. "Well I'll be--Interference!
Deliberate blanketing! The rats! The--" He blazed into a torrent of profanity whose imaginativeness
was matched only by its virulence.

Mac was clutching his shoulder, stirred for once out of his vaunted "deegnity." "What is it,
mon, what is it?"

"War, you bloody Scotchman, war! That's what it is!"

"War! Foosh, man, 'tis eempossible!"

"The hell it's impossible! Damn, and Darl not here! Take over, Mac; I've got to go up an' get him!"

       *       *       *       *       *

In the meantime Thomas' helpless journey had come to an end. After an interminable descent
in what to him had been pitch darkness, the giant who was carrying him halted. Darl had heard
the whistling inrush of air into some lock, then the clanging of a door. He felt himself hurled
to the ground. Fumbling hands tugged at him, drew off his space suit.

The dim light of the cavern, as the helmet was dragged from his head, hurt Darl's eyes. Salt
sweat stung them. It was hot, hotter than the Dome, hot as it was in the surta mine, where
only the nerveless Venusians could work for any length of time.

Darl struggled to focus his eyes on a blurred blue form that towered above him. He felt sharp
claws scratch at him and realized that cords were being passed around his limp body. They cut
tightly into his legs and his arms. Then he was staring at a tube in the hand of his captor.
Its end glowed with a brilliant purple light, and he felt a flood of reawakened energy warm
him. His head jerked up, he strained against the taut, strong fibers binding him. The paralysis
was gone, but he was still helpless.

A husky, rumbling voice broke the silence. "I wouldn't struggle, Earthman, if I were you. Even
should you get free I still have my ray-tube. And my little friends would ask nothing better
than your body to play with."

Darl writhed to a sitting posture. Now he could see his mysterious abductor clearly. This eight-foot,
blue-feathered individual, with curved beak and beady eyes glittering from his naked, repulsively
wrinkled head, was a Martian! Despite the human shape of his body, despite his jointed limbs
and thumbed hands, this denizen of the red planet resembled a vulture far more than he did
any other Earth creature.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Earthman's pride of race came to his rescue. "What's the game?" he growled. "Looking for
trouble?" There was nothing in Darl's voice to show the fear that chilled him. Behind the Martian
he could see vaguely a group of little yellow Mercurians.

"I'll ask all the questions here. And you'll answer them, too, if you're wise. Even your dull
mind should comprehend that you are in my power."

Darl decided to proceed more cautiously. "What do you want from me?" he asked.

"I want," the Martian answered, "the recognition signal of Earth's space-ships."

"What!" The ejaculation burst from Darl's throat. This alien wanted the secret code, the watch-word
that distinguished Earth's space ships, that gained for them free admittance to ITA's armed
posts on the outer planets! This could mean only one thing, that the long rivalry, the ancient
dispute between Earth and Mars was about to flare into open war. Any friendly visit from a
foreign flier would be heralded by word from M-I-T-A. Thomas' face became a stony mask, covering
the tumult of his mind.

"You understood. I want the Earth recognition signal at once--and after that, the surrender
of the Dome." The very calmness of the husky tones was a threat.

"Never!"

"I warn you, Darl Thomas. It would be the better part of wisdom for you to yield willingly
what I ask. You will give in eventually, and the means of persuasion I shall use will not be
exactly--pleasant."

"You'll get nothing from me!"

The outlander's lidless eyes were filmed with a gray membrane. His head thrust forward, the
feathered ruff beneath it bristled. Darl braced himself to withstand the swooping pounce that
seemed imminent, the slash of the sharp beak. A burring rattle broke the momentary hush. The
Martian relaxed, turned to the Mercurian from whom the sound had come and replied with staccato
vibrance.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the cave filled with a whirring tumult Darl had a chance to examine the Mercurian natives
crowding around his prostrate body. They were little yellow midgets, ranging from eighteen
inches to two feet in height. Half of their small stature was taken up by snouted heads, with
saucer-like, crimson eyes, and long white tusks jutting from foam-flecked mouths. The trunks
were globular. The spindling legs and thin arms ended in sharp claws. There was an impression
of animal ferocity about these tiny beings that stamped them as utter savages.

His captor was speaking to the Earthman again, his horny beak parted in what might have been
a grim smile. "My friends remind me that I promised you to them. They have not forgotten how
you and your fellows drove them from their burrows."

Darl was suddenly cold, though the sweat still streamed from his bound body. An uncontrollable
shudder took him as he saw what the diminutive claws of the midgets held. While the Dome was
still an unfinished framework one of the Terrestrian artisans had somehow been isolated from
his fellows. Thomas had been of the party that found what was left of him, and the memory was
still a throbbing nightmare.

"Once more! Will you give me the recognition signal?"

Darl shook his head, and prayed for sudden death. The Martian spoke to the dwarfs. They started
forward, saliva drooling from their tusks. Darl gritted his teeth. He would hold out as long
as was humanly possible.

A shrill rhythmic whistle came from somewhere outside. The blue giant started and snapped something
to the Mercurians. Then he turned to Darl. "I must leave you for a little while," he said.
"You have till I return to change your mind." With a parting admonition to the savages he was
gone through a side door that Thomas had not noticed before.

       *       *       *       *       *

Grateful for the postponement, however short, of the inescapable ordeal, Darl took stock of
his situation. He lay, firmly bound, on the gritty rock floor of a low-ceiled cave about twelve
feet square. In one wall was a door of red metal. The portal through which the Martian had
vanished was next to it. Darl repressed an exclamation when he saw the opposite wall. It was
of solid metal, bluishly iridescent. That was beryllium steel, the alloy from which the barriers
at the terminals of the surta mine were fashioned. He forced his head higher. There were the
marks of the jointures, the weldings that he himself had made.

The discovery seemed only to emphasize the helplessness of his predicament. His faithful Venusians,
Ran-los, Ta-ira, and the rest were just on the other side of the three-inch plate of toughened
steel. Three inches--yet it might have been as many hundred miles for all the help they could
give him.

The yellow pigmies were circling in a macabre dance, their crimson eyes turned always toward
him, hate glowing from their crawling depths. The whistle beyond changed in character. Darl
recognized it. It was a Martian space-radio, the code of which Earth scientists had never been
able to decipher. The Mercurian circle tightened, the fetid smell of the dwarfs was overpowering.
Low at first, then louder and louder came the rattling cacophony of their chant. It filled
the confined space with an overpowering clamor.

Darl writhed again, rolling over and over till he had reached the barrier. The pigmies gave
way before him; evidently they had been warned to keep their claws off. With his insteps Thomas
could reach the helmet of his space suit, where it had been dropped against the wall. He drove
it against the metal and the clangor of its striking reverberated through the chamber. Darl
managed to regulate the sound. He was now hammering out double knocks, long and short, spaced
in the dots and dashes of the Morse code. "H-E-L-P D-A-R-L H-E-L-P D-A-R-L H-E-L-P...."

It was like some scene out of a madman's dream, this dim-lit cavern with its circling, dancing
pigmies, the human figure lying sidewise on the ground, the rattling, savage chant and the
metallic tattoo of Darl's hopeless message. A diabolic orgy of weird sound and crisscrossing
shadows.

       *       *       *       *       *

It seemed hours that he pounded the helmet against the wall, hoping that the sound of it would
be audible above the clamor of the midgets. His knees and hips were aching and numb, his leg
ripped, almost to the bone by the sharp edges of the jagged floor. A sudden thought struck
him. The fiber thongs that bound him were also rubbing against the rock. His flesh was terribly
torn. Perhaps the thongs, too, had been frayed, weakened by the long continued friction.

He stopped the pounding signals and began to force his knees apart with all the power of his
burly calves. The cords cut into his bulging muscles, cut into and through his skin. The veins
stood out on his forehead, his neck was a corded pillar, his teeth bit through his lip as he
stifled a scream of pain. Then, startlingly, the fibers snapped. His legs at least were free!
He could fight, die fighting, and take these others with him into oblivion!

Darl leaped to his feet. Before the astounded natives realized what was up he was charging
into their circle. A well aimed kick sent one crashing against the further wall. Another crunched
against the rock. Then they were on him, a frothing wave of tiny furies. A score or more, they
swarmed over him as a pack of African wild dogs swarms over a huge water-buffalo marked for
the kill. Their claws scratched and tore, their sharp fangs stabbed into his flesh. His arms
were still tightly bound to his sides, and he lashed out with his sandaled feet, swung his
shoulders like battering rams, whirled in a dervish dance. Their brittle bones cracked under
his hammer blows. They dropped from him like squashed flies. But, small as they were, he was
terrifically outnumbered. By sheer weight of numbers they dragged him down, and piled on top
of him as he lay, quivering and half-conscious, on the blood-soaked floor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Through the blackness that welled and burst in his brain, one thought held. He had fooled the
Martian, for in another instant the enraged savages, would kill him and the password to Earth's
outposts would be safe. Already, he felt their fangs at his throat.

A whirring rattle cut through the turmoil like a whip-lash, and the heap of pigmies swiftly
scattered. The man-bird from Mars was in the room. To Darl he was a blurred blueness from which
glittered those two jet beads of eyes. As from a distance he heard a rumble, its meaning beating
dully to him. "Not so easy, Thomas, not so easy. I want that signal, and by Tana, I'm going
to have it."

The Earthman felt a current of cooler air. Instinctively he drew it into his lungs. It swept
him up from the blackness that was closing in about him, brought him back to consciousness
and despair. The chattering Mercurians crowded round to commence their interrupted orgy. "For
the last time, Earthman, will you talk?"

Darl shook his head weakly and closed his eyes. In a moment--

Suddenly there was a crash of metal on metal. Another! The clangor of falling steel. Now someone
was shouting, "Darl, Darl, are you alive?" All about him were shrill twitterings, squeaking
calls, squeals and scutterings. Darl's nostrils stung with the odor of burned flesh. A door
slammed....

He opened his eyes on a confused riot, saw Jim crouched, flashing ray-gun in hand. There was
a hole in the barrier, and a mob of green-scaled Venusians were crowding through. Jim's ray
caught the last Mercurian and the dwarf vanished in a cloud of acrid, greasy smoke.

"Thank God you've come!" Darl managed to gasp. Then cool blackness closed around him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Darl Thomas lay on a cot in the headquarters tent, swathed from head to foot in an inch-thick
wrapping of bandages. Jim's theory was that if one bandage was good, two were better, and he
had cleaned out the post's slender stock. The red-haired Earthman was seated at the cot's side,
watching the taciturn Scot operating the control board. He was telling Darl of the stirring
message from M-I-T-A, and of the blanketing interference that marred the completion of the message.

"I didn't know what to do first," he continued, "whether to go down below and find out what
Ran-los was battin' about, or shoot up to you in the connin' tower with the message. Like the
thick-head I am, I picked the wrong thing. I sure got the gimmicks when I found the look-out
empty, an' a space suit an' ray-gun gone." Jim grinned mirthlessly. "I was runnin' around in
circles. You were outside, God alone knows how long. Believe me, I had you crossed off the
list! That left two of us. With a war on, somebody had to stand guard in the look-out, the
control board here had to be watched, an' somebody else had to get below.

"I was just tryin' to figure out a way o' cuttin' myself in half when I thought o' Ran-los.
For a Weenie he's got a heck of a lot of sense. I zoomed down, hauled him out o' his bunk,
scooted back up, showed him how to work the peri-telescope an' the big beam-thrower, an' left
him there on guard."

"Best thing you could have done." Darl's voice was muffled by the bandages in which his head,
as well as the rest of his body, was swathed. "He's got a head on his shoulders, that bird."

