May 12. Rany last nite and this morning. in the afternoon it cleared up. gosh i wish you cood
see the licking Beany got tonite. me and Beany went out to go up to see Pewt and make some
sweet fern sigars. Beany came over for me and went up to Pewts. on the way Beany went up an
rung his doorbell and we hid behind the fence and Mister Watson, Beany's father, came out holding
a light and shading it with his hand. the wind blew the lite out and in going in again he hit
his head an awful bump against the door. me and Beany nearly died laffing only we tride not
to laff too loud. well we went up to Pewts and Pewt had been sent to bed for something and
so we started back and met a man who said is this you Elbridge, it was pretty dark and Beany
said yes and Mister Watson grabbed us both by the collar and said, so you are the boys who
rung my doorbell and then he give Beany a rap on the side of the head and began to shake him
round lively and while he was shaking Beany up i put for home. i hid behind the fence and i
cood hear him say i will learn you to asosiate with that misable Shute boy and wast your time
ringing doorbells, and Beany was saying, o father i will never do it again. i nearly died laffing
to hear Beany a rattling round on the sidewalk. i hope Mister Watson wont tell father. i gess
he wont for he gets over his mad pretty quick. every time i think of Beanys legs flying round
in the air i giggle rite out and when i think of Mister Watson bumping his head i nearly die.
sometimes i think it pays to be tuff.

May 13, 186- Keene and Cele have got some new crokay slippers. you bet they feel pretty big
about it.

May 14. nothing particular today.

May 15. Went in swimming today. the water was pretty cold but i swum acros the river twise.

May 16. the suckers have come. Potter Gorham caught three yesterday. me and Potter was going
yesterday after school but father woodent let me becaus i dident split my kindlings.

May 19. had a auful toothake today and had to go down to docter Pitman and he pulled it out.
i tell you it hurt. Docter Pitman said the roots must have reached way to the back of my neck.
Beany went with me and then told all round that i hollered. you jest wait Beany.

May 21. erly this afternoon me and Fatty Melcher got some real segars at Henry Simsons store
and went down behind old man Churchills store and smoked them. we were both auful sick and
laid there all the afternoon. when i went home i walked wobbly and mother asked me if i was
sick and she put me to bed and was going to send for the docter, but father came in and when
he found out what aled me he laffed and said it served me rite. then after supper he set out
on the steps rite under my window and smoked a old pipe and i cood smell it and i thought i
shood die. then mother asked him to go away and he laffed and said all rite, but he gessed
i had enuf for one day and she said she gessed so and i gess so too. he said if it hadent made
me sick he wood have licked me.

i dont see why it is so, father swears sometimes when he hits his thum with a hammer and once
when he was in the dark he was walking towards the door with his arms out to feel for the door,
one arm went on one side of the door and the other arm on the other side and he hit his nose
a fearful bump rite on the ege of the door, and i wish you cood have heard him swear, well
if i swear he licks me, and he smokes and if i do he says he will lick me and he dont go to
church and if i dont go he says he will lick me. O dear i gess i wont smoke enny more.

May 22. Went in swimming today twise, once down to the raceway and once up to the gravel.

