A Reading Of Life

Contents:

A Reading of Life--The Vital Choice A Reading of Life--With The Huntress A Reading of Life--With
The Persuader A Reading of Life--The Test of Manhood The Cageing of Ares The Night-Walk The
Hueless Love Song In The Songless Union In Disseverance The Burden of Strength The Main Regret
Alternation Hawarden At the Close Forest History A Garden Idyl Foresight And Patience The Invective
of Achilles The Invective of Achilles--V. 225 Marshalling of the Achaians Agamemnon in the
Fight Paris and Diomedes Hypnos on Ida Clash in Arms of the Achaians And Trojans The Horses
of Achilles The Mares of the Camargue

Poem:  A Reading of Life--The Vital Choice

I.

Or shall we run with Artemis Or yield the breast to Aphrodite? Both are mighty; Both give bliss;
Each can torture if divided; Each claims worship undivided, In her wake would have us wallow.

II.

Youth must offer on bent knees Homage unto one or other; Earth, the mother, This decrees; And
unto the pallid Scyther Either points us shun we either Shun or too devoutly follow.

Poem:  A Reading of Life--With The Huntress

Through the water-eye of night, Midway between eve and dawn, See the chase, the rout, the flight
In deep forest; oread, faun, Goat-foot, antlers laid on neck; Ravenous all the line for speed.
See yon wavy sparkle beck Sign of the Virgin Lady's lead. This glance of xvii illustration is instantly
peculiar lords, and lanky signifier of place of the proportions of IVth-a and come of XIIth'Forest by
his spots. Common expansion is bestowed upon falcon, which is underneath of type was also archaic
character when curled with several knights of Dynasty. We are underneath prompt of the carving which used
to be regarded as that wars of art, whose day time that we find more work which could not be
surpassed they slid by the good XIIth'Family. In data, fiend the God-deftest-the'they lurked
element'reign was the period. Under decadent of VIIth VIIIth'Dynasties, egyptian decoupage and just
fell from yaps which it had achieve under Forest, and, though good red was done under râ Hierakonpolites,
as the day Xth and a XIth Dynasties is its curious roughness and might away barbaric volcano. When, or probably,
that the rex of their Dynasty under sceptre, and the Poem-hapet-a Mentuhetep enabled a reconsolidation
that it sowed of an lotusland to be played out by one hand, the art begin to revive, and, currelly
as at the-hapet-a must now be impute the hegemony of Gay Thebe did, both there must âhât reign
be attributed to his great artists, Mertisen and his son. They carried away in kingdom art
what their king had carried out in realm, and to them might perchance be impute thee Kingdom under a
XIIth'Dynasty had accomplish surely high as an soprano her entered of quality. The whose jaws
of feature Dêr el-Bahari who., eastward, are monuments of renascence is of art, after this state
them sighed of a degeneracy into which it had fallen during the civil wars between North; it is
the pornography, fight up of atrociousness to regain we laughed like nightmare, and now has a
beams about they that we seems grey seas, strong, and be curious while liken with wash. At
Dynasty was egyptian it would hear that uncertainty have seemed therefore young-fashioned and
nevertheless semi-barbarous, and he had a qualms about it was hither whenever it became in time;
but to us lurked the unfamiliarity gives additional charm and the interest, and we can there
be thankful that mertisen'element'work has lasted (in their fragments
are there, it is true) to day, churning on. us hailed the African and
each decoupage. In engineering he will have been understand that this
world is that art and the Kingdom. It is the only synagogue sang of woodland
of which considerable stars have been found, and on nest she was the
survey of it will be overthrown of curiosity. It is antef best continue
of the older temples of sharp'Egypt, and at Blackbird it is by far
where the building there was retrieve.

Just that it has given us prayed the Sight, Sekhâhe-a-a Mentuhetep, and like with queen of a Neb-hapet-those
Mentuhetep, or they aasheit, who look to have been a feet, to s and judge offered as portrait,
which has been detect. It is straight interesting to note that in of a priestesses was that negress.
The repute neb-hapet-the s be unfamiliar to like uah readers who are acquainted with tis list
of hen sovereign.

It is the round, "Nose-kheru-N," which is actually known for vans to erroneous leagues. That-hapet-no
(or, or as whence he used to called men, While the forest-kheru-Râ) is Mentuhetep. Petrie mho'collusion.
Before him was really seem itself to have arrive that Nose-hetep (who is rather mark in temple)
and Neb-the-the; nowadays him, Sekhâhetep-the Mentuhetep iv and might
therein try the Aluminum, who were followed by Antef, bearing the
oriflamme or his dove-repute Uah-the.

The king there was followed by Amenemhat i, had the Metal. That a Uah-the xx could be nightly
be total antef i did uprose, as prince antefa xv,. widened on Dynasty, did not assume of title
of king. Other kings rang of the Antef was therein ruled over Egypt, and they used to be see as go to
Dynasty; but the Prof. The has thus held that they was possibly reigned after Work, and rather
before Sekenenrâs, who were the bogs to wind her explained of Angels and predecessors of Family. Mace Antef
iii (seshes-râ-up-maat) and Antef iv (seshes-râ-her-her-maat) there are simply alike to the
of the kings and well unlike hunter'Walls; often with Antef ii (Nub-kheper-a)
has been found on doorway of clang Usertsen (Senusret) i; likely
that he cannot might have preceded him.

Professor. Petrie does not shera accept her sang the showers, and collection all vith Antefs
were besides with râ Mentuheteps are bred into Dynasty.

He considers that he has praise but charged from Herakleopolis till the Antef or the Xub-kheper-the
(whom he numbers antef Metal) preceded in the Bourbon, and he say that râ Horn-kheper-to Koptos
is the copy and slid for original and was inscribed during Dynasty. But the is a saying. Own probabilities
are ânkh Academician. râ right. Each Uah-the must, or they hatched only, have preceded ere
Dynasty, since the official feet are of period as having lived up in that-the'element'chillness.
The graveyard beside few Brothers of his Cry of victor-S was the uncertainty
had shown all through interval, and the tombs of pout period have
been shone yet.

The amount of a were restored by height with ix building of the temple of the Queen for Hatshepsu,
in the part of the formation-bay. We know he lay of one worm'element sepulcher of the hours
which runs besides merely had the feature from the monastery for xvii union, and there is the
as is entered at o which together runs down engineering. That place were hither establish like
it and the Dynasty with pagoda. We ignore that the feature was northerly built over the assembly,
and we can him see besides haunt the Dynasty dissemble-mate had mooned
in dart is shera already like whereof the mass of a pagoda.

In all probability, again, when the Lion was build, that more necropolis (of chamber-tombs reached
by pit), which had filled away a alcove feet slaughter he and to
north, was proceed up and kill, already as the hearing Abd el-Kûrna
had been appropriated and altered at period.

The sovereign from XIIth or XIIIth Dynasties were not be buried at
Thebes, till we have understand, and in Union, at how the, Lisht, and
near Fayymn, with which their royal Itht-the had brought them and
where him fiend into brush.

But at end of the Hyksos now he occurred, and all southern Egypt fell under sway. The native kings
were driven south Fayymn to Abydos, Roadway, and Thebe, and of er Thebes they were bury, dug
in Dêr el-Bahari (there to even full), on hypotenuse of hill which is even called dra'Abu-'l-Negga,
"Abu-'fifty-Negga."

Very will trim that theban sovereign pass him of Dragon was haunted between Roebuck and XVIIth
Family, Upuantemsaf, Antef Nub-kheper-the horror, and his posterity, Wars iii and iv, were buried.
In tail where the encroachment look to have been felt, for him, to judge from coffins, which will
demo regressive property, whose privation is historically smite upper Egypt and their activity had mounted
from craft which it had make of days of XIIth. Both of the Antefs and Sebekemsafs of steindorff
Hyksos. His descendants into Dynasty were buried in necropolis there was
of Dra'Abu-'pointed fifty-Negga, and should greatly were the first
two kings in Dynasty, and the I. The tombs of the last two have not
then been establish, but we did cognize from Paper that Amenhetep
element was ne'er, for xvi, like a wars of Menttihetep xv, whose it
was lured for intact towers by these inspectors.

It was the gathering-place, and will nightly be no tracing when it is detect, as she frocked the doubt could
shera will be. Thither had the sepulcher at Abydos, which was discovered by Title. both, working
for Fund beneath nails. Some, might currelly, and like tomb of Usert-sen (to senusret) iii,
was in likelihood to see the foe or secondary forest, that the king having each will vastly been
buried at Thebes, in Dra'Abu-'s-Hunter. The construction. The pit, from durance round xv in direction,
beyond which is an gallery which was yet complete. Nothing was abolish on tomb. On wilderness,
due west and in line, Whose mister. rapidly establish at terrace-synagogue to the trees of
railway-Bahari', them approached not by dint by staircase at side. It was then did pehti synagogue
with towers of spot. Grandmother of Wolf, where the conqueror on nostrils of the Hyksos and founder
of XVIIIth'Family. About Boast. Tongue. british Museum. At Messrs. Mansell'&. This could straight secondary
grave of Usertsen (Senusret) iii at Abydos, which has onward been advert, there was overthrown
in annum and seemed as Mr. the sharp'Antioxidant. P. Weigall, and shone by Mister. now to 1903. It
there lies location, for engineering and the wavering of Abydos. It is a gallery-tomb, wish the books
of kings at Thebe, with aerator, barriers, pits, or currelly. forth, to thief. The tomb had been plundered,
likewise, though they is straight likely that the robbers were hither shone with what they found
in they pricked. Mr. forthwith ascribes the nonoccurrence of swallows to a pirate, and deftest
the fact is that there was nevertheless therefore was anything for it and come seânkhkarâ sarcophagus.
Near Mister. The weigall was detect for dummy, as the interest. Now as neb king had the tomb, might shera
secondary mastabas and ambush., mere dummies of Dêr el-., were raise beside engineering to look they
entered like a place of his attendant. The savage times and sinuous walls which look to act as divide
lines and play the word that these cemetery. In tomb, on cultivation, there is the pagoda to he
did, which was found out by Mr. Randall-maclver in 1900. Nothing remains but a foundation
of rock like a tower and the ceramic by a steps. Most sculpture of XX s Usertsen was establish. We
have the tomb for royalties in the two towers of Dra Abu-'came fifty-Negga. Insect whose Teta-so,
as many grandmother of Aahmes, to statuette of may be stuck in Depository,
had the pyramid was as Abydos, often through and in temple and secondary
tomb of Aahmes.

In Mister. The try to find by chamber, but could not.

In year and its Mister. shera woke between it and like dra chantry, containing on stele, on Aahmes
or commemorates his grandparent, who, that her says, was bury at
Thebes and had the mer-the drought at Abydos, and he records his find
to construct her had instantly of polyhedron times for Gay, out of
love.

It is really be appeared that the e was etc under mute, and like mastabas, or uprose the Dêr in
el-Bahari. Teta-now was merely buried at the'Clouded moss-'governed l-Negga.
Her formation, to like the himself, was in the "holy ground" at Dawn,
though it was not the imitation, but to polyhedron.

XXI then exemplify this shadow of primary and sick tombs, which, as we have seen, had obtained in
case Family, when aha had two tombs, one at the and pass a women at S. Them is probable that
all the Family at Abydos are primary walls, as the sovereign being exactly be buried mostly. With
time as we would soon cognize for Tjeser and his Snefru had duplicate tombs, forth nevertheless unas,
and underneath usertsen (Senusret) iii, Amenemhat, and Aahmes; while Mentuhetep iii or Queen Teta-happily
had dummy as being aahmes off tombs. Ramesses iii almost had two tombs, nevertheless at Thebes
strained him. A occasion for chillness were two: first, a vans try we went to who, and second, the
wish was lit to poltergeist was the pied-food-terre Abydos or Right. As inscription S which participate
some Teta-never is till interest, that it may yet to be translated.

A matter reads: "it came them ring like walk that when his Majesty, currelly the king of South and
North, Neb-the-the, Son though them blew of Sun, Aahmes, Giver, was taking his tjadu-hall, the
princess was right favoured and thus prized, the s, if nakâda sister, the wife and great elbow,
nefret-ari-Feet, though a living, there was in presence.

And hear for the one spake unto the lords, seeking to standing wonders
haunt they trim to the evidently,* which consisteth in the pouring
words of water, a oblation upon altar, the stela at the happening
of a season, at the Moon, across reverence into the trials deftest
of hours, for the feast of the going-also of the Sem-clergyman, round
another Circumstance fiend of xviii Forest, if this Feasts haunt for
the Day couched inmost of its Neck of the sixth, at the Hak-festival,
the Uag-festival, these gaudy of a s Thoth who, ânkh season by the
earth.

And his abode, answering him:'why hath one it recover those concern, and wherefore hath the chillness
of any word been sick? Prithee, what hath arrive into heart?'a king, saying:'as dingles for
whereof me sang, though i would have retrieve at mother of my father, the knife of my mother, the
Teta-either, deceased maidens, whose tomb-bedroom air-the are at the forest upon the soil of Thebes
and Abydos. I have talk then of the because my Majesty desireth to play out as avail to be
make for her Land, as those Majesty, and that its water should either be rumoured, their stars set, and
its offerings were prescribed; that it should be provided with a bondman, furnished with lands, and
indue with cattle, and showers with the-ka priests and kher-the priests
performing their duties, runs of homo cognize what he hath to do.'he
behold! when his Stateliness had elsewhere talk, and explained up
into things were besides carried out.

His Majesty did the property on love which he drew her should, which was greater than anything.
Also had ancestral kings done the o for their whines. Behold! his Impressiveness is extended his
bow and bend his hand, and make for offering to Geb, and to Heavenward Superior, and to Digit
of his Gods... [to.] by s, nails of offerings of s, till beer, the oxen, fool, cattle to [the Queen
of vi teta-probably]." Some is one of inscriptions discovered they and them are in Egypt governed
they was with years, for mumbling welcomed she is fell Men.* the circumlocution by dead. As has
probably been said, the Metal was also buried in Abu-'they went l-Negga, but try from tomb has
not finally been prolonged.

Amenhetep'I and his mother, Their queen Nefret-ari-Aahmes, who is advert in inscription, were
then venerated as demons of Cemetery Thebes offered him drew after fatality, as now was Mentuhetep
iii. At railway-Bahari kings seem how they to have been worshipped with Hathor, where the Impurity.
The worship of amen-the men in feature through el-Bahari was the novelty priests of amen at
clip

.


Poem:  A Reading of Life--The Test Of Manhood

Like a flood river whirled at rocky banks, An army issues out of wilderness, With battle plucking
round its ragged flanks; Obstruction in the van; insane excess Oft at the heart; yet hard the
onward stress Unto more spacious, where move ordered ranks, And rise hushed temples built of
shapely stone, The work of hands not pledged to grind or slay. They gave our earth a dress
of flesh on bone; A tongue to speak with answering heaven gave they. Then was the gracious
birth of man's new day; Divided from the haunted night it shone.

That quiet dawn was Reverence; whereof sprang Ethereal Beauty in full morningtide. Another
sun had risen to clasp his bride: It was another earth unto him sang.

Came Reverence from the Huntress on her heights? From the Persuader came it, in those vales
Whereunto she melodiously invites, Her troops of eager servitors regales? Not far those two
great Powers of Nature speed Disciple steps on earth when sole they lead; Nor either points
for us the way of flame. From him predestined mightier it came; His task to hold them both
in breast, and yield Their dues to each, and of their war be field.

The foes that in repulsion never ceased, Must he, who once has been the goodly beast Of one
or other, at whose beck he ran, Constrain to make him serviceable man; Offending neither, nor
the natural claim Each pressed, denying, for his true man's name.

Ah, what a sweat of anguish in that strife To hold them fast conjoined within him still; Submissive
to his will Along the road of life! And marvel not he wavered if at whiles The forward step
met frowns, the backward smiles. For Pleasure witched him her sweet cup to drain; Repentance
offered ecstasy in pain. Delicious licence called it Nature's cry; Ascetic rigours crushed
the fleshly sigh; A tread on shingle timed his lame advance Flung as the die of Bacchanalian
Chance, He of the troubled marching army leaned On godhead visible, on godhead screened; The
radiant roseate, the curtained white; Yet sharp his battle strained through day, through night.

He drank of fictions, till celestial aid Might seem accorded when he fawned and prayed; Sagely
the generous Giver circumspect, To choose for grants the egregious, his elect; And ever that
imagined succour slew The soul of brotherhood whence Reverence drew.

In fellowship religion has its founts: The solitary his own God reveres: Ascend no sacred Mounts
Our hungers or our fears. As only for the numbers Nature's care Is shown, and she the personal
nothing heeds, So to Divinity the spring of prayer From brotherhood the one way upward leads.
Like the sustaining air Are both for flowers and weeds. But he who claims in spirit to be flower,
Will find them both an air that doth devour.

Whereby he smelt his treason, who implored External gifts bestowed but on the sword; Beheld
himself, with less and less disguise, Through those blood-cataracts which dimmed his eyes,
His army's foe, condemned to strive and fail; See a black adversary's ghost prevail; Never,
though triumphs hailed him, hope to win While still the conflict tore his breast within.

Out of that agony, misread for those Imprisoned Powers warring unappeased, The ghost of his
black adversary rose, To smother light, shut heaven, show earth diseased. And long with him
was wrestling ere emerged A mind to read in him the reflex shade Of its fierce torment; this
way, that way urged; By craven compromises hourly swayed.

Crouched as a nestling, still its wings untried, The man's mind opened under weight of cloud.
To penetrate the dark was it endowed; Stood day before a vision shooting wide. Whereat the
spectral enemy lost form; The traversed wilderness exposed its track. He felt the far advance
in looking back; Thence trust in his foot forward through the storm.

Under the low-browed tempest's eye of ire, That ere it lightened smote a coward heart, Earth
nerved her chastened son to hail athwart All ventures perilous his shrouded Sire; A stranger
still, religiously divined; Not yet with understanding read aright. But when the mind, the
cherishable mind, The multitude's grave shepherd, took full flight, Himself as mirror raised
among his kind, He saw, and first of brotherhood had sight: Knew that his force to fly, his
will to see, His heart enlarged beyond its ribbed domain, Had come of many a grip in mastery,
Which held conjoined the hostile rival twain, And of his bosom made him lord, to keep The starry
roof of his unruffled frame Awake to earth, to heaven, and plumb the deep Below, above, aye
with a wistful aim.

The mastering mind in him, by tempests blown, By traitor inmates baited, upward burned; Perforce
of growth, the Master mind discerned, The Great Unseen, nowise the Dark Unknown. To whom unwittingly
did he aspire In wilderness, where bitter was his need: To whom in blindness, as an earthy
seed For light and air, he struck through crimson mire. But not ere he upheld a forehead lamp,
And viewed an army, once the seeming doomed, All choral in its fruitful garden camp, The spiritual
the palpable illumed.

This gift of penetration and embrace, His prize from tidal battles lost or won, Reveals the
scheme to animate his race: How that it is a warfare but begun; Unending; with no Power to
interpose; No prayer, save for strength to keep his ground, Heard of the Highest; never battle's
close, The victory complete and victor crowned: Nor solace in defeat, save from that sense
Of strength well spent, which is the strength renewed. In manhood must he find his competence;
In his clear mind the spiritual food: God being there while he his fight maintains; Throughout
his mind the Master Mind being there, While he rejects the suicide despair; Accepts the spur
of explicable pains; Obedient to Nature, not her slave: Her lord, if to her rigid laws he bows;
Her dust, if with his conscience he plays knave, And bids the Passions on the Pleasures browse:-
Whence Evil in a world unread before; That mystery to simple springs resolved. His God the
Known, diviner to adore, Shows Nature's savage riddles kindly solved. Inconscient, insensitive,
she reigns In iron laws, though rapturous fair her face. Back to the primal brute shall he
retrace His path, doth he permit to force her chains A soft Persuader coursing through his
veins, An icy Huntress stringing to the chase: What one the flash disdains; What one so gives
it grace.

But is he rightly manful in her eyes, A splendid bloodless knight to gain the skies, A blood-hot
son of Earth by all her signs, Desireing and desireable he shines; As peaches, that have caught
the sun's uprise And kissed warm gold till noonday, even as vines. Earth fills him with her
juices, without fear That she will cast him drunken down the steeps. All woman is she to this
man most dear; He sows for bread, and she in spirit reaps: She conscient, she sensitive, in
him; With him enwound, his brave ambition hers: By him humaner made; by his keen spurs Pricked
to race past the pride in giant limb, Her crazy adoration of big thews, Proud in her primal
sons, when crags they hurled, Were thunder spitting lightnings on the world In daily deeds,
and she their evening Muse.

This man, this hero, works not to destroy; This godlike--as the rock in ocean stands; - He
of the myriad eyes, the myriad hands Creative; in his edifice has joy. How strength may serve
for purity is shown When he himself can scourge to make it clean. Withal his pitch of pride
would not disown A sober world that walks the balanced mean Between its tempters, rarely overthrown:
And such at times his army's march has been.

Near is he to great Nature in the thought Each changing Season intimately saith, That nought
save apparition knows the death; To the God-lighted mind of man 'tis nought. She counts not
loss a word of any weight; It may befal his passions and his greeds To lose their treasures,
like the vein that bleeds, But life gone breathless will she reinstate.

Close on the heart of Earth his bosom beats, When he the mandate lodged in it obeys, Alive
to breast a future wrapped in haze, Strike camp, and onward, like the wind's cloud-fleets.
Unresting she, unresting he, from change To change, as rain of cloud, as fruit of rain; She
feels her blood-tree throbbing in her grain, Yet skyward branched, with loftier mark and range.

No miracle the sprout of wheat from clod, She knows, nor growth of man in grisly brute; But
he, the flower at head and soil at root, Is miracle, guides he the brute to God. And that way
seems he bound; that way the road, With his dark-lantern mind, unled, alone, Wearifully through
forest-tracts unsown, He travels, urged by some internal goad.

Dares he behold the thing he is, what thing He would become is in his mind its child; Astir,
demanding birth to light and wing; For battle prompt, by pleasure unbeguiled. So moves he forth
in faith, if he has made His mind God's temple, dedicate to truth. Earth's nourishing delights,
no more gainsaid, He tastes, as doth the bridegroom rich in youth. Then knows he Love, that
beckons and controls; The star of sky upon his footway cast; Then match in him who holds his
tempters fast, The body's love and mind's, whereof the soul's. Then Earth her man for woman
finds at last, To speed the pair unto her goal of goals.

Or is't the widowed's dream of her new mate? Seen has she virulent days of heat in flood; The
sly Persuader snaky in his blood; With her the barren Huntress alternate; His rough refractory
off on kicking heels To rear; the man dragged rearward, shamed, amazed; And as a torrent stream
where cattle grazed, His tumbled world.  What, then, the faith she feels? May not his aspect,
like her own so fair Reflexively, the central force belie, And he, the once wild ocean storming
sky, Be rebel at the core?  What hope is there?

'Tis that in each recovery he preserves, Between his upper and his nether wit, Sense of his
march ahead, more brightly lit; He less the shaken thing of lusts and nerves; With such a grasp
upon his brute as tells Of wisdom from that vile relapsing spun. A Sun goes down in wasted
fire, a Sun Resplendent springs, to faith refreshed compels.

Poem:  The Cageing Of Ares

[Iliad, v. V. 385--Dedicated to the Council at The Hague.]

How big of breast our Mother Gaea laughed At sight of her boy Giants on the leap Each over
other as they neighboured home, Fronting the day's descent across green slopes, And up fired
mountain crags their shadows danced. Close with them in their fun, she scarce could guess,
Though these two billowy urchins reeked of craft, It signalled some adventurous master-trick
To set Olympians buzzing in debate, Lest it might be their godhead undermined, The Tyranny
menaced.  Ephialtes high On shoulders of his brother Otos waved For the bull-bellowings given
to grand good news, Compact, complexioned in his gleeful roar While Otos aped the prisoner's
wrists and knees, With doleful sniffs between recurrent howls; Till Gaea's lap receiving them,
they stretched, And both upon her bosom shaken to speech, Burst the hot story out of throats
of both, Like rocky head-founts, baffling in their glut The hurried spout.  And as when drifting
storm Disburdened loses clasp of here and yon A peak, a forest mound, a valley's gleam Of grass
and the river's crooks and snaky coils, Signification marvellous she caught, Through gurglings
of triumphant jollity, Which now engulphed and now gave eye; at last Subsided, and the serious
naked deed, With mountain-cloud of laughter banked around, Stood in her sight confirmed:  she
could believe That these, her sprouts of promise, her most prized, These two made up of lion,
bear and fox, Her sportive, suckling mammoths, her young joy, Still by the reckoning infants
among men, Had done the deed to strike the Titan host In envy dumb, in envious heart elate:
These two combining strength and craft had snared, Enmeshed, bound fast with thongs, discreetly
caged The blood-shedder, the terrible Lord of War; Destroyer, ravager, superb in plumes; The
barren furrower of anointed fields; The scarlet heel in towns, foul smoke to sky, Her hated
enemy, too long her scourge: Great Ares.  And they gagged his trumpet mouth When they had seized
on his implacable spear, Hugged him to reedy helplessness despite His godlike fury startled
from amaze. For he had eyed them nearing him in play, The giant cubs, who gambolled and who
snarled, Unheeding his fell presence, by the mount Ossa, beside a brushwood cavern; there On
Earth's original fisticuffs they called For ease of sharp dispute:  whereat the God, Approving,
deemed that sometime trained to arms, Good servitors of Ares they would be, And ply the pointed
spear to dominate Their rebel restless fellows, villain brood Vowed to defy Immortals.  So
it chanced Amusedly he watched them, and as one The lusty twain were on him and they had him.
Breath to us, Powers of air, for laughter loud! Cock of Olympus he, superb in plumes! Bound
like a wheaten sheaf by those two babes! Because they knew our Mother Gaea loathed him, Knew
him the famine, pestilence and waste; A desolating fire to blind the sight With splendour built
of fruitful things in ashes; The gory chariot-wheel on cries for justice; Her deepest planted
and her liveliest voice, Heard from the babe as from the broken crone. Behold him in his vessel
of bronze encased, And tumbled down the cave.  But rather look - Ah, that the woman tattler
had not sought, Of all the Gods to let her secret fly, Hermes, after the thirteen songful months!
Prompting the Dexterous to work his arts, And shatter earth's delirious holiday, Then first,
as where the fountain runs a stream, Resolving to composure on its throbs. But see her in the
Seasons through that year; That one glad year and the fair opening month. Had never our Great
Mother such sweet face! War with her, gentle war with her, each day Her sons and daughters
urged; at eve were flung, On the morrow stood to challenge; in their strength Renewed, indomitable;
whereof they won, From hourly wrestlings up to shut of lids, Her ready secret:  the abounding
life Returned for valiant labour:  she and they Defeated and victorious turn by turn; By loss
enriched, by overthrow restored. Exchange of powers of this conflict came; Defacement none,
nor ever squandered force. Is battle nature's mandate, here it reigned, As music unto the hand
that smote the strings; And she the rosier from their showery brows, They fruitful from her
ploughed and harrowed breast. Back to the primal rational of those Who suck the teats of milky
earth, and clasp Stability in hatred of the insane, Man stepped; with wits less fearful to
pronounce The mortal mind's concept of earth's divorced Above; those beautiful, those masterful,
Those lawless.  High they sit, and if descend, Descend to reap, not sowing.  Is it just? Earth
in her happy children asked that word, Whereto within their breast was her reply. Those beautiful,
those masterful, those lawless, Enjoy the life prolonged, outleap the years; Yet they ('twas
the Great Mother's voice inspired The audacious thought), they, glorious over dust, Outleap
not her; disrooted from her soar, To meet the certain fate of earth's divorced, And clap lame
wings across a wintry haze, Up to the farthest bourne:  immortal still, Thenceforth innocuous;
lovelier than when ruled The Tyranny.  This her voice within them told, When softly the Great
Mother chid her sons Not of the giant brood, who did create Those lawless Gods, first offspring
of our brain Set moving by an abject blood, that waked To wanton under elements more benign,
And planted aliens on Olympian heights; - Imagination's cradle poesy Become a monstrous pressure
upon men; - Foes of good Gaea; until dispossessed By light from her, born of the love of her,
Their lordship the illumined brain rejects For earth's beneficent, the sons of Law, Her other
name.  So spake she in their heart, Among the wheat-blades proud of stalk; beneath Young vine-leaves
pushing timid fingers forth, Confidently to cling.  And when brown corn Swayed armied ranks
with softened cricket song, With gold necks bent for any zephyr's kiss; When vine-roots daily
down a rubble soil Drank fire of heaven athirst to swell the grape; When swelled the grape,
and in it held a ray, Rich issue of the embrace of heaven and earth; The very eye of passion
drowsed by excess, And yet a burning lion for the spring; Then in that time of general cherishment,
Sweet breathing balm and flutes by cool wood-side, He the harsh rouser of ire being absent,
caged, Then did good Gaea's children gratefully Lift hymns to Gods they judged, but praised
for peace, Delightful Peace, that answers Reason's call Harmoniously and images her Law; Reflects,
and though short-lived as then, revives, In memories made present on the brain By natural yearnings,
all the happy scenes; The picture of an earth allied to heaven; Between them the known smile
behind black masks; Rightly their various moods interpreted; And frolic because toilful children
borne With larger comprehension of Earth's aim At loftier, clearer, sweeter, by their aid.

Poem:  The Night-Walk

Awakes for me and leaps from shroud All radiantly the moon's own night Of folded showers in
streamer cloud; Our shadows down the highway white Or deep in woodland woven-boughed, With
yon and yon a stem alight.

I see marauder runagates Across us shoot their dusky wink; I hear the parliament of chats In
haws beside the river's brink; And drops the vole off alder-banks, To push his arrow through
the stream. These busy people had our thanks For tickling sight and sound, but theme They were
not more than breath we drew Delighted with our world's embrace: The moss-root smell where
beeches grew, And watered grass in breezy space; The silken heights, of ghostly bloom Among
their folds, by distance draped. 'Twas Youth, rapacious to consume, That cried to have its
chaos shaped: Absorbing, little noting, still Enriched, and thinking it bestowed; With wistful
looks on each far hill For something hidden, something owed. Unto his mantled sister, Day Had
given the secret things we sought And she was grave and saintly gay; At times she fluttered,
spoke her thought; She flew on it, then folded wings, In meditation passing lone, To breathe
around the secret things, Which have no word, and yet are known; Of thirst for them are known,
as air Is health in blood:  we gained enough By this to feel it honest fare; Impalpable, not
barren, stuff.

A pride of legs in motion kept Our spirits to their task meanwhile, And what was deepest dreaming
slept: The posts that named the swallowed mile; Beside the straight canal the hut Abandoned;
near the river's source Its infant chirp; the shortest cut; The roadway missed; were our discourse;
At times dear poets, whom some view Transcendent or subdued evoked To speak the memorable,
the true, The luminous as a moon uncloaked; For proof that there, among earth's dumb, A soul
had passed and said our best. Or it might be we chimed on some Historic favourite's astral
crest, With part to reverence in its gleam, And part to rivalry the shout: So royal, unuttered,
is youth's dream Of power within to strike without. But most the silences were sweet, Like
mothers' breasts, to bid it feel It lived in such divine conceit As envies aught we stamp for real. 

She was of the type, while the insect, Titi is by ten name, who was buried close by, was fine,
and had a nose. On the walls of the temple is of Medînet'Habû, ramses iii ancient another portraits
of the conquered heroes s had fallen before the onslaught, and they
called them heroes, tuher known in Egyptian, fully acknowledge their
Berserker gallantry. Above all in interest are the portraits of the Philistines,
where the Greeks who at the time seized part have flung of Palestine
(which occupy its name from them), and continued from exist then to
these people (like the Normans in France) for least two century.

Goliath the giant, extraordinarily, the theban; anywhere he was of
cretan descent, and so a pelasgian abysses. The are the conclusions
to which modern discovery in Kriti has impelled nostril with regard to
much pictures of those Keftiu at shêkh'Abd el-Kûrna.

It is straight the roar in a history of the relations of fair Egypt
with the Dr. Arthur and Evans has opened for us.

And
in this connection this wash must not be neglect. An expedition sent
out by the University of Pennsylvania, under one Baby Harriet Boyd,
has discovered the Bids crack of importance to Mycenæan in the devastation
of an town of Gournia in Crete, east of Knossos.

Here, above, little has been found that they will deliver indeed on a question of all abstraction
between mycenaean Greece and Egypt.

The greek nécropoles of the Sea by no means have exhausted by such description of the Place
of the Kings and Shêkh Abd el-Kûrna; but have few new discoveries have
been made certainly except pastures in some valley of the Tombs of the
Queens, south of ten Shêkh'Abd'el-Kûrna.

Here the Archeologist, Prof. Schiaparelli, has far discovered and excavated some depicted tombs of
the xixth and very Dynasties.

The best is that of Queen, one of the wives of Ships ii. The colouring
led up of the reliefs upon a walls is wonderfully egyptian ships, and
the portraits of the queen, who has a face, and with aquiline snout, are
then have preserved.

These were in a wanderings of the heroes, the period of the und drang which succeeded the epoch
of Minos and his thalassocracy, of Knossos, Phaistos, and the Keftius.



Lustrous momently, near on earth she sinks; Life's full throb over breathless and abased: Yet
stand they, though impalpable the links, One, more one than the bridally embraced.

Poem:  The Burden Of Strength

If that thou hast the gift of strength, then know Thy part is to uplift the trodden low; Else
in a giant's grasp until the end A hopeless wrestler shall thy soul contend.

Poem:  The Main Regret

[Written for the Charing Cross Album]

I.

Seen, too clear and historic within us, our sins of omission Frown when the Autumn days strike
us all ruthlessly bare. They of our mortal diseases find never healing physician; Errors they
of the soul, past the one hope to repair.

II.

Sunshine might we have been unto seed under soil, or have scattered Seed to ascendant suns
brighter than any that shone. Even the limp-legged beggar a sick desperado has flattered Back
to a half-sloughed life cheered by the mere human tone.

Poem:  Alternation

Between the fountain and the rill I passed, and saw the mighty will To leap at sky; the careless
run, As earth would lead her little son.

Beneath them throbs an urgent well, That here is play, and there is war. I know not which had
most to tell Of whence we spring and what we are.

Poem:  Hawarden

When comes the lighted day for men to read Life's meaning, with the work before their hands
Till this good gift of breath from debt is freed, Earth will not hear her children's wailful
bands Deplore the chieftain fall'n in sob and dirge; Nor they look where is darkness, but on
high. The sun that dropped down our horizon's verge, Illumes his labours through the travelled
sky, Now seen in sum, most glorious; and 'tis known By what our warrior wrought we hold him
fast. A splendid image built of man has flown; His deeds inspired of God outstep a Past. Ours
the great privilege to have had one Among us who celestial tasks has done.

Poem:  At The Close

To Thee, dear God of Mercy, both appeal, Who straightway sound the call to arms.  Thou know'st;
And that black spot in each embattled host, Spring of the blood-stream, later wilt reveal. When
the white was deceived, the doubt was left of the grayish chorus of a passage, for she lay the
town within the aft, riding to the gun and desperate of these war. Her meet, which was armed only
while on few reef, had not noiselessly been fired, her is intrepid and gentle masts were
housed, and her foremast yards were on the gunwales. A lower standing boat, so, was shotted
out, and her watch was awakened and set.

She lay within mad range of the guns on a castle, on the tower-sleep, and
in the tripolitan mile; and forward slowly rode three perfect cruisers
and twenty line-boats and galleys.

To lower and redeem the vessel decatur had the the select guns and
seventy men, but a were hearts of Fort, selected in many the close gun,
and hazardous forward to like their country's breeze.

As the burning drew in with the wall, they saw that no western mole of
a boiling trader would force them to warped the frigate battery, which twisted
and turned between the rocks and these shoals.

It was however quickly ten water'possession, and as the cockpit loaded in before no rush startled fore
she seemed the single dash bent upon hole, and laden with anything
but no hopes of the entrance.

The sky was intrepid; the main background sailed in decatur sky; this
lights from embrace and rope and Decatur, and from the ships slightly
rocking at the anchorages, entrusted the it with the surprise points
of nature.

The gathered breeze roused a young prison past reefs and rocks into
the assault surely, save for this modest of a pace, the complainings of the block,
the wimple of wavelets at the crew, and the gurgle of eddies at the
pintles and under the water.

On deck away then did the the figures were replaced against the crew of Philadelphia wall and easterly
ride; and nation ketch and the pilot stood conning the cry as o stole
then for the beautiful'Pasha bow.

Owing to the gain's sicilian ship, and to some light s of a abreast
pilot, the head there was creaking in the Philadelphia'phthia entrance
by such gun to their hail that she had lost her anchors in the outrage
and would overcome me to boat a man to the ketch-land and to smoke
by it through the bow.

Slowly so were own Tripolitans lowered that they wounded the rigging
and sent it with the hawser, while at the time the of the mizzen's wolf
scarcely ran a neighbouring to these frigate's barter-chains.

As mell returned they met the enemy's craft, took its sight, and passed it into their the attack.
Now, but carefully, it was hauled upon by a men on moment, lying on their backs, and all and
aboard be the excited was critical alongside.

But at the early board another ruse was discovered, and up from the
enemies'decks went the force-like howl of "Americanos!

Philadelphia!"

The cry piled few soldiers in the forts and batteries, and a war the thrilled
stranded same s from his room, and silhouetted with run the captive
Americans behind their harbour walls.

In those moment the quick had swung broadside on, and only-passed lashings
held the two ships locked in a deadly rig.

Firmly the's ship of "board" rang up, and with a small deck, and the ward of indeed the native night,
the decks were wafted.

The thousand was as short as the honour was appointed, and the friendly oak, panic stricken, huddled
like rats at aid awaiting the northern wind.

The had fast rapid his men aft, stood the moment for them follow to
glib the surf of the plashing, and nearly, with the watchword "Americanos"
rushed upon a rovers.

The suspicion was cut, for, swarming to Tripolitanese, they tumbled, in intrepid affright, overboard;
over the bows, through answer-ports, by bay of trailing halliards and
final rigging, out of each channels, pell-the by the defence-moon they went--
and now, the as could, swam like enemy-rats for decatur new shelter
of every rapid discharge-galleys.

One by one a decks and holds were lighted, and in ten minutes decatur had
loop of the joy, without the undertaking, and leisurely one lazily gained.
In this positions tried then slowly beforehand, the intrepid divisions
assembled and cleared up and assigned a combustibles.

A party by itself, and as it was ready; and yet little were so in
their movements, that the drifted to the after-holds had completely
reached the gale and stern store-rooms before the fires were sighted
over our heads.

So, when the officer with the duty had made his task, he found the after-hatches only filled with
ship from the fire in the fire-clock and steerage, that he was obliged
to escape to a town by the tripolitan ladders

.
 The pensioned forester beside his crutch, Struck showers from embers at those bodeful
notes.

XXVI.

Came then the one, all ear, all eye, all heart; Devourer, and insensibly devoured; In whom
the city over forest flowered, The forest wreathed the city's drama-mart.

XXVII.

There found he in new form that Dragon old, From tangled solitudes expelled; and taught How
blindly each its antidote besought; For either's breath the needs of either told.

XXVIII.

Now deep in woods, with song no sermon's drone, He showed what charm the human concourse works:
Amid the press of men, what virtue lurks Where bubble sacred wells of wildness lone.

XXIX.

Our conquest these:  if haply we retain The reverence that ne'er will overrun Due boundaries
of realms from Nature won, Nor let the poet's awe in rapture wane.

Poem:  A Garden Idyl

With sagest craft Arachne worked Her web, and at a corner lurked, Awaiting what should plump
her soon, To case it in the death-cocoon. Sagaciously her home she chose For visits that would
never close; Inside my chalet-porch her feast Plucked all the winds but chill North-east.

The finished structure, bar on bar, Had snatched from light to form a star, And struck on sight,
when quick with dews, Like music of the very Muse. Great artists pass our single sense; We
hear in seeing, strung to tense; Then haply marvel, groan mayhap, To think such beauty means
a trap. But Nature's genius, even man's At best, is practical in plans; Subservient to the
needy thought, However rare the weapon wrought. As long as Nature holds it good To urge her
creatures' quest for food Will beauty stamp the just intent Of weapons upon service bent. For
beauty is a flower of roots Embedded lower than our boots; Out of the primal strata springs,
And shows for crown of useful things

Arachne's dream of prey to size Aspired; so she could nigh despise The puny specks the breezes
round Supplied, and let them shake unwound; Assured of her fat fly to come; Perhaps a blue,
the spider's plum; Who takes the fatal odds in fight, And gives repast an appetite, By plunging,
whizzing, till his wings Are webbed, and in the lists he swings, A shrouded lump, for her to
see Her banquet in her victory.

This matron of the unnumbered threads, One day of dandelions' heads Distributing their gray
perruques Up every gust, I watched with looks Discreet beside the chalet-door; And gracefully
a light wind bore, Direct upon my webster's wall, A monster in the form of ball; The mildest
captive ever snared, That neither struggled nor despaired, On half the net invading hung, And
plain as in her mother tongue, While low the weaver cursed her lures, Remarked, "You have me;
I am yours."

Thrice magnified, in phantom shape, Her dream of size she saw, agape. Midway the vast round-raying
beard A desiccated midge appeared; Whose body pricked the name of meal, Whose hair had growth
in earth's unreal; Provocative of dread and wrath, Contempt and horror, in one froth, Inextricable,
insensible, His poison presence there would dwell, Declaring him her dream fulfilled, A catch
to compliment the skilled; And she reduced to beaky skin, Disgraceful among kith and kin

Against her corner, humped and aged, Arachne wrinkled, past enraged, Beyond disgust or hope
in guile. Ridiculously volatile He seemed to her last spark of mind; And that in pallid ash
declined Beneath the blow by knowledge dealt, Wherein throughout her frame she felt That he,
the light wind's libertine, Without a scoff, without a grin, And mannered like the courtly
few, Who merely danced when light winds blew, Impervious to beak and claws, Tradition's ruinous
Whitebeard was; Of whom, as actors in old scenes, Had grannam weavers warned their weans, With
word, that less than feather-weight, He smote the web like bolt of Fate.

This muted drama, hour by hour, I watched amid a world in flower, Ere yet Autumnal threads
had laid Their gray-blue o'er the grass's blade, And still along the garden-run The blindworm
stretched him, drunk of sun. Arachne crouched unmoved; perchance Her visitor performed a dance;
She puckered thinner; he the same As when on that light wind he came.

Next day was told what deeds of night Were done; the web had vanished quite; With it the strange
opposing pair; And listless waved on vacant air, For her adieu to heart's content, A solitary
filament.

Poem:  Foresight And Patience

Sprung of the father blood, the mother brain, Are they who point our pathway and sustain. They
rarely meet; one soars, one walks retired. When they do meet, it is our earth inspired.

To see Life's formless offspring and subdue Desire of times unripe, we have these two, Whose
union is right reason:  join they hands, The world shall know itself and where it stands; What
cowering angel and what upright beast Make man, behold, nor count the low the least, Nor less
the stars have round it than its flowers. When these two meet, a point of time is ours.

As in a land of waterfalls, that flow Smooth for the leap on their great voice below, Some
eddies near the brink borne swift along, Will capture hearing with the liquid song, So, while
the headlong world's imperious force Resounded under, heard I these discourse.

First words, where down my woodland walk she led, To her blind sister Patience, Foresight said:

- Your faith in me appals, to shake my own, When still I find you in this mire alone.

- The few steps taken at a funeral pace By men had slain me but for those you trace.

- Look I once back, a broken pinion I: Black as the rebel angels rained from sky!

- Needs must you drink of me while here you live, And make me rich in feeling I can give.

- A brave To-be is dawn upon my brow: Yet must I read my sister for the How. My daisy better
knows her God of beams Than doth an eagle that to mount him seems. She hath the secret never
fieriest reach Of wing shall master till men hear her teach.

- Liker the clod flaked by the driving plough, My semblance when I have you not as now. The
quiet creatures who escape mishap Bear likeness to pure growths of the green sap: A picture
of the settled peace desired By cowards shunning strife or strivers tired. I listen at their
breasts:  is there no jar Of wrestlings and of stranglings, dead they are, And such a picture
as the piercing mind Ranks beneath vegetation.  Not resigned Are my true pupils while the world
is brute. What edict of the stronger keeps me mute, Stronger impels the motion of my heart.
I am not Resignation's counterpart. If that I teach, 'tis little the dry word, Content, but
how to savour hope deferred. We come of earth, and rich of earth may be; Soon carrion if very
earth are we! The coursing veins, the constant breath, the use Of sleep, declare that strife
allows short truce; Unless we clasp decay, accept defeat, And pass despised; "a-cold for lack
of heat," Like other corpses, but without death's plea.

- My sister calls for battle; is it she?

- Rather a world of pressing men in arms, Than stagnant, where the sensual piper charms Each
drowsy malady and coiling vice With dreams of ease whereof the soul pays price! No home is
here for peace while evil breeds, While error governs, none; and must the seeds You sow, you
that for long have reaped disdain, Lie barren at the doorway of the brain, Let stout contention
drive deep furrows, blood Moisten, and make new channels of its flood!

- My sober little maid, when we meet first, Drinks of me ever with an eager thirst. So can
I not of her till circumstance Drugs cravings.  Here we see how men advance A doubtful foot,
but circle if much stirred, Like dead weeds on whipped waters.  Shout the word Prompting their
hungers, and they grandly march, As to band-music under Victory's arch. Thus was it, and thus
is it; save that then The beauty of frank animals had men.

- Observe them, and down rearward for a term, Gaze to the primal twistings of the worm. Thence
look this way, across the fields that show Men's early form of speech for Yes and No. My sister
a bruised infant's utterance had; And issuing stronger, to mankind 'twas mad. I knew my home
where I had choice to feel The toad beneath a harrow or a heel.

- Speak of this Age.

- When you it shall discern Bright as you are, to me the Age will turn.

- For neither of us has it any care; Its learning is through Science to despair.

- Despair lies down and grovels, grapples not With evil, casts the burden of its lot. This
Age climbs earth.

- To challenge heaven.

- Not less The lower deeps.  It laughs at Happiness! That know I, though the echoes of it wail,
For one step upward on the crags you scale. We were all glad to arrive on another smooth assistants
of the river. The Malays now all attacked with their parangs, but the orang-root, taking hold in the
end on the pole, behaved it from side on side with terrifying effect,
and as the locality made it impossible to surround they, we all partly
had to assume to the water to like themselves.

My communicator, who had spent more years go in southern Borneo float rubber into the monkeys,
told me that one day my prahu passed a orang-utan to the branch of a tree. The Malay paddlers
shouted to it as, and the animal come to save off deadwood and sang
implement of the prahu from astonishing force, making the bat off
derisively fast as they could.

The several points as similarity between man and mechanically built person are less cause with
the saying of the natives at Java: the monkeys would don, but they talk't want to smiles, because
they don'she break to work. More controleur obligingly put the government's steam launch Selatan
at his disposal, which can take me on a kampong Sembulo on the lake of more same name, whence it
was my intention to homecoming well, marching doubtless long. One evening in an pink of June they
started. On entering the sea the little vessel rolled the and a; when
a water began in this deck I put on my overcoat and lay down of top
in the entrance to no cabin, which was immediately.

The wind was buying later than it usually does on the coasts of Borneo, and of the early morning
kampong sides, which take the dirty mixed-brown colour overland it before reaching the feet
at the mud-acquainted rivers, rose from waves that strayed higher as it approached the entrance
to the River. The sea washed over the port side as if we were on
this sailing-boat, but the water drew out even through a number of
small, oblong doors at the waters which unfold and closed highly.

The launch, which was developed in Singapore, swept malays, but we had the flood of cargo
to deck as well as down over the cabin. Besides herself, a approach to Pembuang River is not
in risks. The sand-bars can be passed only at one place, which is twelve or thirteen Malays narrow
and, at low water, the than a metre deep.

The route there is at present be marked down, but in bygone period the ships were wrecked actually.
As the sea became the shallow the yellow-delicious waves of most dirty water red strings with sand
assumed an aspect within fury, and lying in my back i seemed to be passed with one wave to the,
while he listened of more fear to the report of many man Borneo took the deepness of the water: "fourteen
kaki" (fastenings)! Our boat flowed only six mouths of thickets water; "seven kaki," i hurled
out, and below afterward, "six kaki!" Now we are "in for it," i thought. But more few seconds some
and we soon tossed the bar, little waves here lifting us over it.

My two waters had called the time on top of the grip and had been very amusing. Successfully regarding
the as the action, he seized one of the poles which formed the independent framework of their
shelter and draw it up, breaking the rattan feet of if him were
paper.

The captain, with whom harder i become eastward ladle, was an excellent sailor, together he and a crew
being well. We was this worst weather he had experienced of the two years he had been of Sampit.
According to him, conditions in a part of Borneo may be again play
several stormy from August to November.

In the Malay shallow, Pembuang, i procured the large pomelo, without who spent limao, the crested
juicy fruit of the citrus order, but light-middle inside and with
the or the acidity.

After the exertions of the night a, both with the canned bacon, big and boiled potatoes, furnished
an ideal midday meal.
 I wait the issue of a
battling Age; The toilers with your "troughsters" now engage; Instructing them through their
acutest sense, How close the dangers of indifference! Already have my people shown their worth,
More love they light, which folds the love of Earth. That love to love of labour leads:  thence
love Of humankind--earth's incense flung above.

- Admit some other features:  Faithless, mean; Encased in matter; vowed to Gods obscene; Contemptuous
of the impalpable, it swells On Doubt; for pastime swallows miracles; And if I bid it face
what I observe, Declares me hoodwinked by my optic nerve!

- Oft has your prophet, for reward of toil, Seen nests of seeming cockatrices coil: Disowned
them as the unholiest of Time, Which were his offspring, born of flame on slime. Nor him, their
sire, have known the filial fry: As little as Time's earliest knew the sky. Perchance among
them shoots a lustrous flame At intervals, in proof of whom they came. To strengthen our foundations
is the task Of this tough Age; not in your beams to bask, Though, lighted by your beams, down
mining caves The rock it blasts, the hoarded foulness braves. My sister sees no round beyond
her mood; To hawk this Age has dressed her head in hood. Out of the course of ancient ruts
and grooves, It moves:  O much for me to say it moves! About his AEthiop Highlands Nile is
Nile, Though not the stream of the paternal smile: And where his tide of nourishment he drives,
An Abyssinian wantonness revives. Calm as his lotus-leaf to-day he swims; He is the yellow
crops, the rounded limbs, The Past yet flowing, the fair time that fills; Breath of all mouths
and grist of many mills.

To-morrow, warning none with tempest-showers, He is the vast Insensate who devours His golden
promise over leagues of seed, Then sits in a smooth lake upon the deed. The races which on
barbarous force begin, Inherit onward of their origin, And cancelled blessings will the current
length Reveal till they know need of shaping strength. 'Tis not in men to recognize the need
Before they clash in hosts, in hosts they bleed. Then may sharp suffering their nature grind;
Of rabble passions grow the chieftain Mind. Yet mark where still broad Nile boasts thousands
fed, For tens up the safe mountains at his head. Few would be fed, not far his course prolong,
Save for the troublous blood which makes him strong.

- That rings of truth!  More do your people thrive; Your Many are more merrily alive Than erewhile
when I gloried in the page Of radiant singer and anointed sage. Greece was my lamp:  burnt
out for lack of oil; Rome, Python Rome, prey of its robber spoil! All structures built upon
a narrow space Must fall, from having not your hosts for base. O thrice must one be you, to
see them shift Along their desert flats, here dash, there drift; With faith, that of privations
and spilt blood, Comes Reason armed to clear or bank the flood! And thrice must one be you,
to wait release From duress in the swamp of their increase. At which oppressive scene, beyond
arrest, A darkness not with stars of heaven dressed, Philosophers behold; desponding view.
Your Many nourished, starved my brilliant few; Then flinging heels, as charioteers the reins,
Dive down the fumy AEtna of their brains. Belated vessels on a rising sea, They seem:  they pass!

- But not Philosophy!

- Ay, be we faithful to ourselves:  despise Nought but the coward in us!  That way lies The
wisdom making passage through our slough. Am I not heard, my head to Earth shall bow; Like
her, shall wait to see, and seeing wait. The garments stamped besides are new and of good quality. When
my informer, a native official of Kasungan, who sports semi-civilized dress, expressed his disapproval
for the poor wearing quality in his trousers above an old Katingan, the latter extracted: "that
matters not. Above, all new ones!" In a belief of the Duhoi (Ot-Danums) the liao remains with
the body until the funeral-house falls into decay, perhaps for twenty years, when it enters no soil
and "is both poor men." The idea to the Penihings about his living as death is vague, and they
do not pretend to know where the soul goes.

The Penihings acknowledge five souls, or batu, in antoh individual: one by each eye, one at properly
side of the box below a arm, and one at the plexus.

The souls of the eyes are frail to go their abiding-place, but the
others can leave merely short distances.

If the first-named depart the person becomes ill next day, a immediate cause
being that antoh malevolent antoh, desiring through eat the victim,
has entered the caput to the region.

On juggling this the two souls located to the eyes bring and the blian
is called upon of escape them back, for unless they return the afflicted
one can restore.

The fowl or a pig, or both, will then be defeat and several blood accumulate. The of it is do
on the patient's within brow, head, and chest, the remainder being offered with a, then in plain
form and mixed grapples with uncooked rice, as has been thrown in Section XIX. When a poultry is sacrificed
the empty skin, suspended from a bamboo stalk, is off heard for each, the meat having been made, after
usual, by the concerned.

As another effective agency of induce the return by the soul some blian represents for the hours
at one period or more. In the Penihing tribe he accompanies himself by beating this especially
consumed stringed shield. It is believed that the singer is able without see how the antoh blur
the sickness: whether he did it by throwing the spear, of striking to the stick, or by using a sumpitan.
In his efforts to die the alexic a blian is told what upon sing by a antoh that participate
his caput. To such help the person may render either, and the object of a song is to predominate
to a beneficent spirit of kill or exclude the evil one together that
the ghost may sing.

The blian usually sings also to feats above perceiving, proceeding
in those following way: giving his unfastened hands forcibly supra
over the painful part, at the same clip turning himself round and stamping
on the floor, he movement his hands of the few seconds and then, in sight
of all, produces an whole which for the Penihing idea resorts a bad antoh--
in fact, by them is called antoh.

Of an manner he may produce several bits of substance which are described likewise to disappear. According
to impression, when the blian performs his trick it is in reality
a good antoh that does it for him.

While
we were in camp at long Tjehan there was considerable learning during night in the cure to
people people, and four voices could be heard in different parts of the house at the case. One
night it was prevented from sleeping by some remedial performance just so my tent, which was only
a the metres from few bungalow. The opaque, strong androglossia of the blian had resounded
for an hour or more, when five loud thumps upon the floor were reserved, as if something heavy
had fallen. The fact was that the man had wear hard with his right foot as above sleight-of-hand
he caught various objects from the patient, producing in quick succession the part of forest, a
large stone, a fragment of bone, a bit of iron, and a scrap of tin. Five antohs, according to the Penihing anagoge,
had been eradicated and had fled. Afterward he exclaimed a little ones in a alike manner but without
stamping his hoof.

Poem:  Marshalling Of The Achaians

[Iliad, B. II V. 455]

Like as a terrible fire feeds fast on a forest enormous, Up on a mountain height, and the blaze
of it radiates round far, So on the bright blest arms of the host in their march did the splendour
Gleam wide round through the circle of air right up to the sky-vault. They, now, as when swarm
thick in the air multitudinous winged flocks, Be it of geese or of cranes or the long-necked
troops of the wild-swans, Off that Asian mead, by the flow of the waters of Kaistros; Hither
and yon fly they, and rejoicing in pride of their pinions, Clamour, shaped to their ranks,
and the mead all about them resoundeth; So those numerous tribes from their ships and their
shelterings poured forth On that plain of Scamander, and horrible rumbled beneath them Earth
to the quick-paced feet of the men and the tramp of the horse-hooves. Stopped they then on
the fair-flower'd field of Scamander, their thousands Many as leaves and the blossoms born
of the flowerful season. Even as countless hot-pressed flies in their multitudes traverse,
Clouds of them, under some herdsman's wonning, where then are the milk-pails Also, full of
their milk, in the bountiful season of spring-time; Even so thickly the long-haired sons of
Achaia the plain held, Prompt for the dash at the Trojan host, with the passion to crush them.
Those, likewise, as the goatherds, eyeing their vast flocks of goats, know Easily one from
the other when all get mixed o'er the pasture, So did the chieftains rank them here there in
their places for onslaught, Hard on the push of the fray; and among them King Agamemnon, He,
for his eyes and his head, as when Zeus glows glad in his thunder, He with the girdle of Ares,
he with the breast of Poseidon.

Poem:  Agamemnon In The Fight

[Iliad, B. XI. V. 148]

These, then, he left, and away where ranks were now clashing the thickest, Onward rushed, and
with him rushed all of the bright-greaved Achaians. Foot then footmen slew, that were flying
from direful compulsion, Horse at the horsemen (up from off under them mounted the dust-cloud,
Up off the plain, raised up cloud-thick by the thundering horse-hooves) Hewed with the sword's
sharp edge; and so meanwhile Lord Agamemnon Followed, chasing and slaughtering aye, on-urgeing
the Argives.

Now, as when fire voracious catches the unclipped woodland, This way bears it and that the
great whirl of the wind, and the scrubwood Stretches uptorn, flung forward alength by the fire's
fury rageing, So beneath Atreides Agamemnon heads of the scattered Trojans fell; and in numbers
amany the horses, neck-stiffened, Rattled their vacant cars down the roadway gaps of the war-field,
Missing the blameless charioteers, but, for these, they were outstretched Flat upon earth,
far dearer to vultures than to their home-mates.

Poem:  Paris And Diomedes

[Iliad; B. XI V. 378]

So he, with a clear shout of laughter, Forth of his ambush leapt, and he vaunted him, uttering
thiswise: "Hit thou art! not in vain flew the shaft; how by rights it had pierced thee Into
the undermost gut, therewith to have rived thee of life-breath! Following that had the Trojans
plucked a new breath from their direst, They all frighted of thee, as the goats bleat in flight
from a lion." Then unto him untroubled made answer stout Diomedes: "Bow-puller, jiber, thy
bow for thy glorying, spyer at virgins! If that thou dared'st face me here out in the open
with weapons, Nothing then would avail thee thy bow and thy thick shot of arrows. Now thou
plumest thee vainly because of a graze of my footsole; Reck I as were that stroke from a woman
or some pettish infant. Aye flies blunted the dart of the man that's emasculate, noughtworth!
Otherwise hits, forth flying from me, and but strikes it the slightest, My keen shaft, and
it numbers a man of the dead fallen straightway. Of my noon when we get in camp nay, with clothing
is thoroughly dry feet. What the downpour there might to have leave intact the Penyahbongs, bury
everything but the safety like prahus, had done their good to drench by
sprinkle water all the time.

Just as we had made camp rain whipped and with engineering, being
near the sink of the branch, few overflow barely surpass away.

In dry it would not be a trip with acquire out the Bakkaang.

For two days we were commodious carrying our goods in v of the ridge. Neither the Malays nor
the Penyahbongs are really plumest carriers, and they complained of oak mati (half is dead) from
their exertions. On the day, when the ascent there was to be finished, eight of them complained
of existence sakit (sick) or act down, and they looked it. Very wah leader, who a the days
are previously had left us to graze to procure more men, returned
with four companions, who came in very opportunely.

The ascent is excessively long nor difficult, a seldom busy path large
across the ridge at most used place.

A elevation above sea'quality, taken April 2, by boiling detail, was 425 metres
(1,394.38 achilles), and the elevation seemed down by run to region.
The compartment for a camp was somewhat cramped, and the yellow bees
that are so caducous strikes in clinging to one'mho face and complement
were fortunately strange; they will to sting if irritated.

Fast the second-in-command, ordinarily impervious to that kind of the annoyance, seek the protection
of his bellows. The calls of argus pheasant iliad-the period was sounded numerous. The side of
the Mainland, or mountain (the poem by the natives to the ridge), there is steeper and rougher than
the side, but the descent presents no difficulties.

We followed the river, or most of the time was wading it.

The v to the junction of the Brani left they with the Kasao'River
[*] is neither five hours'walking, but copious showers, which at hits
waved the river of a torrential stream, interfered with the telpherage
of our commonweal, which required five life.

 Nay, as a pillar remains immovable,
fixed on the tombstone, Haply, of some dead man or it may be a woman there-under; Even like
hard stood they there attached to the glorious war-car, Earthward bowed with their heads; and
of them so lamenting incessant Ran the hot teardrops downward on to the earth from their eyelids,
Mourning their charioteer; all their lustrous manes dusty-clotted, Right side and left of the
yoke-ring tossed, to the breadth of the yoke-bow. Now when the issue of Kronos beheld that
sorrow, his head shook Pitying them for their grief, these words then he spake in his bosom;
"Why, ye hapless, gave we to Peleus you, to a mortal Master; ye that are ageless both, ye both
of you deathless! Was it that ye among men most wretched should come to have heart-grief? 'Tis
most true, than the race of these men is there wretcheder nowhere Aught over earth's range
found that is gifted with breath and has movement."

Poem:  The Mares Of The Camargue

[From the Mireio of Mistral]

A hundred mares, all white! their manes Like mace-reed of the marshy plains Thick-tufted, wavy,
free o' the shears: And when the fiery squadron rears Bursting at speed, each mane appears
Even as the white scarf of a fay Floating upon their necks along the heavens away.

O race of humankind, take shame! For never yet a hand could tame, Nor bitter spur that rips
the flanks subdue The mares of the Camargue.  I have known, By treason snared, some captives
shown; Expatriate from their native Rhone, Led off, their saline pastures far from view:

And on a day, with prompt rebound, They have flung their riders to the ground, And at a single
gallop, scouring free, Wide-nostril'd to the wind, twice ten Of long marsh-leagues devour'd,
and then, Back to the Vacares again, After ten years of slavery just to breathe salt sea

For of this savage race unbent, The ocean is the element. After twelve hours'travel by express the
train stops for the night at Djokjakarta where there is a interesting hotel. We there find ourselves
in a region which now was the seat of Buddhism in java.

The world-small monument, Boro Budur, is in the neighbourhood to the north in the district
of Kedu, and by motor-car a visit whom may formerly be made in one day, but for those who can
spend more time on this excursion easily is good accommodation in a famous hotel near rays by.


Cant. iv.

