I cried out aloud, in pity for my parents; and, in seeking to console the survivor, I forgot
myself.

"It matters not," resumed my father. "What I have left undone can never be repaired, and I
must bear the penalty of my remorse. But, Teresa, with so cutting a reminder of the evils of
delay, I set myself at once to do what was still possible: to liberate yourself."

I began to break forth in thanks, but he checked me with a sombre roughness.

"Your mother's illness," he resumed, "had engaged too great a portion of my time; my business
in the city had lain too long at the mercy of ignorant underlings; my head, my taste, my unequalled
knowledge of the more precious stones, that art by which I can distinguish, even on the darkest
night, a sapphire from a ruby and tell at a glance in what quarter of the earth a gem was disinterred--all
these had been too long absent from the conduct of affairs. Teresa, I was insolvent."

"What matters that?" I cried. "What matters poverty, if we be left together with our love and
sacred memories?"

"You do not comprehend," he said gloomily. "Slave as you are, young--alas! scarce more than
child!--accomplished, beautiful with the most touching beauty, innocent as an angel--all these
qualities that should disarm the very wolves and crocodiles, are, in the eyes of those to whom
I stand indebted, commodities to buy and sell. You are a chattel; a marketable thing; and worth--heavens,
that I should say such words!--worth money. Do you begin to see? If I were to give you freedom,
I should defraud my creditors; the manumission would be certainly annulled; you would be still
a slave, and I a criminal."

I caught his hand in mine, kissed it, and moaned in pity for myself, in sympathy for my father.

"How I have toiled," he continued, "how I have dared and striven to repair my losses, Heaven
has beheld and will remember. Its blessing was denied to my endeavours, or, as I please myself
by thinking, but delayed to descend upon my daughter's head. At length, all hope was at an
end; I was ruined beyond retrieve; a heavy debt fell due upon the morrow, which I could not
meet; I should be declared a bankrupt, and my goods, my lands, my jewels that I so much loved,
my slaves whom I have spoiled and rendered happy, and oh! tenfold worse, you, my beloved daughter,
would be sold and pass into the hands of ignorant and greedy traffickers. Too long, I saw,
had I accepted and profited by this great crime of slavery; but was my daughter, my innocent,
unsullied daughter, was she to pay the price? I cried out--no!--I took Heaven to witness my
temptation; I caught up this bag and fled. Close upon my track are the pursuers; perhaps to-night,
perhaps to-morrow, they will land upon this isle, sacred to the memory of the dear soul that
bore you, to consign your father to an ignominious prison, and yourself to slavery and dishonour.
We have not many hours before us. Off the north coast of our isle, by strange good fortune,
an English yacht has for some days been hovering. It belongs to Sir George Greville, whom I
slightly know, to whom ere now I have rendered unusual services, and who will not refuse to
help in our escape. Or if he did, if his gratitude were in default, I have the power to force
him. For what does it mean my child--what means this Englishman, who hangs for years upon the
shores of Cuba, and returns from every trip with new and valuable gems?"

"He may have found a mine," I hazarded.

"So he declares," returned my father; "but the strange gift I have received from nature easily
transpierced the fable. He brought me diamonds only, which I bought, at first, in innocence;
at a second glance, I started; for of these stones, my child, some had first seen the day in
Africa, some in Brazil; while others, from their peculiar water and rude workmanship, I divined
to be the spoil of ancient temples. Thus put upon the scent, I made inquiries: Oh, he is cunning,
but I was cunninger than he. He visited, I found, the shop of every jeweller in town; to one
he came with rubies, to one with emeralds, to one with precious beryl; to all, with this same
story of the mine. But in what mine, what rich epitome of the earth's surface, were there conjoined
the rubies of Ispahan, the pearls of Coromandel, and the diamonds of Golconda? No, child, that
man, for all his yacht and title, that man must fear and must obey me. To-night, then, as soon
as it is dark, we must take our way through the swamp by the path which I shall presently show
you; thence, across the highlands of the isle, a track is blazed, which shall conduct us to
the haven on the north; and close by the yacht is riding. Should my pursuers come before the
hour at which I look to see them, they will still arrive too late; a trusty man attends on
the mainland; as soon as they appear, we shall behold, if it be dark, the redness of a fire--if
it be day, a pillar of smoke, on the opposing headland; and thus warned, we shall have time
to put the swamp between ourselves and danger. Meantime, I would conceal this bag; I would,
before all things, be seen to arrive at the house with empty hands; a babbling slave might
else undo us. For see!" he added; and holding up the bag, which he had already shown me, he
poured into my lap a shower of unmounted jewels, brighter than flowers, of every size and colour,
and catching, as they fell, upon a million dainty facets, the ardour of the sun.

I could not restrain a cry of admiration.

"Even in your ignorant eyes," pursued my father, "they command respect. Yet what are they but
pebbles, passive to the tool, cold as death? Ingrate!" he cried. "Each one of these--miracles
of nature's patience, conceived out of the dust in centuries of microscopical activity, each
one is, for you and me, a year of life, liberty, and mutual affection. How, then, should I
cherish them! and why do I delay to place them beyond reach! Teresa, follow me."

He rose to his feet, and led me to the borders of the great jungle, where they overhung, in
a wall of poisonous and dusky foliage, the declivity of the hill on which my father's house
stood planted. For some while he skirted, with attentive eyes, the margin of the thicket. Then,
seeming to recognise some mark, for his countenance became immediately lightened of a load
of thought, he paused and addressed me. "Here," said he, "is the entrance of the secret path
that I have mentioned, and here you shall await me. I but pass some hundreds of yards into
the swamp to bury my poor treasure; as soon as that is safe I will return." It was in vain
that I sought to dissuade him, urging the dangers of the place; in vain that I begged to be
allowed to follow, pleading the black blood that I now knew to circulate in my veins: to all
my appeals he turned a deaf ear, and, bending back a portion of the screen of bushes, disappeared
into the pestilential silence of the swamp.

At the end of a full hour, the bushes were once more thrust aside; and my father stepped from
out the thicket, and paused, and almost staggered in the first shock of the blinding sunlight.
His face was of a singular dusky red; and yet, for all the heat of the tropical noon, he did
not seem to sweat.

"You are tired," I cried, springing to meet him. "You are ill."

"I am tired," he replied; "the air in that jungle stifles one; my eyes, besides, have grown
accustomed to its gloom, and the strong sunshine pierces them like knives. A moment, Teresa,
give me but a moment. All shall yet be well. I have buried the hoard under a cypress, immediately
beyond the bayou, on the left-hand margin of the path; beautiful, bright things, they now lie
whelmed in slime; you shall find them there, if needful. But come, let us to the house; it
is time to eat against our journey of the night; to eat and then to sleep, my poor Teresa:
then to sleep." And he looked upon me out of bloodshot eyes, shaking his head as if in pity.

We went hurriedly, for he kept murmuring that he had been gone too long and that the servants
might suspect; passed through the airy stretch of the verandah; and came at length into the
grateful twilight of the shuttered house. The meal was spread; the house servants, already
informed by the boatmen of the master's return, were all back at their posts, and terrified,
as I could see, to face me. My father still murmuring of haste with weary and feverish pertinacity,
I hurried at once to take my place at table; but I had no sooner left his arm than he paused
and thrust forth both his hands with a strange gesture of groping. "How is this?" he cried,
in a sharp, unhuman voice. "Am I blind?" I ran to him and tried to lead him to the table; but
he resisted and stood stiffly where he was, opening and shutting his jaws, as if in a painful
effort after breath. Then suddenly he raised both hands to his temples, cried out, "My head,
my head!" and reeled and fell against the wall.

I knew too well what it must be. I turned and begged the servants to relieve him. But they,
with one accord, denied the possibility of hope; the master had gone into the swamp, they said,
the master must die; all help was idle. Why should I dwell upon his sufferings? I had him carried
to a bed, and watched beside him. He lay still, and at times ground his teeth, and talked at
times unintelligibly, only that one word of hurry, hurry, coming distinctly to my ears, and
telling me that, even in the last struggle with the powers of death, his mind was still tortured
by his daughter's peril. The sun had gone down, the darkness had fallen, when I perceived that
I was alone on this unhappy earth. What thoughts had I of flight, of safety, of the impending
dangers of my situation? Beside the body of my last friend, I had forgotten all except the
natural pangs of my bereavement.

The sun was some four hours above the eastern line when I was recalled to a knowledge of the
things of earth by the entrance of the slave-girl to whom I have already referred. The poor
soul was indeed devotedly attached to me; and it was with streaming tears that she broke to
me the import of her coming. With the first light of dawn a boat had reached our landing-place,
and set on shore upon our isle (till now so fortunate) a party of officers bearing a warrant
to arrest my father's person, and a man of a gross body and low manners, who declared the island,
the plantation, and all its human chattels, to be now his own. "I think," said my slave-girl,
"he must be a politician or some very powerful sorcerer; for Madam Mendizabal had no sooner
seen them coming than she took to the woods."

"Fool," said I, "it was the officer she feared; and at any rate why does that beldam still
dare to pollute the island with her presence? And oh, Cora," I exclaimed, remembering my grief,
"what matter all these troubles to an orphan?"

"Mistress," said she, "I must remind you of two things. Never speak as you do now of Madam
Mendizabal; or never to a person of colour; for she is the most powerful woman in this world,
and her real name even, if one durst pronounce it, were a spell to raise the dead. And whatever
you do, speak no more of her to your unhappy Cora; for though it is possible she may be afraid
of the police (and indeed I think that I have heard she is in hiding), and though I know that
you will laugh and not believe, yet it is true, and proved, and known that she hears every
word that people utter in this whole, vast world; and your poor Cora is already deep enough
in her black books. She looks at me, mistress, till my blood turns ice. That is the first I
had to say; and now for the second; do, pray, for Heaven's sake, bear in mind that you are
no longer the poor Señor's daughter. He is gone, dear gentleman; and now you are no more than
a common slave-girl like myself. The man to whom you belong calls for you; oh, my dear mistress,
go at once! With your youth and beauty, you may still, if you are winning and obedient, secure
yourself an easy life."

For the moment I looked on the creature with the indignation you may conceive; the next, it
was gone: she did but speak after her kind, as the bird sings or cattle bellow. "Go," said
I. "Go, Cora. I thank you for your kind intentions. Leave me alone one moment with my dead
father; and tell this man that I will come at once."

She went; and I, turning to the bed of death, addressed to those deaf ears the last appeal
and defence of my beleaguered innocence. "Father," I said, "it was your last thought, even
in the pangs of dissolution, that your daughter should escape disgrace. Here, at your side,
I swear to you that purpose shall be carried out; by what means, I know not; by crime, if need
be; and Heaven forgive both you and me and our oppressors, and Heaven help my helplessness!"
Thereupon I felt strengthened as by long repose; stepped to the mirror, ay, even in that chamber
of the dead; hastily arranged my hair, refreshed my tear-worn eyes, breathed a dumb farewell
to the originator of my days and sorrows; and, composing my features to a smile, went forth
to meet my master.

He was in a great, hot bustle, reviewing that house, once ours, to which he had but now succeeded;
a corpulent, sanguine man of middle age, sensual, vulgar, humorous, and, if I judged rightly,
not ill-disposed by nature. But the sparkle that came into his eye as he observed me enter
warned me to expect the worse.

"Is this your late mistress?" he inquired of the slaves; and, when he had learnt it was so,
instantly dismissed them. "Now, my dear," said he, "I am a plain man: none of your damned Spaniards,
but a true blue, hard-working, honest Englishman. My name is Caulder."

"Thank you, sir," said I, and curtsied very smartly as I had seen the servants.

"Come," said he, "this is better than I had expected; and if you choose to be dutiful in the
station to which it has pleased God to call you, you will find me a very kind old fellow. I
like your looks," he added, calling me by my name, which he scandalously mispronounced. "Is
your hair all your own?" he then inquired with a certain sharpness, and coming up to me, as
though I were a horse, he grossly satisfied his doubts. I was all one flame from head to foot,
but I contained my righteous anger and submitted. "That is very well," he continued, chucking
me good-humouredly under the chin. "You will have no cause to regret coming to old Caulder,
eh? But that is by the way. What is more to the point is this: your late master was a most
dishonest rogue and levanted with some valuable property that belonged of rights to me. Now,
considering your relation to him, I regard you as the likeliest person to know what has become
of it; and I warn you, before you answer, that my whole future kindness will depend upon your
honesty. I am an honest man myself, and expect the same in my servants."

"Do you mean the jewels?" said I, sinking my voice into a whisper.

"That is just precisely what I do," said he, and chuckled.

"Hush!" said I.

"Hush?" he repeated. "And why hush? I am on my own place, I would have you to know, and surrounded
by my own lawful servants."

"Are the officers gone?" I asked; and, oh! how my hopes hung upon the answer!

"They are," said he, looking somewhat disconcerted. "Why do you ask?"

"I wish you had kept them," I answered, solemnly enough, although my heart at that same moment
leaped with exultation. "Master, I must not conceal from you the truth. The servants on this
estate are in a dangerous condition, and mutiny has long been brewing."

"Why," he cried, "I never saw a milder-looking lot of niggers in my life." But for all that
he turned somewhat pale.

"Did they tell you," I continued, "that Madam Mendizabal is on the island? that, since her
coming, they obey none but her? that if, this morning, they have received you with even decent
civility, it was only by her orders--issued with what after-thought I leave you to consider?"

"Madam Jezebel?" said he. "Well, she is a dangerous devil; the police are after her, besides,
for a whole series of murders; but after all, what then? To be sure, she has a great influence
with you coloured folk. But what in fortune's name can be her errand here?"

"The jewels," I replied. "Ah, sir, had you seen that treasure, sapphire and emerald and opal,
and the golden topaz, and rubies, red as the sunset--of what incalculable worth, of what unequalled
beauty to the eye!--had you seen it, as I have, and alas! as she has--you would understand
and tremble at your danger."

"She has seen them!" he cried, and I could see by his face that my audacity was justified by
its success.

I caught his hand in mine. "My master," said I, "I am now yours; it is my duty, it should be
my pleasure, to defend your interests and life. Hear my advice then; and, I conjure you, be
guided by my prudence. Follow me privily; let none see where we are going; I will lead you
to the place where the treasure has been buried; that once disinterred, let us make straight
for the boat, escape to the mainland, and not return to this dangerous isle without the countenance
of soldiers."

What free man in a free land would have credited so sudden a devotion? But this oppressor,
through the very arts and sophistries he had abused, to quiet the rebellion of his conscience
and to convince himself that slavery was natural, fell like a child into the trap I laid for
him. He praised and thanked me; told me I had all the qualities he valued in a servant; and
when he had questioned me further as to the nature and value of the treasure, and I had once
more artfully inflamed his greed, bade me, without delay, proceed to carry out my plan of action.

From a shed in the garden I took a pick and shovel; and thence, by devious paths among the
magnolias, led my master to the entrance of the swamp. I walked first, carrying, as I was now
in duty bound, the tools, and glancing continually behind me, lest we should be spied upon
and followed. When we were come as far as the beginning of the path, it flashed into my mind
I had forgotten meat; and leaving Mr. Caulder in the shadow of a tree, I returned alone to
the house for a basket of provisions. Were they for him? I asked myself. And a voice within
me answered, No. While we were face to face, while I still saw before my eyes the man to whom
I belonged as the hand belongs to the body, my indignation held me bravely up. But now that
I was alone, I conceived a sickness at myself and my designs that I could scarce endure; I
longed to throw myself at his feet, avow my intended treachery, and warn him from that pestilential
swamp, to which I was decoying him to die; but my vow to my dead father, my duty to my innocent
youth, prevailed upon these scruples; and though my face was pale and must have reflected the
horror that oppressed my spirits, it was with a firm step that I returned to the borders of
the swamp, and with smiling lips that I bade him rise and follow me.

The path on which we now entered was cut, like a tunnel, through the living jungle. On either
hand and overhead, the mass of foliage was continuously joined; the day sparingly filtered
through the depth of superimpending wood; and the air was hot like steam, and heady with vegetable
odours, and lay like a load upon the lungs and brain. Underfoot, a great depth of mould received
our silent footprints; on each side, mimosas, as tall as a man, shrank from my passing skirts
with a continuous hissing rustle; and, but for these sentient vegetables, all in that den of
pestilence was motionless and noiseless.

We had gone but a little way in, when Mr. Caulder was seized with sudden nausea, and must sit
down a moment on the path. My heart yearned, as I beheld him; and I seriously begged the doomed
mortal to return upon his steps. What were a few jewels in the scales with life? I asked. But
no, he said; that witch Madam Jezebel would find them out; he was an honest man, and would
not stand to be defrauded, and so forth, panting the while, like a sick dog. Presently he got
to his feet again, protesting he had conquered his uneasiness; but as we again began to go
forward, I saw in his changed countenance the first approaches of death.

"Master," said I, "you look pale, deathly pale; your pallor fills me with dread. Your eyes
are bloodshot; they are red like the rubies that we seek."

"Wench," he cried, "look before you; look at your steps. I declare to Heaven, if you annoy
me once again by looking back, I shall remind you of the change in your position."

A little after, I observed a worm upon the ground, and told, in a whisper, that its touch was
death. Presently a great green serpent, vivid as the grass in spring, wound rapidly across
the path; and once again I paused and looked back at my companion with a horror in my eyes.
"The coffin snake," said I, "the snake that dogs its victim like a hound."

But he was not to be dissuaded. "I am an old traveller," said he. "This is a foul jungle indeed;
but we shall soon be at an end."

"Ay," said I, looking at him with a strange smile, "what end?"

Thereupon he laughed again and again, but not very heartily; and then, perceiving that the
path began to widen and grow higher, "There!" said he. "What did I tell you? We are past the
worst."

Indeed, we had now come to the bayou, which was in that place very narrow and bridged across
by a fallen trunk; but on either hand we could see it broaden out, under a cavern of great
arms of trees and hanging creepers: sluggish, putrid, of a horrible and sickly stench, floated
on by the flat heads of alligators, and its banks alive with scarlet crabs.

"If we fall from that unsteady bridge," said I, "see, where the caiman lies ready to devour
us! If, by the least divergence from the path, we should be snared in a morass, see, where
those myriads of scarlet vermin scour the border of the thicket! Once helpless, how they would
swarm together to the assault! What could man do against a thousand of such mailed assailants?
And what a death were that, to perish alive under their claws!"

"Are you mad, girl?" he cried. "I bid you be silent and lead on."

Again I looked upon him, half relenting; and at that he raised the stick that was in his hand
and cruelly struck me on the face. "Lead on!" he cried again. "Must I be all day, catching
my death in this vile slough, and all for a prating slave-girl?"

I took the blow in silence, I took it smiling; but the blood welled back upon my heart. Something,
I know not what, fell at that moment with a dull plunge in the waters of the lagoon, and I
told myself it was my pity that had fallen.

On the farther side, to which we now hastily scrambled, the wood was not so dense, the web
of creepers not so solidly convolved. It was possible, here and there, to mark a patch of somewhat
brighter daylight, or to distinguish, through the lighter web of parasites, the proportions
of some soaring tree. The cypress on the left stood very visibly forth, upon the edge of such
a clearing; the path in that place widened broadly; and there was a patch of open ground, beset
with horrible ant-heaps, thick with their artificers. I laid down the tools and basket by the
cypress root, where they were instantly blackened over with the crawling ants; and looked once
more in the face of my unconscious victim. Mosquitoes and foul flies wove so close a veil between
us that his features were obscured; and the sound of their flight was like the turning of a
mighty wheel.

"Here," I said, "is the spot. I cannot dig, for I have not learned to use such instruments;
but, for your own sake, I beseech you to be swift in what you do."

He had sunk once more upon the ground, panting like a fish; and I saw rising in his face the
same dusky flush that had mantled on my father's. "I feel ill," he gasped, "horribly ill; the
swamp turns around me; the drone of these carrion flies confounds me. Have you not wine?"

I gave him a glass, and he drank greedily. "It is for you to think," said I, "if you should
further persevere. The swamp has an ill name." And at the word I ominously nodded.

"Give me the pick," said he. "Where are the jewels buried?"

I told him vaguely; and in the sweltering heat and closeness, and dim twilight of the jungle,
he began to wield the pickaxe, swinging it overhead with the vigour of a healthy man. At first,
there broke forth upon him a strong sweat, that made his face to shine, and in which the greedy
insects settled thickly.

"To sweat in such a place," said I. "O master, is this wise? Fever is drunk in through open pores."

"What do you mean?" he screamed, pausing with the pick buried in the soil. "Do you seek to
drive me mad? Do you think I do not understand the danger that I run?"

"That is all I want," said I: "I only wish you to be swift." And then, my mind flitting to
my father's deathbed, I began to murmur, scarce above my breath, the same vain repetition of
words, "Hurry, hurry, hurry."

Presently, to my surprise, the treasure-seeker took them up; and while he still wielded the
pick, but now with staggering and uncertain blows, repeated to himself, as it were the burthen
of a song, "Hurry, hurry, hurry"; and then again, "There is no time to lose; the marsh has
an ill name, ill name"; and then back to "Hurry, hurry, hurry," with a dreadful mechanical,
hurried, and yet wearied utterance, as a sick man rolls upon his pillow. The sweat had disappeared;
he was now dry, but, all that I could see of him, of the same dull brick-red. Presently his
pick unearthed the bag of jewels; but he did not observe it, and continued hewing at the soil.

"Master," said I, "there is the treasure."

He seemed to waken from a dream. "Where?" he cried; and then, seeing it before his eyes, "Can
this be possible?" he added. "I must be light-headed. Girl," he cried suddenly, with the same
screaming tone of voice that I had once before observed, "what is wrong? is this swamp accursed?"

"It is a grave," I answered. "You will not go out alive; and as for me, my life is in God's hands."

He fell upon the ground like a man struck by a blow, but whether from the effect of my words,
or from sudden seizure of the malady, I cannot tell. Pretty soon he raised his head. "You have
brought me here to die," he said; "at the risk of your own days, you have condemned me. Why?"

"To save my honour," I replied. "Bear me out that I have warned you. Greed of these pebbles,
and not I, has been your undoer."

He took out his revolver and handed it to me. "You see," he said, "I could have killed you
even yet. But I am dying, as you say; nothing could save me; and my bill is long enough already.
Dear me, dear me," he said, looking in my face with a curious, puzzled, and pathetic look,
like a dull child at school, "if there be a judgment afterwards, my bill is long enough."

At that, I broke into a passion of weeping, crawled at his feet, kissed his hands, begged his
forgiveness, put the pistol back into his grasp, and besought him to avenge his death; for
indeed, if with my life I could have bought back his, I had not balanced at the cost. But he
was determined, the poor soul, that I should yet more bitterly regret my act.

"I have nothing to forgive," said he. "Dear Heaven, what a thing is an old fool! I thought,
upon my word, you had taken quite a fancy to me."

He was seized, at the same time, with a dreadful, swimming dizziness, clung to me like a child,
and called upon the name of some woman. Presently this spasm, which I watched with choking
tears, lessened and died away; and he came again to the full possession of his mind. "I must
write my will," he said. "Get out my pocket-book." I did so, and he wrote hurriedly on one
page with a pencil. "Do not let my son know," he said; "he is a cruel dog, is my son Philip;
do not let him know how you have paid me out"; and then all of a sudden, "God," he cried, "I
am blind," and clapped both hands before his eyes; and then again, and in a groaning whisper,
"Don't leave me to the crabs!" I swore I would be true to him so long as a pulse stirred; and
I redeemed my promise. I sat there and watched him, as I had watched my father; but with what
different, with what appalling thoughts! Through the long afternoon, he gradually sank. All
that while, I fought an uphill battle to shield him from the swarms of ants and the clouds
of mosquitoes: the prisoner of my crime. The night fell, the roar of insects instantly redoubled
in the dark arcades of the swamp; and still I was not sure that he had breathed his last. At
length, the flesh of his hand, which I yet held in mine, grew chill between my fingers, and
I knew that I was free.

I took his pocket-book and the revolver, being resolved rather to die than to be captured,
and, laden besides with the basket and the bag of gems, set forward towards the north. The
swamp, at that hour of the night, was filled with a continuous din: animals and insects of
all kinds and all inimical to life, contributing their parts. Yet in the midst of this turmoil
of sound, I walked as though my eyes were bandaged, beholding nothing. The soil sank under
my foot, with a horrid, slippery consistence, as though I were walking among toads; the touch
of the thick wall of foliage, by which alone I guided myself, affrighted me like the touch
of serpents; the darkness checked my breathing like a gag; indeed, I have never suffered such
extremes of fear as during that nocturnal walk, nor have I ever known a more sensible relief
than when I found the path beginning to mount and to grow firmer under foot, and saw, although
still some way in front of me, the silver brightness of the moon.

Presently I had crossed the last of the jungle, and come forth amongst noble and lofty woods,
clean rock, the clean, dry dust, the aromatic smell of mountain plants that had been baked
all day in sunlight, and the expressive silence of the night. My negro blood had carried me
unhurt across that reeking and pestiferous morass; by mere good fortune, I had escaped the
crawling and stinging vermin with which it was alive; and I had now before me the easier portion
of my enterprise, to cross the isle and to make good my arrival at the haven and my acceptance
on the English yacht. It was impossible by night to follow such a track as my father had described;
and I was casting about for any landmark and, in my ignorance, vainly consulting the disposition
of the stars, when there fell upon my ear, from somewhere far in front, the sound of many voices
hurriedly singing.

I scarce knew upon what grounds I acted; but I shaped my steps in the direction of that sound;
and in a quarter of an hour's walking, came unperceived to the margin of an open glade. It
was lighted by the strong moon and by the flames of a fire. In the midst there stood a little
low and rude building, surmounted by a cross: a chapel, as I then remembered to have heard,
long since desecrated and given over to the rites of Hoodoo. Hard by the steps of entrance
was a black mass, continually agitated and stirring to and fro as if with inarticulate life;
and this I presently perceived to be a heap of cocks, hares, dogs, and other birds and animals,
still struggling, but helplessly tethered and cruelly tossed one upon another. Both the fire
and the chapel were surrounded by a ring of kneeling Africans, both men and women. Now they
would raise their palms half closed to Heaven, with a peculiar, passionate gesture of supplication;
now they would bow their heads and spread their hands before them on the ground. As the double
movement passed and repassed along the line, the heads kept rising and falling, like waves
upon the sea; and still, as if in time to these gesticulations, the hurried chant continued.
I stood spell-bound, knowing that my life depended by a hair, knowing that I had stumbled on
a celebration of the rites of Hoodoo.

Presently the door of the chapel opened and there came forth a tall negro, entirely nude, and
bearing in his hand the sacrificial knife. He was followed by an apparition still more strange
and shocking: Madam Mendizabal, naked also, and carrying in both hands, and raised to the level
of her face, an open basket of wicker. It was filled with coiling snakes; and these, as she
stood there with the uplifted basket, shot through the osier grating and curled about her arms.
At the sight of this, the fervour of the crowd seemed to swell suddenly higher; and the chant
rose in pitch and grew more irregular in time and accent. Then, at a sign from the tall negro,
where he stood, motionless and smiling, in the moon- and fire-light, the singing died away,
and there began the second stage of this barbarous and bloody celebration. From different parts
of the ring, one after another, man or woman, ran forth into the midst; ducked, with that same
gesture of the thrown-up hand, before the priestess and her snakes; and, with various adjurations,
uttered aloud the blackest wishes of the heart. Death and disease were the favours usually
invoked: the death or the disease of enemies or rivals; some calling down these plagues upon
the nearest of their own blood, and one, to whom I swear I had been never less than kind, invoking
them upon myself. At each petition, the tall negro, still smiling, picked up some bird or animal
from the heaving mass upon his left, slew it with the knife, and tossed its body on the ground.
At length, it seemed, it reached the turn of the high priestess. She set down the basket on
the steps, moved into the centre of the ring, grovelled in the dust before the reptiles, and
still grovelling lifted up her voice, between speech and singing, and with so great, with so
insane a fervour of excitement, as struck a sort of horror through my blood.

"Power," she began, "whose name we do not utter; power that is neither good nor evil, but below
them both; stronger than good, greater than evil--all my life long I have adored and served
thee. Who has shed blood upon thine altars? whose voice is broken with the singing of thy praises?
whose limbs are faint before their age with leaping in thy revels? Who has slain the child
of her body? I," she cried, "I, Metamnbogu! By my own name, I name myself. I tear away the
veil. I would be served or perish. Hear me, slime of the fat swamp, blackness of the thunder,
venom of the serpent's udder--hear or slay me! I would have two things, O shapeless one, O
horror of emptiness--two things, or die! The blood of my white-faced husband; oh! give me that;
he is the enemy of Hoodoo; give me blood! And yet another, O racer of the blind winds, O germinator
in the ruins of the dead, O root of life, root of corruption! I grow old, I grow hideous; I
am known, I am hunted for my life: let thy servant then lay by this outworn body; let thy chief
priestess turn again to the blossom of her days, and be a girl once more, and the desired of
all men, even as in the past! And, O lord and master, as I here ask a marvel not yet wrought
since we were torn from the old land, have I not prepared the sacrifice in which thy soul delighteth--the
kid without the horns?"

Even as she uttered the words, there was a great rumour of joy through all the circle of worshippers;
it rose, and fell, and rose again; and swelled at last into rapture, when the tall negro, who
had stepped an instant into the chapel, reappeared before the door, carrying in his arms the
body of the slave-girl, Cora. I know not if I saw what followed. When next my mind awoke to
a clear knowledge, Cora was laid upon the steps before the serpents; the negro with the knife
stood over her; the knife rose; and at this I screamed out in my great horror, bidding them,
in God's name, to pause.

A stillness fell upon the mob of cannibals. A moment more, and they must have thrown off this
stupor, and I infallibly have perished. But Heaven had designed to save me. The silence of
these wretched men was not yet broken, when there arose, in the empty night, a sound louder
than the roar of any European tempest, swifter to travel than the wings of any Eastern wind.
Blackness engulfed the world: blackness, stabbed across from every side by intricate and blinding
lightning. Almost in the same second, at one world-swallowing stride, the heart of the tornado
reached the clearing. I heard an agonising crash, and the light of my reason was overwhelmed.

When I recovered consciousness, the day was come. I was unhurt; the trees close about me had
not lost a bough; and I might have thought at first that the tornado was a feature in a dream.
It was otherwise indeed; for when I looked abroad, I perceived I had escaped destruction by
a hand's-breadth. Right through the forest, which here covered hill and dale, the storm had
ploughed a lane of ruin. On either hand, the trees waved uninjured in the air of the morning;
but in the forthright course of its advance, the hurricane had left no trophy standing. Everything
in that line, tree, man, or animal, the desecrated chapel and the votaries of Hoodoo, had been
subverted and destroyed in that brief spasm of anger of the powers of air. Everything but a
yard or two beyond the line of its passage, humble flower, lofty tree, and the poor vulnerable
maid who now knelt to pay her gratitude to Heaven, awoke unharmed in the crystal purity and
peace of the new day.

To move by the path of the tornado was a thing impossible to man, so wildly were the wrecks
of the tall forest piled together by that fugitive convulsion. I crossed it indeed; with such
labour and patience, with so many dangerous slips and falls, as left me, at the farther side,
bankrupt alike of strength and courage. There I sat down awhile to recruit my forces; and as
I ate (how should I bless the kindliness of Heaven!), my eye, flitting to and fro in the colonnade
of the great trees, alighted on a trunk that had been blazed. Yes, by the directing hand of
Providence, I had been conducted to the very track I was to follow. With what a light heart
I now set forth, and walking with how glad a step traversed the uplands of the isle!

It was hard upon the hour of noon when I came, all tattered and wayworn, to the summit of a
steep descent, and looked below me on the sea. About all the coast, the surf, roused by the
tornado of the night, beat with a particular fury and made a fringe of snow. Close at my feet
I saw a haven, set in precipitous and palm-crowned bluffs of rock. Just outside, a ship was
heaving on the surge, so trimly sparred, so glossily painted, so elegant and point-device in
every feature, that my heart was seized with admiration. The English colours blew from her
masthead; and, from my high station, I caught glimpses of her snowy planking, as she rolled
on the uneven deep, and saw the sun glitter on the brass of her deck furniture. There, then,
was my ship of refuge; and of all my difficulties only one remained: to get on board of her.

Half an hour later, I issued at last out of the woods on the margin of a cove, into whose jaws
the tossing and blue billows entered, and along whose shores they broke with a surprising loudness.
A wooded promontory hid the yacht; and I had walked some distance round the beach, in what
appeared to be a virgin solitude, when my eye fell on a boat, drawn into a natural harbour,
where it rocked in safety, but deserted. I looked about for those who should have manned her;
and presently, in the immediate entrance of the wood, spied the red embers of a fire and, stretched
around in various attitudes, a party of slumbering mariners. To these I drew near: most were
black, a few white; but all were dressed with the conspicuous decency of yachtsmen; and one,
from his peaked cap and glittering buttons, I rightly divined to be an officer. Him, then,
I touched upon the shoulder. He started up; the sharpness of his movement woke the rest; and
they all stared upon me in surprise.

"What do you want?" inquired the officer.

"To go on board the yacht," I answered.

I thought they all seemed disconcerted at this; and the officer, with something of sharpness,
asked me who I was. Now I had determined to conceal my name until I met Sir George; and the
first name that rose to my lips was that of the Señora Mendizabal. At the word, there went
a shock about the little party of seamen; the negroes stared at me with indescribable eagerness,
the whites themselves with something of a scared surprise; and instantly the spirit of mischief
prompted me to add: "And if the name is new to your ears, call me Metamnbogu."

I had never seen an effect so wonderful. The negroes threw their hands into the air, with the
same gesture I remarked the night before about the Hoodoo camp-fire; first one, and then another,
ran forward and kneeled down and kissed the skirts of my torn dress; and when the white officer
broke out swearing and calling to know if they were mad, the coloured seamen took him by the
shoulders, dragged him on one side till they were out of hearing, and surrounded him with open
mouths and extravagant pantomime. The officer seemed to struggle hard; he laughed aloud, and
I saw him make gestures of dissent and protest; but in the end, whether overcome by reason
or simply weary of resistance, he gave in--approached me civilly enough, but with something
of a sneering manner underneath--and touching his cap, "My lady," said he, "if that is what
you are, the boat is ready."

My reception on board the Nemorosa (for so the yacht was named) partook of the same mingled
nature. We were scarcely within hail of that great and elegant fabric, where she lay rolling
gunwale under and churning the blue sea to snow, before the bulwarks were lined with the heads
of a great crowd of seamen, black, white, and yellow; and these and the few who manned the
boat began exchanging shouts in some lingua franca incomprehensible to me. All eyes were directed
on the passenger; and once more I saw the negroes toss up their hands to Heaven, but now as
if with passionate wonder and delight.

At the head of the gangway, I was received by another officer, a gentlemanly man with blond
and bushy whiskers; and to him I addressed my demand to see Sir George.

"But this is not----" he cried, and paused.

"I know it," returned the other officer, who had brought me from the shore. "But what the devil
can we do? Look at all the niggers!"

I followed his direction; and as my eye lighted upon each, the poor ignorant Africans ducked,
and bowed, and threw their hands into the air, as though in the presence of a creature half
divine. Apparently the officer with the whiskers had instantly come round to the opinion of
his subaltern; for he now addressed me with every signal of respect.

"Sir George is at the island, my lady," said he: "for which, with your ladyship's permission,
I shall immediately make all sail. The cabins are prepared. Steward, take Lady Greville below."

Under this new name, then, and so captivated by surprise that I could neither think nor speak,
I was ushered into a spacious and airy cabin, hung about with weapons and surrounded by divans.
The steward asked for my commands; but I was by this time so wearied, bewildered, and disturbed,
that I could only wave him to leave me to myself, and sink upon a pile of cushions. Presently,
by the changed motion of the ship, I knew her to be under way; my thoughts, so far from clarifying,
grew the more distracted and confused; dreams began to mingle and confound them; and at length,
by insensible transition, I sank into a dreamless slumber.

When I awoke, the day and night had passed, and it was once more morning. The world on which
I reopened my eyes swam strangely up and down; the jewels in the bag that lay beside me clinked
together ceaselessly; the clock and the barometer wagged to and fro like pendulums; and overhead,
seamen were singing out at their work, and coils of rope clattering and thumping on the deck.
Yet it was long before I had divined that I was at sea; long before I had recalled, one after
another, the tragical, mysterious, and inexplicable events that had brought me where I was.

When I had done so, I thrust the jewels, which I was surprised to find had been respected,
into the bosom of my dress; and, seeing a silver bell hard by upon a table, rang it loudly.
The steward instantly appeared; I asked for food; and he proceeded to lay the table, regarding
me the while with a disquieting and pertinacious scrutiny. To relieve myself of my embarrassment,
I asked him, with as fair a show of ease as I could muster, if it were usual for yachts to
carry so numerous a crew?

"Madam," said he, "I know not who you are, nor what mad desire has induced you to usurp a name
and an appalling destiny that are not yours. I warn you from the soul. No sooner arrived at
the island----"

At this moment he was interrupted by the whiskered officer, who had entered unperceived behind
him, and now laid a hand upon his shoulder. The sudden pallor, the deadly and sick fear that
was imprinted on the steward's face, formed a startling addition to his words.

"Parker!" said the officer, and pointed towards the door.

"Yes, Mr. Kentish," said the steward. "For God's sake, Mr. Kentish!" And vanished, with a white
face, from the cabin.

Thereupon the officer bade me sit down, and began to help me, and join in the meal. "I fill
your ladyship's glass," said he, and handed me a tumbler of neat rum.

"Sir," cried I, "do you expect me to drink this?"

He laughed heartily. "Your ladyship is so much changed," said he, "that I no longer expect
any one thing more than any other."

Immediately after, a white seaman entered the cabin, saluted both Mr. Kentish and myself, and
informed the officer there was a sail in sight, which was bound to pass us very close, and
that Mr. Harland was in doubt about the colours.

"Being so near the island?" asked Mr. Kentish.

"That was what Mr. Harland said, sir," returned the sailor, with a scrape.

"Better not, I think," said Mr. Kentish. "My compliments to Mr. Harland; and if she seem a
lively boat, give her the stars and stripes; but if she be dull, and we can easily outsail
her, show John Dutchman. That is always another word for incivility at sea; so we can disregard
a hail or a flag of distress, without attracting notice."

As soon as the sailor had gone on deck, I turned to the officer in wonder. "Mr. Kentish, if
that be your name," said I, "are you ashamed of your own colours?"

"Your ladyship refers to the 'Jolly Roger'?" he inquired, with perfect gravity; and, immediately
after, went into peals of laughter. "Pardon me," said he; "but here for the first time, I recognise
your ladyship's impetuosity." Nor, try as I pleased, could I extract from him any explanation
of this mystery, but only oily and commonplace evasion.

While we were thus occupied, the movement of the Nemorosa gradually became less violent; its
speed at the same time diminished; and presently after, with a sullen plunge, the anchor was
discharged into the sea. Kentish immediately rose, offered his arm, and conducted me on deck;
where I found we were lying in a roadstead among many low and rocky islets, hovered about by
an innumerable cloud of sea-fowl. Immediately under our board, a somewhat larger isle was green
with trees, set with a few low buildings and approached by a pier of very crazy workmanship;
and a little inshore of us, a smaller vessel lay at anchor.

I had scarce time to glance to the four quarters ere a boat was lowered. I was handed in, Kentish
took place beside me, and we pulled briskly to the pier. A crowd of villainous, armed loiterers,
both black and white, looked on upon our landing; and again the word passed about among the
negroes, and again I was received with prostrations and the same gesture of the flung-up hand.
By this, what with the appearance of these men and the lawless, seagirt spot in which I found
myself, my courage began a little to decline, and, clinging to the arm of Mr. Kentish, I begged
him to tell me what it meant.

"Nay, madam," he returned, "you know." And leading me smartly through the crowd, which continued
to follow at a considerable distance, and at which he still kept looking back, I thought, with
apprehension, he brought me to a low house that stood alone in an encumbered yard, opened the
door, and begged me to enter.

"But why?" said I. "I demand to see Sir George."

"Madam," returned Mr. Kentish, looking suddenly as black as thunder, "to drop all fence, I
know neither who nor what you are; beyond the fact that you are not the person whose name you
have assumed. But be what you please, spy, ghost, devil, or most ill-judging jester, if you
do not immediately enter that house, I will cut you to the earth." And even as he spoke, he
threw an uneasy glance behind him at the following crowd of blacks.

I did not wait to be twice threatened; I obeyed at once and with a palpitating heart; and the
next moment, the door was locked from the outside and the key withdrawn. The interior was long,
low, and quite unfurnished, but filled, almost from end to end, with sugar-cane, tar-barrels,
old tarry rope, and other incongruous and highly inflammable material; and not only was the
door locked, but the solitary window barred with iron.

I was by this time so exceedingly bewildered and afraid, that I would have given years of my
life to be once more the slave of Mr. Caulder. I still stood, with my hands clasped, the image
of despair, looking about me on the lumber of the room or raising my eyes to Heaven; when there
appeared, outside the window bars, the face of a very black negro, who signed to me imperiously
to draw near. I did so, and he instantly, and with every mark of fervour, addressed me a long
speech in some unknown and barbarous tongue.

"I declare," I cried, clasping my brow, "I do not understand one syllable."

"Not?" he said in Spanish. "Great, great, are the powers of Hoodoo! Her very mind is changed!
But, O chief priestess, why have you suffered yourself to be shut into this cage? why did you
not call your slaves at once to your defence? Do you not see that all has been prepared to
murder you? at a spark, this flimsy house will go in flames; and alas! who shall then be the
chief priestess? and what shall be the profit of the miracle?"

"Heavens!" cried I, "can I not see Sir George? I must, I must, come by speech of him. Oh, bring
me to Sir George!" And, my terror fairly mastering my courage, I fell upon my knees and began
to pray to all the saints.

"Lordy!" cried the negro, "here they come!" And his black head was instantly withdrawn from
the window.

"I never heard such nonsense in my life," exclaimed a voice.

"Why, so we all say, Sir George," replied the voice of Mr. Kentish. "But put yourself in our
place. The niggers were near two to one. And upon my word, if you'll excuse me, sir, considering
the notion they have taken in their heads, I regard it as precious fortunate for all of us
that the mistake occurred."

"This is no question of fortune, sir," returned Sir George. "It is a question of my orders,
and you may take my word for it, Kentish, either Harland, or yourself, or Parker--or, by George,
all three of you!--shall swing for this affair. These are my sentiments. Give me the key and
be off."

Immediately after, the key turned in the lock; and there appeared upon the threshold a gentleman,
between forty and fifty, with a very open countenance and of a stout and personable figure.

"My dear young lady," said he, "who the devil may you be?"

I told him all my story in one rush of words. He heard me, from the first, with an amazement
you can scarcely picture, but when I came to the death of the Señora Mendizabal in the tornado,
he fairly leaped into the air.

"My dear child," he cried, clasping me in his arms, "excuse a man who might be your father!
This is the best news I ever had since I was born; for that hag of a mulatto was no less a
person than my wife." He sat down upon a tar-barrel, as if unmanned by joy. "Dear me," said
he, "I declare this tempts me to believe in Providence. And what," he added, "can I do for you?"

"Sir George," said I, "I am already rich: all that I ask is your protection."

"Understand one thing," he said, with great energy: "I will never marry."

"I had not ventured to propose it," I exclaimed, unable to restrain my mirth; "I only seek
to be conveyed to England, the natural home of the escaped slave."

"Well," returned Sir George, "frankly I owe you something for this exhilarating news; besides,
your father was of use to me. Now, I have made a small competence in business--a jewel mine,
a sort of naval agency, et cætera, and I am on the point of breaking up my company, and retiring
to my place in Devonshire to pass a plain old age, unmarried. One good turn deserves another:
if you swear to hold your tongue about this island, these little bonfire arrangements, and
the whole episode of my unfortunate marriage, why, I'll carry you home aboard the Nemorosa."

I eagerly accepted his conditions.

"One thing more," said he. "My late wife was some sort of a sorceress among the blacks; and
they are all persuaded she has come alive again in your agreeable person. Now, you will have
the goodness to keep up that fancy, if you please; and to swear to them, on the authority of
Hoodoo or whatever his name may be, that I am from this moment quite a sacred character."

"I swear it," said I, "by my father's memory; and that is a vow that I will never break."

"I have considerably better hold on you than any oath," returned Sir George, with a chuckle;
"for you are not only an escaped slave, but have, by your own account, a considerable amount
of stolen property."

I was struck dumb; I saw it was too true; in a glance, I recognised that these jewels were
no longer mine; with similar quickness, I decided they should be restored, ay, if it cost me
the liberty that I had just regained. Forgetful of all else, forgetful of Sir George, who sat
and watched me with a smile, I drew out Mr. Caulder's pocket-book and turned to the page on
which the dying man had scrawled his testament. How shall I describe the agony of happiness
and remorse with which I read it! for my victim had not only set me free, but bequeathed to
me the bag of jewels.

My plain tale draws towards a close. Sir George and I, in my character of his rejuvenated wife,
displayed ourselves arm-in-arm among the negroes, and were cheered and followed to the place
of embarkation. There, Sir George, turning about, made a speech to his old companions, in which
he thanked and bade them farewell with a very manly spirit; and towards the end of which he
fell on some expressions which I still remember. "If any of you gentry lose your money," he
said, "take care you do not come to me; for in the first place, I shall do my best to have
you murdered; and if that fails, I hand you over to the law. Blackmail won't do for me. I'll
rather risk all upon a cast, than be pulled to pieces by degrees. I'll rather be found out
and hang, than give a doit to one man-jack of you." That same night we got under way and crossed
to the port of New Orleans, whence, as a sacred trust, I sent the pocket-book to Mr. Caulder's
son. In a week's time, the men were all paid off; new hands were shipped; and the Nemorosa
weighed her anchor for Old England.

A more delightful voyage it were hard to fancy. Sir George, of course, was not a conscientious
man; but he had an unaffected gaiety of character that naturally endeared him to the young;
and it was interesting to hear him lay out his projects for the future, when he should be returned
to parliament, and place at the service of the nation his experience of marine affairs. I asked
him if his notion of piracy upon a private yacht were not original. But he told me, no. "A
yacht, Miss Valdevia," he observed, "is a chartered nuisance. Who smuggles? Who robs the salmon
rivers of the west of Scotland? Who cruelly beats the keepers if they dare to intervene? The
crews and the proprietors of yachts. All I have done is to extend the line a trifle; and if
you ask me for my unbiassed opinion, I do not suppose that I am in the least alone."

In short we were the best of friends, and lived like father and daughter; though I still withheld
from him, of course, that respect which is only due to moral excellence.

We were still some days' sail from England, when Sir George obtained, from an outward-bound
ship, a packet of newspapers; and from that fatal hour my misfortunes recommenced. He sat,
the same evening, in the cabin, reading the news, and making savoury comments on the decline
of England and the poor condition of the navy; when I suddenly observed him to change countenance.

"Hullo!" said he, "this is bad; this is deuced bad, Miss Valdevia. You would not listen to
sound sense, you would send that pocket-book to that man Caulder's son."

"Sir George," said I, "it was my duty."

"You are prettily paid for it, at least," says he; "and much as I regret it, I, for one, am
done with you. This fellow Caulder demands your extradition."

"But a slave," I returned, "is safe in England."

"Yes, by George!" replied the baronet; "but it's not a slave, Miss Valdevia, it's a thief that
he demands. He has quietly destroyed the will; and now accuses you of robbing your father's
bankrupt estate of jewels to the value of a hundred thousand pounds."

I was so much overcome by indignation at this hateful charge and concern for my unhappy fate
that the genial baronet made haste to put me more at ease.

"Do not be cast down," said he. "Of course, I wash my hands of you myself. A man in my position--baronet,
old family, and all that--cannot possibly be too particular about the company he keeps. But
I am a deuced good-humoured old boy, let me tell you, when not ruffled; and I will do the best
I can to put you right. I will lend you a trifle of ready money, give you the address of an
excellent lawyer in London, and find a way to set you on shore unsuspected."

He was in every particular as good as his word. Four days later, the Nemorosa sounded her way,
under the cloak of a dark night, into a certain haven of the coast of England; and a boat,
rowing with muffled oars, set me ashore upon the beach within a stone's throw of a railway
station. Thither, guided by Sir George's directions, I groped a devious way; and, finding a
bench upon the platform, sat me down, wrapped in a man's fur greatcoat, to await the coming
of the day. It was still dark when a light was struck behind one of the windows of the building;
nor had the east begun to kindle to the warmer colours of the dawn, before a porter, carrying
a lantern, issued from the door and found himself face to face with the unfortunate Teresa.
He looked all about him; in the grey twilight of the dawn, the haven was seen to lie deserted,
and the yacht had long since disappeared.

"Who are you?" he cried.

"I am a traveller," said I.

"And where do you come from?" he asked.

"I'm going, by the first train, to London," I replied.

In such manner, like a ghost or a new creation, was Teresa with her bag of jewels landed on
the shores of England; in this silent fashion, without history or name, she took her place
among the millions of a new country.

Since then, I have lived by the expedients of my lawyer, lying concealed in quiet lodgings,
dogged by the spies of Cuba, and not knowing at what hour my liberty and honour may be lost.

THE BROWN BOX (concluded)

The effect of this tale on the mind of Harry Desborough was instant and convincing. The Fair
Cuban had been already the loveliest, she now became, in his eyes, the most romantic, the most
innocent and the most unhappy of her sex. He was bereft of words to utter what he felt: what
pity, what admiration, what youthful envy of a career so vivid and adventurous. "Oh, madam!"
he began; and finding no language adequate to that apostrophe, caught up her hand and wrung
it in his own. "Count upon me," he added, with bewildered fervour; and, getting somehow or
other out of the apartment and from the circle of that radiant sorceress, he found himself
in the strange out-of-doors, beholding dull houses, wondering at dull passers-by, a fallen
angel. She had smiled upon him as he left, and with how significant, how beautiful a smile!
The memory lingered in his heart; and when he found his way to a certain restaurant where music
was performed, flutes (as it were of Paradise) accompanied his meal. The strings went to the
melody of that parting smile; they paraphrased and glossed it in the sense that he desired;
and for the first time in his plain and somewhat dreary life, he perceived himself to have
a taste for music.

The next day, and the next, his meditations moved to that delectable air. Now he saw her, and
was favoured; now saw her not at all; now saw her and was put by. The fall of her foot upon
the stair entranced him; the books that he sought out and read were books on Cuba and spoke
of her indirectly; nay, and in the very landlady's parlour, he found one that told of precisely
such a hurricane and, down to the smallest detail, confirmed (had confirmation been required)
the truth of her recital. Presently he began to fall into that prettiest mood of a young love,
in which the lover scorns himself for his presumption. Who was he, the dull one, the commonplace
unemployed, the man without adventure, the impure, the untruthful, to aspire to such a creature
made of fire and air, and hallowed and adorned by such incomparable passages of life? What
should he do, to be more worthy? by what devotion, call down the notice of these eyes to so
terrene a being as himself?

He betook himself, thereupon, to the rural privacy of the square, where, being a lad of a kind
heart, he had made himself a circle of acquaintances among its shy frequenters, the half-domestic
cats and the visitors that hung before the windows of the Children's Hospital. There he walked,
considering the depth of his demerit and the height of the adored one's super-excellence; now
lighting upon earth to say a pleasant word to the brother of some infant invalid; now, with
a great heave of breath remembering the queen of women, and the sunshine of his life.

What was he to do? Teresa, he had observed, was in the habit of leaving the house towards afternoon:
she might, perchance, run danger from some Cuban emissary, when the presence of a friend might
turn the balance in her favour: how, then, if he should follow her? To offer his company would
seem like an intrusion; to dog her openly were a manifest impertinence; he saw himself reduced
to a more stealthy part, which, though in some ways distasteful to his mind, he did not doubt
that he could practise with the skill of a detective.

The next day he proceeded to put his plan in action. At the corner of Tottenham Court Road,
however, the Señorita suddenly turned back, and met him face to face, with every mark of pleasure
and surprise.

"Ah, Señor, I am sometimes fortunate!" she cried. "I was looking for a messenger"; and with
the sweetest of smiles she despatched him to the east end of London, to an address which he
was unable to find. This was a bitter pill to the knight-errant; but when he returned at night,
worn out with fruitless wandering and dismayed by his fiasco, the lady received him with a
friendly gaiety, protesting that all was for the best, since she had changed her mind and long
since repented of her message.

Next day he resumed his labours, glowing with pity and courage, and determined to protect Teresa
with his life. But a painful shock awaited him. In the narrow and silent Hanway Street, she
turned suddenly about and addressed him with a manner and a light in her eyes, that were new
to the young man's experience.

"Do I understand that you follow me, Señor?" she cried. "Are these the manners of the English
gentleman?"

Harry confounded himself in the most abject apologies and prayers to be forgiven, vowed to
offend no more, and was at length dismissed, crestfallen and heavy of heart. The check was
final; he gave up that road to service; and began once more to hang about the square or on
the terrace, filled with remorse and love, admirable and idiotic, a fit object for the scorn
and envy of older men. In these idle hours, while he was courting fortune for a sight of the
beloved, it fell out naturally that he should observe the manners and appearance of such as
came about the house. One person alone was the occasional visitor of the young lady: a man
of considerable stature and distinguished only by the doubtful ornament of a chin-beard in
the style of an American deacon. Something in his appearance grated upon Harry; this distaste
grew upon him in the course of days; and when at length he mustered courage to inquire of the
Fair Cuban who this was, he was yet more dismayed by her reply.

"That gentleman," said she, a smile struggling to her face, "that gentleman, I will not attempt
to conceal from you, desires my hand in marriage, and presses me with the most respectful ardour.
Alas, what am I to say? I, the forlorn Teresa, how shall I refuse or accept such protestations?"

Harry feared to say more; a horrid pang of jealousy transfixed him; and he had scarce the strength
of mind to take his leave with decency. In the solitude of his own chamber, he gave way to
every manifestation of despair. He passionately adored the Señorita; but it was not only the
thought of her possible union with another that distressed his soul, it was the indefeasible
conviction that her suitor was unworthy. To a duke, a bishop, a victorious general, or any
man adorned with obvious qualities, he had resigned her with a sort of bitter joy; he saw himself
follow the wedding party from a great way off; he saw himself return to the poor house, then
robbed of its jewel; and while he could have wept for his despair, he felt he could support
it nobly. But this affair looked otherwise. The man was patently no gentleman; he had a startled,
skulking, guilty bearing; his nails were black, his eyes evasive, his love perhaps was a pretext;
he was perhaps, under this deep disguise, a Cuban emissary! Harry swore that he would satisfy
these doubts; and the next evening, about the hour of the usual visit, he posted himself at
a spot whence his eye commanded the three issues of the square.

Presently after, a four-wheeler rumbled to the door; and the man with the chin-beard alighted,
paid off the cabman, and was seen by Harry to enter the house with a brown box hoisted on his
back. Half an hour later, he came forth again without the box, and struck eastward at a rapid
walk; and Desborough, with the same skill and caution that he had displayed in following Teresa,
proceeded to dog the steps of her admirer. The man began to loiter, studying with apparent
interest the wares of the small fruiterer or tobacconist; twice he returned hurriedly upon
his former course; and then, as though he had suddenly conquered a moment's hesitation, once
more set forth with resolute and swift steps in the direction of Lincoln's Inn. At length,
in a deserted by-street, he turned; and coming up to Harry with a countenance which seemed
to have become older and whiter, inquired with some severity of speech if he had not had the
pleasure of seeing the gentleman before.

"You have, sir," said Harry, somewhat abashed, but with a good show of stoutness; "and I will
not deny that I was following you on purpose. Doubtless," he added, for he supposed that all
men's minds must still be running on Teresa, "you can divine my reason."

At these words, the man with the chin-beard was seized with a palsied tremor. He seemed, for
some seconds, to seek the utterance which his fear denied him; and then, whipping sharply about,
he took to his heels at the most furious speed of running.

Harry was at first so taken aback that he neglected to pursue; and by the time he had recovered
his wits, his best expedition was only rewarded by a glimpse of the man with the chin-beard
mounting into a hansom, which immediately after disappeared into the moving crowds of Holborn.

Puzzled and dismayed by this unusual behaviour, Harry returned to the house in Queen Square,
and ventured for the first time to knock at the fair Cuban's door. She bade him enter, and
he found her kneeling with rather a disconsolate air beside a brown wooden trunk.

"Señorita," he broke out, "I doubt whether that man's character is what he wishes you to believe.
His manner, when he found, and indeed when I admitted, that I was following him, was not the
manner of an honest man."

"Oh!" she cried, throwing up her hands as in desperation, "Don Quixote, Don Quixote, have you
again been tilting against windmills?" And then, with a laugh, "Poor soul!" she added, "how
you must have terrified him! For know that the Cuban authorities are here, and your poor Teresa
may soon be hunted down. Even yon humble clerk from my solicitor's office may find himself
at any moment the quarry of armed spies."

"A humble clerk!" cried Harry, "why, you told me yourself that he wished to marry you!"

"I thought you English like what you call a joke," replied the lady calmly. "As a matter of
fact he is my lawyer's clerk, and has been here to-night charged with disastrous news. I am
in sore straits, Señor Harry. Will you help me?"

At this most welcome word, the young man's heart exulted; and in the hope, pride, and self-esteem,
that kindled with the very thought of service, he forgot to dwell upon the lady's jest. "Can
you ask?" he cried. "What is there that I can do? Only tell me that."

With signs of an emotion that was certainly unfeigned, the Fair Cuban laid her hand upon the
box. "This box," she said, "contains my jewels, papers, and clothes; all, in a word, that still
connects me with Cuba and my dreadful past. They must now be smuggled out of England; or, by
the opinion of my lawyer, I am lost beyond remedy. To-morrow, on board the Irish packet, a
sure hand awaits the box; the problem still unsolved is to find some one to carry it as far
as Holyhead, to see it placed on board the steamer, and instantly return to town. Will you
be he? Will you leave to-morrow by the first train, punctually obey orders, bear still in mind
that you are surrounded by Cuban spies; and without so much as a look behind you, or a single
movement to betray your interest, leave the box where you have put it and come straight on
shore? Will you do this, and so save your friend?"

"I do not clearly understand ..." began Harry.

"No more do I," replied the Cuban. "It is not necessary that we should, so long as we obey
the lawyer's orders."

"Señorita," returned Harry gravely, "I think this, of course, a very little thing to do for
you, when I would willingly do all. But suffer me to say one word. If London is unsafe for
your treasures, it cannot long be safe for you; and indeed, if I at all fathom the plan of
your solicitor, I fear I may find you already fled on my return. I am not considered clever,
and can only speak out plainly what is in my heart: that I love you, and that I cannot bear
to lose all knowledge of you. I hope no more than to be your servant; I ask no more than just
that I shall hear of you. Oh, promise me so much!"

"You shall," she said, after a pause. "I promise you, you shall." But though she spoke with
earnestness, the marks of great embarrassment and a strong conflict of emotions appeared upon
her face.

"I wish to tell you," resumed Desborough, "in case of accidents...."

"Accidents!" she cried: "why do you say that?"

"I do not know," said he, "you may be gone before my return, and we may not meet again for
long. And so I wished you to know this: That since the day you gave me the cigarette, you have
never once, not once, been absent from my mind; and if it will in any way serve you, you may
crumple me up like that piece of paper, and throw me on the fire. I would love to die for you."

"Go!" she said, "Go now at once! My brain is in a whirl. I scarce know what we are talking.
Go; and good-night; and oh, may you come safe!"

Once back in his own room a fearful joy possessed the young man's mind; and as he recalled
her face struck suddenly white and the broken utterance of her last words, his heart at once
exulted and misgave him. Love had indeed looked upon him with a tragic mask; and yet what mattered,
since at least it was love--since at least she was commoved at their division? He got to bed
with these parti-coloured thoughts; passed from one dream to another all night long, the white
face of Teresa still haunting him, wrung with unspoken thoughts; and, in the grey of the dawn,
leaped suddenly out of bed, in a kind of horror. It was already time for him to rise. He dressed,
made his breakfast on cold food that had been laid for him the night before; and went down
to the room of his idol for the box. The door was open; a strange disorder reigned within;
the furniture all pushed aside, and the centre of the room left bare of impediment, as though
for the pacing of a creature with a tortured mind. There lay the box, however, and upon the
lid a paper with these words: "Harry, I hope to be back before you go. Teresa."

He sat down to wait, laying his watch before him on the table. She had called him Harry: that
should be enough, he thought, to fill the day with sunshine; and yet somehow the sight of that
disordered room still poisoned his enjoyment. The door of the bedchamber stood gaping open;
and though he turned aside his eyes as from a sacrilege, he could not but observe the bed had
not been slept in. He was still pondering what this should mean, still trying to convince himself
that all was well, when the moving needle of his watch summoned him to set forth without delay.
He was before all things a man of his word; ran round to Southampton Row to fetch a cab; and,
taking the box on the front seat, drove off towards the terminus.

The streets were scarcely awake; there was little to amuse the eye; and the young man's attention
centred on the dumb companion of his drive. A card was nailed upon one side, bearing the superscription:
"Miss Doolan, passenger to Dublin. Glass. With care." He thought with a sentimental shock that
the fair idol of his heart was perhaps driven to adopt the name of Doolan; and, as he still
studied the card, he was aware of a deadly black depression settling steadily upon his spirits.
It was in vain for him to contend against the tide; in vain that he shook himself or tried
to whistle: the sense of some impending blow was not to be averted. He looked out; in the long,
empty streets, the cab pursued its way without a trace of any follower. He gave ear; and over
and above the jolting of the wheels upon the road, he was conscious of a certain regular and
quiet sound that seemed to issue from the box. He put his ear to the cover; at one moment,
he seemed to perceive a delicate ticking; the next, the sound was gone, nor could his closest
hearkening recapture it. He laughed at himself; but still the gloom continued; and it was with
more than the common relief of an arrival, that he leaped from the cab before the station.

Probably enough on purpose, Teresa had named an hour some thirty minutes earlier than needful;
and when Harry had given the box into the charge of a porter, who set it on a truck, he proceeded
briskly to pace the platform. Presently the bookstall opened; and the young man was looking
at the books when he was seized by the arm. He turned and, though she was closely veiled, at
once recognised the Fair Cuban.

"Where is it?" she asked; and the sound of her voice surprised him.

"It?" he said. "What?"

"The box. Have it put on a cab instantly. I am in fearful haste."

He hurried to obey, marvelling at these changes, but not daring to trouble her with questions;
and when the cab had been brought round, and the box mounted on the front, she passed a little
way off upon the pavement and beckoned him to follow.

"Now," said she, still in those mechanical and hushed tones that had at first affected him,
"you must go on to Holyhead alone; go on board the steamer; and if you see a man in tartan
trousers and a pink scarf, say to him that all has been put off: if not," she added, with a
sobbing sigh, "it does not matter. So, good-bye."

"Teresa," said Harry, "get into your cab, and I will go along with you. You are in some distress,
perhaps some danger; and till I know the whole, not even you can make me leave you."

"You will not?" she asked. "Oh, Harry, it were better!"

"I will not," said Harry stoutly.

She looked at him for a moment through her veil; took his hand suddenly and sharply, but more
as if in fear than tenderness; and, still holding him, walked to the cab-door.

"Where are we to drive?" asked Harry.

"Home, quickly," she answered; "double fare!" And as soon as they had both mounted to their
places, the vehicle crazily trundled from the station.

Teresa leaned back in a corner. The whole way Harry could perceive her tears to flow under
her veil; but she vouchsafed no explanation. At the door of the house in Queen Square, both
alighted; and the cabman lowered the box, which Harry, glad to display his strength, received
upon his shoulders.

"Let the man take it," she whispered. "Let the man take it."

"I will do no such thing," said Harry cheerfully; and having paid the fare, he followed Teresa
through the door which she had opened with her key. The landlady and maid were gone upon their
morning errands; the house was empty and still; and as the rattling of the cab died away down
Gloucester Street, and Harry continued to ascend the stair with his burthen, he heard close
against his shoulders the same faint and muffled ticking as before. The lady, still preceding
him, opened the door of her room, and helped him to lower the box tenderly in the corner by
the window.

"And now," said Harry, "what is wrong?"

"You will not go away?" she cried, with a sudden break in her voice and beating her hands together
in the very agony of impatience. "Oh, Harry, Harry, go away! Oh, go, and leave me to the fate
that I deserve!"

"The fate?" repeated Harry. "What is this?"

"No fate," she resumed. "I do not know what I am saying. But I wish to be alone. You may come
back this evening, Harry; come again when you like; but leave me now, only leave me now!" And
then suddenly, "I have an errand," she exclaimed; "you cannot refuse me that!"

"No," replied Harry, "you have no errand. You are in grief or danger. Lift your veil and tell
me what it is."

"Then," she said, with a sudden composure, "you leave but one course open to me." And raising
the veil, she showed him a countenance from which every trace of colour had fled, eyes marred
with weeping, and a brow on which resolve had conquered fear. "Harry," she began, "I am not
what I seem."

"You have told me that before," said Harry, "several times."

"Oh, Harry, Harry," she cried, "how you shame me! But this is the God's truth. I am a dangerous
and wicked girl. My name is Clara Luxmore. I was never nearer Cuba than Penzance. From first
to last I have cheated and played with you. And what I am I dare not even name to you in words.
Indeed, until to-day, until the sleepless watches of last night, I never grasped the depth
and foulness of my guilt."

The young man looked upon her aghast. Then a generous current poured along his veins. "That
is all one," he said. "If you be all you say, you have the greater need of me."

"Is it possible," she exclaimed, "that I have schemed in vain? And will nothing drive you from
this house of death?"

"Of death?" he echoed.

"Death!" she cried: "death! In that box which you have dragged about London and carried on
your defenceless shoulders, sleep, at the trigger's mercy, the destroying energies of dynamite."

"My God!" cried Harry.

"Ah!" she continued wildly, "will you flee now? At any moment you may hear the click that sounds
the ruin of this building. I was sure M'Guire was wrong; this morning, before day, I flew to
Zero; he confirmed my fears; I beheld you, my beloved Harry, fall a victim to my own contrivances.
I knew then I loved you--Harry, will you go now? Will you not spare me this unwilling crime?"

Harry remained speechless, his eyes fixed upon the box: at last he turned to her.

"Is it," he asked hoarsely, "an infernal machine?"

Her lips formed the word "yes"; which her voice refused to utter.

With fearful curiosity, he drew near and bent above the box; in that still chamber, the ticking
was distinctly audible; and at the measured sound, the blood flowed back upon his heart.

"For whom?" he asked.

"What matters it?" she cried, seizing him by the arm. "If you may still be saved, what matter
questions?"

"God in Heaven!" cried Harry. "And the Children's Hospital! At whatever cost, this damned contrivance
must be stopped!"

"It cannot," she gasped. "The power of man cannot avert the blow. But you, Harry--you, my beloved--you
may still----"

And then from the box that lay so quietly in the corner, a sudden catch was audible, like the
catch of a clock before it strikes the hour. For one second, the two stared at each other with
lifted brows and stony eyes. Then Harry, throwing one arm over his face, with the other clutched
the girl to his breast and staggered against the wall.

A dull and startling thud resounded through the room; their eyes blinked against the coming
horror; and still clinging together like drowning people, they fell to the floor. Then followed
a prolonged and strident hissing as from the indignant pit; an offensive stench seized them
by the throat; the room was filled with dense and choking fumes.

Presently these began a little to disperse: and when at length they drew themselves, all limp
and shaken, to a sitting posture, the first object that greeted their vision was the box reposing
uninjured in its corner, but still leaking little wreaths of vapour round the lid.

"Oh, poor Zero!" cried the girl with a strange sobbing laugh. "Alas, poor Zero! This will break
his heart!"

THE SUPERFLUOUS MANSION (concluded)

Somerset ran straight upstairs; the door of the drawing-room, contrary to all custom, was unlocked;
and, bursting in, the young man found Zero seated on a sofa in an attitude of singular dejection.
Close beside him stood an untasted grog, the mark of strong preoccupation. The room besides
was in confusion: boxes had been tumbled to and fro; the floor was strewn with keys and other
implements; and in the midst of this disorder lay a lady's glove.

"I have come," cried Somerset, "to make an end of this. Either you will instantly abandon all
your schemes, or (cost what it may) I will denounce you to the police."

"Ah!" replied Zero, slowly shaking his head. "You are too late, dear fellow! I am already at
the end of all my hopes and fallen to be a laughing-stock and mockery. My reading," he added,
with a gentle despondency of manner, "has not been much among romances; yet I recall from one
a phrase that depicts my present state with critical exactitude; and you behold me sitting
here 'like a burst drum.'"

"What has befallen you?" cried Somerset.

"My last batch," retorted the plotter wearily, "like all the others, is a hollow mockery and
a fraud. In vain do I combine the elements; in vain adjust the springs; and I have now arrived
at such a pitch of disconsideration that (except yourself, dear fellow) I do not know a soul
that I can face. My subordinates themselves have turned upon me. What language have I heard
to-day, what illiberality of sentiment, what pungency of expression! She came once; I could
have pardoned that, for she was moved; but she returned, returned to announce to me this crushing
blow; and, Somerset, she was very inhumane. Yes, dear fellow, I have drunk a bitter cup; the
speech of females is remarkable for ... well, well! Denounce me, if you will; you but denounce
the dead. I am extinct. It is strange how, at this supreme crisis of my life, I should be haunted
by quotations from works of an inexact and even fanciful description; but here," he added,
"is another: 'Othello's occupation's gone.' Yes, dear Somerset, it is gone; I am no more a
dynamiter; and how, I ask you, after having tasted of these joys, am I to condescend to a less
glorious life?"

"I cannot describe how you relieve me," returned Somerset, sitting down on one of several boxes
that had been drawn out into the middle of the floor. "I had conceived a sort of maudlin toleration
for your character; I have a great distaste, besides, for anything in the nature of a duty;
and upon both grounds, your news delights me. But I seem to perceive," he added, "a certain
sound of ticking in this box."

"Yes," replied Zero, with the same slow weariness of manner, "I have set several of them going."

"My God!" cried Somerset, bounding to his feet. "Machines?"

"Machines!" returned the plotter bitterly. "Machines indeed! I blush to be their author. Alas!"
he said, burying his face in his hands, "that I should live to say it!"

"Madman!" cried Somerset, shaking him by the arm. "What am I to understand? Have you, indeed,
set these diabolical contrivances in motion? and do we stay here to be blown up?"

"'Hoist with his own petard?'" returned the plotter musingly. "One more quotation: strange!
But indeed my brain is struck with numbness. Yes, dear boy, I have, as you say, put my contrivances
in motion. The one on which you are sitting, I have timed for half an hour. Yon other----"

"Half an hour!" echoed Somerset, dancing with trepidation. "Merciful heavens, in half an hour?"

"Dear fellow, why so much excitement?" inquired Zero. "My dynamite is not more dangerous than
toffy; had I an only child, I would give it him to play with. You see this brick?" he continued,
lifting a cake of the infernal compound from the laboratory-table. "At a touch it should explode,
and that with such unconquerable energy as should bestrew the square with ruins. Well, now,
behold! I dash it on the floor."

Somerset sprang forward, and, with the strength of the very ecstasy of terror, wrested the
brick from his possession. "Heavens!" he cried, wiping his brow; and then with more care than
ever mother handled her first-born withal, gingerly transported the explosive to the far end
of the apartment; the plotter, his arms once more fallen to his side, dispiritedly watching him.

"It was entirely harmless," he sighed. "They describe it as burning like tobacco."

"In the name of fortune," cried Somerset, "what have I done to you, or what have you done to
yourself, that you should persist in this insane behaviour? If not for your own sake, then
for mine, let us depart from this doomed house, where I profess I have not the heart to leave
you; and then, if you will take my advice, and if your determination be sincere, you will instantly
quit this city, where no further occupation can detain you."

"Such, dear fellow, was my own design," replied the plotter. "I have, as you observe, no further
business here; and once I have packed a little bag, I shall ask you to share a frugal meal,
to go with me as far as to the station, and see the last of a broken-hearted man. And yet,"
he added, looking on the boxes with a lingering regret, "I should have liked to make quite
certain. I cannot but suspect my underlings of some mismanagement; it may be fond, but yet
I cherish that idea: it may be the weakness of a man of science, but yet," he cried, rising
into some energy, "I will never, I cannot if I try, believe that my poor dynamite has had fair
usage!"

"Five minutes!" said Somerset, glancing with horror at the timepiece. "If you do not instantly
buckle to your bag, I leave you."

"A few necessaries," returned Zero, "only a few necessaries, dear Somerset, and you behold
me ready."

He passed into the bedroom, and after an interval which seemed to draw out into eternity for
his unfortunate companion, he returned, bearing in his hand an open Gladstone bag. His movements
were still horribly deliberate, and his eyes lingered gloatingly on his dear boxes, as he moved
to and fro about the drawing-room, gathering a few small trifles. Last of all, he lifted one
of the squares of dynamite.

"Put that down!" cried Somerset. "If what you say be true, you have no call to load yourself
with that ungodly contraband."

"Merely a curiosity, dear boy," he said persuasively, and slipped the brick into his bag; "merely
a memento of the past--ah, happy past, bright past! You will not take a touch of spirits? no?
I find you very abstemious. Well," he added, "if you have really no curiosity to await the
event----"

"I!" cried Somerset. "My blood boils to get away."

"Well, then," said Zero, "I am ready; I would I could say, willing; but thus to leave the scene
of my sublime endeavours----"

Without further parley, Somerset seized him by the arm, and dragged him downstairs; the hall-door
shut with a clang on the deserted mansion; and still towing his laggardly companion, the young
man sped across the square in the Oxford Street direction. They had not yet passed the corner
of the garden, when they were arrested by a dull thud of an extraordinary amplitude of sound,
accompanied and followed by a shattering fracas. Somerset turned in time to see the mansion
rend in twain, vomit forth flames and smoke, and instantly collapse into its cellars. At the
same moment, he was thrown violently to the ground. His first glance was towards Zero. The
plotter had but reeled against the garden rail; he stood there, the Gladstone bag clasped tight
upon his heart, his whole face radiant with relief and gratitude; and the young man heard him
murmur to himself: "Nunc dimittis, nunc dimittis!"

The consternation of the populace was indescribable: the whole of Golden Square was alive with
men, women, and children, running wildly to and fro, and, like rabbits in a warren, dashing
in and out of the house doors, and under favour of this confusion, Somerset dragged away the
lingering plotter.

"It was grand," he continued to murmur: "it was indescribably grand. Ah, green Erin, green
Erin, what a day of glory! and, oh, my calumniated dynamite, how triumphantly hast thou prevailed!"

Suddenly a shade crossed his face; and pausing in the middle of the footway, he consulted the
dial of his watch.

"Good God!" he cried, "how mortifying! seven minutes too early! The dynamite surpassed my hopes;
but the clockwork, fickle clockwork, has once more betrayed me. Alas, can there be no success
unmixed with failure? and must even this red-letter day be chequered by a shadow?"

"Incomparable ass!" said Somerset, "what have you done? Blown up the house of an unoffending
old lady, and the whole earthly property of the only person who is fool enough to befriend you!"

"You do not understand these matters," replied Zero, with an air of great dignity. "This will
shake England to the heart. Gladstone, the truculent old man, will quail before the pointing
finger of revenge. And now that my dynamite is proved effective----"

"Heavens, you remind me!" ejaculated Somerset. "That brick in your bag must be instantly disposed
of. But how? If we could throw it in the river----"

"A torpedo," cried Zero, brightening, "a torpedo in the Thames! Superb, dear fellow! I recognise
in you the marks of an accomplished anarch."

"True!" returned Somerset. "It cannot so be done; and there is no help but you must carry it
away with you. Come on, then, and let me at once consign you to a train."

"Nay, nay, dear boy," protested Zero. "There is now no call for me to leave. My character is
now reinstated; my fame brightens; this is the best thing I have done yet; and I see from here
the ovations that await the author of the Golden Square Atrocity."

"My young friend," returned the other, "I give you your choice. I will either see you safe
on board a train or safe in gaol."

"Somerset, this is unlike you!" said the chemist. "You surprise me, Somerset."

"I shall considerably more surprise you at the next police office," returned Somerset, with
something bordering on rage. "For on one point my mind is settled: either I see you packed
off to America, brick and all, or else you dine in prison."

"You have perhaps neglected one point," returned the unoffended Zero: "for, speaking as a philosopher,
I fail to see what means you can employ to force me. The will, my dear fellow----"

"Now, see here," interrupted Somerset. "You are ignorant of anything but science, which I can
never regard as being truly knowledge; I, sir, have studied life; and allow me to inform you
that I have but to raise my hand and voice--here in this street--and the mob----"

"Good God in Heaven, Somerset," cried Zero, turning deadly white and stopping in his walk,
"great God in Heaven, what words are these? Oh, not in jest, not even in jest, should they
be used! The brutal mob, the savage passions.... Somerset, for God's sake, a public-house!"

Somerset considered him with freshly awakened curiosity. "This is very interesting," said he.
"You recoil from such a death?"

"Who would not?" asked the plotter.

"And to be blown up by dynamite," inquired the young man, "doubtless strikes you as a form
of euthanasia?"

"Pardon me," returned Zero: "I own, and, since I have braved it daily in my professional career,
I own it even with pride: it is a death unusually distasteful to the mind of man."

"One more question," said Somerset; "you object to Lynch Law? why?"

"It is assassination," said the plotter calmly; but with eyebrows a little lifted, as in wonder
at the question.

"Shake hands with me," cried Somerset. "Thank God, I have now no ill-feeling left; and though
you cannot conceive how I burn to see you on the gallows, I can quite contentedly assist at
your departure."

"I do not very clearly take your meaning," said Zero, "but I am sure you mean kindly. As to
my departure, there is another point to be considered. I have neglected to supply myself with
funds; my little all has perished in what history will love to relate under the name of the
Golden Square Atrocity; and without what is coarsely if vigorously called stamps, you must
be well aware it is impossible for me to pass the ocean."

"For me," said Somerset, "you have now ceased to be a man. You have no more claim upon me than
a door-scraper; but the touching confusion of your mind disarms me from extremities. Until
to-day, I always thought stupidity was funny; I now know otherwise; and when I look upon your
idiot face, laughter rises within me like a deadly sickness, and the tears spring up into my
eyes as bitter as blood. What should this portend? I begin to doubt; I am losing faith in scepticism.
Is it possible," he cried, in a kind of horror of himself--"is it conceivable that I believe
in right and wrong? Already I have found myself, with incredulous surprise, to be the victim
of a prejudice of personal honour. And must this change proceed? Have you robbed me of my youth?
Must I fall, at my time of life, into the Common Banker? But why should I address that head
of wood? Let this suffice. I dare not let you stay among women and children; I lack the courage
to denounce you, if by any means I may avoid it; you have no money; well then, take mine, and
go; and if ever I behold your face after to-day, that day will be your last."

"Under the circumstances," replied Zero, "I scarce see my way to refuse your offer. Your expressions
may pain, they cannot surprise me; I am aware our point of view requires a little training,
a little moral hygiene, if I may so express it; and one of the points that has always charmed
me in your character is this delightful frankness. As for the small advance, it shall be remitted
you from Philadelphia."

"It shall not," said Somerset.

"Dear fellow, you do not understand," returned the plotter. "I shall now be received with fresh
confidence by my superiors; and my experiments will be no longer hampered by pitiful conditions
of the purse."

"What I am now about, sir, is a crime," replied Somerset; "and were you to roll in wealth like
Vanderbilt, I should scorn to be reimbursed of money I had so scandalously misapplied. Take
it, and keep it. By George, sir, three days of you have transformed me to an ancient Roman."

With these words, Somerset hailed a passing hansom; and the pair were driven rapidly to the
railway terminus. There, an oath having been extracted, the money changed hands.

"And now," said Somerset, "I have bought back my honour with every penny I possess. And I thank
God, though there is nothing before me but starvation, I am free from all entanglement with
Mr. Zero Pumpernickel Jones."

"To starve?" cried Zero. "Dear fellow, I cannot endure the thought."

"Take your ticket!" returned Somerset.

"I think you display temper," said Zero.

"Take your ticket," reiterated the young man.

"Well," said the plotter, as he returned, ticket in hand, "your attitude is so strange and
painful, that I scarce know if I should ask you to shake hands."

"As a man, no," replied Somerset; "but I have no objection to shake hands with you, as I might
with a pump-well that ran poison or hell-fire."

"This is a very cold parting," sighed the dynamiter; and still followed by Somerset, he began
to descend the platform. This was now bustling with passengers; the train for Liverpool was
just about to start, another had but recently arrived; and the double tide made movement difficult.
As the pair reached the neighbourhood of the bookstall, however, they came into an open space;
and here the attention of the plotter was attracted by a Standard broadside bearing the words:
"Second Edition: Explosion in Golden Square." His eye lighted; groping in his pocket for the
necessary coin, he sprang forward--his bag knocked sharply on the corner of the stall--and
instantly, with a formidable report, the dynamite exploded. When the smoke cleared away the
stall was seen much shattered, and the stall-keeper running forth in terror from the ruins;
but of the Irish patriot or the Gladstone bag no adequate remains were to be found.

In the first scramble of the alarm, Somerset made good his escape, and came out upon the Euston
Road, his head spinning, his body sick with hunger, and his pockets destitute of coin. Yet
as he continued to walk the pavements, he wondered to find in his heart a sort of peaceful
exultation, a great content, a sense, as it were, of divine presence and the kindliness of
fate; and he was able to tell himself that even if the worst befell, he could now starve with
a certain comfort since Zero was expunged.

Late in the afternoon he found himself at the door of Mr. Godall's shop; and being quite unmanned
by his long fast, and scarce considering what he did, he opened the glass door and entered.

"Ha!" said Mr. Godall, "Mr. Somerset! Well, have you met with an adventure? Have you the promised
story? Sit down, if you please; suffer me to choose you a cigar of my own special brand; and
reward me with a narrative in your best style."

"I must not take a cigar," said Somerset.

"Indeed!" said Mr. Godall. "But now I come to look at you more closely, I perceive that you
are changed. My poor boy, I hope there is nothing wrong?"

Somerset burst into tears.

EPILOGUE OF THE CIGAR DIVAN

On a certain day of lashing rain in the December of last year, and between the hours of nine
and ten in the morning, Mr. Edward Challoner pioneered himself under an umbrella to the door
of the Cigar Divan in Rupert Street. It was a place he had visited but once before: the memory
of what had followed on that visit and the fear of Somerset having prevented his return. Even
now, he looked in before he entered; but the shop was free of customers.

The young man behind the counter was so intently writing in a penny version-book, that he paid
no heed to Challoner's arrival. On a second glance, it seemed to the latter that he recognised him.

"By Jove," he thought, "unquestionably Somerset!"

And though this was the very man he had been so sedulously careful to avoid, his unexplained
position at the receipt of custom changed distaste to curiosity.

"'Or opulent rotunda strike the sky,'" said the shopman to himself, in the tone of one considering
a verse. "I suppose it would be too much to say 'orotunda,' and yet how noble it were! 'Or
opulent orotunda strike the sky.' But that is the bitterness of arts; you see a good effect,
and some nonsense about sense continually intervenes."

"Somerset, my dear fellow," said Challoner, "is this a masquerade?"

"What? Challoner!" cried the shopman. "I am delighted to see you. One moment, till I finish
the octave of my sonnet: only the octave." And with a friendly waggle of the hand, he once
more buried himself in the commerce of the Muses. "I say," he said presently, looking up, "you
seem in wonderful preservation: how about the hundred pounds?"

"I have made a small inheritance from a great aunt in Wales," replied Challoner modestly.

"Ah," said Somerset, "I very much doubt the legitimacy of inheritance. The State, in my view,
should collar it. I am now going through a stage of socialism and poetry," he added apologetically,
as one who spoke of a course of medicinal waters.

"And are you really the person of the--establishment?" inquired Challoner, deftly evading the
word "shop."

"A vendor, sir, a vendor," returned the other, pocketing his poesy. "I help old Happy and Glorious.
Can I offer you a weed?"

"Well, I scarcely like ..." began Challoner.

"Nonsense, my dear fellow," cried the shopman. "We are very proud of the business; and the
old man, let me inform you, besides being the most egregious of created beings from the point
of view of ethics, is literally sprung from the loins of kings. 'De Godall je suis le fervent.'
There is only one Godall.--By the way," he added, as Challoner lit his cigar, "how did you
get on with the detective trade?"

"I did not try," said Challoner curtly.

"Ah, well, I did," returned Somerset, "and made the most incomparable mess of it; lost all
my money and fairly covered myself with odium and ridicule. There is more in that business,
Challoner, than meets the eye; there is more, in fact, in all businesses. You must believe
in them, or get up the belief that you believe. Hence," he added, "the recognised inferiority
of the plumber, for no one could believe in plumbing."

"A propos," asked Challoner, "do you still paint?"

"Not now," replied Paul; "but I think of taking up the violin."

Challoner's eye, which had been somewhat restless since the trade of the detective had been
named, now rested for a moment on the columns of the morning paper, where it lay spread upon
the counter.

"By Jove," he cried, "that's odd!"

"What is odd?" asked Paul.

"Oh, nothing," returned the other: "only I once met a person called M'Guire."

"So did I!" cried Somerset. "Is there anything about him?"

Challoner read as follows: "Mysterious death in Stepney. An inquest was held yesterday on the
body of Patrick M'Guire, described as a carpenter. Dr. Dovering stated that he had for some
time treated the deceased as a dispensary patient, for sleeplessness, loss of appetite, and
nervous depression. There was no cause of death to be found. He would say the deceased had
sunk. Deceased was not a temperate man, which doubtless accelerated death. Deceased complained
of dumb ague, but witness had never been able to detect any positive disease. He did not know
that he had any family. He regarded him as a person of unsound intellect, who believed himself
a member and the victim of some secret society. If he were to hazard an opinion, he would say
deceased had died of fear."

"And the doctor would be right," cried Somerset; "and my dear Challoner, I am so relieved to
hear of his demise, that I will----. Well, after all," he added, "poor devil, he was well served."

The door at this moment opened, and Desborough appeared upon the threshold. He was wrapped
in a long waterproof, imperfectly supplied with buttons; his boots were full of water, his
hat greasy with service; and yet he wore the air of one exceeding well content with life. He
was hailed by the two others with exclamations of surprise and welcome.

"And did you try the detective business?" inquired Paul.

"No," returned Harry. "Oh yes, by the way, I did though: twice, and got caught out both times.
But I thought I should find my--my wife here?" he added, with a kind of proud confusion.

"What? are you married?" cried Somerset.

"Oh yes," said Harry, "quite a long time: a month at least."

"Money?" asked Challoner.

"That's the worst of it," Desborough admitted. "We are deadly hard up. But the Pri--Mr. Godall
is going to do something for us. That is what brings us here."

"Who was Mrs. Desborough?" said Challoner, in the tone of a man of society.

"She was a Miss Luxmore," returned Harry. "You fellows will be sure to like her, for she is
much cleverer than I. She tells wonderful stories, too; better than a book."

And just then the door opened, and Mrs. Desborough entered. Somerset cried out aloud to recognise
the young lady of the Superfluous Mansion, and Challoner fell back a step and dropped his cigar
as he beheld the sorceress of Chelsea.

"What!" cried Harry, "do you both know my wife?"

"I believe I have seen her," said Somerset, a little wildly.

"I think I have met the gentleman," said Mrs. Desborough sweetly; "but I cannot imagine where
it was."

"Oh no," cried Somerset fervently; "I have no notion--I cannot conceive--where it could have
been. Indeed," he continued, growing in emphasis, "I think it highly probable that it's a mistake."

"And you, Challoner?" asked Harry, "you seemed to recognise her, too."

"These are both friends of yours, Harry?" said the lady. "Delighted, I am sure. I do not remember
to have met Mr. Challoner."

Challoner was very red in the face, perhaps from having groped after his cigar. "I do not remember
to have had the pleasure," he responded huskily.

"Well, and Mr. Godall?" asked Mrs. Desborough.

"Are you the lady that has an appointment with old ..." began Somerset, and paused, blushing.
"Because if so," he resumed, "I was to announce you at once."

And the shopman raised a curtain, opened a door, and passed into a small pavilion which had
been added to the back of the house. On the roof, the rain resounded musically. The walls were
lined with maps and prints and a few works of reference. Upon a table was a large-scale map
of Egypt and the Soudan, and another of Tonkin, on which, by the aid of coloured pins, the
progress of the different wars was being followed day by day. A light, refreshing odour of
the most delicate tobacco hung upon the air; and a fire, not of foul coal, but of clear-flaming
resinous billets, chattered upon silver dogs. In this elegant and plain apartment, Mr. Godall
sat in a morning muse, placidly gazing at the fire and hearkening to the rain upon the roof.

"Ha, my dear Mr. Somerset," said he, "and have you since last night adopted any fresh political
principle?"

"The lady, sir," said Somerset, with another blush.

"You have seen her, I believe?" returned Mr. Godall; and on Somerset's replying in the affirmative:
"You will excuse me, my dear sir," he resumed, "if I offer you a hint. I think it not improbable
this lady may desire entirely to forget the past. From one gentleman to another, no more words
are necessary."

A moment after, he had received Mrs. Desborough with that grave and touching urbanity that
so well became him.

"I am pleased, madam, to welcome you to my poor house," he said; "and shall be still more so,
if what were else a barren courtesy and a pleasure personal to myself, shall prove to be of
serious benefit to you and Mr. Desborough."

"Your highness," replied Clara, "I must begin with thanks; it is like what I have heard of
you, that you should thus take up the case of the unfortunate; and as for my Harry, he is worthy
of all that you can do." She paused.

"But for yourself?" suggested Mr. Godall--"it was thus you were about to continue, I believe."

"You take the words out of my mouth," she said. "For myself, it is different."

"I am not here to be a judge of men," replied the prince; "still less of women. I am now a
private person like yourself and many million others; but I am one who still fights upon the
side of quiet. Now, madam, you know better than I, and God better than you, what you have done
to mankind in the past; I pause not to inquire; it is with the future I concern myself, it
is for the future I demand security. I would not willingly put arms into the hands of a disloyal
combatant; and I dare not restore to wealth one of the levyers of a private and a barbarous
war. I speak with some severity, and yet I pick my terms. I tell myself continually that you
are a woman; and a voice continually reminds me of the children whose lives and limbs you have
endangered. A woman," he repeated solemnly--"and children. Possibly, madam, when you are yourself
a mother, you will feel the bite of that antithesis: possibly when you kneel at night beside
a cradle, a fear will fall upon you, heavier than any shame; and when your child lies in the
pain and danger of disease, you shall hesitate to kneel before your Maker."

"You look at the fault," she said, "and not at the excuse. Has your own heart never leaped
within you at some story of oppression? But, alas, no! for you were born upon a throne."

"I was born of woman," said the prince; "I came forth from my mother's agony, helpless as a
wren, like other nurselings. This, which you forgot, I have still faithfully remembered. Is
it not one of your English poets, that looked abroad upon the earth and saw vast circumvallations,
innumerable troops manoeuvring, warships at sea, and a great dust of battles on shore; and,
casting anxiously about for what should be the cause of so many and painful preparations, spied
at last, in the centre of all, a mother and her babe? These, madam, are my politics; and the
verses, which are by Mr. Coventry Patmore, I have caused to be translated into the Bohemian
tongue. Yes, these are my politics: to change what we can, to better what we can; but still
to bear in mind that man is but a devil weakly fettered by some generous beliefs and impositions;
and for no word however nobly sounding, and no cause however just and pious, to relax the stricture
of these bonds."

There was a silence of a moment.

"I fear, madam," resumed the prince, "that I but weary you. My views are formal like myself;
and like myself, they also begin to grow old. But I must still trouble you for some reply."

"I can say but one thing," said Mrs. Desborough: "I love my husband."

"It is a good answer," returned the prince; "and you name a good influence, but one that need
not be conterminous with life."

"I will not play at pride with such a man as you," she answered. "What do you ask of me? not
protestations, I am sure. What shall I say? I have done much that I cannot defend and that
I would not do again. Can I say more? Yes: I can say this: I never abused myself with the muddle-headed
fairy tales of politics. I was at least prepared to meet reprisals. While I was levying war
myself--or levying murder, if you choose the plainer term--I never accused my adversaries of
assassination. I never felt or feigned a righteous horror, when a price was put upon my life
by those whom I attacked. I never called the policeman a hireling. I may have been a criminal,
in short; but I never was a fool."

"Enough, madam," returned the prince: "more than enough! Your words are most reviving to my
spirits; for in this age, when even the assassin is a sentimentalist, there is no virtue greater
in my eyes than intellectual clarity. Suffer me then to ask you to retire; for by the signal
of that bell, I perceive my old friend, your mother, to be close at hand. With her I promise
you to do my utmost."

And as Mrs. Desborough returned to the Divan, the prince, opening a door upon the other side,
admitted Mrs. Luxmore.

"Madam, and my very good friend," said he, "is my face so much changed that you no longer recognise
Prince Florizel in Mr. Godall?"

"To be sure!" she cried, looking at him through her glasses. "I have always regarded your highness
as a perfect man; and in your altered circumstances, of which I have already heard with deep
regret, I will beg you to consider my respect increased instead of lessened."

"I have found it so," returned the prince, "with every class of my acquaintance. But, madam,
I pray you to be seated. My business is of a delicate order, and regards your daughter."

"In that case," said Mrs. Luxmore, "you may save yourself the trouble of speaking, for I have
fully made up my mind to have nothing to do with her. I will not hear one word in her defence;
but as I value nothing so particularly as the virtue of justice, I think it my duty to explain
to you the grounds of my complaint. She deserted me, her natural protector; for years she has
consorted with the most disreputable persons; and, to fill the cup of her offence, she has
recently married. I refuse to see her, or the being to whom she has linked herself. One hundred
and twenty pounds a year, I have always offered her: I offer it again. It is what I had myself
when I was her age."

"Very well, madam," said the prince; "and be that so! But to touch upon another matter: what
was the income of the Reverend Bernard Fanshawe?"

"My father?" asked the spirited old lady. "I believe he had seven hundred pounds in the year."

"You were one, I think, of several?" pursued the prince.

"Of four," was the reply. "We were four daughters; and, painful as the admission is to make,
a more detestable family could scarce be found in England."

"Dear me!" said the prince. "And you, madam, have an income of eight thousand?"

"Not more than five," returned the old lady; "but where on earth are you conducting me?"

"To an allowance of one thousand pounds a year," replied Florizel, smiling. "For I must not
suffer you to take your father for a rule. He was poor, you are rich. He had many calls upon
his poverty: there are none upon your wealth. And indeed, madam, if you will let me touch this
matter with a needle, there is but one point in common to your two positions: that each had
a daughter more remarkable for liveliness than duty."

"I have been entrapped into this house," said the old lady, getting to her feet. "But it shall
not avail. Not all the tobacconists in Europe...."

"Ah, madam," interrupted Florizel, "before what is referred to as my fall, you had not used
such language! And since you so much object to the simple industry by which I live, let me
give you a friendly hint. If you will not consent to support your daughter, I shall be constrained
to place that lady behind my counter, where I doubt not she would prove a great attraction;
and your son-in-law shall have a livery and run the errands. With such young blood my business
might be doubled, and I might be bound, in common gratitude, to place the name of Luxmore beside
that of Godall."

"Your highness," said the old lady, "I have been very rude, and you are very cunning. I suppose
the minx is on the premises. Produce her."

"Let us rather observe them unperceived," said the prince; and so saying he rose and quietly
drew back the curtain.

Mrs. Desborough sat with her back to them on a chair; Somerset and Harry were hanging on her
words with extraordinary interest; Challoner, alleging some affair, had long ago withdrawn
from the detested neighbourhood of the enchantress.

"At that moment," Mrs. Desborough was saying, "Mr. Gladstone detected the features of his cowardly
assailant. A cry rose to his lips: a cry of mingled triumph...."

"That is Mr. Somerset!" interrupted the spirited old lady, in the highest note of her register.
"Mr. Somerset, what have you done with my house-property?"

"Madam," said the prince, "let it be mine to give the explanation; and in the meanwhile, welcome
your daughter."

"Well, Clara, how do you do?" said Mrs. Luxmore. "It appears I am to give you an allowance.
So much the better for you. As for Mr. Somerset, I am very ready to have an explanation; for
the whole affair, though costly, was eminently humorous. And at any rate," she added, nodding
to Paul, "he is a young gentleman for whom I have a great affection, and his pictures were
the funniest I ever saw."

"I have ordered a collation," said the prince. "Mr. Somerset, as these are all your friends,
I propose, if you please, that you should join them at table. I will take the shop."

STRANGE CASE OF DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE

  TO
  KATHARINE DE MATTOS

  It's ill to loose the bands that God decreed to bind;
  Still will we be the children of the heather and the wind.
  Far away from home, O it's still for you and me
  That the broom is blowing bonnie in the north countrie.

STRANGE CASE OF DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE

STORY OF THE DOOR

Mr. Utterson the lawyer was a man of a rugged countenance, that was never lighted by a smile;
cold, scanty and embarrassed in discourse; backward in sentiment; lean, long, dusty, dreary,
and yet somehow lovable. At friendly meetings, and when the wine was to his taste, something
eminently human beaconed from his eye; something indeed which never found its way into his
talk, but which spoke not only in these silent symbols of the after-dinner face, but more often
and loudly in the acts of his life. He was austere with himself; drank gin when he was alone,
to mortify a taste for vintages; and though he enjoyed the theatre, had not crossed the doors
of one for twenty years. But he had an approved tolerance for others; sometimes wondering,
almost with envy, at the high pressure of spirits involved in their misdeeds; and in any extremity
inclined to help rather than to reprove. "I incline to Cain's heresy," he used to say quaintly:
"I let my brother go to the devil in his own way." In this character, it was frequently his
fortune to be the last reputable acquaintance and the last good influence in the lives of down-going
men. And to such as these, so long as they came about his chambers, he never marked a shade
of change in his demeanour.

No doubt the feat was easy to Mr. Utterson; for he was undemonstrative at the best, and even
his friendships seemed to be founded in a similar catholicity of good-nature. It is the mark
of a modest man to accept his friendly circle ready-made from the hands of opportunity; and
that was the lawyer's way. His friends were those of his own blood, or those whom he had known
the longest; his affections, like ivy, were the growth of time, they implied no aptness in
the object. Hence, no doubt, the bond that united him to Mr. Richard Enfield, his distant kinsman,
the well-known man about town. It was a nut to crack for many, what these two could see in
each other or what subject they could find in common. It was reported by those who encountered
them in their Sunday walks that they said nothing, looked singularly dull, and would hail with
obvious relief the appearance of a friend. For all that, the two men put the greatest store
by these excursions, counted them the chief jewel of each week, and not only set aside occasions
of pleasure, but even resisted the calls of business, that they might enjoy them uninterrupted.

It chanced on one of these rambles that their way led them down a by-street in a busy quarter
of London. The street was small, and what is called quiet, but it drove a thriving trade on
the week-days. The inhabitants were all doing well, it seemed, and all emulously hoping to
do better still, and laying out the surplus of their gains in coquetry; so that the shop-fronts
stood along that thoroughfare with an air of invitation, like rows of smiling saleswomen. Even
on Sunday, when it veiled its more florid charms and lay comparatively empty of passage, the
street shone out in contrast to its dingy neighbourhood, like a fire in a forest; and with
its freshly painted shutters, well-polished brasses, and general cleanliness and gaiety of
note, instantly caught and pleased the eye of the passenger.

Two doors from one corner on the left hand going east, the line was broken by the entry of
a court; and just at that point a certain sinister block of building thrust forward its gable
on the street. It was two stories high; showed no window, nothing but a door on the lower story
and a blind forehead of discoloured wall on the upper; and bore in every feature the marks
of prolonged and sordid negligence. The door, which was equipped with neither bell nor knocker,
was blistered and distained. Tramps slouched into the recess and struck matches on the panels;
children kept shop upon the steps; the schoolboy had tried his knife on the mouldings; and
for close on a generation no one had appeared to drive away these random visitors or to repair
their ravages.

Mr. Enfield and the lawyer were on the other side of the by-street, but when they came abreast
of the entry, the former lifted up his cane and pointed.

"Did you ever remark that door?" he asked; and when his companion had replied in the affirmative,
"it is connected in my mind," added he, "with a very odd story."

"Indeed?" said Mr. Utterson, with a slight change of voice, "and what was that?"

"Well, it was this way," returned Mr. Enfield: "I was coming home from some place at the end
of the world, about three o'clock of a black winter morning, and my way lay through a part
of town where there was literally nothing to be seen but lamps. Street after street, and all
the folks asleep--street after street, all lighted up as if for a procession and all as empty
as a church--till at last I got into that state of mind when a man listens and listens and
begins to long for the sight of a policeman. All at once I saw two figures: one a little man
who was stumping along eastward at a good walk, and the other a girl of maybe eight or ten,
who was running as hard as she was able down a cross street. Well, sir, the two ran into one
another naturally enough at the corner; and then came the horrible part of the thing; for the
man trampled calmly over the child's body and left her screaming on the ground. It sounds nothing
to hear, but it was hellish to see. It wasn't like a man; it was like some damned Juggernaut.
I gave a view-holloa, took to my heels, collared my gentleman, and brought him back to where
there was already quite a group about the screaming child. He was perfectly cool, and made
no resistance, but gave me one look so ugly that it brought out the sweat on me like running.
The people who had turned out were the girl's own family; and pretty soon, the doctor, for
whom she had been sent, put in his appearance. Well, the child was not much the worse, more
frightened, according to the Sawbones; and there you might have supposed would be an end to
it. But there was one curious circumstance. I had taken a loathing to my gentleman at first
sight. So had the child's family, which was only natural. But the doctor's case was what struck
me. He was the usual cut-and-dry apothecary, of no particular age and colour, with a strong
Edinburgh accent, and about as emotional as a bagpipe. Well, sir, he was like the rest of us;
every time he looked at my prisoner, I saw that Sawbones turn sick and white with the desire
to kill him. I knew what was in his mind, just as he knew what was in mine; and killing being
out of the question, we did the next best. We told the man we could and would make such a scandal
out of this as should make his name stink from one end of London to the other. If he had any
friends or any credit, we undertook that he should lose them. And all the time, as we were
pitching it in red-hot, we were keeping the women off him as best we could, for they were as
wild as harpies. I never saw a circle of such hateful faces; and there was the man in the middle,
with a kind of black sneering coolness--frightened, too, I could see that--but carrying it
off, sir, really like Satan. 'If you choose to make capital out of this accident,' said he,
'I am naturally helpless. No gentleman but wishes to avoid a scene,' says he. 'Name your figure.'
Well, we screwed him up to a hundred pounds for the child's family; he would have clearly liked
to stick out; but there was something about the lot of us that meant mischief, and at last
he struck. The next thing was to get the money; and where do you think he carried us but to
that place with the door?--whipped out a key, went in, and presently came back with the matter
of ten pounds in gold and a cheque for the balance on Coutts's, drawn payable to bearer and
signed with a name that I can't mention, though it's one of the points of my story, but it
was a name at least very well known and often printed. The figure was stiff; but the signature
was good for more than that, if it was only genuine. I took the liberty of pointing out to
my gentleman that the whole business looked apocryphal, and that a man does not, in real life,
walk into a cellar-door at four in the morning and come out of it with another man's cheque
for close upon a hundred pounds. But he was quite easy and sneering. 'Set your mind at rest,'
says he, 'I will stay with you till the banks open and cash the cheque myself.' So we all set
off, the doctor, and the child's father, and our friend and myself, and passed the rest of
the night in my chambers; and next day, when we had breakfasted, went in a body to the bank.
I gave in the cheque myself, and said I had every reason to believe it was a forgery. Not a
bit of it. The cheque was genuine."

"Tut-tut," said Mr. Utterson.

"I see you feel as I do," said Mr. Enfield. "Yes, it's a bad story. For my man was a fellow
that nobody could have to do with, a really damnable man: and the person that drew the cheque
is the very pink of the proprieties, celebrated too, and (what makes it worse) one of your
fellows who do what they call good. Blackmail, I suppose; an honest man paying through the
nose for some of the capers of his youth. Black Mail House is what I call that place with the
door, in consequence. Though even that, you know, is far from explaining all," he added, and
with the words fell into a vein of musing.

From this he was recalled by Mr. Utterson asking rather suddenly: "And you don't know if the
drawer of the cheque lives there?"

"A likely place, isn't it?" returned Mr. Enfield. "But I happened to have noticed his address;
he lives in some square or other."

"And you never asked about--the place with the door?" said Mr. Utterson.

"No, sir: I had a delicacy," was the reply. "I feel very strongly about putting questions;
it partakes too much of the style of the day of judgment. You start a question, and it's like
starting a stone. You sit quietly on the top of a hill; and away the stone goes, starting others;
and presently some bland old bird (the last you would have thought of) is knocked on the head
in his own back-garden and the family have to change their name. No, sir, I make it a rule
of mine: the more it looks like Queer Street, the less I ask."

"A very good rule too," said the lawyer.

"But I have studied the place for myself," continued Mr. Enfield. "It seems scarcely a house.
There is no other door, and nobody goes in or out of that one but, once in a great while, the
gentleman of my adventure. There are three windows looking on the court on the first floor;
none below; the windows are always shut, but they're clean. And then there is a chimney which
is generally smoking; so somebody must live there. Yet it's not so sure; for the buildings
are so packed together about that court that it's hard to say where one ends and another begins."

The pair walked on again for a while in silence; and then, "Enfield," said Mr. Utterson, "that's
a good rule of yours."

"Yes, I think it is," returned Enfield.

"But for all that," continued the lawyer, "there's one point I want to ask: I want to ask the
name of that man who walked over the child."

"Well," said Mr. Enfield, "I can't see what harm it would do. He was a man of the name of Hyde."

"H'm," said Mr. Utterson. "What sort of a man is he to see?"

"He is not easy to describe. There is something wrong with his appearance; something displeasing,
something downright detestable. I never saw a man I so disliked, and yet I scarce know why.
He must be deformed somewhere; he gives a strong feeling of deformity, although I couldn't
specify the point. He's an extraordinary-looking man, and yet I really can name nothing out
of the way. No, sir; I can make no hand of it; I can't describe him. And it's not want of memory;
for I declare I can see him this moment."

Mr. Utterson again walked some way in silence and obviously under a weight of consideration.
"You are sure he used a key?" he inquired at last.

"My dear sir----" began Enfield, surprised out of himself.

"Yes, I know," said Utterson; "I know it must seem strange. The fact is, if I do not ask you
the name of the other party it is because I know it already. You see, Richard, your tale has
gone home. If you have been inexact in any point, you had better correct it."

"I think you might have warned me," returned the other with a touch of sullenness. "But I have
been pedantically exact, as you call it. The fellow had a key; and what's more, he has it still.
I saw him use it not a week ago."

Mr. Utterson sighed deeply but said never a word; and the young man presently resumed. "Here
is another lesson to say nothing," said he. "I am ashamed of my long tongue. Let us make a
bargain never to refer to this again."

"With all my heart," said the lawyer. "I shake hands on that, Richard."

SEARCH FOR MR. HYDE

That evening Mr. Utterson came home to his bachelor house in sombre spirits and sat down to
dinner without relish. It was his custom of a Sunday, when this meal was over, to sit close
by the fire, a volume of some dry divinity on his reading-desk, until the clock of the neighbouring
church rang out the hour of twelve, when he would go soberly and gratefully to bed. On this
night, however, as soon as the cloth was taken away, he took up a candle and went into his
business-room. There he opened his safe, took from the most private part of it a document endorsed
on the envelope as Dr. Jekyll's Will, and sat down with a clouded brow to study its contents.
The will was holograph, for Mr. Utterson, though he took charge of it now that it was made,
had refused to lend the least assistance in the making of it; it provided not only that, in
case of the decease of Henry Jekyll, M.D., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., &c., all his possessions
were to pass into the hands of his "friend and benefactor Edward Hyde," but that in case of
Dr. Jekyll's "disappearance or unexplained absence for any period exceeding three calendar
months," the said Edward Hyde should step into the said Henry Jekyll's shoes without further
delay and free from any burthen or obligation, beyond the payment of a few small sums to the
members of the doctor's household. This document had long been the lawyer's eyesore. It offended
him both as a lawyer and as a lover of the sane and customary sides of life, to whom the fanciful
was the immodest. And hitherto it was his ignorance of Mr. Hyde that had swelled his indignation;
now, by a sudden turn, it was his knowledge. It was already bad enough when the name was but
a name of which he could learn no more. It was worse when it began to be clothed upon with
detestable attributes; and out of the shifting, insubstantial mists that had so long baffled
his eye, there leaped up the sudden, definite presentment of a fiend.

"I thought it was madness," he said, as he replaced the obnoxious paper in the safe, "and now
I begin to fear it is disgrace."

With that he blew out his candle, put on a great-coat, and set forth in the direction of Cavendish
Square, that citadel of medicine, where his friend, the great Dr. Lanyon, had his house and
received his crowding patients. "If any one knows, it will be Lanyon," he had thought.

The solemn butler knew and welcomed him; he was subjected to no stage of delay, but ushered
direct from the door to the dining-room, where Dr. Lanyon sat alone over his wine. This was
a hearty, healthy, dapper, red-faced gentleman, with a shock of hair prematurely white, and
a boisterous and decided manner. At sight of Mr. Utterson, he sprang up from his chair and
welcomed him with both hands. The geniality, as was the way of the man, was somewhat theatrical
to the eye; but it reposed on genuine feeling. For these two were old friends, old mates both
at school and college, both thorough respecters of themselves and of each other, and, what
does not always follow, men who thoroughly enjoyed each other's company.

After a little rambling talk, the lawyer led up to the subject which so disagreeably preoccupied
his mind.

"I suppose, Lanyon," said he, "you and I must be the two oldest friends that Henry Jekyll has?"

"I wish the friends were younger," chuckled Dr. Lanyon. "But I suppose we are. And what of
that? I see little of him now."

"Indeed?" said Utterson. "I thought you had a bond of common interest."

"We had," was the reply. "But it is more than ten years since Henry Jekyll became too fanciful
for me. He began to go wrong, wrong in mind; and though of course I continue to take an interest
in him for old sake's sake, as they say, I see and I have seen devilish little of the man.
Such unscientific balderdash," added the doctor, flushing suddenly purple, "would have estranged
Damon and Pythias."

This little spirt of temper was somewhat of a relief to Mr. Utterson. "They have only differed
on some point of science," he thought; and being a man of no scientific passions (except in
the matter of conveyancing) he even added: "It is nothing worse than that!" He gave his friend
a few seconds to recover his composure, and then approached the question he had come to put.
"Did you ever come across a protégé of his--one Hyde?" he asked.

"Hyde," repeated Lanyon. "No. Never heard of him. Since my time."

That was the amount of information that the lawyer carried back with him to the great, dark
bed on which he tossed to and fro, until the small hours of the morning began to grow large.
It was a night of little ease to his toiling mind, toiling in mere darkness and besieged by
questions.

Six o'clock struck on the bells of the church that was so conveniently near to Mr. Utterson's
dwelling, and still he was digging at the problem. Hitherto it had touched him on the intellectual
side alone; but now his imagination also was engaged, or rather enslaved; and as he lay and
tossed in the gross darkness of the night and the curtained room, Mr. Enfield's tale went by
before his mind in a scroll of lighted pictures. He would be aware of the great field of lamps
of a nocturnal city; then of the figure of a man walking swiftly; then of a child running from
the doctor's; and then these met, and that human Juggernaut trod the child down and passed
on regardless of her screams. Or else he would see a room in a rich house, where his friend
lay asleep, dreaming and smiling at his dreams; and then the door of that room would be opened,
the curtains of the bed plucked apart, the sleeper recalled, and lo! there would stand by his
side a figure to whom power was given, and even at that dead hour he must rise and do its bidding.
The figure in these two phases haunted the lawyer all night; and if at any time he dozed over,
it was but to see it glide more stealthily through sleeping houses, or move the more swiftly
and still the more swiftly, even to dizziness, through wider labyrinths of lamplighted city,
and at every street-corner crush a child and leave her screaming. And still the figure had
no face by which he might know it; even in his dreams, it had no face, or one that baffled
him and melted before his eyes; and thus it was that there sprang up and grew apace in the
lawyer's mind a singularly strong, almost an inordinate, curiosity to behold the features of
the real Mr. Hyde. If he could but once set eyes on him, he thought the mystery would lighten
and perhaps roll altogether away, as was the habit of mysterious things when well examined.
He might see a reason for his friend's strange preference or bondage (call it which you please)
and even for the startling clauses of the will. And at least it would be a face worth seeing:
the face of a man who was without bowels of mercy: a face which had but to show itself to raise
up, in the mind of the unimpressionable Enfield, a spirit of enduring hatred.

From that time forward, Mr. Utterson began to haunt the door in the by-street of shops. In
the morning before office hours, at noon when business was plenty and time scarce, at night
under the face of the fogged city moon, by all lights and at all hours of solitude or concourse,
the lawyer was to be found on his chosen post.

"If he be Mr. Hyde," he had thought, "I shall be Mr. Seek."

And at last his patience was rewarded. It was a fine dry night; frost in the air; the streets
as clean as a ballroom floor; the lamps, unshaken by any wind, drawing a regular pattern of
light and shadow. By ten o'clock, when the shops were closed, the by-street was very solitary
and, in spite of the low growl of London from all round, very silent. Small sounds carried
far; domestic sounds out of the houses were clearly audible on either side of the roadway;
and the rumour of the approach of any passenger preceded him by a long time. Mr. Utterson had
been some minutes at his post, when he was aware of an odd, light footstep drawing near. In
the course of his nightly patrols he had long grown accustomed to the quaint effect with which
the footfalls of a single person, while he is still a great way off, suddenly spring out distinct
from the vast hum and clatter of the city. Yet his attention had never before been so sharply
and decisively arrested; and it was with a strong, superstitious prevision of success that
he withdrew into the entry of the court.

The steps drew swiftly nearer, and swelled out suddenly louder as they turned the end of the
street. The lawyer, looking forth from the entry, could soon see what manner of man he had
to deal with. He was small and very plainly dressed, and the look of him, even at that distance,
went somehow strongly against the watcher's inclination. But he made straight for the door,
crossing the roadway to save time; and as he came, he drew a key from his pocket like one approaching
home.

Mr. Utterson stepped out and touched him on the shoulder as he passed. "Mr. Hyde, I think?"

Mr. Hyde shrank back with a hissing intake of the breath. But his fear was only momentary;
and though he did not look the lawyer in the face, he answered coolly enough: "That is my name.
What do you want?"

"I see you are going in," returned the lawyer. "I am an old friend of Dr. Jekyll's--Mr. Utterson
of Gaunt Street--you must have heard my name; and meeting you so conveniently, I thought you
might admit me."

"You will not find Dr. Jekyll; he is from home," replied Mr. Hyde, blowing in the key. And
then suddenly, but still without looking up, "How did you know me?" he asked.

"On your side," said Mr. Utterson, "will you do me a favour?"

"With pleasure," replied the other. "What shall it be?"

"Will you let me see your face?" asked the lawyer.

Mr. Hyde appeared to hesitate, and then, as if upon some sudden reflection, fronted about with
an air of defiance; and the pair stared at each other pretty fixedly for a few seconds. "Now
I shall know you again," said Mr. Utterson. "It may be useful."

"Yes," returned Mr. Hyde, "it is as well we have met; and à propos, you should have my address."
And he gave a number of a street in Soho.

"Good God!" thought Mr. Utterson, "can he too have been thinking of the will?" But he kept
his feelings to himself and only grunted in acknowledgment of the address.

"And now," said the other, "how did you know me?"

"By description," was the reply.

"Whose description?"

"We have common friends," said Mr. Utterson.

"Common friends?" echoed Mr. Hyde, a little hoarsely. "Who are they?"

"Jekyll, for instance," said the lawyer.

"He never told you," cried Mr. Hyde, with a flush of anger. "I did not think you would have lied."

"Come," said Mr. Utterson, "that is not fitting language."

The other snarled aloud into a savage laugh; and the next moment, with extraordinary quickness,
he had unlocked the door and disappeared into the house.

The lawyer stood awhile when Mr. Hyde had left him, the picture of disquietude. Then he began
slowly to mount the street, pausing every step or two and putting his hand to his brow like
a man in mental perplexity. The problem he was thus debating as he walked was one of a class
that is rarely solved. Mr. Hyde was pale and dwarfish. He gave an impression of deformity without
any nameable malformation, he had a displeasing smile, he had borne himself to the lawyer with
a sort of murderous mixture of timidity and boldness, and he spoke with a husky, whispering
and somewhat broken voice; all these were points against him, but not all of these together
could explain the hitherto unknown disgust, loathing, and fear with which Mr. Utterson regarded
him. "There must be something else," said the perplexed gentleman. "There is something more,
if I could find a name for it. God bless me, the man seems hardly human! Something troglodytic,
shall we say? or can it be the old story of Dr. Fell? or is it the mere radiance of a foul
soul that thus transpires through, and transfigures, its clay continent? The last, I think;
for O my poor old Harry Jekyll, if ever I read Satan's signature upon a face, it is on that
of your new friend."

Round the corner from the by-street there was a square of ancient, handsome houses, now for
the most part decayed from their high estate and let in flats and chambers to all sorts and
conditions of men: map-engravers, architects, shady lawyers, and the agents of obscure enterprises.
One house, however, second from the corner, was still occupied entire; and at the door of this,
which wore a great air of wealth and comfort, though it was now plunged in darkness except
for the fan-light, Mr. Utterson stopped and knocked. A well-dressed elderly servant opened
the door.

"Is Dr. Jekyll at home, Poole?" asked the lawyer.

"I will see, Mr. Utterson," said Poole, admitting the visitor, as he spoke, into a large, low-roofed,
comfortable hall, paved with flags, warmed (after the fashion of a country house) by a bright,
open fire, and furnished with costly cabinets of oak. "Will you wait here by the fire, sir?
or shall I give you a light in the dining-room?"

"Here, thank you," said the lawyer, and he drew near and leaned on the tall fender. This hall,
in which he was now left alone, was a pet fancy of his friend the doctor's; and Utterson himself
was wont to speak of it as the pleasantest room in London. But to-night there was a shudder
in his blood; the face of Hyde sat heavy on his memory; he felt (what was rare with him) a
nausea and distaste of life; and in the gloom of his spirits, he seemed to read a menace in
the flickering of the firelight on the polished cabinets and the uneasy starting of the shadow
on the roof. He was ashamed of his relief, when Poole presently returned to announce that Dr.
Jekyll was gone out.

"I saw Mr. Hyde go in by the old dissecting-room door, Poole," he said. "Is that right, when
Dr. Jekyll is from home?"

"Quite right, Mr. Utterson, sir," replied the servant. "Mr. Hyde has a key."

"Your master seems to repose a great deal of trust in that young man, Poole," resumed the other
musingly.

"Yes, sir, he do indeed," said Poole. "We have all orders to obey him."

"I do not think I ever met Mr. Hyde?" asked Utterson.

"O dear no, sir. He never dines here," replied the butler. "Indeed, we see very little of him
on this side of the house; he mostly comes and goes by the laboratory."

"Well, good-night, Poole."

"Good-night, Mr. Utterson."

And the lawyer set out homeward with a very heavy heart. "Poor Harry Jekyll," he thought, "my
mind misgives me he is in deep waters! He was wild when he was young; a long while ago, to
be sure; but in the law of God there is no statute of limitations. Ay, it must be that; the
ghost of some old sin, the cancer of some concealed disgrace: punishment coming, pede claudo,
years after memory has forgotten and self-love condoned the fault." And the lawyer, scared
by the thought, brooded awhile on his own past, groping in all the corners of memory, lest
by chance some Jack-in-the-Box of an old iniquity should leap to light there. His past was
fairly blameless; few men could read the rolls of their life with less apprehension; yet he
was humbled to the dust by the many ill things he had done, and raised up again into a sober
and fearful gratitude by the many that he had come so near to doing, yet avoided. And then,
by a return on his former subject, he conceived a spark of hope. "This Master Hyde, if he were
studied," thought he, "must have secrets of his own: black secrets, by the look of him; secrets
compared to which poor Jekyll's worst would be like sunshine. Things cannot continue as they
are. It turns me cold to think of this creature stealing like a thief to Harry's bedside; poor
Harry, what a wakening! And the danger of it; for if this Hyde suspects the existence of the
will, he may grow impatient to inherit. Ay, I must put my shoulder to the wheel--if Jekyll
will but let me," he added, "if Jekyll will only let me." For once more he saw before his mind's
eye, as clear as a transparency, the strange clauses of the will.

DR. JEKYLL WAS QUITE AT EASE

A fortnight later, by excellent good fortune, the doctor gave one of his pleasant dinners to
some five or six old cronies, all intelligent, reputable men, and all judges of good wine;
and Mr. Utterson so contrived that he remained behind after the others had departed. This was
no new arrangement, but a thing that had befallen many scores of times. Where Utterson was
liked, he was liked well. Hosts loved to detain the dry lawyer, when the light-hearted and
the loose-tongued had already their foot on the threshold; they liked to sit awhile in his
unobtrusive company, practising for solitude, sobering their minds in the man's rich silence
after the expense and strain of gaiety. To this rule Dr. Jekyll was no exception; and as he
now sat on the opposite side of the fire--a large, well-made, smooth-faced man of fifty, with
something of a slyish cast perhaps, but every mark of capacity and kindness--you could see
by his looks that he cherished for Mr. Utterson a sincere and warm affection.

"I have been wanting to speak to you, Jekyll," began the latter. "You know that will of yours?"

A close observer might have gathered that the topic was distasteful; but the doctor carried
it off gaily. "My poor Utterson," said he, "you are unfortunate in such a client. I never saw
a man so distressed as you were by my will; unless it were that hide-bound pedant, Lanyon,
at what he called my scientific heresies. Oh, I know he's a good fellow--you needn't frown--an
excellent fellow, and I always mean to see more of him; but a hide-bound pedant for all that;
an ignorant, blatant pedant. I was never more disappointed in any man than Lanyon."

"You know I never approved of it," pursued Utterson, ruthlessly disregarding the fresh topic.

"My will? Yes, certainly, I know that," said the doctor, a trifle sharply. "You have told me so."

"Well, I tell you so again," continued the lawyer. "I have been learning something of young Hyde."

The large handsome face of Dr. Jekyll grew pale to the very lips, and there came a blackness
about his eyes. "I do not care to hear more," said he. "This is a matter I thought we had agreed
to drop."

"What I heard was abominable," said Utterson.

"It can make no change. You do not understand my position," returned the doctor, with a certain
incoherency of manner. "I am painfully situated, Utterson; my position is a very strange--a
very strange one. It is one of those affairs that cannot be mended by talking."

"Jekyll," said Utterson, "you know me: I am a man to be trusted. Make a clean breast of this
in confidence; and I make no doubt I can get you out of it."

"My good Utterson," said the doctor, "this is very good of you, this is downright good of you,
and I cannot find words to thank you in. I believe you fully; I would trust you before any
man alive--ay, before myself, if I could make the choice; but indeed it isn't what you fancy;
it is not so bad as that; and just to put your good heart at rest, I will tell you one thing:
the moment I choose, I can be rid of Mr. Hyde. I give you my hand upon that; and I thank you
again and again; and I will just add one little word, Utterson, that I'm sure you'll take in
good part: this is a private matter, and I beg of you to let it sleep."

Utterson reflected a little, looking in the fire.

"I have no doubt you are perfectly right," he said at last, getting to his feet.

"Well, but since we have touched upon this business, and for the last time I hope," continued
the doctor, "there is one point I should like you to understand. I have really a very great
interest in poor Hyde. I know you have seen him; he told me so; and I fear he was rude. But
I do sincerely take a great, a very great interest in that young man; and if I am taken away,
Utterson, I wish you to promise me that you will bear with him and get his rights for him.
I think you would, if you knew all; and it would be a weight off my mind if you would promise."

"I can't pretend that I shall ever like him," said the lawyer.

"I don't ask that," pleaded Jekyll, laying his hand upon the other's arm; "I only ask for justice;
I only ask you to help him for my sake, when I am no longer here."

Utterson heaved an irrepressible sigh. "Well," said he, "I promise."

THE CAREW MURDER CASE

Nearly a year later, in the month of October 18--, London was startled by a crime of singular
ferocity, rendered all the more notable by the high position of the victim. The details were
few and startling. A maid-servant living alone in a house not far from the river had gone upstairs
to bed about eleven. Although a fog rolled over the city in the small hours, the early part
of the night was cloudless, and the lane, which the maid's window overlooked, was brilliantly
lit by the full moon. It seems she was romantically given, for she sat down upon her box, which
stood immediately under the window, and fell into a dream of musing. Never (she used to say,
with streaming tears, when she narrated that experience), never had she felt more at peace
with all men or thought more kindly of the world. And as she so sat she became aware of an
aged and beautiful gentleman with white hair drawing near along the lane: and advancing to
meet him another and very small gentleman, to whom at first she paid less attention. When they
had come within speech (which was just under the maid's eyes) the older man bowed and accosted
the other with a very pretty manner of politeness. It did not seem as if the subject of his
address were of great importance; indeed, from his pointing, it sometimes appeared as if he
were only inquiring his way; but the moon shone on his face as he spoke, and the girl was pleased
to watch it, it seemed to breathe such an innocent and old-world kindness of disposition, yet
with something high too, as of a well-founded self-content. Presently her eye wandered to the
other, and she was surprised to recognise in him a certain Mr. Hyde, who had once visited her
master, and for whom she had conceived a dislike. He had in his hand a heavy cane, with which
he was trifling; but he answered never a word, and seemed to listen with an ill-contained impatience.
And then all of a sudden he broke out in a great flame of anger, stamping with his foot, brandishing
the cane, and carrying on (as the maid described it) like a madman. The old gentleman took
a step back, with the air of one very much surprised and a trifle hurt; and at that Mr. Hyde
broke out of all bounds and clubbed him to the earth. And next moment, with ape-like fury,
he was trampling his victim under foot, and hailing down a storm of blows, under which the
bones were audibly shattered and the body jumped upon the roadway. At the horror of these sights
and sounds the maid fainted.

It was two o'clock when she came to herself and called for the police. The murderer was gone
long ago; but there lay his victim in the middle of the lane, incredibly mangled. The stick
with which the deed had been done, although it was of some rare and very tough and heavy wood,
had broken in the middle under the stress of this insensate cruelty; and one splintered half
had rolled in the neighbouring gutter--the other, without doubt, had been carried away by the
murderer. A purse and a gold watch were found upon the victim; but no cards or papers, except
a sealed and stamped envelope, which he had been probably carrying to the post, and which bore
the name and address of Mr. Utterson.

This was brought to the lawyer the next morning before he was out of bed; and he had no sooner
seen it, and been told the circumstances, than he shot out a solemn lip. "I shall say nothing
till I have seen the body," said he; "this may be very serious. Have the kindness to wait while
I dress." And with the same grave countenance he hurried through his breakfast and drove to
the police station, whither the body had been carried. As soon as he came into the cell he nodded.

"Yes," said he, "I recognise him. I am sorry to say that this is Sir Danvers Carew."

"Good God, sir," exclaimed the officer, "is it possible?" And the next moment his eye lighted
up with professional ambition. "This will make a deal of noise," he said. "And perhaps you
can help us to the man." And he briefly narrated what the maid had seen, and showed the broken
stick.

Mr. Utterson had already quailed at the name of Hyde; but when the stick was laid before him
he could doubt no longer; broken and battered as it was, he recognised it for one that he had
himself presented many years before to Henry Jekyll.

"Is this Mr. Hyde a person of small stature?" he inquired.

"Particularly small and particularly wicked-looking, is what the maid calls him," said the officer.

Mr. Utterson reflected; and then, raising his head, "If you will come with me in my cab," he
said, "I think I can take you to his house."

It was by this time about nine in the morning, and the first fog of the season. A great chocolate-coloured
pall lowered over heaven, but the wind was continually charging and routing these embattled
vapours; so that as the cab crawled from street to street, Mr. Utterson beheld a marvellous
number of degrees and hues of twilight; for here it would be dark like the back-end of evening;
and there would be a glow of a rich, lurid brown, like the light of some strange conflagration;
and here, for a moment, the fog would be quite broken up, and a haggard shaft of daylight would
glance in between the swirling wreaths. The dismal quarter of Soho seen under these changing
glimpses, with its muddy ways, and slatternly passengers, and its lamps, which had never been
extinguished or had been kindled afresh to combat this mournful re-invasion of darkness, seemed,
in the lawyer's eyes, like a district of some city in a nightmare.

The thoughts of his mind, besides, were of the gloomiest dye; and when he glanced at the companion
of his drive, he was conscious of some touch of that terror of the law and the law's officers
which may at times assail the most honest.

As the cab drew up before the address indicated, the fog lifted a little, and showed him a
dingy street, a gin-palace, a low French eating-house, a shop for the retail of penny numbers
and twopenny salads, many ragged children huddled in the doorways, and many women of many different
nationalities passing out, key in hand, to have a morning glass; and the next moment the fog
settled down again upon that part, as brown as umber, and cut him off from his blackguardly
surroundings. This was the home of Henry Jekyll's favourite; of a man who was heir to a quarter
of a million sterling.

An ivory-faced and silvery-haired old woman opened the door. She had an evil face, smoothed
by hypocrisy; but her manners were excellent. Yes, she said, this was Mr. Hyde's, but he was
not at home; he had been in that night very late, but had gone away again in less than an hour;
there was nothing strange in that; his habits were very irregular, and he was often absent;
for instance, it was nearly two months since she had seen him till yesterday.

"Very well then, we wish to see his rooms," said the lawyer; and when the woman began to declare
it was impossible, "I had better tell you who this person is," he added. "This is Inspector
Newcomen of Scotland Yard."

A flash of odious joy appeared upon the woman's face. "Ah!" said she, "he is in trouble! What
has he done?"

Mr. Utterson and the inspector exchanged glances. "He don't seem a very popular character,"
observed the latter. "And now, my good woman, just let me and this gentleman have a look about us."

In the whole extent of the house, which but for the old woman remained otherwise empty, Mr.
Hyde had only used a couple of rooms; but these were furnished with luxury and good taste.
A closet was filled with wine; the plate was of silver, the napery elegant; a good picture
hung upon the walls, a gift (as Utterson supposed) from Henry Jekyll, who was much of a connoisseur;
and the carpets were of many plies and agreeable in colour. At this moment, however, the rooms
bore every mark of having been recently and hurriedly ransacked; clothes lay about the floor,
with their pockets inside out; lockfast drawers stood open; and on the hearth there lay a pile
of grey ashes, as though many papers had been burned. From these embers the inspector disinterred
the butt-end of a green cheque-book, which had resisted the action of the fire; the other half
of the stick was found behind the door; and as this clinched his suspicions, the officer declared
himself delighted. A visit to the bank, where several thousand pounds were found to be lying
to the murderer's credit, completed his gratification.

"You may depend upon it, sir," he told Mr. Utterson: "I have him in my hand. He must have lost
his head, or he never would have left the stick or, above all, burned the cheque-book. Why,
money's life to the man. We have nothing to do but wait for him at the bank, and get out the
handbills."

This last, however, was not so easy of accomplishment; for Mr. Hyde had numbered few familiars--even
the master of the servant-maid had only seen him twice; his family could nowhere be traced;
he had never been photographed; and the few who could describe him differed widely, as common
observers will. Only on one point were they agreed; and that was the haunting sense of unexpressed
deformity with which the fugitive impressed his beholders.

INCIDENT OF THE LETTER

It was late in the afternoon when Mr. Utterson found his way to Dr. Jekyll's door, where he
was at once admitted by Poole, and carried down by the kitchen offices and across a yard which
had once been a garden to the building which was indifferently known as the laboratory or the
dissecting-rooms. The doctor had bought the house from the heirs of a celebrated surgeon; and,
his own tastes being rather chemical than anatomical, had changed the destination of the block
at the bottom of the garden. It was the first time that the lawyer had been received in that
part of his friend's quarters; and he eyed the dingy windowless structure with curiosity, and
gazed round with a distasteful sense of strangeness as he crossed the theatre, once crowded
with eager students and now lying gaunt and silent, the tables laden with chemical apparatus,
the floor strewn with crates and littered with packing straw, and the light falling dimly through
the foggy cupola. At the farther end, a flight of stairs mounted to a door covered with red
baize; and through this, Mr. Utterson was at last received into the doctor's cabinet. It was
a large room, fitted round with glass presses, furnished, among other things, with a cheval-glass
and a business-table, and looking out upon the court by three dusty windows barred with iron.
The fire burned in the grate; a lamp was set lighted on the chimney shelf, for even in the
houses the fog began to lie thickly; and there, close up to the warmth, sat Dr. Jekyll, looking
deadly sick; he did not rise to meet his visitor, but held out a cold hand and bade him welcome
in a changed voice.

"And now," said Mr. Utterson, as soon as Poole had left them, "you have heard the news?"

The doctor shuddered. "They were crying it in the square," he said. "I heard them in my dining-room."

"One word," said the lawyer. "Carew was my client, but so are you, and I want to know what
I am doing. You have not been mad enough to hide this fellow?"

"Utterson, I swear to God," cried the doctor, "I swear to God I will never set eyes on him
again. I bind my honour to you that I am done with him in this world. It is all at an end.
And indeed he does not want my help; you do not know him as I do; he is safe, he is quite safe;
mark my words, he will never more be heard of."

The lawyer listened gloomily; he did not like his friend's feverish manner. "You seem pretty
sure of him," said he; "and for your sake, I hope you may be right. If it came to a trial your
name might appear."

"I am quite sure of him," replied Jekyll; "I have grounds for certainty that I cannot share
with any one. But there is one thing on which you may advise me. I have--I have received a
letter; and I am at a loss whether I should show it to the police. I should like to leave it
in your hands, Utterson; you would judge wisely, I am sure; I have so great a trust in you."

"You fear, I suppose, that it might lead to his detection?" asked the lawyer.

"No," said the other. "I cannot say that I care what becomes of Hyde; I am quite done with
him. I was thinking of my own character, which this hateful business has rather exposed."

Utterson ruminated awhile; he was surprised at his friend's selfishness, and yet relieved by
it. "Well," said he at last, "let me see the letter."

The letter was written in an odd, upright hand and signed "Edward Hyde": and it signified,
briefly enough, that the writer's benefactor, Dr. Jekyll, whom he had long so unworthily repaid
for a thousand generosities, need labour under no alarm for his safety, as he had means of
escape on which he placed a sure dependence. The lawyer liked this letter well enough; it put
a better colour on the intimacy than he had looked for; and he blamed himself for some of his
past suspicions.

"Have you the envelope?" he asked.

"I burned it," replied Jekyll, "before I thought what I was about. But it bore no postmark.
The note was handed in."

"Shall I keep this and sleep upon it?" asked Utterson.

"I wish you to judge for me entirely," was the reply. "I have lost confidence in myself."

"Well, I shall consider," returned the lawyer.--"And now one word more: it was Hyde who dictated
the terms in your will about that disappearance?"

The doctor seemed seized with a qualm of faintness; he shut his mouth tight and nodded.

"I knew it," said Utterson. "He meant to murder you. You have had a fine escape."

"I have had what is far more to the purpose," returned the doctor solemnly: "I have had a lesson--O
God, Utterson, what a lesson I have had!" And he covered his face for a moment with his hands.

On his way out, the lawyer stopped and had a word or two with Poole. "By the by," said he,
"there was a letter handed in to-day: what was the messenger like?" But Poole was positive
nothing had come except by post; "and only circulars by that," he added.

This news sent off the visitor with his fears renewed. Plainly the letter had come by the laboratory
door; possibly indeed, it had been written in the cabinet; and if that were so, it must be
differently judged, and handled with the more caution. The newsboys, as he went, were crying
themselves hoarse along the footways: "Special edition. Shocking murder of an M.P." That was
the funeral oration of one friend and client; and he could not help a certain apprehension
lest the good name of another should be sucked down in the eddy of the scandal. It was, at
least, a ticklish decision that he had to make; and, self-reliant as he was by habit, he began
to cherish a longing for advice. It was not to be had directly; but perhaps, he thought, it
might be fished for.

Presently after, he sat on one side of his own hearth, with Mr. Guest, his head clerk, upon
the other, and midway between, at a nicely calculated distance from the fire, a bottle of a
particular old wine that had long dwelt unsunned in the foundations of his house. The fog still
slept on the wing above the drowned city, where the lamps glimmered like carbuncles; and through
the muffle and smother of these fallen clouds, the procession of the town's life was still
rolling on through the great arteries with a sound as of a mighty wind. But the room was gay
with firelight. In the bottle the acids were long ago resolved; the imperial dye had softened
with time, as the colour grows richer in stained windows; and the glow of hot autumn afternoons
on hillside vineyards was ready to be set free and to disperse the fogs of London. Insensibly
the lawyer melted. There was no man from whom he kept fewer secrets than Mr. Guest; and he
was not always sure that he kept as many as he meant. Guest had often been on business to the
doctor's; he knew Poole; he could scarce have failed to hear of Mr. Hyde's familiarity about
the house; he might draw conclusions: was it not as well, then, that he should see a letter
which put that mystery to rights? and above all since Guest, being a great student and critic
of handwriting, would consider the step natural and obliging? The clerk, besides, was a man
of counsel; he would scarce read so strange a document without dropping a remark; and by that
remark Mr. Utterson might shape his future course.

"This is a sad business about Sir Danvers," he said.

"Yes, sir, indeed. It has elicited a great deal of public feeling," returned Guest. "The man,
of course, was mad."

"I should like to hear your views on that," replied Utterson. "I have a document here in his
handwriting; it is between ourselves, for I scarce know what to do about it; it is an ugly
business at the best. But there it is; quite in your way: a murderer's autograph."

Guest's eyes brightened, and he sat down at once and studied it with passion. "No, sir," he
said; "not mad; but it is an odd hand."

"And by all accounts a very odd writer," added the lawyer.

Just then the servant entered with a note.

"Is that from Dr. Jekyll, sir?" inquired the clerk. "I thought I knew the writing. Anything
private, Mr. Utterson?"

"Only an invitation to dinner. Why? do you want to see it?"

"One moment. I thank you, sir"; and the clerk laid the two sheets of paper alongside and sedulously
compared their contents. "Thank you, sir," he said at last, returning both; "it's a very interesting
autograph."

There was a pause, during which Mr. Utterson struggled with himself. "Why did you compare them,
Guest?" he inquired suddenly.

"Well, sir," returned the clerk, "there's a rather singular resemblance; the two hands are
in many points identical: only differently sloped."

"Rather quaint," said Utterson.

"It is, as you say, rather quaint," returned Guest.

"I wouldn't speak of this note, you know," said the master.

"No, sir," said the clerk. "I understand."

But no sooner was Mr. Utterson alone that night than he locked the note into his safe, where
it reposed from that time forward. "What!" he thought. "Henry Jekyll forge for a murderer!"
And his blood ran cold in his veins.

REMARKABLE INCIDENT OF DR. LANYON

Time ran on; thousands of pounds were offered in reward, for the death of Sir Danvers was resented
as a public injury; but Mr. Hyde had disappeared out of the ken of the police as though he
had never existed. Much of his past was unearthed, indeed, and all disreputable: tales came
out of the man's cruelty, at once so callous and violent, of his vile life, of his strange
associates, of the hatred that seemed to have surrounded his career; but of his present whereabouts,
not a whisper. From the time he had left the house in Soho on the morning of the murder, he
was simply blotted out; and gradually, as time drew on, Mr. Utterson began to recover from
the hotness of his alarm, and to grow more at quiet with himself. The death of Sir Danvers
was, to his way of thinking, more than paid for by the disappearance of Mr. Hyde. Now that
that evil influence had been withdrawn, a new life began for Dr. Jekyll. He came out of his
seclusion, renewed relations with his friends, became once more their familiar guest and entertainer;
and whilst he had always been known for charities, he was now no less distinguished for religion.
He was busy, he was much in the open air, he did good; his face seemed to open and brighten,
as if with an inward consciousness of service; and for more than two months the doctor was
at peace.

On the 8th of January Utterson had dined at the doctor's with a small party; Lanyon had been
there; and the face of the host had looked from one to the other as in the old days when the
trio were inseparable friends. On the 12th, and again on the 14th, the door was shut against
the lawyer. "The doctor was confined to the house," Poole said, "and saw no one." On the 15th
he tried again, and was again refused; and having now been used for the last two months to
see his friend almost daily, he found this return of solitude to weigh upon his spirits. The
fifth night he had in Guest to dine with him; and the sixth he betook himself to Dr. Lanyon's.

There at least he was not denied admittance; but when he came in, he was shocked at the change
which had taken place in the doctor's appearance. He had his death-warrant written legibly
upon his face. The rosy man had grown pale; his flesh had fallen away; he was visibly balder
and older; and yet it was not so much these tokens of a swift physical decay that arrested
the lawyer's notice, as a look in the eye and quality of manner that seemed to testify to some
deep-seated terror of the mind. It was unlikely that the doctor should fear death; and yet
that was what Utterson was tempted to suspect. "Yes," he thought; "he is a doctor, he must
know his own state and that his days are counted; and the knowledge is more than he can bear."
And yet when Utterson remarked on his ill-looks, it was with an air of great firmness that
Lanyon declared himself a doomed man.

"I have had a shock," he said, "and I shall never recover. It is a question of weeks. Well,
life has been pleasant; I liked it; yes, sir, I used to like it. I sometimes think if we knew
all we should be more glad to get away."

"Jekyll is ill too," observed Utterson. "Have you seen him?"

But Lanyon's face changed, and he held up a trembling hand. "I wish to see or hear no more
of Dr. Jekyll," he said in a loud, unsteady voice. "I am quite done with that person; and I
beg that you will spare me any allusion to one whom I regard as dead."

"Tut-tut," said Mr. Utterson; and then, after a considerable pause, "Can't I do anything?"
he inquired. "We are three very old friends, Lanyon; we shall not live to make others."

"Nothing can be done," returned Lanyon; "ask himself."

"He will not see me," said the lawyer.

"I am not surprised at that," was the reply. "Some day, Utterson, after I am dead, you may
perhaps come to learn the right and wrong of this. I cannot tell you. And in the meantime,
if you can sit and talk with me of other things, for God's sake, stay and do so; but if you
cannot keep clear of this accursed topic, then, in God's name, go, for I cannot bear it."

As soon as he got home, Utterson sat down and wrote to Jekyll, complaining of his exclusion
from the house, and asking the cause of this unhappy break with Lanyon; and the next day brought
him a long answer, often very pathetically worded, and sometimes darkly mysterious in drift.
The quarrel with Lanyon was incurable. "I do not blame our old friend," Jekyll wrote, "but
I share his view that we must never meet. I mean from henceforth to lead a life of extreme
seclusion; you must not be surprised, nor must you doubt my friendship, if my door is often
shut even to you. You must suffer me to go my own dark way. I have brought on myself a punishment
and a danger that I cannot name. If I am the chief of sinners, I am the chief of sufferers
also. I could not think that this earth contained a place for sufferings and terrors so unmanning;
and you can but do one thing, Utterson, to lighten this destiny, and that is to respect my
silence." Utterson was amazed; the dark influence of Hyde had been withdrawn, the doctor had
returned to his old tasks and amities; a week ago, the prospect had smiled with every promise
of a cheerful and an honoured age; and now in a moment, friendship and peace of mind and the
whole tenor of his life were wrecked. So great and unprepared a change pointed to madness;
but in view of Lanyon's manner and words, there must lie for it some deeper ground.

