'Of course she shall come.'

'And him.' To this she made no answer, except with the muscles of her face, which involuntarily
showed her antagonism to the order she had received. 'Bid her bring her husband with her,'
said the banker.

'He would not come,--though I were to ask him.'

'Then let it be on his own head.'

'I will not ask him,' she said at last, looking away across the room at the blank wall. 'I
will not belie my own heart. I do not want to see him here. He has so far got the better of
me; but I will not put my neck beneath his feet for him to tread on me.'

Then there was a pause;--not that he intended to allow her disobedience to pass, but that he
was driven to bethink himself how he might best oppose her. 'Woman,' he said, 'you can neither
forgive nor forget.'

'He has got my child from me,--my only child.'

'Does he persecute your child? Is she not happy in his love? Even if he have trespassed against
you, who are you that you should not forgive a trespass? I say that he shall be asked to come
here, that men may know that in her own father's house she is regarded as his true and honest
wife.'

'Men!' she murmured. 'That men may know!' But she did not again tell him that she would not
obey his command.

She sat all the remainder of the day alone in her room, hardly touching the work which she
had beside her, not opening the book which lay by her hand on the table. She was thinking of
the letter which she knew that she must write, but she did not rise to get pen and ink, nor
did she even propose to herself that the letter should be written then. Not a word was said
about it all the evening. On the next morning the banker pronounced his intention of going
into town, but before he started he referred to the order he had given. 'Have you written to
Hester?' he asked. She merely shook her head. 'Then write to-day.' So saying, he tottered down
the steps with his stick and got into the fly.

About noon she did get her paper and ink, and very slowly wrote her letter. Though her heart
was, in truth, yearning towards her daughter,--though at that moment she could have made any
possible sacrifice for her child had her child been apart from the man she hated,--she could
not in her sullenness force her words into a form of affection.

    'DEAR HESTER,' she said. 'Of course I shall be glad to see you and
    your boy. On what day would it suit you to come, and how long would
    you like to stay? I fear you will find me and your father but dull
    companions after the life you are now used to. If Mr. Caldigate
    would like to come with you, your father bids me say that he will
    be glad to see him.--Your loving mother,

    'MARY BOLTON.'

She endeavoured, in writing her letter, to obey the commands that had been left with her, but
she could not go nearer to it than this. She could not so far belie her heart as to tell her
daughter that she herself would be glad to see the man. Then it took her long to write the
address. She did write it at last;

  Mrs. JOHN CALDIGATE,
  FOLKING.

But as she wrote it she told herself that she believed it to be a lie.

When the letter reached Hester there was a consultation over it, to which old Mr. Caldigate
was admitted. It was acknowledged on all sides that anything would be better than a family
quarrel. The spirit in which the invitation had been written was to be found in every word
of it. There was not a word to show that Mrs. Bolton had herself accepted the decision to which
everyone else had come in the matter;--everything, rather, to show that she had not done so.
But, as the squire said, it does not do to inquire too closely into all people's inner beliefs.
'If everybody were to say what he thinks about everybody, nobody would ever go to see anybody.'
It was soon decided that Hester, with her baby, should go on an early day to Puritan Grange,
and should stay there for a couple of nights. But there was a difficulty as to Caldigate himself.
He was naturally enough anxious to send Hester without him, but she was as anxious to take
him. 'It isn't for my own sake,' she said,--'because I shall like to have you there with me.
Of course it will be very dull for you, but it will be so much better that we should all be
reconciled, and that everyone should know that we are so.'

'It would only be a pretence,' said he.

'People must pretend sometimes, John,' she answered. At last it was decided that he should
take her, reaching the place about the hour of lunch, so that he might again break bread in
her father's house,--that he should then leave her there, and that at the end of the two days
she should return to Folking.

On the day named they reached Puritan Grange at the hour fixed. Both Caldigate and Hester were
very nervous as to their reception, and got out of the carriage almost without a word to each
other. The old gardener, who had been so busy during Hester's imprisonment, was there to take
the luggage; and Hester's maid carried the child as Caldigate, with his wife behind him, walked
up the steps and rang the bell. There was no coming out to meet them, no greeting them even
in the hall. Mr. Bolton was perhaps too old and too infirm for such running out, and it was
hardly within his nature to do so. They were shown into the well-known morning sitting-room,
and there they found Hester's father in his chair, and Mrs. Bolton standing up to receive them.

Hester, after kissing her father, threw herself into her mother's arms before a word had been
said to Caldigate. Then the banker addressed him with a set speech, which no doubt had been
prepared in the old man's mind. 'I am very glad,' he said, 'that you have brought this unhappy
matter to so good a conclusion, Mr. Caldigate.'

'It has been a great trouble,--worse almost for Hester than for me.'

'Yes, it has been sad enough for Hester,--and the more so because it was natural that others
should believe that which the jury and the judge declared to have been proved. How should any
one know otherwise?'

'Just so, Mr. Bolton. If they will accept the truth now, I shall be satisfied.'

'It will come, but perhaps slowly to some folk. You should in justice remember that your own
early follies have tended to bring this all about.'

It was a grim welcome, and the last speech was one which Caldigate found it difficult to answer.
It was so absolutely true that it admitted of no answer. He thought that it might have been
spared, and shrugged his shoulders as though to say that that part of the subject was one which
he did not care to discuss. Hester heard it, and quivered with anger even in her mother's arms.
Mrs. Bolton heard it, and in the midst of her kisses made an inward protest against the word
used. Follies indeed! Why had he not spoken out the truth as he knew it, and told the man of
his vices?

But it was necessary that she too should address him. 'I hope I see you quite well, Mr. Caldigate,'
she said, giving him her hand.

'The prison has not disagreed with me,' he said, with an attempt at a smile, 'though it was
not an agreeable residence.'

'If you used your leisure there to meditate on your soul's welfare, it may have been of service
to you.'

It was very grim. But the banker having made his one severe speech, became kind in his manner,
and almost genial. He asked after his son-in-law's future intentions, and when he was told
that they thought of spending some months abroad so as to rid themselves in that way of the
immediate record of their past misery, he was gracious enough to express his approval of the
plan; and then when the lunch was announced, and the two ladies had passed out of the room,
he said a word to his son-in-law in private. 'As I was convinced, Mr. Caldigate, when I first
heard the evidence, that that other woman was your wife, and was therefore very anxious to
separate my daughter from you, so am I satisfied now that the whole thing was a wicked plot.'

'I am very glad to hear you say that, sir.'

'Now, if you please, we will go in to lunch.'

As long as Caldigate remained in the house Mrs. Bolton was almost silent. The duties of a hostess
she performed in a stiff ungainly way. She asked him whether he would have hashed mutton or
cold beef, and allowed him to pour a little sherry into her wine-glass. But beyond this there
was not much conversation. Mr. Bolton had said what he had to say, and sat leaning forward
with his chin over his plate perfectly silent. It is to be supposed that he had some pleasure
in having his daughter once more beneath his roof, especially as he had implored his wife not
to deprive him of that happiness during the small remainder of his days. But he sat there with
no look of joy upon his face. That she should be stern, sullen, and black-browed was to be
expected. She had been compelled to entertain their guest; and was not at all the woman to
bear such compulsion meekly.

The hour at last wore itself away, and the carriage which was to take Caldigate back to Folking
was again at the door. It was a Tuesday. 'You will send for me on Thursday,' she said to him
in a whisper.

'Certainly.'

'Early? After breakfast, you know. I suppose you will not come yourself.'

'Not here, I think. I have done all the good that I can do, and it is pleasant to no one. But
you shall pick me up in the town. I shall go in and see your brother Robert.' Then he went,
and Hester was left with her parents.

As she turned back from the hall-door she found her mother standing at the foot of the stairs,
waiting for her. 'Shall I come with you, mamma?' she said. Holding each other's arms they went
up, and so passed into Hester's room, where the nurse was sitting with the boy. 'Let her go
into my room,' said the elder lady. So the nurse took the baby away, and they were alone together.
'Oh, Hester, Hester, my child!' said the mother, flinging her arms wildly round her daughter.

The whole tenor of her face was changed at that moment. Even to Hester she had been stern,
forbidding, and sullen. There had not been a gracious movement about her lips or eyes since
the visitors had come. A stranger, could a stranger have seen it all, would have said that
the mother did not love her child, that there was no touch of tenderness about the woman's
heart. But now, when she was alone, with the one thing on earth that was dear to her, she melted
at once. In a moment Hester found herself seated on the sofa, with her mother kneeling before
her, sobbing, and burying her face in the loved one's lap. 'You love me, Hester,--still.'

'Love you, mamma! You know I love you.'

'Not as it used to be. I am nothing to you now. I can do nothing for you now. You turn away
from me, because--because--because--'

'I have never turned away from you, mamma.'

'Because I could not bear that you should be taken away from me and given to him.'

'He is good, mamma. If you would only believe that he is good!'

'He is not good. God only is good, my child.'

'He is good to me.'

'Ah, yes;--he has taken you from me. When I thought you were coming back, in trouble, in disgrace
from the world, nameless, a poor injured thing, with your nameless babe, then I comforted myself
because I thought that I could be all and everything to you. I would have poured balm into
the hurt wounds. I would have prayed with you, and you and I would have been as one before
the Lord.'

'You are not sorry, mamma, that I have got my husband again?'

'Oh, I have tried,--I have tried not to be sorry.'

'You do not believe now that that woman was his wife?'

