LINDA TRESSEL

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE

First published anonymously in serial form October, 1867, through May, 1868, in Blackwood's
Magazine and in book form in 1868. Trollope's authorship was acknowledged when the book was
re-published a decade later.

CHAPTER I

The troubles and sorrows of Linda Tressel, who is the heroine of the little story now about
to be told, arose from the too rigid virtue of her nearest and most loving friend,--as troubles
will sometimes come from rigid virtue when rigid virtue is not accompanied by sound sense,
and especially when it knows little or nothing of the softness of mercy.

The nearest and dearest friend of Linda Tressel was her aunt, the widow Staubach--Madame Charlotte
Staubach, as she had come to be called in the little town of Nuremberg where she lived. In
Nuremberg all houses are picturesque, but you shall go through the entire city and find no
more picturesque abode than the small red house with the three gables close down by the river-side
in the Schütt island--the little island made by the river Pegnitz in the middle of the town.
They who have seen the widow Staubach's house will have remembered it, not only because of
its bright colour and its sharp gables, but also because of the garden which runs between the
house and the water's edge. And yet the garden was no bigger than may often nowadays be seen
in the balconies of the mansions of Paris and of London. Here Linda Tressel lived with her
aunt, and here also Linda had been born.

Linda was the orphan of Herr Tressel, who had for many years been what we may call town-clerk
to the magistrates of Nuremberg. Chance in middle life had taken him to Cologne--a German city
indeed, as was his own, but a city so far away from Nuremberg that its people and its manners
were as strange to him as though he had gone beyond the reach of his own mother-tongue. But
here he had married, and from Cologne had brought home his bride to the picturesque, red, gabled
house by the water's side in his own city. His wife's only sister had also married, in her
own town; and that sister was the virtuous but rigid aunt Charlotte, to live with whom had
been the fate in life of Linda Tressel.

It need not be more than told in the fewest words that the town-clerk and the town-clerk's
wife both died when Linda was but an infant, and that the husband of her aunt Charlotte died
also. In Nuremberg there is no possession so much coveted and so dearly loved as that of the
house in which the family lives. Herr Tressel had owned the house with the three gables, and
so had his father before him, and to the father it had come from an uncle whose name had been
different,--and to him from some other relative. But it was an old family property, and, like
other houses in Nuremberg, was to be kept in the hands of the family while the family might
remain, unless some terrible ruin should supervene.

When Linda was but six years old, her aunt, the widow, came to Nuremberg to inhabit the house
which the Tressels had left as an only legacy to their daughter; but it was understood when
she did so that a right of living in the house for the remainder of her days was to belong
to Madame Staubach because of the surrender she thus made of whatever of a home was then left
to her in Cologne. There was probably no deed executed to this effect; nor would it have been
thought that any deed was necessary. Should Linda Tressel, when years had rolled on, be taken
as a wife, and should the husband live in the red house, there would still be room for Linda's
aunt. And by no husband in Nuremberg, who should be told that such an arrangement had been
anticipated, would such an arrangement be opposed. Mothers-in-law, aunts, maiden sisters, and
dependent female relatives, in all degrees, are endured with greater patience and treated with
a gentler hand in patient Bavaria than in some lands farther west where life is faster, and
in which men's shoulders are more easily galled by slight burdens. And as poor little Linda
Tressel had no other possession but the house, as all other income, slight as it might be,
was to be brought with her by aunt Charlotte, aunt Charlotte had at least a right to the free
use of the roof over her head. It is necessary that so much should be told; but Linda's troubles
did not come from the divided right which she had in her father's house. Linda's troubles,
as has before been said, sprang not from her aunt's covetousness, but from her aunt's virtue--perhaps
we might more truly say, from her aunt's religion.

Nuremberg is one of those German cities in which a stranger finds it difficult to understand
the religious idiosyncrasies of the people. It is in Bavaria, and Bavaria, as he knows, is
Roman Catholic. But Nuremberg is Protestant, and the stranger, when he visits the two cathedrals--those
of St. Sebald and St. Lawrence--finds it hard to believe that they should not be made to resound
with masses, so like are they in all respects to other Romanist cathedrals which he has seen.
But he is told that they are Lutheran and Protestant, and he is obliged to make himself aware
that the prevailing religion of Nuremberg is Lutheran, in spite of what to him are the Catholic
appearances of the churches. Now the widow Staubach was among Protestants the most Protestant,
going far beyond the ordinary amenities of Lutheran teaching, as at present taught, in her
religious observances, her religious loves, and her religious antipathies. The ordinary Lutheran
of the German cities does not wear his religion very conspicuously. It is not a trouble to
him in his daily life, causing him to live in terror as to the life to come. At one point, however, that discussion was souring in terms
that appeared in the Daily moderate some veiled insults against the inspiration and the editors
of Independence. Miguel was tried in the case of writing an article by answering these injuries,
it was a true prodigy of skill: devolvíanse more than all those of the enemy, but in a way so fine
and well concealed that it was impossible seek redress in the courts, and it was not easy either to
find grounds for a duel. The article was read in the writing and was warmly applauded. Unfortunately,
this time Mendoza was when he came to discover all the secret that her friend had stored for years.
To bring the evidence in the article, is authorized without consulting anyone change one of
its paragraphs getting another homegrown. By virtue of this unfortunate occurrence, what was
an incisive and thoughtful words, became rude and vicious insult. In As Miguel, reading the morning
newspaper, learned of the change, revolviósele bile, realizing that he could not produce fatal
consequences, was the drafting, and not finding Mendoza began to speak in front of their peers
what we have already seen in another chapter.

All his calculations were confirmed.

Not many hours passed without two gentlemen, The principal sponsors of the monarchy should
come to demand satisfaction of Independence personal. Mendoza, pale and trembling, replied that
he was not the author of the article, and promised that the next day's number would make a
correction. There are many who will pass word to Riverita, who hastily turned to writing, before
it had out these gentlemen. So it came, broke what had been agreed, said it was him the letter,
objected to publish any correction, and named by sponsors to Count Rivers and a fellow named
Meredith. Then he returned home, and that was when he showed Julita Maxi's letter.

The sponsors of the contenders took a whole day and used all the saliva
of throats to discuss the terms of the challenge.

The most difficult was the choice weapons. The Earl of Rivers, on the grounds that the sponsored
person was challenged, he believed he had right to choose them, and argued with great heat.
In fact, a strong emphasis on the subject, because it was knowing that the reporter thought moderate
choose the sword, not because you handle with great skill, but because, given its height and
bulk, should take advantage of the adversary. The godparents of the same tenacity that defended
their right, as the victim. At ten of the night had not yet been fixed. In one of his interviews with
Rios, Miguel, tired the end of such delay, asked him to accept any conditions it wanted to
put the contrary.

Under this, it was agreed that the match will be a sword pointed. Hour, seven am; site, Vistalegre
fifth in Carabanchel.

It was not home at night, passed word to his stepmother, warning that should ensure a friend sick
so that she and Julia were with care. Did not leave the casino, where he spent all afternoon
waiting for the outcome of the discussion of the sponsors. Up to two played in the morning
sitting, when the game broke up, he was walking a long time by one of the rooms; tired at the
end, he lay on a couch, and soon many minutes set it on a heavy sleeper and lethargic. The strain
on his nerves had been the last hours, was finished by a enervation. Slept half an hour, and during
it, dreamed a thousand absurdities: was now in a huge deserted palace, where some shade, which
was crossed, caused a strange terror that had never felt, now would break into a church with a
man he never met, and that turned out to be D. Valentine's uncle, Maxi, which, without knowing
how it turned into a cat and threw on him, clawed his neck: it turned out at sea, floating
like a buoy, at the mercy of the waves, without hope no one came to his rescue.

- Miss, Miss ...

- Hey!

What's up? - Said rubbing his eyes.

- Let's shut down.

- Well ... Do you know V. if you are in the playroom Mr. Meredith?

- I think so, sir.

He went over there and found her friend making good money.

At his entrance, he Merelo smiled happy and expansive, well clearly
understood at that moment no much care that Michael was going to kill.

In earnings was still a long time, until you see signs that luck
is twisted, got up and left as a skilled player the room hugging his
friend.

- What time is it, Miguelillo?

- The quarter to five.

-
Is there a mood, right? - Asked hugging him back warmly.

- Yeah,
man, yeah!

I have a mind and your money - said with a smile.

- Want to go to Dona Mariquita make chocolate?

- Come on.

While taking breakfast, Meredith, more and more joyful and loving,
he spoke of many things with amazing clarity, but especially fencing.

Actually this was the conversation that Then came the case, and understanding and gave him a
multitude of tips aimed all not to be hit by the head of the monarchy, but rather, from the average
the first time.

- No fakes, you see ... The blows should be rapid and decisive ... Him to let him Finte whatever
you want ... You still, serene, plumb ... to stop and answer anything else ... And fall in any
response. Well not to fall!

Miguel absentmindedly dipped in chocolate cake thinking God knows what. Close and of the six
left the establishment and straightened up the steps to Queen Street,
General Rios where he lived.

It was still pitch dark. When they arrived they saw the car at the door waiting and its owner.
Earl passed a message by the servant and not long in coming wrapped in a fur coat, the servant
came back with the Sabres. After greeting affectionately, rose into the carriage, and he started
rolling through the silent streets with harsh rattle.

When they came through the door of Toledo, starting at daybreak. Upon reaching Carabanchel it
was already clear. During the trip, the general and Meredith did not stop to talk politics.
The clear morning. To alight near the royal possession, was very cold: the trees, naked, had
their frame covered with frost. For the coach who saw the door, they realized their opponents had already
arrived, and went looking for them through the beautiful gardens the wealthy banker. Long before
reaching the designated spot, saw their black figures highlighting on the white carpet of frost.
Miguel, who until then had shown signs of being anxious and nervous, was suddenly calm, from
then until the end said a complete set of strange serenity that made highly pleased with their sponsors.
They greeted the opponents and the doctor, who should serve as the two contenders it was agreed:
Michael and moderate journalist made a slight inclination away head. Escogiose the ground,
which was a sand road better sheltered than the other by two high hedges of roses; midiéronse
sabers; despojáronse adversaries overcoats and Levites, remaining
with the vest, for the sake of the cold; colocóseles into place sword
in hand: at last, the Earl of Rivers, as the most respected person
there he was placed in the middle, arms extended with fingers taking
the tips of the two swords and walked away saying with strong intonation:

-
Gentlemen, meet VV. their duty.

The director of the monarchy was a sturdy strapping young man, thirty-four a thirty-six years
old, whose face was sad contrast on this occasion with the delicate and smallest of Rivera.
However, a few moments he realized it was not the shooter had a accompli. Miguel had thrown a few
seasons saber and foil: his opponent did not know apparently more than this ultimate weapon, it
had to be warned by the sponsors do not get up the left hand, and then place it behind your back.
But all this made him very dangerous, because instead of using the cutting edge, stretched at
every moment the tip of the blade, keeping Miguel was away. This began attacking vigorously
pulling the single hits arm, head and shoulder, his opponent, instead of stopping them, most often
broken stretching the point: in this way, three minutes into the fight became a messy assault foil. However,
the royalist journalist unwittingly threw a blow to the head; but had to be costly, because Michael
got up and answered so quickly, if not breaks time you slit your face. Since then he threw
more cuts. The fight lasted about fifteen minutes without result. Miguel, who was attacking, he
was fatigadísimo, therefore, that the did this out loud, and sponsors forced them to stay and
gave them ten minutes rest. During that time, Michael wore the coat and went to smoke a cigarette
on a bench as calmly, in appearance, actually quite irritated by this strange procedure its opposite.
Again started the fight, did not work either in quite some time, despite the fact that Miguel, increasingly
impatient, attacked furiously beating his sword to strike of his adversary, but it had iron fist,
and barely managed to tip away a moment. Eight or ten minutes to feel tired again, but dared
not declare shame. Loosened in the attack, making it increasingly weak and disorganized. Noticed
the contrary, it began to throw frequent thrusts: hardly had the strength to stop them. After the robust
reporter I broke the sword with theirs by force, and plunged the tip into the chest.

Miguel fell dropping a heavy blood flow. Everyone rushed to his aid.

The director of The Monarchy stammered a few words expressing his feelings, to which the injured could
not answer. The doctor made the first treatment and continuing act was transferred to the car,
that led to that company and their sponsors home.

XVII

The doctor's prognosis was reserved at first.

After twenty-four hours said his condition was serious but not desperate.

Julia had suffered several nervous breakdowns in the course of that day, in view of its dying
brother had caused deep and terrible impression: no human force to make him swallow any food
or medicine. The shock of his mother was also great, but trasformose sudden and harsh living
irritation, which fell victim to the sponsors, the doctor, the servants, and even the so Miguel
was found in a state of suffering: the brigadiera great concern was not that it be cured,
but knowing who had the blame for the misfortune was so intemperate and unrestrained, the Earl
of Rivers never set foot over the house, merely to ask every day by a servant the patient's
condition.

Fortunately, the danger came suddenly, after five days and was allowed to talk, but not much. Julia
never left his bedside. The mother was charged with receiving numerous visitors who came, and
certainly not tired of telling everyone the details of the disaster.

One afternoon, Julia was, as usual, sewing the bedside of the sick,
the which he slept.

- Listen, Julia - .-- waking suddenly said you
do me a favor?

- What?

- Read me the letter again ..... Maximina
The day that I was not to learn anything .....

Julia smiled with
an air of triumph.

In fact, for days he watched his brother some predisposition to melancholy
quite alien to his character often spend hours Eye static, motionless,
showing signs of being ambushed in a tangle of thoughts sad, annoyed
the company of friends and even came to dislike her sister I read
too long .-- Miguel Maximina think - you said it to him so thoughtful.

What is the mystery of love will escape a young seventeen years?
- Well, a little penis; and wheezing.

And so, as I thought the little girl.

- I look - answered hastily out of the bedroom.

Soon came to her in the hand, sat back and began to read it with great
calm, looking askance at the wounded.

At the end, he had moist eyes, staring at the ceiling and said:

- Poor child!

Julia put the letter on his chest, picked up sewing again and began to move the needle in silence.
After several minutes the patient again said:

- I will ask another favor ...

- Whatever you want ...

Take the
keys from my desk, they are there in the vest, opens the second drawer
left and pulls out a silver crucifix in it ... and bring it.

- Here
it is - said she had appeared a few moments, hanging on a piece of
string.

- This crucifix - said something blushing - Maxi gave me
when we parted: I broke cord, and hoping to buy another, I kept it
on the desktop.

- I have me one, do not need to buy it - said the
girl turning to leave the room and entering again instantly with a
blue cordoncito.

And without further ado took the crucifix from his hands Miguel, took out the old cord, put
the new and said casually:

- Do you want to hang it?

- Well - said Miguel getting red again.

At the time of crash, Julita his mouth to his ear and said graciously:

- If you had always brought, they would not have hurt.

And without waiting for an answer came bouncing. When he was in the hall, stood still suddenly,
thought for a moment, and in his face a smile of pleasure, he ran to his room and immediately started
writing continued.

The truth is that in the days that followed this scene, Julita said
worthy of plenipotentiary of the first order.

Few diplomats have been conducted with such skill.

He did not speak to his brother Maximina: but let him spend time alone, and when he was beside
him stood still and silent, waiting to reason that the thought of injured carry out his task,
and better alone than with help from anyone. From time to time, giving long detours, which made her
laugh, Miguel took out the tickets and chat Maximina telling for the hundredth time every
episode of their innocent love. She listened attentive, encouraged him to follow, but pocketing the
questions asked him about his plans.

This tactic seemed to excite more and more talkative of the patient, and even be warned in he wishes
to communicate certain something of more significance, but such desires could be seen contained
the reserve and the silence of Julia.

One morning, finally it came and sat down earlier than usual at his bedside. If Miguel had noticed
her, might have warned his restless little eyes and black glow singular
and in his hands some unusual tremor, but was so absorbed in his thoughts
and habitual melancholy, nothing found.

- Dime, Michael - said the
young woman lifting her head resolutely, - what will you do when you
get up?

- When I woke up ...?

What do you mean surprised ?..-- said.

- Yes, what will you do in your life?

- What do I know, girl? ... The usual.

There was a pause. Miguel hoped that his sister be given more thought: seeing that he did not,
he decided to speak.

- The truth is, Julia, I've thought a lot in these days about my situation,
not I find it so promising as at first sight. You and Mom you constitute
today my only family. With other relatives do not count for anything.
You will marry, of course. Mom ... you know how has genius, life at
her side can not be happy. On the other hand, I'm doing old (Julia
laughter). Do not laugh, but outside I do not feel old, inside need
and serenity, comfort, life catering horrifies me.

After that there was much discussion before any further step was taken, and Tetchen was quite
sure that their lodger was to be married to Linda's aunt. There was much discussion, and the
widow, shocked, perhaps, at her own cruelty, almost retreated from the offer she had made.
But Herr Steinmarc was emboldened, and was now eager, and held her to her own plan. It was
a good plan, and he was ready. He found that he could love the maiden, and he wished to take
her to his bosom at once. For a few days the widow's heart relented; for a few days there came
across her breast a frail, foolish, human idea of love and passion, and the earthly joy of
two young beings, happy in each other's arms. For a while she thought with regret of what she
was about to do, of the sacrifice to be made, of the sorrow to be endured, of the deathblow
to be given to those dreams of love, which doubtless had arisen, though hitherto they were
no more than dreams. Madame Staubach, though she was now a saint, had been once a woman, and
knew as well as any woman of what nature are the dreams of love which fill the heart of a girl.
It was because she knew them so well, that she allowed herself only a few hours of such weakness.
What! should she hesitate between heaven and hell, between God and devil, between this world
and the next, between sacrifice of time and sacrifice of eternity, when the disposal of her
own niece, her own child, her nearest and dearest, was concerned? Was it not fit that the world
should be crushed in the bosom of a young girl? and how could it be crushed so effectually
as by marrying her to an old man, one whom she respected, but who was otherwise distasteful
to her--one who, as a husband, would at first be abhorrent to her? As Madame Staubach thought
of heaven then, a girl who loved and was allowed to indulge her love could hardly go to heaven.
"Let it be so," she said to Peter Steinmarc after a few days of weak vacillation,--"let it
be so. I think that it will be good for her." Then Peter Steinmarc swore that it would be good
for Linda--that it should be good for Linda. His care should be so great that Linda might never
doubt the good. "Peter Steinmarc, I am thinking of her soul," said Madame Staubach. "I am thinking
of that too," said Peter; "one has, you know, to think of everything in turns."

Then there came to be a little difficulty as to the manner in which the proposition should
be first made to Linda Tressel. Madame Staubach thought that it should be made by Peter himself,
but Peter was of opinion that if the ice were first broken by Madame Staubach, final success
might be more probably achieved. "She owes you obedience, my friend, and she owes me none,
as yet," said Peter. There seemed to be so much of truth in this that Madame Staubach yielded,
and undertook to make the first overture to Linda on behalf of her lover.

CHAPTER II

Linda Tressel was a tall, light-built, active young woman, in full health, by no means a fine
lady, very able and very willing to assist Tetchen in the work of the house, or rather to be
assisted by Tetchen in doing it, and fit at all points to be the wife of any young burgher
in Nuremberg. And she was very pretty withal, with eager, speaking eyes, and soft luxurious
tresses, not black, but of so very dark a brown as to be counted black in some lights. It was
her aunt's care to have these tresses confined, so that nothing of their wayward obstinacy
in curling might be seen by the eyes of men; and Linda strove to obey her aunt, but the curls
would sometimes be too strong for Linda, and would be seen over her shoulders and across her
back, tempting the eyes of men sorely. Peter Steinmarc had so seen them many a time, and thought
much of them when the offer of Linda's hand was first made to him. Her face, like that of her
aunt, was oval in its form, and her complexion was dark and clear. But perhaps her greatest
beauty consisted in the half-soft, half-wild expression of her face, which, while it seemed
to declare to the world that she was mild, gentle, and, for the most part, silent, gave a vague,
doubtful promise of something that might be beyond, if only her nature were sufficiently awakened,
creating a hope and mysterious longing for something more than might be expected from a girl
brought up under the severe thraldom of Madame Charlotte Staubach,--creating a hope, or perhaps
it might be a fear. And Linda's face in this respect was the true reflex of her character.
She lived with her aunt a quiet, industrious, sober life, striving to be obedient, striving
to be religious with the religion of her aunt. She had almost brought herself to believe that
it was good for her heart to be crushed. She had quite brought herself to wish to believe it.
She had within her heart no desire for open rebellion against domestic authority. The world
was a dangerous, bad world, in which men were dust and women something lower than dust. She
would tell herself so very often, and strive to believe herself when she did so. But, for all
this, there was a yearning for something beyond her present life, for something that should
be of the world, worldly. When she heard profane music she would long to dance. When she heard
the girls laughing in the public gardens she would long to stay and laugh with them. Pretty
ribbons and bright-coloured silks were a snare to her. When she could shake out her curly locks
in the retirement of her own little chamber, she liked to feel them and to know that they were
pretty.

But these were the wiles with which the devil catches the souls of women, and there were times
when she believed that the devil was making an especial struggle to possess himself of her.
There were moments in which she almost thought that the devil would succeed, and that, perhaps,
it was but of little use for her to carry on any longer the futile contest. Would it not be
pleasant to give up the contest, and to laugh and talk and shout and be merry, to dance, and
wear bright colours, and be gay in company with young men, as did the other girls around her?
As for those other girls, their elder friends did not seem on their account to be specially
in dread of Satan. There was Fanny Heisse who lived close to them, who had been Linda's friend
when they went to school together. Fanny did just as she pleased, was always talking with young
men, wore the brightest ribbons that the shops produced, was always dancing, seemed to be bound
by no strict rules on life; and yet everybody spoke well of Fanny Heisse, and now Fanny was
to be married to a young lawyer from Augsburg. Could it be the fact that the devil had made
sure of Fanny Heisse? Linda had been very anxious to ask her aunt a question on that subject,
but had been afraid. Whenever she attempted to discuss any point of theology with her aunt,
such attempts always ended in renewed assurances of the devil's greediness, and in some harder,
more crushing rule by which the devil's greed might be outwitted.

Then there came a time of terrible peril, and poor Linda was in greater doubt than ever. Fanny
Heisse, who was to be married to the Augsburg lawyer, had long been accustomed to talk to young
men, to one young man after another, so that young men had come to be almost nothing to her.
She had selected one as her husband because it had been suggested to her that she had better
settle herself in life; and this special one was well-to-do, and good-looking, and pleasant-mannered,
and good-tempered. The whole thing with Fanny Heisse had seemed to go as though flirting, love,
and marriage all came naturally, without danger, without care, and without disappointment.
But a young man had now spoken to her, to Linda,--had spoken to her words that she did not
dare to repeat to any one,--had spoken to her twice, thrice, and she had not rebuked him. She
had not, at least, rebuked him with that withering scorn which the circumstances had surely
required, and which would have made him know that she regarded him as one sent purposely from
the Evil One to tempt her. Now again had come upon her some terrible half-formed idea that
it would be well to give up the battle and let the Evil One make free with his prey. But, in
truth, her heart within her had so palpitated with emotion when these words had been spoken
and been repeated, that she had lacked the strength to carry on the battle properly. How send
a daring young man from you with withering scorn, when there lacks power to raise the eyes,
to open or to close the lips, to think even at the moment whether such scorn is deserved, or
something very different from scorn?

The young man had not been seen by Linda's eyes for nearly a month, when Peter Steinmarc and
Madam Staubach settled between them that the ice should be broken. On the following morning
aunt Charlotte prepared herself for the communication to be made, and, when she came in from
her market purchases, went at once to her task. Linda was found by her aunt in their lodger's
sitting-room, busy with brooms and brushes, while Tetchen on her knees was dry-rubbing the
polished board round the broad margin of the room. "Linda," said Madame Staubach, "I have that
which I wish to say to you; would you come with me for a while?" Then Linda followed her aunt
to Madame Staubach's own chamber, and as she went there came over her a guilty fear. Could
it be that her aunt had heard of the words which the young man had spoken to her?

"Linda," said Madame Staubach, "sit down,--there, in my chair. I have a proposition to make
to you of much importance,--of very great importance. May the Lord grant that the thing that
I do shall be right in His sight!"

"To make to me, aunt?" said Linda, now quite astray as to her aunt's intention. She was sure,
at least, that there was no danger about the young man. Had it been her aunt's purpose to rebuke
her for aught that she had done, her aunt's manner and look would have been very different,--would
have been hard, severe, and full of denunciation. As it was, Madame Staubach almost hesitated
in her words, and certainly had assumed much less than her accustomed austerity.

"I hope, Linda, that you know that I love you."

"I am sure that you love me, aunt Charlotte. But why do you ask me?"

"If there be any one in this world that I do love, it is you, my child. Who else is there left
to me? Were it not for you, the world with all its troubles would be nothing to me, and I could
prepare myself to go in peace when He should be pleased to take me."

"But why do you say this now, aunt Charlotte?"

"I will tell you why I say it now. Though I am hardly an old woman yet--"

"Of course you are not an old woman."

"I wish I were older, that I might be nearer to my rest. But you are young, and it is necessary
that your future life should be regarded. Whether I go hence or remain here it will be proper
that some settlement should be made for you." Then Madame Staubach paused, and Linda began
to think that her aunt had on her mind some scheme about the house. When her aunt had spoken
of going hence or remaining here, Linda had not been quite sure whether the goings and remainings
spoken of were wholly spiritual or whether there was any reference to things worldly and temporal.
Could it be that Tetchen was after all right in her surmise? Was it possible that her aunt
was about to be married to Peter Steinmarc? But she said nothing; and after a while her aunt
went on very slowly with her proposition. "Yes, Linda, some settlement for your future life
should be made. You know that the house in which we live is your own."

"It is yours and mine together, aunt."

"No, Linda; the house is your own. And the furniture in it is yours too; so that Herr Steinmarc
is your lodger. It is right that you should understand all this; but I think too well of my
own child to believe that she will ever on that account be disobedient or unruly."

"That will never make a difference."

"No, Linda; I am sure it will not. Providence has been pleased to put me in the place of both
father and mother to you. I will not say that I have done my duty by you--"

"You have, aunt, always," said Linda, taking her aunt's hand and pressing it affectionately.

"But I have found, and I expect to find, a child's obedience. It is good that the young should
obey their elders, and should understand that those in authority over them should know better
than they can do themselves what is good for them." Linda was now altogether astray in her
thoughts and anticipations. Her aunt had very frequently spoken to her in this strain; nay,
a week did not often pass by without such a speech. But then the speeches would come without
the solemn prelude which had been made on this occasion, and would be caused generally by some
act or word or look or movement on the part of Linda of which Madame Staubach had found herself
obliged to express disapprobation. On the present occasion the conversation had been commenced
without any such expression. Her aunt had even deigned to commend the general tenor of her
life. She had dropped the hand as soon as her aunt began to talk of those in authority, and
waited with patience till the gist of the lecture should be revealed to her. "I hope you will
understand this now, Linda. That which I shall propose to you is for your welfare, here and
hereafter, even though it may not at first seem to you to be agreeable."

"What is it, aunt?" said Linda, jumping up quickly from her seat.

"Sit down, my child, and I will tell you." But Linda did not reseat herself at once. Some terrible
fear had come upon her,--some fear of she knew not what,--and she found it to be almost impossible
to remain quiet at her aunt's knee. "Sit down, Linda, when I ask you." Then Linda did sit down;
but she had altogether lost that look of quiet, passive endurance which her face and figure
had borne when she was first asked to listen to her aunt's words. "The time in your life has
come, my dear, when I as your guardian have to think whether it is not well that you should
be--married."

"But I do not want to be married," said Linda, jumping up again.

"My dearest child, it would be better that you should listen to me. Marriage, you know, is
an honourable state."

"Yes, I know, of course. But, aunt Charlotte--"

"Hush, my dear."

"A girl need not be married unless she likes."

"If I were dead, with whom would you live? Who would there be to guard you and guide you?"

"But you are not going to die."

"Linda, that is very wicked."

"And why can I not guide myself?"

"Because you are young, and weak, and foolish. Because it is right that they who are frail,
and timid, and spiritless, should be made subject to those who are strong and able to hold
dominion and to exact obedience." Linda did not at all like being told that she was spiritless.
She thought that she might be able to show spirit enough were it not for the duty that she
owed to her aunt. And as for obedience, though she were willing to obey her aunt, she felt
that her aunt had no right to transfer her privilege in that respect to another. But she said
nothing, and her aunt went on with her proposition.

"Our lodger, Peter Steinmarc, has spoken to me, and he is anxious to make you his wife."

"Peter Steinmarc!"

"Yes, Linda; Peter Steinmarc."

"Old Peter Steinmarc!"

"He is not old. What has his being old to do with it?"

"I will never marry Peter Steinmarc, aunt Charlotte."

Madame Staubach had not expected to meet with immediate and positive obedience. She had thought
it probable that there might be some opposition shown to her plan when it was first brought
forward. Indeed, how could it be otherwise, when marriage was suggested abruptly to such a
girl as Linda Tressel, even though the suggested husband had been an Apollo? What young woman
could have said, "Oh, certainly; whenever you please, aunt Charlotte," to such a proposition?
Feeling this, Madame Staubach would have gone to work by degrees,--would have opened her siege
by gradual trenches, and have approached the citadel by parallels, before she attempted to
take it by storm, had she known anything of the ways and forms of such strategy. But though
she knew that there were such ways and forms of strategy among the ungodly, out in the world
with the worldly, she had practised none such herself, and knew nothing of the mode in which
they should be conducted. On this subject, if on any, her niece owed to her obedience, and
she would claim that obedience as hers of right. Though Linda would at first be startled, she
would probably be not the less willing to obey at last, if she found her guardian stern and
resolute in her demand. "My dear," she said, "you have probably not yet had time to think of
the marriage which I have proposed to you."

"I want no time to think of it."

"Nothing in life should be accepted or rejected without thinking, Linda,--nothing except sin;
and thinking cannot be done without time."

"This would be sin--a great sin!"

"Linda, you are very wicked."

"Of course, I am wicked."

"Herr Steinmarc is a most respectable man. There is no man in all Nuremberg more respected
than Herr Steinmarc." This was doubtless Madame Staubach's opinion of Peter Steinmarc, but
it may be that Madame Staubach was not qualified to express the opinion of the city in general
on that subject. "He holds the office which your father held before him, and for many years
has inhabited the best rooms in your father's house."

"He is welcome to the rooms if he wants them," said Linda. "He is welcome to the whole house
if you choose to give it to him."

"That is nonsense, Linda. Herr Steinmarc wants nothing that is not his of right."

"I am not his of right," said Linda.

"Will you listen to me? You are much mistaken if you think that it is because of your trumpery
house that this honest man wishes to make you his wife." We must suppose that Madame Staubach
suffered some qualm of conscience as she proffered this assurance, and that she repented afterwards
of the sin she committed in making a statement which she could hardly herself have believed
to be exactly true. "He knew your father before you were born, and your mother; and he has
known me for many years. Has he not lived with us ever since you can remember?"

"Yes," said Linda; "I remember him ever since I was a very little girl,--as long as I can remember
anything,--and he seemed to be as old then as he is now."

"And why should he not be old? Why should you want a husband to be young and foolish and headstrong
as you are yourself;--perhaps some one who would drink and gamble and go about after strange
women?"

"I don't want any man for a husband," said Linda.

"There can be nothing more proper than that Herr Steinmarc should make you his wife. He has
spoken to me and he is willing to undertake the charge."

"The charge!" almost screamed Linda, in terrible disgust.

"He is willing to undertake the charge, I say. We shall then still live together, and may hope
to be able to maintain a God-fearing household, in which there may be as little opening to
the temptations of the world as may be found in any well-ordered house."

"I do not believe that Peter Steinmarc is a God-fearing man."

"Linda, you are very wicked to say so."

"But if he were, it would make no difference."

"Linda!"

"I only know that he loves his money better than anything in the world, and that he never gives
a kreutzer to any one, and that he won't subscribe to the hospital, and he always thinks that
Tetchen takes his wine, though Tetchen never touches a drop."

"When he has a wife she will look after these things."

"I will never look after them," said Linda.

The conversation was brought to an end as soon after this as Madame Staubach was able to close
it. She had done all that she had intended to do, and had done it with as much of good result
as she had expected. She had probably not thought that Linda would be quite so fierce as she
had shown herself; but she had expected tears, and more of despair, and a clearer protestation
of abject misery in the proposed marriage. Linda's mind would now be filled with the idea,
and probably she might by degrees reconcile herself to it, and learn to think that Peter was
not so very old a man. At any rate it would now be for Peter himself to carry on the battle.

Linda, as soon as she was alone, sat down with her hands before her and with her eyes fixed,
gazing on vacancy, in order that she might realise to herself the thing proposed to her. She
had said very little to her aunt of the nature of the misery which such a marriage seemed to
offer to her,--not because her imagination made for her no clear picture on the subject, not
because she did not foresee unutterable wretchedness in such a union. The picture of such wretchedness
had been very palpable to her. She thought that no consideration on earth would induce her
to take that mean-faced old man to her breast as her husband, her lord--as the one being whom
she was to love beyond everybody else in this world. The picture was clear enough, but she
had argued to herself, unconsciously, that any description of that picture to her aunt would
seem to suppose that the consummation of the picture was possible. She preferred therefore
to declare that the thing was impossible,--an affair the completion of which would be quite
out of the question. Instead of assuring her aunt that it would have made her miserable to
have to look after Peter Steinmarc's wine, she at once protested that she never would take
upon herself that duty. "I am not his of right," she had said; and as she said it, she resolved
that she would adhere to that protest. But when she was alone she remembered her aunt's demand,
her own submissiveness, her old habits of obedience, and above all she remembered the fear
that would come over her that she was giving herself to the devil in casting from her her obedience
on such a subject, and then she became very wretched. She told herself that sooner or later
her aunt would conquer her, that sooner or later that mean-faced old man, with his snuffy fingers,
and his few straggling hairs brushed over his bald pate, with his big shoes spreading here
and there because of his corns, and his ugly, loose, square, snuffy coat, and his old hat which
he had worn so long that she never liked to touch it, would become her husband, and that it
would be her duty to look after his wine, and his old shoes, and his old hat, and to have her
own little possessions doled out to her by his penuriousness. Though she continued to swear
to herself that heaven and earth together should never make her become Herr Steinmarc's wife,
yet at the same time she continued to bemoan the certainty of her coming fate. If they were
both against her--both, with the Lord on their sides--how could she stand against them with
nothing to aid her,--nothing, but the devil, and a few words spoken to her by one whom hitherto
she had never dared to answer?

The house in which Linda and Madame Staubach lived, of which the three gables faced towards
the river, and which came so close upon the stream that there was but a margin six feet broad
between the wall and the edge of the water, was approached by a narrow street or passage, which
reached as far as the end of the house, where there was a small gravelled court or open place,
perhaps thirty feet square. After I used
to go to the cabinet with Mendoza, who followed him, seized by the fear and respect. Not long
afterwards they heard the voice of the general cascade dictating an order or 'throwing a chillería,
" as stated in the wording.

- Wow, Mendoza, do not call me VV. Serrano enlighten many times! I already have VV. illustration
Tell up to the neck .-- V. the manager of the theaters is a paving stone, yesterday given
a stick Chamorro's drama, which is co-religionist, and a few days ago he put them in the clouds
a very bad little piece of a nephew of González Bravo ... Ah! and be careful with me Ferni:
you know V. who has sung in my house .-- Let's see, Mendoza, how consent V. that that Mr. Darwin
said in the Variety section that man descended from apes? (Pause as Mendoza replied, which is
not heard.) Translated, eh?

Well, do not translate these clappers ... Good monkey is the translator!

The call is heard in this way, or pestle, or paving, it was the other way and down even pretending
to be completely astounded head at work. But some of the companions coughed maliciously and others
laughed. A Mendoza in these cases could be heard the metal voice and so from the room, it seemed
that the general was talking to himself. But this as we have said, happened very few times,
usually the director was going to take orders former home of two to three times each day. The
General showed in the newspaper's management the same healthy energy that always characterized
him in the barracks. But there, as in these, his spirit essentially stopped much more analytical
in the details in the set. A bad patch attached, a belt misplaced, exasperated and inflamed
anger in the chest Torrelodones hero (and called him every other day Independence and other
not.) Also a news luncheon, an announcement had twisted his noble spirit a strange embarrassment
that was powerful to suppress. Mendoza was careful not to disturb often. The articles, not getting
loose excite the interest of the courageous leader, and left the writing quite freely in this
area. By contrast, nothing in the world consent to vary the title of a section without being asked.
Sometimes, spontaneous and totally free inspiration, he came to change. One day, after coming from
your household received Mendoza a leaflet ordering, in terms that did not lead to distorted
interpretations the section titled General News newspaper carry his name, thereafter, the Universal
News. Despite the undeniable usefulness of this reform, as the adjective universal is certainly
more comprehensive than general, some insisted on holding editor that subscribers, not only
did not appreciate, but even she would take over. The only subject off limits for reporters was
the English colonial system, and all that resulting therefrom, the general was reserved entirely
this area, which was undoubtedly peritísimo, as he had played twice in India to the Philippines.
His point of view, consistent with the energy of his character, was that to colonize a country,
it was indispensable remove the Indians, without removal, settlement impossible. This was the beginning
he held a series of articles written "with more bravery than grammar," to say a ministerial
colleague. By the way, Rios insisted that Mendoza was to challenge the director; but could not
succeed.

The only thing I read with pleasure in the newspaper, I must say at the risk of wound susceptibility fine
of some writers, was the political loose section, which was in charge of Miguel, or Riverita,
as there was called. However, the general was infinitely more importance to articles. The funds
were in charge of an old silent taciturn widower with seven daughters fed and dressed with
fifty dollars monthly that produced these funds to his father. The wording was the first and the
last out; Articles, full of wisdom, reason, prudence, always gave back issues without going
into them, the general found it more consistent with the rules of the strategy, take over the case
that "discovering the body." They also had the incalculable advantage that began and ended the
same way consistently, with very slight variations.

Here is the model of his style:

"By studying the important issues
specifically relating to the promotion of general interests, the basis
of individual and collective prosperity, can not be ignored, in any
way, how much influence in its resolution a systematic and continuous
As far as public administration, so powerful to remove the many obstacles
that hamper the progress of a country prosperous.

Not that we ignore that in their respective field specifying the smart contest all the other
entities able to discover the sources of wealth, which are all factors of social welfare provided
that the employee work for the intended purpose, meets the requirements of a reason illustrated
by practical lessons, etc., etc. "

When they came to tell Miguel that General said that the writings of Ramos (so called the oldest
of the funds), had more weight than his, exclaimed:

- Sure, why can not digest more than the ostrich!

XI

Arrived in July.

The General Bembo avoid the heat went to Biarritz. Miguel not followed immediately because
I had to take his stepmother and sister to Santander, but agreed with her to spend the month of
August flights where D. Paul had taken a fancy once to build a magnificent country house.
In this retreat had smooth and quiet mimic the general's delightful eclogue of Paul and Virginia,
and a bit too, if possible outside, wild and free love Chactas and Atala.

Installed after he left his family and knew that Lucia was already in Pasajes, moved At this
point in a steamer. Santander left at dawn: the clear sky, as few sometimes tends to be on
that coast, the blue sea and curly. Running a fresh wind and light, to expand the chest and
slapped cheeks. Raised the bridge with the captain, who laughed to see him staggering and hard
to pick the railing, and from there watched the show sublime sun rise in the sea. He got up as usual,
magnificent, serene, showing no fear the tourist, he described in his letters to newspapers, not
least the pretentious poets, who bring and take you and sometimes send you stop to listen its
nonsense. The captain was walking with his hands in his pockets, without making damn case (the sun,
not Michael), and when he, unable to contain, let go some exclamation enthusiasm, he stopped
and asked politely:

- Would you like to V. the sun?

- Very much!

The sailor smiled with an air of compassion, as if to say: What would
the world if tastes were equal!

And aloud he answered:

- Not bad, no, not bad in the sun ...

After thus compromise with the foibles of others, undertook her walk again. And to give further
clearer signs of his benevolence, he stopped again, smiling.

- Now
for summer travel are happy, right?

No ... not cold Then they will see the coast: the sea is like a silk ... When lifting the pilot,
we will ask you to touch guitar ... V.'ll see, you'll see how well
the drive!

But in the midst of his speech he stopped, looking at the bow, frowned, bent on the rail, always with
his hands in his pockets, and shouted:

- Babor!

- Babor - answer
the boat from below, like an echo.

Continued the captain for a while frowning and looking at the bow, to bow out again and said:

-
A road.

- Via - replied the helmsman.

Then again stretched the springs that had made his dark face, and again to draw a smile on his lips
candid and friendly.

- It's nice to hear him play the Seville, you will see.

When the afternoon was spent in front of San Sebastian. Miguel was trying to see mouth of the bay
of Pasajes, without success. The captain was in despair because they appeared the pilot boat.
At last he distinguished himself as a black dot there among the waves came alongside the vessel,
a man in a beret climbed quickly to the draft, and then the bridge, and said with an accent Vizcaino

-
Afternoon, D. Isidoro and the company.

They reached the mouth, which was very narrow.

The practical, without losing sight of the bow of the steam spoke cheerfully of the pilgrimage
he had just left there on the top of the village. Entered by a narrow river, between two high
mountains, and soon lead to the bay, which in fact, did not deserve such a name: it was a sort
of lake, not very large, surrounded by all sides by high mountains and the sea where communication
went unnoticed, not to look far. When they entered the twilight era. In the bay, the effect of abrupt
cord surrounds it, was already low light, the sun had long had sunk behind the mountains, and in
the sky could be seen beyond the semicircle of the moon, thin, blue
and spiky, the Hesperus winking at his side before hiding.

The village is spread across both of sides attached to the mountain, and their houses were washed
by the sea, to which residents could exit the stone stairs. Many had also a small terrace or garden
where snacking or chatted quietly taking the air, or danced and laughed, depending on the mood and
occasion. Miguel learned from the pilot that the people was divided into two parishes, the right
part is called San Pedro, left San Juan. Front, much further away, was a group of newly built
houses and stores, known of flights width or width only.

The steamer anchored in the middle of the bay until the next day. Miguel was surprised and
love of that silent and melancholy retreat into the shadows took appearances twilight even more sad
and fantastic. The imagination began to speak a language soft and mysterious. Looked at the houses
where light is still not perceived at all, and asked: - Are the living
there, away from noise, enclosed by the natural wall, will be happier
than those who live thunderous agitation in court?

Who knows! Fixed on a young couple leaning the railing of a roof and could not help envying.
Back in Madrid do not love, of sure, like this: we are requested
by many wishes at once, that the heart can not collected and live
in happy contemplation of being that is worshiped.

At that time he did not remember for any of Lucia.

His spirit, struck first by the sublime presence of the ocean, and
now for the sweet poetry of that lake, taking off with the tedium
of twisted and artificial life I had just left, its lie and sinful
pleasures, and joined with love the feeling of this quiet little town
that he retired and picturesque inspired.

Came to him from his meditation master, who invited him to have a glass of gin Camera: Miguel said he
wanted to jump ashore and find lodging.

- Lose V. care, now going to be Ursula.

- Who is Ursula?

- The juggler: she was taken ashore and the search.

And indeed, he soon came to the vapor side of a boat, and within it a young who handled the oars with
unusual skill. In Tickets, the service of the skiffs that carry people from one point to another
of the bay is in charge of women.

- Afternoon, D. Isidoro and the company.

- That I give this gentleman, Ursula. Beware what you do with it.

(Here the captain said a great outrage, that can not be repeated.)

Ursula smiled shocked.

- There he, D. Isidoro, let him!

Jumped in the boat our young, and was driven rapidly to the shore.

Ursula was a shepherdess chunky, poorly dressed and with colors so
vivid in his face, which surprised Miguel: later found that heavy
drinking liquor.

He tied the boat and led to his passenger by a rough stone stairs to the street. This was quite
narrow and crooked, as Sunday, I kept having some animation in it, the neighbors were sitting
outside talking, or playing the lottery shops. Feeling the steps of the stranger, rose face and
examined him with curiosity, which trumpeted the numbers also suspended its singing for a
moment to look at him. In the taverns, which were not few, you could hear a lot of uproar.
It was almost night.

Ursula was through that guides the long and winding road, which was the only one of the parish
of San Pedro, a small square in the center of a group dancing girls.

The boatman stopped in front of an old house with a shield on the
door and he leaned against the window of the shop where he had tobacconist.

He said a few words in Basque, and a woman who had leaned in to see
Michael.

- No problem - replied .-- Castilian coming for a long time
that gentleman?

- I can not say to you, Mr - said that raw .-- Probably
the whole month.

- I can offer to V. the room for now, but if a family
comes, hopefully within few days, will V. to move to the upstairs
room, which is smaller.

- I do not care: having a decent room, good
enough for me.

The woman with whom he spoke was about forty years old, was tall, stout, and although quite dejection,
his face still had signs of superior beauty. Dressed a black merino dress modest, as most women
who pass through the villages boys. Arose at this, went to the site and invited the youth to come
up with it. Miguel, Before doing so, he dismissed the boatmen, charging that he sent the baggage.
The room where he entered was spacious, the furniture, though not wealthy, they seemed decent.

-
This is your room, now - said Dona Rosalia (such was the hostess) .-- This is the bedroom.
Want V. bring you light?

- Until you come I do not need luggage.

- Well, excuse me V., I have abandoned the tobacconist.

And the midwife left the room leaving him alone. After he had given some laps enterádose it and
their willingness to the dim light that was there, lit a cigar, and
went out the corridor and fell face down on the iron railing, contemplating,
with eyes distracted, the square dance.

The youth group danced with increasing enthusiasm and sang louder
and louder.

Most of them were cool and strong but beautiful but some deserve the name of such. The movements
were alive, loose, funny: the most liked Miguel was a paste consisting
of arms and turning the body to dance, jump to the letter.

Around them were many onlookers, men and women.

Group noted that they said a girl and came to sit alone under corridor
where he was, glanced at it, but can not see her face, environment
eyes again to dance.

After a while a voice vaguely perceived behind it:

- Listen - said
the voice.

But do not imagine their way to him, continued in a comfortable position.

-
Listen - repeated the voice a little stronger.

- Hey, who's going?
- Then said, turning.

In the shadows of the room could see the figure of the girl I was before sitting under corridor.
Could have fifteen years of age, and so failed to see, had a face
round and brown, quite insignificant, and spent the braid hair yet.

-
My aunt says that if you want V. dinner - the girl said, her voice
trembling.

- If it were possible ... I have some appetite .-- And
as I wished to speak, he added, smiling kindness:

- Do not dance
V. with the other girls? I've seen V. very alone down there in the
corridor.

- Never dance - all confusing the girl replied, as if any
serious misconduct against him.

- Do not know V?

- Yes, sir, I know,
but ...

- Come on, do not like.

- Before you loved me, now, not
so much.

All this was said increasingly shortened, without dropping
from the lips an innocent smile and humble, that pleased Michael.
And he had changed his ordinary woollen shirt for white linen, and had taken out his new brown
frock-coat which he always wore on those high days in Nuremberg on which the magistrates appeared
with their civic collars. But, perhaps, the effect which Linda noted most keenly was the debonair
fashion in which the straggling hairs had been disposed over the bald pate. For a moment or
two a stranger might almost have believed that the pate was not bald.

"My dear young friend," began the town-clerk, "your aunt has, I think, spoken to you of my
wishes." Linda muttered something, she knew not what. But though her words were not intelligible,
her looks were so, and were not of a kind to have been naturally conducive to much hope in
the bosom of Herr Steinmarc. "Of course, I can understand, Linda, how much this must have taken
you by surprise at first. But that surprise will wear off, and I trust that you may gradually
come to regard me as your future husband without--without--without anything like fear, you
know, or feelings of that kind." Still she did not speak. "If you become my wife, Linda, I
will do my best to make you always happy."

"I shall never become your wife, never--never--never."

"Do not speak so decidedly as that, Linda."

"I must speak decidedly. I do speak decidedly. I can't speak any other way. You know very well,
Herr Steinmarc, that you oughtn't to ask me. It is very wrong of you, and very wicked."

"Why is it wrong, Linda? Why is it wicked?"

"If you want to get married, you should marry some one as old as yourself."

"No, Linda, that is not so. It is always thought becoming that the man should be older than
the wife."

"But you are three times as old as I am, and that is not becoming." This was cruel on Linda's
part, and her words also were untrue. Linda would be twenty-one at her next birthday, whereas
Herr Steinmarc had not yet reached his fifty-second birthday.

Herr Steinmarc was a man who had a temper of his own, and who was a little touchy on the score
of age. Linda knew that he was touchy on the score of age, and had exaggerated her statement
with the view of causing pain. It was probably some appreciation of this fact which caused
Herr Steinmarc to continue his solicitations with more of authority in his voice than he had
hitherto used. "I am not three times as old as you, Linda; but, whatever may be my age, your
aunt, who has the charge of you, thinks that the marriage is a fitting one. You should remember
that you cannot fly in her face without committing a great sin. I offer to you an honest household
and a respectable position. As Madame Staubach thinks that you should accept them, you must
know that you are wrong to answer me with scorn and ribaldry."

"I have not answered you with ribaldry. It is not ribaldry to say that you are an old man."

"You have answered me with scorn."

"I do scorn you, Herr Steinmarc, when you come to me pretending to make love like a young man,
with your Sunday clothes on, and your hair brushed smooth, and your new shoes. I do scorn you.
And you may go and tell my aunt that I say so, if you like. And as for being an old man, you
are an old man. Old men are very well in their way, I daresay; but they shouldn't go about
making love to young women."

Herr Steinmarc had not hoped to succeed on this his first personal venture; but he certainly
had not expected to be received after the fashion which Linda had adopted towards him. He had,
doubtless, looked very often into Linda's face, and had listened very often to the tone of
her voice; but he had not understood what her face expressed, nor had he known what compass
that voice would reach. Had he been a wise man,--a man wise as to his own future comfort,--he
would have abandoned his present attempt after the lessons which he was now learning. But,
as has before been said, he had a temper, and he was now angry with Linda. He was roused, and
was disposed to make her know that, old as he was, and bald, and forced to wear awkward shoes,
and to stump along heavily, still he could force her to become his wife and to minister to
his wants. He understood it all. He knew what were his own deficiencies, and was as wide awake
as was Linda herself to the natural desires of a young girl. Madame Staubach was, perhaps,
equally awake, but she connected these desires directly with the devil. Because it was natural
that a young woman should love a young man, therefore, according to the religious theory of
Madame Staubach, it was well that a young woman should marry an old man, so that she might
then be crushed and made malleable, and susceptible of that teaching which tells us that all
suffering in this world is good for us. Now Peter Steinmarc was by no means alive to the truth
of such lessons as these. Religion was all very well. It was an outward sign of a respectable
life,--of a life in which men are trusted and receive comfortable wages,--and, beyond that,
was an innocent occupation for enthusiastic women. But he had no idea that any human being
was bound to undergo crushing in this world for his soul's sake. Had he not wished to marry
Linda himself, it might be very well that Linda should marry a young man. But now that Linda
so openly scorned him, had treated him with such plain-spoken contumely, he thought it would
be well that Linda should be crushed. Yes; and he thought also that he might probably find
a means of crushing her.

"I suppose, miss," he said, after pausing for some moments, "that the meaning of this is that
you have got a young lover?"

"I have got no young lover," said Linda; "and if I had, why shouldn't I? What would that be
to you?"

"It would be very much to me, if it be the young man I think. Yes, I understand; you blush
now. Very well. 

Michael had fully penetrated the soul of the child: that's why I presented this as a impasse.
Indeed, Maximina opened more eyes expressing surprise; demanded that the young man I swear,
and once made the oath, a ray of joy illumined his face.

- But how bad are these girls! - Exclaimed, clasping her hands .-- Do not be afraid that God
the punishment?

Miguel has sought to persuade them to not believe anything that's to say about him, thousand
protests made sincere affection, and managed to get home before dissipating the clouds that veiled
his face. Upon arrival, immediately Maximina despojose blanket and went to the kitchen, where our young
followed. It was an hour very busy for the child: dinner host boys and many preparations required:
the maid was responsible only seasoning of the dishes, Dona Rosalia account of the tobacconist. Maximina
lit dining lamp and put the cloth on the table: Miguel's still with his eyes: she lifted occasionally
his and sent a smile to show him the confidence he had in his words and how happy he had done
with them.

Once set the table, returned to kitchen.

- We need to clean the dishes - she said the maid with the bitter
tone he always used.

- Has he scrubbed V. ya?

- If I had not scrubbed,
how he had to clean?

What a start!

- Do not bother, Rufa - said the girl a bit shortened.

And taking a towel, sat down calmly to dry the dishes. Miguel sat near her.

- I will tell VV. a story - said that taking another cloth for drying dishes and putting Traveling
.-- also a friend of mine from China, many years ago, told me he
had come evening at a village called Cerdópolis.

As he was inside and was not surprised the name it had, not only
pigs were everywhere, in gardens, streets and even inside houses,
in short, could not take a step without bumping into any of these
animaluchos.

- What smell would be there, my mother! - Maxi said.

-
Atrocious!

I said you could not breathe. It happened that he was taken to the home of one of leaders of
the people, but most of the houses, even of the rich, had no more rooms to the kitchen and bedrooms.
The owner introduced him to their daughters, some girls pretty ugly, with eyes bent and feet very
young ... In short, VV. have already seen some Chinese. They seemed friendly, and my friend
was very pleased with the reception they did. It was not so happy with the mother, wife of our Chinese.
It was an old woman who was next onion chopping the fire and is now Rufa.

Maxi looked up the cook and then turned to Michael with an expression between naive and malicious,
suspecting a joke.

- When my friend went to her asking how health was not answered more that hum! even without looking
up. My friend looked surprised her husband and daughters, as saying, What have I done to this lady
to get me this? But the same him that they, rather than ashamed, looked up to heaven in a gesture
of resignation surprised him even more. They went to dinner, and my friend at dinner and after
she tried to win the sympathies, or at least the benevolence of the woman, lavishing directing
much attention and often the word. All to no avail: China's answer with his usual grunt, or
all over, with a monosyllable that revealed his temper. The husband and daughters were happy
to make the gesture of resignation and pain that every was marveling once more to the traveler.
After spending some time on desktop, he went to rest. When morning rose, the family found very
sad and as appalled. Then asked them why they went forward bad.

- The poor mother! "- Said one of the girls.

- What happened?

Are you sick? - Asked.

- There she V.

- Where? - Said looking all around, without seeing
a trace of China.

- There.

- But where?

- That pig has V. ahead.

-
What! - Said my friend, believing that the Chinese had gone mad.

-
Yes, sir, we knew at home this week could not happen.

You, sir, apparently, do not know what happens in this town ...

The
Chinese then explained that in that town had a disease, unfortunately
very common, cerdofalgia named, and that was the transfiguration of
man into a pig.

Hence the vast number of pigs encountered on the streets.

The first symptom of this disease was bad humor: in the first degree, patients could be cured as
the consumptive, and Indeed, where one was attacked, were used to
return to health thousand kinds of parties and rejoicing, in which
the whole family took part.

Some saved, but most passed the second period, called "silence," because they spoke very little,
yet in this degree except one another. But if unfortunately entered the period of the "grunts"
time was lost thing: after some time, came the transfiguration. His wife was and two months he was
in third grade.

My friend was stunned and realized why when grunting housewife gestures were all resignation.

At
the end of his story Miguel, Maxi made superhuman efforts to contain the laughter that escaped
her mouth, seeing what had piqued that Rufa.

At that time Dona Rosalia came another lady of the same trace.

Miguel left to see them hastily and the dish cloth in her hands, lest they should see him busy
task as unmanly.

After changing a few words, Maxi, without realizing what he did, he handed two plates saying

- No longer are we more than seven.

But the young man, embarrassed and very angry, they are rejected.

- Let V. .. V. Let that.

The girl blushed and cried faintly confused:

- As in the past helped
me!

...

XV

"My dear sister: - Michael wrote Julia - I wonder why I stay so
long in this little town, and suppose, unwisely, I'll spend most of
it in San Sebastian.

Also do some reluctance that I dislike, because they are not good in the mouth or pen from a child
as innocent as you are and hope that you remain. You're wrong on all your hypothesis. Tickets
remain in (and you can start to laugh) because I'm in love my landlady's niece. It's a girl (still
laughing) that bypasses pretty nor graceful, nor has talent, and a good education. I love what
I do not know, perhaps the soul, but not sure. What I can say is that no woman (except you)
as I think so cute, so friendly and so well educated. Has not yet reached ten and six years.
If you saw what is good and humble! Is so convinced of his insignificance, I have done as
Jesus Christ; wanting to be the last, high at first. Has spent two years in a convent Vergara and
when I arrived, I was determined to become a nun: now we went to walk the Monji. This not mean
that there was a good religious Maximina, as it is called in any state and condition of life would
be good, because that God made. I spend my times as listening to a fool, when he tells his
life as a schoolgirl: the nonadas and childishness of companions, who tells me with great warmth,
delight me just as the novel more interesting: I already know all the sisters of the school
as if they had given birth, is a sister St. Onofre, eighteen years old, beautiful, educated,
but very short temper, in the convent all the world feared more than the superior, just imagine
that a girl, because expressed disgust at glass of another, made to eat the leftovers of all the
other on a plate! There is another called Mary Relief of the same age as Maxi, very sweet,
very shy, when girls entangled in class, not having the courage to reñirlas or punish, she
started to mourn. But love my girl was the sister San Sulpicio, an Andalusian beautiful, graceful
and attractive; four girls were madly in love with her, but which bore the palm and reached to
be her favorite after some time, was Maximina, but the sister, who was a apparently little flirty,
sometimes took pleasure in showing great coolness mortify or adopting a continent with her severe,
until seeing his face saddened, she started laughed and gently tugged his ear, calling it silly.
One day he came up to order move to this sister to another convent, secretly left without
saying goodbye. Who Maxi Tells? wondered all schoolgirls. Finally a more talkative and less
well intentioned than the others, it reported sharply, my daughter received a strong blow to
the heart, but tried to hold back, because he was ashamed to burst into tears in front of
her classmates: this effort on itself cost him dearly, because after a while she felt sick and
had to unbutton dress hastily, lest they drown.

Hearing the story of these children is passed scenes of your brother deliciously goofy time, and
has no desire to return to Madrid. Would you believe, dear sister, I find more wisdom in the
words of Maximina courses in colonial systems that we at home gives the Earl of Rivers? Certainly, I'm
lost. Why has my uncle Bernard to say that nothing in life will be
helpful.

Many memories of Mom. Health Staff. A hug that you almost smother your brother

MIGUEL. "

Three days after Julia's reply, which read:

"My dearest brother:
If for my taste would not write you today because I have to give bad
news, but send Mom ... y. .. cartridge in the barrel, fit or not fit.

The news is that we go to Madrid next week, was on Wednesday or Thursday.

For therefore, you know you should get under way soon. Many feel that tear happiness you feel
and say that I do not think. All life has been a crook beach and do not lease the Tizonazo you
carry in the other world. That poor girl will be well unfortunate if you trust your little
words of honey, will soon go to the cemetery of the victims, as Teresa, Paquita, etc., etc.
I am ashamed to be your sister, great rascal!

News as we know that Uncle Manolo marries the widow of yore. It was time. The same one or two
need to get new teeth, because they are something Durito.

There you sending a letter by the letter I think of him, I suppose it is giving part of the
wedding.

The body of Staff sends me give you memories. Mom as well. I am not happy but a strong bite in
his ear: you know I am a specialist in that field. Warns when you exit.

JULIA. "

Within this came another letter from D. Manuel Rivera news of his impending marriage. The seductive
former manifested itself in her contrite and eager to reform in terms morals and customs,
and announced in concrete terms that he was determined to undergo general laws that govern
the destiny of humanity and routed to the infinite spoke of the urgent need felt by the man
to have a companion "to help to bear the burden of life, "the sweet and ineffable joys of the
home, the mutual sacrifices.

Finally, he called the Supreme Being and begged his help deign bless "his poor hut."

Miguel, rather than relent as it should be a good laugh reading it: but the moment was sad and
crestfallen to remember that flights should leave within a few days. The truth was that I was
going well and not turn back anything flattering to the bustling life of the court. Moreover,
what feeling so alive experience the poor Maximina! As the general to-day and had made irrevocable
intention to break with it, if While far from being expected to perform,
not to suit him do it in an interview do not listen to their complaints
romantic quail.

In the melancholic and reflective expression on his face Maximina guessed that something sad was
happening.

Then tried to be more cheerful and talkative than usual, in order
to dispel their bad mood: vaguely guessed that rejection would fall
on her, but to no avail, Michael contrary to his custom, responded
to their request seriously.

- What you got? - He said at last timidly
.-- Are you mad at me?

- Why should he be? - Answered, smiling sadly
.-- remorse for something you conscience?

- I do not ... but ...

Michael
was silent a moment, the eyes were perched Maximina tellers with longing
for him.

- I have to give bad news - he said at his best voice softening.

The

child was extremely pale, but not his lips.

- I wrote my sister to go to meet with her mom and Santander, and accompany Madrid.

Maxi went silent, bending his head on his chest.

Then it was our Young watch with some trepidation.

- Do not be the last time we meet, beautiful - affectionately said
.....-- The same will follow wanting in Madrid, and the first chance
I got this, I will come to you a visit.

The girl looked up at him struggling to smile.

- Now that I'm about to leave you - continued the young - is when
I see how has entered my heart ... It seems incredible that in so
little time has come to love you in such an endearing ... Are you
the same thing happens to you?

Do I still want to when you stop me?

Maximina moved several times his head in the affirmative.

Moved by that silence, which showed better than any words that his soul was, the young man took
her hand and led gently on the lips for the first time they met, she did not resistance whatsoever.
More and more overcome with emotion, Michael let his soul overflowing; expressed with lively
and passionate language he loved her and how happy they would one day be joining her; The promised
not to forget a single moment, write often and come to see as he could.

The girl put her hand to her forehead and said in an agitated voice:

-
The head is leaving me in pain ...

At that time Mrs. Rosalie entered
the tobacconist.

- Poor boy - he said .-- Must Miguel V. lie a little
to see if it happens .....

- What, you have a headache? - Asked Aunt
.-- The old song ..... Anda seen to lie until lunchtime, and I'll
take the water sedative.

Maxi went to his room and Dona Rosalia was discoursing with Michael,
who just listened.

In the afternoon the girl was brought down to the tobacconist, his
face was a bit broken.

When they were alone, she said shyly

- Do you want a thing I will give you?

- You bet! Because you give me will be my sacred.

Maximina pulled out a silver crucifix hanging from a cord and handed it flushed saying

- This gave me the crucifix, Saint-Sulpice sister on her birthday: I will bring it hung the
breast for three years without ever removing ...

Miguel snatched
it with joy.

- Just going to ask me to hang a medal around his neck.

I'm glad that you've anticipated!

I promise not to leave him day or night ... But I'll beg a favor ... you hang it myself.

Maximina hesitated, finally took back the crucifix, Miguel lowered
his head and Christ was hung on the outside of the vest.

- Today
- he said with sly smile - is necessary to hide it under his shirt.

-
No, that you do it.

The two days that followed this scene elapsed soft and melancholy.

The lovers were much time together, but spoke little.

Maximina efforts to be made visible serene. Miguel, guessing these efforts, I felt your love and
compassion grow.

Took passage on a steamer that was to leave in the afternoon. Maximina morning that day manifested almost
happy. However, being in conversation with him in the room, at least it seemed indicate the
expression on his face, began to sob loudly. Michael stroked and comforted in the best terms
he could.

After they arranged their luggage, the young man went about saying goodbye to the friends during
his stay he had won, and next time to leave and having ear ringing steam whistle, came home
in order to leave the status quo. For more than sought by could not find it everywhere: no
one knew where he had gone, Mrs. Rosalie said that would have gone to church. It is predictable
that this upset Michael, who after sending baggage, went with a heavy heart towards the dock,
but before he came to a around the church. As time hurried, ran to suffocate, he saw no trace of
Maximina around the temple area. He left with his head down and went to steam, which was terribly
beeping awaiting him. When he jumped on board, the captain told rudely fifteen minutes ago who stood
by him, did not cause any effect rebuke. He climbed the bridge, at the time starting the ship,
saw in the balcony of the house of D. Valentine's figure girls. He put his hand hastily to
the captain twin hanging from the railing, and could see his girlfriend crying with a tissue
in hand waving. He took out his pocket and said with emotion. The afternoon was quiet, cloudy sky,
the waters of the small green bay time mirrored confusedly still and the smoke left in the steam
wake. Some other human figures appearing on the balconies and rooftops to hear extended and
furious snoring machine.

While the boat did not leave the narrow mouth of the bay, Miguel did not take her twins the eyes,
directing them to the balcony where Maximina was sad. When a rock is the went down, dropped
his hands in pain: then wiped her cheeks, which were wet.

XVI

Her heart was so full of love, admiration and enthusiasm, which was needed Julita to suffer every
day, for some time, the descriptions that he was pleased to goodness, simplicity and innocence
of the girl's tickets.

Women do not dislike this kind of confidence: So, far outrun, provocations reported with delight
all details more or less childish of those idyllic love, so in keeping
with their age and sex.

Miguel refused to show him the portrait. He feared that he did not
like.

After many requests, and announcing hard "physically worth little," took him out of a portfolio
where he wore.

- Well, there's nothing ugly! - Julita said .-- On the contrary, is a very nice face ...

A Michael is enlarged heart, and drew a smile on his lips Bl.

- Do
you know who looks a little?

... A Clarita Mazón ...

Mazon Clarita was a very nice young man.

However, Michael is not compromised with the resemblance and even angry.

- But do love you, Michael! - Julita said grinning .-- I like that ... It was time that the vane
left permanently for a moment ... You know that if I were in the the skin of that girl you had
to pay all together?

- I believe - said the young man laughed.

- Do not rest on our laurels, rogue, because as soon as I can understand her, she I have to advise.

-
It will not if.

- Who knows? I will show you who you are with the face of an angel of the altarpiece.

From Santander, Miguel telegraphed Tickets, giving news of his arrival. So I jumped out of train
in Madrid, put another telegram and wrote the same day. Maxi's reply took six to arrive. The impatience
that our young said in these days did laugh his sister. Contrary to custom, waited at home
the postman, and even watching him behind the glass of the balcony and was going to open the door
himself.

The letter, which was after all, came in a small envelope, written in beautiful English hand, the
letter that was taught in the convent of Vergara and their content was not long or expressive but
breathing modesty and candor: llamábale in the beginning "appreciable Miguel" and dismissed as
"servant," which made him laugh. In the reply gave him plenty of rattle with that "Servant,"
and the girl in the following letters, changed his farewell: the beginning or the "appreciable," and
it took more work to change it and at last he ventured to call "Dear
Michael."

All the letters she read it to her sister.

Julia began to feel lively sympathy towards that girl even younger
than her.

One day I gave a print of his prayer book, to be expelled from his
party.

Maximina, to acknowledge receipt, there was so moved by this gift,
which Julia could not resist the desire to put a postscript in the
letter from his brother, giving loving expressions.

The girl answered with other flights; were changed after pictures, and finally, after two months,
and were written directly.

By this time the son of Brigadier had cut all its relations with the general's Bembo. Many efforts
that break calligraphic cost: the complaints of the new Ariane came
daily in the mail scattered in five or six sheets of fine print: it
was necessary answer them: Theseus finally got tired and kept philosophically
in his pocket.

Entered and winter, Ariadna returned to Madrid, and not spent fifteen
days without the trumpet hawking scandal affair with the secretary
of the French Embassy.

Miguel does not wondered nothing this event.

One day Julia told him point blank:

- When do you plan to get married,
Miguel?

Blushed, and answered hesitantly and confusing:

- Oh, the marriage!

... You have to think calmly .... It is a very serious business.

And suddenly cut the conversation, talking about something else. Julia was sad and pensive. Asked
this question because he had observed that his brother often both letters a Passages like
before. Began to suspect that it was tired, and trembled for the poor Maximina. Do not give up,
however. After a few days he took in his room by the ear, and said, half joking, half in earnest:

-
Do not loose if you do not tell me now if you think or not to marry.

- But, girl, you thought you or you come with that? - Said the young man, laughing.

- I have interest in Maxi, because he is my friend.

- If you do not know!

- Never mind, I want it now as if he knew.

- Would like to be the sister-niece of a tobacconist? - Said young
with malice.

- Yes! - Julia said getting serious .-- If it is good,
well-educated, why not?

...

- Do not think that's why I stop - Miguel said, turning serious .--
I also thought a lot in recent months about this matter, and finally
I could not confess under married to no good. The Commission has done
twenty-seven independent living I, it is very difficult to accommodate
the order, peace, a series of sacrifices Marriage requires ... And,
frankly, to be a bad married, is not worth a stay single life? ...
On the other hand, if I marry this girl, who is not used treatment
of people or has ever entered in any society, and understand that
I must resign in all my relationships and old friends of my family,
I do not want to step on a room where my wife does not make good role
... In addition, Maximina is too young and too innocent to subdue
a man so perverted like me, and to govern a family ...

This continued
the son of Brigadier in your brain rummaging arguments to hide the
true mobile behavior, they were boredom and vanity, filthy passions
that court life had awakened in his heart again. Julia did not take
his eyes searching for him which concluded by mobs and forced to shut.
After a few moments of silence, it said, shaking his head in pain:

-
Poor Maximina!

And after a long pause, said with energy:

- Well,
look, Miguel, if you must marry her, is a great sin that you are cheating.
 Peter went up into his own room to put away his hat and umbrella, and then, if
ever, would have been the moment for Linda to have told her story. But she did not tell it
then. Her aunt was leaning back in her accustomed chair, with her eyes closed, as was often
her wont, and Linda knew that her thoughts were far away, wandering in another world, of which
she was ever thinking, living in a dream of bliss with singing angels,--but not all happy,
not all sure, because of the danger that must intervene. Linda could not break in, at such
a time as this, with her story of the young man and his wild leap from the boat.

And certainly she would not tell her story before Peter Steinmarc. It should go untold to her
dying day before she would whisper a word of it in his presence. When they sat round the table,
the aunt was very kind in her manner to Linda. She had asked after her headache, as though
nothing doubting the fact of the ailment; and when Linda had said that she had been able to
rise almost as soon as her aunt had left the house, Madame Staubach expressed no displeasure.
When the dinner was over, Peter was allowed to light his pipe, and Madame Staubach either slept
or appeared to sleep. Linda seated herself in the furthest corner of the room, and kept her
eyes fixed upon a book. Peter sat and smoked with his eyes closed, and his great big shoes
stuck out before him. In this way they remained for an hour. Then Peter got up, and expressed
his intention of going out for a stroll in the Nonnen Garten. Now the Nonnen Garten was close
to the house,--to be reached by a bridge across the river, not fifty yards from Jacob Heisse's
door. Would Linda go with him? But Linda declined.

"You had better, my dear," said Madame Staubach, seeming to awake from her sleep. "The air
will do you good."

"Do, Linda," said Peter; and then he intended to be very gracious in what he added. "I will
not say a word to tease you, but just take you out, and bring you back again."

"I am sure, it being the Sabbath, he would say nothing of his hopes to-day," said Madame Staubach.

"Not a word," said Peter, lifting up one hand in token of his positive assurance.

But, even so assured, Linda would not go with him, and the town-clerk went off alone. Now,
again, had come the time in which Linda could tell the tale. It must certainly be told now
or never. Were she to tell it now she could easily explain why she had been silent so long;
but were she not to tell it now, such explanation would ever afterwards be impossible. "Linda,
dear, will you read to me," said her aunt. Then Linda took up the great Bible. "Turn to the
eighth and ninth chapters of Isaiah, my child." Linda did as she was bidden, and read the two
chapters indicated. After that, there was silence for a few minutes, and then the aunt spoke.
"Linda, my child."

"Yes, aunt Charlotte."

"I do not think you would willingly be false to me." Then Linda turned away her face, and was
silent. "It is not that the offence to me would be great, who am, as we all are, a poor weak
misguided creature; but that the sin against the Lord is so great, seeing that He has placed
me here as your guide and protector." Linda made no promise in answer to this, but even then
she did not tell the tale. How could she have told it at such a moment? But the tale must now
go untold for ever!

CHAPTER V

A week passed by, and Linda Tressel heard nothing of Ludovic, and began at last to hope that
that terrible episode of the young man's visit to her might be allowed to be as though it had
never been. A week passed by, during every day of which Linda had feared and had half expected
to hear some question from her aunt which would nearly crush her to the ground. But no such
question had been asked, and, for aught that Linda knew, no one but she and Ludovic were aware
of the wonderful jump that had been made out of the boat on to the island. And during this
week little, almost nothing, was said to her in reference to the courtship of Peter Steinmarc.
Peter himself spoke never a word; and Madame Staubach had merely said, in reference to certain
pipes of tobacco which were smoked by the town-clerk in Madame Staubach's parlour, and which
would heretofore have been smoked in the town-clerk's own room, that it was well that Peter
should learn to make himself at home with them. Linda had said nothing in reply, but had sworn
inwardly that she would never make herself at home with Peter Steinmarc.

In spite of the pipes of tobacco, Linda was beginning to hope that she might even yet escape
from her double peril, and, perhaps, was beginning to have hope even beyond that, when she
was suddenly shaken in her security by words which were spoken to her by Fanny Heisse. "Linda,"
said Fanny, running over to the gate of Madame Staubach's house, very early on one bright summer
morning, "Linda, it is to be to-morrow! And will you not come?"

"No, dear; we never go out here: we are so sad and solemn that we know nothing of gaiety."

"You need not be solemn unless you like it."

"I don't know but what I do like it, Fanny; I have become so used to it that I am as grave
as an owl."

"That comes of having an old lover, Linda."

"I have not got an old lover," said Linda, petulantly.

"You have got a young one, at any rate."

"What do you mean, Fanny?"

"What do I mean? Just what I say. You know very well what I mean. Who was it jumped over the
river that Sunday morning, my dear? I know all about it." Then there came across Linda's face
a look of extreme pain,--a look of anguish; and Fanny Heisse could see that her friend was
greatly moved by what she had said. "You don't suppose that I shall tell any one," she added.

"I should not mind anything being told if all could be told," said Linda.

"But he did come,--did he not?" Linda merely nodded her head. "Yes; I knew that he came when
your aunt was at church, and Tetchen was out, and Herr Steinmarc was out. Is it not a pity
that he should be such a ne'er-do-well?"

"Do you think that I am a ne'er-do-well, Fanny?"

"No indeed; but, Linda, I will tell you what I have always thought about young men. They are
very nice, and all that; and when old croaking hunkses have told me that I should have nothing
to say to them, I have always answered that I meant to have as much to say to them as possible;
but it is like eating good things;--everybody likes eating good things, but one feels ashamed
of doing it in secret."

This was a terrible blow to poor Linda. "But I don't like doing it," she answered. "It wasn't
my fault. I did not bid him come."

"One never does bid them to come; I mean not till one has taken up with a fellow as a lover
outright. Then you bid them, and sometimes they won't come for your bidding."

"I would have given anything in the world to have prevented his doing what he did. I never
mean to speak to him again,--if I can help it."

"Oh, Linda!"

"I suppose you think I expected him, because I stayed at home alone?"

"Well,--I did think that possibly you expected something."

"I would have gone to church with my aunt though my head was splitting had I thought that Herr
Valcarm would have come here while she was away."

"Mind I have not blamed you. It is a great shame to give a girl an old lover like Peter Steinmarc,
and ask her to marry him. I wouldn't have married Peter Steinmarc for all the uncles and all
the aunts in creation; nor yet for father,--though father would never have thought of such
a thing. I think a girl should choose a lover for herself, though how she is to do so if she
is to be kept moping at home always, I cannot tell. If I were treated as you are I think I
should ask somebody to jump over the river to me."

"I have asked nobody. But, Fanny, how did you know it?"

"A little bird saw him."

"But, Fanny, do tell me."

"Max saw him get across the river with his own eyes." Max Bogen was the happy man who on the
morrow was to make Fanny Heisse his wife.

"Heavens and earth!"

"But, Linda, you need not be afraid of Max. Of all men in the world he is the very last to
tell tales."

"Fanny, if ever you whisper a word of this to any one, I will never speak to you again."

"Of course, I shall not whisper it."

"I cannot explain to you all about it,--how it would ruin me. I think I should kill myself
outright if my aunt were to know it; and yet I did nothing wrong. I would not encourage a man
to come to me in that way for all the world; but I could not help his coming. I got myself
into the kitchen; but when I found that he was in the house I thought it would be better to
open the door and speak to him."

"Very much better. I would have slapped his face. A lover should know when to come and when
to stay away."

"I was ashamed to think that I did not dare to speak to him, and so I opened the door. I was
very angry with him."

"But still, perhaps, you like him,--just a little; is not that true, Linda?"

"I do not know; but this I know, I do not want ever to see him again."

"Come, Linda; never is a long time."

"Let it be ever so long, what I say is true."

"The worst of Ludovic is that he is a ne'er-do-well. He spends more money than he earns, and
he is one of those wild spirits who are always making up some plan of politics--who live with
one foot inside the State prison, as it were. I like a lover to be gay, and all that; but it
is not well to have one's young man carried off and locked up by the burgomasters. But, Linda,
do not be unhappy. Be sure that I shall not tell; and as for Max Bogen, his tongue is not his
own. I should like to hear him say a word about such a thing when I tell him to be silent."

Linda believed her friend, but still it was a great trouble to her that any one should know
what Ludovic Valcarm had done on that Sunday morning. As she thought of it all, it seemed to
her to be almost impossible that a secret should remain a secret that was known to three persons,--for
she was sure that Tetchen knew it,--to three persons besides those immediately concerned. She
thought of her aunt's words to her, when Madame Staubach had cautioned her against deceit,
"I do not think that you would willingly be false to me, because the sin against the Lord would
be so great." Linda had understood well how much had been meant by this caution. Her aunt had
groaned over her in spirit once, when she found it to be a fact that Ludovic Valcarm had been
allowed to speak to her,--had been allowed to speak though it were but a dozen words. The dozen
words had been spoken and had not been revealed, and Madame Staubach having heard of this sin,
had groaned in the spirit heavily. How much deeper would be her groans if she should come to
know that Ludovic had been received in her absence, had been received on a Sabbath morning,
when her niece was feigning to be ill! Linda still fancied that her aunt might believe her
if she were to tell her own story, but she was certain that her aunt would never believe her
if the story were to be told by another. In that case there would be nothing for her, Linda,
but perpetual war; and, as she thought, perpetual disgrace. As her aunt would in such circumstances
range her forces on the side of propriety, so must she range hers on the side of impropriety.
It would become necessary that she should surrender herself, as it were, to Satan; that she
should make up her mind for an evil life; that she should cut altogether the cord which bound
her to the rigid practices of her present mode of living. Her aunt had once asked her if she
meant to be the light-of-love of this young man. Linda had well known what her aunt had meant,
and had felt deep offence; but yet she now thought that she could foresee a state of things
in which, though that degradation might yet be impossible, the infamy of such degradation would
belong to her. She did not know how to protect herself from all this, unless she did so by
telling her aunt of the young man's visit.

But were she to do so she must accompany her tale by the strongest assurance that no possible
consideration would induce her to marry Peter Steinmarc. There must then be a compact, as has
before been said, that the name neither of one man nor the other should ever again be mentioned
as that of Linda's future husband. But would her aunt agree to such a compact? Would she not
rather so use the story that would be told to her, as to draw from it additional reasons for
pressing Peter's suit? The odious man still smoked his pipes of tobacco in Madame Staubach's
parlour, gradually learning to make himself at home there. Linda, as she thought of this, became
grave, settled, and almost ferocious in the working of her mind. Anything would be better than
this,--even the degradation to be feared from hard tongues, and from the evil report of virtuous
women. As she pictured to herself Peter Steinmarc with his big feet, and his straggling hairs,
and his old hat, and his constant pipe, almost any lot in life seemed to her to be better than
that. Any lot in death would certainly be better than that. No! If she told her story there
must be a compact. And if her aunt would consent to no compact, then,--then she must give herself
over to the Evil One. In that case there would be no possible friend for her, no ally available
to her in her difficulties, but that one. In that case, even though Ludovic should have both
feet within the State prison, he must be all in all to her, and she,--if possible,--all in
all to him.

Then she was driven to ask herself some questions as to her feelings towards Ludovic Valcarm.
Hitherto she had endeavoured to comfort herself with the reflection that she had in no degree
committed herself. She had not even confessed to herself that she loved the man. She had never
spoken,--she thought that she had never spoken a word, that could be taken by him as encouragement.
But yet, as things were going with her now, she passed no waking hour without thinking of him;
and in her sleeping hours he came to her in her dreams. Ah, how often he leaped over that river,
beautifully, like an angel, and, running to her in her difficulties, dispersed all her troubles
by the beauty of his presence. But then the scene would change, and he would become a fiend
instead of a god, or a fallen angel; and at these moments it would become her fate to be carried
off with him into uttermost darkness. But even in her saddest dreams she was never inclined
to stand before the table in the church and vow that she would be the loving wife of Peter
Steinmarc. Whenever in her dreams such a vow was made, the promise was always given to that
ne'er-do-well.

Of course she loved the man. She came to know it as a fact, to be quite sure that she loved
him, without reaching any moment in which she first made the confession openly to herself.
She knew that she loved him. Had she not loved him, would she have so easily forgiven him,--so
easily have told him that he was forgiven? Had she not loved him, would not her aunt have heard
the whole story from her on that Sunday evening, even though the two chapters of Isaiah had
been left unread in order that she might tell it? Perhaps, after all, the compact of which
she had been thinking might be more difficult to her than she had imagined. If the story of
Ludovic's coming could be kept from her aunt's ears, it might even yet be possible to her to
keep Steinmarc at a distance without any compact. One thing was certain to her. He should be
kept at a distance, either with or without a compact.

Days went on, and Fanny Heisse was married, and all probability of telling the story was at
an end. Madame Staubach had asked her niece why she did not go to her friend's wedding, but
Linda had made no answer,--had shaken her head as though in anger. What business had her aunt
to ask her why she did not make one of a gay assemblage, while everything was being done to
banish all feeling of gaiety from her life? How could there be any pleasant thought in her
mind while Peter Steinmarc still smoked his pipes in their front parlour? Her aunt understood
this, and did not press the question of the wedding party. But, after so long an interval,
she did find it necessary to press that other question of Peter's courtship. It was now nearly
a month since the matter had first been opened to Linda, and Madame Staubach was resolved that
the thing should be settled before the autumn was over. "Linda," she said one day, "has Peter
Steinmarc spoken to you lately?"

"Has he spoken to me, aunt Charlotte?"

"You know what I mean, Linda."

"No, he has not--spoken to me. I do not mean that he should--speak to me." Linda, as she made
this answer, put on a hard stubborn look, such as her aunt did not know that she had ever before
seen upon her countenance. But if Linda was resolved, so also was Madame Staubach.

"My dear," said the aunt, "I do not know what to think of such an answer. Herr Steinmarc has
a right to speak if he pleases, and certainly so when that which he says is said with my full
concurrence."

"I can't allow you to think that I shall ever be his wife. That is all."

After this there was silence for some minutes, and then Madame Staubach spoke again. "My dear,
have you thought at all about--marriage?"

"Not much, aunt Charlotte."

"I daresay not, Linda; and yet it is a subject on which a young woman should think much before
she either accepts or rejects a proposed husband."

"It is enough to know that one doesn't like a man."

"No, that is not enough. You should examine the causes of your dislike. And as far as mere
dislike goes, you should get over it, if it be unjust. You ought to do that, whoever may be
the person in question."

"But it is not mere dislike."

"What do you mean, Linda?"

"It is disgust."

"Linda, that is very wicked. You should not allow yourself to feel what you call disgust at
any of God's creatures. Have you ever thought who made Herr Steinmarc?"

"God made Judas Iscariot, aunt Charlotte."

"Linda, that is profane,--very profane." Then there was silence between them again; and Linda
would have remained silent had her aunt permitted it. She had been called profane, but she
disregarded that, having, as she thought, got the better of her aunt in the argument as to
disgust felt for any of God's creatures. But Madame Staubach had still much to say. "I was
asking you whether you had thought at all about marriage, and you told me that you had not."

"I have thought that I could not possibly--under any circumstances--marry Peter Steinmarc."

"Linda, will you let me speak? Marriage is a very solemn thing."

"Very solemn indeed, aunt Charlotte."

"In the first place, it is the manner in which the all-wise Creator has thought fit to make
the weaker vessel subject to the stronger one." Linda said nothing, but thought that that old
town-clerk was not a vessel strong enough to hold her in subjection. "It is this which a woman
should bring home to herself, Linda, when she first thinks of marriage."

"Of course I should think of it, if I were going to be married."

"Young women too often allow themselves to imagine that wedlock should mean pleasure and diversion.
Instead of that it is simply the entering into that state of life in which a woman can best
do her duty here below. All life here must be painful, full of toil, and moistened with many
tears." Linda was partly prepared to acknowledge the truth of this teaching; but she thought
that there was a great difference in the bitterness of tears. Were she to marry Ludovic Valcarm,
her tears with him would doubtless be very bitter, but no tears could be so bitter as those
which she would be called upon to shed as the wife of Peter Steinmarc. "Of course," continued
Madame Staubach, "a wife should love her husband."

"But I could not love Peter Steinmarc."

"Will you listen to me? How can you understand me if you will not listen to me? A wife should
love her husband. But young women, such as I see them to be, because they have been so instructed,
want to have something soft and delicate; a creature without a single serious thought, who
is chosen because his cheek is red and his hair is soft; because he can dance, and speak vain,
meaningless words; because he makes love, as the foolish parlance of the world goes. And we
see what comes of such lovemaking. Oh, Linda! God forbid that you should fall into that snare!
If you will think of it, what is it but harlotry?"

"Aunt Charlotte, do not say such horrible things."

"A woman when she becomes a man's wife should see, above all things, that she is not tempted
by the devil after this fashion. Remember, Linda, how he goeth about,--ever after our souls,--like
a roaring lion. And it is in this way specially that he goeth about after the souls of young
women."

"But why do you say those things to me?"

"It is to you only that I can say them. I would so speak to all young women, if it were given
me to speak to more than to one. You talk of love."

"No, aunt; never. I do not talk--of love."

"Young women do, and think of it, not knowing what love for their husband should mean. A woman
should revere her husband and obey him, and be subject to him in everything." Was it supposed,
Linda thought, that she should revere such a being as Peter Steinmarc? What could be her aunt's
idea of reverence? "If she does that, she will love him also."

"Yes,--if she does," said Linda.

"And will not this be much more likely, if the husband be older than his wife?"

"A year or two," said Linda, timidly.

"Not a year or two only, but so much so as to make him graver and wiser, and fit to be in command
over her. Will not the woman so ruled be safer than she who trusts herself with one who is
perhaps as weak and inexperienced as herself?" Madame Staubach paused, but Linda would not
answer the question. She did not wish for such security as was here proposed to her. "Is it
not that of which you have to think,--your safety here, so that, if possible, you may be safe
hereafter?" Linda answered this to herself, within her own bosom. Not for security here or
hereafter, even were such to be found by such means, would she consent to become the wife of
the man proposed to her. Madame Staubach, finding that no spoken reply was given to her questions,
at last proceeded from generalities to the special case which she had under her consideration.
"Linda," she said, "I trust you will consent to become the wife of this excellent man." Linda's
face became very hard, but still she said nothing. "The danger of which I have spoken is close
upon you. You must feel it to be so. A youth, perhaps the most notorious in all Nuremberg for
wickedness--"

"No, aunt; no."

"I say yes; and this youth is spoken of openly as your lover."

"No one has a right to say so."

"It is said, and he has so addressed himself to your own ears. You have confessed it. Tell
me that you will do as I would have you, and then I shall know that you are safe. Then I will
trust you in everything, for I shall be sure that it will be well with you. Linda, shall it be so?"

"It shall not be so, aunt Charlotte."

"Is it thus you answer me?"

"Nothing shall make me marry a man whom I hate."

"Hate him! Oh, Linda."

"Nothing shall make me marry a man whom I cannot love."

"You fancy, then, that you love that reprobate?" Linda was silent. "Is it so? Tell me. I have
a right to demand an answer to that question."

"I do love him," said Linda. Using the moment for reflection allowed to her as best she could,
she thought that she saw the best means of escape in this avowal. Surely her aunt would not
press her to marry one man when she had declared that she loved another.

"Then, indeed, you are a castaway."

"I am no castaway, aunt Charlotte," said Linda, rising to her feet. "Nor will I remain here,
even with you, to be so called. I have done nothing to deserve it. If you will cease to press
upon me this odious scheme, I will do nothing to disgrace either myself or you; but if I am
perplexed by Herr Steinmarc and his suit, I will not answer for the consequences." Then she
turned her back upon her aunt and walked slowly out of the room.

On that very evening Peter came to Linda while she was standing alone at the kitchen window.
Tetchen was out of the house, and Linda had escaped from the parlour as soon as the hour arrived
at which in those days Steinmarc was wont to seat himself in her aunt's presence and slowly
light his huge meerschaum pipe. But on this occasion he followed her into the kitchen, and
Linda was aware that this was done before her aunt had had any opportunity of explaining to
him what had occurred on that morning. "Fraulein," he said, "as you are alone here, I have
ventured to come in and join you."

"This is no proper place for you, Herr Steinmarc," she replied. Now, it was certainly the case
that Peter rarely passed a day without standing for some twenty minutes before the kitchen
stove talking to Tetchen. Here he would always take off his boots when they were wet, and here,
on more than one occasion,--on more, probably, than fifty,--had he sat and smoked his pipe,
when there was no other stove a-light in the house to comfort him with its warmth. Linda, therefore,
had no strong point in her favour when she pointed out to her suitor that he was wrong to intrude
upon the kitchen.

"Wherever you are, must be good for me," said Peter, trying to smirk and to look pleased.

Linda was determined to silence him, even if she could not silence her aunt. "Herr Steinmarc,"
she said, "I have explained to my aunt that this kind of thing from you must cease. It must
be made to cease. If you are a man you will not persecute me by a proposal which I have told
you already is altogether out of the question. If there were not another man in all Nuremberg,
I would not have you. You may perhaps make me hate you worse than anybody in the world; but
you cannot possibly do anything else. Go to my aunt and you will find that I have told her
the same." Then she walked off to her own bedroom, leaving the town-clerk in sole possession
of the kitchen.

Peter Steinmarc, when he was left standing alone in the kitchen, did not like his position.
He was a man not endowed with much persuasive gift of words, but he had a certain strength
of his own. He had a will, and some firmness in pursuing the thing which he desired. He was
industrious, patient, and honest with a sort of second-class honesty. He liked to earn what
he took, though he had a strong bias towards believing that he had earned whatever in any way
he might have taken, and after the same fashion he was true with a second-class truth. He was
unwilling to deceive; but he was usually able to make himself believe that that which would
have been deceit from another to him, was not deceit from him to another. He was friendly in
his nature to a certain degree, understanding that good offices to him-wards could not be expected
unless he also was prepared to do good offices to others; but on this matter he kept an accurate
mental account-sheet, on which he strove hard to be able to write the balance always on the
right side. He was not cruel by nature, but he had no tenderness of heart and no delicacy of
perception. He could forgive an offence against his comfort, as when Tetchen would burn his
soup; or even against his pocket, as when, after many struggles, he would be unable to enforce
the payment of some municipal fee. But he was vain, and could not forgive an offence against
his person. Linda had previously told him to his face that he was old, and had with premeditated
malice and falsehood exaggerated his age. Now she threatened him with her hatred. If he persevered
in asking her to be his wife, she would hate him! He, too, began to hate her; but his hatred
was unconscious, a thing of which he was himself unaware, and he still purposed that she should
be his wife. He would break her spirit, and bring her to his feet, and punish her with a life-long
punishment for saying that he was sixty, when, as she well knew, he was only fifty-two. She
should beg for his love,--she who had threatened him with her hatred! And if she held out against
him, he would lead her such a life, by means of tales told to Madame Staubach, that she should
gladly accept any change as a release. He never thought of the misery that might be forthcoming
to himself in the possession of a young wife procured after such a fashion. A man requires
some power of imagination to enable him to look forward to the circumstances of an untried
existence, and Peter Steinmarc was not an imaginative man.

But he was a thoughtful man, cunning withal, and conscious that various resources might be
necessary to him. There was a certain packer of casks, named Stobe, in the employment of the
brewers who owned the warehouse opposite, and Stobe was often to be seen on the other side
of the river in the Ruden Platz. With this man Steinmarc had made an acquaintance, not at first
with any reference to Linda Tressel, but because he was desirous of having some private information
as to the doings of his relative Ludovic Valcarm. From Stobe, however, he had received the
first intimation of Ludovic's passion for Linda; and now on this very evening of which we are
speaking, he obtained further information,--which shocked him, frightened him, pained him exceedingly,
and yet gave him keen gratification. Stobe also had seen the leap out of the boat, and the
rush through the river; and when, late on that evening, Peter Steinmarc, sore with the rebuff
which he had received from Linda, pottered over to the Ruden Platz, thinking that it would
be well that he should be very cunning, that he should have a spy with his eye always open,
that he should learn everything that could be learned by one who might watch the red house,
and watch Ludovic also, he learned, all of a sudden, by the speech of a moment, that Ludovic
Valcarm had, on that Sunday morning, paid his wonderful visit to the island.

"So you mean that you saw him?" said Peter.

"With my own eyes," said Stobe, who had his reasons, beyond Peter's moderate bribes, for wishing
to do an evil turn to Ludovic. "And I saw her at the parlour window, watching him, when he
came back through the water."

"How long was he with her?" asked Peter, groaning, but yet exultant.

"A matter of half an hour; not less anyways."

"It was two Sundays since," said Peter, remembering well the morning on which Linda had declined
to go to church because of her headache.

"I remember it well. It was the feast of St. Lawrence," said Stobe, who was a Roman Catholic,
and mindful of the festivals of his Church.

Peter tarried for no further discourse with the brewer's man, but hurried back again, round
by the bridge, to the red house. As he went he applied his mind firmly to the task of resolving
what he would do. He might probably take the most severe revenge on Linda, the revenge which
should for the moment be the most severe, by summoning her to the presence of her aunt, by
there exposing her vile iniquity, and by there declaring that it was out of the question that
a man so respectable as he should contaminate himself by marrying so vile a creature. But were
he to do this Linda would never be in his power, and the red house would never be in his possession.
Moreover, though he continued to tell himself that Linda was vile, though he was prepared to
swear to her villany, he did not in truth believe that she had done anything disgraceful. That
she had seen her lover he did not doubt; but that, in Peter's own estimation, was a thing to
be expected. He must, no doubt, on this occasion pretend to view the matter with the eyes of
Madame Staubach. In punishing Linda, he would so view it. But he thought that, upon the whole
bearing of the case, it would not be incumbent upon his dignity to abandon for ever his bride
and his bride's property, because she had been indiscreet. He would marry her still. But before
he did so he would let her know how thoroughly she was in his power, and how much she would
owe to him if he now took her to his bosom. The point on which he could not at once quite make
up his mind was this: Should he tell Madame Staubach first, or should he endeavour to use the
power over Linda, which his knowledge gave him, by threats to her? Might he not say to her
with much strength, "Give way to me at once, or I will reveal to your aunt this story of your
vileness"? This no doubt would be the best course, could he trust in its success. But, should
it not succeed, he would then have injured his position. He was afraid that Linda would be
too high-spirited, too obstinate, and he resolved that his safest course would be to tell everything
at once to Madame Staubach.

As he passed between the back of Jacob Heisse's house and the river he saw the upholsterer's
ruddy face looking out from an open window belonging to his workshop. "Good evening, Peter,"
said Jacob Heisse. "I hope the ladies are well."

"Pretty well, I thank you," said Peter, as he was hurrying by.

"Tell Linda that we take it amiss that she did not come to our girl's wedding. The truth is,
Peter, you keep her too much moped up there among you. You should remember, Peter, that too
much work makes Jack a dull boy. Linda will give you all the slip some day, if she be kept
so tight in hand."

Peter muttered something as he passed on to the red house. Linda would give them the slip,
would she? It was not improbable, he thought, that she should try to do so, but he would keep
such a watch on her that it should be very difficult, and the widow should watch as closely
as he would do. Give them the slip! Yes; that might be possible, and therefore he would lose
no time.

When he entered the house he walked at once up to Madame Staubach's parlour, and entered it
without any of that ceremony of knocking that was usual to him. It was not that he intended
to put all ceremony aside, but that in his eager haste he forgot his usual precaution. When
he entered the room Linda was there with her aunt, and he had again to turn the whole subject
over in his thoughts. Should he tell his tale in Linda's presence or behind her back? It gradually
became apparent to him that he could not possibly tell it before her face; but he did not arrive
at this conclusion without delay, and the minutes which were so occupied were full of agony.
He seated himself in his accustomed chair, and looked from the aunt to the niece and then from
the niece to the aunt. Give him the slip, would she? Well, perhaps she would. But she should
be very clever if she did.

"I thought you would have been in earlier, Peter," said Madame Staubach.

"I was coming, but I saw the fraulein in the kitchen, and I ventured to speak a word or two
there. The reception which I received drove me away."

"Linda, what is this?"

"I did not think, aunt, that the kitchen was the proper place for him."

"Any room in this house is the proper place for him," said Madame Staubach, in her enthusiasm.
Linda was silent, and Peter replied to this expression of hospitality simply by a grateful
nod. "I will not have you give yourself airs, Linda," continued Madame Staubach. "The kitchen
not a proper place! What harm could Peter do in the kitchen?"

"He tormented me, so I left him. When he torments me I shall always leave him." Then Linda
got up and stalked out of the room. Her aunt called her more than once, but she would not return.
Her life was becoming so heavy to her, that it was impossible that she should continue to endure
it. She went up now to her room, and looking out of the window fixed her eyes upon the low
stone archway in which she had more than once seen Ludovic Valcarm. But he was not there now.
She knew, indeed, that he was not in Nuremberg. Tetchen had told her that he had gone to Augsburg,--on
pretence of business connected with the brewery, Tetchen had said, but in truth with reference
to some diabolical political scheme as to which Tetchen expressed a strong opinion that all
who dabbled in it were children of the very devil. But though Ludovic was not in Nuremberg,
Linda stood looking at the archway for more than half an hour, considering the circumstances
of her life, and planning, if it might be possible to plan, some future scheme of existence.
To live under the upas-tree of Peter Steinmarc's courtship would be impossible to her. But
how should she avoid it? As she thought of this, her eyes were continually fixed on the low
archway. Why did not he come out from it and give her some counsel as to the future? There
she stood looking out of the window till she was called by her aunt's voice--"Linda, Linda,
come down to me." Her aunt's voice was very solemn, almost as though it came from the grave;
but then solemnity was common to her aunt, and Linda, as she descended, had not on her mind
any special fear.

When she reached the parlour Madame Staubach was alone there, standing in the middle of the
room. For a moment or two after she entered, the widow stood there without speaking, and then
Linda knew that there was cause for fear. "Did you want me, aunt Charlotte?" she said.

"Linda, what were you doing on the morning of the Sabbath before the last, when I went to church
alone, leaving you in bed?"

Linda was well aware now that her aunt knew it all, and was aware also that Steinmarc had been
the informer. No idea of denying the truth of the story or of concealing anything, crossed
her mind for a moment. She was quite prepared to tell everything now, feeling no doubt but
that everything had been told. There was no longer a hope that she should recover her aunt's
affectionate good-will. But in what words was she to tell her tale? That was now her immediate
difficulty. Her aunt was standing before her, hard, stern, and cruel, expecting an answer to
her question. How was that answer to be made on the spur of the moment?

"I did nothing, aunt Charlotte. A man came here while you were absent."

"What man?"

"Ludovic Valcarm." Remarkable tendency to mysticism. Complete lack of artistic feeling. Passion for the
dark clothes, and dislike of the picturesque. Habits have a power irresistible. Is the population
that speaks with more purity and elegance of language, except Galicians. Spirits are sharp,
focused and malicious. The language Atticism is general, and has a particular liking for epigrams
and proverbs. Morality in customs is far superior to that of the entire Arab Spain. The characters
are flat or little squeamish but tenacious, quiet, but sincere and loyal, very little bold,
or little initiative, but strong and thoughtful value.

Of the Catalan population is little that I have to say after the general description type I, Chapter
VI, Part 3. In all these organizations is strong. Is a hardy, prolific and enterprising, as
all happy from crosses. His personality is so strong, as strong and severe their probity.
Its value as indomitable as their spirit of independence. The idea of ​​work is there a religion.
It is a people who meditate everything he does, calculating for excellence and little boastful.
Industrial habits have generated significantly artistic feeling, which harmonizes with the speculation,
but art not the picturesque and passionate, but serious art that involves an idea. The Catalan
not vanity but fruitful spring - that drives progress - because it is lofty, entrepreneur and has
a horror all the words: stay back. He knows no barriers Useful things: if the world did not have
English or Anglo-Americans, the Catalans would Indeed the role of the Saxon races in industry
and commerce.

Finally, the population of the provinces (mainly Celtic, but with infusion of subsequent races)
has a semi-Spanish and half-French in their customs and their industry. Lovers of work and very
skilled in all manipulations, the Basque and Navarre change with the greatest happiness of the hoe
and hammer on the gun, if they see their freedoms or franchises seriously threatened. Here nobody
cares preferably with the political situation the nation: the main issue is personal freedom,
in harmony with the interest of the district. Work is the only way to be the man who understands
the Basque. He has such an addiction his freedom, his staff of race, nation and individual, which
retains its own language in spite of everything. Like the catalan is entrepreneurial, cosmopolitan,
if necessary. Whenever he looks jealous to preserve and exercise their initiative in every work
of social activity. Patient and tenacious, half-hearted, likes to lock himself in his individuality
to make things with aplomb - which does not prevent him always served the association for
all that is required collective strength and power, or a beneficent action.

The natural consequences of all these characteristic features are noticed in the social condition
loa four different groups that make up the continental Spain. Without ignoring some exceptions purely
local, or that manifest in better-educated classes, the general rules are no less justified, and can
be summarized as follows:

In the Spain that was radically changed by the Arabs or Moors, is met almost all Spanish society
which has produced most beautiful, big, rich and sublime on fine arts. There is no inch of
usable land that is not subject to cultivation. The show much skill manufacturing jobs and
happy inspiration. The Art of the irrigation is generally known and practiced skill dog. Where
land ownership is not something divided (and this is rare), supplemented with the population of movable
property, whether in agriculture, the livestock industry, small manufacturing, etc., so that
the mass is prolatarios While relatively small. The trend to the possession of something very
general, and with it instincts and habits of independence. Populations are little or no superstitious.
The begging exists only in very small scale, and that, reduced to the major cities in no case
comes from the instincts of the Arab race, but of economic causes and ancient monastic traditions.
There is no true welfare of the masses, as far as possible in the present state of society. Liberalism
is great in all populations. The economic movement is very active in all branches of production.
People love neatness and elegance. In a word, Moorish Spain, with a much smaller territory
to half of Gothic Spain, and a population equal to 66 percent of it, is at least four times
higher in social movement, wealth, welfare and civilization.

On the contrary, the Gothic Spain, covering more than half of the territory and population continental,
and contains so vast fertile plains and alti-plains in inaction vegeta and poverty (with rare exceptions)
is pleased to isolation, with no interest in communications; tolerate dirt everywhere and neglect, is literally
full of beggars, keeping begging as an institution, has an amazing profusion of ancient churches
and convents; look with disdain the beauties of vegetation, and is extremely backward in the art of
agriculture and manufacturing. There (quite the opposite of the other parts of Spain) the fields are
deserts, and the population is concentrated in cities and villages, where persistently keeps habits
of laziness, prudery and begging. The clergy (without noticeable influence, or nearly mule in politics
and social education in the other groups) is very central Spain still powerful to resist the damage
or progress, because it can easily influence on idle mobs clustered in localities. The customs
of the clergy are not austere, or thing it seems, does not take any interest in popular instruction,
and mixed in committed policy whenever it sees its own interests. In general it is greedy,
and their primary care is to ensure good income.

Life within that part of Spanish society ew monotonous and sad.

The appearance of the people is always gloomy, owing to his clothes, a yellowish-brown ink on
general. The buildings lack the grace, and elegance of simplicity and seduction of the picturesque.
The people divided only their attention, in entertainment, between the church and the bull ring,
ie, two mysticism - that of the traditional faith and danger. In conclusion, the old Spain (with
the exception of the ports of the Cantabrian coast, the city Madrid and Valladolid in part)
is deeply backward and stagnant at all. And worse is that even still has the notion of progress,
because they support or even understand enough railways and other elements of communication.

Although
the provinces are actually small republics, by the nature of its institutions and special ways,
and thus form a relatively superior to that of Catalonia the two
are so homogeneous in their general features, which can be understood
in a common appreciation.

It is in these two sections where the people have always shown greater respect and more tenacious
in the defense and preservation of its rights or municipal liberties, what which in ancient times
gave as examples the Aragonese nobles, the most liberal fraction and the strongest personality
among those that make up the second group.

Provinces in Catalonia and all progress is accepted with enthusiasm and perseverance by populations.

In
them there is no begging, beggars found in some Catalan towns come
almost all of Aragon, where down to exploit the industrious and commercial
spaces.

In the two groups that are major centers to Barcelona and Bilbao, intolerance Castilian, which
repels the foreign and new, has no place.

On the contrary, overseas is welcomed there with pleasure, and all involved new progress in civilization
is the most cordial hospitality. Municipal liberties and individualism have been fruitful to these
people industrious, thoughtful throughout, zealous to uphold the law, integrity and severe
in meeting any commitments. In no part of the peninsula is so deep as there the feeling of personality
(forgive me to repeat it), and HOWEVER, is there which presents more powerful the spirit of partnership.
This proves that there is no antagonism natural between the individual and collective, and that
man when he is personally free always seeking the support of the other individual strengths,
because it is a social being, and makes collective things much better than the socialist powers seeking
to absorb the initiative individuals on behalf of the common law.

Provinces in Catalonia and the democratic sentiment runs deep. There is the proletarian a man and
a citizen, he lives the work and is aware that work is given in society a supreme title which
entitles to the consideration and independence. These Both towns are the only ones who are left to
absorb the proposed unity of the nation Spanish, looking unit that
rests on truly liberal institutions, popular and national.

The Catalan and Basque keep their language, literature, traditions peculiar freedoms and shall
be considered as separate peoples. They summarize what is more prosperous and strong, the most
prolific and distinguished in the political, social and economic of Spain, and there is no
exaggeration to say that just as England Catalonia is Spanish, Provinces are the French mainland.
There are missing religious fanaticism, the taste for monopoly (although the Catalans are protectionist
by reason of its factories), and the veneration sable or militarism. The day that these people
are founding of the Republic, the change would be insensitive to the social and economic scarcely
would be an upward movement political. It is within these people which is the true seed of democracy
Spanish.

The result of the previous comparison is obvious, embracing the whole nation Spanish. It consists of
several villages, formed by crossing more or less intense of different races, and the various
activities of the institutions that have governed. Where want to counter that has reigned without
any absolute power socialism, social life has stalled. Torquemada where Philip II and have left
the deepest traces of their passage, the field has become sterile
or not has been rough but thorns and weeds.

Where convents and the clergy have dominated more strongly, begging has become endemic, idleness
great, gross superstitions, deep love of isolation, to the routine, the neglect and uncleanliness.
Where charters have missed the former (ie, freedoms or guarantees), industry, agriculture and
trade have remained steady, after The retrogradation hauled by the expulsion of the Moors and
Jews. Wherever you see the bad fruits of an education vicious and corrupting. On domestic morality
of central Spain is not an effect but the old Castilian pride and social isolation and in no way the
result of institutions above, who have made every effort to corrupt the people.

On the contrary, where the blood had been inoculated and customs of a people liberal, of spiritual religion,
equalizing and fraternal, and lover of nature (the Arab people or moro), is considerable prosperity.
Where there was no fighting or duality of religions there is more tolerance, less fanatical,
but alive instincts of liberty and fraternity the clergy have been less eager for wealth and
power. Where traditions have taken root economic freedom (that was the secret of the agricultural wonders,
artists and industrialists of the Moors), activity is visible, prosperity
satisfactory, in spite of the dismal action of regulatory laws and
prohibitive.

In the villages (the Basques) where no no monopolies, no soldiers, no bans or acquiring authority,
or indirect taxes ruinous, no police Inquisition, oppressive centralization, everything is
spontaneous and virile all prosper, peace reigns, the customs are pure, sweet and peaceful,
the ball game almost replaced the bloody bulls games, the game does not exist as passion and
speculation, real property is very divided, life is free, easy and cheap elementary instruction
is rather widespread, advanced civilization in every way, the population is much more condensed.

Catalonia, although much less independent of central government, the situation resembles to the
provinces, and is conspicuous by its industry and wealth, precisely because it has been less exposed
to the baneful influence of socialism despotic, brutal and corrosive opened by Carlos V and
Felipe II, socialism whose formulas were: the accusation, leveling in obedience passive, the
convent, the unity of religion, isolation, Spanish, prohibition, regulation of life, in short,
the complete suppression of individuality.

Such are the lessons to provide the present and the past of Spain,
comparing the situation four social groups most characteristic.

What is that justice may portend about the future of that nation? To answer this question it is
necessary to summarize the general features offered throughout Spain, for its constitution,
its government, its parties, social character, their education, their ideas, their economic
life, its literature and aspirations.

The Spanish Constitution is the image of the situation of the people
whom he governs.

They all coexist by halves, without a well defined character. It is a traditional monarchy or legitimacy
half divine right, half-roots, so that neither the aristocracy nor absolutism nor democracy
have authority or power or prestige, if not to hinder and damage each other. Parliamentary forms
and the apparent origin, but to the government obeys the courtesans influences to those of
the opinion. Very restricted circle of voters and powerful means of corruption, voting is always
the power, with no example of a ministry loses the election.

The parties, disoriented by lack of and operating principles in all cases the situations are exploited
to turn the power nation without any thing to win ministerial fluctuations. Little more or less
all governing parties by the same means: force, repression, intrigue, corruption of conscience.
Strange! the bulk of the Spanish people hate the government sable and wish the downfall of militarism,
and all ministries HOWEVER rely on on the bayonets.

Spain's mainstream institutions seem to have been calculated to counteract any tendency progress.
In vain the Constitution established the legal equality, if the law restricts imports and all
changes, pregnant traffic, regulate many industries make it extremely difficult for youth access
to the professions, and subject to dire hindrance the best companies. A single example, for a very
subordinate interest, simply in order to understand how disastrous are the effects of restrictive
regulatory regime that prevails in most of Spain. Shortly before my arrival at Madrid, the
government had wanted to befriend the porters, whose service is regulated. To this end set a rate
that was in the service of every waiter the price of four reales
for a trip or diligence within the city be so forbidden to all charge
more or less for their work.

This, no doubt, in deference to the porters and the public. A few days after the reform, the porters
were quejosísimos the government because they did not win anything. The reason was simple. Earlier,
arranging freely with individuals and making competition, winning six, eight or ten reales per
day, at very low prices because they made many commitments or services. But with the high tariff,
the public has ceased to occupy, and triple or quadruple the price of very rare commissions were
not compensated for the losses in the number of operations.

Spain is a country that abounds in paper mills, although the product is usually defective.
Economic protection prohibits the importation of foreign paper, forcing the Spanish to serve their
own. What is the result? The thought that has suffered famine in 1859-60 proves that the prohibition
only serves to give a privilege to manufacture and maintain national stationary. For many months
have not been printing paper for their publications, impotence of the privileged. In Spain,
classic wheat and all kinds of cereals, often seen the strange phenomenon of a grain shortage that
threatens to produce hunger! Why? Because people do not have the freedom to import grain when the
crops are scarce by lack of rain. Spain (it is worth repeating) is one of the countries of Europe
where snuff smokes worse (if not contraband), - and it belongs in
the production monopoly of Cuba, Puerto-Rico and Manila!

Prohibitive and protective tariffs, and therefore very high and over-regulation, make it difficult
and relatively small trade of a State as large as that. What is the result? The corruption of officials
of customs service, and smuggling huge and shocking, sadly respond. Spanish treasure lost by
what goes underground to the whole country (mainly Gibraltar, Portugal and the Pyrenees) three times
matter what a strong reduction in rates.
 Still weeping, she went up into her room, and throwing herself
on her bed, began, in her misery, to cry aloud for mercy. Some end must be brought to this,
or the burden on her shoulders would be heavier than she could bear. She had gone to the window
for a moment as she entered the chamber, and had thrown one glance in despair over towards
the Ruden Platz. But the night was dark, and full of rain, and had he been there she could
not have seen him. There was no one to befriend her. Then she threw herself on the bed and
wept aloud.

She was still lying there when there came a very low tap at the door. She started up and listened.
She had heard no footfall on the stairs, and it was, she thought, impossible that any one should
have come up without her hearing the steps. Peter Steinmarc creaked whenever he went along
the passages, and neither did her aunt or Tetchen tread with feet as light as that. She sat
up, and then the knock was repeated,--very low and very clear. She still paused a moment, resolving
that nothing should frighten her,--nothing should startle her. No change that could come to
her would, she thought, be a change for the worse. She hastened up from off the bed, and stood
upon the floor. Then she gave the answer that is usual to such a summons. "Come in," she said.
She spoke low, but with clear voice, so that her word might certainly be heard, but not be
heard afar. She stood about ten feet from the door, and when she heard the lock turned, her
heart was beating violently.

The lock was turned, and the door was ajar, but it was not opened. "Linda," said a soft voice--"Linda,
will you speak to me?" Heavens and earth! It was Ludovic,--Ludovic in her aunt's house,--Ludovic
at her chamber door,--Ludovic there, within the very penetralia of their abode, while her aunt
and Peter Steinmarc were sitting in the chamber below! But she had resolved that in no event
would she be startled. In making that resolve, had she not almost hoped that this would be
the voice that should greet her?

She could not now again say, "Come in," and the man who had had the audacity to advance so
far, was not bold enough to advance farther, though invited. She stepped quickly to the door,
and, placing her hand upon the lock, knew not whether to close it against the intruder or to
confront the man. "There can be but a moment, Linda; will you not speak to me?" said her lover.

What could her aunt do to her?--what Peter Steinmarc?--what could the world do, worse than
had been done already? They had told her that she was a castaway, and she had half believed
it. In the moments of her deepest misery she had believed it. If that were so, how could she
fall lower? Would it not be sweet to her to hear one word of kindness in her troubles, to catch
one note that should not be laden with rebuke? She opened the door, and stood before him in
the gloom of the passage.

"Linda,--dear, dearest Linda;"--and before she knew that he was so near her, he had caught
her hand.

"Hush! they are below;--they will hear you."

"No; I could be up among the rafters before any one could be on the first landing; and no one
should hear a motion." Linda, in her surprise, looked up through the darkness, as though she
could see the passage of which he spoke in the narrowing stair amidst the roof. What a terrible
man was this, who had come to her bedroom door, and could thus talk of escaping amidst the rafters!

"Why are you here?" she whispered.

"Because I love you better than the light of heaven. Because I would go through fire and water
to be near you. Linda,--dearest Linda, is it not true that you are in sorrow?"

"Indeed yes," she said, shaking her head, while she still left her hand in his.

"And shall I not find an escape for you?"

"No, no; that is impossible."

"I will try at least," said he.

"You can do nothing for me,--nothing."

"You love me, Linda? Say that you love me." She remained silent, but her hand was still within
his grasp. She could not lie to him, and say that she loved him not. "Linda, you are all the
world to me. The sweetest music that I could hear would be one word to say that I am dear to
you." She said not a word, but he knew now that she loved him. He knew it well. It is the instinct
of the lover to know that his mistress has given him her heart heartily, when she does not
deny the gift with more than sternness,--with cold cruelty. Yes; he knew her secret now; and
pulling her close to him by her hand, by her arm, he wound his own arm round her waist tightly,
and pressed his face close to hers. "Linda, Linda,--my own, my own!--O God! how happy I am!"
She suffered it all, but spoke not a word. His hot kisses were rained upon her lips, but she
gave him never a kiss in return. He pressed her with all the muscles of his body, and she simply
bore the pressure, uncomplaining, uncomplying, hardly thinking, half conscious, almost swooning,
hysterical, with blood rushing wildly to her heart, lost in an agony of mingled fear and love.
"Oh, Linda!--oh, my own one!" But the kisses were still raining on her lips, and cheek, and
brow. Each of these matches will answer me with same signal
from the viewpoint of home. We will meet with the garden wall. Prudence and discretion. Do
not miss.

Yours until death,

ALFREDO.

"

In reading the letter could not help smiling, saying to herself: -
When you end this woman's adventures mania! - Concertose after the
boatman for dispatch night and said goodbye to her very quietly recommending.

When

he came back into the room found it to Maxi, who was finishing fix it, and his cousin Adolf,
a thirteen to fourteen years with big cheeks, short and spiky hair and eyes full of meat,
wild and shameless. For some words failed to see from the hallway knew he had brawl between the
two cousins and guessed the cause. Adolfo was browsing through the guest's luggage and Maximina
opposed it. When our young man entered, both were surprised, amid Maximina room with a broom
in hand smiling, leaning on a comfortable Adolfo staring grimly.

- Oh, what a worker is Maximina! - Miguel said approaching her without regard to any Adolfo,
who had been unfriendly.

In the light of day might appreciate its shape. It was a dark pink paler than the small nose,
fresh mouth, head and forehead well shaped, brown hair and hazel eyes, neither large nor small,
lower than high, and big meat Apretadita of ways, revealing their great strength into muscle
movements. No one could call beautiful this girl with justice, and yet humble and innocent expression
of his eyes, constant smile twitched her lips, made her highly sympathetic. Her dress clear
calico with a pink scarf that covered his chest and part of the back. On hearing the cry of Miguel,
he answered with another:

- A lot, yes!

- You bet.

So early, and already I have V. arranged the room.

- Toma, because he has sent my mother! - Adolfo said from a corner,
with a desire to mortify her cousin, but she replied quite naturally:

-
It's true, I has sent my aunt in V. left.

- And you do so prontito
what they send you like her? - Miguel said turning to the boy .--
So and you will be wise, for sure your parents send you study every
day.

Adolfo gave him a suspicious look and dropped his eyes without answering.

-
I took a spin around the village - followed Maximina addressing the
young - and then I Juanito on steam.

- The town is ugly - it .--
That answered all outsiders say ...

- And V. not say so?

- To me
is like a town than another.

- Is not gonna V. occasionally to San
Sebastian?

- Almost never.

My aunt takes me when to bring some order, but round by round.

A Once I took my father (God rest his soul) to Bilbao to spend a
few days ... If I knew V. what he wants to come back!

- What then?

-
I was tired of walking from one place to another ... the theater ...
to walk ... to shops ... I was very sore feet.

They said it was because I was not used.

- She said her aunt who
has been V. educated in a school ...

- Yes, sir, two years in a convent
Vergara ...

- And he liked to V. be there?

- Very.

I've never been as happy as ever.

- So you would willingly V. with the nuns?

- Oh, indeed!

- She wants to return and become a nun ... but lacks
mortis - said his cousin animal raw back into the conversation.

Gross output very indignant that Michael, who led the little boy a
look of contempt.

Maxi had gone slightly red.

- Do not believe V. .. Yes, I would return, but causing no harm to
anyone.

I understand that now, while girls are not old, my aunt needs me
...

- What is unusual in that V. I want? - Miguel said softly .--
That is not proof having V. a grateful heart and pious.

Maxi then blushed to the ears.

Adolfo, who certainly did not seem right that praise and wanted by all means vent his resentment,
he said, smiling stupidly

- It's a Beaton! Spend their lives eating the saints.

- Well now was not eating the saints but sweeping - said Michel.

-
It has been in the church communicant Thursday and Sunday and bring
a rope attached to the body.

Want V. see?

And the great barbarian was entitled to his cousin, no doubt intending
to open the dress.

- Be still, Adolfo! - Said it, scared, nervous.

But Adolfo ignored and came to lay hands on it.

Then the girl, with a force surprised to Miguel, he refused to shake
making.

Adolfo resumed the grossly laughing.

- Adolfo, I call my aunt! - Maxi shouted, red as a cherry and saltándosele
tears and again he turned briskly.

- You do not do, boy - Miguel
said trying to intervene.

But Adolfo, irritated by the superior muscle of his cousin, had grabbed
her and struggled to open her dress, but without result.

Miguel wrested by force and I stood at the door of the room saying:

- It could be your parents give you a little better education!

When he returned to Maxi, found her sobbing, covering her face with
her hands.

- Come, Maxi, serénese V. ... it already happened.

But Adolfo, from the hallway, began yelling:

- Let him depart, to leave the hypocrite ... I will not leave here until we stoke a few cones.

The
voices and noise was just made, rose Dona Rosalia asking angrily:

-
But what is this?

What happens here?

- No, ma'am - Miguel answered, - that boy wanted to open up the Maxi
dress for teach a rope says it brings.

- No, mother - Adolf shouted,
- is that she hit me because I called Beaton.

- Shut up, vicious
- the mother said angrily, while applying a superb slap that flushed
cheek.

Adolfo began to cry out to the true God. Then Dona Rosalia certainly be sorry hurt your child,
Maxi stirred furious.

- Good hipocritilla you too!

Do comedy and whine until they get I hit him ...

To that injustice, the poor girl was as stunned for a moment, in his
face broken you guessed the efforts he made to not break to mourn
aloud.

She let out a sob drowned, put his hand on his heart and ran from the room.

- Come, to shut himself into his room, as always - Dona Rosalia said, smiling wryly.

However, as became clear that Michael did not approve of his conduct and his own conscience either,
endeavored to show that Adolfo was a stunning boy, but an excellent
background, that Maxi was very sensitive, who could not take a joke
and treat it as his cousin was ... a child.

Finally, there went with him stroking and promising many things to to calm down. Miguel was sadly
impressed by this scene.

He spent the day wandering from one side to another, read a little, wrote another while, at last
night came. After they had eaten and been half an hour to locuacísima hostess, was ready to go
a romantic date he had given the General's. While riding down the street in search of stone
staircase where Ursula had been waiting, I could not help laughing at the love Lucia professed
that mystery.

After all, he may be right, he concluded by say; if not for these
peppercorns thrown on our relationships, the truth is that would become
very annoying.

Ursula found sitting on the steps dozing.

Feeling its steps stood up strongly.

- Is V., sir?

- I am: do you have there the boat?

- I have it where you always tied to suspect not. I'll get away.

The boatman came down to the shore and she was touching the water to disappear entirely silhouette of
sight of our young. Few minutes it took to hear the splash of oars and receive the bulk of the boat.
So I ran aground, was quick to jump on it, but before that it put an Ursula again afloat and
away from the shore, took care to remove a match and keep it on until it ended. At the same
time came another light yonder on the dark mass of trees on the opposite shore. The boatman started
to handle the oars trying not to make noise. The village of Pasajes
rested.

In vessels habíanse anchored in the bay off and the stove, and the
crew carelessly handed sleep.

The night was overcast and mild. Although accustomed to the nocturnal
rendezvous and secret of now, original, got interested in our young.

Not a little contributed to this also did not see her lover was already about a month. The
separation was cooled a bit the memory of their fortunes, which had
recently lost it quite attractive.

On reaching the middle of the bay, Ursula said:

- We are half way, sir.

Miguel got up, lit another match and kept him alive as long as it
lasted.

- Do you know V., sir - I said Ursula, - if there are any
out there sailing, and we observed no know what to think of us?

-
Will think that we are engaged, and what is wrong with this?

- To
V. None.

To me, good I would!

At that moment another light came on land, but no longer on the trees,
but lower.

- V. Look, look at V. the fluorescent! - Malicious accent
exclaimed.

- Row, row, to see if we came early to the bank - said
Miguel.

A clarion call was heard in the silence of the night, clear, loud,
from the width.

- What is that? - The young man asked, amazed.

-
I do not know - said the boatman with no less awe.

Another answer to the first touch from the opposite shore.

Voices were heard after the control and noise race-crossing.

- Boga,
boga quickly, to see what the hell does that bustle - Miguel said.

Ursula obeyed, and did not take many minutes to get close to land. But the jump in it our youth,
a group of six or seven soldiers advanced toward him, putting his
mouth of guns on the chest.

- Taking prisoners around the world.

Miguel was shocked.

- But why ...

- Let's see - said the sergeant, without answering - one of you to register the boat, and you
two getting down there among the trees and pilladme accomplices.

- What is it, gentlemen? - Miguel asked, trying to calm and soothe the police (Because those
soldiers were police).

- I know V. in jail - said the sergeant.

I knew before, fortunately. The police, seeing those mysterious signs made from answered the
bay and on land, they figured it was a cache of contraband, and promoted all the commotion. Miguel
made great efforts to convince them not had such a thing, he was taking a walk for pleasure and
nothing else. After half an hour discussion, the sergeant had to
give evidence because there was no reason to confirm their suspicions.

The young man told him that Madrid had arrived the previous day in the steam Carmen, who was there,
and whose captain could ask if it was true what they say, that was staying at the house of D. Valentín
Vázquez, etc., Etc. After much hesitation, Sergeant allowed to go home, albeit accompanied
by a policeman to find out whether indeed staying at the inn he said.

XIII

Irritated by this ridiculous and dangerous adventure, appeared the next day at home overall,
without taking any precaution, and said he would not hear of appointments mysterious. Lucia,
who the previous night he had waited in vain, extremely mourned of his accident, could not
help but laugh at hearing him tell. Since then they were all the days when it pleased him
that Miguel visit the hotel's D. Paul Bembo.

The time left him free visits aprovechábalo for trips to San Sebastian work for the newspaper or
go fishing with their host. This D. Valentine, former captain of The Fast, brig round that
made the career of Havana, was a pretty original. Would at most fifty years, was tall and lean, of
a hardy, if not rheumatism were long periods that troubled him much, spent long hair and beard, and
gray, in the form of pan. In his life he had seen Miguel, or see thought, man quieter, was a portion
of days without hear the metal of the voice when he stumbled on the
street or at home, the ocean was taking his hat and growled something
to be "Good morning" or "good afternoon" judging by hypothesis.

At home never heard him ask or order anything, like a shadow when entering or leaving or sitting
at the table to eat. With Maximina his wife and, more was understood through gestures than words,
and their needs were not very complicated, there could scarcely have you ever met. If not rheumatism
was bedridden, was leaving, nearly every day, fishing in a boat of your property: hours and
hours spent his ex-captain anchored near the shore, still, the gear in hand, leaving roasted by
the sun and whipping through the air. A force of no more than relations with fish was identified by
its nature cold and silent grave, was a veritable dervish the sea, whose only desire seemed
to be to penetrate deeper into this element and melt and after it dissolved as a salt lick. Moreover,
in the village was considered as a good neighbor and very smart sailor.

This man, who crossed the world in sneakers, was the constant companion Miguel their boat trips.
Course, spoke little, almost nothing, but our young man had believed to understand gestures,
grunts, rather than words, it was nice to D. Valentine which could be attributed to the fans
that showed fishing. Especially since some day which engaged (pure coincidence) and got a great
robaliza put it on board, and former captain saved him, though tacit high regard. Furthermore, also
guessed that the ex-captain professed affection for his niece Maximina
vivid, well-paid by the latter: both understood admirably, with just
looking, and all tests were taxed affection could.

I say could, because Dona Rosalia was aware of this love and showed
no very determined to encourage trends.

For all that Michael was shaking his friendship with him. Maximina every day showing his eyes more sympathetic
and interesting. Candid and sincere people have the advantage of not repeated. So, without suspecting
that she could at the same time he opened his soul to look at it
sank, was captivating of her young guest, in terms the latter came
to annoy everyone in the house if they were not Maximina and uncle.

He spoke with former spend time taking advantage of the moments in which she had set up his room.

-
Is V. busy, D. Miguel?

- I'm going to leave the task.

And as he left the room and he began to asearlo Maximina, chatting
happily.

Miguel's teasing the convent she had defended then denying intention of closing in it. However,
through these negative transpired that perhaps over time came to do so. One day he said getting serious:

-
I am not a supporter of the monasteries. The most beautiful virtues of the Christian religion,
which are charity and sacrifice for others, can not be done but in the midst of society. What are
all a girl comes to acquire if they are to be enclosed four walls, if the world has not ever
take advantage of them? The only nuns who I respect and admire with all my heart are the sisters
of charity.

Maxi looked surprised and said nothing. The whole day was a bit pensive.

Used to gather daily at the time of dusk in front of some young tobacconist
but not in such numbers as Sunday.

The nights were quiet and warm, and conversation sometimes dragged
on until half past nine or ten.

Miguel became used to assist her, leaving the General's visits to
other times.

Often would sit next to Maxi and was pleased to give him the ear. If we asked if they believed
what I was saying, we would be almost impossible to answer.

All we can say is that not woo for fun, even just for fun: it is
possible that by dint of being sympathetic, the finding was beautiful.

But Maximina was so convinced otherwise, rejecting the blandishments of young with so much harder the
more pleasant it would be his company. One night I said supplicating accent:

- By God, do not tell me V. I'm pretty.

- Why?

- Because I figure that is V. making fun of me and makes me very sad ...

- Although V. was not, to me it seems, and this would be sufficient,
but since V. angry, the only nice call.

- Nor.

    Do not call me V. nothing.

The
      other girls were
      there, all older than Maxi, I threw penetrating glances and began
to murmur about the persistence with which the young stranger sitting
next to former.

The games that were killed in that meeting time outdoors, were little varied: hide an object
so that one might find, while others sang, sometimes smooth and other strong, as he walked
away and approached him, guess who was the person whose portrait drawing of speech were these:
to run the rope finial .... This game was the top finial pleased to Michael, for he retained a
lifelong memory lively and enjoyable.

Was to introduce a ring with a rope and hold on to it all pundits forming a circle, one is left
in the half, and the other ran the ring slyly shouting

The finial is in the hand. Follow the rosette. Follow the rosette.

The Coryphaeus made a sign: the choir was silent and still, if he guessed who had the ring,
it passed the center of the circle, and one took his place, otherwise
go again finial his career.

Our youth enjoyed this game, because he was carrying children, and perhaps also to shake hands
because he felt the contact of the status quo. Many times laughed thinking: If the Earl of Rivers
saw me playing the finial!

The next Sunday we danced, as the day he came into Maxi had promised on the floor when she
danced. The girl, relying on this promise, he decided to do this, but Guest did not keep your word,
and sat in front of the tobacconist as simple viewer. Maximina poor, disappointed, sad eyes looked
at him, leaving guess what boring without him was there.

- Listen, Lolita - said the young man calling a small Dona Rosalia - go tell Maximina that as
dark a little longer dance.

Maximina, upon receiving the news was happy.

And indeed, when the shadows of the night invaded the square, safe
and not to draw attention to the stranger ventured to take part in
the dance.

Not everything was loose and airy as would be hoped, therefore had
to hear some suppressed laughter, but took them with patience, and
within minutes and he paid no attention to anyone ... Maximina anyone
else, he said quietly: - "Lift V. more arms .»--« V. Do not jump so
much.

"Councils all very timely, that the young man was following to the
letter. The girl was happy, satisfied: Miguel her to dance more often
than the others, then tried to stand by your side to have it hand
in hand, which pleased to gently squeeze and caress. After dancing
facing each other, young people were in the habit of embracing a moment
at the end. Miguel, using one of these hugs, and for the darkness,
grabbed Maximina braid that hung in the back with a silk bow on top,
and his lips.

- What does V.? - Said the girl turned quickly.

-
Kissing the braid of her hair.

- Why does V. that? - asked in surprise.

-
Because I like. Yes; she would go to this noted pundit of
the city, and, if he would allow her so to do, would tell to him all her story.

And then she made another resolve. She would not do this without informing her aunt that it
was about to be done. On this occasion, even though her aunt should tell her to remain in the
house, she would go forth. But her aunt should not throw it in her teeth that she had acted
on the sly. One day, one cold November morning, when the hour of their early dinner was approaching,
she went up-stairs from the kitchen for her hat and cloak, and then, equipped for her walk,
presented herself before her aunt.

"Linda, where are you going?" demanded Madame Staubach.

"I am going, aunt Charlotte, to Herr Molk, in the Egidien Platz."

"To Herr Molk? And why? Has he bidden you come to him?" Then Linda told her story, with much
difficulty. She was unhappy, she said, and wanted advice. She remembered this man,--that he
was the friend of her father. "I am sorry, Linda, that you should want other advice than that
which I can give you."

"Dear aunt, it is just that. You want me to marry this man here, and I cannot do it. This has
made you miserable, and me miserable. Is it not true that we are not happy as we used to be?"

"I certainly am not happy. How can I be happy when I see you wandering astray? How can I be
happy when you tell me that you love the man in Nuremberg whom I believe of all to be most
wicked and ungodly? How can I be happy when you threaten to expel from the house, because it
is your own, the only man whom I love, honour, and respect?"

"I never said so, aunt Charlotte;--I never thought of saying such a thing."

"And what will you ask of this stranger should you find yourself in his presence?"

"I will tell him everything, and ask him what I should do."

"And will you tell him truly?"

"Certainly, aunt Charlotte; I will tell him the truth in everything."

"And if he bids you marry the man whom I have chosen as your husband?" Linda, when this suggestion
was made to her, became silent. Truly it was impossible that any wise man in Nuremberg could
tell her that such a sacrifice as that was necessary! Then Madame Staubach repeated the question.
"If he bids you marry Peter Steinmarc, will you do as he bids you?"

Surely she would not be so bidden by her father's friend! "I will endeavour to do as he bids
me," said Linda.

"Then go to him, my child, and may God so give him grace that he may soften the hardness of
your heart, and prevail with you to put down beneath your feet the temptations of Satan; and
that he may quell the spirit of evil within you. God forbid that I should think that there
is no wisdom in Nuremberg fitter than mine to guide you. If the man be a man of God, he will
give you good counsel."

Then Linda, wondering much at her aunt's ready acquiescence, went forth, and walked straightway
to the house of Herr Molk in the Egidien Platz.

CHAPTER VIII

A walk of ten minutes took Linda from the Schütt island to the Egidien Platz, and placed her
before the door of Herr Molk's house. The Egidien Platz is, perhaps, the most fashionable quarter
of Nuremberg, if Nuremberg may be said to have a fashion in such matters. It is near to the
Rathhaus, and to St. Sebald's Church, and is not far distant from the old Burg or Castle in
which the Emperors used to dwell when they visited the imperial city of Nuremberg. This large
open Place has a church in its centre, and around it are houses almost all large, built with
gables turned towards the street, quaint, picturesque, and eloquent of much burghers' wealth.
There could be no such square in a city which was not or had not been very rich. And among
all the houses in the Egidien Platz, there was no house to exceed in beauty of ornament, in
quaintness of architecture, or in general wealth and comfort, that which was inhabited by Herr
Molk.

Linda stood for a moment at the door, and then putting up her hand, pulled down the heavy iron
bell-handle, which itself was a gem of art, representing some ancient and discreet burgher
of the town, wrapped in his cloak, and almost hidden by his broad-brimmed hat. She heard the
bell clank close inside the door, and then the portal was open, as though the very pulling
of the bell had opened it. The lock at least was open, so that Linda could push the door with
her hand and enter over the threshold. This she did, and she found herself within a long narrow
court or yard, round which, one above another, there ran galleries, open to the court, and
guarded with heavy balustrades of carved wood. From the narrowness of the enclosure, the house
on each side seemed to be very high, and Linda, looking round with astonished eyes, could see
that at every point the wood was carved. And the waterspouts were ornamented with grotesque
figures, and the huge broad stairs which led to the open galleries on the left hand were of
polished oak, made so slippery with the polishers' daily care that it was difficult to tread
upon them without falling. All around the bottom of the court there were open granaries or
warehouses; for there seemed to be nothing that could be called a room on the ground floor,
beyond the porter's lodge; and these open warehouses seemed to be filled full with masses of
stacked firewood. Linda knew well the value of such stores in Nuremberg, and lost none of her
veneration for Herr Molk because of such nature were the signs of his domestic wealth.

As she timidly looked around her she saw an old woman within the gate of the porter's lodge,
and inquired whether Herr Molk was at home and disengaged. The woman simply motioned her to
the wicket gate by which the broad polished stairs were guarded. Linda, hesitating to advance
into so grand a mansion alone, and yet knowing that she should do as she was bidden, entered
the wicket and ascended carefully to the first gallery. Here was another bell ready to her
hand, the handle of which consisted of a little child in iron-work. This also she pulled, and
waited till some one should come. Presently there was a scuffling heard of quick feet in the
gallery, and three children ran up to her. In the middle was the elder, a girl dressed in dark
silk, and at her sides were two boys habited in black velvet. They all had long fair hair,
and large blue eyes, and soft peach-like cheeks,--such as those who love children always long
to kiss. Linda thought that she had never seen children so gracious and so fair. She asked
again whether Herr Molk was at home, and at liberty to see a stranger. "Quite a stranger,"
said poor Linda, with what emphasis she could put upon her words. The little girl said that
her grandfather was at home, and would see any visitor,--as a matter of course. Would Linda
follow her? Then the child, still leading her little brothers, tripped up the stairs to the
second gallery, and opening a door which led into one of the large front rooms, communicated
to an old gentleman who seemed to be taking exercise in the apartment with his hands behind
his back, that he was wanted by a lady.

"Wanted, am I, my pretty one? Well, and here I am." Then the little girl, giving a long look
up into Linda's face, retreated, taking her brothers with her, and closing the door. Thus Linda
found herself in the room along with the old gentleman, who still kept his hands behind his
back. It was a singular apartment, nearly square, but very large, panelled with carved wood,
not only throughout the walls, but up to the ceiling also. And the floor was polished even
brighter than were the stairs. Herr Molk must have been well accustomed to take his exercise
there, or he would surely have slipped and fallen in his course. There was but one small table
in the room, which stood unused near a wall, and there were perhaps not more than half-a-dozen
chairs,--all high-backed, covered with old tapestry, and looking as though they could hardly
have been placed there for ordinary use. On one of these, Linda sat at the old man's bidding;
and he placed himself on another, with his hands still behind him, just seating himself on
the edge of the chair.

"I am Linda Tressel," said poor Linda. She saw at a glance that she herself would not have
known Herr Molk, whom she had never before met without his hat, and she perceived also that
he had not recognised her.

"Linda Tressel! So you are. Dear, dear! I knew your father well,--very well. But, lord, how
long that is ago! He is dead ever so many years; how many years?"

"Sixteen years," said Linda.

"Sixteen years dead! And he was a younger man than I,--much younger. Let me see,--not so much
younger, but younger. Linda Tressel, your father's daughter is welcome to my house. A glass
of wine will not hurt you this cold weather." She declined the wine, but the old man would
have his way. He went out, and was absent perhaps five minutes. Then he returned bearing a
small tray in his own hands, with a long-necked bottle and glasses curiously engraved, and
he insisted that Linda should clink her glass with his. "And now, my dear, what is it that
I can do for you?"

So far Linda's mission had prospered well; but now that the story was to be told, she found
very much difficulty in telling it. She had to begin with the whole history of the red house,
and of the terms upon which her aunt had come to reside in it. She had one point at least in
her favour. Herr Molk was an excellent listener. He would nod his head, and pat one hand upon
the other, and say, "Yes, yes," without the slightest sign of impatience. It seemed as though
he had no other care before him than that of listening to Linda's story. When she experienced
the encouragement which came from the nodding of his head and the patting of his hand, she
went on boldly. She told how Peter Steinmarc had come to the house, and how her aunt was a
woman peculiar from the strength of her religious convictions. "Yes, my dear, yes; we know
that,--we know that," said Herr Molk. Linda did her best to say nothing evil of her aunt. Then
she came to the story of Peter's courtship. "He is quite an old man, you know," said poor Linda,
thoughtfully. Then she was interrupted by Herr Molk. "A worthy man; I know him well,--well,--well.
Peter Steinmarc is our clerk at the Rathhaus. A very worthy man is Peter Steinmarc. Your father,
my dear, was clerk at the Rathhaus, and Peter followed him. He is not young,--not just young;
but a very worthy man. Go on, my dear." Linda had resolved to tell it all, and she did tell
it all. It was difficult to tell, but it all came out. Perhaps there could be no listener more
encouraging to such a girl as Linda than the patient, gentle-mannered old man with whom she
was closeted. "She had a lover whom she loved dearly," she said,--"a young man."

"Oh, a lover," said Herr Molk. But there seemed to be no anger in his voice. He received the
information as though it were important, but not astonishing. Then Linda even told him how
the lover had come across the river on the Sunday morning, and how it had happened that she
had not told her aunt, and how angry her aunt had been. "Yes, yes," said Herr Molk; "it is
better that your elders should know such things,--always better. But go on, my dear." Then
she told also how the lover had come down, or had gone up, through the rafters, and the old
man smiled. Perhaps he had hidden himself among rafters fifty years ago, and had some sweet
remembrance of the feat. And now Linda wanted to know what was she to do, and how she ought
to act. The house was her own, but she would not for worlds drive her aunt out of it. She loved
her lover very dearly, and she could not love Peter Steinmarc at all,--not in that way.

"Has the young man means to support a wife?" asked Herr Molk. Linda hesitated, knowing that
there was still a thing to be told, which she had not as yet dared to mention. She knew too
that it must be told. Herr Molk, as she hesitated, asked a second question on this very point.
"And what is the young man's name, my dear? It all depends on his name and character, and whether
he has means to support a wife."

"His name--is--Ludovic Valcarm," said Linda, whispering the words very low.

The old man jumped from his seat with an alacrity that Linda had certainly not expected. "Ludovic--Valcarm!"
he said; "why, my dear, the man is in prison this moment. I signed the committal yesterday myself."

"In prison!" said Linda, rising also from her chair.

"He is a terrible young man," said Herr Molk--"a very terrible young man. He does all manner
of things;--I can't explain what. My dear young woman, you must not think of taking Ludovic
Valcarm for your husband; you must not, indeed. You had better make up your mind to take Peter
Steinmarc. Peter Steinmarc can support a wife, and is very respectable. I have known Peter
all my life. Ludovic Valcarm! Oh dear! That would be very bad,--very bad indeed!"

Linda's distress was excessive. It was not only that the tidings which she heard of Ludovic
were hard to bear, but it seemed that Herr Molk was intent on ranging himself altogether with
her enemies respecting Peter Steinmarc. In fact, the old man's advice to her respecting Peter
was more important in her mind that his denunciation of Ludovic. She did not quite credit what
he said of Ludovic. It was doubtless true that Ludovic was in prison; probably for some political
offence. But such men, she thought, were not kept in prison long. It was bad, this fact of
her lover's imprisonment; but not so bad as the advice which her counsellor gave her, and which
she knew she would be bound to repeat to her aunt.

"But, Herr Molk, sir, if I do not love Peter Steinmarc--if I hate him--?"

"Oh, my dear, my dear! This is a terrible thing. There is not such another ne'er-do-well in
all Nuremberg as Ludovic Valcarm. Support a wife! He cannot support himself. And it will be
well if he does not die in a jail. Oh dear! oh dear! For your father's sake, fraulein--for
your father's sake, I would go any distance to save you from this. Your father was a good man,
and a credit to the city. And Peter Steinmarc is a good man."

"But I need not marry Peter Steinmarc, Herr Molk."

"You cannot do better, my dear,--indeed you cannot. See what your aunt says. And remember,
my dear, that you should submit yourself to your elders and your betters. Peter is not so old.
He is not old at all. I was one of the city magistrates when Peter was a little boy. I remember
him well. And he began life in your father's office. Nothing can be more respectable than he
has been. And then Ludovic Valcarm! oh dear! If you ask my advice, I should counsel you to
accept Peter Steinmarc."

There was nothing more to be got from Herr Molk. And with this terrible recommendation still
sounding in her ears, Linda sadly made her way back from the Egidien Platz to the Schütt island.

CHAPTER IX

Linda Tressel, as she returned home to the house in the Schütt island, became aware that it
was necessary for her to tell to her aunt all that had passed between herself and Herr Molk.
She had been half stunned with grief as she left the magistrate's house, and for a while had
tried to think that she could keep back from Madame Staubach at any rate the purport of the
advice that had been given to her. And as she came to the conclusion that this would be impossible
to her,--that it must all come out,--various wild plans flitted across her brain. Could she
not run away without returning to the red house at all? But whither was she to run, and with
whom? The only one who would have helped her in this wild enterprise had been sent to prison
by that ill-conditioned old man who had made her so miserable! At this moment, there was no
longer any hope in her bosom that she should save herself from being a castaway; nay, there
was hardly a wish. There was no disreputable life so terrible to her thoughts, no infamy so
infamous in idea to her, as would be respectability in the form of matrimony with Peter Steinmarc.
And now, as she walked along painfully, going far out of her way that she might have some little
time for reflection, turning all this in her mind, she began almost to fear that if she went
back to her aunt, her aunt would prevail, and that in very truth Peter Steinmarc would become
her lord and master. Then there was another plan, as impracticable as that scheme of running
away. What if she were to become sullen, and decline to speak at all? She was well aware that
in such a contest her aunt's tongue would be very terrible to her; and as the idea crossed
her mind, she told herself that were she so to act people would treat her as a mad woman. But
even that, she thought, would be better than being forced to marry Peter Steinmarc. Before
she had reached the island, she knew that the one scheme was as impossible as the other. She
entered the house very quietly, and turning to the left went at once into the kitchen.

"Linda, your aunt is waiting dinner for you this hour," said Tetchen.

"Why did you not take it to her by herself?" said Linda, crossly.

"How could I do that, when she would not have it? You had better go in now at once. But, Linda,
does anything ail you?"

"Very much ails me," said Linda.

Then Tetchen came close to her, and whispered, "Have you heard anything about him?"

"What have you heard, Tetchen? Tell me at once."

"He is in trouble."

"He is in prison!" Linda said this with a little hysteric scream. Then she began to sob and
cry, and turned her back to Tetchen and hid her face in her hands.

"I have heard that too," said Tetchen. "They say the burgomasters have caught him with letters
on him from some terrible rebels up in Prussia, and that he has been plotting to have the city
burned down. But I don't believe all that, fraulein."

"He is in prison. I know he is in prison," said Linda. "I wish I were there too;--so I do,
or dead. I'd rather be dead." Then Madame Staubach, having perhaps heard the lock of the front
door when it was closed, came into the kitchen. "Linda," she said, "I am waiting for you."

"I do not want any dinner," said Linda, still standing with her face turned to the wall. Then
Madame Staubach took hold of her arm, and led her across the passage into the parlour. Linda
said not a word as she was being thus conducted, but was thinking whether it might not even
yet serve her purpose to be silent and sullen. She was still sobbing, and striving to repress
her sobs; but she allowed herself to be led without resistance, and in an instant the door
was closed, and she was seated on the old sofa with her aunt beside her.

"Have you seen Herr Molk?" demanded Madame Staubach.

"Yes; I have seen him."

"And what has he said to you?" Then Linda was silent. "You told me that you would seek his
counsel; and that you would act as he might advise you."

"No; I did not say that."

"Linda!"

"I did not promise. I made no promise."

"Linda, surely you did promise. When I asked you whether you would do as he might bid you,
you said that you would be ruled by him. Then, knowing that he is wise, and of repute in the
city, I let you go. Linda, was it not so?" Linda could not remember what words had in truth
been spoken between them. She did remember that in her anxiety to go forth, thinking it to
be impossible that the burgomaster should ask her to marry a man old enough to be her father,
she had in some way assented to her aunt's proposition. But yet she thought that she had made
no definite promise that she would marry the man she hated. She did not believe that she would
absolutely have promised that under any possible circumstances she would do so. She could not,
however, answer her aunt's question; so she continued to sob, and endeavoured again to hide
her face. "Did you tell the man everything, my child?" demanded Madame Staubach.

"Yes, I did."

"And what has he said to you?"

"I don't know."

"You don't know! Linda, that cannot be true. It is not yet half an hour since, and you do not
know what Herr Molk said to you? Did you tell him of my wish about our friend Peter?"

"Yes, I did."

"And did you tell him of your foolish fancy for that wicked young man?"

"Yes, I did."

"And what did he say?"

Linda was still silent. It was almost impossible for her to tell her aunt what the man had
said to her. She could not bring herself to tell the story of what had passed in the panelled
room. Had Madame Staubach been in any way different from what she was,--had she been at all
less stubborn, less hard, less reliant on the efficacy of her religious convictions to carry
her over all obstacles,--she would have understood something of the sufferings of the poor
girl with whom she was dealing. But with her the only idea present to her mind was the absolute
necessity of saving Linda from the wrath to come by breaking her spirit in regard to things
of this world, and crushing her into atoms here, that those atoms might be remoulded in a form
that would be capable of a future and a better life. Instead therefore of shrinking from cruelty,
Madame Staubach was continually instigating herself to be cruel. She knew that the image of
the town-clerk was one simply disgusting to Linda, and therefore she was determined to force
that image upon her. She knew that the girl's heart was set upon Ludovic Valcarm with all the
warmth of its young love, and therefore she conceived it to be her duty to prove to the girl
that Ludovic Valcarm was one already given up to Satan and Satanic agencies. Linda must be
taught not only to acknowledge, but in very fact to understand and perceive, that this world
is a vale of tears, that its paths are sharp to the feet, and that they who walk through it
should walk in mourning and tribulation. What though her young heart should be broken by the
lesson,--be broken after the fashion in which human hearts are made to suffer? To Madame Staubach's
mind a broken heart and a contrite spirit were pretty much the same thing. It was good that
hearts should be broken, that all the inner humanities of the living being should be, as it
were, crushed on a wheel and ground into fragments, so that nothing should be left capable
of receiving pleasure from the delights of this world. Such, according to her theory of life,
was the treatment to which young women should be subjected. The system needed for men might
probably be different. It was necessary that they should go forth and work; and Madame Staubach
conceived it to be possible that the work of the world could not be adequately done by men
who had been subjected to the crushing process which was requisite for women. Therefore it
was that she admitted Peter Steinmarc to her confidence as a worthy friend, though Peter was
by no means a man enfranchised from the thralls of the earth. Of young women there was but
one with whom she could herself deal; but in regard to that one Madame Staubach was resolved
that no softness of heart should deter her from her duty. "Linda," she said, after pausing
for a while, "I desire to know from you what Herr Molk has said to you!" Then there was a short
period of silence. "Linda, did he sanction your love for Ludovic Valcarm?"

"No," said Linda, sullenly.

"I should think not, indeed! And, Linda, did he bid you be rebellious in that other matter?"

Linda paused again before she answered; but it was but for a moment, and then she replied,
in the same voice, "No."

"Did he tell you that you had better take Peter Steinmarc for your husband?" Linda could not
bring herself to answer this, but sat beating the floor with her foot, and with her face turned
away and her eyes fixed upon the wall. She was no longer sobbing now, but was hardening herself
against her aunt. She was resolving that she would be a castaway,--that she would have nothing
more to do with godliness, or even with decency. She had found godliness and decency too heavy
to be borne. In all her life, had not that moment in which Ludovic had held her tight bound
by his arm round her waist been the happiest? Had it not been to her, her one single morsel
of real bliss? She was thinking now whether she would fly round upon her aunt and astonish
her tyrant by a declaration of principles that should be altogether new. Then came the question
again in the same hard voice, "Did he not tell you that you had better take Peter Steinmarc
for your husband?"

"I won't take Peter Steinmarc for my husband," said Linda; and she did in part effect that
flying round of which she had been thinking. "I won't take Peter Steinmarc for my husband,
let the man say what he may. How can I marry him if I hate him? He is a--beast."

Then Madame Staubach groaned. Linda had often heard her groan, but had never known her to groan
as she groaned now. It was very deep and very low, and prolonged with a cadence that caused
Linda to tremble in every limb. And Linda understood it thoroughly. It was as though her aunt
had been told by an angel that Satan was coming to her house in person that day. And Linda
did that which the reader also should do. She gave to her aunt full credit for pure sincerity
in her feelings. Madame Staubach did believe that Satan was coming for her niece, if not actually
come; he was close at hand, if not arrived. The crushing, if done at all, must be done instantly,
so that Satan should find the spirit so broken and torn to paltry fragments as not to be worth
his acceptance. She stretched forth her hand and took hold of her niece. "Linda," she said,
"do you ever think of the bourne to which the wicked ones go;--they who are wicked as you now
are wicked?"

"I cannot help it," said Linda.

"And did he not bid you take this man for your husband?"

"I will not do his bidding, then! It would kill me. Do you not know that I love Ludovic better
than all the world? He is in prison, but shall I cease to love him for that reason? He came
to me once up-stairs at night when you were sitting here with that--beast, and I swore to him
then that I would never love another man,--that I should never marry anybody else!"

"Came to you once up-stairs at night! To your own chamber?"

"Yes, he did. You may know all about it, if you please. You may know everything. I don't want
anything to be secret. He came to me, and when he had his arms round me I told him that I was
his own,--his own,--his own. How can I be the wife of another man after that?"

Madame Staubach was so truly horrified by what she had first heard, was so astonished, that
she omitted even to groan. Valcarm had been with this wretched girl up in her own chamber!
She hardly even now believed that which it seemed to her that she was called upon to believe,
having never as yet for a moment doubted the real purity of her niece even when she was most
vehemently denouncing her as a reprobate, a castaway, and a child of Satan. The reader will
know to what extent Linda had been imprudent, to what extent she had sinned. But Madame Staubach
did not know. She had nothing to guide her but the words of this poor girl who had been so
driven to desperation by the misery which enveloped her, that she almost wished to be taken
for worse than she was in order that she might escape the terrible doom from which she saw
no other means of escape. Nobody, it is true, could have forced her to marry Peter Steinmarc.
There was no law, no custom in Nuremberg, which would have assisted her aunt, or Peter, or
even the much-esteemed and venerable Herr Molk himself, in compelling her to submit to such
nuptials. She was free to exercise her own choice, if only she had had strength to assert her
freedom. But youth, which rebels so often against the authority and wisdom of age, is also
subject to much tyranny from age. Linda did not know the strength of her own position, had
not learned to recognise the fact of her own individuality. She feared the power of her aunt
over her, and through her aunt the power of the man whom she hated; and she feared the now
provoked authority of Herr Molk, who had been with her weak as a child is weak, counselling
her to submit herself to a suitor unfitted for her, because another man who loved her was also
unfit. And, moreover, Linda, though she was now willing in her desperation to cast aside all
religious scruples of her own, still feared those with which her aunt was armed. Unless she
did something, or at least said something, to separate herself entirely from her aunt, this
terrible domestic tyrant would overcome her by the fear of denunciation, which would terrify
her soul even though she had dared to declare to herself that in her stress of misery she would
throw overboard all consideration of her soul's welfare. Though she intended no longer to live
in accordance with her religious belief, she feared what religion could say to her,--dreaded
to the very marrow of her bones the threats of God's anger and of Satan's power with which
her aunt would harass her. If only she could rid herself of it all! Therefore, though she perceived
that the story which she had told of herself had filled her aunt's mind with a horrible and
a false suspicion, she said nothing to correct the error. Therefore she said nothing further,
though her aunt sat looking at her with open mouth, and eyes full of terror, and hands clasped,
and pale cheeks.

"In this house,--in this very house!" said Madame Staubach, not knowing what it might best
become her to say in such a strait as this.

"The house is as much mine as yours," said Linda, sullenly. And she too, in saying this, had
not known what she meant to say, or what she ought to have said. Her aunt had alluded to the
house, and there seemed to her, in her distress, to be something in that on which she could
hang a word.

For a while her aunt sat in silence looking at Linda, and then she fell upon her knees, with
her hands clasped to heaven. What was the matter of her prayers we may not here venture to
surmise; but, such as they were, they were sincere. Then she arose and went slowly as far as
the door, but she returned before she had reached the threshold. "Wretched child!" she said.

"Yes, you have made me wretched," said Linda.

"Listen to me, Linda, if so much grace is left to you. After what you have told me, I cannot
but suppose that all hope of happiness or comfort in this world is over both for you and me."

"For myself, I wish I were dead," said Linda.

"Have you no thought of what will come after death? Oh, my child, repentance is still possible
to you, and with repentance there will come at length grace and salvation. Mary Magdalene was
blessed,--was specially blessed among women."

"Pshaw!" said Linda, indignantly. What had she to do with Mary Magdalene? The reality of her
position then came upon her, and not the facts of that position which she had for a moment
almost endeavoured to simulate.

"Do you not hate yourself for what you have done?"

"No, no, no. But I hate Peter Steinmarc, and I hate Herr Molk, and if you are so cruel to me
I shall hate you. I have done nothing wrong. I could not help it if he came up-stairs. He came
because he loved me, and because you would not let him come in a proper way. Nobody else loves
me, but he would do anything for me. And now they have thrown him into prison!"

The case was so singular in all its bearings, that Madame Staubach could make nothing of it.
Linda seemed to have confessed her iniquity, and yet, after her confession, spoke of herself
as though she were the injured person,--of herself and her lover as though they were both ill
used. According to Madame Staubach's own ideas, Linda ought now to have been in the dust, dissolved
in tears, wiping the floor with her hair, utterly subdued in spirit, hating herself as the
vilest of God's creatures. But there was not even an outward sign of contrition. And then,
in the midst of all this real tragedy, Tetchen brought in the dinner. The two women sat down
together, but neither of them spoke a word. Linda did eat something,--a morsel or two; but
Madame Staubach would not touch the food on the table. 

In the early days, candle plant had not even raised the moral issue at that time increased his torment.
But when the first momentum of the pain began to subside naturally, as he had to get used to so
fatal to the idea of ​​death as all the forces of his soul were concentrated to collect, to
guard, to immortalize the memory of being that had moved away never to return, his mind began
to point the reflection of whether the death that would blend of blind hatred and his desire
for revenge. At the instant the bullet across his murderous meats, closed his eyes to the light,
had appeared in your brain in the shadow of a reproach? Could it have been the last thought
reprehensible your life?

When candle plant is making these questions, the answer was not for him doubtful: the deceased
had forgiven. And he should he, in turn, to forgive? If I wanted to be worthy of it, ought not
to follow their example?

...

Sometimes she closed her eyes and leaned her forehead, invaded by memories of their good instruction,
almost ashamed to have forgotten for a moment. Sometimes rebelled: life can not wholly of
love! If evil is opposed to the pardon, what is the prize right? ... But then came to his mind
the words of his beloved: "If forgiveness is not given to evil, if he also opposes evil, where
is the good when you applied? "She also said you have to love justice, but this alone is not enough
in life. Since creatures human sin are too weak even when they have foreknowledge of their sins,
it is necessary be lenient with the sum too large for their mistakes. "Justice is not forgiving
is just !...» he had replied, and she: "Justice is powerless strict:
only goodness can overcome evil.

"

He had nodded. Why had she consented? Had not been truthful at that time? And if truly had reason,
if no ulterior motive had received his word, ought not forgiving in that trance? By not forgiving
was because then I had not been sincere, had pretended to earn it,
to overcome it!

What should accuse him of hypocrisy last or weakness present?

That question came to believe that the truth is not always the same, that the contrasts of
life put man in opposition to itself without being able to impute bad faith. No, there was no
lied to recognize that goodness is necessary: ​​not showing, only to recall his preaching of forgiveness,
he'd understand? But how to accept it when his reason, his passion, his whole being wanted and
would necessarily want the punishment? Then I heard the following words, as clearly and as firm
as when she had uttered the "Truth is one: recognize it at all is
worth little, and it is not worthwhile if you do not assert against
our own interests ... "

One night he saw: he was met with arms outstretched, hands open, face
raised to heaven, and uttered the word "right."

The illusion was so intense that the young woke up with eyes full of tears.

But awake, thinking that in future had to be content only with vain views of dreams, I felt revolted
by the momentum of vengeful passion.

Wandering the places where he had been with her, still looking for
some of it under heaven again to hear that voice saying very softly:
"Forgive."

And he said: "I can not."

I could not. Sincerely forgive with the heart, could not, could not ever. But let justice to
proceed in its own way, he would refrain from intervening? Or sure as was the new deception, should
not reveal it?

The fear of desecrating the memory of your love stopped him. But do not you desecrate had already
left? Do not want to hear the voice of forgiveness, had no need for the dead to forgive him? ...
To sustain the charge against him was necessary Zakunine explain that he had been jealous had
believed him and founded his jealousy. That was not possible. What to do?

"Sorry," the voice kept saying.

And he heard, and not in secret, not in sleep, but clearly, in full
light.

One day wandering in the same mountain where he had served as a guide to his new sister, found
himself in front the chapel that she had not been open with his weak
hand.

The door was closed, as ever. The young man stood trembling, her eyelashes fluttered on burning
eyes. In the rusty key crude had settled her white hand. Wanted to open, then held, afraid to
erase the traces of his hand. But his arm is extended again, and
the door groaned on its hinges.

Her trembling increased. There, in the chapel he saw before him, kneeling, head bowed, hands together,
turned toward the altar, covered with a dress the color of fire ...

Candle plant fell to his knees, breaking to mourn. And amid their cries distinctly heard the voice
would say, "Sorry ..."

The next day I called the judge.

It was the first time was before the judge from the day he, after
triumphing over their arguments, he had said he believed suicide.

The young man was extreme confusion, not knowing what they could
want from him yet.

- I needed first and foremost - Ferpierre said
- to acknowledge my error and tell you he was right.

It was providential that you insisted on the prosecution, in spite
of the evidence, because without the insistence of you without the
confidence that saw him animated, I would probably Hand made further
investigations which have led me to discover the truth.

No doubt this time you already know what happened, but I wanted to personally confirm that your
friend has been murdered. The Natzichet has confessed his crime, and Principe, was silent in
the hope to save her, has confirmed his confession.

Roberto candle plant remained silent and confused.

- Are you happy now?

The young man replied.

- Have you provided a service to justice. Without you, the murder would have gone unpunished, or
worse, an innocent man would have paid the fault of others. There was a guilty and instinct I noticed
that you do not deceive: the only difference is that the charges you against the Prince have
proved unfounded.

Ferpierre again paused a moment to give candle plant time to say something,
and then as he continued silent, he continued:

- Prince could not
desire the death of the Countess when he came to love with a passionate
love and shy at once, compelling, a rebel like him to abandon his
revolutionary propaganda, to renounce their past, their political
faith, their accomplices.

And that was because I knew you estimated and obtained the affection
of the Countess, that affection before he disdained.

So reasons the human heart ... Then he saw his partner lost, not
only for the match but even for herself, because she loved him and
suffered at the thought that there was another, to be confident that
love is risen.

It was in search of the rival, to let him enforce it, and they had she ended a stormy explanation
to the crime. Everything he confessed.

There was a pause of the judge, which opposed candle plant still silent.

-
Are you happy? - Asked the judge.

- Why do you ask?

And the two men stared.

- Should you be happy, I think, had avenged his friend's memory, confusing
the inmate and obtaining the triumph of truth and justice.

Both turned to look in silence.

- And you are not happy ?...-- candle plant said finally.

In the judge's question had been a sort of incitement, almost a provocation to say entirely
his secret thoughts, as if their secret thought was the same judge.

- I have no passion to meet - he answered .-- One Love guides me: the love of justice ...

- If you have done justice ...

- Do you doubt?

- I do not doubt ... play

- Are you saying then that I should doubt? So why ... You have reported a crime: the crime
is proved.

You have not been able to tell which of two possible perpetrators of the crime were truly guilty,
given that both were capable of committing a crime: the guilty are accused itself! ... Would
you perhaps say that the confession alone is not enough? I know!
But That is when it is not proven.

A fool can declare an offender, but can not give reasons for its
action, or explain your circumstances.

But here Is not it explained everything? "The declaration confirms the other not? ... Or do
you deny faith to the test?

- Yes - broke candle plant, whose doubts had grown to express precisely
Weird being strengthened by the judge's questions .-- Yes, you deny
faith, as you are also the denied, because that statement is not disinterested,
since he had that look in your own freedom, because only a madman
can not declare an offender who has not committed, but who wants to
sacrifice ...

- So, you argue?

...

- I argue - added the young man quickly, as if to not take the time to think about what he said, and
was beat to talk to himself - argue that this woman sacrificed for
love sectarian zeal, that the murderer takes advantage of his sacrifice
to ensure impunity.

I say the murderer is he who can not be other than him ...

Yes,
candle plant had to say that.

The silent voice of forgiveness, that voice had never spoken.

What had been a dream, a hallucination. The truth was otherwise: the beloved lay underground,
his blood stains had not been cleared yet, the requested blood revenge, and he should get it.

-
Why do not you said before? Why hesitated at first?

- Why did not yet know, because I had not thought enough, because
you do not believe in crime and they identified all my strength to
deny suicide.

- "So not only would have killed this man, but to let
his infamy would condemn an innocent?

- Are you surprised?

Is not it natural that this man is full of joy?

- That idea is horrible! I understand what blind hate you, but I'm not blind. This Man is not as evil
as you believe: in life there are acts of courage, and his attitude in the presence the body and
in the early days of the prison has not been a joy.

- In the early days ... What about others?

Upon hearing that question, the judge thought for a moment before answering.

It was true. When the nihilistic confessed, he had given immediate credit to his confession; but
doubt was beginning to assault him again.

If the girl was sacrificed, what value should agree to his confession and confirmation of it by
Prince? ... However, he had again questioned one and another, separately
and together, and both had remained firm in their statements.

In the confrontation they had found some contradictions: while assuring Natzichet that at the height
of his explanation with the countess, hearing the voice of Prince troubled I called, had fired
the shot, afraid to show him and he had not been submitted another opportunity to get rid
of his rival, Prince said, however, have gone when he heard the shooting from afar. Again placed
facing each other, had Natzichet corrected, stating that he thought
he heard her voice, but certainly in his excitement he was mistaken.

Other small details Ferpierre had affirmed the suspicion that, as
in previous interrogation, in that the girl also somewhat took the
initiative of the explanation the drama, and urged the Prince to follow,
but, nevertheless, was determined to send to judges to the public
debate had just shed light on the mystery.

Before that, however, had wanted to call candle plant to see if he
too doubted, to discuss with him his new suspicion.

- In the early
days were oppressed by the pain - he replied, after examining all
mentally that again, - but then saw that the prison made him suffer.

-
Do you see? - Said candle plant .-- At first realized the error of
his crime, and later saw that their freedom was safe.

The media has been too easy!

So also thought Ferpierre.

One man, who suddenly happened several drives, which was not totally incapable of doing good, but that
was due more advances rapidly to evil, had been, without doubt, next
to confess, but the available had changed his mind at any moment,
and then yearns for freedom, had no qualms about holding on to the
raft.

- If he is so outrageous, does it mean that the hero has a
heart Natzichet?

- What prevents you admit it?

Far from denying it, the judge had expressly recognized by the ardor of their faith, the tenacity
of her feelings, she was capable of heroism.

- But how to surprise? His explanation of the crime was complete!

He had two reasons for commit: love and fanaticism.

- Does one and one should not advise that could save the man she loved and the fellow?

This was also true.

If the Prince had died at the Countess, she was trying to save, much
love for humanity, for love of the game.

- Well, but what about the
test?

- Ah!

Test! We must find it yet!

- Well then, while we found that test, so why do you insist on his suspicion, as I return to
my first opinion.

- Why?

- Because! I come to believe that the Countess had been killed!

- After they admit the existence of the crime?

- And how do you support? You do not know how, under what circumstances has pleaded guilty Natzichet!
He confessed when I told her that the Prince had confessed! I was lost and wanted save!

- And that does not show you in a lighthearted manner that he, only he is the murderer?

- But he has admitted nothing! It was I who said that, as of desperation!

- And do not you see that telling the truth! - Argued candle plant .-- If I had known this woman Zakunine
was innocent, he would have laughed to hear you! I would not have believed it! Would have discovered
trick!

How could he believe that his friend had ever confessed a sin committed by him? If this woman
believed what you said, this means that subconsciously you said the truth. And he wanted to save
him, because he has been really lost!

Ferpierre not answer.

I was astonished at not having done so obvious observation that among many others. And I felt
full weight of the clearest observation, and saw further that if it was for the truth he had
been misled by a false path.

- Hypothesis or presumption as all the others! - Suddenly exclaimed, eager to deny, Amid the confusion,
the importance attached inside the words of the young. All we do is to move from one scenario to another,
if the Countess has not been killed, has been murdered, and if you have not been killed, death
has come into their own hands! The crime is the work of the nihilist, if not committed by Zakunine,
if the nihilist is innocent, is Zakunine the offender! The passion of you not a test! Until you
bring me a valid proof of their passionate statements, we want to
be very severe with defendants, we can not do otherwise than acquit
them both, for lack of evidence!

And almost abruptly, he said he could retire.

When he was alone gave the order to not let anyone else. The gravity of his thoughts at that time
and the annoyance felt against himself, not allowed to deal with another matter.

The observation he had made candle plant was very just: How to deny
its value?

If so many questions had conceived and himself on the confession of Natzichet, why not admit it?
Was the most significant of all.

So, then, the passion of the young serving of something, whereas cold blood he was obliged
to show it was no use, since the young man who see more clearly?

Certainly, without the artifice he had employed with the nihilistic, the Prince and she would continued
to deny, hide behind the likelihood of suicide. It was also clear that of the two, the most careful
of salvation had been common since the early days, Natzichet. In all interviews had struggled
visibly to push Prince to defense.

There were acknowledged to be his mistress and he was required to confirm this statement, eager
to prevent the discovery of the resurrection of his love for the Countess, resurrection could
be suspected that the cause of the crime were jealousy. Then, believing Zakunine jealous and
had pleaded guilty, had invented their own involvement between the
two actors the drama.

Is the silence and sadness Zakunine could not be, was not, remorse the culprit? Whatever it was, the
Prince had shown during the first days perhaps in so much pain force, indifferent to their fate.

All
this made Ferpierre think they really had made a mistake when using your scheme against the
young man should have said rather that the Natzichet Prince pleaded guilty. And he should
have said when Zakunine was still under the weight of pain, then
probably would not have tolerated someone else suffer for it, and
have confessed the truth.

The truth! ... If this was the real truth, how do you know?

Since I wanted Natzichet save the Prince, would not have done, after it had actually confessed
guilty, as he did when he heard the judge's cunning story? And then, accusing a and another, the
confession would have been higher! Or who knows if the confrontation would have been fruitful!

But the confrontations were useless. Determined to take advantage of the generosity of the young
Zakunine recognized her guilty, and since she insisted in his confession, how belie?

Ferpierre thought to recall the Natzichet and say: 'Do you believe
you have saved?

Far from that, I lost you! Why did you confess? Why I told him myself had confessed he had
killed the Countess? Well, that's not true, he has not confessed to anything! I have told a lie.
But now I see I thought this lie is true, and yourself, without meaning, or rather, wanting the opposite,
I have tried it. If there been lying, you would have laughed to hear it. And instead, you trembled
for him, and has tried to save him, but in vain ... "

But Ferpierre stopped abruptly, anticipating that she would not have
gone unanswered: "I laughed at the lie, because instead of laughing
had to cause me grief.

Believing that you I told the truth, accusing Zakunine thought for saving me, and as he is
innocent and I I'm the culprit, I laughed, but trembled and told
you the truth ... "

What answer that? And how to test it lying? ...
What if I lied? If he was really guilty? If their conduct was not
of a hero saving, but a confessed offender? What was the reason not
to believe really guilty? Could have been so ably built and described
with so many colors a false outcome of the drama, which had known
tell a heap of lies in a voice so distraught, his face so sincere?

Then
again Ferpierre measure likely to deepen the assumptions, to rebuild
the task of all those days, stopping and in one, and in another scenario,
recognizing once again the intractable difficulties of the case.

Should
he resign positively to any further investigation? Should we actually
lose hoping to get irrefutable proof? And how long complete the vain
and file? "Rejecting the allegation, stating that the Countess had
been killed, and that the accused is Natzichet only by the fear of
seeing sentenced the prince, although he was as innocent as he, and
For this reason, versions of one and the other had not agreed? ...
Or back to the hypotheses, and excluded the most unlikely, that both
were guilty, that Natzichet had helped her lover to execute the murder
to the theft by phone, and treated after to save him, accusing?

Each
of these conclusions repugnant to the magistrate, but it needed to
be decided by some, and thought to make one last attempt about two
Russians, when, despite had given orders, he heard knocking on the
door. The usher, apologizing for the offense, gave a statement of
the attorney general, two underlined words in a corner of the envelope
indicated that communication was urgent.

Ferpierre idly broke the
envelope, because nothing seemed urgent if not leave a situation as
ambiguous. Inside were two roles: a telegram and a note from the attorney
general. This he wrote:

"I transmit to you immediately at the office
that just received from the Swiss Consul in Edinburgh. It was very strange, but the woman was as sincere in her prayer as
is faith itself. She would have cut herself with knives, and have swallowed ashes whole, could
she have believed that by doing so she could have been nearer her object. And she had no end
of her own in view. That Peter, as master of the house, would be a thorn in her own side, she
had learned to believe; but thorns in the sides of women were, she thought, good for them;
and it was necessary to Linda that she should be stuck full of thorns, so that her base human
desires might, as it were, fall from her bones and perish out of the way. Once, twice, thrice,
Linda besought her aunt to arise; but the half frantic woman had said to herself that she would
remain on her knees, on the hard boards, till this thing was granted to her. Had it not been
said by lips that could not lie, that faith would move a mountain? and would not faith, real
faith, do for her this smaller thing? Then there came questions to her mind, whether the faith
was there. Did she really believe that this thing would be done for her? If she believed it,
then it would be done. Thinking of all this, with the girl's hands between her own, she renewed
her prayers. Once and again she threw herself upon the floor, striking it with her forehead.
"Oh, my child! my child, my child! If God would do this for me! my child, my child! Only for
my sin and weakness this thing would be done for me."

For three hours Linda lay there, hearing this, mingling her screams with those of her aunt,
half fainting, half dead, now and again dozing for a moment even amidst the screams, and then
struggling up in bed, that she might embrace her aunt, and implore her to abandon her purpose.
But the woman would only give herself with the greater vehemence to the work. "Now, if the
Lord would see fit, now,--now; if the Lord would see fit!"

Linda had swooned, her aunt being all unconscious of it, had dozed afterwards, and had then
risen and struggled up, and was seated in her bed. "Aunt Charlotte," she said, "what is it--that--you
want of me?"

"That you should obey the Lord, and take this man for your husband."

Linda stayed a while to think, not pausing that she might answer her aunt's sophistry, which
she hardly noticed, but that she might consider, if it were possible, what it was that she
was about to do;--that there might be left a moment to her before she had surrendered herself
for ever to her doom. And then she spoke. "Aunt Charlotte," she said, "if you will get up I
will do as you would have me."

Madame Staubach could not arise at once, as it was incumbent on her to return thanks for the
mercy that had been vouchsafed to her; but her thanks were quickly rendered, and then she was
on the bed, with Linda in her arms. She had succeeded, and her child was saved. Perhaps there
was something of triumph that the earnestness of her prayer should have been efficacious. It
was a great thing that she had done, and the Scriptures had proved themselves to be true to
her. She lay for a while fondling her niece and kissing her, as she had not done for years.
"Linda, dear Linda!" She almost promised to the girl earthly happiness, in spite of her creed
as to the necessity for crushing. For the moment she petted her niece as one weak woman may
pet another. She went down to the kitchen and made coffee for her,--though she herself was
weak from want of food,--and toasted bread, and brought the food up with a china cup and a
china plate, to show her gratitude to the niece who had been her convert. And yet, as she did
so, she told herself that such gratitude was mean, vile, and mistaken. It had been the Lord's
doing, and not Linda's.

Linda took the coffee and the toast, and tried to make herself passive in her aunt's hands.
She returned Madame Staubach's kisses and the pressure of her hand, and made some semblance
of joy, that peace should have been re-established between them two. But her heart was dead
within her, and the reflection that this illness might even yet be an illness unto death was
the only one in which she could find the slightest comfort. She had promised Ludovic that she
would never become the wife of any one but him; and now, at the first trial of her faith, she
had promised to marry Peter Steinmarc. She was forsworn, and it would hardly be that the Lord
would be satisfied with her, because she had perjured herself! When her aunt left her, which
Madame Staubach did as the dusk came on, she endeavoured to promise herself that she would
never get well. Was not the very thought that she would have to take Peter for her husband
enough to keep her on her sickbed till she should be beyond all such perils as that?

Madame Staubach, before she left the room, asked Linda whether she would not be able to dress
herself and come down, so that she might say one word to her affianced husband. It should be
but one word, and then she should be allowed to return. Linda would have declined to do this,--was
refusing utterly to do it,--when she found that if she did not go down Peter would be brought
up to her bedroom, to receive her troth there, by her bedside. The former evil, she thought,
would be less than the latter. Steinmarc as a lover at her bedside would be intolerable to
her; and then if she descended, she might ascend again instantly. That was part of the bargain.
But if Peter were to come up to her room, there was no knowing how long he might stay there.
She promised therefore that she would dress and come down as soon as she knew that the man
was in the parlour. We may say for her, that when left alone she was as firmly resolved as
ever that she would never become the man's wife. If this illness did not kill her, she would
escape from the wedding in some other way. She would never put her hand into that of Peter
Steinmarc, and let the priest call him and her man and wife. She had lied to her aunt--so she
told herself,--but her aunt had forced the lie from her.

When Peter entered Madame Staubach's parlour he was again dressed in his Sunday best, as he
had been when he made his first overture to Linda. "Good evening, Madame Staubach," he said.

"Good evening, Peter Steinmarc."

"I hope you have good news for me, Madame Staubach, from the maiden up-stairs."

Madame Staubach took a moment or two for thought before she replied. "Peter Steinmarc, the
Lord has been good to us, and has softened her heart, and has brought the child round to our
way of thinking. She has consented, Peter, that you should be her husband."

Peter was not so grateful perhaps as he should have been at this good news,--or rather perhaps
at the manner in which the result seemed to have been achieved. Of course he knew nothing of
those terribly earnest petitions which Madame Staubach had preferred to the throne of heaven
on behalf of his marriage, but he did not like being told at all of any interposition from
above in such a matter. He would have preferred to be assured, even though he himself might
not quite have believed the assurance, that Linda had yielded to a sense of his own merits.
"I am glad she has thought better of it, Madame Staubach," he said; "she is only just in time."

Madame Staubach was very nearly angry, but she reminded herself that people cannot be crushed
by rose-leaves. Peter Steinmarc was to be taken, because he was Peter Steinmarc, not because
he was somebody very different, better mannered, and more agreeable.

"I don't know how that may be, Peter."

"Ah, but it is so;--only just in time, I can assure you. But 'a miss is as good as a mile;'
so we will let that pass."

"She is now ready to come down and accept your troth, and give you hers. You will remember
that she is ill and weak; and, indeed, I am unwell myself. She can stay but a moment, and then,
I am sure, you will leave us for to-night. The day has not been without its trouble and its
toil to both of us."

"Surely," said Peter; "a word or two shall satisfy me to-night. But, Madame Staubach, I shall
look to you to see that the period before our wedding is not protracted,--you will remember
that." To this Madame Staubach made no answer, but slowly mounted to Linda's chamber.

Linda was already nearly dressed. She was not minded to keep her suitor waiting. Tetchen was
with her, aiding her; but to Tetchen she had refused to say a single word respecting either
Peter or Ludovic. Something Tetchen had heard from Madame Staubach, but from Linda she heard
nothing. Linda intended to go down to the parlour, and therefore she must dress herself. As
she was weak almost to fainting, she had allowed Tetchen to help her. Her aunt led her down,
and there was nothing said between them as they went. At the door her aunt kissed her, and
muttered some word of love. Then they entered the room together.

Peter was found standing in the middle of the chamber, with his left hand beneath his waistcoat,
and his right hand free for the performance of some graceful salutation. "Linda," said he,
as soon as he saw the two ladies standing a few feet away from him, "I am glad to see you down-stairs
again,--very glad. I hope you find yourself better." Linda muttered, or tried to mutter, some
words of thanks; but nothing was audible. She stood hanging upon her aunt, with eyes turned
down, and her limbs trembling beneath her. "Linda," continued Peter, "your aunt tells me that
you have accepted my offer. I am very glad of it. I will be a good husband to you, and I hope
you will be an obedient wife."

"Linda," said Madame Staubach, "put your hand in his." Linda put forth her little hand a few
inches, and Peter took it within his own, looking the while into Madame Staubach's face, as
though he were to repeat some form of words after her. "You are now betrothed in the sight
of God, as man and wife," said Madame Staubach; "and may the married life of both of you be
passed to His glory.--Amen."

"Amen," said Steinmarc, like the parish clerk. Orleans is one of the first capital of the second order in France, for the importance of his
administration, his vast industry and agriculture and other social conditions, but is it, after
Paris, the most historic of French cities. Their land was, according to The general review of
the antique, the seating taken and destroyed Genabum by Caesar. Reedificóla Emperor Aurelian,
who gave his name, and was gathered by the kingdom Childeric of the Franks. Capital at the time
of the duchy of Burgundy, Hugh Capet has incorporated his crown, and later came to be the
heritage of the house of Valois and base of the industry actual Orleans whose secular struggles with
the branch staff have been so interesting in the history of France and still survive. It was
there where the famous heroine Joan of Arc defeated the English invaders earning the nickname of
Maid of Orleans, and that cost him a celebrity martyrdom at the stake in Rouen. Religious fanaticism
has paid almost always such as large acts of devotion and heroism sublime.

- The night had come when the train played in the small town of Etampes (of 8,000 souls) that belongs
to the department of Seine-and-Oise, strong 490.000 inhabitants, and whose capital is the famous
and historic Versailles. The train was running in the darkness of the countryside with the
speed of the hurricane, and soon realized, by the immense illumination that shone the valley
of the Seine, which was at the gates of Paris and had completed my journey.

       

* * * * *

       

CHAPTER VI.

* * * * *

CONCLUSION.

If the chapters in this series of souvenirs have been drawn with skill descriptive or purely
literary and artistic, yet would be very incomplete. Could scarcely offer a picturesque image
of the main features of Spanish appearance, and excite more or less the curiosity of readers enough
volunteers to encourage Colombians to his attention these pages. Also, always written in haste,
sometimes on tour and in any case within the final limit of a regular correspondence (in 1859-60)
these pages, although now collected in one volume, they must suffer the defects of its primitive
form.

In order to make them more useful, the reader will allow me to summarize my most notable travel impressions.

Nothing
can be as interesting for the people of the New World as the social study of Spain. The societies
of both regions are very consistent in its essential terms - where education above all - and should
compare them to see that wherever the same causes, ie, the same institutions, produce similar
results, given consideration to geographical differences. Rapid three-month trip I could do
in Spain is undoubtedly no, quite inadequate to make assessments pretty solid, more especially
as Spain is one of the people who have less ethnographic and social unit among the most notable
Europe. I feel strongly also did not have time to visit some provinces important (those of
Extremadura, Galicia, Asturias, Aragon and Navarra) that deserve special attention for more than one
reason.
He was not sure, moreover, whether Madame Staubach would not have been shocked at any proposal
in reference to an antenuptial embrace. On these considerations he abstained.

It was now near the end of November, and Linda knew that she was well. Her aunt had proposed
some day in January for the marriage, and Linda, though she had never assented, could not on
the moment find any plea for refusing altogether to have a day fixed. All she could do was
to endeavour to stave off the evil. Madame Staubach seemed to think that it was indispensable
that a day in January should be named; therefore, at last, the thirtieth of that month was
after some fashion fixed for the wedding. Linda never actually assented, but after many discourses
it seemed to be decided that it should be so. Peter was so told, and with some grumbling expressed
himself as satisfied; but when would Linda come down to him? He was sure that Linda was well
enough to come down if she would. At last a day was fixed for that also. It was arranged that
the three should go to church together on the first Sunday in December. It would be safer so
than in any other way. He could not make love to her in church.

On the Saturday evening Linda was down-stairs with her aunt. Peter, as she knew well, was at
the Rothe Ross on that evening, and would not be home till past ten. Tetchen was out, and Linda
had gone down to take her supper with her aunt. The meal had been eaten almost in silence,
for Linda was very sad, and Madame Staubach herself was beginning to feel that the task before
her was almost too much for her strength. Had it not been that she was carried on by the conviction
that things stern and hard and cruel would in the long-run be comforting to the soul, she would
have given way. But she was a woman not prone to give way when she thought that the soul's
welfare was concerned. She had seen the shrinking, retreating horror with which Linda had almost
involuntarily contrived to keep her distance from her future husband. She had listened to the
girl's voice, and knew that there had been not one light-hearted tone from it since that consent
had been wrung from the sufferer by the vehemence of her own bedside prayers. She was aware
that Linda from day to day was becoming thinner and thinner, paler and still paler. But she
knew, or thought that she knew, that it was God's will; and so she went on. It was not a happy
time even for Madame Staubach, but it was a time in which to Linda it seemed that hell had
come to her beforehand with all its terrors.

There was, however, one thing certain to her yet. She would never put her hand into that of
Peter Steinmarc in God's house after such a fashion that any priest should be able to say that
they two were man and wife in the sight of God.

On this Saturday evening Tetchen was out, as was the habit with her on alternate Saturday evenings.
On such occasions Linda would usually do what household work was necessary in the kitchen,
preparatory to the coming Sabbath. But on this evening Madame Staubach herself was employed
in the kitchen, as Linda was not considered to be well enough to perform the task. Linda was
sitting alone, between the fire and the window, with no work in her hand, with no book before
her, thinking of her fate, when there came upon the panes of the window sundry small, sharp,
quickly-repeated rappings, as though gravel had been thrown upon them. She knew at once that
the noise was not accidental, and jumped up on her feet. If it was some mode of escape, let
it be what it might, she would accept it. She jumped up, and with short hurried steps placed
herself close to the window. The quick, sharp, little blows upon the glass were heard again,
and then there was a voice. "Linda, Linda." Heavens and earth! it was his voice. There was
no mistaking it. Had she heard but a single syllable in the faintest whisper, she would have
known it. It was Ludovic Valcarm, and he had come for her, even out of his prison. He should
find that he had not come in vain. Then the word was repeated--"Linda, are you there?" "I am
here," she said, speaking very faintly, and trembling at the sound of her own voice. Then the
iron pin was withdrawn from the wooden shutter on the outside, as it could not have been withdrawn
had not some traitor within the house prepared the way for it, and the heavy Venetian blinds
were folded back, and Linda could see the outlines of the man's head and shoulders, in the
dark, close to the panes of the window. It was raining at the time, and the night was very
dark, but still she could see the outline. She stood and watched him; for, though she was willing
to be with him, she felt that she could do nothing. In a moment the frame of the window was
raised, and his head was within the room, within her aunt's parlour, where her aunt might now
have been for all that he could have known;--were it not that Tetchen was watching at the corner,
and knew to the scraping of a carrot how long it would be before Madame Staubach had made the
soup for to-morrow's dinner.

"Linda," he said, "how is it with you?"

"Oh, Ludovic!"

"Linda, will you go with me now?"

"What! now, this instant?"

"To-night. Listen, dearest, for she will be back. Go to her in ten minutes from now, and tell
her that you are weary and would be in bed. She will see you to your room perhaps, and there
may be delay. But when you can, come down silently, with your thickest cloak and your strongest
hat, and any little thing you can carry easily. Come without a candle, and creep to the passage
window. I will be there. If she will let you go up-stairs alone, you may be there in half-an-hour.
It is our only chance." Then the window was closed, and after that the shutter, and then the
pin was pushed back, and Linda was again alone in her aunt's chamber.

To be there in half-an-hour! To commence such a job as this at once! To go to her aunt with
a premeditated lie that would require perfect acting, and to have to do this in ten minutes,
in five minutes, while the minutes were flying from her like sparks of fire! It was impossible.
If it had been enjoined upon her for the morrow, so that there should have been time for thought,
she might have done it. But this call upon her for instant action almost paralysed her. And
yet what other hope was there? She had told herself that she would do anything, however wicked,
however dreadful, that would save her from the proposed marriage. She had sworn to herself
that she would do something; for that Steinmarc's wife she would never be. And here had come
to her a possibility of escape,--of escape too which had in it so much of sweetness! She must
lie to her aunt. Was not every hour of life a separate lie? And as for acting a lie, what was
the difference between that and telling it, except in the capability of the liar. Her aunt
had forced her to lie. No truth was any longer possible to her. Would it not be better to lie
for Ludovic Valcarm than to lie for Peter Steinmarc? She looked at the upright clock which
stood in the corner of the room, and, seeing that the ten minutes was already passed, she crossed
at once over into the kitchen. Her aunt was standing there, and Tetchen with her bonnet on,
was standing by. Tetchen, as soon as she saw Linda, explained that she must be off again at
once. She had only returned to fetch some article for a little niece of hers which Madame Staubach
had given her.

"Aunt Charlotte," said Linda, "I am very weary. You will not be angry, will you, if I go to bed?"

"It is not yet nine o'clock, my dear."

"But I am tired, and I fear that I shall lack strength for to-morrow." Oh, Linda, Linda! But,
indeed, had you foreseen the future, you might have truly said that you would want strength
on the morrow.

"Then go, my dear;" and Madame Staubach kissed her niece and blessed her, and after that, with
careful hand, threw some salt into the pot that was simmering on the stove. Peter Steinmarc
was to dine with them on the morrow, and he was a man who cared that his soup should be well
seasoned. Linda, terribly smitten by the consciousness of her own duplicity, went forth, and
crept up-stairs to her room. She had now, as she calculated, a quarter of an hour, and she
would wish, if possible, to be punctual. She looked out for a moment from the window, and could
only see that it was very dark, and could hear that it was raining hard. She took her thickest
cloak and her strongest hat. She would do in all things as he bade her; and then she tried
to think what else she would take. She was going forth,--whither she knew not. Then came upon
her a thought that on the morrow,--for many morrows afterwards, perhaps for all morrows to
come,--there would be no comfortable wardrobe to which she could go for such decent changes
of raiment as she required. She looked at her frock, and having one darker and thicker than
that she wore, she changed it instantly. And then it was not only her garments that she was
leaving behind her. For ever afterwards,--for ever and ever and ever,--she must be a castaway.
The die had been thrown now, and everything was over. She was leaving behind her all decency,
all feminine respect, all the clean ways of her pure young life, all modest thoughts, all honest,
serviceable daily tasks, all godliness, all hope of heaven! The silent, quick-running tears
streamed down her face as she moved rapidly about the room. The thing must be done, must be
done,--must be done, even though earth and heaven were to fail her for ever afterwards. Earth
and heaven would fail her for ever afterwards, but still the thing must be done. All should
be endured, if by that all she could escape from the man she loathed.

She collected a few things, what little store of money she had,--four or five gulden, perhaps,--and
a pair of light shoes and clean stockings, and a fresh handkerchief or two, and a little collar,
and then she started. He had told her to bring what she could carry easily. She must not disobey
him, but she would fain have brought more had she dared. At the last moment she returned, and
took a small hair-brush and a comb. Then she looked round the room with a hurried glance, put
out her candle, and crept silently down the stairs. On the first landing she paused, for it
was possible that Peter might be returning. She listened, and then remembered that she would
have heard Peter's feet even on the walk outside. Very quickly, but still more gently than
ever, she went down the last stairs. From the foot of the stairs into the passage there was
a moment in which she must be within sight of the kitchen door. She flew by, and felt that
she must have been seen. But she was not seen. In an instant she was at the open window, and
in another instant she was standing beside her lover on the gravel path. What he said to her
she did not hear; what he did she did not know. She had completed her task now; she had done
her part, and had committed herself entirely into his hands. She would ask no question. She
would trust him entirely. She only knew that at the moment his arm was round her, and that
she was being lifted off the bank into the river.

"Dearest girl! can you see? No; nothing, of course, as yet. Step down. There is a boat here.
There are two boats. Lean upon me, and we can walk over. There. Do not mind treading softly.
They cannot hear because of the rain. We shall be out of it in a minute. I am sorry you should
be wet, but yet it is better for us."

She hardly understood him, but yet she did as he told her, and in a few minutes she was standing
on the other bank of the river, in the Ruden Platz. Here Linda perceived that there was a man
awaiting them, to whom Ludovic gave certain orders about the boats. Then Ludovic took her by
the hand and ran with her across the Platz, till they stood beneath the archway of the brewery
warehouse where she had so often watched him as he went in and out. "Here we are safe," he
said, stooping down and kissing her, and brushing away the drops of rain from the edges of
her hair. Oh, what safety! To be there, in the middle of the night, with him, and not know
whither she was to go, where she was to lie, whether she would ever again know that feeling
of security which had been given to her throughout her whole life by her aunt's presence and
the walls of her own house. Safe! Was ever peril equal to hers? "Linda, say that you love me.
Say that you are my own."

"I do love you," she said; "otherwise how should I be here?"

"And you had promised to marry that man!"

"I should never have married him. I should have died."

"Dearest Linda! But come; you must not stand here." Then he took her up, up the warehouse stairs
into a gloomy chamber, from which there was a window looking on to the Ruden Platz, and there,
with many caresses, he explained to her his plans. The caresses she endeavoured to avoid, and,
when she could not avoid them, to moderate. "Would he remember," she asked, "just for the present,
all that she had gone through, and spare her for a while, because she was so weak?" She made
her little appeal with swimming eyes and low voice, looking into his face, holding his great
hand the while between her own. He swore that she was his queen, and should have her way in
everything. But would she not give him one kiss? He reminded her that she had never kissed
him. She did as he asked her, just touching his lips with hers, and then she stood by him,
leaning on him, while he explained to her something of his plans. He kept close to the window,
as it was necessary that he should keep his eyes upon the red house.

His plan was this. There was a train which passed by the Nuremberg station on its way to Augsburg
at three o'clock in the morning. By this train he proposed that they should travel to that
city. He had, he said, the means of providing accommodation for her there, and no one would
know whither they had gone. He did not anticipate that any one in the house opposite would
learn that Linda had escaped till the next morning; but should any suspicion have been aroused,
and should the fact be ascertained, there would certainly be lights moving in the house, and
light would be seen from the window of Linda's own chamber. Therefore he proposed, during the
long hours that they must yet wait, to stand in his present spot and watch, so that he might
know at the first moment whether there was any commotion among the inmates of the red house.
"There goes old Peter to bed," said he; "he won't be the first to find out, I'll bet a florin."
And afterwards he signified the fact that Madame Staubach had gone to her chamber. This was
the moment of danger, as it might be very possible that Madame Staubach would go into Linda's
room. In that case, as he said, he had a little carriage outside the walls which would take
them to the first town on the route to Augsburg. The wrath of the two has reached its height.
We have engaged in a duel to the death.

- What do you mean? - "Dona Luz.

- I mean - said her friend - that to see if I get mad or if he makes me wise, we have decided
to get married. Truth is that he gives up for now, and says that they are home with me, should
not be in their right mind, and already, without getting married, you I won the game and the bet, but,
therefore, adds that wants to marry for revenge and retaliate. I answer that I feel not to lose
my son, but you want to get even, and I assure you will leave with hands on his head if he keeps
playing, and he threatened that his loss will be greater when you are married, but the brash,
daring, not afraid to charge me, and closes eyes and lashes, and got married. Today, with more
courage than Cid will ask to my father is white hand, which will
take the reins and forced him out of step Canon mule and jump and
be more clever than your beautiful black horse.

Doña Luz, who could not hide his feelings, which showed on his face
as White pebbles through the clear water of a lake and gentle, rather
let see Although joy, knowing the new, already provided for her, the
marriage of his friend.

- How is that? - Continued the latter -.

Do you grieve me to marry? Do you feel the way informal? Do not you see it, simpleton? Do not fall
into that barbarous egoistón, Pepe Güeto, presumed and not without reason, to be a real boy, and all
the fury that has been and is still against me, lies that I had longed to love him so sad and so
serious, and I would since to sigh and mourn, not thinking only of him and not fun? Can not
you see it in love and rage that I do not think so in love or as capable of falling in love,
because I do not pout and do not get bored with tears and sublime? And do not calculate, finally,
I I love him too? If not, marry me? Once married, once the natural shrinkage that I save, I
will show my affection, and I'll see that it is a treasure in my soul, but hidden jokes and
joy, and when you see the treasure, and you enjoy, and know that it's yours, and better than
anything he could dream, must know that my heart is not cork but syrup and jelly, and has to
put such as jelly and syrup, and has to dance and laugh with pleasure, stating and confessing that
combine well the joys with true love, and laughter with ventura more serious and more serious in
the background.

Doña Luz, smiling and sighing at the same time, said then:

- It was not your kind concern for the cause of my sadness was my selfishness that after will achieve
victory. I feel that going to be happy and this I am glad, but I have jealousy for your friendship.
Why not confess? The only person I have gradually come to trust my heart and giving all my love,
you are. You, I admit, were paying me with interest, but now you have husband, and soon, perhaps,
have children, and all thy soul will be for them.

This poor orphan alone in the world, will be abandoned and without
a soul who understands and loves her.

Doña Manolita, tenderly embracing Dona Luz, said with these words:

- Although I did not have a thousand reasons to rejoice at my wedding, I glad, because I was excited
to declare your friendship now more explicit and as you've never done. I'm happy and proud that
both deem to friend me. Fear not you that neither Pepe Güeto, nor Güetillos that may shed some
light on what is to come, you steal that much of the soul I love you. Why, do you imagine the
chamber, corner, or place of my soul where the love of wife and mother, is filled or being filled
now, and formerly empty? Do you think that you love me did not exist before Pepe Güeto love? Go
if there was. What is is that then the boyfriend or husband, to whom I devoted, was dreamed,
made to order from mouth filled with perfection. The children, and I pretended I still pretend
they are a cherubim. As much as Pepe Güeto worth, not worth losing care or a hundred miles away,
I dreamed her husband. And as for the children, will be most noticeable difference, because
which have, if I have, as I hope and desire, not to be as clean and heavenly the imagined, but weeping,
naughty, dirty and stubborn, and I have to build up a thousand kennels
and should have between them a thousand cachetinas, all of which make
me not love them both.

Infer as I said, married and with children, you have to want more
than single, if you still love me you.

Even if you get married, will you let loving me?

- I'll never stop loving you - said Dona Luz -. I do not ever marry.

This last statement aroused much curiosity and interest of Mrs. Manolita,
and as privacy and confidence had reached its peak, there were many
secrets and revelations by Dona Luz, in a conference that its importance
merits a separate chapter.

-VI-

Dona Luz confidences

The doctor's
daughter led the confidences, telling Dona Luz:

- Why did not you
ever get married?

I do not deny, I know it is difficult but not impossible.

It's hard because these villages no boyfriend for you, and thou shalt not go for Groom to the big cities.
Not in your condition or your character go to find work, under the protection of an aunt,
you've neglected, or single and independent, now that you older.

- Useless is that I will answer - "Dona Luz -: you yourself answer
the question.

Our friendship, however, should be complete today. I want to give it the stamp of truth, not
taking secrets to you and opening my heart. I shall not fear, nor do I have to empty, or recesses
me on your concept, you have to show me the way I am. I will confess that anyone have confessed.
That corner, that piece of soul, where you say you had love for husband and children, even
before them, I have me also in my soul, but a pride that no is based on reasons, a reluctance
born of the manner in which I was educated, is opposed to me to marry ....

- With another Güeto Pepe, for example - Dona Manolita interrupted.

-
Pepe Güeto is honest, good, intelligent, richer than I - said Dona
Luz -.

I would a fool if he disdained, founded on something I disdain: but
this is not reasonable, feel, and it is certain that nobody in Güeto
Pepe conditions, and being in his view, I want Women own and I will
love you to him for a husband.

Understood that I speak within ordinary life, without any novel. This could be this, that, not
a man like Pepe Ghetto, but the last farmhand put an eye on me with reasonable hope for, and
I and would cede theirs, not the daughter of a ruined marquis, but being a millionaire and
princess. Unfortunately by that or mine, or no of those beings with superior brands and qualities
his class, which would, in short, that men by nature are more equal what is believed, and
that those items and qualities are created by artifice, or, if such beings are not reserved
for me, or I lack imagination to pretend someone, but not exist, all those beauties they would fall
in love. Thus, the energy of love is in me to be asleep, but not dead. God forbid me to kill
me in any power of which God himself has given me. Sleep love in my breast. My reason serene
and cold tap ensure that not wake him but he should. But, my daughter, no one comes to wake, and
I fear that his dream is eternal.

- Come on, I'm sorry I said nonsense - said Dona Manolita -. What would ugly or bad you were you
and show you where it is to be none with titles awake enough to go to sleep that precious love?
Almost seems to me not just right, but you are obliged to do so. It is not fair that so much
beauty (care if you're nice!), it is not lawful for such distinction
and elegance are buried here.

It is cruel to eat so cute love sleeping, age, and perhaps, perhaps, have the misfortune that
is moth-eaten wings. Sure there are a thousand suitors out there, these worlds, rendered fall
at your feet, if they see you. Sure to be one among them whom you should love. But guess how
are you here? Why did you play with them hide and seek?

- First, because, in order to find poetry, I have to start destroying the poetry. Love not to be
sought, must appear, must stem from a providential. Wanted fortune are seeking adventure, looking
for business, and you said it was seeking placement, but love not searched. Besides, where
will I go not further away from my site, more isolated than Villafría? Where shall I not be regarded
as an adventurer?

I'm almost out of all kinds social. My relatives humiliate me if I go with them. If I were alone,
say all and D. Acisclo, I was a cow without a cowbell. Marquise could be and not what I am neither
be, because it's ridiculous the title without the appropriate income. Here, where everyone
knows me, I Miss Dona Luz, the marquise, still retaining his ancestral home, and has won the esteem
and respect, because everyone knows his life for twelve years. For those worlds I would be
a somewhat mysterious Dona Luz, who each imagine a thousand horrors. Begin for stating a truth,
to invent and put on it and a half million lies. The truth would be that I am the daughter of
a marquis skull and broken, and one such Antonia Gutierrez, single and seamstress, with whom my
father had a love affair. Believe me I'm nowhere better than here although I never fell in love
and got married. Why not fall in love? Why love has to be always asleep? I am inclined to believe
that only one love, each for its purpose, but love is one, and if you change the object does
not change the love. If so, as I desire, my love wake up and employ all the beauty of heaven,
God has raised, in flowers, poetry, and who knows if even in science, because in my tight brain
Women's fit its great truths, his dark and fearful mystery problems.

- Nothing I answer you - "Dona Manolita -. I see much of what you say you're right; but you
trust me and make me see the deepest part of the soul, take me out of curiosity: explain to
me, if you can, certain things that I find very rare in your life. For improvident, by careless be
thy father, for a few friends and relations had in the world, is not had no one to leave you confident
but D. Acisclo? "You yourself, having lived in Madrid until the age
of fourteen, not one friend left there?

Is not there anyone left who care about you?

- Neglect and the foresight of my father could not be higher. Harto has proved his ruin; but also,
just that I, tying the broken memories of my childhood, I count my way to live in Madrid, to
understand that the best, perhaps the only thing that could make my father was entrusted to me
D. Acisclo. Until I was five years, I lived in the house of a lady seemed fairly well off, and
whose name was Dona Francisca.

I pondered afterwards if that lady was my real mother, but if you treat me well and even with care
and gifts, known or should have known, judging by the confused I remember that I was weird. I
was at home please. I was not married. Often went to visit a handsome gentleman, friend of my
father. My father would see me, sometimes alone, sometimes with the gentleman. Mrs. died and
then my father took me with him to his house, and I no longer trusted anyone. A few months
of being with my father, where I watched an old maid, the nurse came from England my dad ordered
for me and that was with me until a few days before my father and I we came to Villafría.

Doña
Manolita, it was the best girl in the world and he loved and admired Dona Luz, pleased with the
confidence that made him, and very curious to know everything, listened without flinching,
sitting in front of her friend.

It continued:

- My nanny was the duty personified, but as a duty, no heat, no enthusiasm and no affection.
I'm almost to assert that I never kissed, never gave me a caress. Instead, I taught As she knew, and
my father considered a precocious prodigy, like a wise little girl.

The life of my father, but then I did not understand, I understand now that was disipadísima, and
the complete opposite as exemplary. Playing, courting, was away from
home until three or four o'clock.

I was like a refuge, as a means of purification, as their comfort saint in times of gloom and sadness.
I called his room, and now alone with me tenderness told me, kissed me and cried at times. Since
I was so young, and could not figure out me or try to learn from him the cause of their grief.

Several
times I did also go to his room in time that he was not alone, but with a beautiful and elegant
woman, though dressed carelessly, and this woman I held in beautiful and funny, and made me
a thousand caresses.

- That woman would be your mother - Donna Manolita interrupted.

- That would have thought me too - went Dona Luz - if that woman had
always been the same, but were varied.

All are modest people, were there with some mystery, and the nurse never saw them. A biggie
when I myself, when I was nine years, never again my father to teach me any of those women who,
by the impression I left, it I figured that had to be ladies and not vulgar. My father was a gallant
knight much liked the ladies. I inferred then nothing of this, but later I inferred unlikelihood
that I really was a daughter of Antonia Gutierrez, a seamstress. Could not my father have
sought to legitimize the false mother, without compromising a lady? Even in my father's life,
despite my young age, ever thought this, but I never dared, or indirectly, to ask anything from
my father on the subject. He dodged the conversation, if by chance fell upon my supposed or
real mother Antonia Gutiérrez. After death, and after I met twenty years, I searched hard
to give me something light among his papers. He tore all the cards of some interest, because
it was neglected and afraid to leave them anywhere and laws. What I have found, therefore, was negligible:
or a picture or a word written. Only on his very body was found this medallion gold, not encrypt
or sign.

Luz took from her bosom the medallion of the speaker.

- Since then took the medallion in my breast, as my father's memory.



"Well, no; not exactly. But that won't matter."

"And how long shall we stay there?"

"Ah! that must depend on tidings from Berlin and Munich. It may be that we shall be compelled
to get away from Bavaria altogether." Then he paused for a moment, while she was thinking what
other question she could ask. "By the by," he said, "my father is in Augsburg."

She had heard of his father as a man altogether worthless, one ever in difficulties, who would
never work, who had never seemed to wish to be respectable. When the great sins of Ludovic's
father had been magnified to her by Madame Staubach and by Peter, with certain wise hints that
swans never came out of the eggs of geese, Linda would declare with some pride of spirit that
the son was not like the father; that the son had never been known to be idle. She had not
attempted to defend the father, of whom it seemed to be acknowledged by the common consent
of all Nuremberg that he was utterly worthless, and a disgrace to the city which had produced
him. But Linda now felt very thankful for the assurance of even his presence. Had it been Ludovic's
mother, how much better would it have been! But that she should be received even by his father,--by
such a father,--was much to her in her desolate condition.

"Will he be at the station?" Linda asked.

"Oh, no."

"Does he expect us?"

"Well, no. You see, Linda, I only got out of prison yesterday morning."

"Does your father live in Augsburg?"

"He hardly lives anywhere. He goes and comes at present as he is wanted by the cause. It is
quite on the cards that we should find that the police have nabbed him. But I hope not. I think
not. When I have seen you made comfortable, and when we have had something to eat and drink,
I shall know where to seek him. While I am doing so, you had better lie down."

She was afraid to ask him whether his father knew, or would suspect, aught as to his bringing
a companion, or whether the old man would welcome such a companion for his son. Indeed, she
hardly knew how to frame any question that had application to herself. She merely assented
to his proposition that she should go to bed at the Black Bear, and then waited for the end
of their journey. Early in the morning their fellow-passengers had left them, and they were
now alone. But Ludovic distressed her no more by the vehemence of his caresses. He also was
tired and fagged and cold and jaded. It is not improbable that he had been meditating whether
he, in his present walk of life, had done well to encumber himself with the burden of a young
woman.

At last they were at the platform at Augsburg. "Don't move quite yet," he said. "One has to
be a little careful." When she attempted to raise herself she found herself to be so numb that
all quickness of motion was out of the question. Ludovic, paying no attention to her, sat back
in the carriage, with his cap before his face, looking with eager eyes over the cap on to the
platform.

"May we not go now?" said Linda, when she saw that the other passengers had alighted.

"Don't be in a hurry, my girl. By God, there are those ruffians, the gendarmerie. It's all
up. By Jove! yes, it's all up. That is hard, after all I did at Nuremberg."

"Ludovic!"

"Look here, Linda. Get out at once and take these letters. Make your way to the Black Bear,
and wait for me."

"And you?"

"Never mind me, but do as you're told. In a moment it will be too late. If we are noticed to
be together it will be too late."

"But how am I to get to the Black Bear?"

"Heaven and earth! haven't you a tongue? But here they are, and it's all up." And so it was.
A railway porter opened the door, and behind the railway porter were two policemen. Linda,
in her dismay, had not even taken the papers which had been offered to her, and Valcarm, as
soon as he was sure that the police were upon him, had stuffed them down the receptacle made
in the door for the fall of the window.

But the fate of Valcarm and of his papers is at the present moment not of so much moment to
us as is that of Linda Tressel. Doña Manolita mimicked Dona
Luz in dress and hairstyle, and followed or where the name came. Dona said Manolita that was
it for Dona Luz which for the gallants of the swashbuckling comedy footman funny, and recalling
that several of the best comedies this lackey was called Moth, Dona Luz said: "Child, I am your
Moth."

Respect to D. Acisclo thought Dona Luz as her father, and not kept the former manager inquinia
the slightest, because it had raised nearly all the wealth of their elders. If The Marquis had
insisted on ruining what it sinned D. Acisclo? With some moral convoluted, Don Acisclo could not
know, maybe he saved the interests of the marquis perhaps would have done last another few years
the splendor of the house, but this request in those places was to order popcorn in the Gulf. Enough,
then, Dona Luz, to be profoundly grateful to D. Acisclo, the firm persuasion that entertained, that
any manager with another from there, the ruin of his father had been ten years earlier, and she
had not raised as an elegant lady, within the well-being, with English governess, and all care
due. God knows how it was raised and what it would have been ruined if the marquis berrenchín and
dies, leaving her an orphan aged five years and not fifteen.

Well liked Luz D. Acisclo.

Sympathized with their activity, with a love of work and other virtues that he shone.

For the good-looking, Dona Luz had lived, without any attempt at going home, home Don Acisclo,
until he was twenty. From then on, he tried several Sometimes going to live alone at home, but
D. Acisclo held her gently and lovingly. Gave him to understand that it would be a sadness
only after getting used to his company, and called also, somewhat grotesquely, what they say,
arguing that was a girl and Dona Luz was not walking free as old
maid, who was good and severe, if lived alone, had to say it was a
cow's bell.

Doña Luz, far from being offended, laughed at this comparison ungallant,
and continued to live in the home of former manager.

On the other hand, the independence of Dona Luz was perfect.

Three or four rooms belonged to him alone in the house, and were furnished with most exquisite taste.
They did not come from the four daily but close friends and referrals: Joan the Maid, one of the
body of the house, which was cleaning under the supervision of Juana, in order not to break an
object of art or fine furniture, and, finally, other three beings, who were also semi - close Dona
Luz, and who completed or closed their circle family. Were these three beings Thomas the old
servant, and as his squire and companion when she went on horseback Uncle Blas, overseer of
the lady, who was meant to care property, which she ran and were
improving to the point where it produced about 20,000 rs. in some
years of good harvest, and the greyhound Palomo, white giant in its
class, and terrible genius to whom it seemed to him that upset or
offended her love, with which it was all gentleness, meekness and
gentleness.

In addition to the normal society, not Dona Luz refused to attend other more broadly based. The
sons, daughters, daughters and sons of D. Acisclo, with flooding and numerous offspring, their
consuegro and Consuegra, godfathers and godmothers, formed a crowd
with whom it was necessary to switch.

All they were insignificant and not very funny, they were neither bad nor good, and Dona Luz
was miracles of diplomacy in order not to treat and not anger them much either.

In the days of the holy birthday of each individual to the family
of D. Acisclo had patriarchal food in the house, and dance fuss.

Luz excuse not to attend such functions, and almost always right
to leave on all of your kindness and joy.

-V-

Dona friendship Manolita

Dona
Luz's life was, however, so regular, so monotonous, so no accidents
to differentiate few days from other days, who had spent years, and
in memory of her was as a dream shooting, where everything was confused.

This

is for any spell of peace. For Dona Luz still had more charm.

The agitated his mind with thoughts, desires or their will or passions,
it was strange the world around her, coming from an ideal world, where
no space or time.

So that while Dona Luz, not distinguished in this from other men,
not thought or felt all at once, as the causes of his thinking and
his deep feeling were not marked point on our planet, and time marked
on the timeline, effects are also subtracted laws of succession and
the place and it seemed that they were given in a lifetime move.

 At seven there came another little carriage up to the
door, and before her name could be announced, Madame Staubach was standing in Fanny Bogen's
parlour. "Oh, my child!" she said. "Oh, my child, may God in His mercy forgive my child!" Linda
cowered in a corner of the sofa and did not speak.

"She hasn't done anything in the least wrong," said Fanny; "nothing on earth. You were going
to make her marry a man she hated, and so she came away. If father had done the same to me,
I wouldn't have stayed an hour." Linda still cowered on the sofa, and was still speechless.

Madame Staubach, when she heard this defence of her niece, was hardly pushed to know in what
way it was her duty to answer it. It would be very expedient, of course, that some story should
be told for Linda which might save her from the ill report of all the world,--that some excuse
should be made which might now, instantly, remove from Linda's name the blight which would
make her otherwise to be a thing scorned, defamed, useless, and hideous; but the truth was
the truth, and even to save her child from infamy Madame Staubach would not listen to a lie
without refuting it. The punishment of Linda's infamy had been deserved, and it was right that
it should be endured. Hereafter, as facts came to disclose themselves, it would be for Peter
Steinmarc to say whether he would take such a woman for his wife; but whether he took her or
whether he rejected her, it could not be well that Linda should be screened by a lie from any
part of the punishment which she had deserved. Let her go seven times seven through the fire,
if by such suffering there might yet be a chance for her poor desolate half-withered soul.

"Done nothing wrong, Fanny Heisse!" said Madame Staubach, who, in spite of her great fatigue,
was still standing in the middle of the room. "Do you say so, who have become the wife of an
honest God-fearing man?"

But Fanny was determined that she would not be put down in her own house by Madame Staubach.
"It doesn't matter whose wife I am," she said, "and I am sure Max will say the same as I do.
She hasn't done anything wrong. She made up her mind to come away because she wouldn't marry
Peter Steinmarc. She came here in company with her own young man, as I used to come with Max.
And as soon as she got here she sent word up to us, and here she is. If there's anything very
wicked in that, I'm not religious enough to understand it. But I tell you what I can understand,
Madame Staubach,--there is nothing on earth so horribly wicked as trying to make a girl marry
a man whom she loathes, and hates, and detests, and abominates. There, Madame Staubach; that's
what I've got to say; and now I hope you'll stop and have supper with Max and Linda and me."

Linda felt herself to be blushing in the darkness of her corner as she heard this excuse for
her conduct. No; she had not made the journey to Augsburg with Ludovic in such fashion as Fanny
had, perhaps more than once, travelled the same route with her present husband. Fanny had not
come by night, without her father's knowledge, had not escaped out of a window; nor had Fanny
come with any such purpose as had been hers. There was no salve to her conscience in all this,
though she felt very grateful to her friend, who was fighting her battle for her.

"It is not right that I should argue the matter with you," said Madame Staubach, with some
touch of true dignity. "Alas, I know that which I know. Perhaps you will allow me to say a
word in privacy to this unfortunate child."

But Max Bogen had not paid his wife a false compliment for cleverness. She perceived at once
that the longer this interview between the aunt and her niece could be delayed,--the longer
that it could be delayed, now that they were in each other's company,--the lighter would be
the storm on Linda's head when it did come. "After supper, Madame Staubach; Linda wants her
supper; don't you, my pet?" Linda answered nothing. She could not even look up, so as to meet
the glance of her aunt's eyes. But Fanny Bogen succeeded in arranging things after her own
fashion. She would not leave the room, though in sooth her presence at the preparation of the
supper might have been useful. It came to be understood that Madame Staubach was to sleep at
the lawyer's house, and great changes were made in order that the aunt and niece might not
be put in the same room. Early in the morning they were to return together to Nuremberg, and
then Linda's short hour of comfort would be over.

She had hardly as yet spoken a word to her aunt when Fanny left them in the carriage together.
"There were three or four others there," said Fanny to her husband, "and she won't have much
said to her before she gets home."

"But when she is at home!" Fanny only shrugged her shoulders. "The truth is, you know," said
Max, "that it was not at all the proper sort of thing to do!"

"And who does the proper sort of thing?"

"You do, my dear."

"And wouldn't you have run away with me if father had wanted me to marry some nasty old fellow
who cares for nothing but his pipe and his beer? If you hadn't, I'd never have spoken to you
again." 

Hence the great embarrassment in which they were Dona Luz and her lover barely said they wanted. Doña
Luz, especially, did not know what to do. He felt ashamed of what he said, wanted away from the
gaze of the man, and not resolved to flee, fearing that his escape seemed childish ridiculous artifice
or unbecoming of a woman of twenty years.

Fortunately, Mrs. Manolita instinctively sensed that difficult situation,
and delivered it Suddenly her friend, appearing again in the parlor.

And, later, over lunch, in the midst of the guests, in view of D. Acisclo and Fr Henry, and after
having calmed down and recovered from the first emotion, spoke Dona Luz D. Jaime with rest, he
found ready for anything, and as she had no father or mother who
view, neither he nor I had any, both determined to marry without noise
or unit, and most soon as possible.

In order not to part at once, without anyone miss the prolongation
of his stay in that place, D. Jaime said he had one more week to see
if he bought the olive grove was in treatment.

-XV-

First trace
of a marriage romance

Is difficult to have anything hidden in a small
town.

All we know at once, even if the amount not known.

D. The proposed wedding Jaime and Doña Luz, who knew nothing mattered,
no wonder, then, that news reached the point at all in Villafría.

The arrest of D. Jaime course was attributed to its true motive, and
no one tried but excuse the purchase of the olive.

One case of fulminant and especially love that so improvised consortium, gave much to say, comment
and gossip.

In places in Andalusia, there is nothing awe as much as a sudden wedding. For everything there
is often made with great pause. Nowhere is less acceptable English saying that the time is money.
Nowhere is used more often and in practical life sentence castiza Spanish and archives to make
time, that is, of losing, of expenditure, we weigh and bored his walk slow and quiet infinity.
But where it is most extreme in Andalusia make time is in dating. Contributes to this, on the
one hand, prudence, recognizing the serious transcendental marriage, continually counsels us: before
you get married, look what you do. It contributes much more, on the other hand, this look at
what you do is great fun; is the best way to kill or do time, it is a pleasant occupation, who
provided has none, and no sooner run out of her house.

Hence, no doubt, endless engagements of my land, which also are given finest examples of strong
evidence that can record the stories of love. Dating should begin when the bridegroom is with
Dominie learning Latin, passed through humanities, law or medicine, and do not end in marriage
to the groom is a judge of first instance or attending physician. During this time, the couple
are written when are absent, and when they are in the same town, are in mass in the morning,
they become to see two or three more times during the day, often stripping the kettle during
the siesta, return to be in the afternoon at the mall, go to the same gatherings from eight to eleven
at night and now, after dinner, they repeat verse and talk through the bars, and there are nights
when are stripping the kettle again, and chewing iron to dawn in East Aurora of the fingers
of pink.

In proof of this true account antequerano boyfriend, who finally had to marry after eight years
of being boyfriend and that he had no sooner married, looked troubled and not knowing what to
do with their time. In another boyfriend, a native of Carcabuey, I have heard also have at
WITNESS ingrained is the idea that marriage requires a lot of calm before take out his future mother,
considering that her daughter had thirteen years of talking with that boyfriend, without reaching
him to ask, and she was going ajando and fading a bit, resolved to ask the groom what brought
intentions. And having armed resolution asked the question, the boyfriend answered very surprised
and disappointed it is not - save me God, lady!

Is this dagger rogue?

Prevail and even private as healthy Villafría doctrines about the
longevity of engagements, and will pay the reader wonder that produce
this outburst, that impremeditación that Dona Luz was decided.

-
This is a bullet - said one.

- Come on - said another - everything
is well understood: if she claimed he did not think of marrying, was
for lavatories, because he despised the locals, but just arrived here
by a dandy court and fell on him and caught him, like a spider traps
a fly.

The spurned suitors, once carried everything with resignation, assuming The console, which Dona
Luz disdain born of his love for God and heaven, where Dona Luz knew
they liked both the land and another man like them, forgave either,
and decried its lightness.

- It has been thrown into the arms of
first come - cried - no love, no estimate, because neither love nor
the estimate are born so suddenly.

La has seduced the desire to go to shine the Madriles.

To buñolera which put Roma to fry and sell their donuts at the corner of the house Don Acisclo,
gypsy very judgmental, called Watermark, more famous for its judgments
that the very same Peter Lombardo said ironically:

- Dona Luz is
an oriental pearl, and pearl fisherman does not notice, or if it is
or is not; what it claims is that the fish and take a look at the
Oclaye Olen.

Not a few of such gossip reached the ears of Dona Luz, but did not
make a dent in your heart.

Nothing was held out an echo in their clean and quiet conscience. Dona Light was a woman and had
a soul and felt need for love. His love, no visible object and human as had been dormant until
then. A worthy object offered to end its eyes, and Dona Luz point
he devoted all his love.

Every day, every hour that passed, said more Dona Luz on the belief that Don Jaime deserved. The
same love of D. Jaime, the decision that he had offered his hand
to her, helpless, orphan and poor, was the best guarantee and safer.

As she got married and wanted to go to be in Madrid, laughed scornfully Dona Luz to hear it.
Luz had decided not to go to Madrid while he could not go: stay Villafría living in his ancestral
home, have there its center, his headquarters, nest, caring from there assets and cash them
improve and grow; drown in his soul all jealous propensity; and, not consent, but encourage her
husband to be alone in the capital, to shine Congress of Deputies, in political struggles and
military affairs.

Luz wanted Vitoria imitate this to Colonna, and wait for their hero, their sun, their lover, when
he came to rest at the rustic asylum, her love spells had to fill and delight. I did not want,
in short, be heavy burden for him in Madrid, but rest, refuge, comfort holy and sweet, in that
village.

In his loving conversations with D. Jaime, Dona Luz revolved around his plan. He wanted to glory
power, influence at court, and this interspersed with a series of idylls in Villafría where she
had to wait for him, as Armida charity, every time he came to rest in his arms, covered with fresh
laurels. Don Jaime was struggling because Dona Luz had to go to Madrid with him; Dona Luz but
hated it with so great obstinacy, that D. Jaime had to compromise,
agreeing that for now, that is, until they were both much richer,
Dona Luz continue residing in Villafría.

All this was fixed so poetic that the reader, as you know, not to censor Dona Censored light as the
people of his place, but in any case, on the contrary: for left rare and pride, because he preferred
to live many months of the year separated from her husband to be in Madrid perpetual cause prosaic
and economic difficulties, enough to kill the love more robust.

Doña Luz, thus firmly drawn by his own hand and the future of his life, he saw in his soul,
but reasons for satisfaction and contentment. His inner flourished. The sweet yearning being a wife
and mother moved with forebodings of ineffable tenderness. An interior light light up his
mind, beatified, and it appeared that seeps to the outside, radiated his face and gave her beautiful
body greater beauty than ever.

And the fields are covered in the early spring bloom and the sky turns purple and gold when
the sun's out, and then showed Dona Luz more graceful and glowing.

His joy was so noble, so generous and so trusting, and this joy divine expression lent itself
to her figure was so gentle sympathetic lucky that the censorship was unarmed out, and look,
had to bless all mankind.

In his mind was mostly bright and cheerful. There was only back in the depths, a small corner
where the light does not penetrate well, and where, in a confused way, was like a seed, barely
perceptible as a seed of anger and unrest.

Doña Luz, either inadvertently aware of it, by instinct savior, I tried to pull that seed,
to drown him germ, so that it does not come from the poisonous grass.

Luz thought about his relationship with P. anomalous Enrique, in that friendship blaze at the
affection that had always shown.

Of course for Dona Luz it could not even remotely have anything in common with love. But, therefore,
his affection for the Father should remain, and demonstrations of this affection should not
cease or mitigated, otherwise that she was inclined to believe they were the very essence of
what was in his soul future husband, who had acted as fickle and inconstant, that one had not
the free, the intact, never given to anyone who treasured caring heart, but something or much
of what went before and quitádoselo given to another course.

So, strove Dona Luz, but in vain, as they are, as always, gentle and
loving with P. Enrique.

And, as he saw he could not, as he saw it from touching your soul with the Father, and by the
word, and by the look, whereas before it seemed that sprouted heat and magnetic fire, then it
was ice, he explained assuming no spirit or force in the human hearts for several affections, and
that where one prevails, the other falls and fainting, even of very different social and nature.

The
soul of Father went to Dona Luz always clear, transparent and impenetrable, like the sea deep
that encircles and embraces the Andalusian coast.

The sun passes through many layers of water and all so full of clarity, but there in the depths,
lost and obscures the view, including iris, reflexes, sunflowers and lightning Argentina, and
nothing distinguishes accurately and steadily. The Father had not changed in appearance at
least. The same serenity as sweetly as ever. Not alter his voice to speak of D. Nor Jaime D.
Jaime. In speaking with Dona Luz, showed Father loving former benevolence. Not a word which even
remotely felt a touch of irony, of pique or spite.

"Either the father has on himself an unlikely domain - Dona Luz thought
- or not loved me ever.

Would see that the suspected Manuela, I heard as full of malicious injury villainy had been at
the bottom of my creation ridiculous vanity, which, deepening the issue well, I was flattered instead
of angry. No, no doubt: the good of P. Henry believes me, I have in high regard, thanks to his great
indulgence, I want as a neighbor of choice, but everything else is absurd dream, my imagination
is presumed. And it's better that way. "

And Dona Luz end with these words, she sighed to vent, as people take off serious burden.

At other times, even more anxious to unload their conscience, to decline all responsibility, although
the above reasoning was proven to himself that there was nothing disgusting to leave responsibly,
Dona Luz was fading in his memory all favors I had done the Father was taking everything worth
and significance to the show of affection had given him, and it was reducing everything to
minor proportions of a cold friendship and severe, as it can and must mediate between a student
and a teacher, scaring himself or removing any troublesome memories, false in its feel, even
the slightest flirtation unconscious on her part.

Meanwhile, the days passed and was approaching wedding, which was to be without any equipment.

Don Pepe Acisclo and Güeto, however, had made a short trip to Seville
to buy gifts the bride, each according to his abilities.

D. The Acisclo was magnificent. It consisted of a pair of earrings
and a diamond brooch, that cost him two thousand dollars.

Pepe The Ghetto was a bracelet that cost ten thousand.

Don Jaime Madrid had instructed some finery and jewels, which should arrive any day.

Don Jaime lives showed impatience, and seemed very much in love, and
tried to rush the wedding.

While sighed closer the day, more tender were the parties, their intimate
conversations were endless, went out riding together, Dona Luz in
his, and D. Jaime in another very good and beautiful, the property
of D. Acisclo, and also went for a walk on foot, accompanied by Dona
Manolita very boasts of being the mediator in this happy partnership.

Fr Henry was always going to dine with D. Acisclo, but claiming that he had to write or to
study, stayed to lunch at his house, where his servant prepared and
served Ramon a frugal breakfast.

Also the gathering of night, or have already retired earlier than
usual, or as he withdrew the Father, but this was not surprising.

Don Pepe Güeto Acisclo and gave the example. Certainly the whispered conversation of the couple
and their involuntary abstraction of all uninvited onlookers something else.

The doctor D. Anselmo came and went, staying briefly at the meeting. No longer disputed and brings
out their philosophies, because Dona Luz paid no attention to anything but D. Jaime.
It was then that the gathering, so busy before, was almost always
square.

Don Acisclo, D. Anselmo, Pepe and Father Güeto scuttled,
and the couple were alone, in his eternal Smalltalk, as I said Dona
Manolita; it, which was resigned to do with taste role of owner, the
Greyhound Palomo, was put at the feet of D. Jaime, who had taken much
love to know instinctively much she was his mistress, and sometimes
the priest D. Michael, who whispers of the lovers produce the same
effect as shouting and speeches of philosophers, leaving you pleasantly
asleep, perhaps dreaming of the great role he played to rejoice in
that drama, when the couple cast forth blessings. On such a matter as this
Madame Staubach could not be other than relentless. Even while Linda was kneeling at her feet
convulsed with sobs, she told the poor girl, with all the severity of language which she could
use, of the vileness of the iniquity of that night's proceedings. Linda had been false to her
friend, false to her vows, false to her God, immodest, unclean, had sinned against all the
laws by which women bind themselves together for good conduct,--had in fact become a castaway
in very deed. There was nothing that a female could do more vile, more loathsome than that
which Linda had done. Madame Staubach believed that the time had come in which it would be
wicked to spare, and she did not spare. Linda grovelled at her feet, and could only pray that
God might take her to Himself at once. "He will never take you; never, never, never," said
Madame Staubach; "Satan will have you for his own, and all my prayers will be of no avail."

There were two days such as this, and Linda was still alive and still bore it. On the third
day, which was the fifth after her return from Augsburg, Herr Molk came to her, and at his
own request was alone with her. He did not vituperate her as her aunt had done, nor did he
express any special personal horror at her sin; but he insisted very plainly on the position
which she had made for herself. "You see, my dear, the only thing for you is to be married
out of hand at once, and then nobody will say anything about it. And what is the difference
if he is a little old? girls forget to think about that after a month or two; and then, you
see, it will put an end to all your troubles;--to all your troubles." Such were the arguments
of Herr Molk; and it must be acknowledged that such arguments were not lacking in strength,
nor were they altogether without truth. The little story of Linda's journey to Augsburg had
been told throughout the city, and there were not wanting many who said that Peter Steinmarc
must be a very good-natured man indeed, if, after all that had passed, he would still accept
Linda Tressel as his wife. "You should remember all that of course, my dear," said Herr Molk.

How was it possible that Linda should stand alone against such influence as had been brought
to bear against her? She was quite alone, for she would not admit of any intimacy with Tetchen.
She would hardly speak to the old woman. She was quite aware that Tetchen had arranged with
Ludovic the manner of her elopement; and though she felt no anger with him, still she was angry
with the servant whose duplicity had helped to bring about the present misery. Had she not
fled with her lover she might then,--so she thought now,--have held her ground against her
aunt and against Peter. As things had gone with her since, such obstinacy had become impossible
to her. On the morning of the seventh day she bowed her head, and though she did not speak,
she gave her aunt to understand that she had yielded. "We will begin to purchase what may be
necessary to-morrow," said Madame Staubach.

But even now she had not made up her mind that she would in truth marry the man. She had simply
found it again impossible to say that she would not do so. There was still a chance of escape.
She might die, for instance! Or she might run away again. If she did that, surely the man would
persecute her no further. Or at the last moment she might stolidly decline to move; she might
refuse to stand on her legs before the altar. She might be as a dead thing even though she
were alive,--as a thing dead and speechless. Oh! if she could only be without ears to hear
those terrible words which her aunt would say to her! And then there came another scheme into
her mind. She would make one great personal appeal to Steinmarc's feelings as a man. If she
implored him not to make her his wife, kneeling before him, submitting herself to him, preferring
to him with all her earnestness this one great prayer, surely he would not persevere!

Hitherto, since her return from Augsburg, Peter had done very little to press his own suit.
She had again had her hand placed in his since she had yielded, and had accepted as a present
from him a great glass brooch which to her eyes was the ugliest thing in the guise of a trinket
which the world of vanity had ever seen. She had not been a moment in his company without her
aunt's presence, and there had not been the slightest allusion made by him to her elopement.
Peter had considered that such allusion had better come after marriage when his power would,
as he thought, be consolidated. He was surprised when he was told, early in the morning after
that second hand-pledging, by Linda herself that she wanted to see him. Linda came to his door
and made her request in person. Of course he was delighted to welcome his future bride to his
own apartment, and begged her with as soft a smile as he could assume to seat herself in his
own arm-chair. She took a humbler seat, however, and motioned to him to take that to which
he was accustomed. He looked at her as he did so, and perceived that the very nature of her
face was changed. She had lost the plumpness of her cheeks, she had lost the fresh colour of
her youth, she had lost much of her prettiness. But her eyes were brighter than ever they had
been, and there was something in their expression which almost made Peter uneasy. Though she
had lost so much of her prettiness, he was not on that account moved to doubt the value of
his matrimonial prize; but there did come across his mind an idea that those eyes might perhaps
bring with them some discomfort into his household. "I am very glad to see you, Linda," he
said. "It is very good of you to come to me here. Is there anything I can do for you?"

"There is one thing, Peter Steinmarc, that you can do for me."

"What is that, my dear?"

"Let me alone." As she spoke she clenched her small fist and brought it down with some energy
on the table that was close to her. She looked into his face as she did so, and his eyes quailed
before her glance. Then she repeated her demand. "Let me alone."

"I do not know what you mean, Linda. Of course you are going to be my wife now."

"I do not wish to be your wife. You know that; and if you are a man you will not force me."
She had intended to be gentle with him, to entreat him, to win him by humility and softness,
and to take his hand, and even kiss it if he would be good to her. But there was so much of
tragedy in her heart, and such an earnestness of purpose in her mind, that she could not be
gentle. As she spoke it seemed to him that she was threatening him.

"It is all settled, Linda. It cannot be changed now."

"It can be changed. It must be changed. Tell her that I am not good enough. You need not fear
her. And if you will say so, I will never be angry with you for the word. I will bless you for it."

"But, Linda, you did nothing so very much amiss;--did you?" Then there came across her mind
an idea that she would lie to him, and degrade herself with a double disgrace. But she hesitated,
and was not actress enough to carry on the part. He winked at her as he continued to speak.
"I know," he said. "It was just a foolish business, but no worse than that."

Oh heavens, how she hated him! She could have stabbed him to the heart that moment, had the
weapon been there, and had she possessed the physical energy necessary for such an enterprise.
He was a thing to her so foul that all her feminine nature recoiled from the closeness of his
presence, and her flesh crept as she felt that the same atmosphere encompassed them. And this
man was to be her husband! She must speak to him, speak out, speak very plainly. Could it be
possible that a man should wish to take a woman to his bosom who had told him to his face that
he was loathed? "Peter," she said, "I am sure that you don't think that I love you."

"I don't see why you shouldn't, Linda."

"I do not;--not the least; I can promise you that. And I never shall;--never. Think what it
would be to have a wife who doesn't love you a bit. Would not that be bad?"

"Oh, but you will."

"Never! Don't you know that I love somebody else very dearly?" On hearing this there came something
of darkness upon Peter's brow,--something which indicated that he had been touched. Linda understood
it all. "But I will never speak to him again, never see him, if you will let me alone."

"See him, Linda! He is in prison, and will be sent to the quarries to work. He will never be
a free man again. Ha! ha! I need not fear him, my dear."

"But you shall fear me. Yes; I will lead you such a life! Peter Steinmarc, I will make you
rue the day you first saw me. You shall wish that you were at the quarries yourself. I will
disgrace you, and make your name infamous. I will waste everything that you have. There is
nothing so bad I will not do to punish you. Yes; you may look at me, but I will. Do you think
that you are to trample me under foot, and that I will not have my revenge? You said it was
a foolish business that I did. I will make it worse than foolish." He stood with his hands
in the pockets of his broad flaps, looking at her, not knowing how to answer her. He was no
coward,--not such a coward as to be intimidated at the moment by the girl's violence. And being
now thoroughly angry, her words had not worked upon him as she had intended that they should
work. His desire was to conquer her and get the best of her; but his thoughts worked slowly,
and he did not know how to answer her. "Well, what do you say to me? If you will let me escape,
I will always be your friend."

"I will not let you escape," he said.

"And you expect that I shall be your wife?"

"I do expect it."

"I shall die first; yes;--die first. To be your wife! Oh, there is not a beggar in the streets
of Nuremberg whom I would not sooner take for my husband." She paused, but again he was at
a loss for words. "Come, Peter, think of it. Do not drive a poor weak girl to desperation.
I have been very unhappy,--very; you do not know how unhappy I have been. Do not make it worse
for me." Then the chord which had been strung so tightly was broken asunder. Her strength failed
her, and she burst into tears.

"I will make you pay dearly for all this one of these days, fraulein," said Peter, as, with
his hands still in his pockets, he left the room. She watched him as he creaked down-stairs,
and went into her aunt's apartments. For a moment she felt disposed to go and confront him
there before her aunt. Together, the two of them, could not force her to marry him. But her
courage failed her. Though she could face Peter Steinmarc without flinching, she feared the
words which her aunt could say to her. She had not scrupled to threaten Steinmarc with her
own disgrace, but she could not endure to be told by her aunt that she was degraded.

CHAPTER XIV

Peter Steinmarc, when he went into Madame Staubach's parlour, found that lady on her knees
in prayer. He had entered the room without notice, having been urged to this unwonted impetuosity
by the severity of the provocation which he had received. Madame Staubach raised her head;
but when she saw him she did not rise. He stood there for some seconds looking at her, expecting
her to get up and greet him; but when he found that such was not her purpose, he turned angrily
on his heel, and went out of the house, up to his office in the town-hall. His services were
not of much service to the city on that day,--neither on that day nor on the two following
days. He was using all his mental faculties in endeavouring to decide what it might be best
for him to do in the present emergency. The red house was a chattel of great value in Nuremberg,--a
thing very desirable,--the possession of which Peter himself did desire with all his heart.
But then, even in regard to the house, it was not to be arranged that Peter was to become the
sole and immediate possessor of it on his marriage. Madame Staubach was to live there, and
during her life the prize would be but a half-and-half possession. Madame Staubach was younger
than himself; and though he had once thought of marrying her, he was not sure that he was now
desirous of living in the same house with her for the remainder of his life. He had wished
to marry Linda Tressel, because she was young, and was acknowledged to be a pretty girl; and
he still wished to marry her, if not now for these reasons, still for others which were quite
as potent. He wanted to be her master, to get the better of her, to punish her for her disdain
of him, and to bring her to his feet. But he was not a man so carried away by anger or by a
spirit of revenge as to be altogether indifferent to his own future happiness. There had already
been some among his fellow-citizens, or perhaps citizenesses, kind enough to compliment him
on his good-nature. He had been asked whether Linda Tressel had told him all about her little
trip to Augsburg, and whether he intended to ask his cousin Ludovic Valcarm to come to his
wedding. And now Linda herself had said things to him which made him doubt whether she was
fit to be the wife of a man so respectable and so respected as himself. And were she to do
those things which she threatened, where would he be then? All the town would laugh at him,
and he would be reduced to live for the remainder of his days in the sole company of Madame
Staubach as the result of his enterprise. He was sufficiently desirous of being revenged on
Linda, but he was a cautious man, and began to think that he might buy even that pleasure too
dear. Touch the men of State anticipate,
if they want to avert the democratic revolution, preventing it to peaceful reform. The day that one
or the other is carried out, Spain is a great and glorious nationality, first order in the
game of civilization!

NOTES:

[1] Later Paris was enlarged, extending to the circular line of fortifications.

[2] The cathedral, built on the same site of a dating from the late
sixth century, was begun by King Ferdinand III in the year 1227 and
completed in its main mass in 1493.

Castilian has 404 feet long, 204 high latitude and 116 in the nave.
Several of the side chapels are subsequent to 1493.

[3] Throughout
the country may well fit 500.000 souls. Is a man of your standing to be turned aside by a few idle words from a young girl?"

"But she told me-- You can't understand what she told me. She's been away with this young fellow
once, and she said as much as that she'd go again."

"Pshaw! you haven't had to do with women as I have, or you would understand them better. Of
course a young girl likes to have her little romance. But when a girl has been well brought
up,--and there is no better bringing up than what Linda Tressel has had,--marriage steadies
them directly. Think of the position you'll have in the city when the house belongs to yourself."

Peter, when he left the magistrate, was still tossed about by an infinity of doubts. If he
should once take the girl as his wife, he could never unmarry himself again. He could not do
so at least without trouble, disgrace, and ruinous expense. As for revenge, he thought that
he might still have a certain amount of that pleasure in repudiating his promised spouse for
her bad conduct, and in declaring to her aunt that he could not bring himself to make a wife
of a woman who had first disgraced herself, and then absolutely taken glory in her disgrace.
As he went along from Herr Molk's house towards the island, taking a somewhat long path by
the Rothe Ross where he refreshed himself, and down the Carls Strasse, and by the Church of
St. Lawrence, round which he walked twice, looking up to the tower for inspiration,--he told
himself that circumstances had been most cruel to him. He complained bitterly of his misfortune.
If he refused to marry Linda he must leave the red house altogether, and would, of course,
be ridiculed for his attempt at matrimony; and if he did marry her-- Then, as far as he could
see, there would be the very mischief. He pitied himself with an exceedingly strong compassion,
because of the unmerited hardness of his position. It was very dark when he got to the narrow
passage leading to the house along the river, and when there, in the narrowest and darkest
part of the passage, whom should he meet coming from Madame Staubach's house,--coming from
Linda's house, for the passage led from the red house only,--but Ludovic Valcarm his cousin?

"What, uncle Peter?" said Ludovic, assuming a name which he had sometimes used in old days
when he had wished to be impertinent to his relative. However, once Dona Rosalia up leaving them alone the tobacconist, Miguel
took her hand and almost forcibly kissed. Maxi was red and failed to say:

- Oh, my God! ...

Again finding himself whispered talk shows:

- I have to ask V. a
favor, Maxi.

- What is it?

- That gives me V. a lock of her hair.

The girl looked up in surprise.

- Did I give it V? - Repeated staring boldly.

Maxi looked down by an affirmative sign.

But no deviation one day and after these two, and three, and showed no signs of fulfilling its
promise. Miguel asked about details: she smiled without answering. Then the angry young man did
and avoided in turn to meet her. Maximina began to throw looks sad
and shy watching laughing inside.

Finally, one night on his own initiative, it came to sit beside him.

Our young man was adamant, he would not talk; affected take part
very active in sets of clothes.

Then the poor girl said weakly:

- Take V.

Miguel did not hear.

- Take V. - repeated a little louder.

As he turned he saw was holding a white piece of paper. Realized it was the lock of hair and
took him while pressing his fingers tenderly.

- Thanks, Maxi - he said .-- It touched accent V. very good, and every day ...

Before I could conclude, she stood up, came into the house. Miguel was savoring a sweet happiness
that had hitherto never liked, that of being loved that way so naive
and so pure.

My heart was filled with gentle feelings ineffable tenderness invaded
his soul, and said, "I do not want this child I too?

Why have not to tell?

Shaken by this sudden desire, rose from his chair and came home with
Maximina hoping to find and express what I felt at that time.

He walked in darkness room, dining room and hallway, calling softly,
but could not find it.

He looked to the kitchen and saw in it only to the taciturn servant
peeling potatoes.

It must have gone to his room, he said, and went down the ladder
sadly returned to the gathering, but crossing in front of the door
of the tobacconist who was dark, he decided to put the head in and
say:

- Maxi.

- What? - Answered a muffled voice.

- Oh, picarilla!

Is V. here?

And was introduced in the store.

- Where do you do?

- Here.

- Deme V. hand.

- Why, to kiss?

I will not, is V. very bad.

Miguel laughed, repressing it so you will not be overheard.

- No, baby, is to know where V. nothing more.

He sat beside her on a low chair.

- Why has escaped V. of the party?

-
And V. why looking for me?

- To tell it to V. one thing.

- What
is it?

--... That I wanted to V. very - passionate accent said, holding
her hand.

The girl was silent.

- And V. I will also wanting to me a little, is not it?

Neither answered.

- Come on, tell me V. yes ... even lie.

- I do not tell lies - said
the girl with a sweet voice.

- So, I do not want? ...

- Not saying
that.

Miguel enthusiastically embraced.

- Well I love you I love
you so beautiful and how good you are ...

Maximina to feel young
arms began to shake strongly.

- V. Let go! V. God release me!

-
Do I want you? Do you want?

- V. Let go, by God!

- No, tell me you
love me.

- Yes, I love him, love him; V. Let go!

The young man kissed
her passionately on the lips and let her escape to her room. He turned
to the party.

She was in this state when Tetchen crept up to her room, on that evening on which Peter had
been with Herr Molk. "Fraulein," said Tetchen, "you are very unkind to me."

"Never mind," said Linda, not looking up into the woman's face.

"I have done everything in my power for you, as though you had been my own."

"I am not your own. I don't want you to do anything for me."

"I love you dearly, and I love him,--Ludovic. Have I not done everything in my power to save
you from the man you hate?"

"You made me go off with him in the night, like a--like a--! Oh, Tetchen, was that treating
me as though I had been your own? Would you have done that for your own child?"

"Why not,--if you are to be his wife?"

"Tetchen, you have made me hate you, and you have made me hate myself. If I had not done that,
I should not be such a coward. Go away. I do not want to speak to you."

Then the old woman came close up to Linda, and stood for a moment leaning over her. Linda took
no notice of her, but continued by a certain tremulous shaking of her knee to show how strongly
she was moved. "My darling," said Tetchen, "why should you send away from you those who love you?"

"Nobody loves me," said Linda.

"I love you,--and Ludovic loves you."

"That is of no use,--of none at all. I do not wish to hear his name again. It was not his fault,
but he has disgraced me. It was my own fault,--and yours."

"Linda, he is in the house now."

"Who--Ludovic?"

"Yes; Ludovic Valcarm."

"In the house? How did he escape?"

"They could do nothing to him. They let him go. They were obliged to let him go."

Then Linda got up from her seat, and stood for a minute with her eyes fixed upon the old woman's
face, thinking what step she had better take. In the confusion of her mind, and in the state
to which she had been reduced, there was no idea left with her that it might yet be possible
that she would become the wife of Ludovic Valcarm, and live as such the life of a respectable
woman. She had taught herself to acknowledge that her elopement with him had made that quite
impossible;--that by what they had done they had both put themselves beyond the pale of such
gentle mercy. Such evil had come to her from her secret interviews with this man who had become
her lover almost without her own acquiescence, that she dreaded him even though she loved him.
The remembrance of the night she had passed with him, partly in the warehouse and partly in
the railway train, had nothing in it of the sweetness of love, to make her thoughts of it acceptable
to her. This girl was so pure at heart, was by her own feelings so prone to virtue, that she
looked back upon what she had done with abhorrence. Whether she had sinned or not, she hated
what she had done as though it had been sinful; and now, when she was told that Ludovic Valcarm
was again in the house, she recoiled from the idea of meeting him. On the former occasions
of his coming to her, a choice had hardly been allowed to her whether she would see him or
not. He had been with her before she had had time to fly from him. Now she had a moment for
thought,--a moment in which she could ask herself whether it would be good for her to place
herself again in his hands. She said that it would not be good, and she walked steadily down
to her aunt's parlour. "Aunt Charlotte," she said, "Ludovic Valcarm is in the house."

"In this house,--again!" exclaimed Madame Staubach. Linda, having made her statement, said
not a word further. Though she had felt herself compelled to turn informant against her lover,
and by implication against Tetchen, her lover's accomplice, nevertheless she despised herself
for what she was doing. She did not expect to soften her aunt by her conduct, or in any way
to mitigate the rigour of her own sufferings. Her clandestine meetings with Ludovic had brought
with them so much of pain and shame, that she had resolved almost by instinct to avoid another.
But having taken this step to avoid it, she had nothing further to say or to do. "Where is
the young man?" demanded Madame Staubach.

"Tetchen says that he is here, in the house," said Linda. Then Madame Staubach left the parlour,
and crossed into the kitchen. There, standing close to the stove and warming himself, she found
this terrible youth who had worked her so much trouble. It seemed to Madame Staubach that for
months past she had been hearing of his having been constantly in and about the house, entering
where he would and when he would, and in all those months she had never seen him. When last
she had beheld him he had been to her simply a foolish idle youth with whom his elder cousin
had been forced to quarrel. Since that, he had become to her a source of infinite terror. He
had been described to her as one guilty of crimes which, much as she hated them, produced,
even in her breast, a kind of respect for the criminal. He was a rebel of whom the magistrates
were afraid. When in prison he had had means of escaping. When arrested at Nuremberg he would
be the next day at Augsburg; when arrested at Augsburg he would be the next day at Nuremberg.
He could get in and out of the roofs of houses, and could carry away with him a young maiden.
These are deeds which always excite a certain degree of admiration in the female heart, and
Madame Staubach, though she was a Baptist, was still a female. When, therefore, she found herself
in the presence of Ludovic, she could not treat him with the indignant scorn with which she
would have received him had he intruded upon her premises before her fears of him had been
excited. "Why are you here, Ludovic Valcarm?" she said advancing hardly a step beyond the doorway.
Ludovic looked up at her with his hand resting on the table. He was not drunk, but he had been
drinking; his clothes were soiled; he was unwashed and dirty, and the appearance of the man
was that of a vagabond. "Speak to me, and tell me why you are here," said Madame Staubach.

"I have come to look for my wife," said Ludovic.

"You have no wife;--at any rate you have none here."

"Linda Tressel is my true and lawful wife, and I have come to take her away with me. She went
with me once, and now she will go again. Where is she? You're not going to keep her locked
up. It's against the law to make a young woman a prisoner."

"My niece does not wish to see you;--does not intend to see you. Go away."

But he refused to go, and threatened her, alleging that Linda Tressel was of an age which allowed
her to dispose as she pleased of her person and her property. Of course this was of no avail
with Madame Staubach, who was determined that, whatever might happen, the young man should
not force himself into Linda's presence. When Ludovic attempted to leave the kitchen, Madame
Staubach stood in the doorway and called for Tetchen. The servant, who had perched herself
on the landing, since Linda had entered the parlour, was down in a moment, and with various
winks and little signs endeavoured to induce Valcarm to leave the house. "You had better go,
or I shall call at once for my neighbour Jacob Heisse," said Madame Staubach. Then she did
call, as lustily as she was able, though in vain. Upon this Ludovic, not knowing how to proceed,
unable or unwilling to force his way further into the house in opposition to Madame Staubach,
took his departure, and as he went met Peter Steinmarc in the passage at the back of Heisse's
house. Madame Staubach was still in the kitchen asking questions of Tetchen which Tetchen did
not answer with perfect truth, when Peter appeared among them. "Madame Staubach," he said,
"that vagabond Ludovic Valcarm has just been here, in this house."

"He went away but a minute since," said Madame Staubach.

"Just so. That is exactly what I mean. This is a thing not to be borne,--not to be endured,
and shows that your niece Linda is altogether beyond the reach of any good impressions."

"Peter Steinmarc!"

"Yes, that is all very well; of course I expect that you will take her part; although, with
your high ideas of religion and all that sort of thing, it is almost unaccountable that you
should do so. As far as I am concerned there must be an end of it. I am not going to make myself
ridiculous to all Nuremberg by marrying a young woman who has no sense whatever of self-respect.
I have overlooked a great deal too much already,--a great deal too much."

"But Linda has not seen the young man. It was she herself who told me that he was here." Close this
place has some sixty olive aranzadas that his father, military as he bought with money earned
in the game. This is the only link that I know, that binds him to this district. I repeat,
therefore, I do not understand their commitment to be our congressman, but I for granted that,
once achieved its best efforts, we will return back, send us a walk, and we will not pinch nougat.
As this is precisely my golden dream, silencing the reason for not scare the minions V., I
decided to be one of them. Count V, then, with me D. choose deputy Jaime Pimentel, and believe
me your affectionate friend. "

Such was the letter D. Juan Fresco so glad the heart of D. Acisclo. It was essential that D. John
supported his business, so it would be. What we wanted was that Don Acisclo alliance, and little
he scared the convoluted reasons and ominous forecasts on which it was based and he was careful not
to trust anyone. Only occasionally, while making intemperate praise of integrity, discretion, honesty
and wisdom of D. John Fresco, said D. Acisclo it was an entity.

-
"Why says V. that D. John is an entity? - Once asked Mrs. Manolita.

-
Why do I say? - Said Don Acisclo - for it is an entity, because the
bug is more I have rarely met in my life.

-XII-

Triumph

Being or
not being, D. Juan Fresco worth a lot to D. Acisclo, which, while
more hope had, the more he toiled and sleepless because they are frustrated.

The

reports had given D. Juan about the condition of D. unhelpful Jaime
Pimentel, did not fail to mortify.

Already, however, there was no way back, and what suited for now was to defeat D. Paco, even
if this were necessary to make use of the candidate less search nougat,
more distracted and worst grower districts have all the kingdom.

Don used to throw stones Acisclo happy, and this neglect of his future deputy, for anyone else
would have been a bad, appeared sometimes bright and cheerful colors
in the eyes of his ambitious hopes.

"If the deputy does nothing - said Don Acisclo for themselves - if not keep your promises, if
not reward the labors of the voters, I will come back for them, which will give me reason to
understand for myself with the Governor of the province and to the
Minister, and be I hereby direct the master real and without that
annoying middle of diputadito.

Essentially therefore, is to win a large majority, and show that D. Paco is a junk to me.
"

To this end it was not medium D. Acisclo not employees.

The elections were to be in the fall, and during the summer lived D. Acisclo in a fever activity.
He traveled on horseback all the villages in the district, who were seven, winning votes for
his protege and removing partial D. Paco. Up to the district capital
was several times, and not unsuccessfully, with the said object.

A few do not influence voters, whom D. Paco had tied, the untied D. Acisclo gallantly exposing
their capital. Being tied up, language is understood in electoral over there, owing money to
the great elector. D. Acisclo was pompous.

Distributed at least eight thousand dollars to ten percent, with no guarantees that simple notes,
thus freeing people tied by D. Paco, with deed and money lent to fifteen.

Every voter was Villafría before voting in a place nearby, because there was Villafría table. Don
Acisclo got to take off the table of the area and to be given to
Villafria population most central and convenient, as he demonstrated.

In Villafría Acisclo Don was sure that would overturn the pot in favor
of D. Jaime.

Tilt the pot or hanging means putting all possible votes to the candidate who is wants to favor.
The voting power of those voters are are on the lists, not be a thousand miles away or in
the grave.

And yet there have been occasions when absent and even the dead voted.

The chronicles of that electoral district, when he found D. Paco, D. Acisclo I was weaving,
began to work against, out of lethargy, or better say the careless quiet repose in which their
confidence had been up there. This, of course, was that Don had to redouble Acisclo increasing
its activity. So is not stopped. His life was a relentless tissue lectures, excursions to the east or
other people, treatment and letters to write and read.

Güeto Pepe became the assistant and secretary D. Acisclo, and also writing, traveling and in conference.

Manolita
Dona Luz and another company were made, abandoned by D. Güeto Acisclo and Pepe. And both also
served as accompanist Fr Henry, only son perhaps the entire district
not intervene in the election issue.

The father had intervened only in the early days to try to dissuade D. Acisclo of to meddle in
elections, but D. Acisclo not let anyone convince anyone, and when
recognized and his nephew, retreated, paused, and did not even imply
that knew which engulfed his uncle walked welter.

To him pretty upset and laziness and lack of formality of the candidate. The candidate had promised
to visit the district, elections are coming up, and that D. Jaime
no arrived.

His opponent was already installed in the house of D. Paco, promising jobs for when return to
power, it would be soon, selling protection, and conquering minds.

Don Jaime, meanwhile, not only coming, but scarcely deigned to write,
except for D. Acisclo, and that from time to time and laconic style,
dry place.

But be that as it may, the set was already committed, to D. Acisclo was a matter of pride; and although
D. Jaime had been the devil, D. Acisclo had thrown the rest to get
triumphant.

In sum, not to tire my readers, I'll end by saying that Don finally picked Acisclo the reward
of his labors.

The elections came, and D. Acisclo won the election. Congressman Don Jaime Pimentel left by
a large majority.

Some want to imply that D. Acisclo did a thousand stage machinery and falsehoods, but nothing
could prove, and therefore should not believe.

Don Jaime Pimentel, without leaving the court, not just write a letter, with the highest calm, was
pleased to receive your certificate, almost clean, they only had two minor protests and ill-founded.

The
joy of D. Acisclo was great after the win. Lauro yours! Which shows
of power that had just given!

With an invisible candidate, careless, lazy, with an enemy so strong, so unique, so as phoenix pattern
and the representatives of the people, had achieved win and win by a landslide. After marveling
at his own capacity for policy, only acknowledged debtor D. Juan
Fresco and abundant peat bermejinos that followed on the day of the
election as a respected leader.

Throughout this long election period, the friendly relations and Dona Luz P. Enrique it was closing more
every day. To Dona Manolita, drifting of the enthusiasm of her husband, or share it, I never thought
more than in elections.

Doña Luz and father were certainly the only two people in a certain position in the whole district,
had not thought of this or the other candidate, and who had not toiled for victory any of them. 

In
the midst of political turmoil, had been found in the same withdrawal sweet home of those who promoted,
and there were talks soft and lofty, and pleasant conversations, you always learn something Dona
Luz, which was always new excellence in understanding and in the
heart of the father and the father, in turn, never failed to amaze
the clearance, sharpness, the remarkable discretion of poetic fantasy
and exquisite sensitivity its fine interlocutor.

Don Anselmo was third in the debates, although not as much, for having been too D. Acisclo very
interested in the election. And the priest Don Miguel had kept going to record to socialize,
while Father's wise dialogue and Dona Luz magnetized and enthralled him in such a way, that
within minutes of beginning to hear, he would stay asleep, sometimes accompanied and animated
with music and endless sound of snoring.

It was from this that the only person who was really consistent and intelligent control of mutual
affection and intimate conversation of Mrs. Light and the Father, was Dona Manolita. I I do not
want to do this, or any of my heroes, better than they are or what they were. Doña Manolita
was not a dove without gall, and not because they hated someone, but because he kept have malice.
Rather, it could tick Dona Manolita have it.

Rather it could be acknowledge that without envy or bitterness, and just for the sake of art,
like some gossip, and still too much, as a rule for his judgments, that terrible sentence
wrong and think be right. However, thanks to the loving devotion that inspired him Dona Luz,
she played always more benevolent side all his acts and speeches. Therefore, although insight
Dona Manolita long time could not hide that irresistible inclination of two souls, Dona Manolita
never failed to do justice to Dona Luz, and acknowledged and declared, back in bottom of his
chest, in her friend had not the slightest intention of disrupting the mood Father's lure with
flirting or blamed.

The respect and affection of the doctor's daughter Fr Enrique were great too, but not both that
any failure would prevent something completely opposite of their behavior. Doña Manolita then,
without thinking that Dona Luz had given no occasion for it or why he began to suspect the
Father, more or less confused and vaguely, was in love. Respect for his friend and because in
the places people do not walk the ethereal subtleties or passed over still, and because to
say something she had given rise to be added much, Donna and her father Manolita entrusted with
the results of his observations. Entrusted only to Güeto Pepe, who was hiding anything; but demanding
the deepest secrecy.

The severity of the Father Dona Luz and cut flights to all the boldness of Dona Manolita who never molested
directing the Father, even as a joke and rodeos and circumlocution, indirect darker on the passion
that he imagined. Doña Manolita continued, however, watching. Pepe
Güeto also observed.

Both spouses are then communicated what they had observed. Of Thus came the two to corroborate
the idea that the Father, perhaps without knowing it, loved Dona Luz by mystical and subtle
style, and that Dona Luz worship was left without assuming any disgusting term, without reflecting
on all the significance that this worship might have, and seeing in it more than a tender friendship,
friendly and impeccable, as she professed the convalescent and poetic mission.

It happened in an incident that was not expected now. Suddenly, when D. Acisclo had resigned
to his deputy were invisible to the district, he immediately wrote him telling him that came
to visit. The first town that was to be presented Villafría, whence horse, and the corresponding
bubble, was to pass to travel and visit other towns.

Don Acisclo was glad of this coming, which would give the greatest importance, but had to strive
to have good things to do D. Jaime Pimentel brilliant reception. To accommodate you with dignity
and even luxury, came to asking the best Dona Luz rooms of his ancestral home, not occupied by his
nephew, and to offer D. Jaime a good horse to ride and go from village to village, also went
to Dona Luz, asking lent her beautiful black horse. Luz had to agree to everything.

The day before they had to reach D. Jaime, everyone was abuzz in place with the great feast
of the reception would be. To Dona Manolita was more cheerful than usual and very talkative. In the
daily gatherings she attended only Dona Luz and the Father because
the rest were still busy with the preparations for the party, or relaxing
from the hustle that day.

Donna then had an occurrence Manolita something malicious, and that
his feelings had to give much light on their research.

Why was not to tease Dona Luz, predicting that D. Jaime, who said fame wonderful praise, and
he was free and single, would love it, just to see her with the happy surprise of finding in
a small village as complete paragon of elegance, distinction and beauty? Why, to tease and Dona
Luz, with some the flatter, could not make a joke rather heavy covertly to the Father, whose
love, tangled and murky in the center of consciousness, it would clarify with the reagent
jealousy? Doña Manolita, after making a joke, I would look to the
Father, to see if they budge or remained impassive, seemingly at least.

As

I said than done. Manolita said Dona Dona Luz D. Jaime was going to fall in love with her, just
saw her, that D. Jaime did not suspect that in a place so cornered as Villafria much treasure was
hidden, and that, in his view, it was clear the future of D. Love
Jaime.

- What stranger - he continued - not in love with you, who
have come to Villafria young, free and in a state of merit?

Prepare, therefore, the syrup with you usually tip the pumpkins, if you think also give to
it. But who knows? The suitor, which Columbro and is not rustic, or local, as you've had so
far. They say it the cream of the elegant Madrid, and also a brave soldier and a man of great
future and extraordinary talent. Will you be so fierce that also despise?

Doña Luz, without anger, but rather something flattered, responded by denying the validity
of the forecast, and ensuring, with a little mock modesty, that Don Jaime, accustomed to seeing
on the court so beautiful women, it would notice it or would ignore.

- In addition - "Dona Luz - no fear that I intend to that gentleman.

I'm not what is called a good game. For him it needs a rich heiress, to give wings to his ambition,
and not a poor girl that string and will serve as a burden and nuisance. Believe me, Manuela,
and I've said a thousand times, I never will marry me ... I do not
want to marry.

Let's not talk nonsense, even in jest.

Doña Manolita during these sentences between her friend and she crossed, glanced Father and thought
he saw had been paler than usual. Otherwise the Father remained silent and did not give their
opinion or possible crush on D. Jaime, no the constant aim of Dona Luz to stay single.

At ten o'clock he retired to his home, and the two friends were left
alone.

Dona Manolita then encouraged with how well his first joke was tolerated,
and such Once grateful as flattery, in the depths of the soul of the
daughter of the Marquis, was tempted venturing to make another joke
a lot less light.

Without thinking much, he said, because, as follows:

- Ay! Daughter! I regret having said what's D. Jaime.

- Why do you regret? - Simply asked Dona Luz -. I do not think probable that courtly knight falls in love
with me, in three or four days you have to be here, but and even that is impossible, or you
are offended me, estimated at more than I deserve, I foretell such a triumph, you have to do
to repent, but for the fear of too exalted my pride.

- It's not that fear - said the doctor's daughter - which leads me to repentance, but fear
of having hurt a sensitive heart, of having made a deep wound.

- I do not understand - "Dona Luz -, what do you mean? What is this tender heart?

- The P. Enrique - said in an evil hour Mrs. Manolita.

Luz blushed scarlet. All the blood in his body would be turned up to head. All the pride of
caste was gathered and piled in his heart. Saw nothing but ridiculous indignant they believed
that the object of the passion of a friar. She believed that a friar could admired for their
talent, estimated by his virtues revered for its impeccable behavior,
and taste their intercourse and conversation, and pleased to be your
friend, but seemed to fall in love so absurd, so contrary to all the
conveniences and social and religious laws, so monstrously ugly and
shocking, I did not want, or could, or should suspect it in person
the trial, the circumspection and even sanctity in the P. Enrique
showed.

Luz looked for, as an evil villain and mean Manolita Dona thought
and expression as an insult of that thinking through the floor.

-
What you have just uttered - said in a voice stammering with rage
- is an insult, it a harsh accusation against Fr Henry and me.

Neither the father is delirious, and I have given occasion to rave. A clean so that my fame
is protected from slander, I've enclosed in this place, I have separated
almost everything humanely, I fled the youth, while I was young, be
so still, as I am, I have admitted my privacy but old sixty years
as your father, the priest, Don Acisclo, and none of this has earned
me.

For me, about thirty years I have left, I have trusted with pleasure, I declare frankly in friendship
honored servant of God, tested in a thousand hardships, broken by them, full of science and
virtue, not conceived this friendship, this treatment is not explained,
but vile and impure motives.

And there are the rustic place, not that I do not know, but my best friend and me I suspect injury.

Poor
Donna was terrified Manolita: is pricked, and after he burst into tears.

- But, my dear - he said -, do not get mad for love of God. I certainly have explained me wrong.
I I'm not saying that is impure the Father's love ....

- What nonsense are yours? - Interrupted Dona Luz -. What loss of ideas? What foolish distinctions
intend to do? How do you explain away the love of a brother to a girl honored? Such love is
always impure, is infamous, it is sacrilegious.

Viewing Dona Manolita there was no way to remedy his clumsiness, and have irritated apuradísima
both Dona Luz, whom he loved with all my heart, did not utter a single word, but cried and sobbed as
if he had come upon the most cruel misfortune.

Then Dona Luz, who had a good background, despite his pride, he felt he had been hard rough and too
much, and apologized to Mrs. Manolita, kissing and all but crying
too.

The two friends came to get a result much more friendly than before. Luz was convinced Dona Manolita
that he had not intended to tarnish in the least purity friendly
relations with the P. Henry, and Mrs. Manolita made by convincing
and even convinced by the time that P. Henry, even as Dante loved
Beatrice, like Petrarch Laura loved, or loved Dulcinea Don Quixote,
was able to doña Luz love, because, being him a monk and she a highly
educated lady and honestísima, such love, convoluted, spiritual and
incorporeal as it was, had a something unseemly and grotesque commoner
the sinful condition of your beautiful and superb fitted very bad
friend.

No well-finished to make peace, came Don Pepe Güeto Acisclo who did not notice last traces of
the storm.

They dined in the four friendly company, and with good appetite,
and then went to sleep.

The next day was celebrated with pomp and din the triumphal entry of D. Jaime in Villafría.
Few had horses, and not a few who had only mule or donkey, went at dawn to greet at the station,
with D. Acisclo the front, and about eleven o'clock they all returned to the deputy, Knight him
in the beautiful black horse Dona Luz.

At the gates of the place came the boys and men on foot to receive the ride lucida, and they
all went through the streets to the sound of the bells that were cast in flight between live
and cheers, and thunderous shot from air guns were serviceable in many Villafría.

-XIII-

Crisis

Having rejected as cruel despondency Manolita Dona words and then
of made peace, Dona Luz thought to their own in the value and purpose
of those words; and, as if a strange new light illuminate the darkest
labyrinths of his brain, thought he heard the whole truth and acknowledged
that his friend had some show of reason to say he said.

Luz was angry perhaps because his own conscience, taking advantage of the words Dona Manolita had
entered a more severe charge. What difference is radical and important is between the tender and
exclusive friendship between the most marked predilection a man for a woman and a woman by
a man, neither old yet, and love purest, most sublime Platonic? Luz itself is put this matter, and
not conceive resolve but in the sense that no difference occurs, or, if given, only is obvious and
subtle cigar breaks, I decided it was not absurd or insolence to
assume and claim that she was in love with Fr Enrique. Father, chained
by respect, taking into account their state, their votes and positions,
he had kept well to state their love in a way that would make even
remotely suspect that it was not legitimate and unblemished; but certainly
in the bottom of his soul he felt.

Dona Luz after leaving this as
sitting and obvious, he asked again: "What about me I done to inspire
this passion? What acquire fault that he loves me? To what extent
have given and continue to give fuel to his affection? ". The answer
was that Dona Luz was contradictory and confusing. Ora was condemned,
now is absolved. Was condemned to recognize that she had concealed
much less than the complacency with which he heard him, the glad sight
caused him, the delight in his conversation he always brought, and
she instinctively reckless, but depraved, liked to look beautiful
and elegant at all, and particularly people who wanted among which
could not fail to include the Father. Linen for the house she purchased, and
things needed for the rooms and the kitchen. But she would expend nothing in clothes for herself.
When pressed on the subject by her aunt, she declared that her marriage would be one that required
no finery. Her own condition and that of her proposed husband, she said, made it quite unnecessary.
When she was told that Steinmarc would be offended by such exaggerated simplicity, she turned
upon her aunt with such a look of scorn that Madame Staubach did not dare to say another word.
Indeed at this time Madame Staubach had become almost afraid of her niece, and would sit watching
the silent stern industry of the younger woman with something of awe. Could it be that there
ever came over her heart a shock of regret for the thing she was doing? Was it possible that
she should already be feeling remorse? If it was so with her, she turned herself to prayer,
and believed that the Lord told her that she was right.

But there were others who watched, and spoke among themselves, and felt that the silent solemnity
of Linda's mode of life was a cause for trembling. Max Bogen's wife had come to her father's
house, and had seen Linda, and had talked to Tetchen, and had said at home that Linda was--mad.
Her father had become frightened, and had refused to take any part in the matter. He acknowledged
that he had given his advice in favour of the marriage, but he had done this merely as a matter
of course,--to oblige his neighbour, Madame Staubach. He would have nothing more to do with
it. When Fanny told him that she feared that Linda would lose her senses, he went into his
workshop and busied himself with a great chair. But Tetchen was not so reticent. Tetchen said
much to Madame Staubach;--so much that the unfortunate widow was nearly always on her knees,
asking for help, asking in very truth for new gifts of obstinate persistency; and Tetchen also
said much to Fanny Bogen.

"But what can we do, Tetchen?" asked Fanny.

"If I had my will," said Tetchen, "I would so handle him that he would be glad enough to be
off his bargain. But you'll see they'll never live together as man and wife,--never for a day."

They who said that Linda was mad at this time were probably half-right; but if so, her madness
had shown itself in none of those forms which are held to justify interference by authority.
There was no one in Nuremberg who could lock a woman up because she was silent; or could declare
her to be unfit for marriage because she refused to buy wedding clothes. The marriage must
go on. Linda herself felt that it must be accomplished. Her silence and her sternness were
not now consciously used by her as means of opposing or delaying the coming ceremony, but simply
betrayed the state of mind to which she was reduced. She counted the days and she counted the
hours as a criminal counts them who sits in his cell and waits for the executioner. She knew,
she thought she knew, that she would stand in the church and have her hand put into that of
Peter Steinmarc; but what might happen after that she did not know.

She would stand at the altar and have her hand put into that of Peter Steinmarc, and she would
be called his wife in sight of God and man. She spent hours in solitude attempting to realise
the position with all its horrors. She never devoted a minute to the task of reconciling herself
to it. She did not make one slightest endeavour towards teaching herself that after all it
might be possible for her to live with the man as his companion in peace and quietness. She
hated him with all the vigour of her heart, and she would hate him to the end. On that subject
no advice, no prayer, no grace from heaven, could be of service to her. Satan, with all the
horrors of hell, as they had been described to her, was preferable to the companionship of
Peter Steinmarc. And yet she went on without flinching.

She went on without flinching till the night of the tenth of March. Up to that time, from the
day on which she had last consented to her martyrdom, no idea of escape had occurred to her.
As she left her aunt on that evening, Madame Staubach spoke to her. "You should at any rate
pray for him," said Madame Staubach. "I hope that you pray that this marriage may be for his
welfare." How could she pray for him? And how could she utter such a prayer as that? But she
tried; and as she tried, she reflected that the curse to him would be as great as it was to
her. Not only was she to be sacrificed, but the miserable man was bringing himself also to
utter wretchedness. Unless she could die, there would be no escape for him, as also there would
be none for her. That she should speak to him, touch him, hold intercourse with him, was, she
now told herself, out of the question. She might be his servant, if he would allow her to be
so at a distance, but nothing more. Or it might be possible that she should be his murderess!
A woman who has been taught by her religion that she is and must be a child of the Evil One,
may become guilty of what most terrible crime you please without much increase of damage to
her own cause,--without much damage according to her own views of life and death. Linda, as
she thought of it in her own chamber, with her eyes wide open, looking into the dark night
from out of her window, declared to herself that in certain circumstances she would certainly
attempt to kill him. She shuddered and shook till she almost fell from her chair. Come what
might, she would not endure the pressure of his caress.

Then she got up and resolved that she would even yet make one other struggle to escape. It
would not be true of her to say that at this moment she was mad, but the mixed excitement and
terror of her position as she was waiting her doom, joined to her fears, her doubts, and, worse
than all, her certainties as to her condition in the sight of God, had almost unstrung her
mind. She had almost come to believe that the world was at its end, and that the punishment
of which she had heard so much was already upon her. "If this is to be a doom for ever," she
said to herself, "the God I have striven to love is very cruel." But then there came an exercise
of reason which told her that it could not be a doom for ever. It was clear to her that there
was much as yet within her own power which could certainly not be so in that abode of the unblessed
to which she was to be summoned. There was the window before her, with the silent river running
below; and she knew that she could throw herself from it if she chose to put forth the power
which she still possessed.

Linda knew nothing of Hamlet, but the thought was there, exact; and the knowledge that some
sort of choice was still open to her, if it were only the choice of sending herself at once
to a world different from this, a world in which Peter Steinmarc would not be the avenger of
her life's wickedness, made her aware that even yet something might be done.

On the following morning she was in the kitchen, as was usual with her now, at an early hour,
and made the coffee for her aunt's breakfast, and for Peter's. Tetchen was there also, and
to Tetchen she spoke a word or two in good humour. Tetchen said afterwards that she knew that
something was to happen, because Linda's manner to her had been completely changed that morning.
She sat down with her aunt at eight, and ate a morsel of bread, and endeavoured to swallow
her coffee. She was thinking at the time that it might be the case that she would never see
her aunt again. All the suffering that she had endured at Madame Staubach's hands had never
quenched her love. Miserable as she had been made by the manner in which this woman had executed
the trust which circumstances had placed in her hands, Linda had hardly blamed her aunt even
within her own bosom. When with a frenzy of agony Madame Staubach would repeat prayer after
prayer, extending her hands towards heaven, and seeking to obtain that which she desired by
the painful intensity of her own faith, it had never occurred to Linda that in such proceedings
she was ill-treated by her aunt. Her aunt, she thought, had ever shown to her all that love
which a mother has for her child, and Linda in her misery was never ungrateful. As soon as
the meal was finished she put on her hat and cloak, which she had brought down from her room,
and then kissed her aunt.

"God bless you, my child," said Madame Staubach, "and enable you to be an affectionate and
dutiful wife to your husband." Then Linda went forth from the room and from the house, and
as she went she cast her eyes around, thinking that it might be possible that she should never
see them again.

Linda told no lie as she left her aunt, but she felt that she was acting a lie. It had been
arranged between them, before she had entertained this thought of escaping from Nuremberg,
that she should on this morning go out by herself and make certain purchases. In spite of the
things that had been done, of Valcarm's visit to the upper storeys of the house, of the flight
to Augsburg, of Linda's long protracted obstinacy and persistently expressed hatred for the
man who was to be her husband, Madame Staubach still trusted her niece. She trusted Linda perhaps
the more at this time from a feeling that she had exacted so much from the girl. When, therefore,
Linda kissed her and went out, she had no suspicion on her mind; nor was any aroused till the
usual dinner-hour was passed, and Linda was still absent. When Tetchen at one o'clock said
something of her wonder that the fraulein had not returned, Madame Staubach had suggested that
she might be with her friend Herr Molk. Tetchen knew what was the warmth of that friendship,
and thought that such a visit was not probable. At three o'clock the postman brought a letter
which Linda herself had dropped into the box of the post-office that morning, soon after leaving
the house. She had known when, in ordinary course, it would be delivered. Should it lead by
any misfortune to her discovery before she could escape, that she could not help. Even that,
accompanied by her capture, would be as good a mode as any other of telling her aunt the truth.
The letter was as follows:--

   Thursday Night.

   DEAREST AUNT,--I think you hardly know what are my
   sufferings. I truly believe that I have deserved them, but
   nevertheless they are insupportable. I cannot marry Peter
   Steinmarc. I have tried it, and cannot. The day is very
   near now; but were it to come nearer, I should go mad, or I
   should kill myself. I think that you do not know what the
   feeling is that has made me the most wretched of women since
   this marriage was first proposed to me. I shall go away
   to-morrow, and shall try to get to my uncle's house in
   Cologne. It is a long way off, and perhaps I shall never get
   there: but if I am to die on the road, oh, how much better
   will that be! I do not want to live. I have made you
   unhappy, and everybody unhappy, but I do not think that
   anybody has been so unhappy as I am. I shall give you
   a kiss as I go out, and you will think that it was the
   kiss of Judas; but I am not a Judas in my heart. Dear
   aunt Charlotte, I would have borne it if I could,--Your
   affectionate, but undutiful niece,

   LINDA TRESSEL.

Undutiful! So she called herself; but had she not, in truth, paid duty to her aunt beyond that
which one human being can in any case owe to another? Are we to believe that the very soul
of the offspring is to be at the disposition of the parent? Poor Linda! Madame Staubach, when
the letter was handed to her by Tetchen, sat aghast for a while, motionless, with her hands
before her. "She is off again, I suppose," said Tetchen.

"Yes; she has gone."

"It serves you right. I say it now, and I will say it. Why was she so driven?" Madame Staubach
said never a word. Could she have had Linda back at the instant, just now, at this very moment,
she would have yielded. It was beginning to become apparent to her that God did not intend
that her prayers should be successful. Doubtless the fault was with herself. She had lacked
faith. Then as she sat there she began to reflect that it might be that she herself was not
of the elect. What if, after all, she had been wrong throughout! "Is anything to be done?"
said Tetchen, who was still standing by her side.

"What ought I to do, Tetchen?"

"Wring Peter Steinmarc's neck," said Tetchen. "That would be the best thing." Even this did
not bring forth an angry retort from Madame Staubach. About an hour after that Peter came in.
He had already heard that the bird had flown. Some messenger from Jacob Heisse's house had
brought him the tidings to the town-hall.

"What is this?" said he. "What is this? She has gone again."

"Yes," said Tetchen, "she has gone again. What did you expect?"

"And Ludovic Valcarm is with her?"

"Ludovic Valcarm is not with her!" said Madame Staubach, with an expression of wrath which
made him start a foot back from where he stood.

"Ah!" he exclaimed, when he had recovered himself, and reflected that he had no cause for fear,
"she is no better than she should be."

"She is ten times too good for you. That is all that is the matter with her," said Tetchen.

"I have done with her,--have done with her altogether," said Peter, rubbing his hands together.

"I should think you have," said Tetchen.

"Tell him to leave me," said Madame Staubach, waving Peter away with her hand. Then Tetchen
took the town-clerk by his arm, and led him somewhat roughly out of the room. So he shall disappear
from our sight. No reader will now require to be told that he did not become the husband of
Linda Tressel.

Madame Staubach did nothing and said nothing further on the matter that night. Tetchen indeed
went up to the railway station, and found that Linda had taken a ticket through to Mannheim,
and had asked questions there, openly, in reference to the boats from thence down the Rhine.
She had with her money sufficient to take her to Cologne, and her aunt endeavoured to comfort
herself with thinking that no further evil would come of this journey than the cost, and the
rumours it would furnish. As to Peter Steinmarc, that was now all over. If Linda would return,
no further attempt should be made. Tetchen said nothing on the subject, but she herself was
by no means sure that Linda had no partner in her escape. To Tetchen's mind it was so natural
that there should be a partner.

Early on the following morning Madame Staubach was closeted with Herr Molk in the panelled
chamber of the house in the Egidien Platz, seeking advice. "Gone again, is she?" said Herr
Molk, holding up his hand. "And that fellow is with her of course?"

"No, no, no!" exclaimed Madame Staubach.

"Are you sure of that! At any rate she must marry him now, for nobody else will take her. Peter
won't bite again at that bait." Then Madame Staubach was compelled to explain that all ideas
of matrimony in respect to her niece must be laid aside, and she was driven also to confess
that she had persevered too long in regard to Peter Steinmarc. "He certainly is a little rusty
for such a young woman as Linda," said Herr Molk, confessing also his part of the fault. At
last he counselled Madame Staubach that she could do nothing but follow her niece to Cologne,
as she had before followed her to Augsburg. Such a journey would be very terrible to her. She
had not been in Cologne for years, and did not wish to see again those who were there. But
she felt that she had no alternative, and she went.

CHAPTER XVII

For very many years no connection had been maintained between the two women who lived together
in Nuremberg, and their nearest relative, who was a half-brother of Madame Staubach's, a lawyer,
living in Cologne. This uncle of Linda's was a Roman Catholic, and had on this account been
shunned by Madame Staubach. Some slight intercourse there had been on matters of business,
and thus it had come to pass that Linda knew the address of her uncle. But this was all that
she knew, and knowing this only, she had started for Cologne. The reader will hardly require
to be told that she had not gone in company with him who a few weeks since had been her lover.
The reader, perhaps, will have understood Linda's character so thoroughly as to be convinced
that, though she had submitted to be dragged out of her window by her lover, and carried away
to Augsburg in the night, still it was not probable that she should again be guilty of such
indiscretion as that. The lesson had not been in vain. If there be any reader who does not
know Linda's character better than it was known to Herr Molk, or even to Tetchen, this story
has been told in vain. All alone she started, and all alone she made the entire journey. Long
as it was, there was no rest for her on the way. 

Maxi and her aunt were accommodated there in front, near a bench to sit at intervals rest. The girl,
imbued with a keen religious sentiment, not daring to look at Miguel; believed profane the majesty
of God's house. However, occasionally, in rare rare, authorized the raising of the eyes and
throw a quick and serious gaze, regretting I did immediately. In our youth that made him enjoy
more shy and very fast look that hot and prolonged than other women more beautiful and more attractive
had lying in the course of his life.

Although long-distance, observed this afternoon that Maxi's face was not the same other days,
the melancholy, always scattered about him, had become the deep sadness; their eyes were more frequent
and longer, and around his eyes slightly red circle clearly accused the tears spill. What happened?
he asked anxiously. Does be scolded his aunt? And wishes to conclude the ninth soon to know.

It
was dark when they left the church.

The young stranger used to wait Dona Rosalia and her niece on the porch, holy water and offer
to accompany them home in conjunction with other neighbors, which allowed him to catch up with
his girlfriend and holding her conversation apart. All this idyllic breathed a sense of gentle happiness,
which, in contrast their refined courtly love, was causing him great delight. After having
directed insignificant questions, to which the girl replied with a sweet and subdued voice,
little more subdued than usual, he asked bluntly:

- What is it? ... Looks like you're sad and you cried (the secret had been tuteaba few days:
she did not dare to do it occasionally, when the young man as strongly required.)

Maximina walked in silence.

- Do you have fought your aunt?

- No.

Was silent.

After a moment, his face getting closer, he observed that some large tears rolled down her cheeks.

-
Are you crying?

... Why? - Asked anxiously.

- Do not cry ... is not - "she lifted her eyes towards him smiling,
but cloudy with tears.

- You cry, yes, and I want to know why.

I think I have a right to it ... if I want, as you say.

It took some work still wrest their secret. At length she vented her breast and His voice cut through
the sobs:

- Today have been Paul and Second home and took me to the store before
coming Joaquina to the ninth ... and there began to make fun of me
... I said something so bad!

- What did they say?

- That V. was
laughing at me and just seemed to love me for some fun ... That how
I could figure out a rich and elegant young man had to marry me ...

-
"All that you have said? - Miguel said with irritation deaf .-- Nothing
else?

- They also told me V. I had a girlfriend ... a lady who lives
there in the way of France and that was V. to see every day ... It
seems that they came for me especially designed to this knife!

-
I do not have told you the truth.

 She
had come all the way from Nuremberg to this spot, thinking it possible that in this spot alone
she might receive succour; and now she stood there, fearing to raise the knocker on the door.
She was a lamb indeed, whose fleece had been shorn very close; and the shearing had been done
all in the sacred name of religion! It had been thought necessary that the vile desires of
her human heart should be crushed within her bosom, and the crushing had brought her to this.
She looked up in her desolation at the front of the house. It was a white, large house, as
belonging to a moderately prosperous citizen, with two windows on each side of the door, and
five above, and then others again above them. But there seemed to be no motion within it, nor
was there any one stirring along the street. Would it not be better, she thought, that she
should sit for a while and wait upon the door-step? Who has not known that frame of mind in
which any postponement of the thing dreaded is acceptable?

But Linda's power of postponement was very short. She had hardly sunk on to the step, when
the door was opened, and the necessity for explaining herself came upon her. Slowly and with
pain she dragged herself on to her feet, and told the suspicious servant, who stood filling
the aperture of the doorway, that her name was Linda Tressel, and that she had come from Nuremberg.
She had come from the house of Madame Staubach at Nuremberg. Would the servant be kind enough
to tell Herr Grüner that Linda Tressel, from Madame Staubach's house in Nuremberg, was at his
door? She claimed no kindred then, feeling that the woman might take such claim as a disgrace
to her master. When she was asked to call again later, she looked piteously into the woman's
face, and said that she feared she was too ill to walk away.

Before the morning was over she was in bed, and her uncle's wife was at her bedside, and there
had been fair-haired cousins in her room, creeping in to gaze at her with their soft blue eyes,
touching her with their young soft hands, and calling her Cousin Linda with their soft voices. At last
dared to say:

- Do not dance V.?

- If V I had fun so far and would be within the circle - said getting
seriously.

- Yo! - Said the girl calmly.

- Yes, you .-- Miguel released
to say it Do not laugh .-- V. case: I never dreamed of dancing; but
less now that I am in such good company.

The girl was so frightened yet, he did not know thank you. Guessing concern our young, dispensed
with the usual jokes and began to treat him with more respect. Enterose gently on the details
of his life and was slowly gaining confidence, making it speak more disengage.

But the ball was crushed. Some young people left for their homes, others, and with them some leading
men, came to sit in front of the tobacconist, for which they Dona Rosalia consented to get
more chairs and a long bench. Miguel sat next to Maxi.

- Remove V. guitar, Dona Rosalia - said one of the girls.

- Will
you sing Johnny?

Juanito was the pilot of steam where our young man had arrived. It was well-known Andalusian
in Pasajes.

As came the guitar, began to brighten up the conversation with T-shirts, polo shirts and flamenco
dancers. Miguel, to the surprise of beautiful girls that were there, leaning back in the chair,
began to speak to the ear Maximina. What do you say? Nothing, nonsense: it was going very nicely,
it was a very nice girl, she was glad to have come to stop his house,
etc. Maximina, more surprised than confusing, listened with a smile
that music so new to it (Michael, not the pilot).

Our youth spent time in the best I could, waiting for time to go
to bed.

- Why not feel V. Paulina next? - asked the girl.

- Who
is Paul?

- That girl so beautiful that it is near the door.



Linda Tressel was now happier than she had remembered herself to have been since she was a
child, though ill, so that the doctor who came to visit her could only shake his head and speak
in whispers to aunt Grüner. Linda herself, perceiving how it was with the doctor,--knowing
that there were whispers though she did not hear them, and shakings of the head though she
did not see them,--told her aunt with a smile that she was contented to die. Her utmost hope,
the extent of her wishes, had been to escape from the extremity of misery to which she had
been doomed. She had thought often, she said, as she had been making that journey, that her
strength would not serve her to reach the house of her relative. "God," she said, "had been
very good to her, and she was now contented to go."

Madame Staubach arrived at Cologne four days after her niece, and was also welcomed at her
brother's house. But the welcome accorded to her was not that which had been given to Linda.
"She has been driven very nearly to death's door among you," said the one aunt to the other.
To Linda Madame Staubach was willing to own that she had been wrong, but she could make no
such acknowledgment to the wife of her half-brother,--to a benighted Papist. "I have endeavoured
to do my duty by my niece," said Madame Staubach, "asking the Lord daily to show me the way."
"Pshaw!" said the other woman. "Your always asking the way, and never knowing it, will end
in her death. She will have been murdered by your prayers." This was very terrible, but for
Linda's sake it was borne.

There was nothing of reproach either from Linda to her aunt or from Madame Staubach to her
niece, nor was the name of Peter Steinmarc mentioned between them for many days. It was, indeed,
mentioned but once again by poor Linda Tressel. For some weeks, for nearly a month, they all
remained in the house of Herr Grüner, and then Linda was removed to apartments in Cologne,
in which all her earthly troubles were brought to a close. She never saw Nuremberg again, or
Tetchen, who had been faithful at least to her, nor did she ever even ask the fate of Ludovic
Valcarm. His name Madame Staubach never dared to mention; and Linda was silent, thinking always
that it was a name of offence. He ... Do not you know ... one died of love for me. For this I am a toy, medium to possess
a fortune. This does not include even love. He scoffs. He called me stupid and weighed me crazy
because they do not love me love when she married me, because it I said that has defiled and
debased my love haciéndomele feel no sense. Do you think this small reason for my despair?

Doña
Manolita was reckless, full of pity for her friend so unhappy, but
not knowing what to say.

Doña Manolita sighed, stroking Dona Luz, compassionate look at her, listened very attentively
and was silent.

Finally, he came to say:

- But what despair is yours? Do not put
them in your ticket that you wished life? Who can say what were the accusations brought against her
by the fury of her own conscience?

Every day the fair-haired cousins came to Linda's bedside, and whispered to her with their
soft voices, and looked at her with their soft eyes, and touched her with their soft hands.
Linda would kiss their plump arms and lean her head against them, and would find a very paradise
of happiness in this late revelation of human love. As she lay a-dying she must have known
that the world had been very hard to her, and that her aunt's teaching had indeed crushed her,--body
as well as spirit. Four centuries of tyranny, intolerance and errors
unheard, have left behind them a people who, if he had been ruled as England from 1688, today
would be the first people in the world. Despite that, the Spain of today is very distant greatly
from that of 1825, visible progress, and in just five years after the passing quasi-revolution
of 1854, has made great strides.

Perhaps will say: "If the majority of Spanish people have such good
character traits, Why is let evil rule and does not change your situation?
"

A small tombstone in the Protestant burying-ground at Cologne tells that Linda Tressel, of
Nuremberg, died in that city on the 20th of July 1863, and that she was buried in that spot.

