"That shalt thou do," replied Gottfried, readily, secure that Father Balthazar would see the
matter in the same light as himself, and tranquillize the good woman.  It was not yet so late
but that a servant could be despatched with a request that Father Balthazar, who lived not
many houses off in the same street, would favour the Burgomeisterinn Sorel by coming to speak
with her.  In a few minutes he appeared,--an aged man, with a sensible face, of the fresh pure
bloom preserved by a temperate life.  He was a secular parish-priest, and, as well as his friend
Master Gottfried, held greatly by the views left by the famous Strasburg preacher, Master John
Tauler. After the good housemother had, in strong terms, laid the case before him, she expected
a trenchant decision on her own side, but, to her surprise and disappointment, he declared
that Master Gottfried was right, and that, unless Hugh Sorel demanded anything absolutely sinful
of his daughter, it was needful that she should submit.  He repeated, in stronger terms, the
assurance that she would be protected in the endeavour to do right, and the Divine promises
which he quoted from the Latin Scriptures gave some comfort to the niece, who understood them,
while they impressed the aunt, who did not. There was always the hope that, whether the young
lady died or recovered, the conclusion of her illness would be the term of Christina's stay
at Adlerstein, and with this trust Johanna must content herself.  The priest took leave, after
appointing with Christina to meet her in the confessional early in the morning before mass;
and half the night was spent by the aunt and niece in preparing Christina's wardrobe for her
sudden journey.

Many a tear was shed over the tokens of the little services she was wont to render, her half-done
works, and pleasant studies so suddenly broken off, and all the time Hausfrau Johanna was running
on with a lecture on the diligent preservation of her maiden discretion, with plentiful warnings
against swaggering men-at-arms, drunken lanzknechts, and, above all, against young barons,
who most assuredly could mean no good by any burgher maiden.  The good aunt blessed the saints
that her Stina was likely only to be lovely in affectionate home eyes; but, for that matter,
idle men, shut up in a castle, with nothing but mischief to think of, would be dangerous to
Little Three Eyes herself, and Christina had best never stir a yard from her lady's chair,
when forced to meet them.  All this was interspersed with motherly advice how to treat the
sick lady, and receipts for cordials and possets; for Johanna began to regard the case as a
sort of second-hand one of her own.  Nay, she even turned it over in her mind whether she should
not offer herself as the Lady Ermentrude's sick-nurse, as being a less dangerous commodity
than her little niece:  but fears for the well-being of the master-carver, and his Wirthschaft,
and still more the notion of gossip Gertrude Grundt hearing that she had ridden off with a
wild lanzknecht, made her at once reject the plan, without even mentioning it to her husband
or his niece.

By the time Hugh Sorel rolled out from between his feather beds, and was about to don his greasy
buff, a handsome new suit, finished point device, and a pair of huge boots to correspond, had
been laid by his bedside.

"Ho, ho!  Master Goetz," said he, as he stumbled into the Stube, "I see thy game.  Thou wouldst
make it worth my while to visit the father-house at Ulm?"

"It shall be worth thy while, indeed, if thou bringest me back my white dove," was Gottfried's
answer.

"And how if I bring her back with a strapping reiter son-in-law?" laughed Hugh.  "What welcome
should the fellow receive?"

"That would depend on what he might be," replied Gottfried; and Hugh, his love of tormenting
a little allayed by satisfaction in his buff suit, and by an eye to a heavy purse that lay
by his brother's hand on the table, added, "Little fear of that.  Our fellows would look for
lustier brides than yon little pale face.  'Tis whiter than ever this morning,--but no tears.
That is my brave girl."

"Yes, father, I am ready to do your bidding," replied Christina, meekly.

"That is well, child.  Mark me, no tears.  Thy mother wept day and night, and, when she had
wept out her tears, she was sullen, when I would have been friendly towards her.  It was the
worse for her. But, so long as thou art good daughter to me, thou shalt find me good father
to thee;" and for a moment there was a kindliness in his eye which made it sufficiently like
that of his brother to give some consolation to the shrinking heart that he was rending from
all it loved; and she steadied her voice for another gentle profession of obedience, for which
she felt strengthened by the morning's orisons.

"Well said, child.  Now canst sit on old Nibelung's croup?  His back- bone is somewhat sharper
than if he had battened in a citizen's stall; but, if thine aunt can find thee some sort of
pillion, I'll promise thee the best ride thou hast had since we came from Innspruck, ere thou
canst remember."

"Christina has her own mule," replied her uncle, "without troubling Nibelung to carry double."

"Ho! her own!  An overfed burgomaster sort of a beast, that will turn restive at the first
sight of the Eagle's Ladder!  However, he may carry her so far, and, if we cannot get him up
the mountain, I shall know what to do with him," he muttered to himself.

But Hugh, like many a gentleman after him, was recusant at the sight of his daughter's luggage;
and yet it only loaded one sumpter mule, besides forming a few bundles which could be easily
bestowed upon the saddles of his two knappen, while her lute hung by a silken string on her
arm.  Both she and her aunt thought she had been extremely moderate; but his cry was, What
could she want with so much?  Her mother had never been allowed more than would go into a pair
of saddle-bags; and his own Jungfrau--she had never seen so much gear together in her life;
he would be laughed to scorn for his presumption in bringing such a fine lady into the castle;
it would be well if Freiherr Eberhard's bride brought half as much.

Still he had a certain pride in it--he was, after all, by birth and breeding a burgher--and
there had been evidently a softening and civilizing influence in the night spent beneath his
paternal roof, and old habits, and perhaps likewise in the submission he had met with from
his daughter.  The attendants, too, who had been pleased with their quarters, readily undertook
to carry their share of the burthen, and, though he growled and muttered a little, he at length
was won over to consent, chiefly, as it seemed, by Christina's obliging readiness to leave
behind the bundle that contained her holiday kirtle.

He had been spared all needless irritation.  Before his waking, Christina had been at the priest's
cell, and had received his last blessings and counsels, and she had, on the way back, exchanged
her farewells and tears with her two dearest friends, Barbara Schmidt, and Regina Grundt, confiding
to the former her cage of doves, and to the latter the myrtle, which, like every German maiden,
she cherished in her window, to supply her future bridal wreath.  Now pale as death, but so
resolutely composed as to be almost disappointing to her demonstrative aunt, she quietly went
through her home partings; while Hausfrau Johanna adjured her father by all that was sacred
to be a true guardian and protector of the child, and he could not forbear from a few tormenting
auguries about the lanzknecht son-in- law.  Their effect was to make the good dame more passionate
in her embraces and admonitions to Christina to take care of herself.  She would have a mass
said every day that Heaven might have a care of her!

Master Gottfried was going to ride as far as the confines of the free city's territory, and
his round, sleek, cream-coloured palfrey, used to ambling in civic processions, was as great
a contrast to raw- boned, wild-eyed Nibelung, all dappled with misty grey, as was the stately,
substantial burgher to his lean, hungry-looking brother, or Dame Johanna's dignified, curled,
white poodle, which was forcibly withheld from following Christina, to the coarse-bristled,
wolfish- looking hound who glared at the household pet with angry and contemptuous eyes, and
made poor Christina's heart throb with terror whenever it bounded near her.

Close to her uncle she kept, as beneath the trellised porches that came down from the projecting
gables of the burghers' houses many a well-known face gazed and nodded, as they took their
way through the crooked streets, many a beggar or poor widow waved her a blessing. Out into
the market-place, with its clear fountain adorned with arches and statues, past the rising
Dome Kirk, where the swarms of workmen unbonneted to the master-carver, and the reiter paused
with an irreverent sneer at the small progress made since he could first remember the building.
How poor little Christina's soul clung to every cusp of the lacework spire, every arch of the
window, each of which she had hailed as an achievement!  The tears had well-nigh blinded her
in a gush of feeling that came on her unawares, and her mule had his own way as he carried
her under the arch of the tall and beautifully-sculptured bridge tower, and over the noble
bridge across the Danube.

Her uncle spoke much, low and earnestly, to his brother.  She knew it was in commendation of
her to his care, and an endeavour to impress him with a sense of the kind of protection she
would require, and she kept out of earshot.  It was enough for her to see her uncle still,
and feel that his tenderness was with her, and around her.  But at last he drew his rein. 
"And now, my little one, the daughter of my heart, I must bid thee farewell," he said.

Christina could not be restrained from springing from her mule, and kneeling on the grass to
receive his blessing, her face hidden in her hands, that her father might not see her tears.

"The good God bless thee, my child," said Gottfried, who seldom invoked the saints; "bless
thee, and bring thee back in His own good time.  Thou hast been a good child to us; be so to
thine own father. Do thy work, and come back to us again."

The tears rained down his cheeks, as Christina's head lay on his bosom, and then with a last
kiss he lifted her again on her mule, mounted his horse, and turned back to the city, with
his servant.

Hugh was merciful enough to let his daughter gaze long after the retreating figure ere he summoned
her on.  All day they rode, at first through meadow lands and then through more broken, open
ground, where at mid-day they halted, and dined upon the plentiful fare with which the housemother
had provided them, over which Hugh smacked his lips, and owned that they did live well in the
old town!  Could Christina make such sausages?

"Not as well as my aunt."

"Well, do thy best, and thou wilt win favour with the baron."

The evening began to advance, and Christina was very weary, as the purple mountains that she
had long watched with a mixture of fear and hope began to look more distinct, and the ground
was often in abrupt ascents.  Her father, without giving space for complaints, hurried her
on.  He must reach the Debateable Ford ere dark.  It was, however, twilight when they came
to an open space, where, at the foot of thickly forest-clad rising ground, lay an expanse of
turf and rich grass, through which a stream made its way, standing in a wide tranquil pool
as if to rest after its rough course from the mountains.  Above rose, like a dark wall, crag
upon crag, peak on peak, in purple masses, blending with the sky; and Hugh, pointing upwards
to a turreted point, apparently close above their heads, where a star of light was burning,
told her that there was Adlerstein, and this was the Debateable Ford.

In fact, as he explained, while splashing through the shallow expanse, the stream had changed
its course.  It was the boundary between the lands of Schlangenwald and Adlerstein, but it
had within the last sixty years burst forth in a flood, and had then declined to return to
its own bed, but had flowed in a fresh channel to the right of the former one.  The Freiherren
von Adlerstein claimed the ground to the old channel, the Graffen von Schlangenwald held that
the river was the landmark; and the dispute had a greater importance than seemed explained
from the worth of the rushy space of ground in question, for this was the passage of the Italian
merchants on their way from Constance, and every load that was overthrown in the river was
regarded as the lawful prey of the noble on whose banks the catastrophe befell.

Any freight of goods was anxiously watched by both nobles, and it was not their fault if no
disaster befell the travellers.  Hugh talked of the Schlangenwald marauders with the bitterness
of a deadly feud, but manifestly did not breathe freely till his whole convoy were safe across
both the wet and the dry channel.

Christina supposed they should now ascend to the castle; but her father laughed, saying that
the castle was not such a step off as she fancied, and that they must have daylight for the
Eagle's Stairs.  He led the way through the trees, up ground that she thought mountain already,
and finally arrived at a miserable little hut, which served the purpose of an inn.

He was received there with much obsequiousness, and was plainly a great authority there.  Christina,
weary and frightened, descended from her mule, and was put under the protection of a wild,
rough- looking peasant woman, who stared at her like something from another world, but at length
showed her a nook behind a mud partition, where she could spread her mantle, and at least lie
down, and tell her beads unseen, if she could not sleep in the stifling, smoky atmosphere,
amid the sounds of carousal among her father and his fellows.

The great hound came up and smelt to her.  His outline was so- wolfish, that she had nearly
screamed:  but, more in terror at the men who might have helped her than even at the beast,
she tried to smooth him with her trembling hand, whispered his name of "Festhold," and found
him licking her hand, and wagging his long rough tail.  And he finally lay down at her feet,
as though to protect her.

"Is it a sign that good angels will not let me be hurt?" she thought, and, wearied out, she slept.

CHAPTER II:  THE EYRIE

Christina Sorel awoke to a scene most unlike that which had been wont to meet her eyes in her
own little wainscoted chamber high in the gabled front of her uncle's house.  It was a time
when the imperial free towns of Germany had advanced nearly as far as those of Italy in civilization,
and had reached a point whence they retrograded grievously during the Thirty Years' War, even
to an extent that they have never entirely recovered.  The country immediately around them
shared the benefits of their civilization, and the free peasant- proprietors lived in great
ease and prosperity, in beautiful and picturesque farmsteads, enjoying a careless abundance,
and keeping numerous rural or religious feasts, where old Teutonic mythological observances
had received a Christian colouring and adaptation.

In the mountains, or around the castles, it was usually very different.  The elective constitution
of the empire, the frequent change of dynasty, the many disputed successions, had combined
to render the sovereign authority uncertain and feeble, and it was seldom really felt save
in the hereditary dominions of the Kaiser for the time being.  Thus, while the cities advanced
in the power of self-government, and the education it conveyed, the nobles, especially those
whose abodes were not easily accessible, were often practically under no government at all,
and felt themselves accountable to no man.  The old wild freedom of the Suevi, and other Teutonic
tribes, still technically, and in many cases practically, existed.  The Heretogen, Heerzogen,
or, as we call them, Dukes, had indeed accepted employment from the Kaiser as his generals,
and had received rewards from him; the Gerefen, or Graffen, of all kinds were his judges, the
titles of both being proofs of their holding commissions from, and being thus dependent on,
the court.  But the Freiherren, a word very inadequately represented by our French term of
baron, were absolutely free, "never in bondage to any man," holding their own, and owing no
duty, no office; poorer, because unendowed by the royal authority, but holding themselves infinitely
higher, than the pensioners of the court.  Left behind, however, by their neighbours, who did
their part by society, and advanced with it, the Freiherren had been for the most part obliged
to give up their independence and fall into the system, but so far in the rear, that they ranked,
like the barons of France and England, as the last order of nobility.

Still, however, in the wilder and more mountainous parts of the country, some of the old families
of unreduced, truly free Freiherren lingered, their hand against every man, every man's hand
against them, and ever becoming more savage, both positively and still more proportionately,
as their isolation and the general progress around them became greater.  The House of Austria,
by gradually absorbing hereditary states into its own possessions, was, however, in the fifteenth
century, acquiring a preponderance that rendered its possession of the imperial throne almost
a matter of inheritance, and moreover rendered the supreme power far more effective than it
had ever previously been.  Freidrich III. a man still in full vigour, and with an able and
enterprising son already elected to the succession, was making his rule felt, and it was fast
becoming apparent that the days of the independent baronies were numbered, and that the only
choice that would soon be left them would be between making terms and being forcibly reduced.
Von Adlerstein was one of the oldest of these free families.  If the lords of the Eagle's Stone
had ever followed the great Konrads and Freidrichs of Swabia in their imperial days, their
descendants had taken care to forget the weakness, and believed themselves absolutely free
from all allegiance.

And the wildness of their territory was what might be expected from their hostility to all
outward influences.  The hostel, if it deserved the name, was little more than a charcoal-burner's
hut, hidden in the woods at the foot of the mountain, serving as a halting-place for the Freiherren's
retainers ere they attempted the ascent.  The inhabitants were allowed to ply their trade of
charring wood in the forest on condition of supplying the castle with charcoal, and of affording
a lodging to the followers on occasions like the present.

Grimy, half-clad, and brawny, with the whites of his eyes gleaming out of his black face, Jobst
the Kohler startled Christina terribly when she came into the outer room, and met him returning
from his night's work, with his long stoking-pole in his hand.  Her father shouted with laughter
at her alarm.

"Thou thinkest thyself in the land of the kobolds and dwarfs, my girl!  Never mind, thou wilt
see worse than honest Jobst before thou hast done.  Now, eat a morsel and be ready--mountain
air will make thee hungry ere thou art at the castle.  And, hark thee, Jobst, thou must give
stable-room to yon sumpter-mule for the present, and let some of my daughter's gear lie in
the shed."

"O father!" exclaimed Christina, in dismay.

"We'll bring it up, child, by piecemeal," he said in a low voice, "as we can; but if such a
freight came to the castle at once, my lady would have her claws on it, and little more wouldst
thou ever see thereof.  Moreover, I shall have enough to do to look after thee up the ascent,
without another of these city-bred beasts."

"I hope the poor mule will be well cared for.  I can pay for--" began Christina; but her father
squeezed her arm, and drowned her soft voice in his loud tones.

"Jobst will take care of the beast, as belonging to me.  Woe betide him, if I find it the worse!"--and
his added imprecations seemed unnecessary, so earnest were the asseverations of both the man
and his wife that the animal should be well cared for.

"Look you, Christina," said Hugh Sorel, as soon as he had placed her on her mule, and led her
out of hearing, "if thou hast any gold about thee, let it be the last thing thou ownest to
any living creature up there."  Then, as she was about to speak--"Do not even tell me.  I WILL
not know."  The caution did not add much to Christina's comfort; but she presently asked, "Where
is thy steed, father?"

"I sent him up to the castle with the Schneiderlein and Yellow Lorentz," answered the father.
"I shall have ado enough on foot with thee before we are up the Ladder."

The father and daughter were meantime proceeding along a dark path through oak and birch woods,
constantly ascending, until the oak grew stunted and disappeared, and the opening glades showed
steep, stony, torrent-furrowed ramparts of hillside above them, looking to Christina's eyes
as if she were set to climb up the cathedral side like a snail or a fly.  She quite gasped
for breath at the very sight, and was told in return to wait and see what she would yet say
to the Adlerstreppe, or Eagle's Ladder.  Poor child! she had no raptures for romantic scenery;
she knew that jagged peaks made very pretty backgrounds in illuminations, but she had much
rather have been in the smooth meadows of the environs of Ulm.  The Danube looked much more
agreeable to her, silver-winding between its green banks, than did the same waters leaping
down with noisy voices in their stony, worn beds to feed the river that she only knew in his
grave breadth and majesty.  Yet, alarmed as she was, there was something in the exhilaration
and elasticity of the mountain air that gave her an entirely new sensation of enjoyment and
life, and seemed to brace her limbs and spirits for whatever might be before her; and, willing
to show herself ready to be gratified, she observed on the freshness and sweetness of the air.

"Thou find'st it out, child?  Ay, 'tis worth all the feather-beds and pouncet-boxes in Ulm;
is it not?  That accursed Italian fever never left me till I came up here.  A man can scarce
draw breath in your foggy meadows below there.  Now then, here is the view open.  What think
you of the Eagle's Nest?"

For, having passed beyond the region of wood they had come forth upon the mountain-side.  A
not immoderately steep slope of boggy, mossy- looking ground covered with bilberries, cranberries,
&c. and with bare rocks here and there rising, went away above out of her ken; but the path
she was upon turned round the shoulder of the mountain, and to the left, on a ledge of rock
cut off apparently on their side by a deep ravine, and with a sheer precipice above and below
it, stood a red stone pile, with one turret far above the rest.

"And this is Schloss Adlerstein?" she exclaimed.

"That is Schloss Adlerstein; and there shalt thou be in two hours' time, unless the devil be
more than usually busy, or thou mak'st a fool of thyself.  If so, not Satan himself could save
thee."

It was well that Christina had resolution to prevent her making a fool of herself on the spot,
for the thought of the pathway turned her so dizzy that she could only shut her eyes, trusting
that her father did not see her terror.  Soon the turn round to the side of the mountain was
made, and the road became a mere track worn out on the turf on the hillside, with an abyss
beneath, close to the edge of which the mule, of course, walked.

When she ventured to look again, she perceived that the ravine was like an enormous crack open
on the mountain-side, and that the stream that formed the Debateable Ford flowed down the bottom
of it.  The ravine itself went probably all the way up the mountain, growing shallower as it
ascended higher; but here, where Christina beheld it, it was extremely deep, and savagely desolate
and bare.  She now saw that the Eagle's Ladder was a succession of bare gigantic terraces of
rock, of which the opposite side of the ravine was composed, and on one of which stood the
castle.  It was no small mystery to her how it had ever been built, or how she was ever to
get there.  She saw in the opening of the ravine the green meadows and woods far below; and,
when her father pointed out to her the Debateable Ford, apparently much nearer to the castle
than they themselves were at present, she asked why they had so far overpassed the castle,
and come by this circuitous course.

"Because," said Hugh, "we are not eagles outright.  Seest thou not, just beyond the castle
court, this whole crag of ours breaks off short, falls like the town wall straight down into
the plain?  Even this cleft that we are crossing by, the only road a horse can pass, breaks
off short and sudden too, so that the river is obliged to take leaps which nought else but
a chamois could compass.  A footpath there is, and Freiherr Eberhard takes it at all times,
being born to it; but even I am too stiff for the like.  Ha! ha!  Thy uncle may talk of the
Kaiser and his League, but he would change his note if we had him here."

"Yet castles have been taken by hunger," said Christina.

"What, knowest thou so much?--True!  But look you," pointing to a white foamy thread that descended
the opposite steeps, "yonder beck dashes through the castle court, and it never dries; and
see you the ledge the castle stands on?  It winds on out of your sight, and forms a path which
leads to the village of Adlerstein, out on the other slope of the mountains; and ill were it
for the serfs if they victualled not the castle well."

The fearful steepness of the ground absorbed all Christina's attention.  The road, or rather
stairs, came down to the stream at the bottom of the fissure, and then went again on the other
side up still more tremendous steeps, which Hugh climbed with a staff, sometimes with his hand
on the bridle, but more often only keeping a watchful eye on the sure-footed mule, and an arm
to steady his daughter in the saddle when she grew absolutely faint with giddiness at the abyss
around her.  She was too much in awe of him to utter cry or complaint, and, when he saw her
effort to subdue her mortal terror, he was far from unkind, and let her feel his protecting
strength.

Presently a voice was heard above--"What, Sorel, hast brought her! Trudchen is wearying for her."

The words were in the most boorish dialect and pronunciation, the stranger to Christina's ears,
because intercourse with foreign merchants, and a growing affectation of Latinism, had much
refined the city language to which she was accustomed; and she was surprised to perceive by
her father's gesture and address that the speaker must be one of the lords of the castle. 
She looked up, and saw on the pathway above her a tall, large-framed young man, his skin dyed
red with sun and wind, in odd contrast with his pale shaggy hair, moustache, and beard, as
though the weather had tanned the one and bleached the other.  His dress was a still shabbier
buff suit than her father had worn, but with a richly-embroidered belt sustaining a hunting-horn
with finely-chased ornaments of tarnished silver, and an eagle's plume was fastened into his
cap with a large gold Italian coin.  He stared hard at the maiden, but vouchsafed her no token
of greeting--only distressed her considerably by distracting her father's attention from her
mule by his questions about the journey, all in the same rude, coarse tone and phraseology.
Some amount of illusion was dispelled.  Christina was quite prepared to find the mountain lords
dangerous ruffians, but she had expected the graces of courtesy and high birth; but, though
there was certainly an air of command and freedom of bearing about the present specimen, his
manners and speech were more uncouth than those of any newly-caught apprentice of her uncle,
and she could not help thinking that her good aunt Johanna need not have troubled herself about
the danger of her taking a liking to any such young Freiherr as she here beheld.

By this time a last effort of the mule had climbed to the level of the castle.  As her father
had shown her, there was precipice on two sides of the building; on the third, a sheer wall
of rock going up to a huge height before it reached another of the Eagle's Steps; and on the
fourth, where the gateway was, the little beck had been made to flow in a deep channel that
had been hollowed out to serve as a moat, before it bounded down to swell the larger water-course
in the ravine.  A temporary bridge had been laid across; the drawbridge was out of order, and
part of Hugh's business had been to procure materials for mending its apparatus.  Christina
was told to dismount and cross on foot.  The unrailed board, so close to the abyss, and with
the wild water foaming above and below, was dreadful to her; and, though she durst not speak,
she hung back with an involuntary shudder, as her father, occupied with the mule, did not think
of giving her a hand.  The young baron burst out into an unrestrained laugh--a still greater
shock to her feelings; but at the same time he roughly took her hand, and almost dragged her
across, saying, "City bred--ho, ho!"  "Thanks, sir," she strove to say, but she was very near
weeping with the terror and strangeness of all around.

