"After a little this roof began to part, and I was afraid I was going to be drowned, but just
then another house with a shingle roof floated by, and I managed to crawl on it, and floated
down until nearly dead with cold, when I was saved. After I was freed from the house I did
not see my father. My grandfather was on a tree, but he must have been drowned, as the waters
were rising fast. John Kintz, Jr., was also on a tree. Miss Mary Kintz and Mrs. Mary Kintz
I saw drown. Miss Smith was also drowned. John Hirsch was in a tree, but the four children
were drowned. The scenes were terrible. Live bodies and corpses were floating down with me
and away from me. I would see persons, hear them shriek, and then they would disappear. All
along the line were people who were trying to save us, but they could do nothing, and only
a few were caught."

This boy's story is but one incident, and shows what happened to one family. No one knows what
has happened to the hundreds who were in the path of the rushing water. It is impossible to
get anything in the way of news save meagre details.

An eye-witness at Bolivar Block Station tells a story of unparalleled heroism that occurred
at the lower bridge which crosses the Conemaugh at this point. A. Young, with two women was
seen coming down the river on a part of the floor. At the upper bridge a rope was thrown down
to them. This they all failed to catch. Between the two bridges he was noticed to point towards
the elder woman, who, it is supposed, was his mother. He was then seen to instruct the women
how to catch the rope that was lowered from the other bridge. Down came the raft with a rush.
The brave man stood with his arms around the two women.

Unavailing Courage.

As they swept under the bridge he seized the rope. He was jerked violently away from the two
women, who failed to get a hold on the rope. Seeing that they would not be rescued, he dropped
the rope and fell back on the raft, which floated on down the river. The current washed their
frail craft in toward the bank. The young man was enabled to seize hold of a branch of a tree.
He aided the two women to get up into the tree.

He held on with his hands and rested his feet on a pile of driftwood. A piece of floating débris
struck the drift, sweeping it away. The man hung with his body immersed in the water. A pile
of drift soon collected and he was enabled to get another insecure footing. Up the river there
was a sudden crash, and a section of the bridge was swept away and floated down the stream,
striking the tree and washing it away. All three were thrown into the water and were drowned
before the eyes of the horrified spectators just opposite the town of Bolivar.

Early in the evening a woman with her two children was seen to pass under the bridge at Bolivar
clinging to the roof of a coal house. A rope was lowered to her, but she shook her head and
refused to desert the children. It was rumored that all three were saved at Cokeville, a few
miles below Bolivar. A later report from Lockport says that the residents succeeded in rescuing
five people from the flood, two women and three men. One man succeeded in getting out of the
water unaided. They were taken care of by the people of the town.

A Child's Faith.

A little girl passed under the bridge just before dark. She was kneeling on a part of a floor
and had her hands clasped as if in prayer. Every effort was made to save her, but they all
proved futile. A railroader who was standing by remarked that the piteous appearance of the
little waif brought tears to his eyes. All night long the crowd stood about the ruins of the
bridge which had been swept away at Bolivar. The water rushed past with a roar, carrying with
it parts of houses, furniture and trees. The flood had evidently spent its force up the valley.
No more living persons were being carried past. Watchers with lanterns remained along the banks
until daybreak, when the first view of the awful devastation of the flood was witnessed.

Along the bank lay remnants of what had once been dwelling houses and stores; here and there
was an uprooted tree. Piles of drift lay about, in some of which bodies of the victims of the
flood will be found. Rescuing parties are being formed in all towns along the railroad. Houses
have been thrown open to refugees, and every possible means is being used to protect the homeless.

Wrecking Trains to the Rescue.

The wrecking trains of the Pennsylvania Railroad are slowly making their way east to the unfortunate
city. No effort was being made to repair the wrecks, and the crews of the trains were organized
into rescuing parties, and an effort will be made to send out a mail train this morning. The
chances are that they will go no further east than Florence. There is absolutely no news from
Johnstown. The little city is entirely cut off from communication with the outside world. The
damage done is inestimable. No one can tell its extent.

The little telegraph stations along the road are filled with anxious groups of men who have
friends and relatives in Johnstown. The smallest item of news is eagerly seized upon and circulated.
If favorable they have a moment of relief, if not their faces become more gloomy. Harry Fisher,
a young telegraph operator who was at Bolivar when the first rush began, says:--"We knew nothing
of the disaster until we noticed the river slowly rising and then more rapidly. News then reached
us from Johnstown that the dam at South Fork had burst. Within three hours the water in the
river rose at least twenty feet. Shortly before six o'clock ruins of houses, beds, household
utensils, barrels and kegs came floating past the bridges. At eight o'clock the water was within
six feet of the road-bed of the bridge. The wreckage floated past without stopping for at least
two hours. Then it began to lessen, and night coming suddenly upon us we could see no more.
The wreckage was floating by for a long time before the first living persons passed. Fifteen
people that I saw were carried down by the river. One of these, a boy, was saved, and three
of them were drowned just directly below the town. It was an awful sight and one that I will
not soon forget."

Hundreds of animals lost their lives. The bodies of horses, dogs and chickens floated past.
The little boy who was rescued at Bolivar had two dogs as companions during his fearful ride.
The dogs were drowned just before reaching the bridge. One old mule swam past. Its shoulders
were torn, but it was alive when swept past the town.

Saved from a Watery Grave to Perish by Flames.

After a long, weary ride of eight or nine miles over the worst of country roads New Florence,
fourteen miles from Johnstown, was reached. The road bed between this place and Bolivar was
washed out in many places. The trackmen and the wreck crews were all night in the most dangerous
portions of the road.

The last man from Johnstown brought the information that scarcely a house remained in the city.
The upper portion above the railroad bridge had been completely submerged. The water dammed
up against the viaduct, the wreckage and débris finishing the work that the torrent had failed
to accomplish. The bridge at Johnstown proved too stanch for the fury of the water. It is a
heavy piece of masonry, and was used as a viaduct by the old Pennsylvania Canal. Some of the
top stones were displaced.

The story reached here a short time ago that a family consisting of father and mother and nine
children were washed away in a creek at Lockport. The mother managed to reach the shore, but
the husband and children were carried out into the Conemaugh to drown. The woman is crazed
over the terrible event.

A Night of Horror.

After night settled down upon the mountains the horror of the scenes was enhanced. Above the
roar of the water could be heard the piteous appeals from the unfortunate as they were carried
by. To add also to the terror of the night, a brilliant illumination lit up the sky. This illumination
could be plainly seen from this place.

A message received from Sang Hollow stated that this light came from a hundred burning wrecks
of houses that were piled upon the Johnstown Bridge. A supervisor from up the road brought
the information that the wreckage at Johnstown was piled up forty feet above the bridge.

The startling news came in that more than a thousand lives had been lost. This cannot be substantiated.
By actual count one hundred and ten people had been seen floating past Sang Hollow before dark.
Forty-seven were counted passing New Florence and the number had diminished to eight at Bolivar.
The darkness coming on stopped any further count, and it was only by the agonizing cries that
rang out above the waters that it was known that a human being was being carried to death.

An Irresistible Torrent.

The scenes along the river were wild in the extreme. Although the water was subsiding, still
as it dashed against the rocks that filled the narrow channel of the Conemaugh its spray was
carried high up on the shore. The towns all along the line of the railroad from Johnstown west
had received visitations. Many of the houses in New Florence were partially under water. At
Bolivar the whole lower part of the town was submerged.

The ride over the mountain road gave one a good idea of the cause of this disaster. Every creek
was a rushing river and every rivulet a raging torrent. The ground was water soaked, and when
the immense mountain district that drains into the Conemaugh above South Fork is taken into
consideration the terrible volume of water that must have accumulated can be realized. Gathering,
as it did, within a few minutes, it came against the breast of the South Fork dam with irresistible
force. The frightened inhabitants along the Conemaugh describe the flood as something awful.
The first rise came almost without warning, and the torrent came roaring down the mountain
passes in one huge wave, several feet in height. After the first swell the water continued
to rise at a fearful rate.

Daylight Brings No Relief.

The gray morning light does not seem to show either hope or mitigation of the awful fears of
the night. It has been a hard night to everybody. The overworked newspaper men, who have been
without rest and food since yesterday afternoon, and the operators who have handled the messages
are already preparing for the work of the day. There has been a long wrangle over the possession
of a special train for the press between rival newspaper men, and it has delayed the work of
others who are anxious to get further east.

Even here, so far from the washed-out towns, seven bodies have been found. Two were in a tree,
a man and a woman, where the flood had carried them. The country people are coming into the
town in large numbers telling stories of disaster along the river banks in sequestered places.

Floating Houses.

John McCarthey, a carpenter, who lives in Johnstown, reached here about four o'clock. He left
Johnstown at half-past four yesterday afternoon and says the scene then was indescribable.
The people had been warned early in the morning to move to the highlands, but they did not
heed the warning, although it was repeated a number of times up to one o'clock, when the water
poured into Cinder street several feet deep. Then the houses began rocking to and fro, and
finally the force of the current carried buildings across streets and vacant lots and dashed
them against each other, breaking them into fragments. These buildings were full of the people
who had laughed at the cry of danger. McCarthey says that in some cases he counted as many
as fifteen persons clinging to buildings. McCarthey's wife was with him. She had three sisters,
who lived near her. They saw the house in which these girls lived carried away, and then they
could endure the situation no longer and hurried away. The husband feared his wife would go
crazy. They went inland along country roads until they reached here.

It is said to be next to impossible to get to Johnstown proper to-day in any manner except
by rowboat. The roads are cut up so that even the countrymen refuse to travel over them in
their roughest vehicles. The only hope is to get within about three miles by a special train
or by hand car.

The Dead Cast Up.

Nine dead bodies have been picked up within the limits of this borough since daylight. None
of them has yet been recognized. Five are women. One woman, probably twenty-five years old,
had clasped in her arms a babe about six months old. The body of a young man was discovered
in the branches of a huge tree which had been carried down the stream. All the orchard crops
and shrubbery along the banks of the river have been destroyed.

The body of another woman has just been discovered in the river here. Her foot was seen above
the surface of the water and a rope was fastened about it.

A Roof as a Raft.

John Weber and his wife, an old couple, Michael Metzgar and John Forney were rescued near here
early this morning. They had been carried from their home in Cambria City on the roof of the
house. There were seven others on the roof when it was carried off, all of whom were drowned.
They were unknown to Weber, having drifted on to the roof from floating débris. Weber and wife
were thoroughly drenched and were almost helpless from exposure. They were unable to walk when
taken off the roof at this place. They are now at the hotel here.

Hundreds of people from Johnstown and up river towns are hurrying here in search of friends
and relatives who were swept away in last night's flood. The most intense excitement prevails.
The street corners are crowded with pale and anxious people who tell of the calamity with bated
breath. Squire Bennett has charge of the dead bodies, and he is having them properly cared
for. They are being prepared for burial, but will be held here for identification.

Four boys have just come from the river bank above here. They say that on the opposite side
a number of bodies can be seen lying in the mud. They found the body of a woman on this side
badly bruised.

R.B. Rodgers, Justice of the Peace at Nineveh, has wired the Coroner at Greensburg that one
hundred dead bodies have been found at that place, and he asks what is to be done with them.
From this one can estimate that the loss of life will reach over one thousand.

A report has just been received that twenty persons are on an island near Nineveh and that
men and women are on a partly submerged tree.

A report has just reached here that at least one hundred people were consumed in the flames
at Johnstown last night, but it cannot be verified here. The air is filled with thrilling and
most incredible stories, but none of them have as yet been confirmed. It is certain, however,
that even the worst cannot be imagined.

Warnings Remembered Too Late.

It is very evident that more lives have been lost because of foolish incredulity than from
ignorance of the danger. For more than a year there have been fears of an accident of just
such a character. The foundations of the dam were considered to be shaky early last spring
and many increasing leakages were reported from time to time.

According to people who live in Johnstown and other towns on the line of the river, ample time
was given to the Johnstown folks by the railroad officials and by other gentlemen of standing
and reputation. In dozens, yes, hundreds of cases, this warning was utterly disregarded, and
those who heeded it early in the day were looked upon as cowards, and many jeers were uttered
by lips that now are cold among the rank grass beside the river.

There has grown up a bitter feeling among the surviving sufferers against those who owned the
lake and dam, and damage suits will be plentiful by and by.

The dam in Stony Creek, above Johnstown, broke about noon yesterday and thousands of feet of
lumber passed down the stream. It is impossible to tell what the loss of life will be, but
at nine o'clock the Coroner of Westmoreland county sent a message out saying that 100 bodies
had been recovered at Nineveh, halfway from here to Johnstown. Sober minded people do not hesitate
to say that 1,200 is moderate.

Fire's Awful Work.

"How can anybody tell how many are dead?" said a railroad engineer this morning. "I have been
at Long Hollow with my train since eleven o'clock yesterday, and I have seen fully five hundred
persons lost in the flood."

J.W. Esch, a brave railroad employee, saved sixteen lives at Nineveh.

The most awful culmination of the awful night was the roasting of a hundred or more persons
in mid-flood. The ruins of houses, old buildings and other structures swept against the new
railroad bridge at Johnstown, and from an overturned stove or some such cause the upper part
of the wreckage caught fire.

There were crowds of men, women and children on the wreck, and their screams were soon heard.
They were literally roasted on the flood. Soon after the fire burned itself out other persons
were thrown against the mass. There were some fifty people in sight when the ruins suddenly
broke up and were swept under the bridge into the darkness.

The latest news from Johnstown is that but two houses could be seen in the town. It is also
said that only three houses remain in Cambria City.

The first authentic news was from W.N. Hays, of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, who reached
New Florence at nine o'clock. He says the valley towns are annihilated.

Destruction at Blairsville.

The flood in the Conemaugh River at this point is the heaviest ever known here. At this hour
the railroad bridge between here and Blairsville intersection has been swept away, and also
the new bridge at Coketon, half a mile below. It is now feared that the iron bridge at the
lower end of this town will go. A living woman and dead man, supposed to be her husband, were
seen going under the railroad bridge. They were seen to come from under the bridge safely,
but shortly disappeared and were seen no more.

A great many families lose their household goods. The river is running full of timber, houses,
goods, etc. The loss will be heavy. The excitement here is very great. The river is still rising.
There are some families below the town in the second story of their houses who cannot get out.
It is feared that if the water goes much higher the loss of life will be very great. The railroad
company had fourteen cars of coal on their bridge when it went down, and all were swept down
the river.

The town bridge has just succumbed to the seething floods, whose roar can be heard a long distance.
The water is still rising and it is thought that the West Pennsylvania Railroad will be without
a single bridge. It is reported that a man went down with the Blairsville bridge while he was
adjusting a headlight.

Havoc about Altoona.

The highest and most destructive flood that has visited this place for fifty years occurred
yesterday. It has been raining continuously for the past twenty-four hours. The Juniata river
is ten feet above low water mark and is still rising. The lower streets of Gaysport bordering
on the river bank are submerged, and the water is two feet deep on the first floors of the
houses there. The water rose so rapidly that the people had to be removed from the houses in
boats and wagons. Three railroad trestles and a number of bridges over the streams have been
carried away, and railroad travel between this place and the surrounding towns has been interrupted.

Property of all kinds was carried off. The truck gardens and grain fields along the river were
utterly destroyed, and the fences carried away. The iron furnaces and rolling mills at this
place and Duncanville were compelled to shut down on account of the high water. Keene & Babcock
lost 300,000 brick in the kiln ready to burn, G.W. Rhodes 350,000, and Joseph Hart 15,000.
It is estimated that the flood has done over $50,000 damage in this vicinity. The fences of
the Blair County Agricultural Society were destroyed.

Alarm at York.

Last night was one of great alarm here. It rained steadily all day, some of the showers being
severe. The great flood of 1884 is forcibly recalled. Many families are moving out. At half-past
one A.M. a general alarm was sounded on the bells of the city.

The flood in the Susquehanna River here reached its greatest height about six o'clock this
morning, when all bridges save one were under water. Business places and residences in the
low section were flooded to a great extent, and the damage in this city alone amounts to $25,000
so far. The injury to the Spring Grove paper mills near this city is heavy. By noon the water
had fallen sufficiently to restore travel over nearly all the bridges.

A number of bridges in the county have been swept away, and the loss in the county exclusive
of the city is estimated at $100,000.

In attempting to catch some driftwood James McIlvaine lost his balance and fell into the raging
current and was drowned.

Seven bodies have been taken from the water and débris on the river banks at New Florence.
One body has also been taken from the river at this point, that of a young girl. None of them
have been identified.

The whole face of the country between here and New Florence is under water, and houses, bridges
and buildings fill the fields and even perch upon the hillside all the way to Johnstown. Great
flocks of crows are already filling the valley, while buzzards are almost as frequently seen.
The banks of the river are lined with people who are looking as well for booty as for bodies.
Much valuable property was carried away in the houses as well as from houses not washed away.

The river has fallen again into its channel, and nothing in the stream itself except its red,
angry color shows the wild horror of last night. It has fallen fully twenty feet since midnight,
and by to-night it will have attained its normal depth.

Painful Scenes.

At all points from Greensburg to Long Hollow, the limit of the present trouble, scores of people
throng the stations begging and beseeching railroad men on the repair trains to take them aboard,
as they are almost frenzied with anxiety and apprehension in regard to their friends who live
at or near Johnstown. Strong men are as tearful as the women who join in the request.

Pitiable sights and scenes multiply more and more rapidly. The Conemaugh is one great valley
of mourning. Those who have not lost friends have lost their house or their substance, and
apparently the grief for the one is as poignant as for the other.

They Were Warned.

The great volume of water struck Johnstown about half-past five in the afternoon. It did not
find the people unprepared, as they had had notice from South Fork that the dam was threatening
to go. Many, however, disregarded the notice and remained in their houses in the lower part
of the city and were caught before they could get out.

Superintendent Pitcairn, of the Pennsylvania Railroad, who has spent the entire day in assisting
not only those who were afflicted by the flood, but also in an attempt to reopen his road,
went home this morning. Before he left he issued an order to all Pennsylvania Railroad employees
to keep a sharp lookout for bodies, both in the river and in the bushes, and to return them
to their friends.

Assistant Superintendent Trump is still on the ground near Lone Hollow directing the movements
of gravel and construction trains, which are arriving as fast as they can be fitted up and
started out. The roadbeds of both the Pennsylvania and the West Pennsylvania railroads are
badly damaged, and it will cost the latter, especially from the Bolivar Junction to Saltsburg,
many thousands of dollars to repair injuries to embankments alone.

In Pittsburg there was but one topic of conversation, and that was the Johnstown deluge. Crowds
of eager watchers all day long besieged the newspaper bulletin boards and rendered streets
impassable in their vicinity. Many of them had friends or relatives in the stricken district,
and "Names!" "Names!" was their cry. But there were no names. The storm which had perhaps swept
away their loved ones had also carried away all means of communication and their vigil was
unrewarded. It is not yet known whether the telegraph operator at Johnstown is dead or alive.
The nearest point to that city which can be reached to-night is New Florence, and the one wire
there is used almost constantly by orders for coffins, embalming fluid and preparing special
cars to carry the recovered dead to their homes.

Along the banks of the now turbulent Allegheny were placed watchers for dead bodies, and all
wreckage was carefully scanned for the dead. The result of this vigilance was the recovery
of one body, that of a woman floating down on a pile of débris. Seven other bodies were seen,
but could not be reached owing to the swift moving wreckage by which they were surrounded.

A Heartrending Sight.

A railroad conductor who arrived in the city this morning said:--"There is no telling how many
lives are lost. We got as far as Bolivar, and I tell you it is a terrible sight. The body of
a boy was picked up by some of us there, and there were eleven bodies recovered altogether.
I do not think that anyone got into Johnstown, and it is my opinion that they will not get
in very soon. No one who is not on the grounds has any idea of the damage done. It will be
at least a week before the extent of this flood is known, and then I think many bodies will
never be recovered."

Assistant Superintendent Wilson, of the West Pennsylvania Railroad, received the following
despatch from Nineveh to-day:--

"There appears to be a large number of people lodged in the trees and rubbish along the line.
Many are alive. Rescuing parties should be advised at every station."

Another telegram from Nineveh said that up to noon 175 bodies had been taken from the river
at that point.

The stage of water in the Allegheny this afternoon became so alarming that residents living
in the low-lying districts began to remove their household effects to a higher grade. The tracks
of the Pittsburgh and Western Railroad are under water in several places, and great inconvenience
is felt in moving trains.

Criminal Negligence.

It was stated at the office of the Pennsylvania Railroad early this morning that the deaths
would run up into the thousands rather than hundreds, as was at first supposed. Despatches
received state that the stream of human beings that was swept before the floods was pitiful
to behold. Men, women and children were carried along frantically shrieking for help. Rescue
was impossible.

Husbands were swept past their wives, and children were borne along at a terrible speed to
certain death before the eyes of their terrorized and frantic parents. It was said at the depot
that it was impossible to estimate the number whose lives were lost in the flood. It will simply
be a matter of conjecture for several days as to who was lost and who escaped.

The people of Johnstown were warned of the possibility of the bursting of the dam during the
morning, but very few if any of the inhabitants took the warning seriously. Shortly after noon
it gave way about five miles above Johnstown, and sweeping everything before it burst upon
the town with terrible force.

Everything was carried before it, and not an instant's time was given to seek safety. Houses
were demolished, swept from their foundations and carried in the flood to a culvert near the
town. Here a mass of all manner of débris soon lodged, and by evening it had dammed the water
back into the city over the tops of many of the still remaining chimneys.

The Dam Always a Menace.

Assistant Superintendent Trump, of the Pennsylvania, is at Conemaugh, but the officials at
the depot had not been able to receive a line from him until as late as half-past two o'clock
this morning. It was said also that it will be impossible to get a train through either one
way or the other for at least two or three days. This applies also to the mails, as there is
absolutely no way of getting mails through.

"We were afraid of that lake," said a gentleman who had lived in Johnstown for years, "we were
afraid of that lake seven years ago. No one could see the immense height to which that artificial
dam had been built without fearing the tremendous power of the water behind it. I doubt if
there was a man or woman in Johnstown who at some time or other had not feared and spoken of
the terrible disaster that has now come.

"People wondered and asked why the dam was not strengthened, as it certainly had become weak,
but nothing was done, and by and by they talked less and less about it as nothing happened,
though now and then some would shake their heads as though conscious that the fearful day would
come some time when their worst fears would be transcended by the horror of the actual occurrence.

Converted Into a Lake.

"Johnstown is in a hollow between two rivers, and that lake must have swept over the city at
a depth of forty feet. It cannot be, it is impossible that such an awful thing could happen
to a city of ten thousand inhabitants, and if it has, thousands have lost their lives, and
men are to blame for it, for warnings have been uttered a thousand times and have received
no attention."

The body of a Welsh woman, sixty years of age, was taken from the river near the suspension
bridge, at ten o'clock this morning. Four other bodies were seen, but owing to the mass of
wreckage which is coming down they could not be recovered, and passed down the Ohio River.

A citizens' meeting has been called to devise means to aid the sufferers. The Pennsylvania
Railroad officials have already placed cars on Liberty street for the purpose of receiving
provisions and clothing, and up to this hour many prominent merchants have made heavy donations.

Anxiety of the People.

The difficulty of obtaining definite information added tremendously to the excitement and apprehension
of the people in Pittsburgh who had relatives and friends at the scene of the disaster.

Members of the South Fork Club, and among them some of the most eminent men in the Pittsburgh
financial and mercantile world, were in or near Johnstown, and several of them were accompanied
by their wives and families. There happened to be also quite a number of residents of Johnstown
in Pittsburgh, and when the news of the horror was confirmed and the railroads bulletined the
fact that no trains would go east last night the scene at Union Depot was profoundly pathetic
and exciting. But two trains were sent out by the Pennsylvania road from the Union station
at Pittsburgh.

A despatch states that the Cambria Iron Company's plant on the north side of the Conemaugh
River at Johnstown is a complete wreck. Until this despatch was received it was not thought
that this portion of the plant had been seriously injured. It was known that the portion of
the plant located on the south bank of the river was washed away, and this was thought to be
the extent of the damage to the property of that immense corporation. The plant is said to
be valued at $5,000,000.

CHAPTER II.

Death and Desolation.

The terrible situation on the second day after the great disaster only intensifies the horror.
As information becomes more full and accurate, it does not abate one tittle of the awful havoc.
Rather it adds to it, and gives a thousand-fold terror to the dreadful calamity.

Not only do the scenes which are described appear all the more dreadful, as is natural, the
nearer they are brought to the imagination, but it seems only too probable that the final reckoning
in loss of life and material wealth will prove far more stupendous than has even yet been supposed.

The very greatness of the destruction prevents the possibility of an accurate estimate. Beneath
the ghastly ruins of the once happy towns and villages along the pathway of the deluge, who
shall say how many victims lie buried? Amid the rocks and woods that border the broad track
of the waters, who shall say how many lie bruised and mangled and unrecognizable, wedged between
boulders or massed amid débris and rubbish, or hidden beneath the heaped-up deposits of earth,
and whether all of them shall ever be found and given the last touching rites?

Already the air of the little valley, which four days ago was smiling with all the health of
nature and the contentment of industrious man, is waxing pestiferous with the awful odor of
decaying human bodies. Buzzards, invited by their disgusting instinct, gather for a promised
feast, and sit and glower on neighboring perches or else circle round and round in the blue
empyrean over the location of unfriended corpses, known only to their keen sense of smell or
vision.

But another kind of buzzard, more disgusting, more hideous, more vile, has hastened to this
scene of woe and anguish and desolation to exult over it to his profit. Thugs and thieves in
unclean hordes have mysteriously turned up at Johnstown and its vicinity, as hyenas in the
desert seem to spring bodily out of the deadly sand whenever the corpse of a gallant warrior,
abandoned by his kind, lies putrefying in the night.

There is a cry from the afflicted community for the policing of the devastated region, and
there is no doubt it is greatly needed. Happily, Nemesis does not sleep this time in the face
of such provocation as is given her by these atrociously inhuman human beings. It is a satisfaction
to record that something more than a half dozen of them have been dealt with as promptly and
as mercilessly as they deserve. For such as they there should be no code of pity.

There is an inexhaustible store of pathos and heroism in the tale of this disaster. Of course,
in all of its awful details it never can be fitly written. One reason is that too many of the
witnesses of its more fearful phases "sleep the sleep that knows not waking." But there is
a greater reason, and that is that there is a point in the intenser actuality of things at
which all human language fails to do justice to it. Yet--as simply told as possible--there
are many incidents of this great tragedy which nothing has ever surpassed or ever can surpass
in impressiveness. It is a consolation, too, that human nature at such times does betray here
and there a gleam of that side of it which gives forth a reflection of the ideal manhood or
womanhood. Bits of heroism and of tender devotedness scattered throughout this dark, dismal
picture of destruction and despair light it up with wonderful beauty, and while they bring
tears to the eyes of the sternest reader, will serve as a grateful relief from the pervading
hue of horror and blackness.

There is the very gravest need of vigorous relief measures in favor of the survivors of the
flood. A spontaneous movement in that direction has been begun, but as yet lacks the efficiency
only to be derived from a general and organized co-operation.

Complete Annihilation.

When Superintendent Pitcairn telegraphed from Johnstown to Pittsburgh Friday night that the
town was annihilated he came very close to the facts of the case, although he had not seen
the ill-fated city. To say that Johnstown is a wreck is but stating the facts of the case.
Nothing like it was ever seen in this country. Where long rows of dwelling houses and business
blocks stood forty-eight hours ago, ruin and desolation now reign supreme.

The losses, however, are as nothing compared to the frightful sacrifices of precious human
lives. During Sunday Johnstown has been drenched with the tears of stricken mortals, and the
air is filled with sobs that come from breaking hearts. There are scenes enacted here every
hour and every minute that affect all beholders profoundly. When brave men die in battle, for
country or for principle, their loss can be reconciled to the stern destinies of life. When
homes are torn asunder in an instant, and the loved ones hurled from the arms of loving and
devoted mothers, there is an element of sadness connected with the tragedy that touches every
heart.

The loss of life is simply dreadful. The most conservative people declare that the number will
reach 5000, while others confidently assert that 8000 or 10,000 have perished.

How Johnstown Looks after Flood and Fire Have Done Their Worst.

An eye-witness writing from Pittsburgh says:--We have just returned from a trip through what
is left of Johnstown. The view from beyond is almost impossible to describe. To look upon it
is a sight that neither war nor catastrophe can equal. House is piled upon house, not as we
have seen in occasional floods of the the Western rivers, but the remains of two and four storied
buildings piled upon the top of one another.

The ruins of what is known as the Club House are in perhaps the best condition of any in that
portion of the town, but it is certainly damaged beyond possibility of repair. On the upper
floor five bodies are lying unidentified. One of them, a woman of genteel birth, judging by
her dress, is locked in one of the small rooms to prevent a possibility of spoliation by wreckers,
who are flocking to the spot from all directions and taking possession of everything they can
get hold of.

Here and there bodies can be seen sticking in the ruins. Some of the most prominent citizens
are to be seen working with might and main to get at the remains of relatives whom they have
located.

There is no doubt that, wild as the estimates of the loss of life and damage to property have
been, it is even larger than there is any idea of.

Close on to 2,000 residences lie in kindling wood at the lower end of the town.

Freaks of the Flood.

An idea of the eccentricity of the flood may be gathered from the fact that houses that were
situated at Woodvale and points above Johnstown are piled at the lower end of the town, while
some massive houses have been lifted and carried from the lower end as far as the cemetery
at the extreme upper portion of the town. All through the ruins are scattered the most costly
furniture and store goods of all kinds.

Thieves are Busy.

I stood on the keyboard and strings of a piano while I watched a number of thieves break into
the remnants of houses and pilfer them, while others again had got at a supply of fine groceries
and had broken into a barrel of fine brandy, and were fairly steeping themselves in it. I met
quite a number of Pittsburghers in the ruins looking for friends and relatives. If the skiffs
which were expected from Pittsburgh were there they would be of vast assistance in reaching
the ruins, which are separated by the stream of water descending from the hills. A great fear
is felt that there will be some difficulty in restoring the stream to its proper channel. Its
course now lies right along Main street, and it is about two hundred yards wide.

Something should be done to get the bodies of the dead decently taken care of. The ruins are
reeking with the smell of decaying bodies. Right at the edge of the ruins the decaying body
of a stout colored woman is lying like the remains of an animal, without any one to identify
and take care of it.

Lynching the Ghouls.

A number of Hungarians collected about a number of bodies at Cambria which had been washed
up and began rifling the trunks. After they had secured all the contents they turned their
attention to the dead.

The ghastly spectacle presented by the distorted features of those who had lost their lives
during the flood had no influence upon the ghouls, who acted more like wild beasts than human
beings. They took every article from the clothing on the dead bodies, not leaving anything
of value or anything that would serve to identify the remains.

After the miscreants had removed all their plunder to dry ground a dispute arose over a division
of the spoils. A pitched battle followed and for a time the situation was alarming. Knives
and clubs were used freely. As a result several of the combatants were seriously wounded and
left on the ground, their fellow countrymen not making any attempt to remove them from the
field of strife.

JOHNSTOWN, PA., June 2, 11 A.M.

They have just hung a man over near the railroad to the telegraph pole for cutting the finger
off of a dead woman in order to get a ring.

Vengeance, Swift and Sure.

The way of the transgressor in the desolated valley of the Conemaugh is hard indeed. Each hour
reveals some new and horrible story of suffering and outrage, and every succeeding hour brings
news of swift and merited punishment meted out to the fiends who have dared to desecrate the
stiff and mangled corpses in the city of the dead, and torture the already half crazed victims
of the cruelest of modern catastrophes.

As the roads to the lands round about are opened tales of almost indescribable horror come
to light, and deeds of the vilest nature, perpetrated in the darkness of the night, are brought
to light.

Followed by Avenging Farmers.

Just as the shadows began to fall upon the earth last evening a party of thirteen Hungarians
were noticed stealthily picking their way along the banks of the Conemaugh toward Sang Hollow.
Suspicious of their purpose, several farmers armed themselves and started in pursuit. Soon
their most horrible fears were realized. The Hungarians were out for plunder.

Lying upon the shore they came upon the dead and mangled body of a woman upon whose person
there were a number of trinkets and jewelry and two diamond rings. In their eagerness to secure
the plunder, the Hungarians got into a squabble, during which one of the number severed the
finger upon which were the rings, and started on a run with his fearful prize. The revolting
nature of the deed so wrought upon the pursuing farmers, who by this time were close at hand,
that they gave immediate chase. Some of the Hungarians showed fight, but being outnumbered
were compelled to flee for their lives. Nine of the brutes escaped, but four were literally
driven into the surging river and to their death. The inhuman monster whose atrocious act has
been described was among the number of the involuntary suicides. Another incident of even greater
moment has just been brought to notice.

Anxious to be a Murderer.

At half-past eight this morning an old railroader who had walked from Sang Hollow stepped up
to a number of men who were congregated on the platform stations at Curranville and said:--"Gentlemen,
had I a shotgun with me half an hour ago I would now be a murderer, yet with no fear of ever
having to suffer for my crime.

"Two miles below here I watched three men going along the banks stealing the jewels from the
bodies of the dead wives and daughters of men who have been robbed of all they held dear on earth."

He had no sooner finished the last sentence than five burly men, with looks of terrible determination
written on their faces, were on their way to the scene of plunder, one with a coil of rope
over his shoulder and another with a revolver in his hand. In twenty minutes, so it is stated,
they had overtaken two of the wretches, who were then in the act of cutting pieces from the
ears and fingers from the hands of the bodies of two dead women.

Brutes at Bay.

With revolver leveled at the scoundrels the leader of the posse shouted, "Throw up your hands
or I'll blow your heads off!" With blanched faces and trembling forms they obeyed the order
and begged for mercy. They were searched, and as their pockets were emptied of their ghastly
finds the indignation of the crowd intensified, and when a bloody finger of an infant, encircled
with two tiny gold rings, was found among the plunder in the leader's pocket, a cry went up
"Lynch them! Lynch them!" Without a moment's delay ropes were thrown around their necks and
they were dangling to the limbs of a tree, in the branches of which an hour before were entangled
the bodies of a dead father and son.

After the expiration of a half hour the ropes were cut, and the bodies lowered and carried
to a pile of rocks in the forest on the hill above. It is hinted that an Allegheny county official
was one of the most prominent actors in this justifiable homicide.

Another case of attempted lynching was witnessed this evening near Kernville. The man was observed
stealing valuable articles from the houses. He was seized by a mob, a rope was placed around
his neck and he was jerked up into the air. The rope was tied to the tree and his would-be
lynchers left him. Bystanders cut him down before he was dead. The other men did not interfere
and he was allowed to go. The man was so badly scared that he could not give his name if he
wanted to do so.

Two colored men were shot while robbing the dead bodies, by the Pittsburgh police, who are
doing guard about the town.

Fiends in Human Form.

To one who saw bright, bustling Johnstown a week ago the sight of its present condition must
cause a thrill of horror, no matter how callous he might be. I doubt if any incident of war
or flood ever caused a more sickening sight. Wretchedness of the most pathetic kind met the
gaze on every side.

Unlawfulness runs riot. If ever military aid was needed now is the time. The town is perfectly
overrun with thieves, many of them from Pittsburgh. The Hungarians are the worst. They seem
to operate in regular organized bands. In Cambria City this morning they entered a house, drove
out the occupants at the point of revolvers and took possession. They can be constantly seen
carrying large quantities of plunder to the hills.

The number of drunken men is remarkable. Whiskey seems marvelously plenty. Men are actually
carrying it around in pails. Barrels of the stuff are constantly located among the drifts,
and men are scrambling over each other and fighting like wild beasts in their mad search for it.

At the cemetery, at the upper end of the town, I saw a sight that rivals the inferno. A number
of ghouls had found a lot of fine groceries, among them a barrel of brandy, with which they
were fairly stuffing themselves. One huge fellow was standing on the strings of an upright
piano singing a profane song, every little while breaking into a wild dance. A half dozen others
were engaged in a hand-to-hand fight over the possession of some treasure stolen from a ruined
house, and the crowd around the barrel were yelling like wild men.

The cry for help increases every hour.

Watched Their Friends Die.

The fire in the drift above the bridge is still burning fiercely and will continue to do so
for several days. The skulls of six people can be seen sticking up out of the ruins just above
the east end of the bridge. Nothing but the blackened skulls can be seen. They are all together.

The sad scenes will never all be written. One lady told me this morning of seeing her mother
crushed to pieces just before her eyes and the mangled body carried off down the stream. William
Yarner lost six children and saved a baby about eighteen months old. His wife died just three
weeks ago. An aged German, his wife and five daughters floated down on their house to a point
below Nineveh, where the house was wrecked. The five daughters were drowned, but the old man
and his wife stuck in a tree and hung there for twenty-four hours before they could be taken off.

Died Kissing Her Babe.

One of the most pitiful sights of this terrible disaster came to my notice this afternoon,
when the body of a young lady was taken out of the Conemaugh River. The woman was apparently
quite young, though her features were terribly disfigured. Nearly all the clothing except the
shoes was torn off the body. The corpse was that of a mother, for although cold in death the
woman clasped a young male babe apparently not more than a year old tightly in her arms. The
little one was huddled close up to its mother's face, who when she realized their terrible
fate, had evidently raised the babe to her lips to imprint upon its little lips the last motherly
kiss it was to receive in this world. The sight was a pathetic one and turned many a stout
heart to tears.

Among the miraculous escapes to be recorded in connection with the great disaster is that of
George J. Leas and his family. He resided on Iron street. When the rush of water came there
were eight people on the roof. The little house swung around off its moorings and floated about
for nearly half an hour before it came up against the bank of drift above the stone bridge.
A three-year-old girl with sunny golden hair and dimpled cheeks prayed all the while that God
would save them, and it seemed that God really answered the prayer of this innocent little
girl and directed the house against the drift, enabling every one of the eight to get off.
Mrs. Leas carried the little girl in her arms, and how she got off she doesn't know. Every
house around them, she said, was crushed, and the people either killed or drowned.

Thugs at Their Work.

One of the most dreadful features of this catastrophe has been the miserable weakness displayed
by the authorities of Johnstown and the surrounding boroughs. Johnstown needed them sadly for
forty-eight hours. There is supposed to be a Burgess, but like most burgesses he is a shadowy
and mythical personage. If there had been concerted and intelligent action the fire in the
débris at the dam could have been extinguished within a short time after it started. Too many
cooks spoiled this ghastly broth.

Even now if dynamite or some other explosive was intelligently applied the huge mass of wreckage
which has up to the present time escaped the flame, and no doubt contains a number of bodies,
could be saved from fire.

This, however, is a matter of small import compared with the immunity granted the outrageous
and open graveyard robbery and disgusting thievery which have thriven bravely since Friday morning.

Foreigners and natives carrying huge sacks, and in some instances even being assisted by horses
and carts, have been busily engaged hunting corpses and stealing such valuables as were to
be found in the wreckage.

Dozens of barrels of strong liquor have been rescued by the Hungarian and Polish laborers from
among the ruins of saloons and hotels and the contents of the same have been freely indulged
in. This has led to an alarming debauchery, which is on the increase. All day the numbers of
the drunken crowd have been augmented from time to time by fresh arrivals from the surrounding
districts.

Those who have suffered from the tidal wave have become much embittered against the law breakers.
There have been many small fights and several small riots in consequence. This has been regarded
with apprehension by the State authorities, and Adjutant General Hastings has arrived at Johnstown
to examine into the condition of affairs and to guard the desolated district with troops. The
Eighteenth regiment, of Pittsburgh, has tendered its services to this work, but has received
no reply to its tender.

General Hastings estimates that the loss of life is at least eight thousand.

An employee of J.L. Gill, of Latrobe, says he and thirty-five other men were in a three-story
building in Johnstown last night. They had been getting out logs for the Johnstown Lumber Company.
The man says that the building was swept away and all the men were drowned except Gill and
his family.

Handling the Dead.

The recovery of bodies has taken up the time of thousands all day. The theory now is that most
of those killed by the torrent were buried beneath the débris. To-day's work in the ruins in
a large degree justifies this assumption. I saw six bodies taken out of one pile of rubbish
not eight feet square.

The truth is that bodies are almost as plentiful as logs. The whirl of the waters puts the
bodies under and the logs and boards on top. The rigidity of arms standing out at right angles
to the bloated and bruised bodies show that death in ninety-nine out of a hundred cases took
place amid the ruins--that is after the wreck of houses had closed over them.

Dr. D.G. Foster, who has been here all day, is of the opinion that most of the victims were
killed by coming into violent contact with objects in the river and not by drowning. He found
many fractured skulls and on most heads blows that would have rendered those receiving them
instantly unconscious, and the water did the rest.

Not fewer than three hundred bodies have been taken from the river and rubbish to-day. It has
been the labor of all classes of citizens, and marvellous work has been accomplished. The eastern
end of Main street, through which the waters tore most madly and destructively, and in which
they left their legacy of wrecked houses, fallen trees and dead bodies in a greater degree
than in any other portion of the city, has been cleared and the remains of over fifty have
been taken out.

All over town the searchers have been equally successful. As soon as a body is found it is
placed on a litter and sent to the Morgue, where it is washed and placed on a board for several
hours to await identification.

The Morgue is the Fourth-ward school house, and it has been surrounded all day by a crowd of
several thousand people. At first the crowd were disposed to stop those bearing the stretchers,
uncover the remains and view them, but this was found to be prolific not only of great delay,
also scenes of agony that not even the bearers could endure.

Now a litter is guarded by a file of soldiers with fixed bayonets, and the people are forced
aside until the Morgue is reached. It is astonishing to find how small a number of injured
are in the city. Few survived. It was death or nothing with the demon of the flood.

Now that an adequate idea of what has befallen them has been reached, and the fact that a living
has still to be made, that plants must be taken care of, that contracts must be filled, the
business people of the city are giving their attention to the future. Vice President and Director
James McMillan, of the Cambria Iron Company, says their loss has been well nigh incalculable.
They are not daunted, but will to-morrow begin the work of clearing up the ruins of their mills
preparatory to rebuilding and repairing their works. They will also immediately rebuild the
Gautier Iron Works. This is the disposition of all.

"Our pockets are light," they say, "but if nothing happens all of us will be in business again."
The central portion of Johnstown is as completely obliterated as if it had never had foundation.
The river has made its bed upon the sites of hundreds of dwellings, and a vast area of sand,
mud and gravel marks the old channel.

It is doubtful whether it will be possible even to reclaim what was once the business portion
of the city. The river will have to be returned to its old bed in order to do this.

Among the lost is H.G. Rose, the District Attorney of Cambria county, whose body was among
the first discovered.

Governor Foraker, of Ohio, this afternoon sent five hundred tents to this city. They will be
pitched on the hillside to-morrow. They are sadly needed, as the buildings that are left are
either too damp or too unsafe for occupancy.

Burying the Dead.

The work of burying the dead began this morning and has been kept up till late this evening.
The bruising of the bodies by logs and trees and other débris and other exposure in the water
have tended to hasten decomposition, which has set in in scores of cases, making interment
instantly necessary.

Bodies are being buried as rapidly as they are identified. The work of Pittsburgh undertakers
in examining the dead has rendered it possible to keep all those embalmed two or three days
longer, but this is desirable only in cases where identification is dubious and no claimants
appear at all.

To-day the cars sent out from Pittsburgh with provisions for the living were hastily cleared
in order to contain the bodies of the dead intended for interment in suburban cemeteries and
in graveyards handy to the city.

Formality is dispensed with. In some instances only the undertaker and his assistants are present,
and in others only one or two members of the family of the dead.

The dead are more plentiful than the mourners.

Death has certainly dealt briefly with the stricken city. "Let the dead bury the dead" has
been more nearly exemplified in this instance than in any other in this country's history.
The magnitude of the horror increases with the hours. It is believed that not less than two
thousand of the drowned found lodgment beneath the omnium gatherum in the triangle of ground
that the Conemaugh cut out of the bank between the river and the Pennsylvania Railroad bridge.

The Greatest Funeral Pyre in History.

The victims were not upon it, but were parts of it. Whole houses were washed into the apex
of the triangle. Hen coops, pigstys and stables were added to the mass. Then a stove ignited
the mass and the work of cremation began. It was a literal breast of fire. The smoke arose
in a huge funnel-shaped cloud, and at times it changed to the form of an hour glass. At night
the flames united would light up this misty remnant of mortality. The effect upon the living,
both ignorant and intelligent, was the same. That volume of smoke with its dual form, produced
a feeling of awe in many that was superior in most cases to that felt in the awful moment of
the storm's wrath on Friday.

Hundreds stood for hours regarding the smoke and wondering whether it foreboded another visitation
more dire than its predecessor.

The people hereabouts this morning awoke to find that nothing was left but a mass of ashes,
calcined human bones, stoves, old iron and other approximately indestructible matter, from
which only a light blue vapor was arising. General Hastings took precautions to prevent the
extension of the fire to another huge pile, a short distance away, and this will be rummaged
to-day for bodies of flood victims.

The Pittsburgh undertakers have contributed more to facilitate the preparation of the dead
for the graves than all others besides.

There was a disposition on the part of many foreigners and negroes to raid the houses, and
do an all around thieving business, but the measures adopted by the police had a tendency to
frighten them off in nearly every case.

One man was caught in the act of robbing the body of an old woman, but he protested that he
had got nothing and was released. He immediately disappeared, and it was found afterward that
he had taken $100 from the pocket of the corpse.

A half-breed negro yesterday and this morning was doing a thriving business in collecting hams,
shoulders, chickens and even furniture. He had thieves in his employ, and while to some of
them he was paying regular salaries, others were doing the work for a drink of whiskey. The
authorities stopped this thing very suddenly, but not until a number of the people threatened
to lynch the half breed. In one or two instance very narrow escapes from the rope were made.

Thousands of coffins and rough boxes have already arrived, and still the supply is short. They
are brought in marked to some undertaker, who has a list of his dead, and as fast as the coffins
come he writes the name of its intended tenant and tells the friends (when there are any) where
to find it.

How a Funeral Takes Place.

Two of them go after it, and, carrying it between them to the Morgue or to their homes, place
the body in it and take it to the burial grounds.

One unfortunate feature of the destruction is the fact that some one has been drowned from
nearly every house in the city, and teams are procurable only with the greatest difficulty.

Dead horses are seen everywhere. In one stable two horses, fully harnessed, bridled and ready
to be taken out, stand dead in their stable, stiff and upright. In a sand pile near the Pennsylvania
Railroad depot a horse's hind feet, rump and tail are all that can be seen of him. He was caught
in the rapidly running waters and had been driven into the sand.

The following telegram from Johnstown has been received at Pittsburg:

"For God's sake tell the sight-seers to keep away from Johnstown for the present. What we want
is people to work, not to look on. Citizen's Committee."

Three trains have already been sent out with crowded cargoes of sight-seers. At every station
along the road excited crowds are waiting for an opportunity to get aboard.

That's what would have happened to the owners of South Fork if they had put in an appearance.

There is great indignation among the people of Johnstown at the wealthy Pittsburghers who own
South Fork. They blame them severely for having maintained such a frightfully dangerous institution
there. The feeling among the people was intense. If any of the owners of the dam had put in
an appearance in Johnstown they would have been lynched.

The dam has been a constant menace to this valley ever since it has been in existence, and
the feeling, which has been bitter enough on the occasion of every flood hitherto, after this
horrible disaster is now at fever heat.

Without seeing the havoc created no idea can be given of the area of the desolation or the
extent of the damage.

Only One Left to Mourn.

An utterly wretched woman stood by a muddy pool of water, trying to find some trace of a once
happy home. She was half crazed with grief, and her eyes were red and swollen. As I stepped
to her side she raised her pale and haggard face, crying:

"They are all gone. Oh God be merciful to them. My husband and my seven dear little children
have been swept down with the flood and I am left alone. We were driven by the raging flood
into the garret, but the waters followed us there. Inch by inch it kept rising until our heads
were crushing against the roof. It was death to remain. So I raised a window and one by one
placed my darlings on some drift wood, trusting to the Great Creator. As I liberated the last
one, my sweet little boy, he looked at me and said:

'Mamma, you always told me that the Lord would care for me; will he look after me now?'

"I saw him drift away with his loving face turned toward me, and with a prayer on my lips for
his deliverance he passed from sight forever. The next moment the roof crashed in and I floated
outside to be rescued fifteen hours later from the roof of a house in Kernville. If I could
only find one of my darlings, I could bow to the will of God, but they all are gone. I have
lost everything on earth now but my life, and I will return to my old Virginia home and lay
me down for my last great sleep."

A handsome woman, with hair as black as a raven's wing, walked through the depot, where a dozen
or more bodies were awaiting burial. Passing from one to another, she finally lifted the paper
covering from the face of a woman, young and with traces of beauty showing through the stains
of muddy water. With a cry of anguish she reeled backward, to be caught by a rugged man who
chanced to be passing. In a moment or so she had calmed herself sufficiently to take one more
look at the features of her dead. She stood gazing at the unfortunate as if dumb. Finally turning
away with another wild burst of grief she said:--

"And her beautiful hair all matted and her sweet face bruised and stained with mud and water."

The dead woman was the sister of the mourner. The body was placed in a coffin a few minutes
later and sent away to its narrow house.

These incidents are but fair samples of the scenes familiar to every turn in this stricken city.

CHAPTER III.

The Horror Increases.

During the night thirty-three bodies were brought to one house. As yet the relief force is
not perfectly organized and bodies are lying around on boards and doors. Within twenty feet
of where this was written the dead body of a colored woman lies.

Provision has been made by the Relief Committee for the sufferers to send despatches to all
parts of the country. The railroad company has a track through to the bridge. The first train
arrived about half-past nine o'clock this morning. A man in a frail craft got caught in the
rapids at the railroad bridge, and it looked as if he would increase the already terrible list
of dead, but fortunately he caught on a rock, where he now is and is liable to remain all day.

The question on every person's lips is--Will the Cambria Iron Company rebuild? The wire mill
is completely wrecked, but the walls of the rolling mill are still standing. If they do not
resume it is a question whether the town will be rebuilt. The Hungarians were beginning to
pillage the houses, and the arrival of police was most timely. Word had just been received
that all the men employed by Peabody, the Pittsburgh contractor, have been saved.

The worst part of this disaster has not been told. Indeed, the most graphic description that
can be written will not tell half the tale. No pen can describe nor tongue tell the vastness
of this devastation.

I walked over the greater part of the wrecked town this morning, and one could not have pictured
such a wreck, nor could one have imagined that an entire town of this size could be so completely
swept away.

A.J. Haws, one of the prominent men of the town, was standing on the hillside this morning,
taking a view of the wreck. He said:

"I never saw anything like this, nor do I believe any one else ever did. No idea can be had
of the tremendous loss of property here. It amounts up into the millions. I am going to leave
the place. I never will build here."

I heard the superintendents and managers of the Cambria Iron Works saying they doubted if the
works will be rebuilt. This would mean the death blow to the place. Mr. Stackhouse, first vice-president
of the iron works, is expected here to-day. Nothing can be done until a meeting of the company
is held.

Preparations for Burial.

Adjutant General Hastings, who is in charge of the relief corps at the railroad station, has
a force of carpenters at work making rough boxes in which to bury the dead. They will be buried
on the hill, just above the town, on ground belonging to the Cambria Iron Company. The graves
will be numbered. No one will be buried that has not been identified without a careful description
being taken. General Hastings drove fifty-eight miles across the country in order to get here,
and as soon as he came took charge. He has the whole town organized, and in connection with
L.S. Smith has commenced the building of bridges and clearing away the wrecks to get out the
dead bodies.

General Hastings has a large force of men clearing private tracks of the Cambria Iron Company
in order that the small engines can be put to work bringing up the dead that have been dragged
out of the river at points below.

The bodies are being brought up and laid out in freight cars. Mr. Kittle, of Ebensburg, has
been deputized to take charge of the valuables taken from the bodies and keep a registry of
them, and also to note any marks of identification that may be found. A number of the bodies
have been stripped of rings or bracelets and other valuables.

Over six hundred corpses have now been taken out on the south side of Stony Creek, the greater
portion of which have been identified.

Send Us Coffins.

Preparations for their burial are being carried on as rapidly as possible, and "coffins, coffins,"
is the cry. No word has been received anywhere of any being shipped. Even rough boxes will
be gladly received. Those that are being made, and in which many of the bodies are being buried,
are of rough unplaned boards. One hundred dead bodies are laid out at the soap factory, while
two hundred or more people are gathered there that are in great distress. Boats are wanted.
People have the greatest difficulty in getting to the town.

Struggling for Order.

Another account from Johnstown on the second day after the disaster says:

The situation here has not changed, and yesterday's estimates of the loss of life do not seem
to be exaggerated. Six hundred bodies are now lying in Johnstown, and a large number have already
been buried. Four immense relief trains arrived last night, and the survivors are being well
cared for.

Adjutant General Hastings, assisted by Mayor Sanger, has taken command at Johnstown and vicinity.
Nothing is legal unless it bears the signature of the former. The town itself is guarded by
Company H, Sixth regiment, Lieutenant Leggett in command. New members were sworn in by him,
and they are making excellent soldiers.

Special police are numerous, and the regulations are so strict that even the smoking of a cigar
is prohibited. General Hastings expresses the opinion that more troops are necessary.

Mr. Alex. Hart is in charge of the special police. He has lost his wife and family. Notwithstanding
his great misfortune he is doing the work of a Hercules in his own way.

Firemen and Soldiers Arriving.

Chief Evans, of the Pittsburgh Fire Department, arrived this evening with engines and several
hose carts, with a full complement of men. A large number of Pittsburgh physicians came on
the same train.

A squad of Battery B, under command of Lieutenant Brown, the forerunners of the whole battery,
arrived at the improvised telegraph office at half-past six o'clock. Lieutenant Brown went
at once to Adjutant General Hastings and reported for duty.

A portion of the police force of Pittsburgh and Alleghany are on duty, and better order is
maintained than prevailed yesterday. Communication has been restored between Cambria City and
Johnstown by a foot bridge.

The work of repairing the tracks between Sang Hollow and Johnstown is going on rapidly, and
trains will probably be running by to-morrow morning. Not less than fifteen thousand strangers
are here.

The unruly element has been put down and order is now perfect. The Citizen's Committee are
in charge and have matters well organized.

A proclamation has just been issued that all men who are able to work must report for work
or leave the place. "We have too much to do to support idlers," says the Citizen's Committee,
"And will not abuse the generous help that is being sent by doing so." From to-morrow all will
be at work.

Money now is greatly needed to meet the heavy pay rolls that will be incurred for the next
two weeks. W. C. Lewis, Chairman of the Finance Committee, is ready to receive the same.

Fall of the Wall of Water.

Mr. Crouse, proprietor of the South Fork Fishing Club Hotel, came to Johnstown this afternoon.
He says:--

"When the dam of Conemaugh Lake broke the water seemed to leap, scarcely touching the ground.
It bounded down the valley, crashing and roaring, carrying everything before it. For a mile
its front seemed like a solid wall twenty feet high."

Freight Agent Dechert, when the great wall that held the body of water began to crumble at
the top sent a message begging the people of Johnstown for God's sake to take to the hills.
He reports no serious accidents at South Fork.

Richard Davis ran to Prospect Hill when the water raised. As to Mr. Dechert's message, he says
just such have been sent down at each flood since the lake was made. The warning so often proved
useless that little attention was paid to it this time. "I cannot describe the mad rush," he
said. "At first it looked like dust. That must have been the spray. I could see houses going
down before it like a child's play blocks set on edge in a row. As it came nearer I could see
houses totter for a moment, then rise and the next moment be crushed like egg shells against
each other."

To Rise Phoenix-like.

James McMillin, vice-president of the Cambria Iron Works, was met this afternoon. In a conversation
he said:

"I do not know what our loss is. I cannot even estimate, as I have not the faintest idea what
it may be. The upper mill is totally wrecked--damaged beyond all possibility of repairs. The
lower mill is damaged to such an extent that all machinery and buildings are useless.

"The mills will be rebuilt immediately. I have sent out orders that all men that can must report
at the mill to-morrow to commence cleaning up. I do not think the building was insured against
a flood. The great thing we want is to get the mill in operation again."

The Gautier Wire Works was completely destroyed. The buildings will be immediately rebuilt
and put in operation as soon as possible. The loss at this point is complete. The land on which
it stood is to-day as barren and desolate as if it were in the midst of the Sahara Desert.

The Cambria Iron Company loses its great supply stores. The damage to the stock alone will
amount to $50,000.

The building was valued at $150,000, and is a total loss. The company offices which adjoins
the store was a handsome structure. It was protected by the first building, but nevertheless
is almost totally destroyed.

The Dartmouth Club, at which employees of the works boarded, was carried away in the flood.
It contained many occupants at the time. None were saved.

Estimates of the losses of the Cambria Iron Company given are from $2,000,000 to $2,500,000.
But little of this can be recovered.

History of the Works.

The Cambria Iron Works at Johnstown were built in 1853. It was the second largest plant of
its kind in the country, and was completely swept away. Its capacity of finished steel per
annum was 180,000 net tons of steel rails and 20,000 net tons of steel in other shapes. The
mill turned out steel rails, spike bars, angles, flats, rounds, axles, billets and wire rods.
There were nine Siemens and forty-two reverbatory heating furnaces, one seven ton and two 6,000
pound hammers and three trains of rolls.

The Bessemer Steel Works made their first blow July 10, 1871, and they contained nine gross
ton converters, with an annual capacity of 200,000 net tons of ingots. In 1878 two fifteen
gross tons Siemens open-hearth steel furnaces were built, with an annual capacity of 20,000
net tons of ingots.

The Cambria Iron Company also owns the Gautier Steel Works at Johnstown, which were erected
in 1878.

The rolling mill produced annually 30,000 net tons of merchant bar steel of every size and
for every purpose. The wire mill had a capacity alone of 30,000 tons of fence wire.

There are numerous bituminous coal mines near Johnstown, operated by the Cambria Iron Company,
the Euclid Coal Company and private persons. There were three woolen mills, employing over
three hundred hands and producing an annual product valued at $300,000.

Awful Work of the Flames.

Fifty acres of town swept clean. One thousand two hundred buildings destroyed. Eight thousand
to ten thousand lives lost.

That is the record of the Johnstown calamity as it looked to me just before dark last night.
Acres of the town were turned into cemeteries, and miles of the river bank were involuntary
storage rooms for household goods.

From the half ruined parapet at the end of the stone railroad bridge, in Johnstown proper,
one sees sights so gruesome that none but the soulless Hungarian and Italian laborers can command
his emotions.

At my right is a fiery pit that is now believed to have been the funeral pyre of almost a thousand
persons.

Streets Obliterated.

The fiercest rush of the current was straight across the lower, level part of Johnstown, where
it entirely obliterated Cinder, Washington, Market, Main and Walnut streets. These streets
were from a half to three-quarters of a mile in length, and were closely crowded along their
entire course with dwellings and other buildings, and there is now no more trace of streets
or houses than there is at low tide on the beach at Far Rockaway.

In the once well populated boroughs of Conemaugh and Woodvale there are to-night literally
but two buildings left, one the shell of the Woodvale Woolen Mill and the other a sturdy brick
dwelling.

The buildings which were swept from twenty out of the thirty acres of devastated Johnstown
were crowded against the lower end of the big stone bridge in a mass 200 yards wide, 500 yards
broad and from 60 to 100 feet deep. They were crushed and split out of shape and packed together
like playing cards.

When you realize that in nearly every one of these buildings there were at least one human
being, while in some there were as many as seventy-five, it is easy to comprehend how awful
it was when this mass began to burn fiercely last night. It was known that a large number of
persons were imprisoned in the débris, for they could be plainly seen by those on shore, but
it was not until people stopped to think and to ask themselves questions, which startled them
in a ghastly way, that the fact became plain that instead of a pitiful hundred or two of victims
at least a thousand were in that roaring, crackling, loathsome, blazing mass upon the surface
of the water and in the huge, inaccessible arches of the big bridge.

Charred Bodies.

Charred bodies could be seen here and there all through the glowing embers. There was no attempt
to check the fire by the authorities, nor for that matter did they try to stop the robbing
of the dead, nor any other glaring violation of law. The fire is spreading toward a large block
of crushed buildings further up the stream. There is a broad stretch of angry water above and
below, while over there, just opposite the end of the bridge, is the ruin of the great Cambria
Iron Works, which have been damaged to the extent of over $1,000,000.

The Gautier Steel Works have been wiped away, and are represented by a loss of $1,000,000 and
a big hole.

The Holbert House, owned by Renford Brothers, has entirely disappeared. It was a five story
building, was the leading hotel of Johnstown, and contained a hundred rooms. Of the seventy-five
guests who were in it when the flood came, only eight have been saved. Most of them were crushed
by the fall of the walls and flooring.

Hundreds of searching parties are looking in the muddy ponds and among the wreckage for bodies
and they are being gathered in ghastly heaps.

In one building among the bloated victims, I saw a young and well-dressed man and woman, still
locked in each other's arms, a young mother with her babe pressed with delirious tenacity to
her breast, and on a small pillow was a tiny babe a few hours old, which the doctors said must
have been born in the water. It is said that 720 bodies have so far been recovered, or have
been located.

The coroner of Westmoreland county is ordering coffins by the carload.

In the Raging Waters.

A dispatch from Derry says: In this city the poor people in the raging waters cried out for
aid that never came. More than one brave man risked his life in trying to save those in the
flood. Every hour details of some heroic action are brought to light. In many instances the
victims displayed remarkable courage and gave their chances for rescue to friends with them.
Sons stood back for mothers, and were lost while their parents were taken out. Many a son went
down to a watery grave that a sister or a father might be saved. Such instances of sacrifice
in the face of fearful danger are numerous.

The Force of the Waters.

One can estimate the force of the water when it is known that it carried locomotives down the
mountain side and turned them upside down where they are now lying. Long trains of cars have
been derailed and carried great distances from the railroads.

The first sight that greeted the men at nine this morning was the body of a beautiful woman
lying crushed and mangled under the ponderous wheels of a gondola car. The clothing was torn
to shreds. Dr. Berry said that he never saw such intense pain pictured on a face before.

Terrible Stories.

At this time of writing it is impossible to secure the names of any of the lost. Every person
one meets along the road has some horrible tale of drowned and dead bodies recovered.

One thousand people or more were buried and crushed in the great fire. The flats below Conemaugh
are full of cars with many dead bodies lying under them. At Sang Hollow a man named Duncan
sat on the roof of a house and saw his father and mother die in the attic below him. The poor
fellow was powerless to help them, and he stood there wringing his hands and tearing his hair.

A man was seen clinging to a tree, covered with blood. He was lost with the others.

Long after dark the flames of fire shot high above the burning mass of timber, lighting the
vast flood of rushing waters on all sides.

The Dead.

Dead bodies are being picked up. The train master, E. Pitcairn, has been working manfully directing
the rescuing of dead bodies at Nineveh. In a ten acre field seventy-five bodies were taken
out within a half mile of each other. Of this number only five were men, the rest being women
and children. Many beautiful young girls, refined in features and handsomely dressed, were
found, and women and young mothers with their hair matted with roots and leaves are constantly
being removed.

The wrecking crew which took out these bodies are confident that 150 bodies are lying buried
in the sand and under the débris on those low-lying bottom lands. Some of the bodies were horribly
mangled, and the features were twisted and contorted as if they had died in the most excrutiating
agony. Others are found lying stretched out with calm faces.

Many a tear was dropped by the men as they worked away removing the bodies. An old lady with
fine gray hair was picked up alive, although every bone in her body was broken. Judging from
the number of women and children found in the swamps of Nineveh, the female portion of the
population suffered the most.

A Fatal Tree.

Mr. O'Conner was at Sang Hollow when the flood began. He remained there through the afternoon
and night, and he states that there was a fatal tree on the island against which a number of
people were dashed and instantly killed. Their bodies were almost tied in a knot doubled over
the tree by the force of the current. Mr. O'Conner says that the first man who came down had
his brains knocked out against this obstruction. In fact, those who hit the tree met the same
fate and were instantly killed under the pile of driftwood collected there. He could give no
estimate of the number lost at this point, but says that it is certainly large.

Braves Death for His Family.

One of the most thrilling incidents of the disaster was the performance of A.J. Leonard, whose
family reside in Morrellville, a short distance below this point. He was at work here, and
hearing that his house had been swept away determined at all hazards to ascertain the fate
of his family. The bridges having been carried away he constructed a temporary raft, and clinging
to it as close as a cat to the side of a fence, he pushed his frail craft out in the raging
torrent and started on a chase which, to all who were watching, seemed to mean an embrace in death.

Heedless of cries "For God's sake go back, you will be drowned," and "Don't attempt it," he
persevered. As the raft struck the current he threw off his coat and in his shirt sleeves braved
the stream. Down plunged the boards and down went Leonard, but as it rose he was seen still
clinging. A mighty shout arose from the throats of the hundreds on the banks, who were now
deeply interested, earnestly hoping he would successfully ford the stream.

Down again went his bark, but nothing, it seemed, could shake Leonard off. The craft shot up
in the air apparently ten or twelve feet, and Leonard stuck to it tenaciously. Slowly but surely
he worked his boat to the other side of the stream, and after what seemed an awful suspense
he finally landed amid ringing cheers of men, women and children.

The last seen of him he was making his way down a mountain road in the direction of the spot
where his house had lately stood. His family consisted of his wife and three children.

An Angel in the Mud.

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company's operators at Switch Corner, which is near Sang Hollow,
tell thrilling stories of the scenes witnessed by them on Friday afternoon and evening. Said
one of them:

"In order to give you an idea of how the tidal wave rose and fell, let me say that I kept a
measure and timed the rise and fall of the water, and in forty-eight minutes it fell four and
a half feet.

"I believe that when the water goes down about seventy-five children and fifty grown persons
will be found among the weeds and bushes in the bend of the river just below the tower.

"There the current was very strong, and we saw dozens of people swept under the trees, and
I don't believe that more than one in twenty came out on the other side."

"They found a little girl in white just now," said one of the other operators.

"Good God!" said the chief operator, "she isn't dead, is she!"

"Yes; they found her in a clump of willow bushes, kneeling on a board, just about the way we
saw her when she went down the river." Turning to me he said:--

"That was the saddest thing we saw all day yesterday. Two men came down on a little raft, with
a little girl kneeling between them, and her hands raised and praying. She came so close to
us we could see her face, and that she was crying. She had on a white dress and looked like
a little angel. She went under that cursed shoot in the willow bushes at the bend like all
the rest, but we did hope she would get through alive."

"And so she was still kneeling," he said to his companion, who had brought the unwelcome news.

"She sat there," was the reply, "as if she were still praying, and there was a smile on her
poor little face, though her mouth was full of mud."

All agreed in saying that at least one hundred people were drowned below Nineveh.

Direful Incidents.

The situation at Johnstown grows worse as fuller particulars are being received in Pittsburgh.

This morning it was reported that three thousand people were lost in the flood. In the afternoon
this number was increased to six thousand, and at this writing despatches place the number
at ten thousand.

It is the most frightful destruction of life that has ever been known in the United States.

Vampires at Hand.

It is stated that already a large gang of thieves and vampires have descended on and near the
place. Their presumed purpose is to rob the dead and ransack the demolished buildings.

The Tenth regiment of the Pennsylvania National Guard has been ordered out to protect property.

A telegram from Bolivar says Lockport did not suffer much, but that sixty-five families were
turned out of their homes. The school at that place is filled with mothers, fathers, daughters
and children.

Noble Acts of Heroism.

Edward Dick, a young railroader living in the place, saw an old man floating down the river
on a tree trunk whose agonized face and streaming gray hair excited his compassion. He plunged
into the torrent, clothes and all, and brought the old man safely ashore. Scarcely had he done
this when the upper story of a house floated by on which Mrs. Adams, of Cambria, and her two
children were borne. He plunged in again, and while breaking through the tin roof of the house
cut an artery in his left wrist, but, although weakened with loss of blood, succeeded in saving
both mother and children.

George Shore, another Lockport swimmer, pulled out William Jones, of Cambria, who was almost
exhausted and could not possibly have survived another twenty minutes in the water.

John Decker, who has some celebrity as a local pugilist, was also successful in saving a woman
and boy, but was nearly killed in a third attempt to reach the middle of the river by being
struck by a huge log.

The most miraculous fact about the people who reached Bolivar alive was how they passed through
the falls halfway between Lockport and Bolivar. The seething waters rushed through that barrier
of rock with a noise which drowned that of all the passing trains. Heavy trees were whirled
high in the air out of the water, and houses which reached there whole were dashed to splinters
against the rocks.

A Tale of Horror.

On the floor of William Mancarro's house, groaning with pain and grief, lay Patrick Madden,
a furnace man of the Cambria Iron Company. He told of his terrible experience in a voice broken
with emotion. He said: "When the Cambria Iron Company's bridge gave way I was in the house
of a neighbor, Edward Garvey. We were caught through our own neglect, like a great many others,
and a few minutes before the houses were struck Garvey remarked that he was a good swimmer,
and could get away no matter how high the water rose. Ten minutes later I saw him and his son-in-law
drowned.

"No human being could swim in that terrible torrent of débris. After the South Fork reservoir
broke I was flung out of the building and saw, when I rose to the surface of the water, my
wife hanging upon a piece of scantling. She let it go and was drowned almost within reach of
my arm and I could not help or save her. I caught a log and floated with it five or six miles,
but it was knocked from under me when I went over the dam. I then caught a bale of hay and
was taken out by Mr. Morenrow."

A despatch from Greensburg says the day express, which left Pittsburgh at eight o'clock on
Friday morning was lying at Johnstown in the evening at the time the awful rush of waters came
down the mountains. We have been informed by one who was there that the coach next to the baggage
car was struck by the raging flood, and with its human freight cut loose from the rest of the
train and carried down the stream. All on board, it is feared, perished. Of the passengers
who were left on the track, fifteen or more who endeavored to flee to the mountains were caught,
it is thought, by the flood, and likewise carried to destruction. Samuel Bell, of Latrobe,
was conductor on the train, and he describes the scene as the most appalling and heartrending
he ever witnessed.

A special despatch from Latrobe says:--"The special train which left the Union Station, Pittsburgh,
at half-past one arrived at Nineveh Station, nine miles from Johnstown, last evening at five
o'clock. The train was composed of four coaches and locomotive, and carried, at the lowest
calculation, over nine hundred persons, including the members of the press. The passengers
were packed in like sardines and many were compelled to hang out upon the platform. A large
proportion of the passengers were curiosity seekers, while there was a large sprinkling of
suspicious looking characters, who had every appearance of being crooks and wreckers, such
as visit all like disasters for the sole purpose of plundering and committing kindred depredations."

When the train reached Nineveh the report spread through it that a number of bodies had been
fished out of the water and were awaiting identification at a neighboring planing mill. I stopped
off to investigate the rumor, while the balance of the party journeyed on toward Sang Hollow,
the nearest approach to Johnstown by rail. I visited Mumaker's planing mills and found that
the report was true.

All day long the rescuers had been at work, and at this writing (six o'clock) they have taken
out seventy-eight dead bodies, the majority of whom are women and children. The bodies are
horribly mutilated and covered with mud and blood. Fifteen of them are those of men. Their
terribly mutilated condition makes identification for the present almost impossible. One of
the bodies found was that of a woman, apparently about thirty-five years of age.

Every conveyance that could be used has been pressed into service. Latrobe is all agog with
excitement over the great disaster. Almost every train takes out a load of roughs and thugs
who are bent on mischief. They resemble the mob that came to Pittsburgh during the riots.

Measures of Relief.

Pittsburgh is in a wild state of excitement. A large mass meeting was held yesterday afternoon
and in a short space of time $1,000 was subscribed for the sufferers.

The Pennsylvania company has been running trains every hour to the scene of the disaster or
as near it as they can get. Provisions and a large volunteer relief corps have been sent up.
The physicians have had an enthusiastic meeting at which one and all freely offered their services.

The latest project is to have the wounded and the survivors who fled to the hillsides from
the angry rush of waters brought to Pittsburgh. The Exposition Society has offered the use
of its splendid new building as a temporary hospital. All the hospitals in the city have also
offered to care for the sufferers free of charge to the full limit of their capacity.

Word has been received at Allegheny Junction, twenty-two miles above Pittsburgh, from Leechburg
that a woman and two children were seen floating past there at five o'clock yesterday morning
on top of some wreckage. They were alive, and their pitiful cries for help drew the attention
of the people on the shore. Some men got a boat and endeavored to reach the sufferers.

As they rowed out in the stream the woman could be heard calling to them to save the children
first.

The men made a gallant effort. It was all without avail, as the strong current and floating
masses of débris prevented them from reaching the victims, and the latter floated on down the
stream until their despairing cries could no longer be heard.

Mrs. Chambers, of Apollo, was swept away when her house was wrecked during the night. She had
gone to bed when the flood came and she had not time to dress. Fortunately she managed to secure
a hold on some wreckage which was being carried past her. She kept her hold until her cries
were heard by some men a short distance above Leechburg. They got out a boat and succeeded
in reaching her, and took her to a house near the bank of the river. When they got her there
it was found that she was badly bruised and all her clothing had been torn off by the débris
with which she had come in contact, leaving her entirely naked. She was also rescued at Natrona.

A Lucky Change of Residence.

Mr. F.J. Moore, of the Western Union office in this city, is giving thanks to-day for the fortunate
escape of his wife and two children from the devastated city. As if by some foreknowledge of
the impending disaster, Mr. Moore had arranged to have his family move yesterday from Johnstown
and join him in this city. Their household goods were shipped on Thursday, and yesterday just
in time to save themselves, the little party departed in the single train which made the trip
between Johnstown and Pittsburgh. I called on Mrs. Moore at her husband's apartments, No. 4
Webster avenue, and found her completely prostrated by the news of the final catastrophe, coupled
with the dangerous experience through which she and her little ones had passed.

"Oh, it was terrible," she said. "The reservoir had broken, and before we got out of the house
the water filled the cellar, and on the way to the depot it was up to the carriage bed. Our
train left at a quarter to two P.M., and at that hour the flood had commenced to rise with
terrible rapidity. Houses and sheds were carried away, and two men were drowned almost under
our very eyes. People gathered on the roofs to take refuge from the water which poured into
the lower rooms of their dwellings, and many families took fright and became scattered beyond
hope of being reunited. Just as the train pulled out I saw a woman crying bitterly. Her house
had been flooded and she had escaped, leaving her husband behind, and her fears for his safety
made her almost crazy. Our house was in the lower part of the town, and it makes me shudder
to think what would have happened had we remained in it an hour longer. So far as I know we
were the only passengers from Johnstown on the train, and therefore I suppose we are the only
persons who got away in time to escape the culminating disaster."

Mrs. Moore's little son told me how he had seen the rats driven out of their holes by the flood
and running along the tops of the fences. Mr. Moore endeavored to get to Johnstown yesterday,
but was prevented by the suspension of traffic and says he is very glad of it.

What the Eye Hath Seen.

The scenes at Heanemyer's planing mill at Nineveh, where the dead bodies are lying, are never
to be forgotten. The torn, bruised and mutilated bodies of the victims are lying in a row on
the floor of the planing mill which looks more like the field of Bull Run after that disasterous
battle than a work shop. The majority of the bodies are nude, their clothing having been torn
off. All along the river bits of clothing--a tiny shoe, a baby dress, a mother's evening wrapper,
a father's coat, and in fact every article of wearing apparel imaginable may be seen hanging
to stumps of trees and scattered on the bank. The sight forced many a stout heart to shed tears.
The limp bodies, with matted hair, some with holes in their heads, eyes knocked out and all
bespattered with blood were a ghastly spectacle.

Story of The First Fugitives.

The first survivors of the Johnstown wreck who arrived in the city last night were Joseph and
Henry Lauffer and Lew Dalmeyer, three well known Pittsburghers. They endured considerable hardship
and had several narrow escapes with their lives. Their story of the disaster can best be told
in their own language. Joe, the youngest of the Lauffer brothers, said:--

"My brother and I left on Thursday for Johnstown. The night we arrived there it rained continually,
and on Friday morning it began to flood. I started for the Cambria store at a quarter past
eight on Friday, and in fifteen minutes afterward I had to get out of the store in a wagon,
the water was running so rapidly. We then arrived at the station and took the day express and
went as far as Conemaugh, where we had to stop. The limited, however got through, and just
as we were about to start the bridge at South Fork gave way with a terrific crash, and we had
to stay there. We then went to Johnstown. This was at a quarter to ten in the morning, when
the flood was just beginning. The whole city of Johnstown was inundated and the people all
moved up to the second floor.

Mountains of Water.

"Now this is where the trouble occurred. These poor unfortunates did not know the reservoir
would burst, and there are no skiffs in Johnstown to escape in. When the South Fork basin gave
way mountains of water twenty feet high came rushing down the Conemaugh River, carrying before
them death and destruction. I shall never forget the harrowing scene. Just think of it! thousands
of people, men, women and children, struggling and weeping and wailing as they were being carried
suddenly away in the raging current. Houses were picked up as if they were but a feather, and
their inmates were all carried away with them, while cries of 'God help me!' 'Save me!' 'I
am drowning!' 'My child!' and the like were heard on all sides. Those who were lucky enough
to escape went to the mountains, and there they beheld the poor unfortunates being crushed
among the débris to death without any chance of being rescued. Here and there a body was seen
to make a wild leap into the air and then sink to the bottom.

"At the stone bridge of the Pennsylvania company people were dashed to death against the piers.
When the fire started there hundreds of bodies were burned. Many lookers-on up on the mountains,
especially the women, fainted."

Mr. Lauffer's brother, Harry, then told his part of the tale, which was not less interesting.
He said:--"We had the most narrow escapes of anybody, and I tell you we don't want to be around
when anything of that kind occurs again.

"The scenes at Johnstown have not in the least been exaggerated, and indeed the worst is to
be heard. When we got to Conemaugh and just as we were about to start the bridge gave way.
This left the day express, the accommodation, a special train and a freight train at the station.
Above was the South Fork water basin, and all of the trains were well filled. We were discussing
the situation when suddenly, without any warning, the whistles of every engine began to shriek,
and in the noise could be heard the warning of the first engineer, 'My God! Rush to the mountains,
the reservoir has burst.' Then, with a thundering like peal came the mad rush of waters. No
sooner had the cry been heard than those who could with a wild leap rushed from the train and
up the mountains. To tell this story takes some time, but the moments in which the horrible
scene was enacted were few. Then came the tornado of water, leaping and rushing with tremendous
force. The waves had angry crests of white and their roar was something deafening. In one terrible
swath they caught the four trains and lifted three of them right off the track, as if they
were only a cork. There they floated in the river. Think of it, three large locomotives and
finely varnished Pullmans floating around, and above all the hundreds of poor unfortunates
who were unable to escape from the car swiftly drifting toward death. Just as we were about
to leap from the car I saw a mother, with a smiling, blue eyed baby in her arms. I snatched
it from her and leaped from the train just as it was lifted off of the track. The mother and
child were saved, but if one more minute had elapsed we all would have perished."

Beyond the Power of Words.

During all of this time the waters kept rushing down the Conemaugh and through the beautiful
town of Johnstown, picking up everything and sparing nothing.

The mountains by this time were black with people, and the moans and sighs from those below
brought tears to the eyes of the most stony hearted. There in that terrible rampage were brothers,
sisters, wives and husbands, and from the mountain could be seen the panic stricken marks in
the faces of those who were struggling between life and death. I really am unable to do justice
to the scene, and its details are almost beyond my power to relate. Then came the burning of
the débris near the Pennsylvania Railroad bridge. The scene was too sickening to endure. We
left the spot and journeyed across country and delivered many notes, letters, etc., that were
intrusted to us.

We rode thirty-one miles in a buckboard, then walked six miles, reached Blairsville and journeyed
again on foot to what is called the "Bow," and from thence we arrived home. On our way we met
Mr. F. Thompson, a friend of ours, who resides in Nineveh, and he stated that rescuing parties
were busy all day at Annom. One hundred and seventy-five bodies were recovered at that place.
An old couple about sixty years of age were rescued from a tree, on which they came floating
down the stream. They were clasped in each other's arms.

President Harrison's private secretary, Elijah Halford, and wife, were on the train which was
swept away, but escaped and were in the mountains when I left.

Among the lost are Colonel John P. Linton and his wife and children. Colonel Linton was prominent
in the Grand Army of the Republic and in the Knights of Pythias and other orders. He was formerly
Auditor General of Pennsylvania.

CHAPTER IV.

Multiplication of Terrors.

The handsome brick High School Building is damaged to such an extent that it will have to be
rebuilt. The water attained the height of the window sills of the second floor. Its upper stories
formed a refuge for many persons. All Saturday afternoon two little girls could be seen at
the windows frantically calling for aid. They had spent all night and the day in the building,
cut off from all aid. Without food and drinking water their condition was lamentable. Late
in the evening the children were removed to higher ground and properly cared for.

A number of persons had been taken from this building earlier in the day, but in the excitement
the children were forgotten. Their names could not be obtained.

Death in Many Forms.

Morrell Institute, a beautiful building and the old homestead of the Morrell family, is totally
ruined. The water has weakened the walls and foundations to such an extent that there is danger
of its collapsing. Many families took refuge in this building and were saved. Now that the
waters have receded there is danger from falling walls. All day long the crashing of walls
could be heard across the river. Before daybreak this morning the sounds could not but make
one shudder at the very thought of the horrible deaths that awaited many who had escaped the
devastating flood.

Library Hall was another of the fine buildings of the many in the city that is destroyed. Of
the Episcopal church not a vestige remains. Where it once stood, there is now a placid lake.
The parsonage is swept away, and the rector of the church, Rev. Mr. Diller, was drowned.

Buried Under Falling Buildings.

The church was one of the first buildings to fall. It carried with it several of the surrounding
houses. Many of them were occupied. The victims were swept into the comparatively still waters
at the bridge, and there met death either by fire or water.

James M. Walters, an attorney, spent the night in Alma Hall and relates a thrilling story.
One of the most curious occurrences of the whole disaster was how Mr. Walters got to the hall.
He has his office on the second floor. His home is at No. 135 Walnut street. He says he was
in the house with his family when the waters struck it. All was carried away. Mr. Walters'
family drifted on a roof in another direction. He passed down several streets and alleys until
he came to the hall. His dwelling struck that edifice and he was thrown into his own office.

Long, Dark Night of Terror.

About two hundred persons had taken refuge in the hall, and were on the second, third and fourth
stories. The men held a meeting and drew up some rules, which all were bound to respect. Mr.
Walters was chosen president. Rev. Mr. Beale was put in charge of the first floor, A.M. Hart
of the second floor, Doctor Matthews of the fourth floor. No lights were allowed, and the whole
night was spent in darkness. The sick were cared for. The weaker women and children had the
best accommodations that could be had, while the others had to wait. The scenes were most agonizing.
Heartrending shrieks, sobs and moans pierced the gloomy darkness. The crying of children mingled
with the suppressed sobs of the women. Under the guardianship of the men all took more hope.
No one slept during all the long dark night. Many knelt for hours in prayer, their supplications
mingling with the roar of the waters and the shrieks of the dying in the surrounding houses.
In all this misery two women gave premature birth to children.

Here is a Hero.

Dr. Matthews is a hero. Several of his ribs were crushed by a falling timber and his pains
were most severe, yet through all he attended the sick. When two women in a house across the
street shouted for help he with two other brave young men climbed across the drift and ministered
to their wants. No one died during the night, but women and children surrendered their lives
on the succeeding day as a result of terror and fatigue. Miss Rose Young, one of the young
ladies in the hall, was frightfully cut and bruised. Mrs. Young had a leg broken. All of Mr.
Walters' family were saved.

While the loss of property about Brookville, the lumber centre of Pennsylvania, by the great
flood has been enormous, variously estimated at from $250,000 to $500,000, not a single life
has been lost. At least there have been none reported so far, and I have travelled over the
line from Red Bank, on the Valley road, to Dubois, on the low grade division. Every creek is
swollen to many times its natural size. A great deal of the low-lying farm lands and roads
in places have water enough over them to float an ordinary steamboat.

Leaving Pittsburgh Saturday morning on the valley road, we ran past millions and millions of
feet of lumber. From the city to the junction opposite Freeport the river was almost choked
with débris of broken and shattered houses. In places the river was fairly black with floating
masses of lath, shingles, roofs, floors and other lumber that had formerly been houses. The
sight was appalling and spoke louder than any pen can describe.

At Red Bank the river was filled with a different kind of lumber, including huge saw logs ready
for cutting. From the estimates of an old lumber man who was on the train I was told that between
the stations named we passed at least ten million feet of lumber, which means a loss of fully
$100,000 to the owners. A big portion of this came out of the Clarion river, the estimated
money loss from that section alone being anywhere from $500,000 to $750,000.

All along the Allegheny river were gathered people trying to catch the logs, risking their
lives, for the logs swept down the river in a current that was running fully ten miles an hour.
The work was very hazardous. The catchers are allowed by law six and a quarter cents for each
log captured, and the river was almost lined with people trying to save the property.

At Red Bank, which we left at noon, there were at least six feet of water expected from Oil
City, and with it, according to the reports from up the river, was an immense amount of lumber.
Leaving the valley road at Red Bank we went up the low grade division to Bryant, where immense
sawmills, the largest in the vicinity are located. The current was rushing along at a rate
anywhere from twelve to fifteen miles an hour, tossing the huge logs around like so many toothpicks
and carrying everything before them. So great was the current and mass of logs that the big
iron bridge at Reynoldsville, sixteen miles above Brookville, was swept away, as were two wagon
bridges and several small foot bridges.

Hundreds Homeless and Suffering.

Many houses here and there along Red Bank Creek were turned upside down, some of them floating
clear away, while the more secure ones were flooded with water clear into the second floors.
Many of the smaller cottages and shanties were covered, leaving only the peaks of the roofs
sticking out to show the spots that families had but a few hours before called home. All along
the railroad track was piled the few household effects, furniture, bedding, tables and clothes
which the poor owners had saved before they were forced out on the high ground. These same
people had gone to bed last evening thinking themselves safe from the high water, only to be
wakened about midnight by the noise of the rushing floods and the huge saw logs bumping against
their homes. The very narrow escapes that some of them made while getting their families into
places of safety would fill many pages of this book.

Floating to Safety on Saw Logs.

One man had to mount the different members of his family on logs. The mother and children alike
sat astride of them, and then, with the father on the other end, were poled across to the high
ground.

Another man, whose house was in a worse place, swam ashore and, throwing a rope back to the
mother, who was surrounded on the porch of the house by the children, yelled for her to tie
one end to the little ones so he could pull them over the fast running water. This operation
was continued until the entire family was rescued.

Willing workers from the neighborhood were not long in getting huge bonfires started, and with
the aid of these and dry clothing brought in haste by people whose homes stood on higher ground
the family were soon warmed.

The same willing hands hastily constructed sheds, and with immense bonfires the people were
kept warm till daylight. Others, more fortunate, were able to save enough from their houses
to make themselves comfortable for a short season of camping. One poor family I noticed had
saved enough carpet to make a tent out of, and under this temporary shelter the mother was
doing her best to prepare a meal and attend to her other household duties.

Sheltered by Friendly Neighbors.

In Brookville a great many houses were submerged, but no lives were lost. While the people
were driven from their homes, they were more fortunate than the people of Bryants, because
they could at once find shelter under the roofs of the neighbors' houses.

All of the saw mills, the chief industry of the town, were closed down. Some because the water
was over the first floor, and others because their entire working force were on the creek trying
to construct temporary booms, by which they expected to save at least a portion of the property
from being swept away. One man rigged a boom with the aid of a cable 1,600 feet long and thick
enough to hold the heaviest steamer. About fifty logs were chained together for further protection.
This arrangement for a time checked the mass of logs, but just when everybody was thinking
it would stop the output a small dam gave way, bringing down with it another half million feet
of lumber. When this struck the temporary boom it parted, as if the huge cable was a piece
of thread, and the logs shot past.

Just at Bryants, however, a gorge formed shortly after two o'clock Friday afternoon, and within
a remarkably short time there was a pile of logs wedged in that stretched back fully a quarter
of a mile and the top of which was more than ten feet high. This of course changed the course
of the stream a little, but the natural gorge had saved enough logs to amount to more than
$100,000 in money.

The following comments by one of our journals sum up the situation after receiving the dreadful
news of the three preceding days:

The Great Calamity.

The appalling catastrophy which has spread such awful havoc through the teeming valley of the
Conemaugh almost surpasses belief and fairly staggers imagination. Without yet measuring its
dire extent, enough is known to rank it as the greatest calamity of the natural elements which
this country has ever witnessed. Nothing in our history short of the deadly blight of battle
has approached this frightful cataclysm, and no battle, though destroying more life, has ever
left such a ghastly trail of horror and devastation. It seems more like one of those terrible
convulsions of nature from which we have hitherto been happily spared, but which at rare intervals
have swallowed up whole communities in remote South American or oriental lands.

Ingenious and masterful as the human intellect is in guiding and controlling the ordinary forces
of nature, how impotent and insignificant it appears in the presence of such a transcendent
disaster! It is well nigh inconceivable that a great section throbbing with populous towns,
and resonant with the hum of industry, should be wiped out in the twinkling of an eye by a
mighty, raging torrent, more consuming than fire and more violent than the earthquake. The
suddenness of the blow and the impossibility of communicating with the scene add to the terror
of the event. The sickening spectacle of ruin and death which will be revealed when the veil
of darkness is lifted is left to conjecture. The imagination can scarcely picture the dread
realities, and it would be difficult to overdraw the awful features of a calamity which has
every element of horror.

The River and Lake.

Nature is so framed at the fated point for such a disaster that man was called upon for unceasing
vigilance. The Conemaugh makes its channel through a narrow valley between high ranges. Numerous
streams drain the surrounding mountains into its current. Along its course swarm frequent hamlets
busy with the wealth dug from the seams of the earth. The chief of these towns, the seat of
an immense industry, lies in a little basin where the gap broadens to take in a converging
stream and then immediately narrows again, no outlet save the constricted waterway. High above
stands a great lake which is held in check only by an artificial barrier, and which, if once
unchained, must pour its resistless torrent through this narrow gorge like a besom of destruction
overwhelming everything before it. There were all the elements of an unparalleled disaster.
Years of immunity had given a feeling of security for all time without some extraordinary and
unexpected occasion. But the occasion appeared when in unforseen force the rains descended
and the floods came, and to-day desolation reigns.

A Direful Calamity.

It is impossible yet to measure the extent of the calamity. But the destruction of life and
property must be something that it is appalling to think of, and the sorrow and suffering to
follow are incalculable. A solemn obligation devolves upon the people of the whole country.
We can not remedy the past but we can alleviate the present and the future. Thousands of families
are homeless and destitute; thousands are without means of support; perchance, thousands are
bereft of the strong arms upon which they have relied. There is an instant, earnest demand
for help. Let there be immediate, energetic, generous action. Let us do our part to relieve
the anguish and mitigate the suffering of a community upon whom has fallen the most terrible
visitation in all our history.

An Historic Catastrophe.

When an American Charles Reade wishes in the future to weave into the woof of his novel the
account of some great public calamity he will portray the misfortune which overwhelmed the
towns and villages lying in the valley of the Conemaugh River. The bursting of a reservoir,
and the ensuing scenes of death and destruction, which are so vividly described in "Put Yourself
in His Place," were not the creatures of Mr. Reade's imagination, but actual occurrences. The
novelist obtained facts and incidents for one of the most striking chapters in all of his works
from the events which followed the breaking of the Dale Dyke embankment at Sheffield, England,
in March, 1864, when 238 lives were lost and property valued at millions was destroyed.

It will need even more vivid and vigorous descriptive powers than Mr. Reade possessed to adequately
delineate the scene of destruction and death now presented in Johnstown and the adjacent villages.
The Sheffield calamity, disastrous as it proved to be, was a small affair when compared with
this latest reservoir accident. The Mill River reservoir disaster of May, 1874, with its 200
lives lost and $1,500,000 of property destroyed, almost sinks into insignificance beside it.
The only recorded calamity of the kind which anywhere approaches it occurred in Estrecho de
Rientes, in Spain, in April, 1802, when a dam burst and drowned 600 persons and swept $7,000,000
worth of property away. But above all these calamities in sad pre-eminence will stand the Conemaugh
disaster.

But dark as the picture is, it will doubtless be relieved by many acts of heroism. The world
will wait to learn if there was not present at Conemaugh some Myron Day, whose ride on his
bareback steed before the advancing wall of water that burst from Mill River Dam in 1874, shouting
to the unsuspecting people as he rode: "The reservoir is breaking! The flood is coming! Fly!
Fly for your lives," was the one mitigating circumstance in that scene of woe and destruction.
When the full story of the Conemaugh calamity is told it will, doubtless, be found that there
were many deeds of heroism performed, many noble sacrifices made and many an act as brave as
any performed on the field of battle. Already we are told of husbands and mothers who preferred
to share a watery grave with their wives and children sooner than accept safety alone.

Such a calamity, while it makes the heart sick with its story of death and suffering, always
serves to bring out the better and higher qualities in men and women, and to illustrate how
closely all mankind are bound together by ties of sympathy and compassion. This fact will be
made evident now by the open-handed liberality which will quickly flow in to relieve the suffering,
and, as far as possible, to repair the loss caused by this historic calamity.

CHAPTER V.

The Awful Work of Death.

The record of June 3rd continues as follows: The horror of the situation does not lessen. The
latest estimate of the number of dead is an official one by Adjutant General Hastings, and
it places the number between 12,000 and 15,000.

The uncovering of hundreds of bodies by the recession of the waters has already filled the
air with pestilential odors. The worst is feared for the surviving population, who must breathe
this poisoned atmosphere. Sharp measures prompted by sheer necessity have resulted in an almost
complete subsidence of cowardly efforts to profit by the results of the disaster. Thieves have
slunk into places of darkness and are no longer to be seen at their unholy work.

All thoughts are now fixed upon the hideous revelation that awaits the light of day, when the
waters shall have entirely quitted the ruins that now lie beneath them, and shall have exposed
the thousands upon thousands of corpses that are massed there.

A sad and gloomy sky, almost as sad and gloomy as the human faces under it, shrouded Johnstown
to-day. Rain fell all day and added to the miseries of the wretched people. The great plain
where the best part of Johnstown used to stand was half covered with water. The few sidewalks
in the part that escaped the flood were inches thick with black, sticky mud, through which
tramped a steady procession of poor women who are left utterly destitute. The tents where the
people are housed who cannot find other shelter were cold and cheerless.

A Great Tomb.

The town seemed like a great tomb. The people of Johnstown have supped so full of horrors that
they go about in a sort of a daze and only half conscious of their griefs. Every hour, as one
goes through the streets, he hears neighbors greeting each other and then inquiring without
show of feeling how many each had lost in his family. To-day I heard a gray haired man hail
another across the street with this question.

"I lost five; all are gone but Mary and I," was the reply.

"I am worse off than that," said the first old gentleman. "I have only my grandson left. Seven
of us gone."

And so they passed on without apparent excitement. They and everyone else had heard so much
of these melancholy conversations that somehow the calamity had lost its significance to them.
They treat it exactly as if the dead persons had gone away and were coming back in a week.

The Ghastly Search.

The melancholy task of searching the ruins for more bodies went on to-day in the soaking rain.
There were little crowds of morbid curiosity hunters around each knot of workingmen, but they
were not residents of Johnstown. All their curiosity in that direction was satiated long ago.
Even those who come in from neighboring towns with the idea of a day's strange and ghastly
experiences did not care to be near after they had seen one body exhumed. There were hundreds
and thousands of these visitors from the country to-day. The effect of the dreadful things
they saw and heard was to drive most of them to drink. By noon the streets were beginning to
be full of boisterous and noisy countrymen, who were trying to counteract the strain on their
nerves with unnatural excitement. Then the chief of police, foreseeing the unseemly sights
that were likely to disgrace the streets, drove out and kept out all the visitors who had not
some good reason for their presence. After that and far into the evening all the country roads
were filled with drunken stragglers, who were trying to forget what they had seen.

One thing that makes the work of searching for the bodies very slow is the strange way that
great masses of objects were rolled into intricate masses of rubbish.

Horrible Masses.

As the flood came down the valley of the South Fork it obliterated the suburb of Woodvale,
where not a house was left, nor a trace of one. The material they had contained rolled on down
the valley, over and over, grinding it up to pulp and finally leaving it against an unusually
firm foundation or in the bed of an eddy. The masses contain human bodies, but it is slow work
to pick them to pieces. In the side of one of them I saw the remnants of a carriage, the body
of a harnessed horse, a baby cradle and a doll, a tress of woman's hair, a rocking horse, and
a piece of beefsteak still hanging on a hook.

The city is now very much better patrolled than it has been at any time since the flood occurred.
Many members of the police force of Pittsburgh came in and offered their services. One of them
showed his spirit during the first hour by striking a man, whom he saw opening a trunk among
the rubbish, a tremendous blow over the head which knocked him senseless. Several big trunks
and safes lie in full sight on the desolate plain in the lower part of the town, but no one
dared to touch them after that.

The German Catholic Church at Cambria City, a short distance west of Johnstown, is almost a
complete wreck. Rather a singular coincidence in connection with the destruction of the above
is that the Immaculate Conception, that stood in the northwest corner of the lecture rooms,
stands just as it was when last seen. The figure, which is wax, was not even scratched, and
the clothes, which are made of white silk and deep duchess lace, were spotless. This seems
strange, when the raging water destroyed everything else in the building. Hundreds of persons
visited the place during the day.

Ten Bodies an Hour.

Bodies are now being brought in at lower Cambria at the rate of ten per hour.

A man named Dougherty tells a thrilling story of a ride down the river on a log. When the waters
struck the roof of the house on which he had taken shelter he jumped astride a telegraph pole,
riding a distance of some twenty-three miles, from Johnstown to Bolivar, before he was rescued.

Many inquiries have been made as to why the militia did not respond when ordered out by Adjutant
General Hastings. "In the first place it is beyond the General's authority to order troops
to a scene of this kind unless the Governor first issues a proclamation, then it becomes his
duty to issue orders." The General said he was notified that the Pittsburgh troops, consisting
of the Fourteenth and Eighteenth regiments, had tendered their services, and no doubt would
have been of great service. The General consulted with the Chief Burgess of Johnstown and Sheriff
of Cambria county in regard to calling the troops to the scene, but both officials strenuously
objected, as they claimed the people would object to anything of this kind. As a proof of this
not a breach of peace was committed last night in Johnstown and vicinity.

It has not been generally believed that the district in the neighborhood of Kernville would
be so extremely prolific of corpses as it has proven to be. I visited that part of the town
where both the river and Stony Creek have done their worst. I found that within the past twenty-four
hours almost one thousand bodies had been recovered or were in sight. The place is one great
repository of the dead.

The Total May Never be Known.

The developments of every hour make it more and more apparent that the exact number of lives
lost in the Johnstown horror will never be known. All estimates made to this time are conservative,
and when all is known will doubtless be found to have been too small. Over one thousand bodies
have been found since sunrise to-day, and the most skeptical concede that the remains of thousands
more rest beneath the débris above the Johnstown bridge. The population of Johnstown, the surrounding
towns and the portion of the valley affected by the flood is, or was, from 50,000 to 55,000.
Numerous leading citizens of Johnstown, who survived the flood, have been interviewed, and
the concensus of opinion was that fully thirty per cent of the residents of Johnstown and Cambria
had been victims of the continued disasters of fire and water. If this be true, the total loss
of life in the entire valley cannot be less than seven or eight thousand and possibly much
greater. Of the thousands who were devoured by the flames and whose ashes rest beneath the
smoking débris above Johnstown bridge, no definite information can ever be obtained.

Hundreds Carried Miles Away.

As little will be learned of hundreds that sank beneath the current and were borne swiftly
down the Conemaugh only to be deposited hundreds of miles below on the banks and in the driftwood
of the raging Ohio. Probably one-third of the dead will never be recovered, and it will take
a list of the missing weeks hence to enable even a close estimate to be made of the number
of lives that were lost. That this estimate can never be accurate will be understood when it
is remembered that in many instances whole families and their relatives were swept away, and
found a common grave beneath the wild waste of waters. The total destruction of the city leaves
no data to even demonstrate that the names of these unfortunates ever found place on the pages
of eternity's history.

"All indications point to the fact that the death list will reach over five thousand names,
and in my opinion the missing will reach eight thousand in number," declared General D.H. Hastings
to-night.

At present there are said to have been twenty-two hundred bodies recovered. The great difficulties
experienced in getting a correct list is the great number of morgues. There is no central bureau
of information, and to communicate with the different dead houses is the work of hours. The
journey from the Pennsylvania Railroad morgue to the one in the Fourth ward school house in
Johnstown occupies at least one hour. This renders it impossible to reach all of them in one
day, particularly as some of the morgues are situated at points inaccessible from Johnstown.
At six o'clock in the evening the 630th body had been recovered at the Cambria depository for
corpses.

None Left to Care for the Dead.

Kernville is in a deplorable condition. The living are unable to take care of the dead. The
majority of the inhabitants of the town were drowned. A lean-to of boards has been erected
on the only street remaining in the town. This is the headquarters for the committee that controls
the dead. As quickly as the dead are brought to this point they are placed in boxes and then
taken to the cemetery and buried.

A supply store has opened in the town. A milkman who was overcharging for milk narrowly escaped
lynching. The infuriated men appropriated all his milk and distributed it among the poor and
then drove him out of the town. The body of the Hungarian who was lynched in an orchard was
removed by his friends during the night.

There is but one street left in the town. About one hundred and fifty-five houses are standing
where once there stood a thousand. None of the large buildings in what was once a thriving
little borough have escaped. One thousand people is a low estimate of the number of lives lost
from this town, but few of the bodies have been recovered. It is directly above the ruins and
the bodies have floated down into them, where they burned. A walk through the town revealed
a desolate sight. Only about twenty-five able-bodied men have survived and are able to render
any assistance. Men and women can be seen with black eyes, bruised faces and cut heads.

Useless Calls for Help.

The appearance of some of the ladies is heartrending. They were injured in the flood, and since
that have not slept. Their faces have turned a sickly yellow and dark rings surround the eyes.
Many have succumbed to nervous prostration. For two days but little assistance could be rendered
them. The wounded remained uncared for in some of the houses cut off by the water, and died
from their injuries alone. Some were alive on Sunday, and their shouts could be heard by the
people on the shore.

A man is now in a temporary jail in what is left of the town. He was caught stealing a gold
watch. A shot was fired at him but he was not wounded. The only thing that saved him from lynching
was the smallness of the crowd. His sentence will be the heaviest that can be given him.

Services in the chapel from which the bodies were buried consisted merely of a prayer by one
of the survivors. No minister was present. Each coffin had a descriptive card on it, and on
the graves a similar card was placed, so that bodies can be removed later by friends.

There are about thirty Catholic priests and nuns here. The sisters are devoting themselves
to the cure of the sick and injured in the hospitals, while the priests are doing anything
and everything and making themselves generally useful. Bishop Phelan, who reached here on Sunday
evening, returned to Pittsburgh on the three o'clock train yesterday afternoon. He has organized
the Catholic forces in this neighborhood, and all are devoting themselves to hard work assiduously.

Mr. Derlin, who heeded the warning as to the danger of the dam, had hurried his wife and two
children to the hills, but returned himself to save some things from his house. While in the
building the flood struck it and swept it away, jamming it among a lot of other houses and
hurling them all around with a regular churning motion. Mr. Derlin was in a fix, but went to
his top story, clambered to the roof and escaped from there to solid structures and then to
the ground. His property was entirely ruined, but he thinks himself fortunate in saving his family.

Where Woodvale once stood there is now a sea of mud, broken but rarely by a pile of wreckage.
I waded through mud and water up the valley to-day over the site of the former village. As
has been often stated, nothing is standing but the old woollen mills. The place is swept bare
of all other buildings but the ruins of the Gautier wire mill. The boilers of this great works
were carried one hundred yards from their foundations. Pieces of engines, rolls and other machinery
were swept far away from where they once stood. The wreck of a hose carriage is sticking up
out of the mud. It belonged to the crack company of Johnstown. The engine house is swept away
and the cellar is filled with mud, so that the site is obliterated.

A German watchman was on guard at the mill when the waters came. He ran for the hillside and
succeeded in escaping. He tells a graphic story of the appearance of the water as it swept
down the valley. He declares that the first wave was as high as the third story of a house.

The place is deserted. No effort is being made to clean off the streets. The mire has formed
the grave for many a poor victim. Arms and legs are protruding from the mud and it makes the
most sickening of pictures.

General Hastings' Report.

In answer to questions from Governor Beaver, Adjutant-General Hastings has telegraphed the
following:

"Good order prevailed throughout the city and vicinity last night. Police arrangements are
excellent. Not one arrest made. No need of sending troops. The Mayor of Johnstown and the Sheriff
of Cambria county, with whom I am in constant communication, request that no troops be sent.
I concur in their judgment. There is a great outside clamor for troops. Do not send tents.
Have nine hundred here, which are sufficient. I advise you to make a call on the general public
for money and other assistance.

"About two thousand bodies have been rescued and the work of embalming and burying the dead
is going on with regularity. There is plenty of medical assistance. We have a bountiful supply
of food and clothing to-day, and the fullest telegraphic facilities are afforded and all inquiries
are promptly answered.

"Have you any instructions or inquiries? The most conservative estimates here place the number
of lives lost at fully 5,000. The prevailing impression is that the loss will reach from 8,000
to 10,000. There are many widows and orphans and a great many wounded--impossible to give an
estimate. Property destroyed will reach $25,000,000. The popular estimate will reach $40,000,000
to $50,000,000.

"I will issue a proclamation to-night to the people of the country and to all who sympathize
with suffering to give aid to our deeply afflicted people. Tell them to be of good cheer, that
the sympathies of all our people, irrespective of section, are with them, and wherever the
news of their calamity has been carried responses of sympathy and aid are coming in. A single
subscription from England just received is for $1,000."

Grand View Cemetery has three hundred buried in it. All met death in the flood. They have thirty-five
men digging graves. Seven hundred dead bodies in the hospital on Bedford street, Conneaut.
One hundred dead bodies in the school-house hospital, Adam street, Conneaut. Three hundred
bodies found to-day in the sand banks along Stony Creek, vicinity of the Baltimore and Ohio;
182 bodies at Nineveh.

CHAPTER VI.

Shadows of Despair.

Another graphic account of the fearful calamity is furnished by an eye-witness: The dark disaster
of the day with its attendant terrors thrilled the world and drew two continents closer together
in the bonds of sympathy that bind humanity to man. The midnight terrors of Ashtabula and Chatsworth
evoked tears of pity from every fireside in Christendom, but the true story of Johnstown, when
all is known, will stand solitary and alone as the acme of man's affliction by the potent forces
to which humanity is ever subject.

The menacing clouds still hover darkly over the valley of death, and the muttering thunder
that ever and anon reverberates faintly in the distance seems the sardonic chuckle of the demon
of destruction as he pursues his way to other lands and other homes.

The Waters Receding.

But the modern deluge has done its worst for Johnstown. The waters are rapidly subsiding, but
the angry torrents still eddy around Ararat, and the winged messenger of peace has not yet
appeared to tell the pathetic tale of those who escaped the devastation.

It is not a hackneyed utterance to say that no pen can adequately depict the horrors of this
twin disaster--holocaust and deluge. The deep emotions that well from the heart of every spectator
find most eloquent expression in silence--the silence that bespeaks recognition of man's subserviency
to the elements and impotence to avert catastrophe. The insignificance of human life is only
fully realized by those who witness such scenes as Johnstown, Chatsworth and Ashtabula, and
to those whose memory retains the picture of horror the dread experience cannot fail to be
a fitting lesson.

A Dreary Morning.

This morning opened dark and dreary. Great drops of rain fell occasionally and another storm
seems imminent. Every one feels thankful though that the weather still remains cold, and that
the gradual putrefaction of the hundreds of bodies that still line the streams and lie hidden
under the miles of driftwood and débris is not unduly hastened.

The peculiar stench of decaying human flesh is plainly perceptible to the senses as one ascends
the bank of Stony Creek for a half mile along the smouldering ruins of the wreck, and the most
skeptical now conceive the worst and realize that hundreds--aye, perhaps thousands--of bodies
lie charred and blackened beneath this great funeral pyre. Searchers wander wearily over this
smoking mass, and as occasionally a sudden shout comes over the waters, the patient watchers
on the hill realize that another ghastly discovery has been added to that long list of revelations
that chill every heart and draw tears to the eyes of pessimists.

From the banks many charred remains of victims of flames and flood are plainly visible to the
naked eye, as the retreating waters reluctantly give up their dead. Beneath almost every log
or blackened beam a glistening skull or the blanched remnants of ribs or limbs mark all that
remains of life's hopes and dreams.

Since ten o'clock last night the fire engines have been busy. Water has been constantly playing
on the burning ruins. At times the fire seems almost extinguished, but fitful flames suddenly
break out afresh in some new quarter, and again the water and flames wage fierce combat.

The Count is Still Lacking.

As yet there is no telling how many lives have been lost. Adjutant General Hastings, who has
charge of everything, stated this morning that he supposed there were at least two thousand
people under the burning débris, but the only way to find out how many lives were lost was
to take a census of the people now living and subtract that from the census before the flood.
Said he, "In my opinion there are any way from twelve thousand to fifteen thousand lost."

Up to this morning people living here who lost whole families or parts of families hardly seemed
to realize what a dreadful calamity had befallen them. To-day, however, they are beginning
to understand the situation. Agony is stamped on the faces of every one, and it is truly a
city of mourning.

The point of observation is on the hillside, midway between the woolen mills of Woodvale and
Johnstown proper, which I reached to-day after a journey through the portions of the city from
which the waters, receding fast, are revealing scenes of unparalleled horror. From the point
on the hillside referred to an excellent view of the site of the town can be obtained. Here
it can be seen that from the line of the Pennsylvania Railroad, which winds along the base
of Prospect Hill, to a point at which St. John's Catholic Church formerly stood, and from the
stone bridge to Conemaugh, on the Conemaugh River, but twelve houses by actual count remain,
and they are in such a condition as to be practically useless. To any one familiar with the
geography of the iron city of Cambria county this will convey a vivid idea of a swarth averaging
one-half mile in width and three miles in length. In all the length and breadth of the most
peaceful and costly portion of Johnstown not a shingle remains except those adhering to the
buildings mentioned.

Houses Upside Down.

But do not think for an instant that this comprehends in full the awfulness of the scene. What
has just been mentioned is a large waste of territory swept as clean as if by a gigantic broom.
In the other direction some few of the houses still remain, but they are upside down, piled
on top of each other, and in many ways so torn asunder that not a single one of them is available
for any purpose whatever. It is in this district that the loss of life has been heartrending.
Bodies are being dug up in every direction.

On the main street, from which the waters have receded sufficiently to render access and work
possible, bodies are being exhumed. They are as thick as potatoes in a field. Those in charge
seem to have the utmost difficulty in securing the removal of bodies after they have been found.

The bodies are lying among the mass of wrecked buildings as thick as flies. The fire in the
drift above the bridge is under control and is being rapidly smothered by the Pittsburgh firemen
in charge of the work. About seven o'clock this morning a crowd of Battery B boys discovered
a family of five people in the smoking and burned ruins above the bridge. They took out father,
mother and three children, all terribly burned and mutilated. The little girl had an arm torn off.

Finding the Dead.

The work of rescuing the bodies from the mud and débris has only fairly begun, and yet each
move in that direction reveals more fully the horrible extent of the calamity. It is estimated
that already 1,800 corpses have been found in all parts of the valley and given some little
attention. Many of them were so mangled as to be beyond identification.

A regularly organized force of men has been at work most of the day upon the mass of débris
about the stone bridge. Early in the forenoon ten bodies were found close together. There was
nothing to identify them, as they were burnt almost to a crisp. Several of them must have belonged
to one household, as they were taken from under the blackened timbers of a single roof.

Soon after a man, woman and child were taken from the ruins. The child was clasped in the arms
of the woman, and the trio were evidently husband, wife and child.

It is a most distressing sight to see the relatives of people supposed to be lost standing
around and watching every body as it is pulled out, and acting more like maniacs than sensible
people.

As the work progressed the number of the ghastly finds increased. The various parties of workmen
turned out from ten to fifteen bodies and fragments of bodies an hour all day long.

Many of the corpses found had valuables still clasped in their hands. One woman taken from
the mill this morning had several diamond rings and earrings, a roll of government bonds and
some money clasped in her hands. She was a widow, and was very wealthy. Her body has been embalmed
and is at the house of relatives.

Suicide Brought Relief.

From under the large brick school-house 124 bodies were taken last night and to-day, and in
every corner and place the bodies are being found and buried as fast as possible. The necessity
for speedy burial is becoming manifest, and the stench is sickening. A number of bodies have
been found with a bullet hole in them, showing conclusively that in their maddening fright
suicide was resorted to by many.

Work was commenced during the day on the south side of the town. It is supposed that five hundred
or six hundred bodies will be found in that locality.

About twelve o'clock ten bodies were taken out of the wreck near the Cambria Library. On account
of the bruised and mangled condition, some having faces crushed in, it was impossible to identify
them. It is supposed they were guests at the Hurlbert House, which is completely demolished.

Eight bodies were recovered near the Methodist Church at eleven o'clock. It is said that fully
one hundred and fifty bodies were found last evening in a sort of pocket below the Pennsylvania
Railroad signal tower at Sang Hollow, where it was expected there would be a big find.

Kernville One Vast Morgue.

Over one thousand bodies have been taken from the river, dragged from the sluggish pools of
mud or dug out of the sand about Kernville during the day. Three hundred of them were spread
out upon the dry sand along the river's bank at one time this afternoon. The sight is one that
cannot be described, and is one of the most distressing ever witnessed. A crowd of at least
five hundred were gathered around, endeavoring to find the bodies of some friends or relatives.
There were no coffins there at the time and the bodies had to be laid on the ground. However,
five hundred coffins are on the way here, and the undertakers have sent for five hundred additional
ones. Kernville from now on will be the place where most of the bodies will be found. The water
has fallen so much that it is possible to get at the bodies. However, all the bodies have to
be dug out of the sand, and it causes no end of work.

It is thought that most of the bodies that will be found at Kernville are under a large pile
of débris, about an acre in length. This is where most of the buildings drifted, and it is
natural to suppose that the bodies floated with them. A rain is now falling, but this does
not interfere with the work. Most of the rescuing party have been up for two days, yet they
work with a determination that is wonderful.

Nineveh, the City of the Dead.

Nineveh is literally a city of the dead. The entire place is filled with corpses. At the depot
eighty-seven coffins were piled up and boxed. On the streets coffin boxes covered the sidewalks.
Improvised undertaking shops have embalmed and placed in their shrouds 198 persons. The dead
were strewn about the town in all conceivable places where their bodies would be protected
from the thoughtless feet of the living.

Most of the bodies embalmed last night had been taken out of the river in the morning by the
people at Nineveh, who worked incessantly night and day searching the river. The bodies when
found were placed in a four-horse wagon, frequently twelve at a time, and driven away. Of the
bodies taken out near Moorhead fully three-fourths are women and the rest children. But few
men are found there. In one row at the planing mill to-day were eighteen children's bodies
awaiting embalming. Next to them was a woman whose head had been crushed in so as to destroy
her features. On her hand were three diamond rings.

Dr. Graff, of the State Board of Health, stationed at Nineveh, states that up till ten o'clock
this morning they had embalmed about two hundred bodies, and by noon to-day would about double
that number, as they were fishing bodies out of the river at this point at the rate of one
every five minutes. In the driftwood and débris bodies are being exhumed, and an additional
force of undertakers has been despatched to this place.

In a Charnel House.

At the public school-house the scene beggars description. Boards have been laid from desk to
desk, and as fast as the hands of a large body of men and women can put the remains in recognizable
shape they are laid out for possible identification and removed as quickly as possible. Seventy-five
still remain, although many have been taken away, and they are being brought in every moment.
It is something horrifying to see one portion of the huge school taken up by corpses, each
with a clean white sheet covering it, and on the other side of the room a promiscuous heap
of bodies in all sorts of shapes and conditions, looking for all the world like decaying tree
trunks. Among the number identified are two beautiful young ladies named respectively Mrs.
Richardson, who was a teacher in the kindergarten school, and Miss Lottie Yost, whose sister
I afterwards noticed at one of the corners near by, weeping as if her very heart was broken.
Not a single acquaintance did she count in all of the great throng who passed her by, although
many tendered sincere sympathy, which was accentuated by their own losses.

Lost and Found.

At the station of Johnstown proper this morning the following names were added to the list
of bodies found and identified: Charles Marshall, one of the engineers Cambria Company. A touching
incident in connection with his death is that he had been married but a short time and his
widow is heartbroken.

Order at any Cost.

Ex-Sheriff C.L. Dick, who was at one time Burgess of Johnstown, has charge of a large number
of special deputies guarding the river at various points. He and a posse of his men caught
seven Hungarians robbing dead bodies in Kernville early this morning, and threw them all into
the river and drowned them. He says he has made up his mind to stand no more nonsense with
this class of persons, and he has given orders to his men to drown, shoot or hang any man caught
stealing from the dead. He said the dead bodies of the Huns can be found in the creek.

Sheriff Dick, or "Chall" as he is familiarly called, is a tall, slim man, and is well known
in Pittsburgh, principally to sportsmen. He is a first-class wing shot, and during the past
year he has won several live bird matches. He is slow to anger, but when forced into a fight
his courage is unfailing.

Shooting Looters on the Wing.

Dick wears corduroy breeches, a large hat, a cartridge belt, and is armed with a Winchester
rifle. He is a crack shot and has taken charge of the deputies in the wrecked portion of the
city. Yesterday afternoon he discovered two men and a woman cutting the finger from a dead
woman to get her rings. The Winchester rifle cracked twice in quick succession, and the right
arm of each man dropped, helplessly shattered by a bullet. The woman was not harmed, but she
was so badly frightened that she will not rob corpses again. Some five robbers altogether were
shot during the afternoon, and two of them were killed.

The lynchings in the Johnstown district so far number from sixteen to twenty.

Treasure Lying Loose.

Notwithstanding this, and the way that the town is most thoroughly under martial law, the pilfering
still goes on. The wreck is a gold mine for pilferers. A Hungarian woman fished out a trunk
down in Cambria City yesterday, and on breaking it open found $7,500 in it. Another woman found
a jewel box containing several rings and a gold watch. In one house in Johnstown there is $1,700
in money, but it is impossible to get at it.

Hanged and Riddled with Bullets.

Quite an exciting scene took place in the borough of Johnstown last night. A Hungarian was
discovered by two men in the act of blowing up the safe in the First National Bank Building
with dynamite. A cry was raised, and in a few minutes a crowd had collected and the cry of
"Lynch him!" was raised, and in less time than it takes to tell it the man was strung up to
a tree in what was once about the central portion of Johnstown. Not content with this the Vigilance
Committee riddled the man's body full of bullets. He remained hanging to the tree for several
hours, when some person cut him down and buried him with the other dead.

The stealing by Hungarians at Cambria City and points along the railroad has almost ceased.
The report of several lynchings and the drowning of two Italians while being pursued by citizens
yesterday, put an end to the pilfering for a time.

While Deputy Sheriff Rose was patrolling the river bank he found two Hungarians attempting
to rob several bodies, and at once gave chase. The men started for the woods when he pulled
out a pistol and shot twice, wounding both men badly. From the latest reports the men are still
living, but they are in a critical condition.

Cutting Off a Head for a Necklace.

It is reported that two Hungarians found the body of a lady between Woodvale and Conemaugh
who had a valuable necklace on. The devils dragged her out of the water and severed her head
from her body to get the necklace. At eleven o'clock to-day the woods were being scoured for
the men who are supposed to be guilty of the crime.

Pickets Set, Strangers Excluded.

Up till noon to-day General Hastings has had his headquarters on the east side of the river,
but this morning he came over to the burning débris, followed by about one hundred and twenty-five
men carrying coffins. He started to work immediately, and has ordered men from Philadelphia,
Harrisburg, and all eastern towns to do laboring work.

The Citizen's Committee are making desperate efforts to preserve peace, and the Hungarians
at Cambria City are being kept in their houses by men with clubs, who will not permit them
to go outside. There seems considerable race prejudice at Cambria City, and trouble may follow,
as both the English and Hungarians are getting worked up to a considerable extent.

The Sheriff has taken charge of Johnstown and armed men are this morning patrolling the city.
The people who have been properly in the limits are permitted to enter the city if they are
known, but otherwise it is impossible to get into the town. The regulation seems harsh, but
it is a necessity.

Troops Sent Home.

Battery B, of Pittsburgh, arrived in the city this morning under command of Lieutenant Sheppard,
who went to the quarters of Adjutant-General Hastings in the railroad watch tower. The General
had just got up, and as the officer approached the General said:--

"Who sent you here?"

"I was sent here by the Chamber of Commerce," replied the Lieutenant.

"Well, I want to state that there are only four people who can order you out, viz.:--The Governor,
Adjutant-General, Major General and the Commander of the Second Brigade. You have committed
a serious breach of discipline, and my advice to you is to get back to Pittsburgh as soon as
possible, or you may be mustered out of service. I am surprised that you should attempt such
an act without any authority whatever."

This seemed to settle the matter, and the battery started back to Pittsburgh. In justice to
Lieutenant Sheppard it might be stated that he was told that an order was issued by the Governor.
General Hastings stated afterwards that the sending down of the soldiers was like waving a
red flag, and it would only tend to create trouble. He said everything was quiet here, and
it was an insult to the citizens of Johnstown to send soldiers here at present.

Extortioners Held in Check.

A riot was almost caused by the exorbitant prices that were charged for food. One storekeeper
in Millville borough was charging $5 a sack for flour and seventy-five cents for sandwiches
on Sunday. This caused considerable complaint and the citizens grew desperate. They promptly
took by force all the contents of the store. As a result this morning all the stores have been
put under charge of the police. An inventory was taken and the proprietor was paid the market
price for his stock.

A strong guard is kept at the office of the Cambria Iron Company. Saturday was pay day at the
works, and $80,000 is in the safe. This became known, and the officials are afraid that an
attempt would be made to rob the place.

Sheriff Dick and a posse of his men got into a riot this afternoon with a crowd of Hungarians
at Cambria City. The Hungarians got the better of him, and he called on a squad of Battery
B boys, who charged with drawn sabres, and soon had the crowd on the run.

Men Hard at Work.

Order is slowly arising out of chaos. The survivors are slowly realizing what is the best course
to pursue. The great cry is for men. Men who will work and not stand idly by and do nothing
but gaze at the ruins. The following order was posted on a telegraph pole in Johnstown to-day:--

"Notice--During the day men who have been idle have been begged to aid us in clearing the town,
and many have not refused to work. We are now so organized that employment can be found for
every man who wants to work, and men offered work who refuse to take the same and who are able
to work must leave Johnstown for the present. We cannot afford to feed men who will not work.
All work will be paid for. Strangers and idlers who refuse to work will be ejected from Johnstown.

"By order of Citizens' Committee."

Turning Away the Idlers.

Officers were stationed at every avenue and railroad that enters the town. All suspicious looking
characters are stopped. But one question is asked. It is, "Will you work?" If an affirmative
answer is given a man escorts him to the employment bureau, where he is put to work. If not,
he is turned back. The committee has driven one or two men out of the town. There is a lot
of idle vagabond negroes in Johnstown who will not work. It is likely that a committee will
escort them out of town. They have caused the most trouble during the past terrible days.

It is a fact, although a disagreeable one to say, that not a few of the relief committees who
came to this city, came only out of curiosity and positively refused to do any work, but would
hang around the cars eating food. The leaders of the committee then had to do all the work.
They deserve much credit.

Begging for Help.

An old man sat on a chair placed on a box at the intersection of two streets in Johnstown and
begged for men. "For God's sake," he said, "can we not find men. Will not some of you men help?
Look at these men who have not slept for three days and are dropping with fatigue. We will
pay well. For God's sake help us." Tears rolled down his cheeks as he spoke. Then he would
threaten the group of idlers standing by and again plead with them. Every man it seems wants
to be a policeman.

CHAPTER VII.

Burial of the Victims.

Hundreds have been laid away in shallow trenches without forms, ceremonies or mourners. All
day long the work of burial has been going on. There was no time for religious ceremonies or
mourning and many a mangled form was coffined with no sign of mourning save the honest sympathy
of the brave men who handled them. As fast as the wagons that are gathering up the corpses
along the stream arrive with their ghastly loads they are emptied and return again to the banks
of the merciless Conemaugh to find other victims among the driftwood in the underbrush, or
half buried in the mud. The coffins are now beginning to arrive, and on many streets on the
hillside they are stacked as high as the second and third story windows.

At Kernville the people are not so fortunate. It would seem that every man is his own coffin
maker, and many a man can be seen here and there claiming the boards of what remains of his
house in which perhaps he has found the remains of a loved one, and busily patching them together
with nails and hoops or any available thing to hold the body.

When the corpses are found they are taken to the nearest dead house and are carefully washed.
They are then laid out in rows to await identification. Cards are pinned to their breasts as
soon as they are identified, and their names will be marked on the headboards at the graves.

Wholesale Funerals.

There were many rude funerals in the upper part of the town. The coffins were conveyed to the
cemeteries in wagons, each one carrying two, three or more.

At Long View Cemetery and at one or two other points long trenches have been dug to receive
the coffins. The trenches are only about three feet deep, it being thought unnecessary to bury
deeper, as almost all the bodies will be removed by friends. Nearly three hundred bodies were
buried thus to-day.

There will be no public ceremony, no funeral dirge, and but few weeping mourners. The people
are too much impressed with the necessity of immediate and constant work to think of personal
grief.

The twenty-six bodies taken to the hose house in Minersville were buried shortly after ten
o'clock yesterday morning. Of the twenty-six, thirteen were identified. Eight women, a baby
and four men were buried without having been identified.

All day yesterday men were engaged in burying the dead. They ran short of coffins, and in order
to dispose of the rapidly decomposing bodies they built rough boxes out of the floating lumber
that was caught. In this way they buried temporarily over fifty bodies in the cemetery just
above the town.

Putrefaction of dead bodies threatens the health of the whole region. Now that the waters are
fast shrinking back from the horrid work of their own doing and are uncovering thousands of
putrid and ill-smelling corpses the fearful danger of pestilence is espied, stalking in the
wake of more violent destruction.

The air is already reeking with infectious filth, and the alarm is widespread among the desolated
and overwrought population.

Cremation Best.

Incident to this phase of the situation the chief sensation of the morning was the united remonstrance
of the physicians against the extinguishment of the burning wreck of the demolished town which
is piled up against the bridge. They maintain, with a philosophy that to anxious searchers
seems heartless, that hundreds, if not thousands, of lifeless and decaying bodies lie beneath
this mass of burning ruins.

"It would be better," they say, "to permit Nature's greatest scavenger--the flames--to pursue
his work unmolested than to expose to further decay the horde of putrefying bodies that lie
beneath this débris. There can be but one result. Days will elapse before the rubbish can be
sufficiently removed to permit the recovery of these bodies, and long before that every corpse
will be a putrid mass, giving forth those frightful emanations of decaying human flesh that
in a crowded community like this can have but one result--the dreadful typhus. Every battlefield
has demonstrated the necessity of the hasty interment of decaying bodies, and the stench that
already arises is a forerunner of impending danger. Burn the wreck, burn the wreck."

Sorrow Rejects Safety.

A loud cry of indignation arose from the lips of the vast multitude and the warnings of science
were lost in the eager demands of those that sought the remains of the near and dear. The hose
was again turned upon the hissing mass, and rapidly the flames yielded to the supremacy of water.

It is almost impossible to conceive the extent of these smoking ruins. An area of eight or
ten acres above the dam is covered to a depth of forty feet with shattered houses, borne from
the resident centre of Johnstown. In each of these houses, it is estimated, there were from
one to twenty or twenty-five people. This is accepted as data upon which to estimate the number
that perished on this spot, and if the data be correct the bodies that lie beneath these ruins
must run well up into the thousands.

Members of the State Board of Health arrived in Nineveh this morning and determined to proceed
at once to dredge the river, to clean it of the dead and prevent the spreading of disease.
To this end they have wired the State Department to furnish them with the proper appliances.

Drinking Poisoned Water.

From other points in this and connecting valleys the same fear of pestilence is expressed.
The cities of Pittsburgh and Allegheny, which have a population of three hundred and fifty
thousand and drink the waters of the Allegheny River, down which corpses and débris from Johnstown
must flow unless stopped above, are in danger of an epidemic. The water is to-day thick with
mud, and bodies have been found as far south of here as Beaver, a distance of thirty miles
below Pittsburgh. To go this distance the bodies followed the Conemaugh from Johnstown to the
Kiskiminetas, at Blairsville, joining the Allegheny at Freeport, and the Ohio here, the entire
distance from this point being about one hundred and fifty miles.

"This is a very serious matter," said a prominent Pittsburgh physician who is here to me to-day,
"and one that demands the immediate attention of the Board of Health officials. The flood of
water that swept through Johnstown has cleaned out hundreds of cesspools. These and the barnyards'
manure and the dirt from henneries and swamps that were swept by the waters have all been carried
down into the Allegheny River. In addition to this there are the bodies of persons drowned.
Some of these will, in all likelihood, be secreted among the débris and never be found. Hundreds
of carcasses of animals of various kinds are also in the river.

Typhus Dreaded.

"These will decay, throwing out an animal poison. This filth and poisonous matter is being
carried into the Allegheny, and will be pumped up into the reservoir and distributed throughout
the city. The result is a cause for serious apprehension. Take, for example, the town of Hazleton,
Pa. There the filth from some outhouse was carried into the reservoir and distributed through
the town. The result was a typhoid fever epidemic and hundreds of people lost their lives.
The water that we are drinking to-day is something fearful to behold."

The municipal authorities of Pittsburgh have issued a notice embodying the above facts.

Sanitary Work.

A message was received by the Relief Committee this morning confirming the report that for
the health of the cities of Pittsburgh and Allegheny it is absolutely necessary that steps
be taken immediately to remove the bodies and drift from the river, and begging the committee
to take early action. The contract for clearing the river was awarded to Captain Jutte, and
he will start up the Allegheny this afternoon as far as Freeport, and then work down. His instructions
are to clear the river thoroughly of anything that might in any way affect the water supply.

Helping Hands.

The work of relief at the scene of the great disaster is going on rapidly. The Alliance (Ohio)
Relief Committee arrived here this morning on a special train with five carloads of provisions.
The party is composed of the most prominent iron and steel merchants of Alliance.

They have just returned from a tour of the ruined town. They have been up to Stony Creek, a
distance of five miles and up the Conemaugh River toward South Fork, a distance of two miles.

In describing their trip, one of their number said:--"I tell you the half has never been told.
It is impossible to tell the terrible tale. I thought I had seen horrible sights, and I served
five years in the War of the Rebellion, but in all my life it has never been my lot to look
upon such ghastly sights as I have witnessed to-day.

"While making the circuit of the ruined places we saw 103 bodies taken out of the débris along
the bank of the river and Stony Creek. Of this number, we identified six of the victims as
our friends."

CHAPTER VIII.

Johnstown and Its Industries.

At this point of our narrative a sketch of Johnstown, where the most frightful havoc of the
flood occurred, will interest the reader.

The following description and history of the Cambria Iron Company's Works, at Johnstown, is
taken from a report prepared by the State Bureau of Industrial Statistics:

The great works operated by the Cambria Iron Company originated in a few widely separated charcoal
furnaces, which were built by pioneer iron workers in the early years of this century. It was
chartered under the general law authorizing the incorporation of iron manufacturing companies,
in the year 1852. The purpose was to operate four old-fashioned charcoal furnaces, located
in and about Johnstown, some of which had been erected many years before. Johnstown was then
a village of 1300 inhabitants. The Pennsylvania Railroad had only been extended thus far in
1852, and the early iron manufacturers rightly foresaw a great future for the industry at this
point.

Immense Furnaces.

Coal, iron and limestone were abundant, and the new railroad would enable them to find ready
markets for their products. In 1853 the construction of four coke furnaces was commenced, and
it was two years before the first was completed, while some progress was made on the other
three. England was then shipping rails into this country under a low duty, and the iron industry,
then in its infancy, was struggling for existence.

The furnaces at Johnstown labored under greater difficulties in the years between 1852 and
1861 than can be appreciated at this late day. Had it not been for a few patriotic citizens
in Philadelphia, who loaned their credit and means to the failing company, the city of Johnstown
would possibly never have been built. Notwithstanding the protecting care of the Philadelphia
merchants, the company in Johnstown was unable to continue in business, and suspended in 1854.
Among its heaviest creditors in Philadelphia were Oliver Martin and Martin, Morrell & Co. More
money was subscribed, but the establishment failed again in 1855. D. J. Morrell, however, formed
a new company with new credit.

Recovery From a Great Fire.

The year of 1856, the first after the lease was made, was one of great financial depression,
and the following year was worse. To render the situation still more gloomy a fire broke out
in June, 1857, and in three hours the large mill was a mass of ruins. Men stood in double ranks
passing water from the Conemaugh river, 300 yards distant, with which to fight the flames.
So great was the energy, determination and financial ability of the new company that in one
week after the fire the furnaces and rolls were once more in operation under a temporary structure.
At this early stage in the manufacturing the management found it advisable to abandon the original
and widely separated charcoal furnaces and depend on newly constructed coke furnaces. As soon
as practicable after the fire a permanent brick mill was erected, and the company was once
more fully equipped. When the war came and with it the Morrill tariff of 1861 a broader field
was opened up. Industry and activity in business became general; new life was infused into
every enterprise. In 1862 the lease by which the company had been successfully operated for
seven years expired, and by a reorganization the present company was formed.

Advent of Steel Rails.

A new era in the manufacture of iron and steel was now about to dawn upon the American people.
In this year 1870 there were 49,757 tons of steel produced in the United States, while in 1880
the production was 1,058,314 tons. Open hearth steel, crucible steel and blister steel, prior
to this, had been the principal products, but were manufactured by processes too slow and too
expensive to take the place of iron. The durability of steel over iron, particularly for rails,
had long been known, but its cost of production prevented its use. In 1857 one steel rail was
sent to Derby, England, and laid down on the Midland Railroad, at a place where the travel
was so great that iron rails then in use had to be renewed sometimes as often as once in three
months. In June, 1873, after sixteen years of use, the rail, being well worn, was taken out.
During its time 1,250,000 trains, not to speak of the detached engines, etc., had passed over
it. This was the first steel rail, now called Bessemer rail, ever used.

About ten years ago the Cambria Iron Company arranged with Dr. J.H. Gautier & Sons, of Jersey
City, to organize a limited partnership association under the name of "The Gautier Steel Company,
Limited," to manufacture, at Johnstown, wire and various other forms of merchant steel. Within
less than a mile from the main works extensive mills were erected and the business soon grew
to great proportions. In a few years so much additional capital was required, owing to the
rapidly increasing business, that Dr. Gautier, then far advanced in life, wished to be relieved
of the cares and duties incident to the growing trade, and the Cambria Iron Company became
the purchaser of his works. "The Gautier Steel Company, Limited," went out of existence and
the works are now known as the "Gautier Steel Department of Cambria Iron Company."

Description of the Works.

The blast furnaces, steel works and rolling mills of the company are situated upon what was
originally a river flat, where the valley of the Conemaugh expanded somewhat just below the
borough of Johnstown, and now forming part of Millville Borough. The arrangement of the works
has been necessarily governed by the fact that they have gradually expanded from the original
rolling-mill and four old style blast furnaces to their present character and capacity of which
some idea may be obtained by the condensed description given below.

The Johnstown furnaces, Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4, form one complete plant, with stacks seventy-five
feet high, sixteen feet diameter of bosh. Steam is generated in forty boilers, fired by furnace
gas, for eight vertical direct-acting blowing engines. Nos. 5 and 6 blast furnaces form together
a second plant with stacks seventy-five feet high, nineteen feet diameter of bosh. No. 5 has
iron hot blast stoves and No. 6 has four Whitwell fire-brick hot blast stoves. The furnaces
have together six blowing engines exactly like those at Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 furnaces. The engines
are supplied with steam by thirty-two cylinder boilers.

Marvelous Machinery.

The Bessemer plant was the sixth started in the United States (July, 1871). The main building
is 102 feet in width by 165 feet in length. The cupolas are six in number. Blast is supplied
from eight Baker rotary pressure blowers driven by engines sixteen inches by twenty-four inches,
at 110 revolutions per minute. The cupolas are located on either side of the main trough, into
which they are tapped, and down which the melted metal is directed into a ten-ton ladle set
on a hydraulic weighing platform, where it is stored until the converters are ready to receive
it. There are two vessels of eight and a half tons capacity each, the products being distributed
by a hydraulic ladle crane. The vessels are blown by three engines. The Bessemer works are
supplied with steam by a battery of twenty-one tubular boilers.

The best average, although not the very highest work done in the Bessemer department is 103
heats of eight and a half tons each for twenty-four hours. The best weekly record reached 1,847
tons of ingots, the best monthly record of 20,304 tons, and the best daily output, 900 tons
ingots. All grades of steel are made in the converters from the softest wire and bridge stock
to spring steel. All the special stock, that is other than rails, is carefully analyzed by
heats, and the physical properties are determined by a tension test.

Ponderous Steam-Hammers.

The open hearth building, 120 feet in width by 155 feet in length, contains three Pernot revolving
hearth furnaces of fifteen tons capacity each, supplied with natural gas. A separate pit with
a hydraulic ladle crane of twenty tons capacity is located in front of each pan. In a portion
of the mill building, originally used as a puddle mill, is located the bolt and nut works,
wherein are made track bolts and machine bolts. This department is equipped with bolt-heading
and nut making machines, cutting, tapping and facing machines, and produces about one thousand
kegs of finished track bolts, of 200 pounds each, per month, besides machine bolts. Near this,
also, are located the axle and forging shops, in the old puddle mill building. The axle shop
has three steam hammers to forge and ten machines to cut off, centre and turn axles. The capacity
of this shop is 100 finished steel axles per day. All axles are toughened and annealed by a
patented process, giving the strongest axle possible. In the forging plant, located in the
same building, there is an 18,000 pound Bement hammer, and a ten-ton traveling crane to convey
forgings from the furnaces to the hammer. There are two furnaces for heating large ingots and
blooms for forgings.

A ventilating fan supplies fresh air to the mills through pipes located overhead, and having
outlets near the heating furnaces. One hundred thousand cubic feet of fresh air per minute
is distributed throughout the mills. The mill has in addition to its boilers, over the heating-furnaces,
a brick and iron building, located near the rail mill, 205 feet long and 45 feet wide, containing
twenty-four tubular boilers, aggregating about 2000 horse-power.

Tons of Barbed Wire.

The "Gautier Steel Department" consists of a brick building 200 feet by 500 feet, where the
wire is annealed, drawn and finished; a brick warehouse 373 feet by 43 feet; many shops, offices,
etc.; the barb wire mill, 50 feet by 256 feet, where the celebrated Cambria Link barb wire
is made; and the main merchant mill, 725 feet by 250 feet. These mills produce wire, shafting,
springs, plowshare, rake and harrow teeth and other kinds of agricultural implement steel.
In 1887 they produced 50,000 tons of this material, which was marketed mainly in the Western
states.

Grouped with the principal mills are the foundries, pattern and other shops, drafting offices,
time offices, etc., all structures being of a firm and substantial character. The company operates
about thirty-five miles of railroad tracks, employing in this service twenty-four locomotives,
and it owns 1500 cars.

In the fall of 1886 natural gas was introduced into the works.

Building up Johnstown.

Anxious to secure employment for the daughters and widows of the employees of the company who
were willing to work, its management erected a woolen mill which now employs about 300 persons.
Amusements were not neglected, and the people of Johnstown are indebted to the company for
the erection of an opera house, where dramatic entertainments are given.

The company owns 700 houses, which are rented exclusively to employees. The handsome library
erected by the company and presented to the town was stocked with nearly 7000 volumes. The
Cambria Hospital is also under the control of the beneficial association of the works. The
Cambria Clubhouse is a very neat pressed brick building on the corner of Main and Federal streets.
It was first operated in 1881, and is used exclusively for the entertainment of the guests
of the company and such of their employees as can be accommodated. The store building occupied
by Wood, Morrell & Co., limited, is a four-story brick structure on Washington street, with
three large store rooms on the first floor, the remainder of the building being used for various
forms of merchandise.

Including the surrounding boroughs, Kernville, Morrellville and Cambria City, all of which
are built up solidly to Johnstown proper, the population is about 30,000. The Cambria Iron
Company employs, in Johnstown, about 7500 people, which would certainly indicate a population
of not less than 20,000 depending upon the company for a livelihood.

A large proportion of the population of Johnstown are citizens of foreign birth, or their immediate
descendants. Those of German, Irish, Welsh and English birth or extraction predominate, with
a few Swedes and Frenchmen. As a rule the working people and their families are well dressed
and orderly; in this they are above the average. Most of the older workmen of the company,
owing largely to its liberal policy, own their houses, and many of them have houses for rent.

CHAPTER IX.

View of the Wreck.

Each visitor to the scene of the great disaster witnessed sights and received impressions different
from all others. The following graphic account will thrill every reader:

The most exaggerative imagination cannot too strongly picture the awful harvest of death, the
wreck which accompanied that terrible deluge last Friday afternoon. I succeeded in crossing
from the north side of the Little Conemaugh, a short distance above the point, to the sandy
muddy desert strewn with remnants of the buildings and personal property of those who know
not their loss.

It is almost an impossibility to gain access to the region, and it was accomplished only after
much difficulty in crossing the swiftly running stream.

Standing at a point in this abode of thousands of dead the work of the great flood can be more
adequately measured than from any one place in the devastated region. Here I first realized
the appalling loss of life and the terrible destruction of property.

It was about ten o'clock when the waters of Stony Creek rose, overflowed their banks and what
is known as the "flats," which includes the entire business portion of the city of Johnstown.
The Little Conemaugh was running high at the same time, and it had also overreached the limit
of its banks. The water of both streams soon submerged the lower portion of the town. Up to
this time there was no intimation that a terrible disaster was imminent. The water poured into
the cellars of the houses in the lower districts and rose several inches in the streets, but
as that had occurred before the people took no alarm.

Shortly after twelve o'clock the first drowning occurred. This was not because of the deluge,
it was simply the carelessness of the victim, who was a driver for the Cambria Iron Company,
in stepping into a cellar which had been filled with water. The water continued to rise, and
at twelve o'clock had reached that part of the city about a block from the point between Stony
Creek and the Little Conemaugh.

Topography of the Place.

The topography of Johnstown is almost precisely like that of Pittsburgh, only in a diminished
degree. Stony Creek comes in from the mountains on the northeast, and the Little Conemaugh
comes in from the northwest, forming the Conemaugh at Johnstown, precisely as the Allegheny
and Monongahela form the Ohio at Pittsburgh. On the west side of Stony Creek are mountains
rising to a great height, and almost perpendicularly from the water. On the north side of the
Conemaugh River mountains equally as high as those on Stony Creek confine that river to its
course. The hills in Johnstown start nearly a half mile from the business section of the city.
This leaves a territory between the two rivers of about four hundred acres. This was covered
by costly buildings, factories and other important manufactories.

When the waters of South Fork and Little Conemaugh broke over their banks into that portion
of the city known as the "flats," the business community turned its attention to putting endangered
merchandise in a place of safety.

First Alarm.

In the homes of the people the women began gathering household articles of any kind that may
have been in the cellar. Little attention was paid to the water beyond this.

Looking from the "flats" at Johnstown toward and following the Pennsylvania Railroad tracks,
which wind along the Little Conemaugh, the village of Woodville stands, or did stand, within
sight of the "flats," and is really a continuation of the city at this point.

The mountains on the south side of the Little Conemaugh rise here and form a narrow valley
where Woodville was located. Next joining this, without any perceptible break in the houses,
was the town of East Conemaugh. The extreme eastern limit of East Conemaugh is about a mile
and a half from Johnstown "flats."

A Narrow Chasm.

The valley narrows as it reaches eastward, and in a narrow chasm three miles from Johnstown
"flats" is the little settlement of Mineral Point. A few of the houses have found a place on
the mountain side out of harm's way, and so they still stand.

At East Conemaugh there is located a roundhouse of the Pennsylvania Railroad, for the housing
of locomotives used to assist trains over the mountains. The inhabitants of this place were
all employees of the Pennsylvania and the Gautier Steel Works, of the Cambria Iron Company.
The inhabitants numbered about 1,500 people. Like East Conemaugh, 2,000 or 2,500 people, who
lived at Woodville, were employees of the same corporation and the woolen mills located there.

Just below Woodville the mountains upon the south bank of the Conemaugh disappear and form
the commencement of the Johnstown "flats." The Gautier Steel Works of the Cambria Iron Company
are located at this point, on the south bank. The Pennsylvania Railroad traverses the opposite
bank, and makes a long curve from this point up to East Conemaugh.

Timely Warning to Escape.

At what is known as the point where Stony Creek and the Little Conemaugh form the Conemaugh
the mountains followed by Stony Creek take an abrupt turn northward, and the waters of the
Little Conemaugh flow into the Conemaugh at right angles with these mountains.

A few hundred feet below this point the Pennsylvania Railroad bridge crosses the Conemaugh
River. The bridge is a massive stone structure. From the east end of the bridge there is a
heavy fill of from thirty to forty feet high to Johnstown Station, a distance of a quarter
of a mile.

Within a few feet of the station a wagon bridge crosses the Little Conemaugh, five hundred
feet above the point connecting the "flats" and the country upon the north side of the river.

The Cambria Iron Company's Bessemer department lies along the north bank of the Conemaugh,
commencing at the fill, and extends for over two miles down the Conemaugh River upon its northern
bank.

Below the Cambria Iron Company's property is Millville Borough, and on the hill back of Millville
Borough is Minersville properly--the Second ward of Millville Borough.

The First ward of Millville was washed away completely.

While the damage from a pecuniary sense was large, the loss of life was quite small, inasmuch
as the people had timely warning to escape.

Below the Pennsylvania Railroad Bridge at Johnstown, upon the south bank of the Conemaugh,
was the large settlement of Cambria. It had a population of some five thousand people. At Cambria
the mountain retreats for several hundred feet, leaving a level of two or three hundred acres
in extent. Just below the bridge the Conemaugh River makes a wide curve around this level.
About eight or nine hundred houses stood upon this level.

Below Cambria stands Morrellville, a place about equal in size to Cambria.

From this description of the location of Johnstown and neighboring settlements the course of
the waters may be better understood when described. It was about ten minutes to three o'clock
Friday afternoon when Mr. West, of the local office of the Pennsylvania Railroad at Johnstown,
received a dispatch from the South Fork station, advising him to notify the inhabitants that
the big dam in the South Fork, above the city, was about to break. He at once despatched couriers
to various parts of the city, and a small section was notified of the impending danger. The
messenger was answered with,

"We will wait until we see the water."

Others called "Chestnuts!" and not one in fifty of the people who received the warning gave
heed to it.

The Débris of Three Towns.

With the waters standing several inches deep in the streets of the "flats" of the city the
deluge from South Fork Lake, burst the dam and rushed full upon Johnstown shortly after five
o'clock on Friday afternoon the last day of May.

First it swept the houses from Mineral Point down into East Conemaugh. When the flood reached
East Conemaugh the town was wiped out. This mass of débris was borne on to Johnstown, reinforced
by the material of three towns.

The Gautier steel department of the Cambria Iron Company was the first property attacked in
the city proper. Huge rolls, furnaces and all the machinery in the great mills, costing $6,000,000,
were swept away in a moment, and to-day there is not the slightest evidence that the mill ever
stood there.

Swept From the Roofs.

Westward from this point the flood swept over the flats. The houses, as soon as the water reached
them, were lifted from their foundation and hurled against their neighbors'. The people who
at the first crash of their property managed to reach the roof or some other floating material
were carried on until their frail support was driven against the next obstruction, when they
went down in the crash together.

The portion of the "flats" submerged is bounded by Clinton street to the Little Conemaugh River,
to the point at Stony Creek, then back to Clinton street by way of Bedford.

This region has an area of one mile square, shaped like a heart, and in this district there
are not more than a dozen buildings that are not total wrecks.

Ten per cent. of this district is so covered with mud, stones, rocks and other material, where
costly buildings once stood, that it will require excavating from eight to twenty feet to reach
the streets of the city.

Remnants of the City.

Of the houses standing there is the Methodist church, the club house, James McMillen's residence,
the Morrell mansion, Dr. Lohman's house and the First ward school building.

The Fourth ward school house and the Cambria Iron Works' general office building are the only
buildings standing on the north side of the river from the Pennsylvania Railroad bridge to
the limits of the "flats."

The Pennsylvania Railroad, from its station in Johnstown City nearly to Wilmore, a distance
of seven miles, had a magnificent road bed of solid rock. From East Conemaugh to the point
in Johnstown opposite the Gautier Steel Works, this road bed, ballast and all are gone. Only
a few rails may occasionally be seen in the river below.

Freaks of the Flood.

When the crash came in Johnstown the houses were crushed as easily by the huge mass as so many
buildings of sand, making much the same sound as if a pencil were drawn over the slats of a
shutter. Houses were torn from their foundations and torn to pieces before their occupants
realized their danger. Hundreds of these people were crushed to death, while others were rescued
by heroic men; but the lives of the majority were prolonged a few minutes, when they met a
more horrible death further down the stream.

There is a narrow strip extending from the club house to the point which, in some singular
manner, escaped the mass of filling that was distributed on the flats. This strip is about
200 feet wide, 300 long and from 3 to 20 feet deep. What queer turn the flood took to thus
spare this section, when the surrounding territory was covered with mud, stones and other material,
is a mystery. It is, however, one of the remarkable turns of the flood.

The German Catholic Church is standing, but is in an exceedingly shaky condition and may fall
at any minute. This and Dr. Lohman's residence are the only buildings on the plot standing
between Main street, Clinton street, Railroad street and the Little Conemaugh.

The destruction of life in this district was too awful to contemplate. It is estimated that
not more than one thousand people escaped with their lives, and it is believed that there were
fully five thousand persons remaining in the district when the flood came down. The flood wiped
out the "flat" with the exception of the buildings noted. The water was twenty feet high here
and hurled acres upon acres of houses against the Pennsylvania Railroad bridge which held it
and dammed the water up until it was forty feet high. The mass accumulated until the weight
became so great that it broke through the fill east of the bridge and the débris started out
of the temporary reservoir with an awful rush.

It was something near five o'clock when the fill broke. The water rushed across the Cambria
flats and swept every house away with the exception of a portion of a brewery. There is nothing
else standing in this district which resembles a house.

The Johnstown Post Office Building, with all the office money and stamps, was carried away
in the flood. The Postmaster himself escaped with great difficulty.

The dam broke in the centre at three o'clock on Friday afternoon, and at four o'clock it was
dry. That great body of water passed out in one hour. Park & Van Buren, who are building a
new draining system at the lake, tried to avert the disaster by digging a sluiceway on one
side to ease the pressure on the dam. They had about forty men at work and did all they could,
but without avail. The water passed over the dam about a foot above its top, beginning at about
half-past two. Whatever happened in the way of a cloud burst took place during the night. There
had been but little rain up to dark. When the workmen woke in the morning the lake was very
full and was rising at the rate of a foot an hour. It kept on rising until at two o'clock it
first began breaking over the dam and undermining it. Men were sent three or four times during
the day to warn people below of their danger.

The Break Two Hundred Feet Wide.

When the final break came, at three o'clock, there was a sound like tremendous and continued
peals of thunder; rocks, trees and earth were shot up into mid-air in great columns, and then
the wave started down the ravine. A farmer, who escaped, said that the water did not come down
like a wave, but jumped on his house and beat it to fragments in an instant. He was safe upon
the hillside, but his wife and two children were killed. At the present time the lake looks
like a cross between the crater of a volcano and a huge mud puddle with stumps of trees and
rocks scattered over it. There is a small stream of muddy water running through the centre
of the lake site. The dam was seventy feet high and the break is about two hundred feet wide,
and there is but a small portion of the dam left on either side. No damage was done to any
of the buildings belonging to the club. The whole south fork is swept, with not a tree standing.
There are but one or two small streams showing here and there in the lake. A great many of
the workmen carried off baskets full of fish caught in the mud.

Three Millions Indemnity.

It is reported that the Sportsman's Association, which owned the South Fork dam, was required
to file an indemnity bond of $3,000,000 before their charter was issued. When the bill granting
them these privileges was before the Legislature the representatives from Cambria and Blair
counties vigorously opposed its passage and only gave way, it is said, upon condition that
such an indemnifying bond was filed. This bond was to be filed with the prothonotary of Cambria
county.

Father Boyle, of Ebensburg, said the records at the county seat had no trace of such a bond.
He found the record of the charter, but nothing about the bond. As the association is known
to be composed of very wealthy people, there is much talk here of their being compelled to
pay at least a part of the damages.

The Rain Did It.

It begins to dawn on us that the catastrophe was brought about not merely by the bursting of
the dam of the old canal reservoir, but by a rainfall exceeding in depth and area all previously
recorded phenomena of the kind. The whole drainage basin of the Kiskiminetas, and more particularly
that of the Conemaugh, was affected. An area of probably more than 600 square miles poured
its precipitation through the narrow valley in which Johnstown and associate villages are located.
It is easy to see how, with a rainfall similar to that which caused the Butcher Run disaster
of a few years ago, fully from thirty to fifty times as much water became destructive. The
whole of the water of the lake would pass Suspension Bridge at Pittsburgh inside of from seven
to ten minutes, while the gorge at Johnstown, narrowed by the activity of mines for generations
past, was clearly insufficient to allow a free course for Stony Creek alone, which is a stream
heading away up in Somerset county, twenty-five or thirty miles south of Johnstown. That the
rainfall of the entire Allegheny Mountain system was unprecedented is clearly demonstrated
to any one who has watched the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers for the past three days, and
this view may serve to correct the impression in the public mind that would localize the causes
of the widespread disaster to the bursting of any single dam.

Danger Was Anticipated.

Charles Parke, of Philadelphia, the civil engineer in the employ of the South Fork Fishing
Club, in company with George C. Wilson, ex-United States District Attorney, and several other
members of the club, reached Johnstown and brought with them the first batch of authoritative
news from Conemaugh Lake, the bursting of which, it is universally conceded, caused the disaster.

Mr. Parke was at first averse to talking, and seemed more interested in informing his friends
in the Quaker City that he was still in the land of the living. On being pressed he denied
most emphatically that the dam had burst, and proceeded to explain that he first commenced
to anticipate danger on Friday morning, when the water in the lake commenced to rise at a rapid
rate. Immediately he turned his force of twenty-five Italians to opening an extra waste sluiceway
in addition to the one that had always answered before.

The five members of the club on hand all worked like horses, but their efforts were in vain,
and at three o'clock the supporting wall gave way with a sound that seemed like distant thunder
and the work was done.

The Governor's Appeal.

HARRISBURG, Pa., June 3, 1886.--The Governor issued the following:--

"COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA,    } "EXECUTIVE CHAMBER,               } "HARRISBURG, Pa., June
3, 1889.   }

"TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES:--

"The Executive of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has refrained hitherto from making any appeal
to the people for their benefactions, in order that he might receive definite and reliable
information from the centres of disaster during the late floods, which have been unprecedented
in the history of the State or nation. Communication by wire has been established with Johnstown
to-day. The civil authorities are in control, the Adjutant General of the State cooperating
with them; order has been restored and is likely to continue. Newspaper reports as to the loss
of life and property have not been exaggerated.

"The valley of the Conemaugh, which is peculiar, has been swept from one end to the other as
with the besom of destruction. It contained a population of forty thousand to fifty thousand
people, living for the most part along the banks of a small river confined within narrow limits.
The most conservative estimates place the loss of life at 5,000 human beings, and of property
at twenty-five millions. [The reader will understand that this and previous estimates were
the first and were far too small.] Whole towns have been utterly destroyed. Not a vestige remains.
In the more substantial towns the better buildings, to a certain extent, remain, but in a damaged
condition. Those who are least able to bear it have suffered the loss of everything.

"The most pressing needs, so far as food is concerned, have been supplied. Shoes and clothing
of all sorts for men, women and children are greatly needed. Money is also urgently required
to remove the débris, bury the dead, and care temporarily for the widows and orphans and for
the homeless generally. Other localities have suffered to some extent in the same way, but
not in the same degree.

"Late advices seem to indicate that there is great loss of life and destruction of property
along the west branch of the Susquehanna and in localities from which we can get no definite
information. What does come, however, is of the most appalling character, and it is expected
that the details will add new horrors to the situation.

Generous Responses.

"The responses from within and without the State have been most generous and cheering. North
and South, East and West, from the United States and from England, there comes the same hearty,
generous response of sympathy and help. The President, Governors of States, Mayors of cities,
and individuals and communities, private and municipal corporations, seem to vie with each
other in their expressions of sympathy and in their contributions of substantial aid. But,
gratifying as these responses are, there is no danger of their exceeding the necessities of
the situation.

Organized Distribution.

"A careful organization has been made upon the ground for the distribution of whatever assistance
is furnished. The Adjutant General of the State is there as the representative of the State
authorities and giving personal attention, in connection with the Chief Burgess of Johnstown
and a committee of relief to the distribution of the help which is furnished.

"A large force will be employed at once to remove the débris and bury the dead, so as to avoid
disease and epidemic.

"The people of the Commonwealth and others whose unselfish generosity is hereby heartily appreciated
and acknowledged may be assured that their contributions will be made to bring their benefactions
to the immediate and direct relief of those for whose benefit they are intended.

"JAMES A. BEAVER.

"By the Governor, CHARLES W. STONE, Secretary of the Commonwealth."

Alive to the Situation.

The Masonic Relief Committee which went from Pittsburgh to Johnstown telegraphed President
Harrison, urging the appointment of a national commission to take charge of sanitary affairs
at the scene of the disaster. It was urged that the presence of so many decaying corpses would
breed a pestilence there, besides polluting the water of the streams affecting all the country
between Pittsburgh and New Orleans.

The disasters in Pennsylvania were the subject of a conference at the White House between the
President, General Noble, the Secretary of the Interior, and Surgeon General Hamilton. The
particular topic which engaged their attention was the possibility of the pollution of the
water-supply of towns along the Conemaugh river by the many dead bodies floating down the stream.

The President was desirous that this new source of danger should be cut off, if any measures
which could be taken by the government could accomplish it. It was suggested that the decomposition
of so much human flesh and the settling of the decomposing fragments into the bed of the stream
might make the water so foul as to breed disease and scatter death in a new form among the
surviving dwellers in the valley.

Not Afraid of a Plague.

Surgeon General Hamilton expressed the opinion that the danger was not so great as might be
supposed. There would be no pollution from those bodies taken from the river before decomposition
set in, and the force of the freshet would tend to clear the river bed of any impurities in
it rather than make new deposits. The argument which had the most weight, however, with the
President was the efficiency of the local authorities. Pennsylvania has a State Board of Health
and is a State with ample means at her disposal, both in money and men, and if there is any
danger of this sort her local officials were able to deal with it. This was practically the
decision of the conference. The gentlemen will meet again, if necessary, and stand ready to
render every assistance which the situation calls for, but they will leave the control of the
matter with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania until it appears that she is unable to cope with it.

Governor Beaver to the President.

The following telegram was received by President Harrison from Governor Beaver, who made his
way from York to Harrisburg:--

"HARRISBURG, Pa., June 3, 1889.

"To the PRESIDENT, Washington:--

"The Sheriff of Cambria county says everything is quiet and that he can control the situation
without the aid of troops. The people are fairly housed and good order prevails. The supply
of food so far is equal to the demand, but supplies of food and clothing are still greatly needed.

"Conservative estimates place the loss of life at from five thousand to ten thousand, and loss
of property at from $25,000,000 to $40,000,000. The people are at work heroically, and will
have a large force to-morrow clearing away the débris.

"The sympathies of the world are freely expressed. One telegram from England gives $1,000.
I will issue a general appeal to the public to-night. Help comes from all quarters. Its universality
greatly encourages our people. I will communicate with you promptly if anything unusual occurs.

"JAMES A. BEAVER."

CHAPTER X.

Thrilling Experiences.

JOHNSTOWN, Pa., June 3, 1889.--Innumerable tales of thrilling individual experiences, each
one more horrible than the others, are told.

Frank McDonald, a conductor on the Somerset branch of the Baltimore and Ohio, was at the Pennsylvania
Railroad depot in this place when the flood came. He says that when he first saw the flood
it was thirty feet high and gradually rose to at least forty feet.

"There is no doubt that the South Fork Dam was the cause of the disaster," said Mr. McDonald.
"Fifteen minutes before the flood came Decker, the Pennsylvania Railroad agent read me a telegram
that he had just received saying that the South Fork Dam had broken. As soon as he heard this
the people in station, numbering six hundred, made a rush for a hill. I certainly think I saw
one thousand bodies go over the bridge. The first house that came down struck the bridge and
at once took fire, and as fast as the others came down they were consumed.

Saw a Thousand Persons Burn.

"I believe I am safe in saying that I saw one thousand bodies burn. It reminded me of a lot
of flies on fly paper struggling to get away, with no hope and no chance to save them.

"I have no idea that had the bridge been blown up the loss of life would have been any less.
They would have floated a little further with the same certain death. Then, again, it was impossible
for any one to have reached the bridge in order to blow it out, for the waters came so fast
that no one could have done it.

"I saw fifteen to eighteen bodies go over the bridge at the same time.

"I offered a man $20 to row me across the river, but could get no one to go, and finally had
to build a boat and get across that way."

It required some exercise of acrobatic agility to get into or out of the town. A slide, a series
of frightful tosses from side to side, a run and you had crossed the narrow rope bridge which
spanned the chasm dug by the waters between the stone bridge and Johnstown. Crossing the bridge
was an exciting task. Yet many women accomplished it rather than remain in Johnstown. The bridge
pitched like a ship in a storm. Within two inches of your feet rushed the muddy waters of the
Conemaugh. There were no ropes to guide one and creeping was more convenient than walking.

One had to cross the Conemaugh at a second point in order to reach Johnstown proper. This was
accomplished by a skiff ferry. The ferryman clung to a rope and pulled the load over.

Confusion Worse Confounded.

It is impossible to describe the appearance of Main street. Whole houses have been swept down
this one street and become lodged. The wreck is piled as high as the second story windows.
The reporter could step from the wreck into the auditorium of the Opera House. The ruins consists
of parts of houses, trees, saw logs, reels from the wire factory. Many houses have their side
walls and roofs torn up, and you can walk directly into what had been second story bedrooms,
or go in by way of the top. Further up town a raft of logs lodged in the street and did great
damage.

The best way to get an idea of the wreck is to take a number of children's blocks, place them
closely together and draw your hand through them.

At the commencement of the wreckage, which is at the opening of the valley of the Conemaugh,
one can look up the valley for miles and not see a house. Nothing stands but an old woolen mill.

As Seen by an Eye-Witness.

Charles Luther is the name of the boy who stood on an adjacent elevation and saw the whole
flood. He said he heard a grinding noise far up the valley, and looking up he could see a dark
line moving slowly toward him. He saw that it was made up of houses. On they came like the
hand of a giant clearing off his tables. High in the air would be tossed a log or beam, which
fell back with a crash. Down the valley it moved sedately and across the little mountain city.
For ten minutes nothing but moving houses were seen, and then the waters came with a roar and
a rush. This lasted for two hours, and then it began to flow more steadily.

The pillaging of the houses in Johnstown is something awful to contemplate and describe. It
makes one feel almost ashamed to call himself a man and know that others who bear the same
name have converted themselves into human vultures, preying on the dead. Men are carrying shotguns
and revolvers, and woe betide the stranger who looks even suspiciously at any article. Goods
of great value were being sold in town to-day for a drink of whiskey.

A supply store has been established in the Fourth ward in Johnstown. A line of men, women and
children, extending for a square, waited patiently to have their wants supplied.

An Improvised Morgue.

The school house has been converted into a morgue, and the dead are being buried from this
place. A hospital has been opened near by and is full of patients. One of the victims was removed
from a piece of wreckage in which he had been imprisoned three days. His leg was broken and
his face badly bruised. He was delirious when rescued.

In some places it is said the railroad tracks were scooped out to a depth of twenty feet. A
train of cars, all loaded, were run on the Conemaugh bridge. They, with the bridge, now lie
in the wreckage at this point. The Pennsylvania Railroad loses thirty-five engines and many cars.

Fire Still Raging.

The cling-cling-clang of the engines has a homelike sound. The fire has spread steadily all
day and the upper part of the drift is burning to-night. The fire engine is stationed on the
river bank and a line of hose laid far up the track to the coal mine. The flames to-night are
higher than ever before, and by its light long lines of the curious can be seen along the banks.

The natural gas has been shut off, owing to the many leaks in Johnstown. No fire is allowed
in the city. The walls of many houses are falling. Their crash can be heard across the river,
where the newspaper men are located. In the walk through the town to-day the word "danger,"
could be noticed, painted by the rescuers on the walls.

Cremated.

One of the Catholic churches in the town was burned on Saturday. A house drifted down against
it and set it on fire. A funeral was being held at the church at the time of the flood. The
congregation deserted the church and the body was burned with the building. Two large trees
passed entirely through a brick Catholic church located near the centre of the town. The building
still stands, but is a total wreck.

Colonel Norman M. Smith, of Pittsburgh, while returning from Johnstown after a visit to Adjutant
General Hastings, was knocked from the temporary bridge into the river and carried down stream
a couple of hundred yards before he was able to swim ashore. He was not hurt.

A Lucky Escape.

O.J. Palmer, travelling salesman for a Pittsburgh meat house, was on the ill-fated day express,
one car of which was washed away. He narrowly escaped drowning, and tells a horrible tale of
his experience on that occasion. The engineer, the fireman and himself, when they saw the flood
coming, got upon the top of the car, and when the coach was carried away they caught the driftwood,
and fortunately it was carried near the shore and they escaped to the hills. Mr. Palmer walked
a distance of twenty miles around the flooded district to a nearby railroad station on this side.

Freaks of the Disaster.

A novel scene was witnessed yesterday near Johnstown borough. Some women who managed to escape
from the town proper had to wear men's clothes, as their own had been torn off by the flood.

The force of the flood can be estimated by the fact that it carried three cars a mile and a
half and the tender of an engine weighing twelve tons was carried fourteen miles down the river.
A team of horses which was standing on Main street just before the flood was found a mile and
a quarter below the town yesterday.

The damage to the Cambria Iron Works was not so great as at first reported. The ends of the
blooming mill and open hearth furnace buildings were crushed in by the force of the flood.
The water rushed through the mill and tore a great pile of machinery from its fastenings and
caused other damage. The Bessemer steel mill is almost a ruin. The rolling and wire mills and
the six blast furnaces were not much damaged. This morning the company put a large force of
men at work and are making strenuous efforts to have at least a portion of the plant in operation
within a few weeks. This has given encouragement to the stricken people of Johnstown, and they
now seem to have some hope, although so many of their loved ones have met their death. The
mill yard, with its numerous railroad tracks, is nothing but a waste. Large piles of pig metal
were scattered in every direction. All the loose débris is being gathered into heaps and burned.

Hurled to a Place of Safety.

A pitiful sight was that of an old, gray haired man named Norn. He was walking around among
the mass of débris, looking for his family. He had just sat down to eat his supper when the
crash came, and the whole family, consisting of wife and eight children, were buried beneath
the collapsed house. He was carried down the river to the railroad bridge on a plank. Just
at the bridge a cross-tie struck him with such force that he was shot clear upon the pier and
was safe. But he is a mass of bruises and cuts from head to foot. He refused to go to the hospital
until he found the bodies of his loved ones.

Heroism in Bright Relief.

A Paul Revere lies somewhere among the dead. Who he is is now known, and his ride will be famous
in history. Mounted on a grand, big bay horse, he came riding down the pike which passes through
Conemaugh to Johnstown, like some angel of wrath of old, shouting his warning: "Run for your
lives to the hills! Run to the hills!"

A Cloud of Ruin.

The people crowded out of their houses along the thickly settled streets awe-struck and wondering.
No one knew the man, and some thought he was a maniac and laughed. On and on, at a deadly pace,
he rode, and shrilly rang out his awful cry. In a few moments, however, there came a cloud
of ruin down the broad streets, down the narrow alleys, grinding, twisting, hurling, overturning,
crashing--annihilating the weak and the strong. It was the charge of the flood, wearing its
coronet of ruin and devastation, which grew at every instant of its progress. Forty feet high,
some say, thirty according to others, was this sea, and it travelled with a swiftness like
that which lay in the heels of Mercury.

On and on raced the rider, on and on rushed the wave. Dozens of people took heed of the warning
and ran up to the hills.

Poor, faithful rider, it was an unequal contest. Just as he turned to cross the railroad bridge
the mighty wall fell upon him, and horse, rider and bridge all went out into chaos together.

A few feet further on several cars of the Pennsylvania Railroad train from Pittsburgh were
caught up and hurried into the caldron, and the heart of the town was reached.

The hero had turned neither to right nor left for himself, but rode on to death for his townsmen.
He was overwhelmed by the current at the bridge and drowned. A party of searchers found the
body of this man and his horse. He was still in the saddle. In a short time the man was identified
as Daniel Periton, son of a merchant of Johnstown, a young man of remarkable courage. He is
no longer the unknown hero, for the name of Daniel Periton will live in fame as long as the
history of this calamity is remembered by the people of this country.

A Devoted Operator.

Mrs. Ogle, the manager of the Western Union, who died at her post, will go down in history
as a heroine of the highest order. Notwithstanding the repeated notifications which she received
to get out of reach of the approaching danger, she stood by the instruments with unflinching
loyalty and undaunted courage, sending words of warning to those in danger in the valley below.
When every station in the path of the coming torrent had been warned she wired her companion
at South Fork, "This is my last message," and as such it shall always be remembered as her
last words on earth, for at that very moment the torrent engulfed her and bore her from her
post on earth to her post of honor in the great beyond.

Another Hero.

A telegraph operator at the railroad station above Mineral Point, which is just in the gorge
a short distance below the dam, and the last telegraph station above Conemaugh, had seen the
waters rising, and had heard of the first break in the dam. Two hours before the final break
came he sent a message to his wife at Mineral Point to prepare for the flood. It read: "Dress
the three children in their best Sunday clothes. Gather together what valuables you can easily
carry and leave the house. Go to the stable on the hillside. Stay there until the water reaches
it; then run to the mountain. The dam is breaking. The flood is coming. Lose no time."

His wife showed the message to her friends, but they laughed at her. They even persuaded her
to not heed her husband's command. The wife went home and about her work. Meanwhile the telegraph
operator was busy with his ticker. Down to Conemaugh he wired the warning. He also sent it
on to Johnstown, then he ticked on, giving each minute bulletins of the break. As the water
came down he sent message after message, telling its progress. Finally came the flood. He saw
houses and bodies swept past him. His last message was: "The water is all around me; I cannot
stay longer, and, for God's sake, all fly." Then he jumped out of his tower window and ran
up the mountain just in time to save himself. A whole town came past as he turned and looked.
Great masses of houses plunged up. He saw people on roofs yelling and crying, and then saw
collisions of houses, which caused the buildings to crush and crumble like paper.

Racing with Death.

All the time he felt that his family were safe. But it was not so with them. When the roar
of approaching water came the people of Mineral Point thought of their warning. The wife gathered
her children and started to run. As she went she forgot her husband's advice to go to the mountain
and fled down the street to the lowlands. Suddenly she remembered she had left the key of her
home in the door. She took the children and ran back. As she neared the house the water came
and forced them up between the two houses. The only outlet was toward the mountain, and she
ran that way with her children. The water chased her, but she and the children managed to clamber
up far enough to escape. Thus it was that an accident saved their lives. Only three houses
and a school-house were saved at Mineral Point.

A Dangerous Venture.

A Thrilling Escape.

Henry D. Thomas, a well-known dry goods merchant, tells the following story: "I was caught
right between a plank and a stone wall and was held in that position for a long time. The water
came rushing down and forced the plank against my chest. I felt as if it were going through
me, when suddenly the plank gave way, and I fell into the water. I grabbed the plank quickly
and in some unaccountable way managed to get the forepart of my body on it, and in that way
I was carried down the stream. All around me were people struggling and drowning, while bodies
floated like corks on the water. Some were crying for help, others were praying aloud for mercy
and a few were singing as if to keep up their courage.

A large raft which went by bore a whole family, and they were singing, 'Nearer my God to Thee.'
In the midst of their song the raft struck a large tree and went to splinters. There were one
or two wild cries and then silence. The horror of that time is with me day and night. It would
have driven a weak-minded person crazy.

"The true condition of things that night can never be adequately described in words. The water
came down through a narrow gorge, which in places was hardly two hundred feet wide. The broken
dam was at an elevation of about five hundred feet above Johnstown. The railroad bridge across
the Conemaugh River is at the lower side of Johnstown, and the river is joined there by another
mountain stream from the northeast. It was here that the débris collected and caught fire,
and I doubt if it will ever be known how many perished there. The water came down with the
speed of a locomotive. The people there are absolutely paralyzed--so much so that they speak
of their losses in a most indifferent way. I heard two men in conversation. One said: 'Well,
I lost a wife and three children.' 'That's nothing,' said the other; 'I lost a wife and six
children.'"

The Sudden Break.

A man named Maguire was met on his way from South Fork to Johnstown. He said he was standing
on the edge of the lake when the walls burst. The waters were rising all day and were on a
level with a pile of dirt which he said was above the walls of the dam. All of a sudden it
burst with a report like a cannon and the water started down the mountain side, sweeping before
it the trees as if they were chips. Bowlders were rolled down as if they were marbles. The
roar was deafening. The lake was emptied in an hour.

At the time there were about forty men at work up there, building a new draining system at
the lake for Messrs. Parke and Van Buren.

"It was about half-past two o'clock when the water reached the top of the dam. At first it
was just a narrow white stream trickling down the face of the dam, soon its proportions began
to grow with alarming rapidity, and in an extremely short space of time a volume of water a
foot in thickness was passing over the top of the dam.

"There had been little rain up to dark. Whatever happened in the way of a cloud burst took
place during the night.

"When at two o'clock the water began to flow over the dam, the work of undermining began. Men
were sent three or four times during the day

To Warn the People

below of their danger. At three o'clock there was a sound like tremendous and continued peals
of thunder. The earth seemed to shake and vibrate beneath our feet.

"There was a rush of wind, the trees swayed to and fro, the air was full of fine spray or mist:
then looking down just in front of the dam we saw trees, rocks and earth shot up into mid-air
in great columns. It seemed as though some great unseen force was at work wantonly destroying
everything; then the great wave, foaming, boiling and hissing, dashing clouds of spray hundreds
of feet in height as it came against some obstruction in the way of its mad rush, clearing
everything away before it, started on its terrible death-dealing mission down the fatal valley."

Engineer Henry's Awful Race.

Engineer Henry, of the second section of the express train, No. 8, which was caught at Conemaugh,
tells a thrilling story. His train was caught in the midst of the wave and were the only cars
that were not destroyed. "It was an awful sight," he said. "I have often seen pictures of flood
scenes, and I thought they were exaggerations, but what I witnessed last Friday changes my
former belief. To see that immense volume of water, fully fifty feet high, rushing madly down
the valley, sweeping everything before it, was a thrilling sight. It is engraved indelibly
on my memory. Even now I can see that mad torrent carrying death and destruction before it.

"The second section of No. 8, on which I was, was due at Johnstown about 10.15 in the morning.
We arrived there safely, and were told to follow the first section. When we arrived at Conemaugh
the first section and the mail were there. Washouts further up the mountain prevented our going,
so we could do nothing but sit around and discuss the situation. The creek at Conemaugh was
swollen high, almost overflowing. The heavens were pouring rain, but this did not prevent nearly
all the inhabitants of the town from gathering along its banks. They watched

The Waters Go Dashing

by and wondered whether the creek could get much higher. But a few inches more and it would
overflow its banks. There seemed to be a feeling of uneasiness among the people. They seemed
to fear that something awful was going to happen. Their suspicions were strengthened by the
fact that warning had come down the valley for the people to be on the lookout. The rains had
swelled everything to the bursting point. The day passed slowly, however.

"Noon came and went, and still nothing happened. We could not proceed, nor could we go back,
as the tracks about a mile below Conemaugh had been washed away, so there was nothing for us
to do but to wait and see what would come next.

"Some time after 3 o'clock Friday afternoon I went into the train despatcher's office to learn
the latest news. I had not been there long when I heard a fierce whistling from an engine away
up the mountain. Rushing out I found dozens of men standing around. Fear had blanched every
cheek. The loud and continued whistling had made every one feel that something serious was
going to happen. In a few moments I could hear a train rattling down the mountain. About five
hundred yards above Conemaugh the tracks make a slight curve and we could not see beyond this.
The suspense was something awful. We did not know what was coming, but no one could get rid
of the thought that something was wrong at the dam.

"Our suspense was not very long, however. Nearer and nearer the train came, the thundering
sound still accompanying it. There seemed to be something behind the train, as there was a
dull, rumbling sound which I knew did not come from the train. Nearer and nearer it came; a
moment more and it would reach the curve. The next instant there burst upon our eyes a sight
that made every heart stand still. Rushing around the curve, snorting and tearing, came an
engine and several gravel cars. The train appeared to be putting forth every effort to go faster.
Nearer it came, belching forth smoke and whistling long and loud. But

The Most Terrible Sight

was to follow. Twenty feet behind came surging along a mad rush of water fully fifty feet high.
Like the train, it seemed to be putting forth every effort to push along faster. Such an awful
race we never before witnessed. For an instant the people seemed paralyzed with horror. They
knew not what to do, but in a moment they realized that a second's delay meant death to them.
With one accord they rushed to the high lands a few hundred feet away. Most of them succeeded
in reaching that place and were safe.

"I thought of the passengers in my train. The second section of No. 8 had three sleepers. In
these three cars were about thirty people, who rushed through the train crying to the others
'Save yourselves!' Then came a scene of the wildest confusion. Ladies and children shrieked
and the men seemed terror-stricken. I succeeded in helping some ladies and children off the
train and up to the highlands. Running back, I caught up two children and ran for my life to
a higher place. Thank God, I was quicker than the flood! I deposited my load in safety on the
high land just as it swept past us.

"For nearly an hour we stood watching the mad flood go rushing by. The water was full of débris.
When the flood caught Conemaugh it dashed against the little town with a mighty crash. The
water did not lift the houses up and carry them off, but crushed them one against the other
and broke them up like so many egg shells. Before the flood came there was a pretty little
town. When the waters passed on there was nothing but

Few Broken Boards

to mark the central portion of the city. It was swept as clean as a newly brushed floor. When
the flood passed onward down the valley I went over to my train. It had been moved back about
twenty yards, but it was not damaged. About fifty persons had remained in the train and they
were safe. Of the three trains ours was the luckiest. The engines of both the others had been
swept off the track and one or two cars in each train had met the same fate.

"What saved our train was the fact that just at the curve which I mentioned the valley spread
out. The valley is six or seven hundred yards broad where our train was standing. This, of
course, let the floods pass out. It was only twenty feet high when it struck our train, which
was about in the middle of the valley.

"This fact, together with the elevation of the track, was all that saved us. We stayed that
night in the houses in Conemaugh that had not been destroyed. The next morning I started down
the valley and by 4 o'clock in the afternoon had reached Conemaugh furnace, eight miles west
of Johnstown. Then I got a team and came home.

"In my tramp down the valley I saw some awful sights. On the tree branches hung shreds of clothing
torn from the unfortunates as they were whirled along in the terrible rush of the torrent.
Dead bodies were lying by scores along the banks of the creeks. One woman I helped drag from
the mud had tightly clutched in her hand a paper. We tore it out of her hand and found it to
be a badly water-soaked photograph. It was probably a picture of the drowned woman."

Over the Bridge.

Nothing seems to have withstood the merciless sweep of the mighty on-rush of pent-up Conemaugh.
As for the houses of the town a thousand of them lie piled up in a smouldering mass to the
right of Conemaugh bridge.

At the present moment, away down in its terrible depths, this mass of torn and twisted timbers
and dead humanity is slowly burning, and the light curling smoke that rises as high almost
as the mountain, and the sickening smell that comes from the centre of this fearful funeral
pile tell that the unseen fire is feeding on other fuel than the rafters and roofs that once
sheltered the population of Johnstown.

A Ghastly Scene.

The mind is filled with horror at the supreme desolation that pervades the whole scene. It
is small wonder that the pen cannot in the hands of the most skillful even pretend to convey
one-hundredth part of what is seen and heard every hour in the day in this fearful place. At
the present moment firemen and others are out on that ghastly aggregation of woodwork and human
kind jammed against the unyielding mass of arched masonry.

Round them curls the white smoke from the smouldering interior of the heaped up houses of Johnstown.
Every now and then the gleam of an axe and a group of stooping forms tell that another ghastly
find has been made, and a whisper goes round among the hundreds of watchers that other bodies
are being brought to light.

How many hundreds or thousands there are who found death by fire at this awful spot will never
be known, and the people are already giving up hopes of ever reaching the knowledge of how
their loved and lost ones met their doom, whether in the fierce, angry embrace of the waters
of Conemaugh, or in the deadly grip of the fire fiend, who claimed the homes of Johnstown for
his own above the fatal bridge.

Every hour it becomes more and more apparent that the exact number of lives lost will never
be known. Up to the present time the disposition has been to under rather than overestimate
the number of lives sacrificed.

A Mother Rescued by Her Daughter.

A daughter of John Duncan, superintendent of the Johnstown Street Car Company, had an awful
struggle in rescuing her mother and baby sister. Mrs. Duncan and family had taken refuge on
a roof, when a large log came floating down the river, striking the house with immense force,
knocking Mrs. Duncan and daughter into the fast running river. Seeing what had happened, Alvania,
her fifteen-year-old daughter, leaped into the water, and after a hard struggle landed both
on the roof of the house.

The members of the Cambria Club tell of their battle for life in the following manner: They
were about to sit down to dinner when they heard the crash, and knowing what had occurred they
started for the attic just as the flood was upon them. When the members were assured of their
safety they at once commenced saving others by grasping them as they floated by on tree tops,
houses, etc. In this manner they saved seventy persons from death.

The Clock Stopped at 5.20.

One of the queerest sights in the centre of the town is a three-story brick residence standing
with one wall, the others having disappeared completely, leaving the floors supported by the
partitions. In one of the upper rooms can be seen a mantel with a lambrequin on it and a clock
stopped at twenty minutes after five. In front of the clock is a lady's fan, though from the
marks on the wall-paper the water has been over all these things.

In the upper part of the town, where the back water from the flood went into the valley with
diminished force, there are many strange scenes. There the houses were toppled over one after
another in a row, and left where they lay. One of them was turned completely over and stands
with its roof on the foundations of another house and its base in the air. The owner came back,
and getting into his house through the windows walked about on his ceiling. Out of this house
a woman and her two children escaped safely and were but little hurt, although they were stood
on their heads in the whirl. Every house has its own story. From one a woman shut up in her
garret escaped by chopping a hole in the roof. From another a Hungarian named Grevins leaped
to the shore as it went whirling past and fell twenty-five feet upon a pile of metal and escaped
with a broken leg. Another is said to have come all the way from very near the start of the
flood and to have circled around with the back water and finally landed on the flats at the
city site, where it is still pointed out.

CHAPTER XI.

New Tales of Horror.

The accounts contained in the foregoing chapters bring this appalling story of death down to
June 4th. We continue the narrative as given from day to day by eye-witnesses, as this is the
only method by which a full and accurate description of Johnstown's unspeakable horror can
be obtained.

On the morning of June 5th one of the leading journals contained the following announcements,
printed in large type, and preceding its vivid account of the terrible situation at Johnstown.

Death, ruin, plague! Threatened outbreak of disease in the fate stricken valley. Awful effluvia
from corpses! Swift and decisive means must be taken to clear away the masses of putrefying
matter that underlie the wreck of what was once a town. Proposed use of explosives. Crowds
of refugees are already attacked by pneumonia and the germs of typhus pervade both air and
water. Victims yet unnumbered. Dreadful discoveries hourly made! Heaps of the drowned, the
mangled and the burned are found in pockets between rocks and under packed accumulations of
sand! Pennsylvania regiments ordered to the scene to keep ward over an afflicted and heartbroken
people. Blame where it belongs. The ears of the inhabitants were dulled to fear by warnings
many times repeated--forty-two years ago the dam broke--vivid stories of witnesses of the great
tragedy--the owners of the lake must bear a gigantic burden of remorse--sufferings of survivors!

These were the terrible headings in a single issue of a newspaper.

A registry of the living who were residents of Johnstown prior to the flood was begun to-day.
Out of a total population of 39,400 the names of only 10,600 have been recorded. This may give
an approximate idea of the number of those who lost their lives.

Gaunt Menace of Pestilence.

The most important near fact of to-day is the increasing danger of pestilence.

As the work of disengaging the bodies of the dead progresses the horrible peril becomes more
and more apparent. There is need of the speediest possible measures to offset the gravity of
the sanitary situation.

From every part of the stricken valley the same cry of alarm arises, for at every point where
the dead are being discovered, as the waters continue to abate, the same peril exists.

The use of explosives, especially dynamite, has been discussed. There is some opposition to
it, but it may yet be resorted to. The great mass of ruins at the Pennsylvania Railroad bridge,
which is still smoking and smouldering, is a ghastly mine of human flesh and bones in all sorts
of hideous shapes, and unless desperate means are employed, cannot be cleared away in weeks
to come.

Still, vigorous work in that direction is being performed, and explosives will be used in a
limited degree to further it. This great work may be divided into two parts--the clearing away
of the mass of débris lodged against the Pennsylvania Railroad bridge, and the examination
and removal of the many wrecked buildings which mark the site of Johnstown.

Order Out of Chaos.

Slowly something like order is beginning to appear in the chaos of destruction. Enough militia
came to-day to put the town under strict martial law. Four hundred men of the Fourteenth regiment,
of Pittsburgh, are here. There will be no more tramping over the ruins by ungoverned mobs.
There will be no more fears of rioting.

The supplies of food are constantly growing. The much needed money is beginning to come in,
though not at all needless relief committees are beginning to go out. Better quarters for the
sufferers are being provided. Better arrangements for systematic relief are made. Something
of the deep gloom has been dispelled, though Johnstown is still the saddest spot on earth.

The systematic attempt to clear up the ruins at the gorge and get out the bodies imprisoned
there began to-day. The expectations of ghastly discoveries were more than realized. Scores
of burned and mangled bodies were removed.

Freaks of the Torrent.

The great waste where the city stood looked a little different to-day. Some attempt was made
to clear up the rubbish, and fires were burning in a dozen places to get rid of it. Tents for
the soldiers and some of the sufferers were put up in the smooth stretch of sand where a great,
five story hardware store used to stand. The dead animals that were here and there in the débris
were removed, to the benefit of the towns-people's health.

Curious things come to light where the rubbish was cleared away. The solid cobblestone pavement
had been scooped up by the force of the water and in some places swept so far away that there
was not a sign of it. Behind a house that was resting on one corner was found a wickerwork
baby carriage full of mud, but not injured or scratched in the least nor yet buried in the
mud, but looking as if it had been rolled there and left. Very close to it was a piece of railroad
iron that must have been carried half a mile, bent as it it were but common wire. Exactly on
the site of a large grocery store was a box of soap and a bundle of clothespins, while of all
the brick and stone, of which the store was built, and all the heavy furniture it contained
there was not the slightest trace.

Many articles of wearing apparel were found here, but no bodies could be discovered in the
whole stretch of the plain, from which it is inferred that most of the deaths occurred at the
gorge or else the flood swept them far away.

Reminders of a Broken Home.

One of the few buildings that are left in this part of town is the fine house of Mr. Geranheiser,
of the Cambria Iron Company. It presents a queer spectacle--that is common here but has not
often been seen before. The flood reached almost to the second floor and was strong enough
to cut away about half the house, leaving the rest standing. The whole interior of the place
can be seen just as the frightened inmates left it. The carpets are torn up from the first
floor, but the pictures are still hanging on the walls and an open piano stands against the
wall full of mud; a Brussels carpet being halfway out of the second story on the side where
the wreck was and showing exactly how high the water came. There was a centre table in the
room and an open book on it. Chairs stood about the room and the pictures were on the walls,
and half of the room was gone miles away.

Seven Acres of Wreckage.

Just below the bare plain where the business block of Johnstown stood, and above the stone
arch bridge on which the Pennsylvania Railroad crossed the river, are seven acres of the wreckage
of the flood. The horrors that have been enacted in that spot, the horrors that are seen there
every hour, who can attempt to describe? Under and amid that mass of conglomerate rubbish are
the remains of at least one thousand persons who died the most frightful of deaths.

This is the place where the fire broke out within twenty minutes after the flood. It has burned
ever since. The stone arch bridge acted as a dam to the flood, and five towns were crushing
each other against it. A thousand houses came down on the great wave of water, and were held
there a solid mass in the jaws of a Cyclopean vise.

A kitchen stove upset. The mass took fire. A thousand people were imprisoned in these houses.
A thousand more were on the roofs. For most of them there was no escape. The fire swept on
from house to house. The prisoners saw it coming and shrieked and screamed with terror, and
ran up and down their narrow quarters in an agony of fear.

Sights to Freeze Their Blood.

Thousands of people stood upon the river bank and saw and heard it all and still were powerless
to help. They saw people kneeling in the flames and praying. They saw families gathered together
with their arms around each other and waiting for death. They saw people going mad and tearing
their hair and laughing. They saw men plunge into the narrow crevices between the houses and
seek death in the water rather than wait its coming in the flames. Some saw their friends and
some their wives and children perishing before them, and some in the awful agony of the hour
went mad themselves and ran shrieking to the hillsides, and stronger men laid down on the ground
and wept.

All that night and all the next day, and far into the morning of Monday, these dreadful shrieks
resounded from that place of doom. The fire burned on, aided by the fire underneath, added
to by fresh fuel coming down the river. All that time the people stood helpless on the bank
and heard those heartrending sounds. What could they do? They could not fight the fire. Every
fire engine in the town lay in that mass of rubbish smashed to bits. For hours they had to
wait until they could get telegraph word to surrounding towns, and hours more until the fire
engines arrived at noon on Monday.

Wrecks of Five Iron Bridges.

The shrieks ceased early in the morning. Men had began to search the ruins and had taken out
the few that still lived. The fire engines began to play on the still smouldering fire. Other
workmen began to remove the bodies. The fire had swept over the whole mass from shore to shore
and burned it to the water. A great field of crushed and charred timbers was all that was left.
The flood had gorged this in so tightly that it made a solid bridge above the water. A tremendous,
irresistible force had ground and churned and macerated the débris until it was a confused,
solid, almost welded, conglomerate, stretching from shore to shore, jammed high up against
the stone bridge and extending up the river a quarter of a mile, perhaps half as wide. In this
tangled heap and crush of matter were the twisted wrecks of five iron bridges, smashed locomotives,
splintered dwellings and all their contents; human beings and domestic animals, hay and factory
machinery; the rich contents of stores and brick walls ground to powder--all the products of
human industry, all the elements of human interests, twisted, turned, broken in a mighty mill
and all thrown together.

A Sickening Spectacle.

I walked over this extraordinary mass this morning and saw the fragments of thousands of articles.
In one place the roofs of forty frame houses were packed in together just as you would place
forty bended cards one on top of another. The iron rods of a bridge were twisted into a perfect
spiral six times around one of the girders. Just beneath it was a woman's trunk, broken up
and half filled with sand, with silk dresses and a veil streaming out of it. From under the
trunk men were lifting the body of its owner, perhaps, so burned, so horribly mutilated, so
torn from limb to limb, that even the workmen, who have seen so many of these frightful sights
that they have begun to get used to them, turned away sick at heart.

I saw in one place a wrecked grocery store--bins of coffee and tea, flour, spices and nuts,
parts of the counter and safe mingled together. Near it was the pantry of the house, still
partly intact, the plates and saucers regularly piled up, a waiter and a teapot, but not a
sign of the woodwork, not a recognizable outline of a house. In another place a halter, with
a part of a horse's head tied to a bit of a manger, and a mass of hay and straw about, but
no other signs of the stable in which the horse was burned. Two cindered towels, a cake of
soap in a dish, and a bit of carpet were taken to indicate the location of a hotel. I saw a
child's skull in a bed of ashes, but no sign of a body.

Recognized by Fragments.

In another place was a human foot and crumbling indications of a boot, but no signs of a body.
A hay rick, half ashes, stood near the centre of the gorge. Workmen who dug about it to-day
found a chicken coop, and in it two chickens, not only alive but clucking happily when they
were released. A woman's hat, half burned; a reticule, with a part of a hand still clinging
to it; two shoes and part of a dress told the story of one unfortunate's death. Close at hand
a commercial traveller had perished. There was his broken valise, still full of samples, fragments
of his shoes and some pieces of his clothing.

Scenes like these were occurring all over the charred field where men were working with pick
and axe and lifting out the poor, shattered remains of human beings, nearly always past recognition
or identification, except by guesswork, or the locality where they were found. Articles of
domestic use scattered through the rubbish helped to tell who some of the bodies were. Part
of a set of dinner plates told one man where in the intangible mass his house was. In one place
was a photograph album with one picture recognizable. From this the body of a child near by
was identified. A man who had spent a day and all night looking for the body of his wife, was
directed to her remains by part of a trunk lid.

Dead Bodies Caressed.

Poor old John Jordan, of Conemaugh! Many a tear ran over swarthy cheeks for him to-day. All
his family, his wife and children, had been swept from his sight in the flood. He wandered
over the gorge yesterday looking for them, and last night the police could not bring him away.
At daylight he found his wife's sewing machine and called the workmen to help him. First they
found a little boy's jacket that he recognized and then they came upon the rest of them all
buried together, the mother's burned arms still clinging to the little children. Then the white
headed old man sat down in the ashes and caressed the dead bodies and talked to them just as
if they were alive until some one came and led him quietly away. Without a protest he went
to the shore and sat down on a rock and talked to himself, and then got up and disappeared
on the hills.

To Blow Up the Gorge.

Was this the only such scene the day saw? There were scores like it. People worked in ruins
all day to find their relatives and then went home with horrible uncertainty. People found
what they were looking for and fainted at the sight. People looked and cried aloud and came
and stood on the banks all day, afraid to look and still afraid to go away. The burned bodies
are not the only ones in the gorge. Under the timbers and held down in the water there must
be hundreds that escaped the fire, but were drowned. To get at these the gorge is to be blown
up with dynamite. The sanitary reasons for such a step are becoming hourly more apparent. It
is the belief of the physicians that a pestilence will be added to the other horrors of the
place if such a thing is not done. All day the bodies have been brought to shore. Those that
were not recognized were carried on stretchers to the Morgue. One hundred and twenty of the
identified bodies were carried over the bridge in one procession.

Relief work for the suffering goes on at the headquarters of the Relief Committee on that little,
muddy, rubbish-filled street which escaped destruction at the edge of the flood.

The building is a wretched shanty, once a Hungarian boarding-house, and a long line of miserable
women stretches out in front of it all day waiting for relief. They are the unfortunate who
have lost everything in the flood.

Quarters for five thousand of these people are provided in tents on the hillside. For provisions
they are dependent on the charity of the country. Bread and meat are served out to them on
the committee's order.

They are the most mournful and pitiable sight. There was not one in the line who had not lost
some one dear to her. Most of them were the wives of merchants or laborers who went down in
the disaster. They were the sole survivors of their families. Very few had any more clothes
than they wore when their houses were washed away. They stood there for hours in the rain yesterday
without any protection, soaked with the drizzle, squalid and utterly forlorn--a sight to move
a heart of stone.

Silent Sufferers.

They did not talk to one another as women generally do even when they are not acquainted. They
got no words of sympathy from any one, and they gave none. Not a word was spoken along the
whole line. They simply stood and waited. In truth there is nothing about the survivors of
the disaster that strikes one so forcibly as their evident inability to comprehend their misfortune
and the absence of sympathetic expressions among them. It is not because they are naturally
stolid, but the whole thing is so vast and bears upon them so heavily they cannot grasp it.

People in California know much more about the disaster than any resident of Johnstown knows;
more information about it can be gotten from towns-people forty miles away than from those
who saw it. The people here are not at all lacking in sympathy or kindliness of heart, but
what words of sympathy would have any meaning in such a tremendous catastrophe? Every person
of Johnstown has lost a relative or a friend, and so has every other resident he meets. They
seem to see instinctively that condolence would be meaningless.

Famine Happily Averted.

On the west side of the lower town one or two little streets are left from the flood. They
are crowded all the time with the survivors. As I have gone among them I have heard nothing
but such conversations as this, which is literally reproduced:--

"Hello, Will! Where's Jim?"

"He's lost."

"Is that so! Goodby."

Another was:--

"Good morning, Mr. Holden; did you save Mrs. Holden?"

"No; she went with the house. You lost your two boys, didn't you?"

"Yes. Good morning."

Two women met on the narrow rope bridge which spans the creek. As they passed one said:--

"How about Aunt Mary?"

"Oh, she's lost; so is Cousin Hattie."

It gives an outside listener a strange sensation to hear people talk thus with about as little
emotion as they would talk about the weather. But the people of Johnstown had so much to do
with death that they think about nothing else. I will undertake to say that half the people
have not the slightest idea what day of the week or month this is.

A Rope Bridge of Sighs.

To get from one part of the town to another it is necessary to cross the river or creek which
is now flowing over the sites of business blocks. Of course every vestige of a bridge was swept
far away, and to take their places two ropes have been hung from high timbers built upon the
sandy island that was the city's site. On these ropes narrow boards are tied. The whole structure
is not more than four feet wide, and it hangs trembling over the water in a way that makes
nervous people shudder. Over this frail thing hundreds of people crowd every hour, and why
there has not been another disaster is something no one can understand.

The river is rising steadily, and all the afternoon the middle of the bridge sagged down into
the water, but the people kept on struggling across. Many of them carried coffins containing
bodies from the Morgue. There are no express wagons, no hearses--scarcely any vehicles of any
kind in the town--and all the coffins have to be carried on the shoulders of the men.

Coffins are a dreadfully common sight. It is impossible to move a dozen steps in any direction
without meeting one or very likely a procession of of them. One hundred of them were piled
up in front of the Morgue this morning. Twice as many more were on the platform of the Pennsylvania
station. Carloads of coffins were being unloaded from freight cars below town and carried along
the roads. Almost every house has a coffin in it. Every boat that crosses the river carries
one, and rows of them stood by the bank to receive the bodies.

Merely a Mud Plain.

There is a narrow fringe of houses on each side of the empty plain, which escaped because they
were built on higher ground. Fine brick blocks and paved streets filled the business part of
the town, which was about a mile long and half a mile wide. Where these blocks stood mud is
in some places six feet deep. Over and through it all is scattered an extraordinary collection
of rubbish--boilers, car wheels, fragments of locomotives, household furniture, dead animals,
clothing, sewing machines, goods from stores, safes, passenger and street cars, some half buried
in the sand, some all exposed, helter-skelter.

It is simply impossible to realize the tremendous force exercised by the flood, though the
imagination is assisted by the presence of heavy iron beams twisted and bent, railroad locomotives
swept miles away, rails torn up, the rocks and banks slashed away, and brick walls carried
away, leaving no traces of their foundations. The few stone houses that resisted the shock
were completely stripped of all their contents and filled four feet deep with sand and powdered
débris.

A Glimpse from a Window.

