It is this infusion of passion and sentiment, the addition of the warm breath of his personal
experience, that gives the motion of life to his analytic essays, and a deep and solemn humanity
to his abstract speculations. Hazlitt felt life with an intensity which reminds us of a more
spacious age. "What a huge heap, a 'huge, dumb heap,' of wishes, thoughts, feelings, anxious
cares, soothing hopes, loves, joys, friendships, it is composed of! How many ideas and trains
of sentiment, long and deep and intense, often pass through the mind in only one day's thinking
or reading, for instance! How many such days are there in a year, how many years in a long
life, still occupied with something interesting, still recalling some old impression, still
recurring to some difficult question and making progress in it, every step accompanied with
a sense of power, and every moment conscious of the 'high endeavour and the glad success!'"[17]
What an exultant sense of power over the resources of life! What an earnest delight in the
tasting of every pleasure which the senses and the intelligence afford! His enjoyments comprehended
the widest range of sensations and activities. He loved nature, he loved books, he loved pictures,
he loved the theatre, he loved music and dancing. He loved good talk and good fellowship; he
loved an idea and anyone who was susceptible to an idea. He also loved a spirited game of rackets,
and though he hated brutality, he has left us a very vivid and sympathetic account of a prize-fight.
Above all he loved the words truth and justice and humanity. With such sensibilities, it is
no wonder that his last words should have been "I have had a happy life."

As the phrase is ordinarily understood, Hazlitt's dying expression might seem unaccountable.
Outwardly few authors have been more miserable. Like the great French sentimentalist with whom
we have compared him, a suspicious distrust of all who came near him converted his social existence
into a restless fever. He had the gift of interpreting every contradiction to one of his favorite
principles as a personal injury to himself, and in the tense state of party feeling then prevailing,
the opportunities for taking offence were not limited. Hazlitt was one of the chief marks singled
out for abuse by the critics of Government. To constant self-tormentings from within and persecution
from without, there was added the misfortune of an unhappy marriage and of a still more unhappy
love affair which lowered him in his own eyes as well as in the eyes of the world. From the
point of view of the practical man, Hazlitt's life would be declared a failure.

The result of Hazlitt's hard experiences with the realities of life was to confirm him in a
devoted attachment to the past. All his high enthusiasms, his sanguine dreams, his purest feelings
continued to live for him in the past, and it was only by recurring to their memory in the
dim distance that he could find assurance to sustain his faith. In the past all his experiences
were refined, subtilized, transfigured. A sunny afternoon on Salisbury Plain, a walk with Charles
and Mary Lamb under a Claude Lorraine sky, a visit to the Montpelier Gardens where in his childhood
he drank tea with his father--occurrences as common as these were enveloped in a haze of glory.
And rarer events, such as a visit to the pictures at Burleigh House, or to the galleries in
the Louvre, tender visions of feminine grace and sweetness, were touched in the recollection
with a depth and pathos which subdued even the most joyous impressions to a refined melancholy.
In no other English writer is this rich sentiment of the past so eloquent, and no one was better
qualified to describe its sources. "Time takes out the sting of pain; our sorrows after a certain
period have been so often steeped in a medium of thought and passion, that they 'unmould their
essence'; and all that remains of our original impressions is what we would wish them to have
been.... Seen in the distance, in the long perspective of waning years, the meanest incidents,
enlarged and enriched by countless recollections, become interesting; the most painful, broken
and softened by time, soothe."[18] The "Farewell to Essay Writing" is perfumed with the odor
of grateful memories from which the writer draws his "best consolation for the future." He
almost erects his feeling for the past into a religion. "Happy are they," he exclaims, "who
live in the dream of their own existence, and see all things in the light of their own minds;
who walk by faith and hope; to whom the guiding star of their youth still shines from afar,
and into whom the spirit of the world has not entered!... The world has no hold on them. They
are in it, not of it; and a dream and a glory is ever around them!"[19]

But this impassioned sentiment for the past was only a refuge such as Byron might seek among
the glories of by-gone ages or amid the solitary Alpine peaks, where it was possible to regain
the strength spent in grappling with the forces of the actual world and return newly nerved
to the battle. For fighting was Hazlitt's more proper element. He could hate with the same
intensity that he loved, and his hatred was aroused most by those whom he regarded as responsible
for the overturning of his political hopes. Politics had played the most important part in
his early education. In his father's house he had absorbed the spirit of protest, accustomed
himself to arguing for the repeal of the Test Act, and to declaiming against religious and
political persecution. At the age of twelve he had written an indignant letter to the Shrewsbury
Chronicle against the mob of incendiaries which had destroyed the house of Priestley, and as
a student at Hackney he showed sufficient self-reliance to develop an original "Essay on Laws."
The defence of the popular cause was with him not an academic exercise, but a religious principle.
"Since a little child, I knelt and lifted up my hands in prayer for it."[20] The emotional
warmth of his creed was heightened by the reading of Rousseau, and in Napoleon it found a living
hero on whom it could expend itself.

An uncompromising attachment to certain fundamental principles of democracy and an unceasing
devotion to Napoleon constitute the chief elements of Hazlitt's political character. He sets
forth his idea of representative government exactly in the manner of Rousseau when he proclaims
that "in matters of feeling and common sense, of which each individual is the best judge, the
majority are in the right.... It is an absurdity to suppose that there can be any better criterion
of national grievances, or the proper remedies for them, than the aggregate amount of the actual,
dear-bought experience, the honest feelings, and heart-felt wishes of a whole people, informed
and directed by the greatest power of understanding in the community, unbiassed by any sinister
motive."[21] Hazlitt was not a republican, and he disapproved of the Utopian rhapsodies of
Shelley, woven as they seemed of mere moonshine, without applicability to the evils that demanded
immediate reform. But he did insist that there was a power in the people to change its government
and its governors, and hence grew his idolatry of Napoleon, who, through all vicissitudes,
remained the "Child and Champion of the Revolution," the hero who had shown Europe how its
established despots could be overthrown.

The news of Waterloo plunged Hazlitt into deep distress, as if it had been the shock of a personal
calamity. According to Haydon, "he walked about unwashed, unshaven, hardly sober by day, always
intoxicated by night, literally for weeks." But his disappointment only strengthened his attachment
to his principles. These remained enshrined with the brightest dreams of his youth, and in
proportion as the vision faded and men were beginning to scoff at it as a shadow, Hazlitt bent
his energies to fix its outline and prove its reality. "I am attached to my conclusions," he
says, "in consequence of the pain, the anxiety, and the waste of time they have cost me."[22]
His doctrines contained nothing that was subversive of social order, and their ultimate triumph
lends the color of heroism to a consistency which people have often interpreted as proof of
a limited horizon. It is at least certain that he did not put his conscience out to market,
and that his reward came in the form of the vilest calumny ever visited upon a man of letters.

These were the most infamous years of the Quarterly Review and Blackwood's Magazine, both of
which had been founded as avowed champions of reaction. Their purpose was to discredit all
writers whose politics or the politics of whose friends differed from the Government. Everybody
knows of the fate which Keats and Shelley suffered at their hands, chiefly because they were
friends of Leigh Hunt, who was the editor of a Liberal newspaper which had displeased George
IV. Even the unoffending Lamb did not escape their brutality, perhaps because he was guilty
of admitting Hazlitt to his house. The weapons were misrepresentation and unconfined abuse,
wielded with an utter disregard of where the blows might fall, in the spirit of a gang of young
ruffians who knew that they were protected in their wantonness by a higher authority. In the
chastened sadness of his later years Lockhart, who was one of the offenders, confessed that
he had no personal grudge against any of Blackwood's victims, in fact that he knew nothing
about any of them, but that at the request of John Wilson, his fellow-editor, he had composed
"some squibberies ... with as little malice as if the assigned subject had been the court of
Pekin." The sincere regret he expressed for the pain which his "jokes" had inflicted ought
perhaps to be counted in extenuation of his errors. It may be true, as his generous biographer
suggests, that "his politics and his feud with many of these men was an affair of ignorance
and accidental associations in Edinburgh," that under different circumstances "he might have
been found inditing sonnets to Leigh Hunt, and supping with Lamb, Haydon, and Hazlitt."[23]
But meanwhile irreparable mischief had been done to many reputations, and the life of one man
had been sacrificed to his sportiveness.[24]

The signal for the attack on Hazlitt was given by the Quarterly in connection with a review
of The Round Table, Hazlitt's first book. The contents of this volume were characterized as
"vulgar descriptions, silly paradox, flat truisms, misty sophistry, broken English, ill humour
and rancorous abuse."[25] A little later, when the Characters of Shakespeare's Plays seemed
to be finding such favor with the public that one edition was quickly exhausted, the Quarterly
extinguished its sale by "proving that Mr. Hazlitt's knowledge of Shakespeare and the English
language is on a par with the purity of his morals and the depth of his understanding."[26]
The cry was soon taken up by the Blackwood's people in a series on the Cockney School of Prose.
Lockhart invented the expression "pimpled Hazlitt." It so happened that Hazlitt's complexion
was unusually clear, but the epithet clung to him with a cruel tenacity. When an ill-natured
reviewer could find nothing else to say, he had recourse to "pimpled essays" or "pimpled criticism."[27]
The climax of abuse was reached in an article entitled "Hazlitt Cross-Questioned," which a
sense of decency makes it impossible to reproduce, and which resulted in the payment of damages
to the victim. Even the publisher Blackwood speaks of it, with what sincerity it is not safe
to say, as disgusting in tone, and Murray, who was the London agent for the Magazine, refused
to have any further dealings with it. But the harm was done. Hazlitt could not walk out without
feeling that every passer-by had read the atrocious article and saw the brand of the social
outcast on his features.

In an atmosphere like this, it is scarcely to be wondered at if Hazlitt's temper, never of
the amiable sort, should have become embittered, nor is it strange that he should sometimes,
through ignorance, have committed the fault of which his enemies had been guilty in wantonness.
Not content with retaliating the full measure of malice upon the heads of his immediate assailants,
he turned the stream of his abuse upon Sir Walter Scott, whom he singled out deliberately as
the towering head of a supposed literary conspiracy. He is credited with remarking; "To pay
these fellows in their own coin, the way would be to begin with Walter Scott, and have at his
clump foot."[28] Very mean-spirited this sounds to us, who are acquainted with the nobility
of Scott's character and who know with what magnanimous wisdom he kept himself above the petty
altercations of the day. But for Hazlitt, Sir Walter was the father-in-law and friendly patron
of John Lockhart, he was the person who had thrown the weight of his powerful influence to
make John Wilson Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Edinburgh! He did not carry
his prejudice against the Author of Waverley.

In some instances Hazlitt was consciously the aggressor, but his attacks were never wanton.
He denounced Wordsworth and Coleridge and Southey because they were renegades from the cause
which lay nearest to his heart. Their apostasy was an unforgivable offence in his eyes, and
his wrath was proportioned to the admiration which he otherwise entertained for them. It is
true that he treated their motives hastily and unjustly, but none of his opponents set him
the example of charity. In the earlier years of their acquaintance Coleridge had spoken of
Hazlitt as a "thinking, observant, original man." one who "says things that are his own in
a way of his own,"[29] whereas after their estrangement he discovered that Hazlitt was completely
lacking in originality. Wordsworth, being offended at Hazlitt's review of the "Excursion,"
peevishly raked up an old scandal and wrote to Haydon that he was "not a proper person to be
admitted into respectable society."[30] Perhaps Hazlitt was not as "respectable" as his poet-friends,
but he had a better sense of fair play. At any rate, in a complete balancing of the accounts,
Hazlitt's frequent displays of ill-temper are offset by the insidious, often unscrupulous baitings
which he suffered from his opponents.

Naturally his bitterness was extended to his reflections on mankind in general. He felt as
if the human race had wilfully deceived his sanguine expectations, and he poured out his grievances
against its refractoriness, taking revenge for his public and his private wrongs, in a passage
in which high idealism is joined with personal spite, in which he has revealed himself in all
his strength and weakness, and involved his enemies in a common ruin with himself. It concludes
the essay "On the Pleasure of Hating":

"Instead of patriots and friends of freedom, I see nothing but the tyrant and the slave, the
people linked with kings to rivet on the chains of despotism and superstition. I see folly
join with knavery, and together make up public spirit and public opinions. I see the insolent
Tory, the blind Reformer, the coward Whig! If mankind had wished for what is right, they might
have had it long ago. The theory is plain enough; but they are prone to mischief, 'to every
good work reprobate.' I have seen all that had been done by the mighty yearnings of the spirit
and intellect of men, 'of whom the world was not worthy,' and that promised a proud opening
to truth and good through the vista of future years, undone by one man, with just glimmering
of understanding enough to feel that he was a king, but not to comprehend how he could be king
of a free people! I have seen this triumph celebrated by poets, the friends of my youth and
the friends of man, but who were carried away by the infuriate tide that, setting in from a
throne, bore down every distinction of right reason before it; and I have seen all those who
did not join in applauding this insult and outrage on humanity proscribed, hunted down (they
and their friends made a bye-word of), so that it has become an understood thing that no one
can live by his talents or knowledge who is not ready to prostitute those talents and that
knowledge to betray his species, and prey upon his fellow-man.... In private life do we not
see hypocrisy, servility, selfishness, folly, and impudence succeed, while modesty shrinks
from the encounter, and merit is trodden under foot? How often is 'the rose plucked from the
forehead of a virtuous love to plant a blister there!' What chance is there of the success
of real passion? What certainty of its continuance? Seeing all this as I do, and unravelling
the web of human life into its various threads of meanness, spite, cowardice, want of feeling,
and want of understanding, of indifference towards others and ignorance of ourselves--seeing
custom prevail over all excellence, itself giving way to infamy--mistaken as I have been in
my public and private hopes, calculating others from myself, and calculating wrong; always
disappointed where I placed most reliance; the dupe of friendship, and the fool of love; have
I not reason to hate and to despise myself? Indeed I do; and chiefly for not having hated and
despised the world enough."[31]--This is not exactly downright cynicism; it is more like disappointment,
beating its head frantically against the wall of circumstance. Yet through his bitterest utterances
there is felt the warm sentiment that, "let people rail at virtue, at genius and friendship
as long as they will--the very names of these disputed qualities are better than anything else
that could be substituted for them, and embalm even the most angry abuse of them."[32]

It is no wonder that Hazlitt has never been a popular favorite. With a stronger attachment
to principles than to persons, lavishing upon ideas or the fanciful creations of art a passionate
affection which he grudgingly withheld from human beings, stubbornly tenacious of a set of
political dogmas to which he was ready to sacrifice his dearest friends, morbidly sensitive
to the faintest suggestion of a personal slight, and prompter than the serpent to vent against
the aggressor the bitterness of his poison, he plays the role of Ishmael among the men of letters
in his day. The violence of his retorts when he felt himself injured and his capacity for giving
offence even when he was not directly provoked, begot a resentment in his adversaries which
blinded them to an appreciation of his genuine worth. At best they might have assented, after
his death, to the sublime pity with which Carlyle, from his spiritual altitudes, moralized
upon his struggles. "How many a poor Hazlitt must wander on God's verdant earth, like the Unblest
on burning deserts; passionately dig wells, and draw up only the dry quicksand; believe that
he is seeking Truth, yet only wrestle among endless Sophisms, doing desperate battle as with
spectre-hosts; and die and make no sign!"[33] We must appeal to the issue to determine whether
Hazlitt's battle was altogether against spectre-hosts, and whether in his quest for truth and
beauty he has drawn up nothing but quicksand. But at least Carlyle's expression recognizes
the earnestness of his purpose and the bravery with which he maintained the conflict.

Hazlitt gave himself freely and without reserve to his reader. By his side Leigh Hunt appears
affected, De Quincey theatrical, Lamb--let us say discreet. Affectation and discretion were
equally alien to Hazlitt's nature, as they concerned either his personal conduct or his literary
exercises. In regard to every impression, every prejudice, every stray thought that struggled
into consciousness, his practice was, to use his own favorite quotation,

              "To pour out all as plain
  As downright Shippen or as old Montaigne."

He has drifted far from the tradition of Addison and Steele with which his contemporaries sought
to associate him. There was nothing in him of the courtier-like grace employed in the good-humored
reproof of unimportant vices, of the indulgent, condescending admonition to the "gentle reader,"
particularly of the fair sex. In Hazlitt's hands the essay was an instrument for the expression
of serious thought and virile passion. He lacked indeed the temperamental balance of Lamb.
His insight into human nature was intellectual rather than sympathetic. Though as a philosopher
he understood that the web of life is of a mingled yarn, he has given us none of those rare
glimpses of laughter ending in tears or of tears subsiding in a tender smile which are the
sources of Lamb's depth and his charm. The same thing is true of his humor. He relished heartily
its appearance in others and had a most wholesome laugh; but in himself there is no real merriment,
only an ironic realization of the contrasts of life. When he writes, the smile which sometimes
seeks to overpower the grim fixity of his features, is frozen before it can emerge to the surface.
He lacks all the ingratiating arts which make a writer beloved. But if one enjoys a keen student
of the intricacies of character, a bold and candid critic of human imperfections, a stimulating
companion full of original ideas and deep feelings, he will find in Hazlitt an inexhaustible
source of instruction and delight. Hazlitt has long appealed to men of vigorous character and
acute intellect, men like Landor, Froude, Walter Bagehot, Robert Louis Stevenson, and Ernest
Henley, who have either proclaimed his praise or flattered him with imitation. By the friend
who knew him longest and was better qualified than any other to speak of him, he has been pronounced
as "in his natural and healthy state, one of the wisest and finest spirits breathing."[34]

II

The discovery in the seventeenth century of the Greek treatise "On the Sublime," attributed
to Longinus, with its inspired appreciation of the great passages in Greek literature so different
from the analytic manner of Aristotle, gave a decided impulse to English criticism. It was
at the same time that English prose, under the influence of French models, was developing a
more familiar tone than it had hitherto been acquainted with. The union of the enthusiasm of
Longinus with this moderated French prose resulted in the graceful prefaces of Dryden, which
remained unmatched for more than a century. The Longinian fire, breathed upon too by the genius
of Shakespeare, preserved the eighteenth century from congealing into the utter formalism of
pseudo-Aristotelian authority. Though they did not produce an even warmth over the whole surface,
the flames are observed darting through the crust even where the crust seems thickest. It is
significant that Dr. Johnson should exclaim with admiration at the criticism of Dryden, not
because Dryden judged according to rules but because his was the criticism of a poet. And he
singles out as the best example of such criticism the well-known appreciation of Shakespeare,
the very passage which Hazlitt later quoted as "the best character of Shakespeare that has
ever been written."[35] The high-priest of classicism wavered frequently in his allegiance
to some of the sacred fetishes of his cult, and had enough grace, once at least, to speak with
scorn of the "cant of those who judged by principles rather than by perception."[36]

But to judge by perception is a comparatively rare accomplishment, and so most critics continued
to employ the foot-rule as if they were measuring flat surfaces, while occasionally going so
far as to recognize the existence of certain mountain-peaks as "irregular beauties." In a more
or less conscious distinction from the criticism of external rules there developed also during
the eighteenth century what its representatives were pleased to call metaphysical criticism,
to which we should now probably apply the term psychological. This consisted in explaining
poetic effects by reference to strictly mental processes in a tone of calm analysis eminently
suited to the rationalistic temper of the age. It methodically traced the sources of grandeur
or of pathos or of humor, and then illustrated its generalization by the practice of the poets.
It could thereby pride itself on going back of the rules to the fundamental laws of human nature.
Kames's Elements of Criticism, written in 1761, became a work of standard reference, though
it did not impose on the great critics. In commending it Dr. Johnson was careful to remark,
"I do not mean that he has taught us anything; but he has told us old things in a new way."[37]
But in general Kames was considered a safer guide than the enthusiastic Longinus, who throughout
the century was looked upon with distrust. "Instead of shewing for what reason a sentiment
or image is sublime, and discovering the secret power by which they affect a reader with pleasure,
he is ever intent on producing something sublime himself, and strokes of his own eloquence."
So runs the complaint of Joseph Warton.[38] The distrust was not without ground. The danger
that the method of Longinus in the hands of ungifted writers would become a cloak for critical
ignorance and degenerate into empty bluster was already apparent.[39] Only rarely was there
a reader who could distinguish between the false and the true application of the method. Gibbon
did it in a passage which impressed itself upon the younger critics of Hazlitt's generation.
"I was acquainted only with two ways of criticising a beautiful passage: the one, to shew,
by an exact anatomy of it, the distinct beauties of it, and whence they sprung; the other,
an idle exclamation, or a general encomium, which leaves nothing behind it. Longinus has shewn
me that there is a third. He tells me his own feelings upon reading it; and tells them with
such energy, that he communicates them."[40] That vital element, the commentator's power of
communicating his own feelings, constituting as it does the difference between phrase-making
and valuable criticism, did not become prominent in English literature before the nineteenth
century.

The official criticism of the early nineteenth century as represented by the Edinburgh and
Quarterly Reviews, derives its descent directly from the eighteenth. Whatever the Government
might have thought of the politics of the Edinburgh, its literary outlook remained unexceptionably
orthodox. Jeffrey's "Essay on Beauty" is a direct copy of Alison's "Essay on Taste." Much as
Dr. Johnson in the preceding age, Jeffrey prided himself on the moral tendency of his criticism--a
morality which consisted in censuring the life of Burns and in exalting the virtuous insipidities
of Maria Edgeworth's tales as it might have been done by any faithful minister of the gospel.
To be sure he cannot be said to have held tenaciously to the old set of canons. Though he stanchly
withstood the new-fangled poetic practices of Wordsworth and of Southey, he bowed before the
great popularity of Scott and Byron, even at the cost of some of his favorite maxims. In his
writings the solvents of the older criticism are best seen at work. Jeffrey both by instinct
and training was a lawyer, and his position at the head of the most respected periodical formed
a natural temptation to a dictatorial manner. He was a judge who tried to uphold the literary
constitution but wavered in the face of a strong popular opposition. When the support of precedent
failed him, he remained without any firm conviction of his own. While his poetic taste was
quite adequate to the appreciation of a Samuel Rogers or a Barry Cornwall, it was incomparably
futile in the perception of a Wordsworth or a Shelley. In a passage composed at the end of
his long editorial career in 1829, he unconsciously announced his own extinction as a critic:

"Since the beginning of our critical career, we have seen a vast deal of beautiful poetry pass
into oblivion, in spite of our feeble efforts to recall or retain it in remembrance. The tuneful
quartos of Southey are already little better than lumber:--and the rich melodies of Keats and
Shelley,--and the fantastical emphasis of Wordsworth,--and the plebeian pathos of Crabbe, are
melting fast from the field of our vision. The novels of Scott have put out his poetry. Even
the splendid strains of Moore are fading into distance and dimness, except where they have
been married to immortal music; and the blazing star of Byron himself is receding from its
place of pride. We need say nothing of Milman, and Croly, and Atherstone, and Hood, and a legion
of others, who, with no ordinary gifts of taste and fancy, have not so properly survived their
fame, as been excluded by some hard fatality, from what seemed their just inheritance. The
two who have the longest withstood this rapid withering of the laurel, and with the least marks
of decay on their branches, are Rogers and Campbell; neither of them, it may be remarked, voluminous
writers, and both distinguished rather for the fine taste and consummate elegance of their
writings, than for that fiery passion, and disdainful vehemence, which seemed for a time to
be so much more in favour with the public."[41]

But the authority of Jeffrey did not long remain unchallenged. His unfortunate "This will never
do" became a by-word among the younger writers who were gradually awaking to the realization
of a new spirit in criticism. The protest against the methods of the dictatorial quarterlies
found expression in the two brilliant monthly periodicals, Blackwood's and the London Magazine,
founded respectively in 1817 and 1820. In these no opportunity was neglected to thrust at the
inflated pretensions of the established reviews, and, though the animus of rivalry might be
suspected of playing its part, the blows usually struck home. There is an air of absolute finality
about Lockhart's "Remarks on the Periodical Criticism of England," and his characterization
of Jeffrey in this article is a bold anticipation of the judgment of posterity.[42] The editor
of the London Magazine[43] writes with equal assurance, "We must protest against considering
the present taste as the standard of excellence, or the criticisms on poetry in the Edinburgh
Review as the voice even of the present taste." The test of critical eligibility in this age
is an appreciation of Wordsworth and a proper understanding of Coleridge his prophet, and it
is by virtue of what inspiration they drew from these oracles that John Lockhart and John Scott
became better qualified than Jeffrey or Gifford to form the literary opinions of the public.

Coleridge more than any other person was responsible for bringing about a change in the attitude
of literature toward criticism. As Hazlitt puts it with his inimitable vividness, he "threw
a great stone into the standing pool of criticism, which splashed some persons with the mud,
but which gave a motion to the surface and a reverberation to the neighbouring echoes, which
has not since subsided."[44] Whether his ideas were borrowed from the Germans or evolved in
his own brain, their importance for English literature remains the same. Coleridge's service
lay in asserting and reasserting such fundamental principles as that a critical standard is
something quite distinct from a set of external rules; that the traditional opposition between
genius and laws was based on a misconception as to the function of the critic; that all great
genius necessarily worked in accordance with certain laws which it was the function of the
critic to determine by a study of each particular work of art; that art, being vital and organic,
assumed different shapes at different epochs of human culture; that only the spirit of poetry
remained constant, while its form was molded anew by each age in accordance with the demands
of its own life; that it was no more reasonable to judge Shakespeare's plays by the practice
of Sophocles than to judge sculpture by the rules of painting. "O! few have there been among
critics, who have followed with the eye of their imagination the imperishable yet ever wandering
spirit of poetry through its various metempsychoses; or who have rejoiced with the light of
clear perception at beholding with each new birth, with each rare avatar, the human race frame
to itself a new body, by assimilating materials of nourishment out of its new circumstances,
and work for itself new organs of power appropriate to the new sphere of its motion and activity."[45]
This rare grasp of general principles was combined in Coleridge with poetic vision and a declamatory
eloquence which enabled him to seize on the more ardent and open-minded men of letters and
to determine their critical viewpoint.

William Hazlitt was among the earliest to fall under Coleridge's spell. Just how much he owed
to Coleridge beyond the initial impulse it is impossible to prove, because so much of the latter's
criticism was expressed during improvised monologues at the informal meetings of friends, or
in lectures of which only fragmentary notes remain. At any rate, while Coleridge's chief distinction
lay in the enunciation of general principles, Hazlitt's practice, in so far as it took account
of these general principles at all, assumed their existence, and displayed its strength in
concrete judgments of individual literary works. His criticism may be said to imply at every
step the existence of Coleridge's, or to rise like an elegant superstructure on the solid foundation
which the other had laid. Hazlitt communicated to the general public that love and appreciation
of great literature which Coleridge inspired only in the few elect. The latter, even more distinctly
than a poet for poets, was a critic for critics,[46] and three generations have not succeeded
in absorbing all his doctrines. But Hazlitt, with a delicate sensitiveness to the impressions
of genius, with a boundless zest of poetic enjoyment, with a firm common sense to control his
taste, and with a gift of original expression unequalled in his day, arrested the attention
of the ordinary reader and made effective the principles which Coleridge with some vagueness
had projected. To analyze in cold blood such living criticism as Hazlitt's may expose one to
unflattering imputations, but the attempt may serve to bring to light what is so often overlooked,
that Hazlitt's criticism is no random, irresponsible discharge of his sensibilities, but has
an implicit basis of sound theory.

In his History of Criticism, Mr. Saintsbury takes as his motto for the section on the early
nineteenth century a sentence from Sainte-Beuve to the effect that nearly the whole art of
the critic consists in knowing how to read a book with judgment and without ceasing to relish
it.[47] We are almost ready to believe that the French critic, in the significant choice of
the words judgment and relish, is consciously summarizing the method of Hazlitt, the more so
as he elsewhere explicitly confesses a sympathy with the English critic.[48] Hazlitt has indeed
himself characterized his art in some such terms. In one of his lectures he modestly describes
his undertaking "merely to read over a set of authors with the audience, as I would do with
a friend, to point out a favorite passage, to explain an objection; or if a remark or a theory
occurs, to state it in illustration of the subject, but neither to tire him nor puzzle myself
with pedantical rules and pragmatical formulas of criticism that can do no good to anybody."[49]
This sounds dangerously like dilettantism. It suggests the method of what in our day is called
impressionism, one of the most delightful forms of literary entertainment when practiced by
a master of literature. The impressionist's aim is to record whatever impinges on his brain,
and though with a writer of fine discernment it is sure to be productive of exquisite results,
as criticism it is undermined by the impressionist's assumption that every appreciation is
made valid by the very fact of its existence. But this was scarcely Hazlitt's idea of criticism.
Against universal suffrage in matters literary he would have been among the first to protest.
We might almost imagine we were listening to some orthodox theorist of the eighteenth century
when we hear him declaring that the object of taste "must be that, not which does, but which
would please universally, supposing all men to have paid an equal attention to any subject
and to have an equal relish for it, which can only be guessed at by the imperfect and yet more
than casual agreement among those who have done so from choice and feeling."[50] Though not
the surest kind of clue, this indicates at least that Hazlitt's rejection of "pedantical rules
and pragmatical formulas" was not equivalent to a declaration of anarchy.

For Hazlitt the assertion of individual taste meant emancipation from arbitrary codes and an
opportunity to embrace a compass as wide as the range of literary excellence. Realizing that
every reader, even the professed critic, is hemmed in by certain prejudices arising from his
temperament, his education, his environment, he was unwilling to pledge his trust to any school
or fashion of criticism. The favorite oppositions of his generation--Shakespeare and Pope,
Fielding and Richardson, English poetry and French--had no meaning for him. He was glad to
enjoy each in its kind. "The language of taste and moderation is, I prefer this, because it
is best to me; the language of dogmatism and intolerance is, Because I prefer it, it is best
in itself, and I will allow no one else to be of a different opinion."[51] This passage, in
connection with the one last quoted, may be considered as fixing the limits within which Hazlitt
gave scope to personal preference. The sum of his literary judgments reveals a taste for a
greater variety of the works of genius than is displayed by any contemporary, and the absence
of "a catholic and many-sided sympathy"[52] is one of the last imputations that should have
been brought against him. His criticism has limitations, but not such as are due to a narrowness
of literary perception.

