This goddess is the patroness of thieves. To her they pay their devotions, to obtain help to
carry on their wicked delights. Gangs meet together, and, after having offered bloody sacrifices,
and worshipped their weapons, and having drunk some intoxicating liquor, and rubbed their bodies
with oil, they go forth to rob. They have a prayer, which they offer when they worship their
weapons. It is as follows: "O, instrument formed by the goddess, Karle commands thee to cut
a passage into the house, to cut through stones, bones, bricks, wood, the earth, and mountains,
and cause the dust thereof to be carried away by the wind." Scattered throughout India, there
is a lawless set of men whose profession it is to get their food by murder. They are called
Phansiagars, or Thugs. They owe their origin and laws to Karle. They say that she told them
to become murderers and plunderers. They are called Phansiagars, from the name of the instrument
which they use when they murder people. Phansiagar means a strangler, and they use a phansi,
or noose, which they throw over the necks of those whom they intend to plunder, and strangle
them. These Phansiagars are composed of all castes, Hindoos, Mahommedans, pariahs, and chandellars.
This arises from the circumstance that they never destroy the children of those whom they rob
and murder. These children they take care of, and bring up to their own horrible mode of life.
They always murder those whom they rob, acting upon the maxim that "dead men tell no tales."
A gang of these robbers varies from a dozen to sixty or seventy persons. These divide into
small parties. Those whom they murder are travellers, whom they happen to meet on the road.
Sometimes two or three of a gang will take up their station in a choultry, or place where the
traveller stops, and while he sleeps, they rouse him from his sleep, and cast the noose over
his head and kill him. It takes two persons to kill a man. One casts the noose over his head,
and immediately tightens it with all his strength; the other strikes him on the joint of his
knees as he rises, which causes him to fall forwards. After he has fallen, they kick him on
the temples till he dies, which is usually in a minute. They never commit a murder until they
have taken every precaution not to be found out. They will follow a traveller for weeks, if
necessary, before they destroy him. After they have murdered him, they gash the body all over
and bury it. They gash it, that it may not swell, and cause cracks to take place in the ground,
which might cause the jackals to dig down to the body, and thus expose their guilt. If a dog
accompanies the person, they always kill it, lest the faithful creature should lead to the
discovery of his master. They think it to be a very good act to give a part of the plunder,
which they get when they murder a person, to their goddess. If they fail to put him to death
according to their rules, they suppose that they have made her angry, and they make offerings
to her, that she may be appeased. Thus, you see that their religion teaches them to commit
the blackest of crimes.

The reason why this people gash and bury the bodies of those whom they murder, is as follows.
They say that the goddess used to save them the trouble of burying the corpses of their victims
by eating them, thus screening the murderers from all chance of being found out. Once, after
the murder of a traveller, the body was, as usual, left unburied. One of the Phansiagars employed,
unguardedly looking behind him, saw the goddess in the act of feasting upon it. This made her
so angry, that she vowed never again to devour a body slaughtered by them; they having, by
this one act of curiosity, forfeited her favor. However, as an equivalent for withdrawing her
patronage, she plucked one of the fangs from her jaw, and gave it to them, saying that they
might use it as a pickaxe, which would never wear out. She then opened her side and pulled
out one of her ribs, which she gave them for a knife, whose edge nothing could blunt. Having
done this, she stooped down and tore off the hem of her garment, which she gave to them for
a noose, declaring that it would never fail to strangle any person about whose throat it might
be cast. She moreover commanded them to gash and bury the bodies of those whom they destroyed.

The Phansiagars bring up their children to their own profession. To learn this, the boy is
placed under the care of a tutor. Sometimes his father is his teacher. By him he is taught
that it is just as proper to murder a man, as it is to kill a snake which lies in his path
and would bite him as he passes. He is not permitted at first to see the murders, but merely
a dead body; his mind being gradually prepared for the sight. After this, the dreadful secret
of his trade is, by degrees, told him. When he expresses a wish to be engaged in this horrid
business, they tell him all about it. In the meantime he is allowed a small part of the plunder,
in order that his desire to commit these murders may be increased; since it is only by murder
that the plunder is obtained. He is from time to time allowed to assist in some things, while
the murder is taking place, or allowed to be present to see how the business is managed. It
is not, however, until he becomes a man, that he is permitted to apply the noose. To attain
this privilege, he usually devotes eight or ten years. Before he can commit a murder, his tutor
must present him with a noose. This sets him loose upon the world, as a licensed murderer.
When the tutor is about to give him the noose, he takes him apart, and solemnly enjoins it
upon him to use it with skill, as it is to be the means of his earning his food, and as his
safety will depend upon the skill with which it is used. After he receives it, he tries his
skill in strangling a person the first opportunity that offers.

By the course of education which the Phansiagars undergo, they become so fond of their dreadful
occupation, that nothing can induce them to quit it. Some who have been employed in the East
India Company's service, have always returned to their business when an opportunity offered
of a successful enterprise.

When the Phansiagars become old, they do not quit the service, but act as watchers, and decoy
the traveller, by some false tale of distress, into some distant place, where he is murdered.

Women are sometimes admitted to the society of these plunderers, and, on some occasions, are
allowed to apply the noose. They select a handsome girl, and place her in a convenient spot,
where, by her beauty, or by a false story of distress, she may decoy some unsuspecting traveller,
and be the means of his destruction. Should he be on horseback, she will induce him to take
her up behind him; after which, when an opportunity offers, she throws the noose over his head,
leaps from the horse, drags him to the ground, and strangles him. I will mention an instance.
It happened that a horseman of Coorg, in the Madras presidency, was passing by a spot where
one of these interesting-looking girls was stationed. She told him a piteous story of having
been robbed and badly treated, and begged him to assist her. Feeling sorry for her, he offered
to take her behind him, on his horse, and thus assist her a few miles on her journey. She expressed
much gratitude for his kindness, and mounted. Soon afterwards she suddenly passed a noose over
his head, and, drawing it with all her might, endeavored to pull him from his saddle. At this
moment, a number of Phansiagars started from the neighboring thicket and surrounded him. The
murderess then slipped from the horse; but the Coorg striking his heels into the horse's sides,
it threw out its hind legs with great violence, and struck to the ground the girl, who immediately
let go the cord. He then drew his sword, and, cutting his way through the robbers, effected
his escape. He wounded two of them severely. These men were shortly afterwards taken, and,
through their means, twelve others fell into the hands of the judicial officers of the king
of Coorg, including the girl who attempted the murder. They were all put to death.

And is it possible that such persons can go to heaven? How could such ever relish its pure
joys? What would they do, could they be admitted there? My dear children, it is a charity which
has no foundation, to suppose that the heathen can go to heaven. I have preached the Gospel
to tens of thousands of them, but I never saw one who had the least atom of a qualification
for that holy place. "They have all gone out of the way." Every crime which the apostle Paul
speaks of in the latter part of the first chapter of his epistle to the Romans, they commit,
and crimes of so dreadful a nature that I cannot mention them--crimes which, should they be
written in the Bible, would cause the Bible to be a sealed book for ever.

CHAPTER XV.

SELF-TORTURES OF THE HINDOOS.

My dear Children--As the heathen have no Bible to direct them, they have devised various means
by which they expect to obtain the favor of their gods, and get to heaven. I will mention some
of these.

Some burn a lamp in a temple. They think that this is a very meritorious act. Some roll on
the ground after the god, as he is carried in a great car or chariot around the temple. It
is customary for the people to build very high cars or chariots, and cover them with very beautiful
cloths. They also tie the cocoa-nut blossom and plantain-tree within them, and attach great
ropes to them. When they are ready to drag these cars, or chariots, they bring their gods of
gold or of brass from the temples, and place them on them. Then one, two, three, six, nine
hundred, and even a thousand persons, when the cars are very large, catch hold of these ropes
and drag them around the temple. While they are doing this, many of the heathen, to fulfil
vows which they made when in sickness, and at other times of distress, throw themselves on
the ground, and roll over from side to side, and frequently much injure themselves.

Some swing on great hooks, which are passed through the tender parts of their backs. Sometimes
they swing for half an hour; sometimes an hour. The longer they can bear the torture of the
swinging, the more acceptable they suppose it will be to their goddess. It occasionally happens,
that the flesh in which the hooks are fastened gives way, in which case the poor creature is
dashed to the ground. When this occurs, the people hold him in the greatest abhorrence. They
judge him to be a great criminal, and suppose that he has met a violent death in consequence
of sins which he committed in a former birth.

Not long since, I attended one of these hook-swingings, not far from the city of Madura. It
took place on the morning of June 8th, 1848, just twenty-nine years after I first left America
for India. It should have taken place on the preceding afternoon; but one of the axle-trees
of the car, which was to support the machine on which the man was to be elevated in the air,
was broken. Nothing, of course, could be done until it was repaired. The carpenters and others
worked with great diligence until about eleven o'clock at night, when every thing was prepared
for the swinging. I expected immediately after this to witness the ceremony. It however did
not take place until the morning. While waiting for the man who was to be swung to make his
appearance, I took a pencil and made a drawing of the machine to which he was to be fastened.
The picture on the first page of the book will give you some idea of it.

Yon have, perhaps, often seen a well-sweep. The long beam in the picture is swung in the same
manner as is the well-sweep, with a single exception. In addition to its usual motion, it is
made to turn horizontally. The cuts which you may have seen, in two or three of my little books,
differ much from the above; of course different machines are used at different times. There
are stationary swingings, as well as swingings of the kind to which I just alluded.

Between six and seven o'clock in the morning, the man who was to be swung made his appearance
for a few moments, and then disappeared. The hooks by which he was to be swung, as well as
the iron rods with which a number of devotees were immediately to pierce their sides, were
carried through the streets, and held up that they might be seen by the people. Soon afterwards
the man again appeared with the hooks in his back, and went up to the end of the beam to which
he was to be fastened. This, of course, was lowered. Notwithstanding the dense multitudes of
people, I made my way to the same spot, determined to be satisfied whether or not there was
any deception in the application of the hooks. There was no deception. They passed through
the skin, on the sides of the backbone. To these hooks were attached yellow ropes, by which
he was fastened to the beam, as you will perceive in the picture. This being done, the men,
five or six in number, who had hold of the ropes fastened to the end of the beam which you
see resting on the ground, and which was then, of course, high in the air, drew him up until
the beam lay horizontally. Then, after making him perform one circular motion around the car,
they elevated him, as you see in the picture. When thus elevated, it was thought that he was
forty feet from the ground. All being ready, the people seized the ropes which you see in front
of the car, and began to draw it. Mr. Chandler and myself accompanied it through the streets,
until it came to the place from which it set out. The distance of ground passed over was at
least half a mile, and the time in which the journey was accomplished exceeded an hour. Of
course he was swinging more than an hour. As the car passed through the streets, the people
threw plantains from the tops of the houses to the crowds below.

The man who was swung was adorned with flowers and other ornaments. He had a tinselled turban
on his head. His body was rubbed over with a yellow paste, made, most probably, from the sandal-wood.
Around his ankles were rings, hung with little bells, which he made to tinkle, as he was swinging,
by striking his legs together. He wore a dark or black pair of pantaloons, which came a little
below the knees, and which had a border of gold around them. He held a handkerchief in one
hand, and a knife somewhat resembling a dagger, in the other. These he kept in constant motion,
by moving his arms. On one occasion, a bunch of plantains was tied to one of the long ropes
which you see hanging down by the side of the swinger. These he drew up, and afterwards scattered
over the people on a house opposite to him. 

After following the car for a quarter of a mile or more, we went before it, and there witnessed
another appalling sight. There were five or six men, who had the rods of iron which I just
mentioned passed through the skin of their sides. They were dancing along, and, as they danced,
they made these rods go backward and forward through the skin.

After the car had reached the place from which it set out, the end of the beam from which the
man was swinging was then lowered and he was untied. Again I looked very carefully at the hooks
in the back. The people say that no blood is shed by their introduction, and consider this
to be a miracle. The falsity of this assertion was shown by the blood which I saw on the side
of one of the wounds.

I have been long in this country, and consequently have become so familiarized with heathenism,
that my feelings, though deeply wounded at this sight, were not so keenly affected as were
those of my new associate, Mr. Chandler. He has been on heathen ground but a short time. When
they tied the man to the beam, he was unnerved and wellnigh overcome; and he told me, that
during all the time he was following the car, he felt like shedding tears.

While following the car, the young men of America came into my mind. They refuse to come, said
I, to help these miserable creatures. O, they will not come--they will not come. I thought,
that if many of the dear children of that land--children to whom I lately preached, as well
as others, could witness this poor creature swinging from the end of a long beam, far above
the tops of the trees, and that, too, by hooks passing through the tender parts of his back,
they would say, we will, by and by, become missionaries, and, by the help of God, proclaim
to the heathen that there is a Saviour.

On the evening of the day on which the swinging takes place, another act of great cruelty is
practised. Devotees throw themselves from, the top of a high wall, or a scaffold of twenty
or thirty feet in height, upon a bed of iron spikes, or on bags of straw with knives in them.
Many are often mangled and torn. Others are quickly killed.

At night, many of the devotees sit down in the open air, and pierce the skin of their foreheads,
by inserting a small rod of iron. To this is suspended a lamp, which is kept burning till daylight.

Sometimes bundles of thorns are collected before the temple, among which the devotees roll
themselves without any covering. These thorns are then set on fire, when they briskly dance
over the flames.

Other devotees swing before a slow fire; some stand between two fires, as you see in this picture.

Some have their breasts, arms, and other parts stuck entirely full of pins, about the thickness
of small nails, or packing needles.

Another very cruel torture is practised. Some of the devotees make a vow. With one hand they
cover their under lip with wet earth or mud. On this, with the other hand, they place some
small grains, usually of mustard-seed They then stretch themselves flat on their backs, exposed
to the dews of night, and the blazing and scorching sun by day. Their vow is, that from this
position they will not stir, that they will not move nor turn, nor eat nor drink, till the
seeds planted on their lips begin to sprout. This usually takes place on the third or fourth
day. After this they arise, and then think that they are very holy.

There is a class of devotees in this country called Yogis, whose object it is to root out every
human feeling. Some live in holes and caves. Some drag around a heavy chain attached to them.
Some make the circuit of an empire, creeping on their hands and knees. Some roll their bodies
from the shores of the Indus to the Ganges.

The Rev. Mr. Heyer, in one of his letters from India, says, that an Indian devotee has spent
more than nine years on a journey from Benares to Cape Comorin, that is, from the 27th to the
7th degree of north latitude. The whole journey is made by rolling on the bare ground, from
side to side. When he comes to a river, of course he cannot roll over it. He therefore fords
it, or passes over it in a boat, and then rolls on the banks of the river just as far as the
river is wide. By doing this, he supposes that his determination to roll all the way is fully
carried out.

Some devotees hold up one or both arms, until the muscles become rigid, and their limbs become
shrivelled into stumps. In the above cut, you have a representation of a man with one of these
shrivelled arms. See how long his finger-nails have grown. One has run through his hand and
back through his arm. Some stretch themselves on beds of iron spikes. Some wear great square
irons on their necks. I have seen not only a man, but a woman, with these great square irons
around their necks, each nearly two feet in length and two feet in breadth. These they put
on for the purpose of fulfilling some vow which they have made. For instance, if a mother has
a very sick little boy, she will say, "Now, Swammie, if you will cure my little boy, I will
have a square iron put on my neck, and wear it all my life." After this vow is made, if the
little boy gets well, the mother thinks that her Swammie has cured him, and to fulfil her engagement
she will have one of these irons put on her neck.

Other devotees throw themselves from the tops of precipices, and are dashed to pieces; some
bury themselves alive in holes, which their own relatives have dug; some bind themselves with
ropes or chains to trees, until they die; some keep gazing so long and so constantly at the
heavens, that the muscles of their neck become contracted, and no aliment but liquids can pass
into the stomach.

But I will not continue this subject. You perceive, my dear children, what a wretched religion
that must be which encourages its followers to perform such acts. And how vain are all these
acts--how utterly destitute are they of any merit. Those who practise them are not made better
by them, and they are just as far from the kingdom of heaven after having performed them, as
they were before. The Christian religion encourages no such things. It tells us to perform
no pilgrimages to holy places, to inflict no self-tortures. But it has its requirements, and
these are very simple, and may easily be performed by all who are willing to do their duty.
These requirements are, repentance, forsaking sin, faith in Christ, and a supreme devotedness
to his service. Have you, my dear children, attended to these requirements? If not, you are
in a much worse condition than these poor heathen of whom you have been reading. They are not
as guilty before God as you are. They know not their Master's will. Still, they must perish,
unless the Gospel is sent to them. But though they perish, their punishment will be lighter
than the punishment of those who refuse to love and obey the Saviour. That servant who knows
his Lord's will, and prepares not himself, neither does according to his will, shall be beaten
with many stripes. But he that knows not, and does commit things worthy of stripes, shall be
beaten with few stripes. Should it be your sad lot to perish at last, it would be far better
for you to go down to hell enveloped in all the darkness of a heathen land, than to go down
to hell from a land of such gospel light and privileges as you enjoy.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE SUTTEE, OR BURNING OF WIDOWS.

My dear children--From what I have already told you, you know that the Hindoos are a cruel
people. But I have not told you of the extent to which they carry their cruelty. Perhaps it
is shown to the highest degree in their practice of the suttee, or burning of widows. The British
have abolished this rite throughout their dominions in India. They have also made great exertions
to have it abolished in the territories of the native princes, but I am sorry to say, that
in some of these territories it is still practised. Within the last three years, twenty-three
of the princes just alluded to, have issued orders for its abolishment throughout their dominions.
These orders have probably been issued solely in consequence of their fear of the British power,
for it is a practice which is riveted in the affections of the people. This power they know
that it will be dangerous to resist.

