The one remarkable feature of my journey to Troy was the railroad from Schenectady to Albany,
the first ever laid in this country. The manner of ascending a high hill going out of the city
would now strike engineers as stupid to the last degree. The passenger cars were pulled up
by a train, loaded with stones, descending the hill. The more rational way of tunneling through
the hill or going around it had not yet dawned on our Dutch ancestors. At every step of my
journey to Troy I felt that I was treading on my pride, and thus in a hopeless frame of mind
I began my boarding-school career. I had already studied everything that was taught there except
French, music, and dancing, so I devoted myself to these accomplishments. As I had a good voice
I enjoyed singing, with a guitar accompaniment, and, having a good ear for time, I appreciated
the harmony in music and motion and took great delight in dancing. The large house, the society
of so many girls, the walks about the city, the novelty of everything made the new life more
enjoyable than I had anticipated. To be sure I missed the boys, with whom I had grown up, played
with for years, and later measured my intellectual powers with, but, as they became a novelty,
there was new zest in occasionally seeing them. After I had been there a short time, I heard
a call one day: "Heads out!" I ran with the rest and exclaimed, "What is it?" expecting to
see a giraffe or some other wonder from Barnum's Museum. "Why, don't you see those boys?" said
one. "Oh," I replied, "is that all? I have seen boys all my life." When visiting family friends
in the city, we were in the way of making the acquaintance of their sons, and as all social
relations were strictly forbidden, there was a new interest in seeing them. As they were not
allowed to call upon us or write notes, unless they were brothers or cousins, we had, in time,
a large number of kinsmen.

There was an intense interest to me now in writing notes, receiving calls, and joining the
young men in the streets for a walk, such as I had never known when in constant association
with them at school and in our daily amusements. Shut up with girls, most of them older than
myself, I heard many subjects discussed of which I had never thought before, and in a manner
it were better I had never heard. The healthful restraint always existing between boys and
girls in conversation is apt to be relaxed with either sex alone. In all my intimate association
with boys up to that period, I cannot recall one word or act for criticism, but I cannot say
the same of the girls during the three years I passed at the seminary in Troy. My own experience
proves to me that it is a grave mistake to send boys and girls to separate institutions of
learning, especially at the most impressible age. The stimulus of sex promotes alike a healthy
condition of the intellectual and the moral faculties and gives to both a development they
never can acquire alone.

Mrs. Willard, having spent several months in Europe, did not return until I had been at the
seminary some time. I well remember her arrival, and the joy with which she was greeted by
the teachers and pupils who had known her before. She was a splendid-looking woman, then in
her prime, and fully realized my idea of a queen. I doubt whether any royal personage in the
Old World could have received her worshipers with more grace and dignity than did this far-famed
daughter of the Republic. She was one of the remarkable women of that period, and did a great
educational work for her sex. She gave free scholarships to a large number of promising girls,
fitting them for teachers, with a proviso that, when the opportunity arose, they should, in
turn, educate others.

I shall never forget one incident that occasioned me much unhappiness. I had written a very
amusing composition, describing my room. A friend came in to see me just as I had finished
it, and, as she asked me to read it to her, I did so. She enjoyed it very much and proposed
an exchange. She said the rooms were all so nearly alike that, with a little alteration, she
could use it. Being very susceptible to flattery, her praise of my production won a ready assent;
but when I read her platitudes I was sorry I had changed, and still more so in the denouement.

Those selected to prepare compositions read them before the whole school. My friend's was received
with great laughter and applause. The one I read not only fell flat, but nearly prostrated
me also. As soon as I had finished, one of the young ladies left the room and, returning in
a few moments with her composition book, laid it before the teacher who presided that day,
showing her the same composition I had just read. I was called up at once to explain, but was
so amazed and confounded that I could not speak, and I looked the personification of guilt.
I saw at a glance the contemptible position I occupied and felt as if the last day had come,
that I stood before the judgment seat and had heard the awful sentence pronounced, "Depart
ye wicked into everlasting punishment." How I escaped from that scene to my own room I do not
know. I was too wretched for tears. I sat alone for a long time when a gentle tap announced
my betrayer. She put her arms around me affectionately and kissed me again and again.

"Oh!" she said, "you are a hero. You went through that trying ordeal like a soldier. I was
so afraid, when you were pressed with questions, that the whole truth would come out and I
be forced to stand in your place. I am not so brave as you; I could not endure it. Now that
you are through it and know how bitter a trial it is, promise that you will save me from the
same experience. You are so good and noble I know you will not betray me."

In this supreme moment of misery and disgrace, her loving words and warm embrace were like
balm to my bruised soul and I readily promised all she asked. The girl had penetrated the weak
point in my character. I loved flattery. Through that means she got my composition in the first
place, pledged me to silence in the second place, and so confused my moral perceptions that
I really thought it praiseworthy to shelter her from what I had suffered. However, without
betrayal on my part, the trick came to light through the very means she took to make concealment
sure. After compositions were read they were handed over to a certain teacher for criticism.
Miss ---- had copied mine, and returned to me the original. I had not copied hers, so the two
were in the same handwriting--one with my name outside and one with Miss ----'s.

As I stood well in school, both for scholarship and behavior, my sudden fall from grace occasioned
no end of discussion. So, as soon as the teacher discovered the two compositions in Miss ----'s
writing, she came to me to inquire how I got one of Miss ----'s compositions. She said, "Where
is yours that you wrote for that day?"

Taking it from my portfolio, I replied, "Here it is."

She then asked, "Did you copy it from her book?"

I replied, "No; I wrote it myself."

"Then why did you not read your own?"

"We agreed to change," said I.

"Did you know that Miss ---- had copied that from the book of another young lady?"

"No, not until I was accused of doing it myself before the whole school."

"Why did you not defend yourself on the spot?"

"I could not speak, neither did I know what to say."

"Why have you allowed yourself to remain in such a false position for a whole week?"

"I do not know."

"Suppose I had not found this out, did you intend to keep silent?"

"Yes," I replied.

"Did Miss ---- ask you to do so?"

"Yes."

