Sir William further bound his favorites to him by granting them great tracts of the best land.
"Some take up 2,000 acres, some 3,000, and others 10,000, and many more have taken up 30,000."
They cultivated only a fraction or perhaps not any of these great tracts, merely putting up
"a hog house to save the lapse." So when newcomers looked around for land, they were faced
with the alternative of becoming tenants or of taking up "remote barren lands" on the frontiers.

The poor planters complained bitterly of the great sums voted by the Assembly for their own
salaries, those of certain officers, and for various other expenses. In 1675 the Speaker of
the House received 15,000 pounds of tobacco, the clerk 15,000. The total cost of this session
was 539,390 pounds of tobacco, that of the session of February, 1676, 616,652 pounds. When
the salary of collectors was added the total was 1,601,046 pounds, or perhaps an average of
150 pounds for every family.

The people were convinced that the heavy taxes served no other purpose than to enrich Berkeley's
favorites. "Consider their sudden advancement," said Bacon. And it was obvious that Berkeley
himself had taken care to get the largest share of the plunder. At the outbreak of Bacon's
Rebellion he owned the plantation at Green Spring, five houses in Jamestown, four hundred cattle,
several hundred sheep, sixty horses, "near £1,000 worth of wheat, barley, oates, and corn,"
and some valuable plate.

Part of this fortune came to him through a monopoly of the beaver trade with the Indians. He
seems to have cashed in on this by licensing the traders on the frontier and taking a large
part of their profits. Though he had trouble in collecting his dues, he received each year
several hundred pounds of beaver fur. His obedient Assembly added to his wealth by voting him
money from time to time. This they excused to the indigent tax payers as due him for what he
had laid out in "beneficial designs." But the poor planter, in his rags, leaning on his hoe
in his little tobacco patch, secretly cursed as Lady Berkeley drove past in her coach.

The people complained bitterly that they had been cheated of the right to govern themselves.
That no power whatsoever should tax them without their own consent was the basic principle
of English liberty. Yet it was but a mockery to contend that men who had sold themselves to
the governor and whom they were given no opportunity to oust from office, were their true representatives
in voting away their money.

In local government Sir William was supreme. He it was who appointed the sheriffs and the justices
of the peace who, as members of the county courts, had judicial, legislative, and executive
powers. The county tax was usually larger than that laid by the Assembly, for it had to cover
the salaries of the Burgesses, the cost of building courthouses, prisons, and bridges, and
of killing wolves, etc. When the justices in levying taxes retired to a private room and locked
the door, there was grave suspicion of fraud. Is it not obvious, men said, that they do not
tell us what the taxes are for, because part of the money they put in their own pockets?

Much of the money wrung from the taxpayers was squandered upon foolish projects. In 1662, at
the advice of the King, the Assembly voted to build thirty-two brick houses at Jamestown, and
levied thirty pounds of tobacco per poll to pay for them. Since the mere erection of houses
when there was no need for them could not make a town, this experiment was an utter failure.
The houses were never "habitable, but fell down before the finishing of them."

Equally futile was the attempt to turn the people from raising tobacco to the production of
manufactured goods. After the expenditure of large sums on industrial plants, "for want of
care the said houses were never finished ... and the ... manufactury wholly in a short time
neglected and no good effected."

Berkeley denied the charges of favoritism and misgovernment. He called on God to witness that
he knew of nothing in which he had not distributed equal justice to all men. His friends rallied
to his support. "The whole are sensible of his great integrity, constant care, and diligence,"
the Council wrote to the Lords of Trade. Bacon had loaded him with all the base calumnies and
scandals, and with as much malice and ingratitude as all the black devils in hell could tempt
him to. It was hard indeed that so good a governor should have his honor and reputation "ravished
away" in his old age.

Though we may discount the testimony of those who had been partners with Berkeley in his misgovernment,
it is clear that he was in no way responsible for the chief cause of poverty in the colony--the
Navigation Acts. Prior to 1660 the Virginians carried on an extensive trade with Holland, selling
their tobacco to Dutch merchants and taking Dutch manufactured goods in exchange. When the
tobacco reached Holland it was "manufactured" and then distributed to other countries. This
trade brought prosperity to the colony, for the Dutch paid well for the tobacco and sold their
goods cheaply. But the Navigation Acts required that tobacco exported from the colonies must
be shipped to England or to her dominions, and that manufactured goods imported must come from
England.

The result was disastrous. England was not able by herself to consume the entire crop. Nor
could the merchants re-export it to the continent because they did not have access to the markets.
So the tobacco piled up in the English warehouses, while the price sank lower and lower. The
Dutch had given three pence a pound for tobacco, but now the crop was sold at half a penny
a pound. Formerly the poor planter who raised a thousand pounds of tobacco each year could
count on an income of £12, which was ample for his needs. After the passage of the Navigation
Acts he was fortunate if he made forty-five shillings. This was so little that Secretary Ludwell
attributed it to nothing but the mercy of God that he had "not fallen into mutiny and confusion."
In 1662 Berkeley and others complained that the price of tobacco was so low that it would not
bear the charge of freight and customs, give encouragement to the merchants, and subsistence
to the planters.

As though this were not enough, a series of disasters struck the colony bringing ruin and suffering
in their wake. In 1667, when England and Holland were at war, a fleet of five Dutch warships
entered Chesapeake Bay and captured the Elizabeth, an English frigate of forty-six guns. They
then turned on the tobacco fleet and captured twenty vessels. Six years later nine Dutch warships
came in and engaged the English in a desperate battle off Lynnhaven Bay while the tobacco ships
scurried for shallow water. Unfortunately nine or ten ran aground and were taken.

Even nature seemed bent on completing the ruin of the planters. "This poor country ... is now
reduced to a very miserable condition by a continual course of misfortune," wrote Thomas Ludwell
in 1667. "In April ... we had a most prodigious storm of hail, many of them as big as turkey
eggs, which destroyed most of our young mast and cattle. On the fifth of June following came
the Dutch upon us.... They were not gone before it fell to raining and continued for forty
days together.... But on the 27th of August followed the most dreadful hurricane that ever
the colony groaned under.... The nearest computation is at least 10,000 houses blown down,
all the Indian grain laid flat upon the ground, all the tobacco in the fields torn to pieces."

It was soon after the Restoration that the people of Virginia learned that "all the lands and
water lying between Potomac and Rappahannock, together with all the royalties belonging thereto,"
had been granted to Lord Hopton and several other noblemen. In alarm they appealed "for relief"
to the King, and were greatly relieved when the grant was recalled. And though another patent
was issued, it contained reservations to protect "the rights, privileges, and properties of
the inhabitants." But their joy was tempered by a provision giving the patentees the quit rents
with eleven years arrears. This would be more than the entire value of many men's estates,
it was complained.

So they employed agents to plead their cause in London. In the meanwhile the patent had been
assigned to the Earl of St. Albans, Lord John Berkeley, Sir William Moreton, and John Trethney.
When the agents proposed that they surrender their rights in return for a large sum of money
to be raised by taxing the people of the colony, most of them agreed. But at this point the
King issued a patent to the Earl of Arlington and Lord Culpeper, "which not only included the
lands formerly granted ... but all the rest of the colony." The Virginians were in despair.
The two lords were to have many powers rightly belonging to the government. They were to pocket
all escheats, quit rents, and duties belonging to the Crown; they had the power to create new
counties and parishes, to issue patents for land; they could appoint sheriffs, surveyors, and
other officers, and induct ministers. The Assembly complained that this nullified all previous
charters and promises and made the people subjects to their fellow subjects.

So negotiations had to begin again. In the end Arlington and Culpeper agreed to give up their
patent in return for a new one for the Northern Neck assuring them the quit rents and escheated
property. Having gained this concession the agents then pleaded for a charter for the colony
guaranteeing the liberties of the colonists. In it there were to be promises that they should
continue to have their immediate dependence on the Crown, and that no tax should be laid upon
them but by the consent of the Assembly. The King in Council assented to the charter, and twice
it reached the Great Seal. But there it was held up. In the meanwhile news came of Bacon's
Rebellion, and the King reversed his order. Later he did grant letters patent, but they contained
little more than the promise that the colony should be directly dependent on the Crown.

This whole affair caused universal resentment in the colony, and the expense of the negotiations
in England made the people "desperately uneasy." Berkeley reported that "the two great taxes
of sixty pounds per poll to buy in the Northern patent made those that thought they were not
concerned in it ripe for mutiny." The agents, too, warned that the Arlington and Culpeper grant
might cause the common people to rise in arms and perhaps bring about "the utter dispersion"
of the planters.

With the staple crop of the colony a drug on the market because of the Navigation Acts, with
tax piled on tax to buy back the liberties of the people from favorites of the King, with self-government
made a mockery by the corrupting of the Burgesses, with the small farmers in rags, the people
were ready to rise in arms at the least excuse. Before young Nathaniel Bacon set foot on Virginia
soil Berkeley and his henchmen were trembling in their boots. The governor thought that if
an opportunity offered itself the planters might go over to the Dutch "in hopes of bettering
their condition by sharing the plunder of the country with them."

Into this mass of dynamite an Indian war threw a torch. The resulting explosion was Bacon's
Rebellion.

In 1674 two mutinies had failed, it was said because the people, after assembling in arms,
could not find a leader. Two years later, when again angry men gathered, they found their leader
in Bacon. This young man was the son of Thomas Bacon, a wealthy English squire. At an early
age he entered St. Catherine's Hall, Cambridge, as a fellow-commoner. There he seems to have
idled away his time, and when he "broke into some extravagances" his father withdrew him. This
apparent misfortune was turned to good effect when his father secured for him as tutor the
great naturalist, John Ray. Ray found Nathaniel a lad of "very good parts and a quick wit,"
but "impatient of labor." When he was sixteen he accompanied Ray on a tour of Europe. On his
return he re-entered Cambridge and later studied at Gray's Inn.

In 1670 he married Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Edward Duke. Her father had positively forbidden
the match, and when she disobeyed him cut her off without one groat. But Thomas Bacon, and
after Sir Edward's death, her brother John, made ample provision for the young couple. All
would have been well had not Nathaniel been tricked by two sharpers in a deal with a guileless
youth named Jason, and left with a long and tedious lawsuit.

It was at this juncture that he decided to seek his fortune in Virginia. There he might hope
for quick advancement, because his cousin, also named Nathaniel Bacon, had attained a position
of influence, and because he was related to Lady Berkeley, wife of the governor. Upon the advice
of his grandmother, Lady Brooke, he left his wife behind until he had prepared a place for
her "answerable to her quality." Upon his arrival in Virginia he was welcomed by Sir William,
and it was at his advice "or at least friendly approbation" that he purchased a plantation
at Curles Neck, on the James, forty miles above Jamestown, and a tract of land at the site
of Richmond, on what was then the frontier. "When first I designed Virginia my chiefest aims
were a further inquiry into those western parts in order to which I chose to seat myself so
remote," he said, "I having always been delighted in solitude."

Bacon had been in Virginia but a few months when the governor appointed him to the Council
of State. This seemed a great honor indeed for a young man of twenty-eight. But Berkeley explained:
"Gentlemen of your quality come very rarely into this country, and therefore when they do come
are used by me with all respect." Bacon was greatly surprised. "As to anything of public employment
in the country, my tender age and manner of living, not free from follies and youthful excesses,
forbad me to hope or expect any such thing.... This sudden change were enough to stagger a
philosopher of more settled temper than I am."

But it was not possible for the dictatorial governor and the hotheaded youth to get along together.
Berkeley was accustomed to having obedience in return for favors. Bacon was not the man to
knuckle under. It was prophetic of what was to follow that the first difference grew out of
relations with the allied Indians. When poor immigrants took up holdings on the frontier rather
than become tenants to wealthy men in the east, they encroached on the reservations of those
Indian tribes which were under the protection of the government. They even laid out farms within
the very limits of their villages. When the Indians, driven by hunger, killed any of their
cattle or hogs, the frontiersmen "beat and abused them."

Apparently it was a dispute with the Indians which caused the first temporary breach between
Bacon and Berkeley. We do not know just what happened, but Bacon in a letter to the Governor
speaks of his "unbecoming deportment in your Honor's presence," and said he was sorry for it.
Sir William's reply makes it probable that Bacon had suffered some losses from neighboring
Indians, and had retaliated. "This sudden business of the Indians," Berkeley said, had raised
in him "high distemper." And he asked Bacon to consider that relations between the whites and
the Indians was his responsibility, so that it was important that he be advised of all dealings
with them. Should there be serious trouble he would be criticised both in England and Virginia.

Bacon must have resented Berkeley's monopoly of the fur trade. He tells us that a desire to
have a share in this lucrative business had been one of his motives for settling on the frontier.
But he made a virtue of necessity and, in partnership with his neighbor, William Byrd I, applied
to the governor for a license. They would pay him 800 pounds of beaver fur for the first year
and 600 pounds a year thereafter. This looked good to Sir William. "I am in no such plentiful
condition that I should refuse a good offer," he replied, "and therefore am likely to accept
your and my cousin Byrd's offer."

With the opening months of 1676 there were ominous rumblings of revolt. From New England came
word that the English there were engaged in a deadly war with the Indians, which Berkeley thought
was not merely a local affair, "but a general combination of all from New England thither."
The so-called allied tribes on the Virginia frontiers were sullen and resentful. "They also
would be rid of us if they could," said Berkeley. Their efforts to wipe out the English in
previous wars had failed only because their bows and arrows were no match for the muskets of
the English. Now that they had firearms might not their efforts be more successful?

It was the Marylanders who had given firearms to the Susquehannocks, a fierce tribe living
on their northern border. This they did so that they could protect them from the Senecas, one
of the tribes of the Iroquois confederation. But in 1674, when the Marylanders made a separate
treaty with the Senecas, the latter fell on the Susquehannocks, defeated them in battle, and
swept them out of their fortified villages. Fleeing through Maryland the remnant of the tribe
established themselves on the north bank of the Potomac directly across from the site of Mount
Vernon.

Here they were safe from their enemies, but not from hunger. They might catch fish from the
river, but they lacked space for corn fields, and the plantations of the English spread out
over what had once been hunting grounds. It was inevitable that they would seek food where
they could find it, and having robbed nearby farms they could not resist the temptation to
commit a few murders. Associated with them were the remnants of the Doegs who had been driven
out of Virginia a few years before because of the "execrable murders" they had committed.

In the summer of 1675 a party of Indians paddled across the Potomac, and after killing several
men, made good their escape back to Maryland. Shortly afterwards people returning from church
found a man covered with ghastly wounds lying across his threshold, who managed to gasp out,
"Doegs, Doegs." Immediately the alarm was sounded, and a party of thirty or more men assembled
on the south bank of the river opposite the Indian reservation under the command of Colonel
George Mason and Captain George Brent.

At dawn they crossed over to the Maryland side. Here they divided their forces, Mason leading
part in one direction through the woods and Brent the other in another. Brent came upon a cabin
full of Doegs. Their chief denied knowledge of the murders, but when he started to run Brent
shot him. At this the Indians in the cabin made a dash for safety in the face of a volley which
brought down ten of them.

In the meanwhile Mason, too, had come upon a cabin full of Indians, and had killed fourteen
of them. But when he found out that they were not Doegs but Susquehannocks, he shouted: "For
the Lord's sake shoot no more, these are our friends the Susquehannocks." But they now were
their friends no longer. They began a series of bloody raids in Stafford County on the Virginia
side of the river and Charles County in Maryland. Governor Calvert was quite right in complaining
to Berkeley of the invasion of his province by an armed force to turn friendly Indians into
mortal enemies.

But since it was now too late to restore peace, the Virginians and Marylanders agreed upon
a joint campaign to force the Susquehannocks to leave the region and give hostages for their
peaceful conduct. It was late in September when the Maryland troops, under Major Thomas Trueman,
arrived on the north bank of the Piscataway Creek, the site of Fort Washington. A few days
later a body of Virginians under Colonel John Washington, great-grandfather of George Washington,
and Colonel Isaac Allerton, landed from a fleet of sloops.

Across the creek, on a low bit of land, protected by patches of swamp, the Susquehannocks had
built a fort. Had it been no more than a round stockade, after the traditional Indian style,
it could have been taken with ease. But the Marylanders themselves had taught the Susquehannocks
the art of fortification. So they had laid out a large square, raised embankments on all four
sides, with an outer defence of palisades, and a ditch between. At each corner was a bastion,
from which an attacking force could be enfiladed. Lacking artillery to batter down these works
the three commanders decided to invest the fort and starve out the defenders.

In the meanwhile Major Trueman invited the "great men" to a parley. When five of them came
out, he charged them with recent murders in Maryland. The Indians placed the blame on prowling
bands of Senecas. This was an obvious lie, for Susquehannocks had been seen wearing the clothing
of some of the murdered whites, and raiding parties had come directly to the fort, their canoes
laden with beef. Seeing himself in imminent danger, one of the Indians produced a medal bearing
the image of Lord Baltimore, and a paper which he said was a pledge from a former governor
of Maryland to protect the tribe from harm. Despite this, and despite the fact that the "great
men" had come under a truce to discuss peace, Trueman ordered his men to knock them on the head.

When word of this outrage reached Governor Berkeley he was furious. Major Trueman was impeached
in Maryland, fined and sentenced to imprisonment, but this did not undo the wrong or prevent
the terrible consequences.

The Indians in the fort put up a desperate resistance. Weeks passed, and they still held out.
To every suggestion of parley they asked: "Where are our great men?" At last, when "brought
to great distress" through hunger, they broke through the encircling English with their wives
and children, and vanished into the forest. Making their way up the Maryland side of the river,
they crossed over to Virginia, and began a series of raids upon the frontier plantations on
the upper Rappahannock and Mattapony rivers.

Within a few days they had killed sixty persons. The fortunate ones were those who fell at
the first volley, for the miserable captives were subjected to tortures that would have baffled
the imagination of a Dante. "Some they roast alive, offering their flesh to such English prisoners
as they keep languishing by a lingering death, pulling their nails off, making holes and sticking
feathers in their flesh. Some they rip open and make run their guts round trees."

For the moment the old spirit which had made him so ardent a fighter in the English Civil War
and in the battles against Opechancanough flared anew in Governor Berkeley. Calling together
a force of horse and foot, he placed them under the command of Sir Henry Chicheley with orders
to pursue the murderers. But when all was ready and Chicheley was expecting the order to march
Berkeley changed his mind, withdrew his commission and disbanded his forces.

This sudden change has long puzzled historians. Berkeley himself had taken the lead in carrying
the war to the enemy following the massacre of 1644; why did he hang back now? It may have
been the offer of peace from the new chief of the Susquehannocks, which Sir William was willing
to accept but which the Indians themselves ignored. It may have been the fear that Chicheley's
men might not discriminate between friend and foe and by attacking some of the allied Indians
involve them in the war. He stated later that he would have preserved those Indians so that
they could be his "spies and intelligence to find out the more bloody enemies." Certainly in
this he was foreshadowing the policy followed by his successors for more than a century. But
it did not justify leaving the frontier open to attack, while the murders and torturing continued.

It is not necessary to accept the accusation of Bacon and his followers that Berkeley adopted
this policy so as not to interfere with the beaver trade. It might have been effective had
not the Pamunkeys, the Appomatox, and other nearby tribes been dissatisfied and resentful.
As it was, the governor was soon obliged to abandon it. "As soon as I had the least intelligence
that they were our treacherous enemies I have given out commissions to destroy them all," he
said. To Colonel Goodrich, when he was about to lead an expedition up the Rappahannock, he
wrote: "I believe all the Indians, our neighbors, are engaged with the Susquehannocks, therefore
I desire you to spare none ... for they are all our enemies."

Berkeley blamed Bacon and his men for the defection of the allied Indians. It was they, he
said, who had driven them out of their towns and forced them "to live remote in the woods."
It was only then, when they became desperate through hunger, that they joined in the raids
on the English. One can never be certain which side started hostilities. Probably both were
to blame. But Berkeley did not stop to consider that the fault was basically his own. Had he
not granted all the best lands in the east to his favorites, poor planters would not have had
to encroach on the Indian reservations, in which case the Indians might have remained peaceful,
and even fought side by side with the English against the Susquehannocks.

After recalling the expedition under Chicheley, Berkeley remained inactive until, in February,
he received word that the Indians had made new raids. Then he summoned the Assembly. Several
weeks passed before they convened, since it took time to reach the Burgesses who lived in the
distant counties, and for them to travel, perhaps by boat, down the Potomac or the Rappahannock,
and up the James to Jamestown. At last, on March 7, the session opened.

Berkeley had determined on a defensive war, and the Assembly obediently carried out his wishes.
So they declared war on all Indians who were known to have taken part in the murderous raids,
provided for the enlistment of friendly Indians, called out a force of 500 men, prohibited
trade in firearms with the savages, and ordered the erection of eight forts on the frontiers.

This policy might have been successful had Berkeley made the forts bases for expeditions against
the enemy. The Indians seem to have made their raids in small parties, and with rangers spying
upon them, forces could have rushed out from the nearest fort to intercept or pursue them.
In fact this seems to have been Berkeley's original plan. The spread of hostilities "puts us
on an absolute necessity not only of fortifying our frontiers more strongly, but of keeping
several considerable parties of both horse and foot still in motion to confront them wherever
they shall attack us," he wrote in a report to the English government late in March.

Berkeley stated that the forts served their purpose well. "In April and May we lost not one
man," he stated. But this Bacon and his men denied. Even when a garrison received word that
Indians were near, they were not permitted to pursue them until they had notified the governor,
who might be fifty or sixty miles away, and received his permission. The forts proved useless,
they said, for the Indians sneaked in between them and fell upon the outlying plantations,
burning, plundering, and killing. This it was easy to do in a country full of "thick woods,
swamps, and other covert." So, as houses went up in flames, as men, women, and children were
murdered, as miserable captives were led off to await torture, a cry arose for relief. What
is needed, people said, is some considerable force in motion to seek out the enemy and destroy
them.

So petition after petition came to Berkeley begging him to send them a leader. We have the
arms, they said, all we ask is permission to defend ourselves. But they met with peremptory
refusal. As one group stood before him, hat in hand, one of them spoke of themselves as his
honor's subjects. "Why you are a set of fools and loggerheads. You are the King's subjects,
and so am I," Berkeley blurted out. "A pox take you."

The frontier planters were in despair. Many deserted their homes and fled to the more settled
parts of the country. Some declared they would plant no more tobacco, since it would be taken
from them to pay for the useless forts. And they were deeply angered when it was reported to
them that Berkeley had said that if they had no tobacco, "they had cows and feather beds sufficient
to discharge their levies." At last, "the cries of their women and children growing grievous
and intolerable to them," and hearing that large bodies of Indians were encamped on the upper
James ready to descend on them, the people of Charles City County assembled in arms near Merchants
Hope.

They found their leader in Nathaniel Bacon. Bacon, despite his youth, was looked up to as one
of the Council, and a member of the English gentry. Not only did he sympathize with the people
in their fear and hatred of the Indians, but he had a personal grievance, since they had plundered
his outer plantation and killed his overseer. So when several of his neighbors urged him to
cross the James to visit the men in arms, he readily consented.

When they saw the slender, black-haired youth, they set up a great cry: "A Bacon! A Bacon!
A Bacon!" This was too much for him to resist. It is stated by one of the old chroniclers that
he had "a most imperious and dangerous hidden pride of heart." The leadership thus thrust upon
him must have pleased him. He was now no longer the erratic youth who had been withdrawn from
Cambridge, had caused his father great trouble and anxiety, and had been duped by sharpers.
He was the leader of men. But there can be no doubt that he yielded to the pleas of his friends
and neighbors in part at least because of his loathing of the Indians and his horror at their
cruelty. He yielded also because his spirit revolted at Berkeley's system of government by
corruption, because he sympathized with the people in their outcry against the killing burdens
placed on them, and because he hoped to redress their grievances. His rough followers listened
with approval as he denounced the government as "negligent and wicked, treacherous and incapable,
the laws unjust and oppressive," and declared that reform was absolutely necessary. So he listed
their names on a huge round-robin, and "enjoined them by an oath to stick fast together and
to him." As word spread throughout the colony that at last the people had a champion, almost
overnight he became the popular hero, and "the only patron of the country and the preserver
of their lives and fortunes."

