 "To Pompey have been intrusted wars without number, wars most dangerous
to the State, wars by sea and wars by land, wars extraordinary in their nature. If there be
a man who regrets that this has been done, that man must regret the victories which Rome has
won." But his abuse of Clodius is infinitely stronger than his praise of Pompey. For the passages
in which he alluded to the sister of Clodius I must refer the reader to the speech itself.
It is impossible here to translate them or to describe them. And these words were spoken before
the College of Priests, of whom nineteen were Consulares! And they were prepared with such
care that Cicero specially boasted of them to Atticus, and declares that they should be put
into the hands of all young orators. Montesquieu says that the Roman legislators, in establishing
their religion, had no view of using it for the improvement of manners or of morals.[7] The
nature of their rites and ceremonies gives us evidence enough that it was so. If further testimony
were wanting, it might be found in this address, Ad Pontifices. Cicero himself was a man of
singularly clean life as a Roman nobleman, but, in abusing his enemy, he was restrained by
no sense of what we consider the decency of language.

He argues the question as to his house very well, as he did all questions. He tells the priests
that the whole joy of his restoration must depend on their decision. Citizens who had hitherto
been made subject to such penalties had been malefactors; whereas, it was acknowledged of him
that he had been a benefactor to the city. Clodius had set up on the spot, not a statue of
Liberty, but, as was well known to all men, the figure of a Greek prostitute. The priests had
not been consulted. The people had not ratified the proposed consecration. Of the necessity
of such authority he gives various examples. "And this has been done," he says, "by an impure
and impious enemy of all religions--by this man among women, and woman among men--who has gone
through the ceremony so hurriedly, so violently, that his mind and his tongue and his voice
have been equally inconsistent with each other." "My fortune," he says, as he ends his speech,
"all moderate as it is, will suffice for me. The memory of my name will be a patrimony sufficient
for my children;" but if his house be so taken from him, so stolen, so falsely dedicated to
religion, he cannot live without disgrace. Of course he got back his house; and with his house
about £16,000 for its re-erection, and £4000 for the damage done to the Tusculan villa with
£2000 for the Formian villa. With these sums he was not contented; and indeed they could hardly
have represented fairly the immense injury done to him.

[Sidenote: B.C. 56, ætat. 51.]

So ended the work of the year of his return. From the following year, besides the speeches,
we have twenty-six letters of which nine were written to Lentulus, the late Consul, who had
now gone to Cilicia as Proconsul. Lentulus had befriended him, and he found it necessary to
show his gratitude by a continued correspondence, and by a close attendance to the interests
of the absent officer. These letters are full of details of Roman politics, too intricate for
such a work as this--perhaps I might almost say too uninteresting, as they refer specially
to Lentulus himself. In one of them he tells his friend that he has at last been able to secure
the friendship of Pompey for him. It was, after all, but a show of friendship. He has supped
with Pompey, and says that when he talks to Pompey everything seems to go well: no one can
be more gracious than Pompey. But when he sees the friends by whom Pompey is surrounded he
knows, as all others know, that the affair is in truth going just as he would not have it.[8]
We feel as we read these letters, in which Pompey's name is continually before us, how much
Pompey prevailed by his personal appearance, by his power of saying gracious things, and then
again by his power of holding his tongue. "You know the slowness of the man," he says to Lentulus,
"and his silence."[9] A slow, cautious, hypocritical man, who knew well how to use the allurements
of personal manners! These letters to Lentulus are full of flattery.

There are five letters to his brother Quintus, dealing with the politics of the time, especially
with the then King of Egypt, who was to be, or was not to be, restored. From all these things,
however, I endeavor to abstain as much as possible, as matters not peculiarly affecting the
character of Cicero. He gives his brother an account of the doings in the Senate, which is
interesting as showing us how that august assembly conducted itself. While Pompey was speaking
with much dignity, Clodius and his supporters in vain struggled with shouts and cries to put
him down. At noon Pompey sat down, and Clodius got possession of the rostra, and in the middle
of a violent tumult remained on his feet for two hours. Then, on Pompey's side, the "optimates"
sang indecent songs --"versus obscenissimi"--in reference to Clodius and his sister Clodia.
Clodius, rising in his anger, demanded, "Who had brought the famine?" "Pompey," shouted the
Clodians. "Who wanted to go to Egypt?" demanded Clodius. "Pompey," again shouted his followers.
After that, at three o'clock, at a given signal, they began to spit upon their opponents. Then
there was a fight, in which each party tried to drive the others out. The "optimates" were
getting the best of it, when Cicero thought it as well to run off lest he should be hurt in
the tumult.[10] What hope could there be for an oligarchy when such things occurred in the
Senate? Cicero in this letter speaks complacently of resisting force by force in the city.
Even Cato, the law-abiding, precise Cato, thought it necessary to fall into the fashion and
go about Rome with an armed following. He bought a company of gladiators and circus-men; but
was obliged to sell them, as Cicero tells his brother with glee, because he could not afford
to feed them.[11]

There are seven letters also to Atticus--always more interesting than any of the others. There
is in these the most perfect good-feeling, so that we may know that the complaints made by
him in his exile had had no effect of estranging his friend; and we learn from them his real,
innermost thoughts, as they are not given even to his brother--as thoughts have surely seldom
been confided by one man of action to another. Atticus had complained that he had not been
allowed to see a certain letter which Cicero had written to Cæsar. This he had called a [Greek:
palinôdia], or recantation, and it had been addressed to Cæsar with the view of professing
a withdrawal to some extent of his opposition to the Triumvirate. It had been of sufficient
moment to be talked about. Atticus had heard of it, and had complained that it had not been
sent to him. Cicero puts forward his excuses, and then bursts out with the real truth:

"Why should I nibble round the unpalatable morsel which has to be swallowed?" The recantation
had seemed to himself to be almost base, and he had been ashamed of it. "But," says he, "farewell
to all true, upright, honest policy. You could hardly believe what treachery there is in those
who ought to be our leading men, and who would be so if there was any truth in them."[12] He
does not rely upon those who, if they were true to their party, would enable the party to stand
firmly even against Cæsar. Therefore it becomes necessary for him to truckle to Cæsar, not
for himself but for his party. Unsupported he cannot stand in open hostility to Cæsar. He truckles.
He writes to Cæsar, singing Cæsar's praises. It is for the party rather than for himself, but
yet he is ashamed of it.

There is a letter to Lucceius, an historian of the day then much thought of, of whom however
our later world has heard nothing. Lucceius is writing chronicles of the time, and Cicero boldly
demands to be praised. "Ut ornes mea postulem"[13]--"I ask you to praise me." But he becomes
much bolder than that. "Again and again I beseech you, without any beating about the bush,
to speak more highly of me than you perhaps think that I deserve, even though in doing so you
abandon all the laws of history." Then he uses beautiful flattery to his correspondent. Alexander
had wished to be painted only by Apelles. He desires to be praised by none but Lucceius. Lucceius,
we are told, did as he was asked.

[Sidenote: B.C. 56, ætat. 51.]

I will return to the speeches of the period to which this chapter is devoted, taking that first
which he made to the Senate as to the report of the soothsayers respecting certain prodigies.
Readers familiar with Livy will remember how frequently, in time of disaster, the anger of
Heaven was supposed to have been shown by signs and miracles, indications that the gods were
displeased, and that expiations were necessary.[14] The superstition, as is the fate of all
superstitions, had frequently been used for most ungodlike purposes. If a man had a political
enemy, what could do him better service than to make the populace believe that a house had
been crushed by a thunder-bolt, or that a woman had given birth to a pig instead of a child,
because Jupiter had been offended by that enemy's devices? By using such a plea the Grecians
got into Troy, together with the wooden horse, many years ago. The Scotch worshippers of the
Sabbath declared the other day, when the bridge over the Tay was blown away, that the Lord
had interposed to prevent travelling on Sunday!

Cicero had not been long back from his exile when the gods began to show their anger. A statue
of Juno twisted itself half round; a wolf had been seen in the city; three citizens were struck
with lightning; arms were heard to clang, and then wide subterranean noises. Nothing was easier
than the preparation and continuing of such portents. For many years past the heavens above
and the earth beneath had been put into requisition for prodigies.[15] The soothsayers were
always well pleased to declare that there had been some neglect of the gods. It is in the nature
of things that the superstitious tendencies of mankind shall fall a prey to priestcraft. The
quarrels between Cicero and Clodius were as full of life as ever. In this year, Clodius being
Ædile, there had come on debates as to a law passed by Cæsar as Consul, in opposition to Bibulus,
for the distribution of lands among the citizens. There was a question as to a certain tax
which was to be levied on these lands. The tax-gatherers were supported by Cicero, and denounced
by Clodius. Then Clodius and his friends found out that the gods were showering their anger
down upon the city because the ground on which Cicero's house had once stood was being desecrated
by its re-erection. An appeal was made to the soothsayers. They reported, and Cicero rejoined.
The soothsayers had of course been mysterious and doubtful. Cicero first shows that the devotion
of his ground to sacred purposes had been an absurdity, and then he declares that the gods
are angry, not with him but with Clodius. To say that the gods were not angry at all was more
than Cicero dared. The piece, taken as a morsel of declamatory art, is full of vigor, is powerful
in invective, and carries us along in full agreement with the orator; but at the conclusion
we are led to wish that Cicero could have employed his intellect on higher matters.

