SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION--BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY.

                            J. W. POWELL, DIRECTOR.

                                   SKETCH

                                   OF THE

                    MYTHOLOGY OF THE NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS.

                                     BY

                                 J. W. POWELL.

                           SKETCH OF THE MYTHOLOGY

                                   OF THE

                           NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS.

                               BY J. W. POWELL.

                         THE GENESIS OF PHILOSOPHY.

The wonders of the course of nature have ever challenged attention. In savagery, in barbarism,
and in civilization alike, the mind of man has sought the explanation of things. The movements
of the heavenly bodies, the change of seasons, the succession of night and day, the powers
of the air, majestic mountains, ever-flowing rivers, perennial springs, the flight of birds,
the gliding of serpents, the growth of trees, the blooming of flowers, the forms of storm-carved
rocks, the mysteries of life and death, the institutions of society--many are the things to
be explained. The yearning to know is universal. How and why are everlasting interrogatories
profoundly instinct in humanity. In the evolution of the human mind, the instinct of cosmic
interrogation follows hard upon the instinct of self-preservation.

In all the operations of nature, man's weal and woe are involved. A cold wave sweeps from the
north--rivers and lakes are frozen, forests are buried under snows, and the fierce winds almost
congeal the life-fluids of man himself, and indeed man's sources of supply are buried under
the rocks of water. At another time the heavens are as brass, and the clouds come and go with
mockery of unfulfilled promises of rain, the fierce midsummer sun pours its beams upon the
sands, and blasts heated in the furnace of the desert sear the vegetation; and the fruits,
which in more congenial seasons are subsistence and luxury, shrivel before the eyes of famishing
men. A river rages and destroys the adjacent valley with its flood. A mountain bursts forth
with its rivers of fire, the land is buried and the people are swept away. Lightning shivers
a tree and rends a skull. The silent, unseen powers of nature, too, are at work bringing pain
or joy, health or sickness, life or death, to mankind. In like manner man's welfare is involved
in all the institutions of society. How and why are the questions asked about all these things--questions
springing from the deepest instinct of self-preservation.

In all stages of savage, barbaric, and civilized inquiry, every question has found an answer,
every how has had its thus, every why its because. The sum of the answers to the questions
raised by any people constitute its philosophy; hence all peoples have had philosophies consisting
of their accepted explanation of things. Such a philosophy must necessarily result from the
primary instincts developed in man in the early progress of his differentiation from the beast.
This I postulate: if demonstration is necessary, demonstration is at hand. Not only has every
people a philosophy, but every stage of culture is characterized by its stage of philosophy.
Philosophy has been unfolded with the evolution of the human understanding. The history of
philosophy is the history of human opinions from the earlier to the later days--from the lower
to the higher culture.

In the production of a philosophy, phenomena must be discerned, discriminated, classified.
Discernment, discrimination, and classification are the processes by which a philosophy is
developed. In studying the philosophy of a people at any stage of culture, to understand what
such a people entertain as the sum of their knowledge, it is necessary that we should understand
what phenomena they saw, heard, felt, discerned; what discriminations they made, and what resemblances
they seized upon as a basis for the classification on which their explanations rested. A philosophy
will be higher in the scale, nearer the truth, as the discernment is wider, the discrimination
nicer, and the classification better.

The sense of the savage is dull compared with the sense of the civilized man. There is a myth
current in civilization to the effect that the barbarian has highly developed perceptive faculties.
It has no more foundation than the myth of the wisdom of the owl. A savage sees but few sights,
hears but few sounds, tastes but few flavors, smells but few odors; his whole sensuous life
is narrow and blunt, and his facts that are made up of the combination of sensuous impressions
are few. In comparison, the civilized man has his vision extended away toward the infinitesimal
and away toward the infinite; his perception of sound is multiplied to the comprehension of
rapturous symphonies; his perception of taste is increased to the enjoyment of delicious viands;
his perception of smell is developed to the appreciation of most exquisite perfumes; and his
facts that are made up of the combination of sensuous impressions are multiplied beyond enumeration.
The stages of discernment from the lowest savage to the highest civilized man constitute a
series the end of which is far from the beginning.

If the discernment of the savage is little, his discrimination is less. All his sensuous perceptions
are confused; but the confusion of confusion is that universal habit of savagery--the confusion
of the objective with the subjective--so that the savage sees, hears, tastes, smells, feels
the imaginings of his own mind. Subjectively determined sensuous processes are diseases in
civilization, but normal, functional methods in savagery.

The savage philosopher classifies by obvious resemblances--analogic characters. The civilized
philosopher classifies by essential affinitives--homologic characteristics--and the progress
of philosophy is marked by changes from analogic categories to homologic categories.

                  TWO GRAND STAGES OF PHILOSOPHY.

There are two grand stages of philosophy--the mythologic and scientific. In the first, all
phenomena are explained by analogies derived from subjective human experiences; in the latter,
phenomena are explained as orderly successions of events.

In sublime egotism, man first interprets the cosmos as an extension of himself; he classifies
the phenomena of the outer word by their analogies with subjective phenomena; his measure of
distance is his own pace, his measure of time his own sleep, for he says, "It is a thousand
paces to the great rock," or, "It is a hundred sleeps to the great feast." Noises are voices,
powers are hands, movements are made afoot. By subjective examination discovering in himself
will and design, and by inductive reason discovering will and design in his fellow men and
in animals, he extends the induction to all the cosmos, and there discovers in all things will
and design. All phenomena are supposed to be the acts of some one, and that some one having
will and purpose. In mythologic philosophy the phenomena of the outer physical world are supposed
to be the acts of living, willing, designing personages. The simple are compared with and explained
by the complex. In scientific philosophy, phenomena are supposed to be children of antecedent
phenomena, and so far as science goes with its explanation they are thus interpreted. Man with
the subjective phenomena gathered about him is studied from an objective point of view, and
the phenomena of subjective life are relegated to the categories established in the classification
of the phenomena of the outer world; thus the complex is studied by resolving it into its simple
constituents.

There is an unknown known, and there is a known unknown. The unknown known is the philosophy
of savagery; the known unknown is the philosophy of civilization. In those stages of culture
that we call savagery and barbarism, all things are known--supposed to be known; but when at
last something is known, understood, explained, then to those who have that knowledge in full
comprehension all other things become unknown. Then is ushered in the era of investigation
and discovery; then science is born; then is the beginning of civilization. The philosophy
of savagery is complete; the philosophy of civilization fragmentary. Ye men of science, ye
wise fools, ye have discovered the law of gravity, but ye cannot tell what gravity is. But
savagery has a cause and a method for all things; nothing is left unexplained.

In the lower stages of savagery the cosmos is bounded by the great plain of land and sea on
which we tread, and the firmament, the azure surface above, set with brilliants; and beyond
is an abyss of--nothing. Within these bounds all things are known, all things are explained;
there are no mysteries but the whims of the gods. But when the plain on which we tread becomes
a portion of the surface of a great globe, and the domed firmament becomes the heavens, stretching
beyond Alcyone and Sirius, with this enlargement of the realm of philosophy the verity of philosophy
is questioned. The savage is a positive man; the scientist is a doubting man.

The opinions of a savage people are childish. Society grows! Some say society develops; others
that society evolves; but, somehow, I like to say it grows. The history of the discovery of
growth is a large part of the history of human culture. That individuals grow, that the child
grows to be a man, the colt a horse, the scion a tree, is easily recognized, though with unassisted
eye the processes of growth are not discovered. But that races grow--races of men, races of
animals, races of plants, races or groups of worlds--is a very late discovery, and yet all
of us do not grasp so great a thought. Consider that stage of culture where the growth of individuals
is not fully recognized. That stage is savagery. To-day the native races of North America are
agitated by discussions over that great philosophic question, "Do the trees grow or were they
created?" That the grass grows they admit, but the orthodox philosophers stoutly assert that
the forest pines and the great sequoias were created as they are.

Thus in savagery the philosophers dispute over the immediate creation or development of individuals--in
civilization over the immediate creation or development of races. I know of no single fact
that better illustrates the wide difference between these two stages of culture. But let us
look for other terms of comparison. The scalping scene is no more the true picture of savagery
than the bayonet charge of civilization. Savagery is sylvan life. Contrast Ka-ni-ga with New
York. Ka-ni-ga is an Indian village in the Rocky Mountains. New York is, well--New York. The
home in the forest is a shelter of boughs; the home in New York is a palace of granite. The
dwellers in Ka-ni-ga are clothed in the skins of animals, rudely tanned, rudely wrought, and
colored with daubs of clay. For the garments of New York, flocks are tended, fields are cultivated,
ships sail on the sea, and men dig in the mountains for dye-stuffs stored in the rocks. The
industries of Ka-ni-ga employ stone knives, bone awls, and human muscle; the industries of
New York employ the tools of the trades, the machinery of the manufactories, and the power
of the sun--for water-power is but sunshine, and the coal mine is but a pot of pickeled sunbeams.

Even the nursery rhymes are in contrast; the prattler in New York says:

                            Daffy down dilly
                            Has come up to town,
                            With a green petticoat
                            And a blue gown;

but in savagery the outer and nether garments are not yet differentiated; and more: blue and
green are not differentiated, for the Indian has but one name for the two; the green grass
and the blue heavens are of the same hue in the Indian tongue. But the nursery tales of Ka-ni-ga
are of the animals, for the savages associate with the animals on terms of recognized equality;
and this is what the prattler in Ka-ni-ga says:

                            The poor little bee
                            That lives in the tree,
                            The poor little bee
                            That lives in the tree,
                            Has only one arrow
                            In his quiver.

The arts and industries of savagery and civilization are not in greater contrast than their
philosophy. To fully present to you the condition of savagery, as illustrated in their philosophy,
three obstacles appear. After all the years I have spent among the Indians in their mountain
villages, I am not certain that I have sufficiently divorced myself from the thoughts and ways
of civilization to properly appreciate their childish beliefs. The second obstacle subsists
in your own knowledge of the methods and powers of nature, and the ways of civilized society;
and when I attempt to tell you what an Indian thinks, I fear you will never fully forget what
you know, and thus you will be led to give too deep a meaning to a savage explanation; or,
on the other hand, contrasting an Indian concept with your own, the manifest absurdity will
sound to you as an idle tale too simple to deserve mention, or too false to deserve credence.
The third difficulty lies in the attempt to put savage thoughts into civilized language; our
words are so full of meaning, carry with them so many great thoughts and collateral ideas.

Some examples of the philosophic methods belonging to widely separated grades of culture may
serve to make the previous statements clearer.

Wind.--The Ute philosopher discerns that men and animals breathe. He recognizes vaguely the
phenomena of the wind, and discovers its resemblance to breath, and explains the winds by relegating
them to the class of breathings. He declares that there is a monster beast in the north that
breathes the winter winds, and another in the south, and another in the east, and another in
the west. The facts relating to winds are but partially discerned; the philosopher has not
yet discovered that there is an earth-surrounding atmosphere. He fails in making the proper
discriminations. His relegation of the winds to the class of breathings is analogic, but not
homologic. The basis of his philosophy is personality, and hence he has four wind-gods.

The philosopher of the ancient Northland discovered that he could cool his brow with a fan,
or kindle a flame, or sweep away the dust with the wafted air. The winds also cooled his brow,
the winds also swept away the dust and kindled the fire into a great conflagration, and when
the wind blew he said, "Somebody is fanning the waters of the fiord," or "Somebody is fanning
the evergreen forests," and he relegated the winds to the class of fannings, and he said, "The
god Hræsvelger, clothed with eagle-plumes, is spreading his wings for flight, and the winds
rise from under them."

The early Greek philosopher discovered that air may be imprisoned in vessels or move in the
ventilation of caves, and he recognized wind as something more than breath, something more
than fanning, something that can be gathered up and scattered abroad, and so when the winds
blew he said, "The sacks have been untied," or "The caves have been opened."

The philosopher of civilization, has discovered that breath, the fan-wafted breeze, the air
confined in vessels, the air moving in ventilation, that these are all parts of the great body
of air which surrounds the earth, all in motion, swung by the revolving earth, heated at the
tropics, cooled at the poles, and thus turned into counter-currents and again deflected by
a thousand geographic features, so that the winds sweep down valleys, eddy among mountain crags,
or waft the spray from the crested billows of the sea, all in obedience to cosmic laws. The
facts discerned are many, the discriminations made are nice, and the classifications based
on true homologies, and we have the science of meteorology, which exhibits an orderly succession
of events even in the fickle winds.

In this same philosophy we learn that in that ancient time a council of the gods was held to
consider the propriety of making a moon, and at last the task was given to Whippoorwill, a
god of the night, and a frog yielded himself a willing sacrifice for this purpose, and the
Whippoorwill, by incantations, and other magical means, transformed the frog into the new moon.
The truth of this origin of the moon is made evident to our very senses; for do we not see
the frog riding the moon at night, and the moon is cold, because the frog from which it was
made was cold?

The Norse philosopher tells us that Night and Day, each, has a horse and a car, and they drive
successively one after the other around the world in twenty-four hours. Night rides first with
her steed named Dew-hair, and every morning as he ends his course he bedews the earth with
foam from his bit. The steed driven by Day is Shining-hair. All the sky and earth glisten with
the light of his mane. Jarnved, the great iron-wood forest lying to the east of Midgard, is
the abode of a race of witches. One monster witch is the mother of many sons in the form of
wolves, two of which are Skol and Hate. Skol is the wolf that would devour the maiden Sun,
and she daily flies from the maw of the terrible beast, and the moon-man flies from the wolf Hate.

The philosopher of Samos tells us that the earth is surrounded by hollow crystalline spheres
set one within another, and all revolving at different rates from east to west about the earth,
and that the sun is set in one of these spheres and the moon in another.

The philosopher of civilization tells us that the sun is an incandescent globe, one of the
millions afloat in space. About this globe the planets revolve, and the sun and planets and
moons were formed from nebulous matter by the gradual segregation of their particles controlled
by the laws of gravity, motion, and affinity.

The sun, traveling by an appointed way across the heavens with the never-ending succession
of day and night, and the ever-recurring train of seasons, is one of the subjects of every
philosophy. Among all peoples, in all times, there is an explanation of these phenomena, but
in the lowest stage, way down in savagery, how few the facts discerned, how vague the discriminations
made, how superficial the resemblances by which the phenomena are classified! In this stage
of culture, all the daily and monthly and yearly phenomena which come as the direct result
of the movements of the heavenly bodies are interpreted as the doings of some one--some god
acts. In civilization the philosopher presents us the science of astronomy with all its accumulated
facts of magnitude, and weights, and orbits, and distances, and velocities--with all the nice
discriminations of absolute, relative, and apparent motions; and all these facts he is endeavoring
to classify in homologic categories, and the evolutions and revolutions of the heavenly bodies
are explained as an orderly succession of events.

Rain.--The Shoshoni philosopher believes the domed firmament to be ice, and surely it is the
very color of ice, and he believes further that a monster serpent-god coils his huge back to
the firmament and with his scales abrades its face and causes the ice-dust to fall upon the
earth. In the winter-time it falls as snow, but in the summer-time it melts and falls as rain,
and the Shoshoni philosopher actually sees the serpent of the storm in the rainbow of many colors.

The Oraibi philosopher who lives in a pueblo is acquainted with architecture, and so his world
is seven-storied. There is a world below and five worlds above this one. Muĭñwa, the rain-god,
who lives in the world immediately above, dips his great brush, made of feathers of the birds
of the heavens, into the lakes of the skies and sprinkles the earth with refreshing rain for
the irrigation of the crops tilled by these curious Indians who live on the cliffs of Arizona.
In winter, Muĭñwa crushes the ice of the lakes of the heavens and scatters it over the earth,
and we have a snow-fall.

The Hindoo philosopher says that the lightning-bearded Indra breaks the vessels that hold the
waters of the skies with his thunder-bolts, and the rains descend to irrigate the earth.

The philosopher of civilization expounds to us the methods by which the waters are evaporated
from the land and the surface of the sea, and carried away by the winds, and gathered into
clouds to be discharged again upon the earth, keeping up forever that wonderful circulation
of water from the heavens to the earth and from the earth to the heavens--that orderly succession
of events in which the waters travel by river, by sea, and by cloud.

Rainbow.--In Shoshoni, the rainbow is a beautiful serpent that abrades the firmament of ice
to give us snow and rain. In Norse, the rainbow is the bridge Bifrost spanning the space between
heaven and earth. In the Iliad, the rainbow is the goddess Iris, the messenger of the King
of Olympus. In Hebrew, the rainbow is the witness to a covenant. In science, the rainbow is
an analysis of white light into its constituent colors by the refraction of raindrops.

Falling stars.--In Ute, falling stars are the excrements of dirty little star-gods. In science--well,
I do not know what falling stars are in science. I think they are cinders from the furnace
where the worlds are forged. You may call this mythologic or scientific, as you please.

Migration of birds.--The Algonkian philosopher explains the migration of birds by relating
the myth of the combat between Ka-bĭ-bo-no-kĭ and Shiñgapis, the prototype or progenitor of
the water-hen, one of their animal gods. A fierce battle raged between Ka-bĭ-bo-no-kĭ and Shiñgapis,
but the latter could not be conquered. All the birds were driven from the land but Shiñgapis;
and then was it established that whenever in the future Winter-maker should come with his cold
winds, fierce snows, and frozen waters, all the birds should leave for the south except Shiñgapis
and his friends. So the birds that spend their winters north are called by the Algonkian philosophers
"the friends of Shiñgapis."

In contrast to this explanation of the flight of birds may be placed the explanation of the
modern evolutionist, who says that the birds migrate in quest of abundance of food and a genial
climate, guided by an instinct of migration, which is an accumulation of inherited memories.

Diversity of languages.--The Kaibäbĭt philosopher accounts for the diversity of languages in
this manner: Sĭ-tcom'-pa Ma-só-ĭts, the grandmother goddess of the sea, brought up mankind
from beneath the waves in a sack, which she delivered to the Cĭn-aú-äv brothers, the great
wolf-gods of his mythology, and told them, to carry it from the shores of the sea to the Kaibab
Plateau, and then to open it; but they were by no means to open the package ere their arrival,
lest some great disaster should befall. The curiosity of the younger Cĭn-aú-äv overcame him,
and he untied the sack, and the people swarmed out; but the elder Cĭn-aú-äv, the wiser god,
ran back and closed the sack while yet not all the people had escaped, and they carried the
sack, with its remaining contents, to the plateau, and there opened it. Those that remained
in the sack found a beautiful land--a great plateau covered with mighty forests, through which
elk, deer, and antelope roamed in abundance, and many mountain-sheep were found on the bordering
crags; piv, the nuts of the edible pine, they found on the foot-hills, and us, the fruit of
the yucca, in sunny glades; and nänt, the meschal crowns, for their feasts; and tcu-ar, the
cactus-apple, from which to make their wine; reeds grew about the lakes for their arrow-shafts;
the rocks were full of flints for their barbs and knives, and away down, in the cañon they
found a pipe-stone quarry, and on the hills they found är-a-ûm-pĭv, their tobacco. O, it was
a beautiful land that was given to these, the favorites of the gods! The descendants of these
people are the present Kaibäbĭts of northern Arizona. Those who escaped by the way, through
the wicked curiosity of the younger Cĭn-aú-äv, scattered over the country and became Navajos,
Mokis, Sioux, Comanches, Spaniards, Americans--poor, sorry fragments of people without the
original language of the gods, and only able to talk in imperfect jargons.

The Hebrew philosopher tells us that on the plains of Shinar the people of the world were gathered
to build a city and erect a tower, the summit of which should reach above the waves of any
flood Jehovah might send. But their tongues were confused as a punishment for their impiety.
The philosopher of science tells us that mankind was widely scattered over the earth anterior
to the development of articulate speech, that the languages of which we are cognizant sprang
from innumerable centers as each little tribe developed its own language, and that in the study
of any language an orderly succession of events may be discovered in its evolution from a few
simple holophrastic locutions to a complex language with a multiplicity of words and an elaborate
grammatic structure, by the differentiation of the parts of speech and the integration of the
sentence.

A cough.--A man coughs. In explanation the Ute philosopher would tell us that an u-nú-pĭts--a
pygmy spirit of evil--had entered the poor man's stomach, and he would charge the invalid with
having whistled at night; for in their philosophy it is taught that if a man whistles at night,
when the pygmy spirits are abroad, one is sure to go through the open door into the stomach,
and the evidence of this disaster is found in the cough which the u-nú-pĭts causes. Then the
evil spirit must be driven out, and the medicine-man stretches his patient on the ground and
scarifies him with the claws of eagles from head to heel, and while performing the scarification
a group of men and women stand about, forming a chorus, and medicine-man and chorus perform
a fugue in gloomy ululation, for these wicked spirits will depart only by incantations and
scarifications.

In our folk-lore philosophy a cough is caused by a "cold," whatever that may be--a vague entity--that
must be treated first according to the maxim "Feed a cold and starve a fever," and the "cold"
is driven away by potations of bitter teas.

In our medical philosophy a cough may be the result of a clogging of the pores of the skin,
and is relieved by clearing those flues that carry away the waste products of vital combustion.

These illustrations are perhaps sufficient to exhibit the principal characteristics of the
two methods of philosophy, and, though they cover but narrow fields, it should be remembered
that every philosophy deals with the whole cosmos. An explanation of all things is sought--not
alone the great movements of the heavens, or the phenomena that startle even the unthinking,
but every particular which is observed. Abstractly, the plane of demarkation between the two
methods of philosophy can be sharply drawn, but practically we find them strangely mixed; mythologic
methods prevail in savagery and barbarism, and scientific methods prevail in civilization.
Mythologic philosophies antedate scientific philosophies. The thaumaturgic phases of mythology
are the embryonic stages of philosophy, science being the fully developed form. Without mythology
there could be no science, as without childhood there could be no manhood, or without embryonic
conditions there could be no ultimate forms.

             MYTHOLOGIC PHILOSOPHY HAS FOUR STAGES.

Mythologic philosophy is the subject with which we deal. Its method, as stated in general terms,
is this: All phenomena of the outer objective world are interpreted by comparison with those
of the inner subjective world Whatever happens, some one does it; that some one has a will
and works as he wills. The basis of the philosophy is personality. The persons who do the things
which we observe in the phenomena of the universe are the gods of mythology--the cosmos is
a pantheon. Under this system, whatever may be the phenomenon observed, the philosopher asks,
"Who does it?" and "Why?" and the answer comes, "A god with his design." The winds blow, and
the interrogatory is answered, "Æolus frees them from the cave to speed the ship of a friend,
or destroy the vessel of a foe." The actors in mythologic philosophy are gods.

In the character of these gods four stages of philosophy may be discovered. In the lowest and
earliest stage everything has life; everything is endowed with personality, will, and design;
animals are endowed with all the wonderful attributes of mankind; all inanimate objects are
believed to be animate; trees think and speak; stones have loves and hates; hills and mountains,
springs and rivers, and all the bright stars, have life--everything discovered objectively
by the senses is looked upon subjectively by the philosopher and endowed with all the attributes
supposed to be inherent in himself. In this stage of philosophy everything is a god. Let us
call it hecastotheism.

In the second stage men no longer attribute life indiscriminately to inanimate things; but
the same powers and attributes recognized by subjective vision in man are attributed to the
animals by which he is surrounded. No line of demarkation is drawn between man and beast; all
are great beings endowed with wonderful attributes. Let us call this stage zoötheism, when
men worship beasts. All the phenomena of nature are the doings of these animal gods; all the
facts of nature, all the phenomena of the known universe, all the institutions of humanity
known to the philosophers of this stage, are accounted for in the mythologic history of these
zoömorphic gods.

In the third stage a wide gulf is placed between man and the lower animals. The animal gods
are dethroned, and the powers and phenomena of nature are personified and deified. Let us call
this stage physitheism. The gods are strictly anthropomorphic, having the form as well as the
mental, moral, and social attributes of men. Thus we have a god of the sun, a god of the moon,
a god of the air, a god of dawn, and a deity of the night.

In the fourth stage, mental, moral, and social characteristics are personified and deified.
Thus we have a god of war, a god of love, a god of revelry, a god of plenty, and like personages
who preside over the institutions and occupations of mankind. Let us call this psychotheism.
With the mental, moral, and social characteristics in these gods are associated the powers
of nature; and they differ from nature-gods chiefly in that they have more distinct psychic
characteristics.

Psychotheism, by the processes of mental integration, developes in one direction into monotheism,
and in the other into pantheism. When the powers of nature are held predominant in the minds
of the philosophers through whose cogitations this evolution of theism is carried on, pantheism,
as the highest form of psychotheism, is the final result; but when the moral qualities are
held in highest regard in the minds of the men in whom this process of evolution is carried
on, monotheism, or a god whose essential characteristics are moral qualities, is the final
product. The monotheistic god is not nature, but presides over and operates through, nature.
Psychotheism has long been recognized. All of the earlier literature of mankind treats largely
of these gods, for it is an interesting fact that in the history of any civilized people, the
evolution of psychotheism is approximately synchronous with the invention of an alphabet. In
the earliest writings of the Egyptians, the Hindoos, and the Greeks, this stage is discovered,
and Osiris, Indra, and Zeus are characteristic representatives. As psychotheism and written
language appear together in the evolution of culture, this stage of theism is consciously or
unconsciously a part of the theme of all written history.

The paleontologist, in studying the rocks of the hill and the cliffs of the mountain, discovers,
in inanimate stones, the life-forms of the ancient earth. The geologist, in the study of the
structure of valleys and mountains, discovers groups of facts that lead him to a knowledge
of more ancient mountains and valleys and seas, of geographic features long ago buried, and
followed by a new land with new mountains and valleys, and new seas. The philologist, in studying
the earliest writings of a people, not only discovers the thoughts purposely recorded in those
writings, but is able to go back in the history of the people many generations, and discover
with even greater certainty the thoughts of the more ancient people who made the words. Thus
the writings of the Greeks, the Hindoos, and the Egyptians, that give an account of their psychic
gods, also contain a description of an earlier theism unconsciously recorded by the writers
themselves. Psychotheism prevailed when the sentences were coined, physitheism when the words
were coined. So the philologist discovers physitheism in all ancient literature. But the verity
of that stage of philosophy does not rest alone upon the evidence derived from the study of
fossil philosophies through the science of philology. In the folk-lore of every civilized people
having a psychotheistic philosophy, an earlier philosophy with nature-gods is discovered.

The different stages of philosophy which I have attempted to characterize have never been found
in purity. We always observe different methods of explanation existing side by side, and the
type of a philosophy is determined by the prevailing characteristics of its explanation of
phenomena. Fragments of the earlier are always found side by side with, the greater body of
the later philosophy. Man has never clothed himself in new garments of wisdom, but has ever
been patching the old, and the old and the new are blended in the same pattern, and thus we
have atavism in philosophy. So in the study of any philosophy which has reached the psychotheistic
age, patches of the earlier philosophy are always seen. Ancient nature-gods are found to be
living and associating with the supreme psychic deities. Thus in anthropologic science there
are three ways by which, to go back in the history of any civilized people and learn of its
barbaric physitheism. But of the verity of this stage we have further evidence. When Christianity
was carried north from Central Europe, the champions of the new philosophy, and its consequent
religion, discovered, among those who dwelt by the glaciers of the north, a barbaric philosophy
which they have preserved to history in the Eddas and Sagas, and Norse literature is full of
a philosophy in a transition state, from physitheism to psychotheism; and, mark! the people
discovered in this transition state were inventing an alphabet--they were carving Runes. Then
a pure physitheism was discovered in the Aztec barbarism of Mexico; and elsewhere on the globe
many people were found in that stage of culture to which this philosophy properly belongs.
Thus the existence of physitheism as a stage of philosophy is abundantly attested. Comparative
mythologists are agreed in recognizing these two stages. They might not agree to throw all
of the higher and later philosophies into one group, as I have done, but all recognize the
plane of demarkation between the higher and the lower groups as I have drawn it. Scholars,
too, have come essentially to an agreement that physitheism is earlier and older than psychotheism.
Perhaps there may be left a "doubting Thomas" who believes that the highest stage of psychotheism--that
is, monotheism--was the original basis for the philosophy of the world, and that all other
forms are degeneracies from that primitive and perfect state. If there be such a man left,
to him what I have to say about philosophy is blasphemy.

Again, all students of comparative philosophy, or comparative mythology, or comparative religion,
as you may please to approach this subject from different points of view, recognize that there
is something else; that there are philosophies, or mythologies, or religions, not included
in the two great groups. All that something else has been vaguely called fetichism. I have
divided it into two parts, hecastotheism and zoötheism. The verity of zoötheism as a stage
of philosophy rests on abundant evidence. In psychotheism it appears as devilism in obedience
to a well-known law of comparative theology, viz, that the gods of a lower and superseded stage
of culture oftentimes become the devils of a higher stage. So in the very highest stages of
psychotheism we find beast-devils. In Norse mythology, we have Fenris the wolf, and Jormungandur
the serpent. Dragons appear in Greek mythology, the bull is an Egyptian god, a serpent is found
in the Zendavesta; and was there not a scaly fellow in the garden of Eden? So common are these
beast-demons in the higher mythologies that they are used in every literature as rhetorical
figures. And where-ever we find nature-worship we find it accompanied with beast-worship. In
the study of higher philosophies, having learned that lower philosophies often exist side by
side with them, we might legitimately conclude that a philosophy based upon animal gods had
existed previous to the development of physitheism; and philologic research, leads to the same
conclusion. But we are not left to base this conclusion upon, an induction only, for in the
examination of savage philosophies we actually discover zoötheism in all its proportions. Many
of the Indians of North America, and many of South America, and many of the tribes of Africa,
are found to be zoötheists. Their supreme gods are animals--tigers, bears, wolves, serpents,
birds. Having discovered this, with a vast accumulation of evidence, we are enabled to carry
philosophy back one stage beyond physitheism, and we can confidently assert that all the philosophies
of civilization have come up through these three stages.

And yet, there are fragments of philosophy discovered which are not zoötheistic, physitheistic,
nor psychotheistic. What are they? We find running through all three stages of higher philosophy
that phenomena are sometimes explained by regarding them as the acts of persons who do not
belong to any of the classes of gods found in the higher stages. We find fragments of philosophy
everywhere which seem to assume that all inanimate nature is animate; that mountains and hills,
and rivers and springs, that trees and grasses, that stones, and all fragments of things are
endowed with life and with will, and act for a purpose. These fragments of philosophy lead
to the discovery of hecastotheism. Philology also leads us back to that state when the animate
and the inanimate were confounded, for the holophrastic roots into which words are finally
resolved show us that all inanimate things were represented in language as actors. Such is
the evidence on which we predicate the existence of hecastotheism as a veritable stage of philosophy.
Unlike the three higher stages, it has no people extant on the face of the globe, known to
be in this stage of culture. The philosophies of many of the lowest tribes of mankind are yet
unknown, and hecastotheism may be discovered; but at the present time we are not warranted
in saying that any tribe entertains this philosophy as its highest wisdom.

               OUTGROWTH FROM MYTHOLOGIC PHILOSOPHY.

The three stages of mythologic philosophy that are still extant in the world must be more thoroughly
characterized, and the course of their evolution indicated. But in order to do this clearly,
certain outgrowths from mythologic philosophy must be explained--certain theories and practices
that necessarily result from, this philosophy, and that are intricately woven into the institutions
of mankind.

Ancientism.--The first I denominate ancientism. Yesterday was better than to-day. The ancients
were wiser that we. This belief in a better day and a better people in the elder time is almost
universal among mankind. A belief so widely spread, so profoundly entertained, must have for
its origin some important facts in the constitution or history of mankind. Let us see what
they are.

In the history of every individual the sports and joys of childhood are compared and contrasted
with the toils and pains of old age. Greatly protracted life, in savagery and barbarism, is
not a boon to be craved. In that stage of society where the days and the years go by with little
or no provision for a time other than that which is passing, the old must go down to the grave
through poverty and suffering. In that stage of culture to-morrow's bread is not certain, and
to-day's bread is often scarce. In civilization plenty and poverty live side by side; the palace
and the hovel are on the same landscape; the rich and poor elbow each other on the same street;
but in savagery plenty and poverty come with recurring days to the same man, and the tribe
is rich to-day and poor to-morrow, and the days of want come in every man's history; and when
they come the old suffer most, and the burden of old age is oppressive. In youth activity is
joy; in old age activity is pain. So wonder, then, that old age loves youth, or that to-day
loves yesterday, for the instinct is born of the inherited experiences of mankind.

But there is yet another and more potent reason for ancientism. That tale is the most wonderful
that has been most repeated, for the breath of speech is the fertilizer of story. Hence, the
older the story the greater its thaumaturgics. Thus, yesterday is greater than to-day by natural
processes of human exaggeration. Again, that is held to be most certain, and hence most sacred,
which has been most often affirmed. A Brahman was carrying a goat to the altar. Three thieves
would steal it. So they placed themselves at intervals along the way by which the pious Brahman
would travel. When the venerable man came to the first thief he was accosted: "Brahman, why
do you carry a dog?" Now, a dog is an unclean beast which no Brahman must touch. And the Brahman,
after looking at his goat, said: "You do err; this is a goat." And when the old man reached
the second thief, again he was accosted: "Brahman, why do you carry a dog?" So the Brahman
put his goat on the ground, and after narrowly scrutinizing it, he said: "Surely this is a
goat," and went on his way. When he came to the third thief he was once more accosted: "Brahman,
why do you carry a dog?" Then the Brahman, having thrice heard that his goat was a dog, was
convinced, and throwing it down, he fled to the temple for ablution, and the thieves had a feast.

The child learns not for himself, but is taught, and accepts as true that which is told, and
a propensity to believe the affirmed is implanted in his mind. In every society some are wise
and some are foolish, and the wise are revered, and their affirmations are accepted. Thus,
the few lead the multitude in knowledge, and the propensity to believe the affirmed started
in childhood is increased in manhood in the great average of persons constituting society,
and these propensities are inherited from generation to generation, until we have a cumulation
of effects.

The propagation of opinions by affirmation, the cultivation of the propensity to believe that
which has been affirmed many times, let us call affirmatization. If the world's opinions were
governed only by the principles of mythologic philosophy, affirmatization would become so powerful
that nothing would be believed but the anciently affirmed. Men would come to no new knowledge.
Society would stand still listening to the wisdom of the fathers. But the power of affirmatization
is steadily undermined by science.

And, still again, the institutions of society conform to its philosophy. The explanations of
things always includes the origin of human institutions. So the welfare of society is based
on philosophy, and the venerable sayings which constitute philosophy are thus held as sacred.
So ancientism is developed from accumulated life-experiences; by the growth of story in repeated
narration; by the steadily increasing power of affirmatization, and by respect for the authority
upon which the institutions of society are based; all accumulating as they come down the generations.
That we do thus inherit effects we know, for has it not been affirmed in the Book that "the
fathers have eaten grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge"? As men come to believe
that the "long ago" was better than the "now," and the dead were better than the living, then
philosophy must necessarily include a theory of degeneracy, which is a part of ancientism.

Theistic Society.--Again, the actors in mythologic philosophy are personages, and we always
find them organized in societies. The social organization of mythology is always found to be
essentially identical with the social organization of the people who entertain the philosophy.
The gods are husbands and wives, and parents and children, and the gods have an organized government.
This gives us theistic society, and we cannot properly characterize a theism without taking
its mythic society into consideration.

Spiritism.--In the earliest stages of society of which we have practical knowledge by acquaintance
with the people themselves, a belief in the existence of spirits prevails--a shade, an immaterial
existence, which is the duplicate of the material personage. The genesis of this belief is
complex. The workings of the human mind during periods of unconsciousness lead to opinions
that are enforced by many physical phenomena.

First, we have the activities of the mind during sleep, when the man seems to go out from himself,
to converse with his friends, to witness strange scenes, and to have many wonderful experiences.
Thus the man seems to have lived an eventful life, when his body was, in fact, quiescent and
unconscious. Memories of scenes and activities in former days, and the inherited memories of
scenes witnessed and actions performed by ancestors, are blended in strange confusion by broken
and inverted sequences. Now and then the dream-scenes are enacted in real life, and the infrequent
coincidence or apparent verification makes deep impression on the mind, while unfulfilled dreams
are forgotten. Thus the dreams of sleepers are attributed to their immaterial duplicates their
spirits. In many diseases, also, the mind seems to wander, to see sights and to hear sounds,
and to have many wonderful experiences, while the body itself is apparently unconscious. Sometimes,
on restored health, the person may recall these wonderful experiences, and during their occurrence
the subject talks to unseen persons, and seems to have replies, and to act, to those who witness,
in such a manner that a second self--a spirit independent of the body--is suggested. When disease
amounts to long-continued insanity all of these effects are greatly exaggerated, and make a
deep impression upon all who witness the phenomena. Thus the hallucinations of fever-racked
brains, and mad minds, are attributed to spirits.

The same conditions of apparent severance of mind and body witnessed in dreams and hallucinations
are often produced artificially in the practice of ecstasism. In the vicissitudes of savage
life, while little or no provision is made for the future, there are times when the savage
resorts to almost anything at hand as a means of subsistence, and thus all plants and all parts
of plants, seed, fruit, flowers, leaves, bark, roots--anything in times of extreme want--may
be used as food. But experience soon teaches the various effects upon the human system which
are produced by the several vegetable substances with which he meets, and thus the effect of
narcotics is early discovered, and the savage in the practice of his religion oftentimes resorts
to these native drugs for the purpose of producing an ecstatic state under which divination
may be performed. The practice of ecstasism is universal in the lower stages of culture. In
times of great anxiety, every savage and barbarian seeks to know of the future. Through all
the earlier generations of mankind, ecstasism has been practiced, and civilized man has thus
an inherited appetite for narcotics, to which the enormous propensity to drunkenness existing
in all nations bears witness. When the great actor in his personation of Rip Van Winkle holds
his goblet aloft and says, "Here's to your health and to your family's, and may they live long
and prosper," he connects the act of drinking with a prayer, and unconsciously demonstrates
the origin of the use of stimulants. It may be that when the jolly companion has become a loathsome
sot, and his mind is ablaze with the fire of drink, and he sees uncouth beasts in horrid presence,
that inherited memories haunt him with visions of the beast-gods worshipped by his ancestors
at the very time when the appetite for stimulants was created.

But ecstasism is produced in other ways, and for this purpose the savage and barbarian often
resorts to fasting and bodily torture. In many ways he produces the wonderful state, and the
visions of ecstasy are interpreted as the evidence of spirits.

Many physical phenomena serve to confirm this opinion. It is very late in philosophy when shadows
are referred to the interception of the rays of the sun. In savagery and barbarism, shadows
are supposed to be emanations from or duplicates of the bodies causing the shadows. And what
savage understands the reflection of the rays of the sun by which images are produced? They
also are supposed to be emanations or duplications of the object reflected. No savage or barbarian
could understand that the waves of the air are turned back, and sound is duplicated in an echo.
He knows not that there is an atmosphere, and to him the echo is the voice of an unseen, personage--a
spirit. There is no theory more profoundly implanted in early mankind than that of spiritism.

Thaumaturgics.--The gods of mythologic philosophies are created to account for the wonders
of nature. Necessarily they are a wonder-working folk, and, having been endowed with these
magical powers in all the histories given in mythic tales of their doings on the earth, we
find them performing most wonderful feats. They can transform themselves; they can disappear
and reappear; all their senses are magical; some are endowed with a multiplicity of eyes, others
have a multiplicity of ears; in Norse mythology the watchman on the rainbow bridge could hear
the grass grow, and wool on the backs of sheep; arms can stretch out to grasp the distance,
tails can coil about mountains, and all powers become magical. But the most wonderful power
with which the gods are endowed is the power of will, for we find that they can think their
arrows to the hearts of their enemies; mountains are overthrown by thought, and thoughts are
projected into other minds. Such are the thaumaturgics of mythologic philosophy.

Mythic tales.--Early man having created through the development of his philosophy a host of
personages, these gods must have a history. A part of that history, and the most important
part to us as students of philosophy, is created in the very act of creating the gods themselves.
I mean that portion of their history which relates to the operations of nature, for the gods
were created to account for those things. But to this is added much else of adventure. The
gods love as men love, and go in quest of mates. The gods hate as men hate, and fight in single
combat or engage in mythic battles; and the history of these adventures impelled by love and
hate, and all other passions and purposes with which men are endowed, all woven into a complex
tissue with their doings in carrying out the operations of nature, constitutes the web and
woof of mythology.

Religion.--Again, as human welfare is deeply involved in the operations of nature, man's chief
interest is in the gods. In this interest religion originates. Man, impelled by his own volition,
guided by his own purposes, aspires to a greater happiness, and endeavor follows endeavor,
but at every step his progress is impeded; his own powers fail before the greater powers of
nature; his powers are pygmies, nature's powers are giants, and to him these giants are gods
with wills and purposes of their own, and he sees that man in his weakness can succeed only
by allying himself with the gods. Hence, impelled by this philosophy, man must have communion
with the gods, and in this communion he must influence them to work for himself. Hence, religion,
which has to do with the relations which exist between the gods and man, is the legitimate
offspring of mythologic philosophy.

Thus we see that out of mythologic philosophy, as branches of the great tree itself, there
grow ancientism, theistic society, spiritism, thaumaturgics, mythic tales, and religion.

         THE COURSE OF EVOLUTION IN MYTHOLOGIC PHILOSOPHY.

I shall now give a summary characterization of zoötheism, then call attention to some of the
relics of hecastotheism found therein, and proceed with a brief statement of the higher stages
of theism. The apparent and easily accessible is studied first. In botany, the trees and the
conspicuous flowering plants of garden, field, and plain were first known, and then all other
plants were vaguely grouped as weeds; but, since the most conspicuous phenogamous plants were
first studied, what vast numbers of new orders, new genera, and new species have been discovered,
in the progress of research, to the lowest cryptogams!

In the study of ethnology we first recognized the more civilized races. The Aryan, Hamites,
Shemites, and Chinese, and the rest were the weeds of humanity--the barbarian and savage, sometimes
called Turanians. But, when we come carefully to study these lower people, what numbers of
races are discovered! In North America alone we have more than seventy-five--seventy-five stocks
of people speaking seventy-five stocks of language, and some single stocks embracing many distinct
languages and dialects. The languages of the Algonkian family are as diverse as the Indo-European
tongues. So are the languages of the Dakotans, the Shoshonians, the Tinnéans, and others; so
that in North America we have more than five hundred languages spoken to-day. Each linguistic
stock is found to have a philosophy of its own, and each stock as many branches of philosophy
as it has languages and dialects. North America presents a magnificent field for the study
of savage and barbaric philosophies.

This vast region of thought has been explored only by a few adventurous travelers in the world
of science. No thorough survey of any part has been made. Yet the general outlines of North
American philosophy are known, but the exact positions, the details, are all yet to be filled
in--as the geography of the general outline of North America is known by exploration, but the
exact positions and details of topography are yet to be filled in as the result of careful
survey. Myths of the Algonkian stock are found in many a volume of Americana, the best of which
were recorded by the early missionaries who came from Europe, though we find some of them,
mixed with turbid speculations, in the writings of Schoolcraft. Many of the myths of the Indians
of the south, in that region stretching back from the great Gulf, are known; some collected
by travelers, others by educated Indians.

Many of the myths of the Iroquois are known. The best of these are in the writings of Morgan,
America's greatest anthropologist. Missionaries, travelers, and linguists have given us a great
store of the myths of the Dakotan stock. Many myths of the Tinnéan also have been collected.
Petitot has recorded a number of those found at the north, and we have in manuscript some of
the myths of a southern branch--the Navajos. Perhaps the myths of the Shoshonians have been
collected more thoroughly than those of any other stock. These are yet unpublished, but the
manuscripts are in the library of the Bureau of Ethnology. Powers has recorded many of the
myths of various stocks in California, and the old Spanish writings give us a fair collection
of the Nahuatlan myths of Mexico, and Rink has presented an interesting volume on the mythology
of the Innuits; and, finally, fragments of mythology have been collected from nearly all the
tribes of North America, and they are scattered through thousands of volumes, so that the literature
is vast. The brief description which I shall give of zoötheism is founded on a study of the
materials which I have thus indicated.

All these tribes are found in the higher stages of savagery, or the lower stages of barbarism,
and their mythologies are found to be zoötheistic among the lowest, physitheistic among the
highest, and a great number of tribes are found in a transition state: for zoötheism is found
to be a characteristic of savagery, and physitheism of barbarism, using the terms as they have
been defined by Morgan. The supreme gods of this stage are animals. The savage is intimately
associated with animals. From them he obtains the larger part of his clothing, and much of
his food, and he carefully studies their habits and finds many wonderful things. Their knowledge
and skill and power appear to him to be superior to his own. He sees the mountain-sheep fleet
among the crags, the eagle soaring in the heavens, the humming-bird poised over its blossom-cup
of nectar, the serpents swift without legs, the salmon scaling the rapids, the spider weaving
its gossamer web, the ant building a play-house mountain--in all animal nature he sees things
too wonderful for him, and from admiration he grows to adoration, and the animals become his gods.

Ancientism plays an important part in this zoötheism. It is not the animals of to-day whom
the Indians worship, but their progenitors--their prototypes. The wolf of to-day is a howling
pest, but that wolf's ancestor--the first of the line--was a god. The individuals of every
species are supposed to have descended from an ancient being--a progenitor of the race; and
so they have a grizzly-bear god, an eagle-god, a rattlesnake-god, a trout-god, a spider-god--a
god for every species and variety of animal.

By these animal gods all things were established. The heavenly bodies were created and their
ways appointed, and when the powers and phenomena of nature are personified the personages
are beasts, and all human institutions also were established by the ancient animal-gods.

The ancient animals of any philosophy of this stage are found to constitute a clan or gens--a
body of relatives, or consanguinei with grandfathers, fathers, sons, and brothers. In Ute theism,
the ancient To-gó-äv, the first rattlesnake is the grandfather, and all the animal-gods are
assigned to their relationships. Grandfather To-gó-äv, the wise, was the chief of the council,
but Cĭn-aú-äv, the ancient wolf, was the chief of the clan.

There were many other clans and tribes of ancient gods with whom these supreme gods had dealings,
of which hereafter; and, finally, each of these ancient gods became the progenitor of a new
tribe, so that we have a tribe of bears, a tribe of eagles, a tribe of rattlesnakes, a tribe
of spiders, and many other tribes, as we have tribes of Utes, tribes of Sioux, tribes of Navajos;
and in that philosophy tribes of animals are considered to be coördinate with tribes of men.
All of these gods have invisible duplicates--spirits--and they have often visited the earth.
All of the wonderful things seen in nature are done by the animal-gods. That elder life was
a magic life; but the descendants of the gods are degenerate. Now and then as a medicine-man
by practicing sorcery can perform great feats, so now and then there is a medicine-bear, a
medicine-wolf, or a medicine-snake that can work magic.

On winter nights the Indians gather about the camp-fire, and then the doings of the gods are
recounted in many a mythic tale. I have heard the venerable and impassioned orator on the camp-meeting
stand rehearse the story of the crucifixion, and have seen the thousands gathered there weep
in contemplation of the story of divine suffering, and heard their shouts roll down the forest
aisles as they gave vent to their joy at the contemplation of redemption. But the scene was
not a whit more dramatic than another I have witnessed in an evergreen forest of the Rocky
Mountain region, where a tribe was gathered under the great pines, and the temple of light
from the blazing fire was walled by the darkness of midnight, and in the midst of the temple
stood the wise old man, telling, in simple savage language, the story of Ta-wăts, when he conquered
the sun and established the seasons and the days. In that pre-Columbian time, before the advent
of white men, all the Indian tribes of North America gathered on winter nights by the shores
of the seas where the tides beat in solemn rhythm, by the shores of the great lakes where the
waves dashed against frozen beaches, and by the banks of the rivers flowing ever in solemn
mystery--each in its own temple of illumined space--and listened to the story of its own supreme
gods, the ancients of time.

Religion, in this stage of theism, is sorcery. Incantation, dancing, fasting, bodily torture,
and ecstasism are practiced. Every tribe has its potion or vegetable drug, by which the ecstatic
state is produced, and their venerable medicine-men see visions and dream dreams. No enterprise
is undertaken without consulting the gods, and no evil impends but they seek to propitiate
the gods. All daily life, to the minutest particular, is religious. This stage of religion
is characterized by fetichism. Every Indian is provided with his charm or fetich, revealed
to him in some awful hour of ecstasy produced by fasting, or feasting, or drunkenness, and
that fetich he carries with him to bring good luck, in love or in combat, in the hunt or on
the journey. He carries a fetich suspended to his neck, he ties a fetich to his bow, he buries
a fetich under his tent, he places a fetich under his pillow of wild-cat skins, he prays to
his fetich, he praises it, or chides it; if successful, his fetich receives glory; if he fail,
his fetich is disgraced. These fetiches may be fragments of bone or shell, the tips of the
tails of animals, the claws of birds or beasts, perhaps dried hearts of little warblers, shards
of beetles, leaves powdered and held in bags, or crystals from the rocks--anything curious
may become a fetich. Fetichism, then, is a religious means, not a philosophic or mythologic
state. Such are the supreme gods of the savage, and such the institutions which belong to their
theism. But they have many other inferior gods. Mountains, hills, valleys, and great rocks
have their own special deities--invisible spirits--and lakes, rivers, and springs are the homes
of spirits. But all these have animal forms when in proper personæ. Yet some of the medicine-spirits
can transform themselves, and work magic as do medicine-men. The heavenly bodies are either
created personages or ancient men or animals translated to the sky. And, last, we find that
ancestors are worshipped as gods.

Among all the tribes of North America with which we are acquainted tutelarism prevails. Every
tribe and every clan has its own protecting god, and every individual has his my god. It is
a curious fact that every Indian seeks to conceal the knowledge of his my god from all other
persons, for he fears that, if his enemy should know of his tutelar deity, he might by extraordinary
magic succeed in estranging him, and be able to compass his destruction through his own god.

In this summary characterization of zoötheism, I have necessarily systematized my statements.
This, of course, could not be done by the savage himself. He could give you its particulars,
but could not group those particulars in any logical way. He does not recognize any system,
but talks indiscriminately, now of one, now of another god, and with him the whole theory as
a system is vague and shadowy, but its particulars are vividly before his mind, and the certainty
with which he entertains his opinions leaves no room to doubt his sincerity.

But there is yet another phase of theism discovered. Sometimes a particular mountain, or hill,
or some great rock, some waterfall, some lake, or some spring receives special worship, and
is itself believed to be a deity. This seems to be a relic of hecastotheism. Fetichism, also,
seems to have come from that lower grade, and all the minor deities, the spirits of mountains
and hills and forest, seem to have been derived from that same stage, but with this development,
that the things themselves are not worshipped, but their essential spirits.

From zoötheism, as described, to physitheism the way is long. Gradually, in the progress of
philosophy, animal gods are dethroned and become inferior gods or are forgotten; and gradually
the gods of the firmament--the sun, the moon, the stars--are advanced to supremacy; the clouds,
the storms, the winds, day and night, dawn and gloaming, the sky, the earth, the sea, and all
the various phases of nature perceived by the barbaric mind, are personified and deified and
exalted to a supremacy coordinate with the firmament gods; and all the gods of the lower stage
that remain--animals, demons, and all men--belong to inferior tribes. The gods of the sky--the
shining ones, those that soar on bright wings, those that are clothed in gorgeous colors, those
that came from we know not where, those that vanish to the unknown--are the supreme gods. We
always find these gods organized in great tribes, with mighty chieftains who fight in great
combats or lead their hosts in battle, and return with much booty. Such is the theism of ancient
Mexico, such the theism of the Northland, and such the theism discovered among the ancient Aryans.

From this stage to psychotheism the way is long, for evolution is slow. Gradually men come
to differentiate more carefully between good and evil, and the ethic character of their gods
becomes the subject of consideration, and the good gods grow in virtue, and the bad gods grow
in vice. Their identity with physical objects and phenomena is gradually lost. The different
phases or conditions of the same object or phenomenon are severed, and each is personified.
The bad gods are banished to underground homes, or live in concealment, from which they issue
on their expeditions of evil. Still, all powers exist in these gods, and all things were established
by them. With the growth of their moral qualities no physical powers are lost, and the sports
of the physical bodies and phenomena become demons, subordinate to the great gods who preside
over nature and human institutions.

We find, also, that these superior gods are organized in societies. I have said the Norse mythology
was in a transition state from physitheism to psychotheism. The Asas, or gods, lived in Asgard,
a mythic communal village, with its Thing or Council, the very counterpart of the communal
village of Iceland. Olympus was a Greek city.

Still further in the study of mythologic philosophy we see that more and more supremacy falls
into the hands of the few, until monotheism is established on the plan of the empire. Then
all of the inferior deities whose characters are pure become ministering angels, and the inferior
deities whose characters are evil become devils, and the differentiation of good and evil is
perfected in the gulf between heaven and hell. In all this time from zoötheism to monotheism,
ancientism becomes more ancient, and the times and dynasties are multiplied. Spiritism is more
clearly defined, and spirits become eternal; mythologic tales are codified, and sacred books
are written; divination for the result of amorous intrigue has become the prophecy of immortality,
and thaumaturgics is formulated as the omnipresent, the omnipotent, the omniscient--the infinite.

Time has failed me to tell of the evolution of idolatry from fetichism, priestcraft from sorcery,
and of their overthrow by the doctrines that were uttered by that voice on the Mount. Religion,
that was fetichism and ecstasism and sorcery, is now the yearning for something better, something
purer, and the means by which this highest state for humanity may be reached, the ideal worship
of the highest monotheism, is "in spirit and in truth." The steps are long from Cĭn-aú-äv,
the ancient of wolves, by Zeus, the ancient of skies, to Jehovah, the "Ancient of Days."

                         MYTHIC TALES.

In every Indian tribe there is a great body of story lore--tales purporting to be the sayings
and doings, the history, of the gods. Every tribe has one or more persons skilled in the relation
of these stories--preachers. The long winter evenings are set apart for this purpose. Then
the men and women, the boys and girls, gather about the camp-fire to listen to the history
of the ancients, to a chapter in the unwritten bible of savagery. Such a scene is of the deepest
interest. A camp-fire of blazing pine or sage boughs illumines a group of dusky faces intent
with expectation, and the old man begins his story, talking and acting; the elders receiving
his words with reverence, while the younger persons are played upon by the actor until they
shiver with fear or dance with delight. An Indian is a great actor. The conditions of Indian
life train them in natural sign language. Among the two hundred and fifty or three hundred
thousand Indians in the United States, there are scores of languages, so that often a language
is spoken by only a few hundred or a few score of people; and as a means of communication between
tribes speaking different languages, a sign language has grown up, so that an Indian is able
to talk all over--with the features of his face, his hands and feet, the muscles of his body;
and thus a skillful preacher talks and acts; and, inspired by a theme which treats of the gods,
he sways his savage audience at will. And ever as he tells his story he points a moral--the
mythology, theology, religion, history, and all human duties are taught. This preaching is
one of the most important institutions of savagery. The whole body of myths current in a tribe
is the sum total of their lore--their philosophy, their miraculous history, their authority
for their governmental institutions, their social institutions, their habits and customs. It
is their unwritten bible.

    THE CĬN-AÚ-ÄV BROTHERS DISCUSS MATTERS OF IMPORTANCE TO THE PEOPLE.

Once upon a time the Cĭn-aú-äv brothers met to consult about the destiny of the U-ĭn-ká-rĕts.
At this meeting the younger said: "Brother, how shall these people obtain their food? Let us
devise some good plan for them. I was thinking about it all night, but could not see what would
be best, and when the dawn came into the sky I went to a mountain and sat on its summit, and
thought a long time; and now I can tell you a good plan by which they can live. Listen to your
younger brother. Look at these pine trees; their nuts are sweet; and there is the us, very
rich; and there is the apple of the cactus, full of juice; on the plain you see the sunflower,
bearing many seeds--they will be good for the nation. Let them have all these things for their
food, and when they have gathered a store they shall put them in the ground, or hide them in
the rocks, and when they return they shall find abundance, and having taken of them as they
may need, shall go on, and yet when they return a second time there shall still be plenty;
and though they return many times, as long as they live the store shall never fail; and thus
they will be supplied with abundance of food without toil." "Not so," said the elder brother,
"for then will the people, idle and worthless, and having no labor to perform, engage in quarrels,
and fighting will ensue, and they will destroy each other, and the people will be lost to the
earth; they must work for all they receive." Then the younger brother answered not, but went
away sorrowing.

The next day he met the elder brother and accosted him thus: "Brother, your words were wise;
let the U-ĭn-ká-rĕts work for their food. But how shall they be furnished with honey-dew? I
have thought all night about this, and when the dawn came into the sky I sat on the summit
of the mountain and did think, and now I will tell you how to give them honey-dew: Let it fall
like a great snow upon the rocks, and the women shall go early in the morning and gather all
they may desire, and they shall be glad." "No," replied the elder brother, "it will not be
good, my little brother, for them to have much and find it without toil; for they will deem
it of no more value than dung, and what we give them for their pleasure will only be wasted.
In the night it shall fall in small drops on the reeds, which they shall gather and beat with
clubs, and then will it taste very sweet, and having but little they will prize it the more."
And the younger brother went away sorrowing, but returned the next day and said: "My brother,
your words are wise; let the women gather the honey-dew with much toil, by beating the reeds
with flails. Brother, when a man or a woman, or a boy or a girl, or a little one dies, where
shall he go? I have thought all night about this, and when the dawn came into the sky I sat
on the top of the mountain and did think. Let me tell you what to do: When a man dies, send
him back when the morning returns, and then will all his friends rejoice." "Not so," said the
elder; "the dead shall return no more." The little brother answered him not, but, bending his
head in sorrow, went away.

One day the younger Cĭn-aú-äv was walking in the forest, and saw his brother's son at play,
and taking an arrow from his quiver slew the boy, and when he returned he did not mention what
he had done. The father supposed that his boy was lost, and wandered around in the woods for
many days, and at last found the dead child, and mourned his loss for a long time.

One day the younger Cĭn-aú-äv said to the elder, "You made the law that the dead should never
return. I am glad that you were the first to suffer." Then the elder knew that the younger
had killed his child, and he was very angry and sought to destroy him, and as his wrath increased
the earth rocked, subterraneous groanings were heard, darkness came on, fierce storms raged,
lightning flashed, thunder reverberated through the heavens, and the younger brother fled in
great terror to his father, Ta-vwots', for protection.

                          ORIGIN OF THE ECHO.

I'-o-wi (the turtle dove) was gathering seeds in the valley, and her little babe slept. Wearied
with carrying it on her back, she laid it under the tĭ-hó-pĭ (sage bush) in care of its sister,
O-hó-tcu (the summer yellow bird). Engaged in her labors, the mother wandered away to a distance,
when a tsó-a-vwĭts (a witch) came and said to the little girl, "Is that your brother?" and
O-hó-tcu answered, "This is my sister," for she had heard that witches preferred to steal boys,
and did not care for girls. Then the tsó-a-vwĭts was angry and chided her, saying that it was
very naughty for girls to lie; and she put on a strange and horrid appearance, so that O-hó-tcu
was stupefied with fright; then the tsó-a-vwĭts ran away with the boy, carrying him, to her
home on a distant mountain. Then she laid him down on the ground, and, taking hold of his right
foot, stretched the baby's leg until it was as long as that of a man, and she did the same
to the other leg; then his body was elongated; she stretched his arms, and, behold, the baby
was as large as a man. And the tsó-a-vwĭts married him and had a husband, which she had long
desired; but, though he had the body of a man, he had the heart of a babe, and knew no better
than to marry a witch.

Now, when I'-o-wi returned and found not her babe under the tĭ-hó-pĭ, but learned from O-hó-tcu
that it had been stolen by a tsó-a-vwĭts, she was very angry, and punished her daughter very
severely. Then she went in search of the babe for a long time, mourning as she went, and crying
and still crying, refusing to be comforted, though all her friends joined her in the search,
and promised to revenge her wrongs.

Chief among her friends was her brother, Kwi'-na, (the eagle), who traveled far and wide over
all the land, until one day he heard a strange noise, and coming near he saw the tsó-a-vwĭts
and U'-ja (the sage cock), her husband, but he did not know that this large man was indeed
the little boy who had been stolen. Yet he returned and related to I'-o-wi what he had seen,
who said: "If that is indeed my boy, he will know my voice." So the mother came near to where
the tsó-a-vwĭts and U'-ja were living, and climbed into a cedar tree, and mourned and cried
continually. Kwi'-na placed himself near by on another tree to observe what effect the voice
of the mother would have on U'-ja, the tsó-a-vwĭts' husband. When he heard the cry of his mother,
U'-ja knew the voice, and said to the tsó-a-vwĭts, "I hear my mother, I hear my mother, I hear
my mother," but she laughed at him, and persuaded him to hide.

Now, the tsó-a-vwĭts had taught U'-ja to hunt, and a short time before he had killed a mountain
sheep, which was lying in camp. The witch emptied the contents of the stomach, and with her
husband took refuge within; for she said to herself, "Surely, I'-o-wi will never look in the
paunch of a mountain sheep for my husband." In this retreat they were safe for a long time,
so that they who were searching were sorely puzzled at the strange disappearance. At last Kwi'-na
said, "They are hid somewhere in the ground, maybe, or under the rocks; after a long time they
will be very hungry and will search for food; I will put some in a tree so as to tempt them."
So he killed a rabbit and put it on the top of a tall pine, from which he trimmed the branches
and peeled the bark, so that it would be very difficult to climb; and he said, "When these
hungry people come out they will try to climb that tree for food, and it will take much time,
and while the tsó-a-vwĭts is thus engaged we will carry U'-ja away." So they watched some days,
until the tsó-a-vwĭts was very hungry, and her baby-hearted husband cried for food; and she
came out from their hiding place and sought for something to eat. The odor of the meat placed
on the tree came to her nostrils, and she saw where it was and tried to climb up, but fell
back many times; and while so doing Kwi'-na, who had been sitting on a rock near by and had
seen from where she came, ran to the paunch which had been their house, and taking the man
carried him away and laid him down under the very same tĭ-hó-pĭ from which he had been stolen;
and behold! he was the same beautiful little babe that I'-o-wi had lost.

And Kwi'-na went off into the sky and brought back a storm, and caused the wind to blow, and
the rain to beat upon the ground, so that his tracks were covered, and the tsó-a-vwĭts could
not follow him; but she saw lying upon the ground near by some eagle feathers, and knew well
who it was that had deprived her of her husband, and she said to herself, "Well, I know Kwi'-na
is the brother of I'-o-wi; he is a great warrior and a terrible man; I will go to To-go'-a
(the rattlesnake), my grandfather, who will protect me and kill my enemies."

To-go'-a was enjoying his midday sleep on a rock, and as the tsó-a-vwĭts came near her grandfather
awoke and called out to her, "Go back, go back; you are not wanted here; go back!" But she
came on begging his protection; and while they were still parleying they heard Kwi'-na coming,
and To-go'-a said, "Hide, hide!" But she knew not where to hide, and he opened his mouth and
the tsó-a-vwĭts crawled into his stomach. This made To-go'-a very sick and he entreated her
to crawl out, but she refused, for she was in great fear. Then he tried to throw her up, but
could not, and he was sick nigh unto death. At last, in his terrible retchings, he crawled
out of his own skin, and left the tsó-a-vwĭts in it, and she, imprisoned there, rolled about
and hid in the rocks. When Kwi'-na came near he shouted, "Where are you, old tsó-a-vwĭts? where
are you, old tsó-a-vwĭts?" She repeated his words in mockery.

Ever since that day witches have lived in snake skins, and hide among the rocks, and take great
delight in repeating the words of passers by.

The white man, who has lost the history of these ancient people, calls these mocking cries
of witches domiciliated in snake skins "echoes," but the Indians know the voices of the old hags.

This is the origin of the echo.

                          THE SO'-KÛS WAI'-ÛN-ÄTS.

The conquerers buried the maidens by the shores of the lake; but Tûm-pwĭ-nai'-ro-gwĭ-nûmp was
left to rot, and his bones to bleach on the sands, as he had left Sĭ-kor'.

                   TA-VWOTS' HAS A FIGHT WITH THE SUN.

Ta-vwots', the little rabbit, was wont to lie with his back to the sun when he slept. One day
he thus slept in camp while his children played around him. After a time they saw that his
back was smoking, and they cried out "What is the matter with your back, father?" Startled
from his sleep, he demanded to know the cause of the uproar. "Your back is covered with sores
and full of holes," they replied. Then Ta-vwots' was very angry, for he knew that Ta'-vĭ, the
sun, had burned him; and he sat down by the fire for a long time in solemn mood, pondering
on the injury and insult he had received. At last rising to his feet, he said, "My children
I must go and make war upon Ta'-vĭ." And straightway he departed.

Now his camp was in the valley of the Mo-a-pa.[1] On his journey he came to a hill, and standing
on its summit he saw in a valley to the east a beautiful stretch of verdure, and he greatly
marveled at the sight and desired to know what it was. On going down to the valley he found
a corn-field, something he had never before seen, and the ears were ready for roasting. When
he examined them, he saw that they were covered with beautiful hair, and he was much astonished.
Then he opened the husk and found within soft white grains of corn, which he tasted. Then he
knew that it was corn and good to eat. Plucking his arms full he carried them away, roasted
them on a fire, and ate until he was filled.

Now, when he had done all this, he reflected that he had been stealing, and he was afraid;
so he dug a hole in which to hide himself.

Cĭn-au'-äv was the owner of this field, and when he walked through and saw that his corn had
been stolen, he was exceedingly wroth, and said, "I will slay this thief Ta-vwots'; I will
kill him, I will kill him." And straightway he called his warriors to him and made search for
the thief, but could not find him, for he was hid in the ground. After a long time they discovered
the hole and tried to shoot Ta-vwots' as he was standing in the entrance, but he blew their
arrows back. This made Cĭn-au'-äv's people very angry and they shot many arrows, but Ta-vwots''
breath as a warder, against them all. Then, with one accord, they ran to snatch him up with
their hands, but, all in confusion, they only caught each others fists, for with agile steps
Ta-vwots' dodged into his retreat. Then they began to dig, and said they would drag him out.
And they labored with great energy, all the time taunting him with shouts and jeers. But Ta-vwots'
had a secret passage from the main chamber of his retreat which opened by a hole above the
rock overhanging the entrance where they were at work.

    [1] A stream in Southeastern Nevada.

When they had proceeded with this digging until they were quite under ground, Ta-vwots', standing
on the rock above, hurled the magical ball which he was accustomed to carry with him, and striking
the ground above the diggers, it caved the earth in, and they were all buried. "Aha," said
he, "why do you wish to hinder me on my way to kill the Sun? A'-nier ti-tĭk'-a-nûmp kwaik-ai'-gar"
(fighting is my eating tool I say; that's so!), and he proceeded on his way musing. "I have
started out to kill; vengeance is my work; every one I meet will be an enemy. It is well; no
one shall escape my wrath."

The next day he saw two men making arrow-heads of hot rocks, and drawing near he observed their
work for a time from a position where he could not be seen. Then stepping forth, he said: "Let
me help you"; and when the rocks were on the fire again and were hot to redness he said: "Hot
rocks will not burn me." And they laughed at him. "May be you would have us believe that you
are a ghost?" "I am not a ghost," said he, "but I am a better man than you are. Hold me on
these hot rocks, and if I do not burn you must let me do the same to you." To this they readily
agreed, and when they had tried to burn him on the rocks, with his magic breath he kept them
away at a distance so slight they could not see but that the rocks did really touch him. When
they perceived that he was not burned they were greatly amazed and trembled with fear. But
having made the promise that he should treat them in like manner, they submitted themselves
to the torture, and the hot rocks burned them until with great cries they struggled to get
free but unrelenting Ta-vwots' held them until the rocks had burned through their flesh into
their entrails, and so they died. "Aha," said Ta-vwots', "lie there until you can get up again.
And sounding the war-whoop he proceeded on his way.

The next day he came to where two women were gathering berries in baskets, and when he sat
down they brought him some of the fruit and placed it before him. He saw there were many leaves
and thorns among the berries, and he said, "Blow these leaves and thorns into my eyes," and
they did so, hoping to blind him; but with his magic breath he kept them away, so that they
did not hurt him.

Then the women averred that he was a ghost. "I am no ghost," said he, "but a common person;
do you not know that leaves and thorns cannot hurt the eye? Let me show you;" and they consented
and were made blind. Then Ta-vwots' slew them with his pa-rûm'-o-kwi. "Aha," said he, "you
are caught with your own chaff. I am on my way to kill the Sun. This is good practice. I must
learn how. "I will throw it up to you," said he; "come to the brink and catch it." When they
had done so, he threw it up so that they could not quite reach it, and he threw it in this
way many times, until, in their eagerness to secure it, they all crowded too near the brink,
fell, and were killed. "Aha," said he, "you were killed by your own eagerness. I am on my way
to kill the Sun. A'-nier ti-tĭk'-a-nûmp kaiwk-ai'-gar." And sounding the war-whoop he passed on.

The following day he saw two women fashioning water-jugs, which are made of willow-ware like
baskets and afterwards lined with pitch. When afar off he could hear them converse, for he
had a wonderful ear. "Here comes that bad Ta-vwots'," said they; "how shall we destroy him?"
When he came near, he said, "What was that you were saying when I came up?" "Oh, we were only
saying, 'here comes our grandson,'"[2] said they. "Is that all?" replied Ta-vwots', and looking
around, he said, "Let me get into your water-jug"; and they allowed him to do so. "Now braid
the neck." This they did, making the neck very small; then they laughed with great glee, for
they supposed he was entrapped. But with his magic breath he burst the jug, and stood up before
them; and they exclaimed, "You must be a ghost!" but he answered, "I am no ghost. Do you not
know that jugs were made to hold water, but cannot hold men and women?" At this they wondered
greatly, and said he was wise. Then he proposed to put them in jugs in the same manner, in
order to demonstrate to them the truth of what he had said; and they consented. When he had
made the necks of the jugs and filled them with pitch, he said, "Now, jump out," but they could
not. It was now his turn to deride; so he rolled them about and laughed greatly, while their
half-stifled screams rent the air. When he had sported with them in this way until he was tired,
he killed them with his magical ball. "Aha," said he, "you are bottled in your own jugs. I
am on my way to kill the Sun; in good time I shall learn how. When the great slayer came to
Kwi'-ats he said, "Don't fear, my great friend; I am not the man from whom to hide. Could a
little fellow like me kill so many people?" And the bear was assured. "Let me help you dig,"
said Ta-vwots', that we may hide together, for I also am fleeing from the great destroyer.
So they made a den deep in the ground, with its entrance concealed by a great rock. Now, Ta-vwots'
secretly made a private passage from the den out to the side of the mountain, and when the
work was completed the two went out together to the hill-top to watch for the coming of the
enemy. Soon Ta-vwots' pretended that he saw him coming, and they ran in great haste to the
den. The little one outran the greater, and going into the den, hastened out again through
his secret passage.

    [2] This is a very common term of endearment used by elder to younger
    persons.

When Kwi'-ats entered he looked about, and not seeing his little friend he searched for him
for some time, and still not finding him, he supposed that he must have passed him on the way,
and went out again to see if he had stopped or been killed. By this time Ta-vwots' had perched
himself on the rock at the entrance of the den, and when the head of the bear protruded through
the hole below he hurled his pa-rûm'-o-kwi and killed him. "Aha," said Ta-vwots', "I greatly
feared this renowned warrior, but now he is dead in his own den.

The next day he met Ku-mi'-a-pöts, the tarantula. Now this knowing personage had heard of the
fame of Ta-vwots', and determined to outwit him. He was possessed of a club with such properties
that, although it was a deadly weapon when used against others, it could not be made to hurt
himself, though wielded by a powerful arm.

As Ta-vwots' came near, Ku-mi'-a-pöts complained of having a headache; moaning and groaning,
he said there was an u-nu'-pĭts, or little evil spirit, in his head, and he asked Ta-vwots'
to take the club and beat it out. Ta-vwots' obeyed, and struck with all his power, and wondered
that Ku-mi'-a-pöts was not killed; but he urged Ta-vwots' to strike harder. At last Ta-vwots'
understood the nature of the club, and guessed the wiles of Ku-mi'-a-pöts, and raising the
weapon as if to strike again, he dexterously substituted his magic ball and slew him. "Aha,"
said he, "that is a blow of your own seeking, Ku-mi'-a-pöts. Now to come to the summit of this
cliff it is necessary to climb a mountain, and Ta-vwots' could see three gaps or notches in
the mountain, and he went up into the one on the left; and he demanded to know of all the trees
which where standing by of what use they were. Each one in turn praised its own qualities,
the chief of which in every case was its value as fuel.[3] Ta-vwots' shook his head and went
into the center gap and had another conversation with the trees, receiving the same answer.
Finally he went into the third gap--that on the right. After he had questioned all the trees
and bushes, he came at last to a little one called yu'-i-nump, which modestly said it had no
use, that it was not even fit for fuel. "Good," said Ta-vwots', and under it he lay down to sleep.

    [3] Several times I have heard this story, and invariably the dialogues
    held by Ta-vwots' with the trees are long and tedious, though, the
    trees evince some skill in their own praise.

When the dawn came into the sky Ta-vwots' arose and stood on the brink overhanging the abyss
from which the Sun was about to rise. The instant it appeared he hurled his pa-rûm'-o-kwi,
and, striking it full in the face, shattered it into innumerable fragments, and these fragments
were scattered over all the world and kindled a great conflagration. Ta-vwots' ran and crept
under the yu'-i-nump to obtain protection. At last the fire waxed very hot over all the world,
and soon Ta-vwots began to suffer and tried to ran away, but as he ran his toes were burned
off, and then slowly, inch by inch, his legs, and then his body, so that he walked on his hands,
and these were burned, and he walked on the stumps of his arms, and these were burned, until
there was nothing left but his head. And now, having no other means of progression, his head
rolled along the ground until his eyes, which were much swollen, burst by striking against
a rock, and the tears gushed out in a great flood which spread out over all the land and extinguished
the conflagration.

The Uinta Utes add something more to this story, namely, that the flood from his eyes bore
out new seeds, which were scattered over all the world. The Ute name for seed is the same as
for eye.

Those animals which are considered as the descendants of Ta-vwots' are characterized by a brown
patch back of the neck and shoulders, which is attributed to the singeing received by him in
the great fire.

The following apothegms are derived from this story:

"You are buried in the hole which you dug for yourself."

"When you go to war every one you meet is an enemy; kill all."

"You were caught with your own chaff."

"Don't get so anxious that you kill yourself."

"You are bottled in your own jugs."

"He is dead in his own den."

"That is a blow of your own seeking."

Some UTF-8 characters have been downgraded to their Latin-1 equivalents; for the accurate representation
please see the HTML or UTF-8 file.

                        PRINTER'S ERRORS FIXED:

"dext" changed to "next"--The next day, being without food... "decedents" changed to "descendants"--The
descendants of these people... "philosopic" changed to "philosophic"--...great philosophic question

