Now George's mother was very handy at the spinning wheel and loom. He remembers how the bunch
of cotton was combed in preparation for spinning. Cards with teeth were arranged on the spinning
wheel and the mass of cotton was combed through it to separate it into fibers. The fibers were
rolled between the fingers and then put upon the spinning wheel to be spun into thread. As
it was spun, it was wound upon spools. After the spools were filled they were taken off and
put on the loom. Threads were strung across the loom some above others and the shuttle running
back and forth through the threads would make cloth. All that was done by hand power. A person
working at the loom regularly soon became proficient and George's mother was one who bore the
name of being a very good weaver of cloth. Most of the clothes the family wore were home spun.

Underwear and sleeping garments were made of the natural colored homespun cloth. When colored
cloth was wanted a dye was made to dip them in so as to get the desired color. Dyes were made
by soaking red oak bark in water. Another was made of elder berries and when a real blood red
was desired polk berries were used. Polk berries made a blood red dye and was considered very
beautiful. Walnut hulls were used to make brown dye and it was lasting in its effects.

In making dye hold its color, the cloth and dye were boiled together. After it had "taken"
well, the cloth was removed from the dye and rinsed well, the rinse water was salted so as
to set the color.

Tubs for washing clothes and bathing purposes were made of wood. Some were made from barrels
out in tew parts. In cutting a stay was left longer on each side and holes were cut length
wise in it so there would be sufficient room for all of the fingers to fit. That was for lifting
the tub about.

A very interesting side of George's life was depicted in his statement of the longevity of
his innocence. We may call it ignorance but it seems to be more innocence when compared to
the incident of Adam and Eve as told in the Holy Bible in the book of Genesis. He was 33 years
of age before he knew he was a grown man, or how life was given humans. In plain words he did
not know where babies came from, nor how they were bred.

Whenever George's mother was expecting to be confined with a baby's birth, his father would
say to all the children together, large and small alike, "your mother has gone to New York,
Baltimore, Buffalo" or any place he would think of at the time. There was an upstairs room
in their home and she would stay there six weeks. She would go up as soon as signs of the coming
child would present themselves. A midwife came, cooked three meals a day, fed the children
and helped keep the place in order.

In older times people taught their children to respect older persons. They obeyed everyone
older than themselves. The large children were just as obedient as the small ones so that it
was not hard to maintain peace and order within any home.

The midwife in this case simply told all of the children that she did not want any of them
to go upstairs, as she had important papers spread out all over the floor and did not want
them disturbed. No questions were asked, she was obeyed.

George does not remember having heard a single cry the whole time they were being born in that
upper room, and he said many a baby was born there. Decorum reigned throughout the household
for six weeks or until their mother was ready to come down. When the time was up for mother
to come down, his father would casually say, "children your ma is coming home today and what
do you recon, someone has given her another baby." The children would say, almost in concert,
"what you say pa, is it a boy or girl?" He would tell them which it was and nothing more was
said nor any further inquiry made into the happening.

The term "broke her leg" was used to convey the meaning of pregnancy. George relates how his
mother told him and his sister not to have any thing more to do with Mary Jones, "cause she
done broke her leg." George said "Ma taint nothin matter wid Mary; I see her every day when
the bell rings for 12; she works across the street from Pa's shop and she and me sets on the
steps and talks till time fur her to go back to work." His mother said, "dont spute me George,
I know she is broke her leg and I want yall to stay way frum her." George said, "Ma I aint
sputing you, jes somebody done misinform you dats all. She aint got no broke leg, she walks
as good as me." His mother said "then I'm a lie." George quickly replied, "no ma, you aint
no lie, but somebody done told you wrong."

Nothing was said further on the question of Mary Jones until that same evening when Isaac Pretty
came home from the shop. The mother took him aside and told him of how she had been disputed
and called a lie by George and added that she wanted George whipped for it.

"Come here George," came a commanding voice shortly after the mother and father had been in
conference. George obeyed and his father took him apart from the family and locked himself
and George in a room. He said "George I know I haven't done right by not telling you, you are
grown. You are 33 years old now and I want to tell you some things you should know." George
was all eyes and ears, for he had been told when previously asked how old he was, "I'll tell
you when you get grown." That was all he had heard from his parents for years and he was just
waiting for him to tell him. His father told him how babies were born and about his mother
confining herself in the upper room all the different times when she expected babies. He told
him that his mother had never been out of town to Boston or Baltimore on any of the past occasions.
In fact he told George all he knew to tell him.

Now the startling thing about it all is that when he had finished giving the information about
babies he said, "Now George your mother told me that you called her a lie today." George at
once said, "Pa I didn't call her a lie, I jes told someone had misinform her 'bout Mary, that
she aint got her leg broke cause I see her every day." His father said "I know 'taint right
to whip you fur that George but your Ma said she wanted me to whip you and I'll have to do
it." That settled it. George received his first lesson in sex and received the last flogging
his father ever gave him. He was now grown and could take his place as a man.

Afterwards the mother took all her daughters aside and told them the same as Isaac had told
George. (That is she told the grown girls about sex life.)

George and his older sister talked the whole plan over after they got a chance and decided
that since they were now grown, they did not have to give their earnings to their parents any
longer. They decided to move into one of their father's houses on the place and furnish it
up. They were making right good money considering the times related George, and with both of
them pulling together they soon would have sufficient money saved up to buy a piece of land
and start out on a plot of ground of their own.

George told his father their plans. His father asked how much money he had. He told him 200
dollars or more. His father said "you've saved 200 dollars out of what I've allowed you?" George
answered in the affirmative. His father said, "do you know how far that will go?" George said
he did not, his father answered "Not far my boy."

A few days after the conversation, Isaac Pretty furnished one of his houses with the necessary
equipment and let George and his sister live there. They had their own bed-rooms and each bought
some food. The girl and George both cooked the meals and did the main thing they had set out
to do, letting nothing stand in the way of their progress.

When a few months had passed both children had accumulated a nice sum of money. George was
prepared to marry and take care of a wife. His sister Eliza, who lived with him had saved almost
as much money and when she married she was an asset to the man of her choice rather than a
liability.

George had close contact with nature in his early life. The close contact with his mother for
33 years had done something for George which was lasting as well as beneficial. She was a close
adherent to nature. She believed in and knew the roots and herbs which cured bodily ailments.
This was handed down to her children and George Pretty claims to know every root and herb in
the woods. He can identify each as they are presented to him, says he.

Doctors were never used by the ordinary family when George was growing up and during his stay
at Altoona. He was called in to sew up a cut place which was too much for home treatment. He
was also called in to probe for a bullet but for fever or colds or even child-birth he was
considered an unnecessary expense.

Herbs and roots were widely utilized in olden days and during slavery and early reconstruction.
The old slave has brought his practices to this era and he is often found gathering and using
them upon his friends and neighbors.

George Pretty knows that black snake root is good for blood trouble for he has used it on many
a person with safety and surety. Sasafras tea is good for colds; golden rod tea for fever;
fig leaves for thrash; red oak bark for douche; slippery elm for fever and female complaint
(when bark is inserted in the vagina); catnip tea is good for new born babies; sage tea is
good for painful menstruation or slackened flow; fig leaves bruised and applied to the forehead
for fever are very affective; they are also good to draw boils to a head; okra blossoms when
dried are good for sores (the dried blossoms are soaked in water and applied to the sore and
bound with clean old linen cloth); red shank is good for a number of diseases; missing link
root is for colds and asthma. George said this is a sure cure for asthma. Fever grass is a
purgative when taken in the form of a tea. The blades are steeped in hot water and a tea made.
Fever grass is a wide blade grass growing straighter than most grass. It has a blue flower
and is found growing wild around many places in Florida. It is plentiful in certain parts of
Palatka, Florida.

Riding vehicles in early days were called buggies. The first one George remembers was the go
cart. It had two wheels and was without a top. Only two people could ride in a go cart. The
equilibrium was kept by buckling the harness over and under the horse's belly. The strap which
ran under the belly was called the belly girt. There was a side strap which ran along the horse's
side and the belly girt was fastened to this. Loops were put to vantage points on the side
strap and through these the shafts of the cart were run. The strap going under and over the
horse kept the cart from going too far forward or backward.

During George's early life plows looked very much like they do today. They had wooden handles
but the part which turned the ground was made of point iron, (he could not describe point iron.)
Plows were not made of cast iron or steel as they are today.

Two kinds of plows were used so far as George remembers. One was called the skooter plow and
the other the turn plow. The skooter plow he describes as one which broke the ground up which
had been previously planted. When the earth needed loosening up to make more fit for planting,
this plow was used over the earth, leaving it rather smooth and light. The turn plow was used
to turn the ground completely over. Where grass and weeds had grown, the earth needed turning
over so as to thoroughly uproot the weeds and grass. The ground was usually left a while so
that the weeds could die and rot and then men with hoes would go over the ground and make it
ready for planting.

When freedom came to Negroes in the slave territory, George remembers that Sherman's army drilled
a long time after the Civil War had ended. He saw them right in Pennsylvania. He was much impressed
with their blue suits and brass buttons and which fitted them so well. Some of the men wore
suits with braid on them and they supposedly were the officers of the outfit. Negro and white
men were in the same companies he saw and all were manly and walking proudly.

As George was fifteen years of age when freedom came much of which he related happened after
Emancipation. He being out of the slave territory did not have as much contact with the slaves,
but he lived around his grand parents who had been slaves in the southern part of the state.
After slavery they moved up to Altoona, with George's parents and brought much in the way of
customs to George.

Grandfather McCoy and also grandfather Pretty told of many experiences that they went through
during their enslavement. The Negro and white over-seer was much in evidence down there and
buying and selling of children from their parents seemed to have left a sad memory with George.

Isaac Pretty's family was large. He had seven girls and seven boys, George being the eldest.
George remembers how his heart would ache when his grandfather told of the children who were
torn from their mother's skirts and sold, never to see their parents again. He went into deep
thought over how he would have hated to have been separated from his mother and father to say
nothing of leaving his brothers and sisters. They were brought up to love each other and the
thought of breaking the family ties seemed to him very cruel.

When George was told that he was grown as formerly related, he saved his money and when the
great earth quake in Charleston occured he went down there to see what it had done to the place.
Before that time in 1882 he remembered having seen the first block of ice. When he got there,
the Charleston people had been making ice for a few years. It was about that time that George
saw the first pair of bed springs.

George remained in Pennsylvania and other states farther north for a long time after freedom.
His first trip to Florida was made in 1893. He came direct from Altoona, Pennsylvania, with
a white man whose name he has forgotten as he did not remain in the man's employ very long
after reaching the state.

Since that time he has farmed in and around different parts of Florida, but now he resides
at Tero Beach and Gifford, Florida. He makes regular trips to Palatka, being as much at home
there as in the cities on the East Coast.

George says that he has never had a doctor attend him in his life, neither while he was in
Altoona, nor since he has been in Florida. He claims to be able to identify any root or herb
that grows in the woods in the State of Florida having studied them constantly since his arrival
here. Before coming to this state he knew all the roots and herbs around Altoona and it still
acquainted with them as he makes regular visits there, since he moved away 43 years ago. (1)

George Pretty is a dark complexioned man; about five feet three inches in heighth; weighs about
135 pounds and looks to be much younger than he is. When asked how he had maintained his youth,
he said that living close to nature had done it together with his manner of living. He does
not dissipate, neither does he drink strong drink. He is a ready informant. Having heard that
only information of slavery was wanted, he volunteered information without any formality or
urging on the part of the writer. (1) (2)

REFERENCES

1. George Pretty, Vero Beach and Gifford, Florida

2.

The former slave was born at Dove City, South Carolina, on Jan. 28, 1846, of a half-breed Cherokee-and-Negro
mother and Anglo-Saxon father. Her father owned the plantation adjoining that of her master.

When she reached the adolescent age Anna was placed under the direct care of her mistress,
by whom she was given direct charge of the dining-room and entrusted with the keys to the provisions
and supplies of the household.

A kindred love grew between the slave girl and her mistress; she recalls that everywhere her
mistress went she was taken also. She was kept in 'the big house'. She was not given any education,
though, as some of the slaves on nearby plantations were.

Religion was not denied to the former slave and her fellows. Mrs. Abigail Dever[TR:?], her
owner, permitted the slaves to attend revival and other services. The slaves were allowed to
occupy the balcony of the church in Dove City, while the whites occupied the main floor. The
slaves were forbidden to sing, talk, or make any other sound, however, under penalty of severe
beatings.

Those of the slaves who 'felt the sperrit' during a service must keep silence until after the
service, when they could 'tell it to the deacon', a colored man who would listen to the confessions
or professions of religion of the slaves until late into the night. The Negro deacon would
relay his converts to the white minister of the church, who would meet them in the vestry room
at some specified time.

Some of the questions that would be asked at these meetings in the vestry room would be:

"What did you come up here for?"

"Because I got religion".

"How do you know you got religion?"

"Because I know my sins are forgive".

"How do you know your sins are forgiven?"

"Because I love Jesus and I love everybody".

"Do you want to be baptized?"

"Yes sir."

"Why do you want to be baptized?"

"Cause it will make me like Jesus wants me to be".

When several persons were 'ready', there would be a baptism in a nearby creek or river. After
this, slaves would be permitted to hold occasional servives of their own in the log house that
was sometimes used as a school.

Mrs. Scott remembers vividly the joy that she felt and other slaves expressed when first news
of their emancipation was brought to them. Both she and her mistress were fearful, she says;
her mistress because she did not know what she would do without her slaves, and Anna because
she thought the Union soldiers would harm Mrs. Dove. When the chief officer of the soldiers
came to the home of her mistress, she says, he demanded entrance in a gruff voice. Then he
saw a ring upon Mrs. Dove's finger and asked: "Where did you get this?" When told that the
ring belonged to her husband, who was dead, the officer turned to his soldiers and told them
that they should "get back; she's alright!"

Provisions intended for the Confederate armies were broken open by the Union soldiers and their
followers, and Anna's mother, to protect her master, organized groups of slaves to 'tote the
meat from the box cars and hide it in dugouts under the mistress' house'. This meat was later
divided between Negroes and whites.

A Provost Judge followed the advance of the army, and he obtained a list of all of the slaves
held by each master. Mrs. Dove gave her list to the official, who called each slave by name
and asked what that slave had done on the plantation. He asked, also, whether any payment had
been made to them since the Emancipation Proclamation had been signed, and when answered in
the negative told them that 'You are free now and must be paid for all of the work you have
done since the Proclamation was signed and that you will do in the future. Don't you work for
anybody without pay'.

The Provost Judge also told the slaves that they might leave if they liked, and Anna was among
those who left. She went to visit the husband of her mother in Charleston. With her mother
and five other children, Anna crossed rivers on log rafts and rode on trains to Charleston.

Elias Mumford was Anna's step-father in Charleston, and after spending a year there with him
the entire family joined a colonizing expedition to West Africa. There were 650 in the expedition,
and it left in 1867. Transportation was free.

The trip took several weeks, but finally the small ship landed at Grand Bassa. Mumford did
not like the place, however, and continued on to Monrovia, Liberia. He did not like Monrovia,
either, and tried several other ports before being told that he would have to get off, anyway.
This was at Harper Cape, W. Africa.

Here he almost immediately began an industry that was to prove lucrative. Oysters were 'large
as saucers', according to Anna, and while the family gathered these he would burn them and
extract lime from them. This he mixed with the native clay and made brick. In addition to his
brick-making Mumford cut trees for lumber, and with his own brick and lumber would construct
houses and structures. One such structure brought him $1100.00.

Another manner in which Mumford added to his growing wealth was through the cashing of checks
for the Missionaries of the section. Ordinarily they would have to send these back to the United
States to be cashed, and when he offered to cash them--at a discount--they eagerly utilized
the opportunity to save time; this was a convenience for them and more wealth for Mumford.

Anna found other things besides happiness in her eight years in Africa. There were death, sickness,
and pestilences. She mentions among the latter the African ants, some of which reached huge
proportions. Most dreaded were the Mission ants, which infested every house, building and structure.
Sometimes buildings had to be burned to get rid of them. The bite of these ants was so serious
that after sixty years Anna still exhibits places on her feet where the ants left their indelible
traces. Another of the ant pests was the Driver ant, so large, powerful and stubborn that even
bodies of water did not stop them. They would join themselves together above the surface of
the water and serve as bridges for the passage of the other ants. The Driver ants moved in
swarms and their approach could be seen at great distances. When they were seen to be coming
toward a settlement the natives would close their doors and windows and build fires around
their homes to avoid them. These fires had to be kept burning for weeks.

Eight and more persons died a day from the African fever during the early colonization attempts;
three of these in Anna's family alone were victims of it. It was generally believed that if
a victim of the fever became wet by dew he was sure to die.

After eight years Mumford and the remainder of his family returned to America, where the accrued
checks he possessed for cashing made him reasonably wealthy. Anna married Robert Scott and
moved to Jacksonville, where she has lived since.

At ninety-one she still occupies the little farm on the outskirts of Jacksonville that was
purchased with the money left to her out of her mother's inheritance (from the African transactions
of Mumford) and Robert's post-slavery savings, and in front of her picturesque little cottage
spins yarns for the neighbors of her early experiences. (1)

