Now, to the undergraduate mind of that day the Bird-in-Hand tavern was what the golden fleece
used to be to the Greeks,--a sort of shining, remote, miraculous thing, difficult though not
impossible to find, for which expeditions were fitted out. It was reported to be somewhere
in the direction of Quincy, and in one respect it resembled a ghost: you never saw a man who
had seen it himself; it was always his cousin, or his elder brother in '79. But for the successful
explorer a dinner and wines were waiting at the Bird-in-Hand more delicious than anything outside
of Paradise. You will realize, therefore, what a thing it was to have a room-mate who had attained.
If Billy had not been so dog-tired last night, he would have sat up and made John tell him
everything from beginning to end.

"They say the rum there is old Jamaica brought in slave-ships," said Bertie, reverently.

"I've heard he has white port of 1820," said Billy; "and claret and champagne."

Bertie looked out of the window. "This is the finest day there's been," said he. Then he looked
at his watch. It was twenty-five minutes before Oscar. Then he looked Billy hard in the eye.
"Have you any sand?" he inquired.

It was a challenge to Billy's manhood. "Sand!" he yelled, sitting up.

Both of them in an instant had left the table and bounded out of the house. "I'll meet you
at Pike's," said Billy to Bertie. "Make him give us the black gelding."

"Might as well bring our notes along," Bertie called after his rushing friend; "and get John
to tell you the road."

To see their haste, as the two fled in opposite directions upon their errands, you would have
supposed them under some crying call of obligation, or else to be escaping from justice.

Twenty minutes later they were seated behind the black gelding and bound on their journey in
search of the bird-in-Hand. Their notes in Philosophy 4 were stowed under the buggy-seat.

"Did Oscar see you?" Bertie inquired.

"Not he," cried Billy, joyously.

"Oscar will wonder," said Bertie; and he gave the black gelding a triumphant touch with the whip.

You see, it was Oscar that had made them run go; or, rather, it was Duty and Fate walking in
Oscar's displeasing likeness. Nothing easier, nothing more reasonable, than to see the tutor
and tell him they should not need him to-day. But that would have spoiled everything. They
did not know it, but deep in their childlike hearts was a delicious sense that in thus unaccountably
disappearing they had won a great game, had got away ahead of Duty and Fate. After all it did
bear some resemblance to an escape from justice. .

Could he have known this, Oscar would have felt more superior than ever. Punctually at the
hour agreed, ten o'clock he rapped at Billy's door and stood waiting, his leather wallet of
notes nipped safe between elbow and ribs. Then he knocked again. Then he tried the door, and
as it was open, he walked deferentially into the sitting room. Sonorous snores came from one
of the bedrooms. Oscar peered in and saw John; but he saw no Billy in the other bed. Then,
always deferential, he sat down in the sitting room and watched a couple of prettily striped
coats hanging in a half-open closet.

At that moment the black gelding was flirtatiously crossing the drawbridge over the Charles
on the Allston Road. The gelding knew the clank of those suspending chains and the slight unsteadiness
of the meeting halves of the bridge as well as it knew oats. But it could not enjoy its own
entirely premeditated surprise quite so much as Bertie and Billy were enjoying their entirely
unpremeditated flight from Oscar. The wind rippled on the water; down at the boat-house Smith
was helping some one embark in a single scull; they saw the green meadows toward Brighton;
their foreheads felt cool and unvexed, and each new minute had the savor of fresh forbidden fruit.

"How do we go?" said Bertie.

"I forgot I had a bet with John until I had waked him," said Billy. "He bet me five last night
I couldn't find it, and I took him. Of course, after that I had no right to ask him anything,
and he thought I was funny. He said I couldn't find out if the landlady's hair was her own.
I went him another five on that."

"How do you say we ought to go?" said Bertie, presently.

"Quincy, I'm sure."

They were now crossing the Albany tracks at Allston. "We're going to get there," said Bertie;
and he turned the black gelding toward Brookline and Jamaica Plain.

The enchanting day surrounded them. The suburban houses, even the suburban street-cars, seemed
part of one great universal plan of enjoyment. Pleasantness so radiated from the boys' faces
and from their general appearance of clean white flannel trousers and soft clean shirts of
pink and blue that a driver on a passing car leaned to look after them with a smile and a butcher
hailed them with loud brotherhood from his cart. They turned a corner, and from a long way
off came the sight of the tower of Memorial Hall. Plain above all intervening tenements and
foliage it rose. Over there beneath its shadow were examinations and Oscar. It caught Billy's
roving eye, and he nudged Bertie, pointing silently to it. "Ha, ha!" sang Bertie. And beneath
his light whip the gelding sprang forward into its stride.

The clocks of Massachusetts struck eleven. Oscar rose doubtfully from his chair in Billy's
study. Again he looked into Billy's bedroom and at the empty bed. Then he went for a moment
and watched the still forcibly sleeping John. He turned his eyes this way and that, and after
standing for a while moved quietly back to his chair and sat down with the leather wallet of
notes on his lap, his knees together, and his unblocked shoes touching. In due time the clocks
of Massachusetts struck noon.

In a meadow where a brown amber stream ran, lay Bertie and Billy on the grass. Their summer
coats were off, their belts loosened. They watched with eyes half closed the long water-weeds
moving gently as the current waved and twined them. The black gelding, brought along a farm
road and through a gate, waited at its ease in the field beside a stone wall. Now and then
it stretched and cropped a young leaf from a vine that grew over the wall, and now and then
the want wind brought down the fruit blossoms all over the meadow. They fell from the tree
where Bertie and Billy lay, and the boys brushed them from their faces. Not very far away was
Blue Hill, softly shining; and crows high up in the air came from it occasionally across here.

By one o'clock a change had come in Billy's room. Oscar during that hour had opened his satchel
of philosophy upon his lap and read his notes attentively. Being almost word perfect in many
parts of them, he now spent his unexpected leisure in acquiring accurately the language of
still further paragraphs. "The sharp line of demarcation which Descartes drew between consciousness
and the material world," whispered Oscar with satisfaction, and knew that if Descartes were
on the examination paper he could start with this and go on for nearly twenty lines before
he would have to use any words of his own. As he memorized, the chambermaid, who had come to
do the bedrooms three times already and had gone away again, now returned and no longer restrained
her indignation. "Get up Mr. Blake!" she vociferated to the sleeping John; "you ought to be
ashamed!" And she shook the bedstead. Thus John had come to rise and discover Oscar. The patient
tutor explained himself as John listened in his pyjamas.

"Why, I'm sorry," said he, "but I don't believe they'll get back very soon."

"They have gone away?" asked Oscar, sharply.

"Ah--yes," returned the reticent John. "An unexpected matter of importance."

"But, my dear sir, those gentlemen know nothing! Philosophy 4 is tomorrow, and they know nothing."

"They'll have to stand it, then," said John, with a grin.

"And my time. I am waiting here. I am engaged to teach them. I have been waiting here since
ten. They engaged me all day and this evening.

"I don't believe there's the slightest use in your waiting now, you know. They'll probably
let you know when they come back."

"Probably! But they have engaged my time. The girl knows I was here ready at ten. I call you
to witness that you found me waiting, ready at any time."

John in his pyjamas stared at Oscar. "Why, of course they'll pay you the whole thing," said
he, coldly; "stay here if you prefer." And he went into the bathroom and closed the door.

The tutor stood awhile, holding his notes and turning his little eyes this way and that. His
young days had been dedicated to getting the better of his neighbor, because otherwise his
neighbor would get the better of him. Oscar had never suspected the existence of boys like
John and Bertie and Billy. He stood holding his notes, and then, buckling them up once more,
he left the room with evidently reluctant steps. It was at this time that the clocks struck one.

In their field among the soft new grass sat Bertie and Billy some ten yards apart, each with
his back against an apple tree. Each had his notes and took his turn at questioning the other.
Thus the names of the Greek philosophers with their dates and doctrines were shouted gayly
in the meadow. The foreheads of the boys were damp to-day, as they had been last night, and
their shirts were opened to the air; but it was the sun that made them hot now, and no lamp
or gas; and already they looked twice as alive as they had looked at breakfast. There they
sat, while their memories gripped the summarized list of facts essential, facts to be known
accurately; the simple, solid, raw facts, which, should they happen to come on the examination
paper, no skill could evade nor any imagination supply. But this study was no longer dry and
dreadful to them: they had turned it to a sporting event. "What about Heracleitos?" Billy as
catechist would put at Bertie. "Eternal flux," Bertie would correctly snap back at Billy. Or,
if he got it mixed up, and replied, "Everything is water," which was the doctrine of another
Greek, then Billy would credit himself with twenty-five cents on a piece of paper. Each ran
a memorandum of this kind; and you can readily see how spirited a character metaphysics would
assume under such conditions.

"I'm going in," said Bertie, suddenly, as Billy was crediting himself with a fifty-cent gain.
"What's your score?"

"Two seventy-five, counting your break on Parmenides. It'll be cold."

"No, it won't. Well, I'm only a quarter behind you." And Bertie puffed off his shoes. Soon
he splashed into the stream where the bend made a hole of some depth.

"Cold?" inquired Billy on the bank. Bertie closed his eyes dreamily. "Delicious," said he,
and sank luxuriously beneath the surface with slow strokes.

Billy had his clothes off in a moment, and, taking the plunge, screamed loudly "You liar!"
he yelled, as he came up. And he made for Bertie.

Delight rendered Bertie weak and helpless; he was caught and ducked; and after some vigorous
wrestling both came out of the icy water.

"Now we've got no towels, you fool," said Billy.

"Use your notes," said Bertie, and he rolled in the grass. Then they chased each other round
the apple trees, and the black gelding watched them by the wall, its ears well forward.

While they were dressing they discovered it was half-past one, and became instantly famished.
"We should have brought lunch along," they told each other. But they forgot that no such thing
as lunch could have induced them to delay their escape from Cambridge for a moment this morning.
"What do you suppose Oscar is doing now?" Billy inquired of Bertie, as they led the black gelding
back to the road; and Bertie laughed like an infant. "Gentlemen," said he, in Oscar's manner,
"we now approach the multiplicity of the ego." The black gelding must have thought it had humorists
to deal with this day.

Oscar, as a matter of fact, was eating his cheap lunch away over in Cambridge. There was cold
mutton, and boiled potatoes with hard brown spots in them, and large picked cucumbers; and
the salt was damp and would not shake out through the holes in the top of the bottle. But Oscar
ate two helps of everything with a good appetite, and between whiles looked at his notes, which
lay open beside him on the table. At the stroke of two he was again knocking at his pupils'
door. But no answer came. John had gone away somewhere for indefinite hours and the door was
locked. So Oscar wrote: "Called, two p.m.," on a scrap of envelope, signed his name, and put
it through the letter-slit. It crossed his mind to hunt other pupils for his vacant time, but
he decided against this at once, and returned to his own room. Three o'clock found him back
at the door, knocking scrupulously, The idea of performing his side of the contract, of tendering
his goods and standing ready at all times to deliver them, was in his commercially mature mind.
This time he had brought a neat piece of paper with him, and wrote upon it, "Called, three
P.M.," and signed it as before, and departed to his room with a sense of fulfilled obligations.

Bertie and Billy had lunched at Mattapan quite happily on cold ham, cold pie, and doughnuts.
Mattapan, not being accustomed to such lilies of the field, stared at their clothes and general
glory, but observed that they could eat the native bill-of-fare as well as anybody. They found
some good, cool beer, moreover, and spoke to several people of the Bird-in-Hand, and got several
answers: for instance, that the Bird-in-Hand was at Hingham; that it was at Nantasket; that
they had better inquire for it at South Braintree; that they had passed it a mile back; and
that there was no such place. If you would gauge the intelligence of our population, inquire
your way in a rural neighborhood. With these directions they took up their journey after an
hour and a half,--a halt made chiefly for the benefit of the black gelding, whom they looked
after as much as they did themselves. For a while they discussed club matters seriously, as
both of them were officers of certain organizations, chosen so on account of their recognized
executive gifts. These questions settled, they resumed the lighter theme of philosophy, and
made it (as Billy observed) a near thing for the Causal law. But as they drove along, their
minds left this topic on the abrupt discovery that the sun was getting down out of the sky,
and they asked each other where they were and what they should do. They pulled up at some cross-roads
and debated this with growing uneasiness. Behind them lay the way to Cambridge,--not very clear,
to be sure; but you could always go where you had come from, Billy seemed to think. He asked,
"How about Cambridge and a little Oscar to finish off with?" Bertie frowned. This would be
failure. Was Billy willing to go back and face John the successful?

"It would only cost me five dollars," said Billy.

"Ten," Bertie corrected. He recalled to Billy the matter about the landlady's hair.

"By Jove, that's so!" cried Billy, brightening. It seemed conclusive. But he grew cloudy again
the next moment. He was of opinion that one could go too far in a thing.

"Where's your sand?" said Bertie.

Billy made an unseemly rejoinder, but even in the making was visited by inspiration. He saw
the whole thing as it really was. "By Jove!" said he, "we couldn't get back in time for dinner."

