THE IRON STAR And what It saw on Its Journey through the Ages

From Myth to History

By

JOHN PRESTON TRUE Author of "Scouting for Washington," "Their Club and Ours," "Shoulder Arms," etc.

Illustrated by Lilian Crawford True

PREFACE

This is a wonderful old world of ours, the one we live in. It is wonderful to think how it
has grown, day by day, year by year, century by century, and by each step of Time just a little
better worth living in. It is like a beautiful fairy story, with the great advantage of being true.

Of course none of us were here when the world began, so we did not see the beginning of it,
but some of us have worked the problem backward through the years to find out what the beginning
was like; and starting from a good dry spot, if you follow the wanderings of my Iron Star,
I believe you will at no time be very far from the truth of the way in which girls and boys
and their elders lived in the days now long ago. Will you make the journey with me?

J. P. T.

SEPTEMBER, 1899.

CONTENTS.

SPARK I.

HOW THE STAR CAME INTO THIS WORLD.

SPARK II.

HOW THE STAR AGAIN BEGAN TO TRAVEL.

SPARK III.

HOW THE STAR WAS CARRIED ON THE WARPATH, AND WHAT CAME OF IT.

SPARK IV.

HOW THE STAR WENT TO THE NORTHLAND.

SPARK V.

HOW THE STAR FLEW INTO MANY PIECES AND WHAT CAME OF IT.

SPARK VI.

HOW FRAGMENTS OF THE STAR TRAVELLED TO A FAR COUNTRY.

SPARK VII.

HOW THE STAR HELPED ULF THE SILENT TO WIN A GREAT NAME.

SPARK VIII.

HOW THE IRON STAR VISITED A GREAT KING.

SPARK IX.

HOW THE STAR HELPED TO WIN A THRONE.

SPARK X.

HOW THE STAR SANG A SONG OF FREEDOM TO A CAPTIVE KING.

SPARK XI.

HOW THE STAR WAS PRESENT AT THE GREAT GIFT OF THE BARONS.

SPARK XII.

AND HOW IT WENT HALF ROUND THE EARTH, YET CROSSED AGAIN AT LAST THE TRAIL OF LEIF ERICSSON.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

THE FALLING OF THE STAR

STONE AGE SPEARS AND POTTERY

KNIVES, FROM THE BRONZE AGE

THE STORIES OF UMPL'S HUNTING

UMPL'S PICTURE-BOOKS

"JARL SIGURD, THRALL AM I, YET A CHIEF'S SON ALSO"

HOW EDITH FAIRHAIR SPUN THE SNOW-WHITE YARN

ULF, THE YOUNG VIKING

THE STATUE OF LEIF ERICSSON

THE HUNTING OF THE BEAR

THE GHOSTS AND WOLVES THEY SAW BEYOND THE FIRE

THE FLAG OF THE WHITE BEAR'S HEAD

WHERE LOUIS FOUND THE ARMOUR OF THE VIKING

THE IRON HAND ON THE MAGNA CHARTA

THE TENT POLE OF THE SARACEN

IN THE CAMP OF THE ARABS

CAPTAIN MYLES STANDISH

SPARK I.

HOW THE STAR CAME INTO THIS WORLD.

To begin with, it all happened a very long time ago,--some say five thousand years, some say
ten thousand years, and one wise man says it never happened at all; but even the wise are not
wise at all times, and I am inclined to believe that it was in one of those unwise times that
the doubt was raised; for I believe it happened, although I am not sure about the date.

One thing is certain: there was a time when Europe was about all forest, where it wasn't water
or bare rock. There were no cities, so of course there were no policemen. There were not even
kings and queens, although the present kings and queens don't like to be reminded that there
ever was a time when the world got along without any. They think it is impolite. Of course,
sometimes it is impolite to tell the truth, and then one can only say nothing, or talk of the
weather. So any young king or queen who reads this may go back and read it again and skip that
line.

Be it as it may, there once lived in that great forest a boy and his sister. Not being able
to speak their language I do not know what their names may have meant; but they had names,
one sounding like a grunt, the other a hiss. Better call them Umpl and Sptz, which is as near
as I can come to it. Of course Sptz was the girl; and they both believed most firmly in hobgoblins,
evil spirits, wicked elves, that were ever on the watch for them in the dark; and when they
heard the long cre-ak of a tree branch rubbing on another branch in the night as the wind arose,
their ears told them that it was a branch, but their fears said it was a goblin, and in the
night-time they believed their fears the most. If only they had fire, with its light and warmth,
it would be different! So they thought many a day, when the sunlight glinted through the tree
trunks and lay in spots upon the moss. Then the dark came down, and still they had no fire.

Does this seem strange? Remember, then, that matches were not made in those days. Sometimes
they got fire by striking two bits of stone together. There were men who knew how to make fire
by rubbing bits of wood together. Some day you might try that. I can promise you that you will
get very warm; but I don't think it will be because of the fire which you make by it unless
some one first shows you how, and Umpl and Sptz's father did not happen to be one of the men
who knew how. It was thus a great misfortune when one day the fire went out, or, rather, was
put out by the roof falling on it. You must know, that if this was before the days of cities,
it was also before the days of houses, and our young friends lived in a cave. On the whole,
it was a good cave, fairly high inside and small to get into, and not too smoky when the wind
was right. When it wasn't they could go outside, or have a smaller fire: and when that ton
of rock came down so suddenly on both fire and supper they were not at all surprised. It had
happened before; but the father was angry just the same, and said that he would rather it had
fallen on Sptz. Girls were not thought so much of in those days as they are now. But there!
girls are like queens: they don't like to be reminded of such things.

Well, the fire was out. So was the supper. The father picked up his war-club and spear and
went out after some more, thinking over in his mind which of his neighbours had a fire and
at the same time was not at war with him. He did a deal of thinking and brought to mind every
cave for forty or fifty miles around, then shook his shocky head. It was of no use whatever.
It was all war. So, when he came back with a bundle of hares they had to cook their supper
without any fire, and every one knows how hard that is.

What was nearly as bad, they could not depend on the fire to keep out night prowlers. As they
sat in the cave one night the stars in the doorway were darkened. The father had just time
to spring to the entrance with a spear when in came the huge head and shoulders of a monstrous
Cave Bear. The spear bit deep into the vast shaggy chest and the air was filled with such a
shuddering roar that several more pieces of stone fell from the roof; and after all it was
not the spear, but the sand and sharp bits of stone which Umpl flung in his eyes that made
the animal back out, growling and brushing his head in a rage. Sptz and her mother lost no
time in heaping into the entrance all the stone blocks that lay around, till it was so small
that they had to take some out in the morning so they themselves could go out, and the father
vowed to be the death of that bear before he was a week older. But he looked blue as he said
it, for he knew very well the bear would be more likely to be the death of him.

So all the more earnestly they watched the valley below them for some wreath of smoke aside
from the well-known spots where enemies were cooking their dinners. Sometimes a thunder-storm
would sweep across from peak to peak, and then they would all be out of the cave, looking eagerly.
If a tree was struck by lightning, now, they might get fire from it. More than once a tree
was struck and Umpl and Sptz raced off through the rain to the spot, regardless of the evil
spirits which every Cave boy knew lived in the storm. But every time they arrived only to find
that the drenching rain had washed out all of the fire but the smell, and that was not very
satisfying; so they had to go disconsolately back and take the beating which they were sure
to get for disappointing their elders, and had to do a double amount of work besides.

It was not all playtime with Umpl and Sptz by any means. Sptz had to help her mother about
the cooking, when there was any. She also had to help tan the skins of wild animals into a
beautifully soft kind of leather which they could make into cloaks for winter wear by pricking
holes in them with sharp bits of bone and weaving thongs, instead of sewing edges together
with needles and thread. Sptz never saw either in all her girl-life.

Umpl had his own work. Outside, hare-catching kept him busy. It is wonderful how many a family
can eat when it tries hard, and when deer are scarce, or the father is a long way off on a
hunt and there is no meat in the kitchen. Then he had to dig up certain juicy roots that were
good--when he could find them. A great part of his time also was spent in breaking bones and
stones into small pieces for his father to work up into arrowheads. Umpl hated that. He would
not have minded doing the fine work about it, but just to crack bones all his spare time was
not joyful; and, now that there was no fire to pull wood for, he had just so much more spare
time for bone-cracking.

One afternoon both Umpl and Sptz went out together. It was not very late, and on so clear a
day one could see a long way through the glades among the tree trunks, which was something
to be considered. Once when it was not so clear they had spent a long time on the outer branches
of a tree waiting for a Cave Bear to get hungry enough to give them up and hunt for another
dinner. But this was a better day. They knew of a log in the forest, that was all covered with
vines, and this was the time of the year when also it would be covered with berries that were
worth having. They gave a careful look around before sitting down, marked a tree that looked
like easy climbing, and then went for the berries; but they still sat facing different ways,
so that any danger which might come from any side could be seen in time for flight. Overhead
they had not thought of looking.

And yet it was from overhead that danger was coming. Far up in the sky a star was falling.
Why it fell no one knows; but fall it did. It came hurtling out of space, like a great fiery
dragon, leaving a long flaming train across the sky that lit up the whole world like a torch.
The birds in the forest fluttered and screamed in fear. The wild beasts crouched under the
largest trees that were near. It looked as though the whole world was on fire!

Many miles upward, if one goes so high, he comes to a place where there is no air. As you come
nearer the earth you begin to find some, although very thin indeed. Then it grows thicker,
till there is enough for one to breathe and live in. But the air is wrapped around the earth
like a cushion, or like a peach around its stone; and you know that even a cushion, or a football,
or a bicycle tire can be blown up with air so hard that it seems like a rock and would hurt
if you struck it. The star struck this cushion. It was flying so fast-- hundreds of miles a
second, or in the time between two ticks of a clock--that the air which it met did not have
time to be pushed out of its way, and it was like running up against a hard wall. There was
an enormous crash like thunder, but ten thousand thousand times as loud, and that star broke
all up into pieces.

