Spring with its tempered mildness is the season to render the scent clear, except where possibly
the soil, bursting with flowers, may mislead the pack, by mingling the perfume of flowers with
the true scent. (12) In summer scent is thin and indistinct; the earth being baked through
and through absorbs the thinner warmth inherent in the trail, while the dogs themselves are
less keen scented at that season through the general relaxation of their bodies. (13) In autumn
scent lies clean, all the products of the soil by that time, if cultivable, being already garnered,
or, if wild, withered away with age, so that the odours of various fruits are no longer a disturbing
cause through blowing on to the line. (14) In winter, summer, and autumn, moreover, as opposed
to spring, the trail of a hare lies for the most part in straight lines, but in the earlier
season it is highly complicated, for the little creatures are perpetually coupling and particularly
at this season, so that of necessity as they roam together for the purpose they make the line
intricate as described.

 (12) i.e. "with the scent into a composite and confusing whole."

 (13) Or, "owing to the relaxed condition of their frames."

 (14) Lit. "The fruity odours do not, as commingling currents, injure
    the trail."

The scent of the line leading to the hare's form lies longer than that of a hare on the run,
and for this reason: in proceeding to her form the hare keeps stopping, (15) the other is in
rapid motion; consequently, the ground in one case is thickly saturated all along with scent,
in the other sparsely and superficially. So, too, scent lies better in woody than on barren
ground, since, whilst running to and fro or sitting up, the creature comes in contact with
a variety of objects. Everything that earth produces or bears upon her bosom will serve as
puss's resting-place. These are her screen, her couch, her canopy; (16) apart, it may be, or
close at hand, or at some middle point, among them she lies ensconced. At times, with an effort
taxing all her strength, she will spring across to where some jutting point or clinging undergrowth
on sea or freshet may attract her.

 (15) "The form tracks are made by the hare leisurely proceeding and
    stopping at times; those on the run quickly."

 (16) Lit. "Anything and everything will serve to couch under, or
    above, within, beside, now at some distance off, and now hard by,
    and now midway between."

The couching hare (17) constructs her form for the most part in sheltered spots during cold
weather and in shady thickets during the hot season, but in spring and autumn on ground exposed
to the sun. Not so the running (18) animal, for the simple reason that she is scared out of
her wits by the hounds. (19)

 (17) "The form-frequenting hare."

 (18) "Her roving congener," i.e. the hunted hare that squats. The
    distinction drawn is between the form chosen by the hare for her
    own comfort, and her squatting-place to escape the hounds when
    hunted.

 (19) i.e. "the dogs have turned her head and made her as mad as a
    March hare."

In reclining the hare draws up the thighs under the flanks, (20) putting its fore-legs together,
as a rule, and stretching them out, resting its chin on the tips of its feet. It spreads its
ears out over the shoulder-blades, and so shelters the tender parts of its body; its hair serves
as a protection, (21) being thick and of a downy texture. When awake it keeps on blinking its
eyelids, (22) but when asleep the eyelids remain wide open and motionless, and the eyes rigidly
fixed; during sleep it moves its nostrils frequently, if awake less often.

 (20) Pollux, v. 72.

 (21) Or, "as a waterproof."

 (22) So Pollux, ib.

