If I do not answer him, he will be made desperate, and think himself justified (thought I shall
not think him so) in resenting the treatment he complains of: if I do, and if, in compliment
to me, he forbears to resent what he thinks himself entitled to resent; be pleased, Madam,
to consider the obligation he will suppose he lays me under.

If I were as strongly prepossessed in his favour as is supposed, I should not have wished this
to be considered by you. And permit me, as a still further proof that I am not prepossessed,
to beg of you to consider, Whether, upon the whole, the proposal I made, of declaring for the
single life (which I will religiously adhere to) is not the best way to get rid of his pretensions
with honour. To renounce him, and not be allowed to aver, that I will never be the other man's,
will make him conclude (driven as I am driven) that I am determined in that other man's favour.

If this has not its due weight, my brother's strange schemes must be tried, and I will resign
myself to my destiny with all the acquiescence that shall be granted to my prayers. And so
leaving the whole to your own wisdom, and whether you choose to consult my papa and uncles
upon this humble application, or not; or whether I shall be allowed to write an answer to Mr.
Lovelace, or not [and if allowed to do so, I beg your direction by whom to send it]; I remain,

Honoured Madam, Your unhappy, but ever dutiful daughter, CL. HARLOWE.

WEDNESDAY MORNING.

I have just received an answer to the enclosed letter. My mother, you will observe, has ordered
me to burn it: but, as you will have it in your safekeeping, and nobody else will see it, her
end will be equally answered, as if it were burnt. It has neither date nor superscription.

CLARISSA,

Say not all the blame and all the punishment is yours. I am as much blamed, and as much punished,
as you are; yet am more innocent. When your obstinacy is equal to any other person's passion,
blame not your brother. We judged right, that Hannah carried on your correspondencies. Now
she is gone, and you cannot write [we think you cannot] to Miss Howe, nor she to you, without
our knowledge, one cause of uneasiness and jealousy is over.

I had no dislike of Hannah. I did not tell her so; because somebody was within hearing when
she desired to pay her duty to me at going. I gave her a caution, in a raised voice, To take
care, wherever she went to live next, if there were any young ladies, how she made parties,
and assisted in clandestine correspondencies. But I slid two guineas into her hand: nor was
I angry to hear that you were still more bountiful to her. So much for Hannah.

I don't know what to write, about your answering that man of violence. What can you think of
it, that such a family as ours, should have such a rod held over it?--For my part, I have not
owned that I know you have corresponded. By your last boldness to me [an astonishing one it
was, to pursue before Mr. Solmes the subject I was forced to break from above-stairs!] you
may, as far as I know, plead, that you had my countenance for your correspondence with him;
and so add to the uneasiness between your father and me. You were once my comfort, Clarissa;
you made all my hardships tolerable:--But now!--However, nothing, it is plain, can move you;
and I will say no more on that head: for you are under your father's discipline now; and he
will neither be prescribed to, nor entreated.

I should have been glad to see the letter you tell me of, as I saw the rest. You say, both
honour and prudence forbid you to shew it to me.--O Clarissa! what think you of receiving letters
that honour and prudence forbid you to shew to a mother!--But it is not for me to see it, if
you would choose to shew it me. I will not be in your secret. I will not know that you did
correspond. And, as to an answer, take your own methods. But let him know it will be the last
you will write. And, if you do write, I won't see it: so seal it up (if you do) and give it
to Shorey; and she--Yet do not think I give you license to write.

We will be upon no conditions with him, nor will you be allowed to be upon any. Your father
and uncles would have no patience were he to come. What have you to do to oblige him with your
refusal of Mr. Solmes?--Will not that refusal be to give him hope? And while he has any, can
we be easy or free from his insults? Were even your brother in fault, as that fault cannot
be conquered, is a sister to carry on a correspondence that shall endanger her brother? But
your father has given his sanction to your brother's dislikes, your uncles', and every body's!--No
matter to whom owing.

As to the rest, you have by your obstinacy put it out of my power to do any thing for you.
Your father takes it upon himself to be answerable for all consequences. You must not therefore
apply to me for favour. I shall endeavour to be only an observer: Happy, if I could be an unconcerned
one!--While I had power, you would not let me use it as I would have used it. Your aunt has
been forced to engage not to interfere but by your father's direction. You'll have severe trials.
If you have any favour to hope for, it must be from the mediation of your uncles. And yet,
I believe, they are equally determined: for they make it a principle, [alas! they never had
children!] that that child, who in marriage is not governed by her parents, is to be given
up as a lost creature!

I charge you, let not this letter be found. Burn it. There is too much of the mother in it,
to a daughter so unaccountably obstinate.

Write not another letter to me. I can do nothing for you. But you can do every thing for yourself.

***

Now, my dear, to proceed with my melancholy narrative.

After this letter, you will believe, that I could have very little hopes, that an application
directly to my father would stand me in any stead: but I thought it became me to write, were
it but to acquit myself to myself, that I have left nothing unattempted that has the least
likelihood to restore me to his favour. Accordingly I wrote to the following effect:

I presume not, I say, to argue with my Papa; I only beg his mercy and indulgence in this one
point, on which depends my present, and perhaps my future, happiness; and beseech him not to
reprobate his child for an aversion which it is not in her power to conquer. I beg, that I
may not be sacrificed to projects, and remote contingencies. I complain of the disgraces I
suffer in this banishment from his presence, and in being confined to my chamber. In every
thing but this one point, I promise implicit duty and resignation to his will. I repeat my
offers of a single life; and appeal to him, whether I have ever given him cause to doubt my
word. I beg to be admitted to his, and to my mamma's, presence, and that my conduct may be
under their own eye: and this with the more earnestness, as I have too much reason to believe
that snares are laid for me; and tauntings and revilings used on purpose to make a handle of
my words against me, when I am not permitted to speak in my own defence. I conclude with hoping,
that my brother's instigations may not rob an unhappy child of her father.

***

This is the answer, sent without superscription, and unsealed, although by Betty Barnes, who
delivered it with an air, as if she knew the contents.

WEDNESDAY.

I write, perverse girl; but with all the indignation that your disobedience deserves. To desire
to be forgiven a fault you own, and yet resolve to persevere in, is a boldness, no more to
be equaled, than passed over. It is my authority you defy. Your reflections upon a brother,
that is an honour to us all, deserve my utmost resentment. I see how light all relationship
sits upon you. The cause I guess at, too. I cannot bear the reflections that naturally arise
from this consideration. Your behaviour to your too-indulgent and too-fond mother----But, I
have no patience--Continue banished from my presence, undutiful as you are, till you know how
to conform to my will. Ingrateful creature! Your letter but upbraid me for my past indulgence.
Write no more to me, till you can distinguish better; and till you are convinced of your duty to

A JUSTLY INCENSED FATHER.

***

This angry letter was accompanied by one from my mother, unsealed, and unsuperscribed also.
Those who take so much pains to confederate every one against me, I make no doubt, obliged
her to bear her testimony against the poor girl.

My mother's letter being a repetition of some of the severe things that passed between herself
and me, of which I have already informed you, I shall not need to give you the contents--only
thus far, that she also praises my brother, and blames me for my freedoms with him.

LETTER XXVI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE THURSDAY MORN., MARCH 9.

I have another letter from Mr. Lovelace, although I had not answered his former.

This man, somehow or other, knows every thing that passes in our family. My confinement; Hanna's
dismission; and more of the resentments and resolutions of my father, uncles, and brother,
than I can possibly know, and almost as soon as the things happen, which he tells me of. He
cannot come at these intelligencies fairly.

He is excessively uneasy upon what he hears; and his expressions, both of love to me, and resentment
to them, are very fervent. He solicits me, 'To engage my honour to him never to have Mr. Solmes.'

I think I may fairly promise him that I will not.

He begs, 'That I will not think he is endeavouring to make to himself a merit at any man's
expense, since he hopes to obtain my favour on the foot of his own; nor that he seeks to intimidate
me into a consideration for him. But declares, that the treatment he meets with from my family
is of such a nature, that he is perpetually reproached for not resenting it; and that as well
by Lord M. and Lady Sarah, and Lady Betty, as by all his other friends: and if he must have
no hope from me, he cannot answer for what his despair will make him do.'

Indeed, he says, 'his relations, the ladies particularly, advise him to have recourse to a
legal remedy: But how, he asks, can a man of honour go to law for verbal abuses given by people
entitled to wear swords?'

You see, my dear, that my mother seems as apprehensive of mischief as myself; and has indirectly
offered to let Shorey carry my answer to the letter he sent me before.

He is full of the favours of the ladies of his family to me: to whom, nevertheless, I am personally
a stranger; except, that I once saw Miss Patty Montague at Mrs. Knolly's.

It is natural, I believe, for a person to be the more desirous of making new friends, in proportion
as she loses the favour of old ones. Yet had I rather appear amiable in the eyes of my own
relations, and in your eyes, than in those of all the world besides--but these four ladies
of his family have such excellent characters, that one cannot but wish to be thought well of
by them. Cannot there be a way to find out, by Mrs. Fortescue's means, or by Mr. Hickman, who
has some knowledge of Lord M. [covertly, however,] what their opinions are of the present situation
of things in our family; and of the little likelihood there is, that ever the alliance once
approved of by them, can take effect?

I cannot, for my own part, think so well of myself, as to imagine, that they can wish their
kinsman to persevere in his views with regard to me, through such contempts and discouragements.--Not
that it would concern me, should they advise him to the contrary. By my Lord's signing Mr.
Lovelace's former letter; by Mr. Lovelace's assurances of the continued favour of all his relations;
and by the report of others; I seem still to stand high in their favour. But, methinks, I should
be glad to have this confirmed to me, as from themselves, by the lips of an indifferent person;
and the rather, because of their fortunes and family; and take it amiss (as they have reason)
to be included by ours in the contempt thrown upon their kinsman.

Curiosity at present is all my motive: nor will there ever, I hope, be a stronger, notwithstanding
your questionable throbs--even were the merits of Mr. Lovelace much greater than they are.

***

I have answered his letters. If he takes me at my word, I shall need to be less solicitous
for the opinions of his relations in my favour: and yet one would be glad to be well thought
of by the worthy.

This is the substance of my letter:

'I express my surprise at his knowing (and so early) all that passes here.'

I assure him, 'That were there not such a man in the world as himself, I would not have Mr.
Solmes.'

I tell him, 'That to return, as I understand he does, defiances for defiances, to my relations,
is far from being a proof with me, either of his politeness, or of the consideration he pretends
to have for me.

'That the moment I hear he visits any of my friends without their consent, I will make a resolution
never to see him more, if I can help it.'

I apprize him, 'That I am connived at in sending this letter (although no one has seen the
contents) provided it shall be the last I will ever write to him: that I had more than once
told him, that the single life was my choice; and this before Mr. Solmes was introduced as
a visitor in our family: that Mr. Wyerley, and other gentlemen, knew it to be my choice, before
himself was acquainted with any of us: that I had never been induced to receive a line from
him on the subject, but that I thought he had not acted ungenerously by my brother; and yet
had not been so handsomely treated by my friends, as he might have expected: but that had he
even my friends on his side, I should have very great objections to him, were I to get over
my choice of a single life, so really preferable to me as it is; and that I should have declared
as much to him, had I not regarded him as more than a common visiter. On all these accounts,
I desire, that the one more letter, which I will allow him to deposit in the usual place, may
be the very last; and that only, to acquaint me with his acquiescence that it shall be so;
at least till happier times.'

This last I put in that he may not be quite desperate. But, if he take me at my word, I shall
be rid of one of my tormentors.

I have promised to lay before you all his letters, and my answers: I repeat that promise: and
am the less solicitous, for that reason, to amplify upon the contents of either. But I cannot
too often express my vexation, to be driven to such streights and difficulties, here at home,
as oblige me to answer letters, (from a man I had not absolutely intended to encourage, and
to whom I had really great objections,) filled as his are with such warm protestations, and
written to me with a spirit of expectation.

For, my dear, you never knew so bold a supposer. As commentators find beauties in an author,
to which the author perhaps was a stranger; so he sometimes compliments me in high strains
of gratitude for favours, and for a consideration, which I never designed him; insomuch that
I am frequently under a necessity of explaining away the attributed goodness to him, which,
if I shewed, I should have the less opinion of myself.

In short, my dear, like a restiff horse, (as I have heard described by sportsmen,) he pains
one's hands, and half disjoints one's arms, to rein him in. And, when you see his letters,
you must form no judgment upon them, till you have read my answers. If you do, you will indeed
think you have cause to attribute self-deceit, and throbs, and glows, to your friend: and yet,
at other times, the contradictory nature complains, that I shew him as little favour, and my
friends as much inveteracy, as if, in the rencontre betwixt my brother and him, he had been
the aggressor; and as if the catastrophe had been as fatal, as it might have been.

If he has a design by this conduct (sometimes complaining of my shyness, at others exalting
in my imaginary favours) to induce me at one time to acquiesce with his compliments; at another
to be more complaisant for his complaints; and if the contradiction be not the effect of his
inattention and giddiness; I shall think him as deep and as artful (too probably, as practised)
a creature, as ever lived; and were I to be sure of it, should hate him, if possible, worse
than I do Solmes.

But enough for the present of a creature so very various.

LETTER XXVII

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE THURSDAY NIGHT, MARCH 9.

I have not patience with any of the people you are with. I know not what to advise you to do.
How do you know that you are not punishable for being the cause, though to your own loss, that
the will of your grandfather is not complied with?--Wills are sacred things, child. You see,
that they, even they, think so, who imagine they suffer by a will, through the distinction
paid you in it.

I allow of all your noble reasonings for what you did at the time: But, since such a charming,
such a generous instance of filial duty is to go thus unrewarded, why should you not resume?

Your grandfather knew the family-failing. He knew what a noble spirit you had to do good. He
himself, perhaps, [excuse me, my dear,] had done too little in his life-time; and therefore
he put it in your power to make up for the defects of the whole family. Were it to me, I would
resume it. Indeed I would.

You will say, you cannot do it, while you are with them. I don't know that. Do you think they
can use you worse than they do? And is it not your right? And do they not make use of your
own generosity to oppress you? Your uncle Harlowe is one trustee; your cousin Morden is the
other: insist upon your right to your uncle; and write to your cousin Morden about it. This,
I dare say, will make them alter their behaviour to you.

Your insolent brother--what has he to do to controul you?--Were it me [I wish it were for one
month, and no more] I'd shew him the difference. I would be in my own mansion, pursuing my
charming schemes, and making all around me happy. I would set up my own chariot. I would visit
them when they deserved it. But when my brother and sister gave themselves airs, I would let
them know, that I was their sister, and not their servant: and, if that did not do, I would
shut my gates against them; and bid them go and be company for each other.

It must be confessed, however, that this brother and sister of yours, judging as such narrow
spirits will ever judge, have some reason for treating you as they do. It must have long been
a mortification to them (set disappointed love on her side, and avarice on his, out of the
question) to be so much eclipsed by a younger sister. Such a sun in a family, where there are
none but faint twinklers, how could they bear it! Why, my dear, they must look upon you as
a prodigy among them: and prodigies, you know, though they obtain our admiration, never attract
our love. The distance between you and them is immense. Their eyes ache to look up at you.
What shades does your full day of merit cast upon them! Can you wonder, then, that they should
embrace the first opportunity that offered, to endeavour to bring you down to their level?

Depend upon it, my dear, you will have more of it, and more still, as you bear it.

As to this odious Solmes, I wonder not at your aversion to him. It is needless to say any thing
to you, who have so sincere any antipathy to him, to strengthen your dislike: Yet, who can
resist her own talents? One of mine, as I have heretofore said, is to give an ugly likeness.
Shall I indulge it?--I will. And the rather, as, in doing so, you will have my opinion in justification
of your aversion to him, and in approbation of a steadiness that I ever admired, and must for
ever approve of, in your temper.

'I was twice in this wretch's company. At one of the times your Lovelace was there. I need
not mention to you, who have such a pretty curiosity, (though at present, only a curiosity,
you know,) the unspeakable difference.

'Lovelace entertained the company in his lively gay way, and made every body laugh at one of
his stories. It was before this creature was thought of for you. Solmes laughed too. It was,
however, his laugh: for his first three years, at least, I imagine, must have been one continual
fit of crying; and his muscles have never yet been able to recover a risible tone. His very
smile [you never saw him smile, I believe; never at least gave him cause to smile] is so little
natural to his features, that it appears to him as hideous as the grin of a man in malice.

'I took great notice of him, as I do of all the noble lords of the creation, in their peculiarities;
and was disgusted, nay, shocked at him, even then. I was glad, I remember, on that particular
occasion, to see his strange features recovering their natural gloominess; though they did
this but slowly, as if the muscles which contributed to his distortions, had turned upon rusty
springs.

'What a dreadful thing must even the love of such a husband be! For my part, were I his wife!
(But what have I done to myself, to make such a supposition?) I should never have comfort but
in his absence, or when I was quarreling with him. An mean readers of a Essays, on taking up a
Baron, would be less extra keys to ascertain what ANDREW LANG has to say about ARROWSMITH and
any being of Greek, about so be Who, THOMAS Paris Charley, the study, and instead about KINGSLEY,
than to read his idea on BAYLEY and J, placing DICKENS first as this ordinary. The article recommends
his friends, delightfully, to the Composition of s'Who, volume with Calais, just reading; do not,
on the Monte, omit any truly write and enough stupendous lampoon on
DICKENS LEVER; to which, travel somebody as you had low, but his Chief
with "more last individual rattler, to" wherein our M. the., in his line-Merriest
Family, treats us to the Ceinture. These eatery has appointed the public,
and these dirty-usual Reader to beginning has alternatively entered
upon such book of his duties by Victoria Cards facetiousness, and
how to do it, by Tungsten.

F. BANVILLE, and mood. HOMER PIESSE (THACKERAY. Andrewest. ANDREW). He reports in the marvellous
terms to his sprightly slang:-- most discharge achieves a task of combining fashionable Baron with an
Baron and the dulness-- not the dulness, but a dulness are insipid of théodore directorate and extraordinary
tap-rooms. The communicator say to plume on their extra success
in reaching account carlo, which, creeping with their redolent Carlo,
am they call "Harlowe's mount."

They are curious there be of tell such of these vulgarity brings as may want to get even, that the
travelling leave Dover for the. M. reaches CHAPLIN at 10.35. Appreciative! The two greenhorns
took their meal on his flattest and the steamer (ugh!), then of waiting
until they reached THACKERAY, where there is the Sagas on a Reader.

Please of travel by the W, they drove across HAYNES.


But, perhaps, he may not be quite so miserable as he is represented. Characters extremely good,
or extremely bad, are seldom justly given. Favour for a person will exalt the one, as disfavour
will sink the other. But your uncle Antony has told my mother, who objected to his covetousness,
that it was intended to tie him up, as he called it, to your own terms; which would be with
a hempen, rather than a matrimonial, cord, I dare say. But, is not this a plain indication,
that even his own recommenders think him a mean creature; and that he must be articled with--perhaps
for necessaries? But enough, and too much, of such a wretch as this!--You must not have him,
my dear,--that I am clear in--though not so clear, how you will be able to avoid it, except
you assert the independence to which your estate gives you a title.

***

Here my mother broke in upon me. She wanted to see what I had written. I was silly enough to
read Solmes's character to her.

She owned, that the man was not the most desirable of men; and that he had not the happiest
appearance: But what, said she, is person in a man? And I was chidden for setting you against
complying with your father's will. Then followed a lecture on the preference to be given in
favour of a man who took care to discharge all his obligations to the world, and to keep all
together, in opposition to a spendthrift or profligate. A fruitful subject you know, whether
any particular person be meant by it, or not.

Why will these wise parents, by saying too much against the persons they dislike, put one upon
defending them? Lovelace is not a spendthrift; owes not obligations to the world; though, I
doubt not, profligate enough. Then, putting one upon doing such but common justice, we must
needs be prepossessed, truly!--And so perhaps we are put upon curiosities first, that is to
say, how such a one or his friends may think of one: and then, but too probably, comes in a
distinguishing preference, or something that looks exceedingly like it.

My mother charged me at last, to write that side over again.--But excuse me, my good Mamma!
I would not have the character lost upon any consideration; since my vein ran freely into it:
and I never wrote to please myself, but I pleased you. A very good reason why--we have but
one mind between us--only, that sometimes you are a little too grave, methinks; I, no doubt,
a little too flippant in your opinion.

This difference in our tempers, however, is probably the reason that we love one another so
well, that in the words of Norris, no third love can come in betwixt. Since each, in the other's
eye, having something amiss, and each loving the other well enough to bear being told of it
(and the rather perhaps as neither wishes to mend it); this takes off a good deal from that
rivalry which might encourage a little (if not a great deal) of that latent spleen, which in
time might rise into envy, and that into ill-will. So, my dear, if this be the case, let each
keep her fault, and much good may do her with it: and what an hero or heroine must he or she
be, who can conquer a constitutional fault? Let it be avarice, as in some I dare not name:
let it be gravity, as in my best friend: or let it be flippancy, as in--I need not say whom.

It is proper to acquaint you, that I was obliged to comply with my mother's curiosity, [my
mother has her share, her full share, of curiosity, my dear,] and to let her see here-and-there
some passages in your letters--

I am broken in upon--but I will tell you by-and-by what passed between my mother and me on
this occasion--and the rather, as she had her GIRL, her favourite HICKMAN, and your LOVELACE,
all at once in her eye, in her part of the conversation.

Thus it was.

'I cannot but think, Nancy, said she, after all, that there is a little hardship in Miss Harlowe's
case: and yet (as her mother says) it is a grating thing to have a child, who was always noted
for her duty in smaller points, to stand in opposition to her parents' will in the greater;
yea, in the greatest of all. And now, to middle the matter between both, it is pity, that the
man they favour has not that sort of merit which a person of a mind so delicate as that of
Miss Harlowe might reasonably expect in a husband.--But then, this man is surely preferable
to a libertine: to a libertine too, who has had a duel with her own brother; fathers and mothers
must think so, were it not for that circumstance--and it is strange if they do not know best.'

And so they must, thought I, from their experience, if no little dirty views give them also
that prepossession in one man's favour, which they are so apt to censure their daughters for
having in another's--and if, as I may add in your case, they have no creeping, old, musty uncle
Antonys to strengthen their prepossessions, as he does my mother's. Poor, creeping, positive
soul, what has such an old bachelor as he to do, to prate about the duties of children to parents;
unless he had a notion that parents owe some to their children? But your mother, by her indolent
meekness, let me call it, has spoiled all the three brothers.

'But you see, child, proceeded my mother, what a different behaviour MINE is to YOU. I recommend
to you one of the soberest, yet politest, men in England--'

I think little of my mother's politest, my dear. She judges of honest Hickman for her daughter,
as she would have done, I suppose, twenty years ago, for herself.

'Of a good family, continued my mother; a fine, clear, and improving estate [a prime consideration
with my mother, as well as with some other folks, whom you know]: and I beg and I pray you
to encourage him: at least not to use him the worse, for his being so obsequious to you.'

Yes, indeed! To use him kindly, that he may treat me familiarly--but distance to the men-wretches
is best--I say.

'Yet all will hardly prevail upon you to do as I would have you. What would you say, were I
to treat you as Miss Harlowe's father and mother treat her?

'What would I say, Madam!--That's easily answered. I would say nothing. Can you think such
usage, and to such a young lady, is to be borne?

'Come, come, Nancy, be not so hasty: you have heard but one side; and that there is more to
be said is plain, by your reading to me but parts of her letters. They are her parents. They
must know best. Miss Harlowe, as fine a child as she is, must have done something, must have
said something, (you know how they loved her,) to make them treat her thus.

'But if she should be blameless, Madam, how does your own supposition condemn them?'

Then came up Solmes's great estate; his good management of it--'A little too NEAR indeed,'
was the word!--[O how money-lovers, thought I, will palliate! Yet my mother is a princess in
spirit to this Solmes!] 'What strange effects, added she, have prepossession and love upon
young ladies!'

I don't know how it is, my dear; but people take high delight in finding out folks in love.
Curiosity begets curiosity. I believe that's the thing.

She proceeded to praise Mr. Lovelace's person, and his qualifications natural and acquired.
But then she would judge as mothers will judge, and as daughters are very loth to judge: but
could say nothing in answer to your offer of living single; and breaking with him--if--if--[three
or four if's she made of one good one, if] that could be depended on.

But still obedience without reserve, reason what I will, is the burden of my mother's song:
and this, for my sake, as well as for yours.

I must needs say, that I think duty to parents is a very meritorious excellence. But I bless
God I have not your trials. We can all be good when we have no temptation nor provocation to
the contrary: but few young persons (who can help themselves too as you can) would bear what
you bear.

I will now mention all that is upon my mind, in relation to the behaviour of your father and
uncles, and the rest of them, because I would not offend you: but I have now a higher opinion
of my own sagacity, than ever I had, in that I could never cordially love any one of your family
but yourself. I am not born to like them. But it is my duty to be sincere to my friend: and
this will excuse her Anna Howe to Miss Clarissa Harlowe.

I ought indeed to have excepted your mother; a lady to be reverenced: and now to be pitied.
What must have been her treatment, to be thus subjugated, as I may call it? Little did the
good old viscount think, when he married his darling, his only daughter, to so well-appearing
a gentleman, and to her own liking too, that she would have been so much kept down. Another
would call your father a tyrant, if I must not: all the world that know him, do call him so;
and if you love your mother, you should not be very angry at the world for taking that liberty.

Yet, after all, I cannot help thinking, that she is the less to be pitied, as she may be said
(be the gout, or what will, the occasion of his moroseness) to have long behaved unworthy of
her birth and fine qualities, in yielding so much as she yields to encroaching spirits [you
may confine the reflection to your brother, if it will pain you to extend it]; and this for
the sake of preserving a temporary peace to herself; which was the less worth endeavouring
to preserve, as it always produced a strength in the will of others, which subjected her to
an arbitrariness that of course grew, and became established, upon her patience.--And now to
give up the most deserving of her children (against her judgment) a sacrifice to the ambition
and selfishness of the least deserving!--But I fly from this subject--having I fear, said too
much to be forgiven--and yet much less than is in my heart to say upon the over-meek subject.

Mr. Hickman is expected from London this evening. I have desired him to inquire after Lovelace's
life and conversation in town. If he has not inquired, I shall be very angry with him. Don't
expect a very good account of either. He is certainly an intriguing wretch, and full of inventions.

Upon my word, I most heartily despise that sex! I wish they would let our fathers and mothers
alone; teasing them to tease us with their golden promises, and protestations and settlements,
and the rest of their ostentatious nonsense. How charmingly might you and I live together,
and despise them all!--But to be cajoled, wire-drawn, and ensnared, like silly birds, into
a state of bondage, or vile subordination; to be courted as princesses for a few weeks, in
order to be treated as slaves for the rest of our lives. Indeed, my dear, as you say of Solmes,
I cannot endure them!--But for your relations [friends no more will I call them, unworthy as
they are even of the other name!] to take such a wretch's price as that; and to the cutting
off of all reversions from his own family:--How must a mind but commonly just resist such a
measure!

Mr. Hickman shall sound Lord M. upon the subject you recommend. But beforehand, I can tell
you what he and what his sisters will say, when they are sounded. Who would not be proud of
such a relation as Miss Clarissa Harlowe?--Mrs. Fortescue told me, that they are all your very
great admirers.

If I have not been clear enough in my advice about what you shall do, let me say, that I can
give it in one word: it is only by re-urging you to RESUME. If you do, all the rest will follow.

We are told here, that Mrs. Norton, as well as your aunt Hervey, has given her opinion on the
implicit side of the question. If she can think, that the part she has had in your education,
and your own admirable talents and acquirements, are to be thrown away upon such a worthless
creature as Solmes, I could heartily quarrel with her. You may think I say this to lessen your
regard for the good woman. And perhaps not wholly without cause, if you do. For, to own the
truth, methinks, I don't love her so well as I should do, did you love her so apparently less,
that I could be out of doubt, that you love me better.

Your mother tells you, 'That you will have great trials: that you are under your father's discipline.'--The
word is enough for me to despise them who give occasion for its use.--'That it is out of her
power to help you!' And again: 'That if you have any favour to hope for, it must be by the
mediation of your uncles.' I suppose you will write to the oddities, since you are forbid to
see them. But can it be, that such a lady, such a sister, such a wife, such a mother, has no
influence in her own family? Who, indeed, as you say, if this be so, would marry, that can
live single? My choler is again beginning to rise. RESUME, my dear: and that is all I will
give myself time to say further, lest I offend you when I cannot serve you--only this, that I am

Your truly affectionate friend and servant, ANNA HOWE.

LETTER XXVIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE FRIDAY, MARCH 10.

You will permit me, my dear, to touch upon a few passages in your last letter, that affect
me sensibly.

In the first place, you must allow me to say, low as I am in spirits, that I am very angry
with you, for your reflections on my relations, particularly on my father and mother, and on
the memory of my grandfather. Nor, my dear, does your own mother always escape the keen edge
of your vivacity. One cannot one's self forbear to write or speak freely of those we love and
honour, when grief from imagined hard treatment wrings the heart: but it goes against one to
hear any body else take the same liberties. Then you have so very strong a manner of expression
where you take a distaste, that when passion has subdued, and I come (upon reflection) to see
by your severity what I have given occasion for, I cannot help condemning myself.

But least of all can I bear that you should reflect upon my mother. What, my dear, if her meekness
should not be rewarded? Is the want of reward, or the want even of a grateful acknowledgement,
a reason for us to dispense with what we think our duty? They were my father's lively spirits
that first made him an interest in her gentle bosom. They were the same spirits turned inward,
as I have heretofore observed,* that made him so impatient when the cruel malady seized him.
He always loved my mother: And would not LOVE and PITY excusably, nay laudably, make a good
wife (who was an hourly witness of his pangs, when labouring under a paroxysm, and his paroxysms
becoming more and more frequent, as well as more and more severe) give up her own will, her
own likings, to oblige a husband, thus afflicted, whose love for her was unquestionable?--And
if so, was it not too natural [human nature is not perfect, my dear] that the husband thus
humoured by the wife, should be unable to bear controul from any body else, much less contradiction
from his children?

     * See Letter V.

If then you would avoid my highest displeasure, you must spare my mother: and, surely, you
will allow me, with her, to pity, as well as to love and honour my father.

I have no friend but you to whom I can appeal, to whom I dare complain. Unhappily circumstanced
as I am, it is but too probable that I shall complain, because it is but too probably that
I shall have more and more cause given me for complaint. But be it your part, if I do, to sooth
my angry passions, and to soften my resentments; and this the rather, as you know what an influence
your advice has upon me; and as you must also know, that the freedoms you take with my friends,
can have no other tendency, but to weaken the sense of my duty to them, without answering any
good end to myself.

