The train stopped at the Pomantic station. The young man in the gray clothes rose up, took
something from under the car-seat and went out. What he had with him was a carpenter's box.
It was the same youth who had greeted Ray Ingraham from beneath the elm branches. As the train
got slowly under way again, Marion looked straight out at her window into Frank Sunderline's
face, and bowed,--very modestly and sweetly bowed. He was waiting for that instant on the platform,
until the track should be clear and he could cross.

What he caught in Marion's look, as she turned it full upon him, nobody could see; but there
was a quieter earnest in it, certainly, when she turned back; and the young man had responded
to her salutation with a relaxing glance of friendly pleasantness that seemed more native to
his face than the frown of a few minutes before.

Marion Kent had several selves; several relations, at any rate, into which she could put herself
with others. I think she showed young Sunderline, for that instant, out of gentler, questioning,
almost beseeching eyes, a something she could not show to the whole car-full with whom at the
moment of her entrance she had been in rapport, through frills and puffs and flutters, into
which she had allowed her consciousness to pass. Behind the little window he could only see
a face; a face quieted down from its gay flippancy; a face that showed itself purposely and
simply to him; eyes that said, "What was that you thought of me just now? 

"Where are you going when you go through the wall," he said, "and where are the roses?"

But before he knew it, the Father had put over his head again and
the rocking horse Mother sang the beautiful song:

"Hatto of Mainz
and Poppo of Trier rode together from Luenebier; hott hott Hatto always!
on the trot!

Poppo hop hop! always gallop!

One, two, three! Cell over, one, two, three, four! Now we are here. "

"Bind it go! Bind it go!" Hinzelmeier cried and the father tied the steed from the stove knob
and the mother sang, and the horsemen rode up and Jup Jup down and
soon all the roses and forget white walls in the world.

The tip

Well went back some years, without being Hinzelmeier experienced a repeat of the miracle; therefore,
he thought no more about it everywhere, though his parents were young and beautiful, as they
always have been, and often in winter, the wonderful scent of roses
surrounded her.

In the lonely corridors of the upper floor Hinzelmeier was now to be found only rarely more;
because the cat had died of old age and so was his school for lack of pupils of themselves received.

He
was now beginning almost as if a few years would have to grow the beard, because One afternoon he went
up again into the old hall to visit the white walls, because he wanted the evening, the famous
shadow play "Nebuchadnezzar and his Nutcracker" hire musicians to perform. In this view, he had
come to the end of the corridor, looking at the white cross wall from top to bottom, as he,
to his surprise the corner of a handkerchief hervorhaengen saw it. He bent down to look at it
closer, stood in the corner: 'Ali', which could otherwise called as 'Abel Hinzelmeier' and it
was his handkerchief Mother. Now it began to purr in his head, and the thoughts of working backwards,
on and on, until it suddenly in the first chapter of this history halted. He then searched the handkerchief
from the wall to pull out what it even after a little painful experiments was happy, he suggested,
as did the beautiful woman Abel, three times with the cloth against the wall, and one - two
- three - " did they silently from each other, Hinzelmeier slipped through and was standing
- where he hoped to reach at least - on the House floor. But it was not to doubt, where the
Urgrossmutterschrank stood with the wackelkoepfigen pagodas, along with its own cradle and continues
to the rocking horse, all old appliance, and under the beam length on iron hooks hung like always
the father coats and travel collar and turned slowly around himself when the train through the
open floor doors in. stressed. "Strange!" Hinzelmeier said, "why the mother went for but always
through the wall? "He, however, in addition to the known objects see nothing could, he would
go down by the Bodentuer back into the house. But the door was not there. He hesitated a moment
and thought initially to have only been wrong, because he other hand, was up passes than usual.
He therefore turned and walked between Coats by the old to the cupboard to find your way from
here, and right! there was opposite the door, he could not understand how he had been able overlooked.
When he But it happened, everything seemed suddenly so strange that he began to doubt whether
they are also facing the right door. But however much he knew, there was no other. What disturbed him
most was that the iron latch was missing and removed also the key was, who used to plug used
to. He therefore took his eye to the keyhole, whether he may be able to perceive someone on the
stairs or the landing, which he condescended. To his amazement he saw not the dark staircase, but
in a bright, roomy Room, of whose existence he had hitherto had no
idea.

In the middle of it, he saw a pyramid-shaped shrine, the golden hue of two closed doors and was
decorated with strange carvings. Hinzelmeier not know rather, whether the narrow keyhole confused
his eye, but he was almost as if the Figures of snakes and lizards in the brown leaf garland, which
at the edges hinunterzog, rustled up and down, yes, sometimes even the smooth heads on the gold
ground hinueberreckten the door. All this occupied the boy so that he now only the beautiful Mrs.
Abel and her husband's remarked that knelt with bowed head before the shrines were. Instinctively
he held his breath to avoid being noticed, and now he heard the Voices
of his parents in a low song:

Rinke, cirrus, Rosenschein, open up,
you golden shrine!

Team up to and include us Rinke, cirrus, Rosenschein!
 Different as they
were, she and Ray Ingraham toned and flavored each other, and Marion knew it. They were like
rose-color and gray; or like spice and salt: you did not stop to think which ruled the taste,
or which your eye separately rested on. Something charming, delicious, resulted of their being
together; they set each other off, and helped each other out. Then it was something that Frank
Sunderline should see that Ray would let her be her friend; that she was not altogether too
loud and pronounced for her. Ray did not turn aside and look at wood-piles, and get rid of her.

Furthermore, the way home from the Dorbury depot, for Frank and Marion both, lay past the bakery,
on down the under-hill road.

Marion did not think out a syllable of all this; she grasped the situation, and she acted in
an instant. I told you she acted like a general in the field: perhaps neither she nor the general
would be as skillful, always, with the maps and compasses, and time to plan beforehand. I do
not think Marion was ever very wise in her fore-thoughts.

Beyond Pomantic, the next one or two stations took off a good many passengers, so that they
had their part of the car almost to themselves. Frank Sunderline had come in and taken a place
upon the other side; now he moved over into the seat behind them, accosting them pleasantly,
but not interrupting the conversation which had been busily going on between them all the way.
Ray was really interested in some things Marion had brought up to notice; her face was intent
and thoughtful; perhaps she was not quite so pretty when she was set thinking; her dimples
were hidden; but Marion was beaming, exhilarated partly by her own talk, somewhat by an honest,
if half mischievous earnestness in her subject, and very much also by the consciousness of
the young mechanic opposite, within observing and listening distance. Marion could not help
talking over her shoulders, more or less, always.

"Men take the world in the rough, and do the work; women help, and come in for the finishing
off," said Rachel, just as Frank Sunderline changed his place and joined them. "We could not
handle those, for instance," she said, with a shy, quiet sign toward the carpenter's tools,
and lowering her already gentle voice.

"Men break in the fields, and plough, and sow, and mow; and women ride home on the loads,--is
that it?" said Marion, laughing, and snatching her simile from a hay-field with toppling wagons,
that the train was at that moment skimming by. "Well, may be! All is, I shall look out for
my ride. After things are broken in, I don't see why we shouldn't get the good of it."

"Value is what things stand for, or might procure, isn't it?" said Ray, turning to Sunderline,
and taking him frankly and friendlily into the conversation.

"No fair!" cried Marion. "He doesn't understand the drift of it. Do you, see, Mr. Sunderline,
why a man should be paid any more than a woman, for standing behind a counter and measuring
off the same goods, or at a desk and keeping the same accounts? I don't! That's what I'm complaining
of."

"That's the complaint of the day, I know," said Sunderline. "And no doubt there's a good deal
of special unfairness that needs righting, and will get it. But things don't come to be as
they are quite without a reason, either. There's a principle in it, you've got to look back
to that."

"Well?" said Marion, gleefully interrogatory, and settling herself with an air of attention,
and of demurely giving up the floor. She was satisfied to listen, if only Frank Sunderline
would talk.

"I believe I see what you meant," he said to Ray. "About the values that things stand for.
A man represents a certain amount of power in the world."

"O, does he?" put in Marion, with an indescribable inflection. "I'm glad to know."

"He could be doing some things that a woman could not do at all--was never meant to do. He
stands for so much force. You may apply things as you please, but if you don't use them according
to their relative capacity, the unused value has to be paid for--somewhere."

"That's a nice principle!" said Marion. "I like that I should like to be paid for what I might
be good for!"

Frank Sunderline laughed.

"It's a good principle; because by it things settle themselves, in the long run. You may take
mahogany or pine to make a table, and one will answer the common convenience of a table as
well as the other; but you will learn not to take mahogany when the pine will serve the purpose.
You will keep it for what the pine wouldn't be fit for; which wouldn't come to pass if the
pine weren't cheapest. Women wouldn't get those places to tend counters and keep books, if
the world hadn't found out that it was poor economy, as a general rule, to take men for it."

"But what do you say about mental power? About pay for teaching, for instance?" asked Ray.

"Why, you're coming round to my side!" exclaimed Marion. "I should really like to know where
you are?"

"I am wherever I can get nearest to the truth of things," said Ray, smiling.

"That," said Sunderline, "is one of the specialties that is getting righted. Women are being
paid more, in proportion, for intellectual service, and the nearer you come to the pure mental
power, the nearer you come to equality in recompense. A woman who writes a clever book, or
paints a good picture, or sculptures a good statue, can get as much for her work as a man.
But where time is paid for,--where it is personal service,--the old principle at the root of
things comes in. Men open up the wildernesses, men sail the seas, work the mines, forge the
iron, build the cities, defend the nations while they grow, do the physical work of the world,
make way for all the finishings of education and opportunity that come afterward, and that
put women where they are to-day. And men must be counted for such things. It is man's work
that has made these women's platforms. They have the capital of strength, and capital draws
interest. The right of the strongest isn't necessarily oppression by the strongest. That's
the way I look at it. And I think that what women lose in claim they gain in privilege."

"Only when women come to knock about the world without any claims, they don't seem to get much
privilege," said Marion.

"I don't know. It seems rude to say so, perhaps, but they find a world ready made to knock
round in, don't they? And it is because there's so much done that they couldn't have done themselves,
that they find the chances waiting for them that they do. And the chances are multiplying with
civilization, all the time. You see the question really goes back to first conditions, and
lies upon the fact that first conditions may come back any day,--do come back, here and there,
continually. Put man and woman together on the primitive earth, and it is the man that has
got to subdue it; the woman is what Scripture calls her,--the helpmeet. And my notion is that
if everything was right, a woman never should have to 'knock round alone.' It isn't the real
order of Providence. I think Providence has been very much interfered with."

"There are widows," said Rachel, gently.

"Yes; and the 'fatherless and the widows' are everybody's charge to care for. I said--if things
were right. I wish the energy was spent in bringing round the right that is used up in fitting
things to the wrong."

"They say there are too many women in the world altogether!" said Marion, squarely.

"I guess not--for all the little children," said Frank Sunderline; and his tone sounded suddenly
sweet and tender.

He was helping them out of the car, now, at the village station, and they went up the long
steps to the street. All three walked on without more remark, for a little way. Then Marion
broke out in her odd fashion,--

"Ray Ingraham! you've got a home and everything sure and comfortable. Just tell me what you'd
do, if you were a widow and fatherless or anything, and nobody took you in charge."

"The thing I knew best, I suppose," said Rachel, quietly. "I think very likely I could be--a
baker. But I'm certain of this much," she added lightly. "I never would make a brick loaf;
that always seemed to me a man's perversion of the idea of bread."

A small boy was coming down the street toward them as she spoke, from the bake-shop door; a
brick loaf sticking out at the two ends of an insufficient wrap of yellow brown paper under
his arm.

As Ray glanced on beyond him, she caught sight of that which put the brick loaf, and their
talk, instantly out of her mind. The doctor's chaise,--the horse fastened by the well-known
strap and weight,--was standing before the house. She quickened her steps, without speaking.

"I say," called out the urchin at the same moment, looking up at her as he passed by with a
queer expression of mixed curiosity and knowing eagerness,--"Yer know yer father's sick? Fit--or
sunthin'!"

But Ray made no sign--to anybody. She had already hurried in toward the side door, through
the yard, under the elm.

A neighborly looking woman--such a woman as always "steps in" on an emergency--met her at the
entrance. "He's dreadful sick, I'm afraid, dear," she said, reaching out and putting her hand
on Ray's shoulder. "The doctor's up-stairs; ben there an hour. And I believe my soul every
identical child in the village's ben sent in for a brick loaf."

Marion and Sunderline kept on down the Underhill road. The conversation was broken off. It
was a startling occurrence that had interrupted it; but it does not need startling occurrences
to turn aside the chance of talk just when one would have said something that one was most
anxious to say. A very little straw will do it. It is like a game at croquet. The ball you
want to hit lies close; but it is not quite your turn; a play intervenes; and before you can
be allowed your strike the whole attitude and aspect are changed. Nothing lies where it did
a minute before. You yourself are driven off, and forced into different combinations.

Marion wanted to try Sunderline with certain new notions--certain half-purposes of her own,
in the latter part of this walk they would have together. Everything had led nicely up to it;
when here, just at the moment of her opportunity, it became impossible to go on from where
they were. An event had thrust itself in. It was not seemly to disregard it. They could not
help thinking of the Ingrahams. And yet, "if it would have done," Marion Kent could have put
off her sympathies, made her own little point, and then gone back to the sympathies again,
just as really and truly, ten minutes afterward. They would have kept. Why are things jostled
up so?

"I am sorry for Ray," she said, presently.

Frank Sunderline, with a grave look, nodded his head thoughtfully, twice.

"If anything happens to Mr. Ingraham, won't it be strange that I should have asked her what
I did, just that minute?"

"What? O, yes!"

It had fairly been jostled out of the young man's mind. They walked on silently again. But
Marion could not give it up.

"I don't doubt she would be a baker; carry on the whole concern,--if there was money. She keeps
all her father's accounts, now."

"Does she?"

"She wouldn't have had the chance if there had been a boy. That's what I say isn't fair."

"I think you are mistaken. You can't change the way of the world. There isn't anything to hinder
a woman's doing work like that,--even going on with it, as you say,--when it is set for her
by special circumstances. It's natural, and a duty; and the world will treat her well and think
the more of her. Things are so that it is getting easier every day for it to be done. The facilities
of the times can't help serving women as much as men. But people won't generally bring up their
daughters to the work or the prospects that they do their sons, simply because they can't depend
upon them in the same way afterwards. If a girl marries,--and she ought to if she can right,"--

"And what if she has to, if she can, wrong?"

"Then she interferes with Providence again. She hasn't patience. She takes what wasn't meant
for her, and she misses what was; whether it's work, or--somebody to work for her."

They were coming near Mrs. Kent's little white gate.

"I've a great mind to tell you," said Marion, "I don't have anybody to help me judge."

Sunderline was a little disconcerted. It is a difficult position for a young man to find himself
in: that of suddenly elected confidant and judge concerning a young woman's personal affairs;
unless, indeed, he be quite ready to seek and assume the permanent privilege. It is a hazardous
appeal for a young woman to make. It may win or lose, strengthen or disturb, much.

"Your mother"--began Sunderline.

"O, mother doesn't see; she doesn't understand. How can she, living as she does? I could make
her advise me to suit myself. She never goes about. The world has run ahead of her. She says
I must conclude as I think best."

Sunderline was silent.

"I've a chance," said Marion, "if I will take it. A chance to do something that I like, something
that I think I could do. I can't stand the shops; there's a plenty of girls that are crazy
for the places; let them have 'em. And I can't stay at home and iron lace curtains for other
folks, or go round to rip up and make over other folks' old dirty carpets. I don't mean mother
shall do it much longer. This is what I can do: I can get on to the lecture list, for reading
and reciting. The Leverings,--you remember Virginia Levering, who gave a reading here last
winter; her father was with her,--Hamilton Levering, the elocutionist? Well, I know them very
well; I've got acquainted with them since; they say they'll help me, and put me forward. Mr.
Levering will give me lessons and get me some evenings. He thinks I would do well. And next
year they mean to go out West, and want me to go with them. Would you?"

Marion looked eagerly and anxiously in Sunderline's face as she asked the question. He could
not help seeing that she cared what he might think. And on his part, he could not help caring
a good deal what she might do. He did not like to see this girl, whom he had known and been
friends with from childhood, spoilt. There was good, honest stuff in her, in spite of her second-rate
vanities and half-bred ambitions. If she would only grow out of these, what a womanly woman
she might be! That fair, grand-featured face of hers, what might it not come to hold and be
beautiful with, if it could once let go its little airs and consciousnesses that cramped it?
It had a finer look in it now than she thought of, as she waited with real ingenuous solicitude,
his answer.

He gave it gravely and conscientiously.

"I don't think I have any business to advise. But I don't exactly believe in that sort of thing.
It isn't a genuine trade."

"Why not? People like it. Virginia Levering makes fifty dollars a night, even when they have
to hire a hall."

"And how often do the nights come? And how long is it likely to last?"

"Long enough to make money, I guess," said Marion, laughing. She was a little reassured at
Sunderline's toleration of the idea, even so far as to make calm and definite objection. "And
it's pleasant at the time. I like going about. I like to please people. I like to be somebody.
It may be silly, but that's the truth."

"And what would you be afterward, when you had had your day? For none of these days last long,
especially with women."

"O!" exclaimed Marion, with remonstrative astonishment. "Mrs. Kemble! Charlotte Cushman!"

"It won't do to quote them, I'm afraid. I suppose you'd hardly expect to come up into that
row?" said Sunderline, smiling.

"They began, some time," returned Marion.

"Yes; but for one thing, it wasn't a time when everybody else was beginning. Shall I tell you
plainly how it seems to me?"

"I wish you would."

They had walked slowly for the last three or four minutes, till they had come to the beginning
of the paling in which, a little further on, was the white gate. They paused here; Frank Sunderline
rested his box of tools on the low wall that ran up and joined the fence, and Marion turned
and stood with her face toward him in the western light, and her little pink-lined linen sunshade
up between her and the low sun,--between her and the roadway also, down which might come any
curious passers-by.

"It seems to me," said Frank Sunderline, "that women are getting on to the platforms nowadays,
not so much for any real errand they have there, as just for the sake of saying, I'm here!
I think it is very much the 'to be seen of men' motive,--the poorest part of women's characters,--that
plays itself out in this way, as it always has done in dancing and dressing and acting, and
what not. It isn't that a woman might not be on a platform, if she were called there, as well
as anywhere else. There never was a woman came out before the world in any grand, true way,
that she wasn't all the more honored and attended to because she was a woman. There are some
things too good to be made common; things that ought to be saved up for a special time, so
that they may be special. If it falls to a woman to be a Queen, and to open and dismiss her
Parliament, nobody in all the kingdom but thinks the words come nobler and sweeter for a woman's
saying them. But that's because she is put there, not because she climbs up some other way.
If a woman honestly has something that she must say--some great word from the Lord, or for
her country, or for suffering people,--then let her say it; and every real woman's husband,
and every real mother's son, will hear her with his very heart. Or if even she has some sure
wonderful gift,--if she can sing, or read, or recite; if she can stir people up to good and
beautiful things as one in a thousand, that's her errand; let her do it, and let the thousand
come to hear. But she ought to be certain sure, or else she's leaving her real errand behind.
Don't let everybody, just because the door is open, rush in without any sort of a pass or countersign.
That's what it's coming to. A sham trade, like hundreds of other sham trades; and the shammer
and the shamefuller, because women demean themselves to it. I can't bear to see women changing
so, away from themselves. We shan't get them back again, this generation. The homes are going.
Young men of these days have got to lose their wives--that they ought to have--and their homes
that they looked forward to, such as their mothers made. It's hard upon them; it takes away
their hopes and their motives; it's as bad for them as for the women. It's the abomination
of desolation standing in the holy place. There's no end to the mischief; but it works first
and worst with exactly girls of your class--our class, Marion. Girls that are all upset out
of their natural places, and not really fit for the new things they undertake to do. As I said,--how
long will it last? How long will the Mr. Hamilton Leverings put you forward and find chances
for you? Just as long as you are young and pretty and new. And then, what have you got left?
What are you going to turn round to?"

Sunderline stopped. The color flushed up in his face. He had spoken faster and freer and longer
than he had thought of; the feeling that he had in him about this thing, and the interest he
had in Marion Kent, all rushed to words together, so that he almost forgot that Marion Kent
in bodily presence stood listening before him, he was dealing so much more with his abstract
thought of her, and his notion of real womanhood.

But Marion Kent did stand there. She flushed up too, when he said, "We are going to lose our
wives by it." What did he mean? Would he lose anything, if she took to this that she thought
of, and went abroad into the world, and before it? Why didn't he say so, then? Why didn't he
give her the choice?

But what difference need it make, in any such way? Why shouldn't a girl be doing her part beforehand,
as a man does? He was getting ahead in his trade, and saving money. By and by, he would think
he had got enough, and then he would ask somebody to be his wife. What should the wife have
been doing in the mean time--before she was sure that she should ever be a wife? Why shouldn't
she look out for herself?

She said so.

"I don't see exactly, Mr. Sunderline."

She called him "Mr. Sunderline," though she remembered very well that in the earnestness of
his talk he had called her "Marion." They had grown to that time of life when a young man and
a girl who have known each other always, are apt to drop the familiar Christian name, and not
take up anything else if they can help it. The time when they carefully secure attention before
they speak, and then use nothing but pronouns in addressing each other. A girl, however, says
"Mr." a little more easily than a man says "Miss." The girl has always been "Miss" to the world
in general; the boy grows up to his manly title, and it is not a special personal matter to
give it to him. There is something, even, in the use of it, which delicately marks an attitude--not
of distance, but of a certain maidenly and bewitching consciousness--in a girl friend grown
into a woman, and recognizing the man.

"I don't see, exactly, Mr. Sunderline," said Marion. "Why shouldn't a girl do the best she
can? Will she be any the worse for it afterwards? Why should the wives be all spoilt, any more
than the husbands?"

"Real work wouldn't spoil; only the sham and the show. Don't do it, Marion. I wouldn't want
my sister to, if I had one--there!"

He had not meant so directly to answer her question. He came to this end involuntarily.

Marion felt herself tingle from head to foot with the suddenness of the negative that she had
asked for and brought down upon herself. Now, if she acted, she must act in defiance of it.
She felt angrily ashamed, too, of the position in which his words put her; that of a girl seeking
notoriety, for mere show's sake; desiring to do a sham work; to make a pretension without a
claim. How did he know what her claim might be? She had a mind to find out, and let him see.
Sister! what did he say that for? He needn't have talked about sisters, or wives either, after
that fashion. Spoilt! Well, what should she save herself for? It was pretty clear it wouldn't
be much to him.

The color died down, and she grew quiet, or thought she did. She meant to be very quiet; very
indifferent and calm. She lifted up her eyes, and there was a sort of still flash in them.
Now that her cheek was cool, they burned,--burned their own color, blue-gray that deepened
almost into black.

"I've a good will, however," she said slowly, "to find out what I can do. Perhaps neither you
nor I know that, yet. Then I can make up my mind. I rather believe in taking what comes. A
bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. Very likely nobody will ever care particularly whether
I'm spoilt or not. And if I'm spoilt for one thing, I may be made for another. There have got
to be all sorts of people in the world, you know."

She was very handsome, with her white chin up, haughtily; her nose making its straight, high
line, as she turned her face half away; her eyes so dark with will, and the curve of hurt pride
in her lips that yet might turn easily to a quiver. She spoke low and smooth; her words dropped
cool and clear, without a tone of temper in them; if there was passionate force, it was from
a fire far down.

If she could do so upon a stage; if she could look like that saying other people's words--words
out of a book: if she could feel into the passions of a world, and interpret them; then, indeed!
But Marion Kent had never entered into heights and depths of thought and of experience; she
knew only Marion Kent's little passions as they came to her, and spoke themselves in homely,
unchoice words. Mrs. Kemble or Charlotte Cushman might have made a study from that face that
would have served for a Queen Katharine; but Queen Katharine's grand utterances would never
have thrilled Marion Kent to wear the look as she wore it now, piqued by the plain-speaking--and
the not speaking--of the young village carpenter.

"I hope you don't feel hurt with me; I've only been honest, and I meant to be kind," said Frank
Sunderline.

"No, indeed; I dare say you did," returned Marion. "After all, everybody has got to judge for
themselves. I was silly to think anybody could help me."

"Perhaps you could help yourself better," said the young man, loth to leave her in this mood,
"if you thought how you would judge for somebody you cared for. If your own little sister"--

Now the quiver came. Now all the hurt, and pique, and shame, and jealous disappointment rushed
together to mingle and disguise themselves with a swell and pang that always rose in her at
the name of her little dead sister,--dead six years ago, when she was nine and Marion twelve.

The tears sprang to the darkened eyes, and quenched down their burning; the color swept into
her face, like the color after a blow; the lips gave way; and with words that came like a cry
she exclaimed passionately,--

"Don't speak of little Sue! I can't bear it! I never could! I don't know what I say now. Good-night,
good-by."

And she left him there with his box upon the wall; turned and hurried along the path, and in
through the little white gate.

CHAPTER IV.

NINETY-NINE FAHRENHEIT.

Rodney Sherrett got up from the breakfast table, where he had eaten half an hour later than
the rest of the family, threw aside the newspaper that had served to accompany his meal as
it had previously done his father's, and walked out through the conservatory upon the slope
of lawn scattered over with bright little flower-beds, among which his sister, with a large
shade hat on, and a pair of garden scissors and a basket in her hands, was moving about, cutting
carnations and tea-roses and bouvardia and geranium leaves and bits of vines, for her baskets
and shells and vases.

"I say, Amy, why haven't you been over to the Argenters' this long while? Why don't you get
Sylvie here?"

"Why, I did go, Rod! Just when you asked me to. And she has been here; she called three weeks ago."

"O, poh! After the spill! Of course you did. Just called; and she called. Why need that be
the end of it? Why don't you make much of her? I can tell you she's a girl you might make much
of. She behaved like a lady, that day; and a woman,--that's more. She was neither scared nor
mad; didn't scream, nor pout; nor even stand round to keep up the excitement. She was just
cool and quiet, and took herself off properly. I don't know another girl that would have done
so. She saved me out of the scrape as far as she was concerned; she might have made it ten
times the muss it was. I'd rather run down a whole flock of sheep than graze the varnish off
a woman's wheel, as a general principle. There's real backbone to Sylvie Argenter, besides
her prettiness. My father would like her, I know. Why don't you bring her here; get intimate
with her? I can't do it,--too fierce, you know."

Amy Sherrett laughed.

"What a nice little cat's-paw a sister makes! Doesn't she, Rod?"

"I wonder if cats don't like chestnuts too, sometimes," said Rod; and then he whistled.

"What a worry you are, Rod!" said Amy, with a little frown that some pretty girls have a way
of making; half real and half got up for the occasion; a very becoming little pucker of a frown
that seems to put a lovely sort of perplexed trouble into the beautiful eyes, only to show
how much too sweet and tender they really are ever to be permitted a perplexity, and what a
touching and appealing thing it would be if a trouble should get into them in any earnest.
"In term time I'm always wishing it well over, for fear of what dreadful thing you may do next;
and when it is vacation, it gets to be so much worse, here and there and everywhere, that I'm
longing for you to be safe back in Cambridge."

"Coming home Saturday nights? Well, you do get about the best of me so. And we fellows get
just the right little sprinkle of family influence, too. It loses its affect when you have
it all the time. That's what I tell Truesdaile, when he goes on about home, and what a thing
it is to have a sister,--he doesn't exactly say my sister; I suppose he believes in the tenth
commandment. By the way, he's knocking round at the seashore some where using up the time.
I've half a mind to hunt him up and get him back here for the last week or so. I think he'd
like it."

"Nonsense, Rod! You can't. When Aunt Euphrasia's away."

"She would come back, if you asked her; wouldn't she? I think it would be a charity. Put it
to her as an opportunity. She'd drop anything she might be about for an opportunity. I wonder
if she ever goes back upon her tracks and finishes up? She's something like a mowing machine:
a grand good thing, but needs a scythe to follow round and pick out the stumps and corners."

Amy shook her head.

"I don't believe I'll ask her, Rod. She's perfectly happy up there in New Ipswich, painting
wild flowers and pressing ferns, and swinging those five children in her hammock, and carrying
them all to drive in her pony-wagon, and getting up hampers of fish and baskets of fruit, and
beef sirloins by express, and feeding them all up, and paying poor dear cousin Nan ten dollars
a week for letting her do it. I guess it's my opportunity to get along here without her, and
let her stay."

"Incorruptible! Well--you're a good girl, Amy. I must come down to plain soft-sawder. Put some
of those things together prettily, as you know how, and drive over and take them to Sylvie
Argenter this afternoon, will you?"

"Fish and fruit and sirloins!"

"Amy, you're an aggravator!"

"No. I'm only grammatical. I'm sure those were the antecedents."

"If you don't, I will."

"If you will, I will too, Rod! Drive me over, that's a good boy, and I'll go."

Amy seized with delicate craft her opportunity for getting her brother off from one of his
solitary, roaming expeditions with Red Squirrel that ended too often in not being solitary,
but in bringing him into company with people who knew about horses, or had them to show, and
were planning for races, and who were likely to lead Rodney, in spite of his innate gentlemanhood,
into more of mere jockeyism than either she or her father liked.

"But the flowers, I fancy, Rod, would be coals to Newcastle. They have a greenhouse."

"And have never had a decent man to manage it. It came to nothing this year. She told me so.
You see it just is a literal new castle. Mr. Argenter is too busy in town to look after it;
and they've been cheated and disappointed right and left. They're not to blame for being new,"
he continued, seeing the least possible little lifted look about Amy's delicate lips and eyebrows.
"I hate that kind of shoddiness."

"'Don't fire--I'll come down,'" said Amy, laughing. "And I don't think I ever get very far
up, beyond what's safe and reasonable for a"--

"Nice, well-bred little coon," said Rodney, patting her on the shoulder, in an exuberance of
gracious approval and beamingly serene content. "I'll take you in my gig with Red Squirrel,"
he added, by way of reward of merit.

Now Amy in her secret heart was mortally afraid of Red Squirrel, but she would have been upset
ten times over--by Rodney--sooner than say so.

When Sylvie Argenter, that afternoon, from her window with its cool, deep awning, saw Rodney
Sherrett and his sister coming up the drive, there flashed across her, by a curious association,
the thought of the young carpenter who had gone up the village street and bowed to Ray Ingraham,
the baker's daughter.

After all, the gentleman's "place," apart and retired, and the long "approach," were not so
very much worse, when the "people in the carriages,"--the right people,--really came: and "on
purpose" was not such a bad qualification of the coming, either.

And when Mrs. Argenter, hearing the bell, and the movement of an arrival, and not being herself
summoned in consequence, rung in her own room for the maid, and received for answer to her
inquiry,--"Miss Sherrett and young Mr. Sherrett, ma'am, to see Miss Sylvie,"--she turned back
to her volume of "London Society," much and mixedly reconciled in her thoughts to two things
that occurred to her at once,--one of them adding itself to the other as manifestly in the
same remarkable order of providence; "that tip-out" from the basket-phæton, and the new white
frill-trimmed polonaise that Miss Sylvie would put on, so needlessly, this afternoon, in spite
of her remonstrance that the laundress had just left without warning, and there was no knowing
when they should ever find another.

"There is certainly a fate in these matters," she said to herself, complacently. "One thing
always follows another."

Mrs. Argenter was apt to make to herself a "House that Jack built" out of her providences.
She had always a little string of them to rehearse in every history; from the malt that lay
in the house, and the rat that ate the malt, up to the priest all shaven and shorn, that married
the man that kissed the maid--and so on, all the way back again. She counted them up as they
went along. "There was the overturn," she would say, by and by "and there was Rodney Sherrett's
call because of that, and then his sister's because no doubt he asked her, and then their both
coming together; and there was your pretty white polonaise, you know, the day they did come;
and there was"--Mrs. Argenter has not counted up to that yet. Perhaps it may be a long while
before she will so readily count it in.

It had turned out a hot day; one of those days in the nineties, when if you once hear from
the thermometer, or in any way have the fact forcibly brought home to you, you relinquish all
idea of exertion yourself, and look upon the world outside as one great pause, out of which
no movement can possibly come, unless there first come the beneficence of an east wind, which
the dwellers on Massachusetts Bay have always for a reserve of hope. Yet it may quite well
occur to here and there an individual with a resolute purpose in the day, to actually live
through it and pursue the intended plan, without realizing the extra degrees of Fahrenheit
at all, and to learn with surprise at set of sun when the deeds are done, of the excelsior
performances of the mercury. With what secret amazement and dismay is one's valor recognized,
however, when it has led one to render one's self at four in the afternoon on such a day, near
one's friend who has been vividly conscious of the torrid atmosphere! Did you ever make or
receive such an afternoon call?

Mrs. Argenter, comfortable in her thin wrapper, reading her thin romance, did not trouble herself
to be astonished. "They were young people; young people could do anything," she dimly thought;
and putting the white polonaise into the structure of the House that Jack built, she interrupted
herself no farther than presently to ring her bell again, and tell the maid on no account to
admit any one to see herself, and to be sure that there were plenty of raspberries brought
in for tea.

Meanwhile, away in the cities, the thermometer had climbed and climbed. Pavements were blistering
hot; watering carts went lumbering round only to send up a reek of noisome mist and to leave
the streets whitening again a few yards behind them. Blinds were closed up and down the avenues,
where people had either long left their houses vacant or were sheltering themselves in depths
of gloom in the tomb-like coolness of their double walls. Builders' trowels and hammers had
a sound that made you think of sparks struck out, as if the world were a great forge and all
its matter at a white heat. Down in the poor, crowded places, where the gutters fumed with
filth, and doors stood open upon horrible passages and staircases, little children, barefooted,
with one miserable garment on, sat on grimy stone steps, or played wretchedly about the sidewalks,
impeding the passers of a better class who hastened with bated breath, amidst the fever-breeding
nuisances, along to railway stations whence they would escape to country and sea-side homes.

On the wharves was the smell of tarred seams and cordage,--sweltering in the sun; in the counting-rooms
the clerks could barely keep the drops of moisture from their faces from falling down to blot
their toilsome lines of figures on the faultless pages of the ledgers; on the Common, common
men surreptitiously stretched themselves in shady corners on the grass, regardless of the police,
until they should be found and ordered off; little babies in second-rate boarding-houses, where
their fathers and mothers had to stay for cheapness the summer through wailed the helpless,
pitiful cry of a slowly murdered infancy; and out on the blazing thoroughfares where business
had to be busy, strong men were dropping down, and reporters were hovering about upon the skirts
of little crowds, gathering their items; making their hay while this terrible sun was shining.

What did Mrs. Argenter care?

The sun would be going down now, in a little while; then the cool piazzas, and the raspberries
and cream, and the iced milk,--yellow Alderney milk,--would be delightful. Not just in ecclesiastical spirit. From good
Catholic home was Ludwig Speidel for their own person in any of the recognized Denominations
accommodate. The official belief in God did not last long in his youthful Soul, and heaven, as he explains
in his first essay, had him at an early stage an infinite space of natural forces expanded.
It is therefore in this "Holy Times, "get to read some unholy thoughts, but eventually carry
the impression that this book is all pervaded by a deep religious feeling, which only a certain Creed
bind absolutely can not. We gain insights into the Treasures of a genuinely religious spirit. Meister
Louis was not a man of liquid speech, no by those who wear her beautiful heart complacent on
the palm. What makes him the most powerful moving, of which he kept on persevering, as he feared
that his feelings could be achieved by the spoken word be desecrated. Every now and then just - and
this was just his "sacred Times "- he overcame the urge to tell his friends, what were they
to him. Even He said they do not face, even he had his most personal to the universal, wrote about
women in general, about the children in the broad area, so of course intimately and so deeply
dug up, heart sounds, that you knew very well, as here, the love of the own wife, mitklang to
their own children between the lines. This personal impact gave such recording their wondrous
charm, its homey warmth, their extraordinary Success. A Christmas Papers of Ludwig Speidel!
Many Viennese should remember how we once looked forward to this annual Christmas gift, with which
worship is set to Set the rare gift tasted, and we are convinced the younger readers of today those do
not punish older lies.

Vienna, November 1910.

The editor.

                                          

Contents

At Christmas 1

Lone sparrows 12

Old Girl 17

Woman Age
23

'S of Rickie Munter Überkingen 29

The art of being poor are 43

Two
children 49

Without nut 58

Mother and child 64

From the world of
children 70

From the nursery 79

Fabulous 87

Mirror Image 94

The
Oberammergau Christmas pageant 101

The sense of home by the Brothers
Grimm 114

At Christmas

I have seen many Christmas trees in my life,
but none I liked so well and like I feel better with every year than
the tree that I establish my children.

Certainly there were happy days, as you with his little child's heart
still believed in miracles and signs, Advent angels nor where in the
window and knocked in the room, through which they flew, Pine cones
and pieces of tinsel left behind, until finally the little boy of
Bethlehem the Saviour of the small children in person in the house
tried to with a liberal hand the spread abundance of his gifts.

Certainly considered such innocent faith, especially in countries
with compulsory school attendance, not long ago.

The schoolmaster is the born enemy of romance and ABC are the black
art that heaven and hell forces.

How deeply had the unrestricted Credit, which you paid the old company
God the Father, Son and Holy Spirit shaken to be a beautiful Christmas
evening when a naughty schoolboy eyes on the leather clown the price
tag with the stamp: "Simon Mayer and son," discovered and deciphered?

Those who read may already half is of the devil, and who completely
writes that belongs to him body and soul.

Yet it transforms the Enlightenment not entirely, for while it gives
us the vague ideas destroyed, they hardly stirred in the dark feelings,
the result of which those ideas.

She takes the tooth and makes the roots are.

Thus, it may as well happen that otherwise sober Men who have already
passed the age Swabia and thoroughly the church incense averse are
the aroma of an extinguished candle thread or the smell of burnt Fir
frond in a flow of feeling are drawn, extending from the effusion
religious feelings are not too far away.

And those of feeling accompanying us in the Strangers awake and here
at Christmas time with double vividness.

The Christmas tree the stranger finds us as a yearning, stupid child.

No trübseligeres lot, as in by converting the foreign city streets
alone and look without cozy relationship with the need, as in the
windows of a tree after the other turns on and is dark, as if we all
of no concern.

Therefore, we bless the good people at the bachelor of Christmas
joy can take him pretend for a moment a family.

Is probably him the deception is palpable, and his thoughts are skipping
the illusion of presence, wander back to childhood and the childhood
home, he may intend a beloved dead Mother, an aging father, siblings,
love, or else fate after all Wind has scattered.

Unlike in the past taken his eye, the twinkling lights of the green
Desire tree, they break into darker colors inside, the seriousness
of life, its changing Fortunes appear on the horizon of the soul.

He is no longer a child, and he does not have any Children.

Only when he brought home his beloved wife, when she presented him
with pledges of love, Then it blossomed into a second youth, and he
is again with the full understanding before Christmas stand.

The world he is certainly now become clear. The sky has him at a infinite space of natural forces
expanded, but smiling and does not see without emotion his religious ideas as a toy in the
hands of his children. The Christmas tree to look through the eyes of these little citizens
of the world, is the most blissful pleasure, and therefore I like most of all Christmas trees,
the tree just best that I establish my children.

Yes, Christmas is the big Children's Day of the year, and it behooves probably a reflection about
what we are these little creatures. I would like to ask women about it, because they the children
are so much closer than we are, we always exclude a little similar to us, like the good Joseph,
who helps to form the group of the holy family. But there are maybe the women the children
are too close, in a sense, even to many children as that they are eloquent about their own cause could.
The man takes here, as elsewhere get the word out. Now the bubble man two living sources of
rejuvenation: the women and the children to which I as the third or the animals, as the eternally-age
siblings of people would like to count. to praise the women to repeat that she was born to love and
grace that they are heroes in the endurance of suffering and the selfless dedication and Sacrifice would
be to start a vain, because the price of women through the ages and tongues sounds and the poets today
as yesterday not faint, the most fascinating phenomenon of to celebrate nature in soft words and
wise. The child is but like a new jewelry and Charm of femininity in the womb of the mother, and rarely
does the writer of this blissful retreat to in order to close in the arms and hearts to it
and kiss. And yet, the power that exerts such a small greenhouse on us, as it intervenes in
the course of our Life! It is the arrogant illusion when we seem to us zapplige raised about
this, vielbegehrliche Brut, because if we just roll over, we are in most cases, the Our children's
children, if not worse, a fool. We believe children make and made of them, we believe in raising
children and are educated by them. And although this latter in a very good sense. Into our artificial
conditions are we suddenly so small a country boy born. As naked as naughty as improper according
to our refined concept is such a little person, as stubborn as despotic it submits his wishes!
From the breast of the mother as it takes possession of an eternal Human rights and fills the air with
a shout, as if to no one but him the World would be. But just this irrefutable demeanor makes us
love this little thing and worth, and it confronts us as a nature as an imperious will, the
reason we . See As in this first, the blind will stimulate mental powers, like the eye seeing
is, listening ear, and as the desire takes gradually the word that is connected to each newborn Child
a new wonder and love for the people watching a play, whose stimuli never be exhausted. This
closed and secure nature of the child and the encroaching loving immersion in his character to
make the fact understand that in the opinion of the Parents of every child is beautiful and clever. Even
the common man feels from the child which spring from a untrained, not cut out scattered nature
of genius, and the most sober makes his little girl who reaches for the moon, the poet at moments.
The children and will make us young, and idealize even the grief and worry, it causes us our lives.

When
we decorate Christmas trees and therefore they set equipped with lights, we carry our young teachers
in a sense, the customs of our appreciation from.

Today I would like in many windows read into it and see the rivalry of happiness on the faces
of small and great; urge the noisy kids in little rooms I would listen how quiet bliss of parents,
an only child - "a" trembling happiness - call their own. To sick I can not imagine children at
Christmas time, much less like I imagine that death has somewhere knocked and a young fledge
made little soul. I can not comfort To get where I would do without him yourself. But remember
your I want her depressed Beings that you shy away from the bright glow of the candles and presses you
into a corner of the room. What is it that troubles you prepared? That you on the left leg a
little limp, You good boy, let's not up to challenge, your legs are straight enough to do your
duty to do. And you, with your blond braids, you sensible face, Do not fret too much, you that
one shoulder is moved, you have humor and accessing skills, you will straight shoulders, despite
exercise once a good spirit of the household. You will be more trusting, Brest her about them,
and all come out gradually from the corner. See, I have nothing to comfort you, as a good will
and good words. Are we in the general images of God, it is found in you sprained the one who
twisted God. He bears it, and you ought can not endure? Do you want to know which delicious
secrets you stick in your brest Berget limbs, I will tell you a tale that is as true as the great
Tale of the creation of the world and world government, and perhaps true, because it just
is a fairy tale. Although not myself so much I wanted this story have invented but another
German man, was located in the most recent major international struggle against Paris and in
his leisure hours, which gave him his hard work, a ribbon 'dreams of French has co-written
chimneys "for wife and children. A young doctor of philosophy from Schwab has left this small
book to my children last summer as a gift. »'S a nice ish's Buechler," he said in his confidential
dialect,' for which I begeischtert I, and for which I demand of every righteous man Begeischterung.
"I left it read to me from my children, and so for me the book, in which in addition to the
clever people an arrant rogue infected, very close to my heart. So I promised my dear congregation
of brest-like children, tell them a fairy tale, but has to leave of her earlier Take me for
who wanted to see if the poet has spoken? Also, I'm afraid a rain and cloudy eyes, and may not
want to be there when people are touched. The beautiful fairy tale is to say, and reads:

The little hunchback girl.

There once was a woman who had one daughter who was very small and pale and somewhat different
from other children. For if the woman was going out with him, were often the people stand, looked
at the child and whispered something. Then, when the little girl's Mother asked why people tend
to consider it as strange, the mother always said, "Because you wear such a beautiful pretty new dress.
"Then the little girl was happy. Kamen However, she returned home, the mother her baby daughter
in his arms, kissed it again and over again and said, "You dear, sweet angel heart, what will become of
you when I once'm dead?

No man knows what you are a dear angel, not even your father! "

After some time the mother became suddenly ill, and on the ninth day she died. As cast the
father of the little girl desperate for the death bed and wanted to with his Woman be buried.
His friends talked to him, however, and consoled him, so he left it, and after a year he took
another woman, beautiful, younger and richer than the first, but so good it was not for long.

And
the little girl had all the time, since his mother had died, every day sat morning till night
in the room on the windowsill, for it was found no one who wanted to go out with him. It had
become even paler, and it was grown in the last It very little.

So when the new mother came into the house, she thought: "Now will you go walk again, front
the city, in the sunshine on the pretty funny ways in which the beautiful shrubs and flowers are,
and where many people are dressed. "For it lived in a small, narrow streets, which shone in
the sun only rarely, and when you click on the window sill sat, we saw only a piece of blue sky,
the size of a handkerchief. The new mother went out every day, morning and afternoon. To this
end they pulled each time a beautiful had owned colorful dress, much nicer than the old one
each mother. But the little girl never took it with him.

Since the latter finally took a heart, and asked one day it will quite fervently they It would
take yet. But the new mother struck off her round, saying, "You are probably not very wise!
What will people think well if I see myself with you leave? You are quite bumpy. Hunchback children
never walk, that always remain at home. "

Then the little girl was very quiet, and soon leave the new mother's house, set it down on a
chair and looked at herself in the mirror, and honestly, it was bumpy, very hunchback! So she sat
down again on his window sill and looked down the street, and thought to his good old mother,
who had taken it every day. Then she thought again his hump:

"What is just in there?" She said to herself, "there must be something in such a hump in it."

And
the summer went, and when the winter came, the little girl was still paler, and so weak that
it became no longer could sit on the windowsill, but always had to lie in bed. And when the
snowdrops it's first green Spitzchen from the earth was stretched out, one night the good
old mother to him and told him, golden as and wonderful it looked
in the sky.

The next morning the little girl dead

! "Do not cry, man," said the new mother! "It is for the poor child is the best way And the Man
made no reply, but nodded his head.

And when the little girl was buried, an angel with big white swan wings came from Sky flew down
and sat down beside the grave and tapped it as if it were a door.

Soon the little girl came out from the grave, and the angel told him he had come to bring
it to his mother in the sky. As the little girl asked timidly whether because hunchbacked children
in the sky came. It could be that not even imagine, because It would be so nice and elegant
but in heaven.

However, the angel replied: "You dear, good child, you're not even bumpy," and! touched her
back with his white hand. There fell from the ugly old boss as a large hollow shell. And what
was it?

Two beautiful, white angel wings! It stretched out as if it had always been able to fly had,
and flew with the angels up through the sparkling sunshine in the blue sky. On the highest
place in heaven but his good old mother sat and spread his arms contrary. It flew straight into
her lap.

(On December 25, 1872)

Solitary sparrow

It is a gray bird with sharp eyes and sharp beak, in natural history the people of the lonely
sparrow is called, and the belligerent, despite his being a host of singing and melody carries
within itself. He did it gladly, if he is irritated, precisely the
Challenge with which he presents with pleasure, he proposes his bravest
tones and boldest statement on.

If you want him but get to know better and all, we must in a trap set, listen to him. Furthermore,
noise, especially the strange compound World noise, which resonates in the balance after rattling
all the joys and sufferings of the creature encourages him, makes him talkative. Then he miraculously
pulls strings sound from his throat, measures the extent of his voice was made to all degrees
of strength of the clay trying, in whispers, the swelling, in passing,
and while he is intoxicated with his own song, seems it to compete
with itself.

The world that separates him from his cage, flowers in his Tracks on.

The gray bird that we painted on the wall drives, even in human society are Beings. We need him
not to call, it calls him now, any self: the bachelor, the bachelor. We do not, of course,
the bachelor, who, knowing only itself to Egoists are petrified, even those bachelors who,
as a true family destroyer, in a foreign nest and put on to a warm
fire, the other one was set on fire.

The Bachelors who we think are rather those honest people who, by
misadventure clumsiness or isolated, the determination of the people
have only one side can meet and feel that half-measures for life than
a deficiency.

To put it short, her life is missing the woman, the child, whether they admit it now or in unguarded
moments, only to themselves acknowledge.

No wonder, then, that the great general family celebrations, the annual run brings with it, for
they are the worst days. Especially at Christmas, when the green Forest grows into the house and
the large children's eyes light up even brighter than the candles on the nodding down pine branches,
will hurt people that abandoned around the mind, and they feel it more than ever that they,
on such occasions when even the maid, a beam the general happiness is, are really at the door.
And no one should try it, to console a bachelor on such a day.

The true bachelor will not comforted be, he wants to have one unhappy, even the enjoyment of
his misfortune. When he realizes that The Christmas tree is lit - the light bites him in the
eye - he steals the Along streets and disappears in a house whose
doors down from a pine branch, the Temporary greets.

It is a wine bar.

The disgruntled world refugee sits in a corner, from where it overlooks the bar. The room is
empty and is still empty because it is brightly lit.

  The wall clock oscillates sharp and precise, as the conscience of
the time, only sometimes they seem to keep in mind, But the pendulum
brought out further blow following is an accelerated, and equilibrium
restored.

The stove warms the lonely guest at soothing.

A bottle of wine! Thoughtful He empties the first glass, the second faster. The pub table captures
his look, where to Top the bright shining wine cooler, some in straight lights, the other with
the whole Surface, the eye glides to some cut-crystal glasses down, the light brightly colored
and break so restless, as if they had something to say. A glass and another glass! While the
silent drinker the counter, can not from the eye, but without the brilliance of the sparkling
Harness more exercise, he hears the distant rolling of a carriage, which his ear for always
in the air, weaving the sound that you can call the world sound, opens. He listens deeper and deeper
into this sound, he will guess it in its individual components, . Recognize Gradually, sounds
seem to detach from the chaos, a note, two notes Three - a trio of tuned together by well-known
voices. The first note comes from a living mouth, he sounds so warm, so deep, so the heart speaking,
and behold, appears they themselves, the mother, as he knew in his youth. It takes lifts him
by the hand, him in his arms, kisses him.

Then she carries him to a small bed, in which a little girl is rosy, laughing. It is his sister,
the second sound, which he belongs. Now it embraces an atmosphere that he felt not long: a
cozy Heat radiation, a humanized air - the atmosphere of the family. He stands in front of the
Christmas tree; He pulls out red eggs under the bed, and he considers the birch on the mirror
secret-respect. He heard the father alternately friendly and strong - he sees let him go because
his father died young. Then the happy hours and days with his Sister, this unreserved communication,
this innocent tenderness, this love without In addition to thoughts - yes, thinks the silent
drinker, who empties a glass of whom the sky loves, he is a sister ... And the third voice, the
highest of the triad? The solitary guest gazes thoughtfully into his wine glass. As incense,
it rises, and he believes in the church to be. A marriage ceremony is performed, but the girl, at
the lovely shape his eye is, goes a stranger's hand. This "yes" from beloved lips, how did It
hurt, it still hurts like! A word at the wrong time, like mine, they alienated me! And then he
drank a glass, sighed and ran his hand across his forehead. The beautiful trio began to subside,
down from the highest tone in which only the fundamental, came from the mother, held on longer,
until he dissolved into the general hum, that was swallowed up by the wheels of a passing
moving car. Again shone the wine cooler over the bar, and the crystal glasses caught the light
and broke it in colorful Rays. On the clock, which raised his arm noisy, clock struck 1.

Crept through the silent deserted streets revelers home. Once in his room, presented he light from a large
cage, in which sat a gray bird, a lonely sparrow.

He provoked him with their fingers, and the lively animal flew at him with bright whistle. "Poor Guy,
"he shouted to the bird," where you have your mate? "And instead of answering, began the sparrow
to sing so beautiful in that the questioner was spellbound and listened. "You're right, good Animal
love who can not sing, must. And today I have not sung on my way internally, though dully? And
besides, I did much better than you, apart from the many starving girl's heart, which should be anything
but love.


"Mother has been entirely bewildered by all this trouble," said Sylvie, quietly, to Mr. Sherrett.
"I don't think she really understands. She has lived so long with things as they are, that
she cannot imagine them different. I think it is easier with me, because, you know, I haven't
been used to anything such a very long while."

Sylvie even smiled a tremulous little smile as she said this; and Mr. Sherrett looked at her
with one upon his own face that had as much pitiful tenderness in it as could have shown through
tears.

"You see we shall have to do something right off,--go somewhere; and mother can't change the
least thing. She can't spare Sabina, who has heard of a good place, and must go soon at any
rate, because nobody else would know where things belonged or are put away, or fetch her anything
she wanted. And the very things, I suppose, don't belong to us. How shall we break through
and begin again?" Sylvie looked up earnestly at Mr. Sherrett, asking this question. This was
what she really wanted to know.

"You will remove, I suppose?" said Mr. Sherrett "If you could hear of a house,--if you could
propose something definite,--if you and Sabina could begin to pack up,--how would that be?"

He met her inquiry with primary, practical suggestions, just what she needed, wasting no words.
He saw it was the best service he could do this little girl who had suddenly become the real
head of the household.

"I have thought, and thought," said Sylvie; "and after all, mother must decide. Perhaps she
wouldn't want to keep house. I don't know whether we could. She spoke once about boarding.
But boarding costs a great deal, doesn't it?"

"To live as you would need to,--yes."

"I should hate to have to manage small, and change round, in boarding. I know some people who
live so. It would give me a very mean feeling. It would be like trying to get a bite of everybody's
bread and butter. I'd rather have my own little loaf."

"You are a brave, true little woman," said Mr. Sherrett, warmly. "All you want is to be set
in the right direction, and see your way. You'll be sure to go on."

"I think I should. If mother can only be contented. I think I should rather like it. I could
understand living better. There would only be a little at a time. A great deal, and a great
many things, make it a puzzle."

"Have you any knowledge about the property?"

"Mr. Cardwell has been here two or three times. He says there are twelve thousand dollars secured
to mother by a note and mortgage on this place. It was money of hers that was put into it.
We shall have the income of that; and there might be things, perhaps, that we should have the
right to sell, or keep to furnish with. Seven and a half per cent, on twelve thousand dollars
would be nine hundred dollars a year. If we had to pay sixteen dollars a week to board, it
would take eight hundred and thirty-two; almost the whole of it. But perhaps we could find
a place for less; and our clothes would last a good while, I suppose."

Sylvie went through her little calculation, just as she had made it over and over before, all
by herself; she did not stop to think that she was doing the small sum now for the enlightenment
of the great Mr. Sherrett, who calculated in millions for himself and others, every day.

"You would hardly be comfortable in a house which you could rent for less than--say, four hundred
dollars, and that would leave very little for your living. Perhaps I should advise you to board."

"But we could do things, maybe, if we lived by ourselves, amongst other people in small houses.
We can't be two things, Mr. Sherrett, rich and poor; and it seems to me that is what we should
be trying for, if we got into a boarding-house. We should have to be idle and ashamed. I want
to take right hold. I'd like to earn something and make it do."

Sylvie's eyes really shone. The spirit that had worked in her as a little child, to make her
think it would be nice to be a "kitchen girl, and have a few things in boxes, and Sundays out,"
threw a charm of independence and enterprise and cosy thrift over her changed position, and
the chance it gave her. Mr. Sherrett wondered at the child, and admired her very much.

"Could you teach something? Could you keep a little school?"

"I've thought about it. But a person must know ever to much, nowadays, to keep even the least
little school. They want Kindergartens, and all the new plans, that I haven't learnt. And it's
just so about music. You must be scientific; and all I really know is a few little songs. But
I can dance well, Mr. Sherrett. I could teach that."

There was something pathetically amusing in this bringing to market of her one exquisite accomplishment,
learned for pleasure, and the suggestion of it at this moment, as she sat in her strange black
dress, with the pale, worn look on her face, in the home so shadowed by heavy trouble, and
about to pass away from their possession.

"You will be sure to do something, I see," said Mr. Sherrett. "Yes, I think you had better
have a quiet little home. It will be a centre to work from, and something to work for. You
can easily furnish it from this house. Whatever has to be done, you could certainly be allowed
such things as you might make a schedule of. Would you like me to talk for you with Mr. Cardwell,
and have something arranged?"

"O, if you would! Mother dreads the very sound of Mr. Cardwell's name, and the thought of business.
She cannot bear it now. But your advice would be so different!"

Sylvie knew that it would go far with Mrs. Argenter that Mr. Howland Sherrett, in the relation
of neighbor and friend, should plan and suggest for them, rather than Mr. Richard Cardwell,
a stranger and mere man of business, should come and tell them things that must be.

"I'm afraid you'll think I don't realize things, I've planned and imagined so much," Sylvie
began again, "but I couldn't help thinking. It is all I have had to do. There's a little house
in Upper Dorbury that always seemed to me so pretty and pleasant; and nobody lives there now.
At least, it was all shut up the last time I drove by. The house with the corner piazza and
the green side yard, and the dark red roof sloping down, just off the road in the shady turn
beside the bank that only leads to two other little houses beyond. Do you know?"

Mr. Sherrett did know. They were three houses built by members of the same family, some years
ago, upon an old village homestead property. Two of them had passed into other hands; one--this
one--remained in its original ownership, but had been rented of late; since the war, in which
the proprietor had made money, and with it had bought a city residence in Chester Park.

"You see we must go where things will be convenient. We can't ride round after them any more.
And we could get a girl up there, as other people do, for general housework. I'm afraid mother
wouldn't quite like being in the village, but of course there can't be anything that she would
quite like, now. And we aren't really separate people any longer; at least, we don't belong
to the separate kind of people, and I couldn't bear to be lonesomely separate. It's good to
belong to some kind of people; isn't it?"

"I think it is very good to belong to your kind, where-ever they are, Miss Sylvie. Tell your
mother I say she may be glad of her daughter. I'll find out about the house for you, at any
rate. And I'll see Mr. Cardwell; and I'll call again. Good-night, my dear. God bless you!"

And the grand Mr. Howland Sherrett pressed Sylvie Argenter's hand in both of his, as a father
might have pressed it, and went out with the feeling of a warm rush from his heart toward his eyes.

"That's a girl like a--whatever there is that means the noblest sort of woman, and I'm not
sure it is a queen!" he said to Rodney, as he seated himself in the chaise, and took the reins
from his son's hands.

Mr. Sherrett was apt to say to Rodney, "You may drive me to this or that place," but he was
very apt, also, to do the driving himself, after all; especially if he was somewhat preoccupied,
and forgot, as he did now.

The way Mr. Howland Sherrett inquired about the red-roofed house, was this:

He went down to Mr. John Horner's store, in Opal Street, and asked him what was the rent of it.

"Six hundred and fifty dollars."

"Rather high, isn't it, for the situation?"

"Not for the situation of the land, I guess," said Mr. Horner. "I'm paying annexation taxes."

"What will you sell the property for as it stands?"

"Eighty-five hundred dollars."

"I'll give you eight thousand, Mr. Horner, in cash, upon condition that you will not mention
its having changed hands. I have some friends whom I wish should live there," he added, lest
some deep speculating move should be surmised.

Mr. Horner thought for the space of thirty seconds, after the rapid, Opal Street fashion, and
said,--

"You may have it. When will you take the deed?"

"To-morrow morning, at eleven o'clock. Will that be convenient?"

"All right. Yes, sir."

And the next morning at eleven o'clock, the two gentlemen exchanged papers; Mr. Horner received
a check on the First National Bank for eight thousand dollars, and Mr. Sherrett the title-deed
to house and land on North Centre Street, Dorbury, known as part of the John Horner estate,
and bordering so and so, and so on.

The same afternoon, Mr. Sherrett called at Mrs. Argenter's, and told her of the quiet, pleasant,
retired, yet central house and garden in Upper Dorbury, which he found she could have on a
lease of two or three years, for a rent of three hundred and fifty dollars. It was in the hands
of a lawyer in the village, who would make out the lease and receive the payments. He had inquired
it out, and would conclude the arrangements for her, if she desired.

"I don't know that I desire anything, Mr. Sherrett. I suppose I must do what I can, since it
seems I am not to be left in my own home which I put my own money into. If it appears suitable
to you, I have no doubt it is right. I am very much obliged to you, I am sure. Sylvie knows
the house, and has an idea she likes it. She is childish, and likes changing. She will have
enough of it, I am afraid."

She did not even care to go over and inspect the house. Sylvie was glad of that, for she knew
it could be made to seem more homelike, if she and Sabina could get the parlor and her mother's
rooms ready before Mrs. Argenter saw it. During the removal, it was settled that they should
go and stay with Mrs. Lowndes, at River Point. This practically resulted in Mrs. Argenter's
remaining with her sister, while Sylvie and Sabina spent their time, night as well as day,
often, between Argenter Place and the new house.

Rodney Sherrett rode through the village one day, when they were busy there with their arrangements.

Sylvie stood on a high flight of steps in the bay-window, putting up some white muslin curtains,
with little frills on the edges. They had been in a sleeping-room at Argenter Place. All the
furniture of the house had been appraised, and an allowance made of two thousand dollars, to
which amount Mrs. Argenter might reserve such articles as she wished, at the valuation. So
much, and two thousand dollars in cash, were given her in exchange for her homestead and her
right of dower in the unincumbered portion of the estate, upon which was one other smaller
mortgage. No other real property appeared in the list of assets. Mr. Argenter had, unfortunately,
invested almost wholly in bonds, stocks, and those last ruinous mining ventures. The land out
in Colorado was useless, and besides, being wild land, did not come under the law of dower.

Mrs. Argenter thought it was all very strange, especially that a sum of money,--eighteen hundred
dollars, which was in her husband's desk, the proceeds of some little mortgage that he had
just sold,--was not hers to keep. She came very near stealing it from the estate, quietly appropriating
it, without meaning to be dishonest; regarding it as simply money in the house, which her husband
"would have given her, if she had wanted it, the very day before he died."

Possibly he might; but the day after he died, it was no longer his nor hers.

To go back to Sylvie in the bay-window. Rodney rode by, then wheeled about and came back as
far as the stone sidewalk before the Bank entrance. He jumped off, hitched Red Squirrel to
one of the posts that sentineled the curbstone, and passed quietly round into the "shady turn."

The front door was open, and boxes stood in the passage; he walked in as far as the parlor
door; then he tapped with his riding-whip against the frame of it. Sylvie started on her perch,
and began to come down.

"Don't stop. I couldn't help coming in, seeing you as I went by," said Rodney.

Sylvie sat down on one of the middle steps. She would rather keep still than exhibit herself
in any further movement. Rodney ought to have known better than go in then; if indeed he did
not know better than Sylvie herself did, how very pretty and graceful she looked, all out of
regular and ordinary gear.

She had taken off her hoops, for her climbing; her soft, long black dress fell droopingly about
her figure and rested in folds around and below her feet as she sat upon the step-ladder; one
thick braid of her sunshiny hair had dropped from the fastening which had looped it up to her
head, and hung, raveling into threads of light, down over her shoulder and into her lap; her
cheeks were bright with exercise; her eyes, that trouble and thought had sobered lately to
dove-gray, were deep, brilliant blue again. She was excited with her work, and flushed now
with the surprise of Rodney's coming in.

"How pretty you are going to look here," said Rodney, glancing about.

The carpet Sylvie had chosen to keep for the parlor--for though Mrs. Argenter had feebly discussed
and ostensibly dictated the list as Sylvie wrote it down, she had really given up all choosing
to her with a reiterated, helpless, "As you please," at every question that came up--was a
small figured Brussels of a soft, shadowy water-gray, with a border in an arabesque pattern.
This had been upon a guest chamber; the winter carpet of the drawing-room was an Axminster,
and Sylvie's ideas did not base themselves on Axminsters now, even if they might have done
so with a two thousand dollar allowance. She only hoped her mother would not feel as if there
were no drawing room at all, but the whole house had been put up-stairs.

The window draperies were as I have said; there was a large, plain library table in the middle
of the room, with books and baskets and little easels with pictures, and paper weights and
folders, and other such like small articles of use and grace and cosy expression lying about
upon it, as if people had been there quite a while and grown at home. There were bronze candelabra
on the mantel and upon brackets each side the bay window. Pictures were already hung,--portraits,
and gifts, not included in the schedule,--a few nice engravings, and one glowing piece of color,
by Mrs. Murray, which Sylvie said was like a fire in the room.

"I am only afraid it is too fine," said she, replying to Rodney. "I really want to be like
our neighbors,--to be a neighbor. We belong here now. People should not drop out of the world,
between the ranks, when changes happen; they can't change out of humanity. Do you know, Mr.
Sherrett,--if it wasn't for the thought of my poor father, and my mother not caring about anything
any more,--I know I should enjoy the chance of being a village girl?"

"You'll be a village girl, I imagine, as your parlor is a village parlor. All in good faith,
but wearing the rue with a difference."

"I don't mean to. I've been thinking,--ever so much, and I've found out a good many things.
It's this not falling on to anything that keeps people in the misery of falling. I mean to
come to land, right here. I guess I preexisted as a barefoot maiden. There's a kind of homeishness
about it, that there never was in being elegant. I wonder if I have got anything in here that
has no business?"

"Not a scrap. I've no doubt the blacksmith's wife's parlor is finer. But you can't put the
character out."

"I mean to have plants, now; in this bay window. I guess I can, now that we have no conservatory.
Village people always have plants in their windows, and mother won't want to see the street
staring in."

"Have you brought some?"

"How could I? Those great oranges and daphnes? No: I shall have little window plants and raise
them."

"But meanwhile, won't the street be staring in?"

"Well, we can keep the blinds shut, for the warm weather."

"Amy will come and see you, when you are settled; Amy and Aunt Euphrasia; you'll let them,
won't you? You don't mean to be such a violent village girl as to cut all your old friends?"

"Old friends?" Sylvie repeated, thoughtfully "Well, it does seem almost old. But I didn't think
I knew any of you very well, only a little while ago."

"Until the overturns," said Rodney. "It takes a shaking up, I suppose, sometimes, to set things
right. That's what the Shaker people believe has got to be generally. Do you know, the Scotch--Aunt
Euphrasia is Scotch--have a way of using the word 'upset' to mean 'set up.' I think that is
what you make it mean, Miss Sylvie. I understand the philosophy of it now. I got my first illustration
when I tipped you out there at the baker's door."

"You tipped me out into one of the nicest places I ever was in. I've no doubt it was a piece
of the preparation. I mean to have Ray Ingraham for my intimate friend."

Rodney Sherrett did not say anything immediately to this. He sat on the low cricket upon which
he had placed himself near the door, turning his soft felt hat over and over between his hands.
He was not quite ready to perceive as yet, that the baker's daughter was just the person for
Sylvie Argenter's intimate friend; and he had a dim suspicion, likewise, that there was something
in the girl constitution that prevented the being able to have more than one intimate friend.

He repeated presently his assurance that Amy and Aunt Euphrasia would come over to see them,
and took himself off, saying that he knew he must have been horribly in the way all the time.

The next morning, a light covered wagon, driven by Mr. Sherrett's man, Rodgers, came up the
Turn. There was nobody at the red-roofed house so early, and he set down in the front porch
what he took carefully, one at a time, from the vehicle,--some two dozen lovely greenhouse
plants, newly potted from the choicest and most flourishing growth of the season.

When Sylvie and Sabina came round from the ten o'clock street car, they stumbled suddenly upon
this beauty that incumbered the entrance. To a branch of glossy green, luxuriant ivy was tied
a card,--

          "RODNEY SHERRETT,
                With friendly compliments."

Sylvie really sung at her work to-day, placing and replacing till she had grouped the whole
in her wire frames in the bay window so as to show every leaf and spray in light and line aright. 

My money have other people, their conditions may not be clear to me, the misfortune that could
make them, I suspect not, how could I defend it! Maybe they are wasteful become and be a party in a pub
garden and others talk for a while on the flight to America at this festival on.

Now, if a business day in the evening, the business is closed and I suddenly hours before I
see where I'm going for the continuous needs of my business, nothing can work, then my excitement
in the morning ahead of skillful throws in me as a returning tide, but it keeps me from tearing
it and without a goal with me.

And yet I can not use this mood, and can only go home because I have Face and hands dirty and sweaty,
her dress stained and dusty, the financial cap on his head and chest of nails scratched boots.
I then go on like waves, chattering with the fingers of both hands
and my children, I'm going to accommodating the hair.

But the road is too short. Right now I'm in my house, open the lift door and step.

I see that I am now, and suddenly alone. Others, who have to climb the stairs, while a little tired,
need to wait a hurry breathing lungs, until you reach the door of
the apartment is open, thereby have a reason for anger and impatience,
are now coming into the hall where they hang their hats, and only
to them through the course of a few glass doors in her own past Rooms
come, they are alone.

But I'll be alone in the lift, and look, on his knees, narrow at the mirror. As the elevator begins
to lift, I say:

"Be quiet, back transgress, will you in the shade of the trees behind
the drapes of the windows, in the leaves vault?

"

I talk to the teeth and slide down the banister of the frosted glass like falling water.

»Flieget away: your wings, I have never seen like you have the rural valley or Paris, if it drives
you there.

But enjoy of the view of the window when the processions from all
three streets, not avoid each other, go through each other and between
their last series for free Create space again.

Beckons with the towels, be appalled, be stirred, and bless the beautiful lady who passes.

Goes over the creek on the wooden bridge, nods to the bathing children
and be amazed about Hurrah of the thousand sailors on the remote ironclad.

Persecuted

only the unassuming man and if you have pushed him into a doorway deprived him and see him then,
each with his hands in his pockets, to how he's sad his way in The left lane is.

The scattered on their horses galloping police tames the animals and pushes you back. Let them,
the empty streets they will make you unhappy, I know.

Already they ride; I ask, in pairs away, slowly around the street
corners, flying over the places.

"

Then I have to get out, let down the elevator, ring the door bell,
and the girl opens the door while I salute you.

Diffused addition Schaun

What will we do in these days of spring, are now coming soon?

This morning the sky was gray, but now you go to the window, one is surprised and rejects
the cheek to the latch of the window.

Below you can see the light of course, already setting sun on the face of the child's Girl,
go on and look around, and yet we see the shadow of the man on the faster it comes back.

Then the man has passed and the child's face is very bright

The way home

You see the persuasive power of the air after a thunderstorm! I consider my merits and overwhelm
me, if I am not resist it.

I walk and my speed is the speed of these street side of the street of this district. I am responsible
to justice for all strikes on doors, on the boards of the tables, for all the toasts, for the
lovers in their beds, in the scaffolding of new construction, in dark corners pressed against
the walls of houses, the Ottomans of the brothels.

I guess my past to find my future, but both excellent, can not submitted by both the preference and
only the injustice of Providence, which I so favored, I have to blame.

Just as I step into my room, I'm a little pensive, but without my while would have found little
common value of climbing the stairs.

It does not help me much, that I The windows open fully and that in a garden, the music still
plays.

The passing run ends

If you walk at night through an alley, and a man, even from afar - Because the street is rising
in front of us and it's full moon - running towards us, we will not tackle him, even if he
is weak and ragged, even if someone behind him running and screaming, but we will continue to
run it.

For it is night, and we can not ensure that the street in the full moon rises before us, and besides,
maybe these two have the agitation organized for their entertainment, perhaps the latter has
a third, perhaps, the first pursues innocent, perhaps will the second murder, and we would be
accomplices of the murder, the two may know nothing from each other, and it runs only one is at your
own risk in his bed, perhaps It somnambulist, perhaps the first weapons.

And finally, we must not be tired, we did not drink much wine?

We are glad that we see even more the second.

The passenger

I stand on the platform of the car and am completely
uncertain in regard my position in this world, in this city, in my
family.

Also could not casually I say what I could make claims in any direction with law. I can not defend
it, that I am standing on this platform, look at this loop think, let me take this car, nor for the
people by car or walk quietly along or gazing into shop windows. - No one asks me, but it is indifference.

The
car approaches a stop, a girl is near the steps to get out ready. It seems to me as clearly
as if I had touched her.

She is dressed in black, the coat tails move hardly, the blouse is scarce and has a collar of
white small-mesh top, the left hand is flat against the wall, the screen in her right is on the
second top step. Her face is brown, the nose, slightly pinched at the sides, completes round
and wide.

She has brown hair and blew away a lot of hair on the right temple. Her little ear is close, but I
see that I am near, the whole back of the right Ear and the shadow
at the root.

I asked myself: Why is it that she is not surprised that she the Keeps
mouth shut and say nothing of the sort?

Dresses

Often when I see clothes with multiple pleats, ruffles and ears, on
the beautiful body nice place, then I think they will not stay long
like this, but get wrinkles, not to even just get dust, thick in the
ornament can not be removed , and that no one so sad and ridiculous
to do is make every day the same precious gown early in the evening
to put on and undress.

But I see girls who are certainly beautiful and charming multiple muscles and bones and strained
skin and masses show a thin hair, and yet every day in this a natural Mask suit appear, always
put the same face in the same palms and the mirror can seem contradictory.

Only sometimes at night when they come late from a party, it seems they are worn in the mirror,
puffy and dusty, all have seen and barely tolerable.

Rejection

When I meet a beautiful girl and beg her: "Be so good, come on" with
me and they dumb passes, it means is:

"You're not a Duke with a famous
name, no broad growth of Indian Americans are, resting with eyes horizontally,
with the air of the prairies and it flows through Rivers massaged
skin, you have not made any trips to the Great Lakes and in them,
the I do not know where to find.

So I ask, why should a pretty girl, with You go? "

"You forget yourself with no automobile collisions in long swinging
through the alley, I see not the master of your clothes pressed into
their suite, the blessings for you muttering go in exact semi-circle
behind you, your breasts are in good order for corsetry, but your
Thighs and hips make up for that restraint, you wear a taffeta dress
with pleated folds, as in the previous autumn, made us all very joy,
and yet smile You - this mortal danger to the body -.

Sometimes "

"Yes, we are both right and, to us its not irrefutably be aware, do we, you know, dear all go
home alone. "

Food for thought for Mr. Reiter

Nothing, if you thought it over, can tempt you to want to be in a
race the first.

The glory of being recognized as the best rider of a country, is pleased with the orchestra assail
too strong, but that could be prevented in the morning after remorse.

The envy of the opponents, crafty, pretty influential people have us in the narrow lane , Hurt
by now we ride to that level, which soon was empty before us with a few lapped riders who
anritten small compared to the edge of the horizon.

Many of our friends rush to fix the profit and just over his shoulder they cry have the best of friends but
did not, from the remote switches her Hurra us our horse set, because they feared it would
come to losses, they should have to be angry now However, as our
horse was the first and they have won nothing, they swirl and around,
if we come over and look better along the stands.

Competitors backwards in the saddle looking to survey the accident that they met added, and
the injustice that is inflicted to them somehow, they take a fresh look, must begin as a new
race and a serious after that child's play.

Many women seem ridiculous the winner because he blows up and yet not know what begin with the
eternal shaking hands, saluting, self-bend low and in-the-distance-regards, while the vanquished
have closed the mouth and the necks of their best horses neighing
lightly tap.

At last it begins to rain at all from the opacified sky.

The streets window

Who lives and leave but would like to join here and there somewhere, who in view to changes
in the time of day, weather, professional relationships and the like without any further want to see any
arm to which he could talk, - the will drive it without a street
window does not last long.

And what about him so much that it was nothing investigated and only as tired man, eyes up and
down between the audience and sky, its window sill occurs and he does not want and has a little
tilted back his head, so to tear him down but the horses in with her entourage of cars and noise
and thus finally to the human harmony.

Desire to be Indians

If you were an Indian, however, be at hand, and on the racing horse, the wrong Air, always briefly
shuddered over the quivering ground, until you let the spores, because there were no spores
until they threw away the reins, for there were no reins, and hardly the country in front of
him as a smooth-mown heather, even without the horses neck and head horse.

The trees

For we are like tree trunks in the snow. Apparently they are on smooth, and with a small impulse
should be able to push away her. No, that one can not, because they are locked to the bottom
connected. But see, even that is only apparent.

Unhappiness

When it was becoming unbearable - once in the evening in November
- and I over the narrow carpet of my room like a race track was accompanied
by the sight of the illuminated Street frightened again applied, and
in the depth of the room, in the base of the mirror but again got
a new goal, and cried, just to hear the cry, to which nothing answers
and does nothing to the power of crying that rises, then, without
a counterweight, and can not stop, even if he stops, because opened
the door from the wall, hurry, hurry because it was necessary and
even the cart horses on the pavement below as crazed Horses in battle,
their throats exposed, rose.

A small ghost child went from very dark corridor in which the lamp is still not burned, and remained
standing on tiptoe on a subtly swaying floor joists. From the twilight of the room immediately
dazzled, it was soon with his face in his hands, calmed down but suddenly with the view to
the window, before its intersection with the high-powered Haze of
street lights at last lay among the darkness.

With the right elbow held it in front of the open door upright against the wall of the room
and let the draft from outside stress around the joints of the feet, also the neck, the temples.

I
gave her a little, then I said "good" day and took my jacket from
the fire-screen, because I did not want to stand there so half-naked.

A little while I held open the mouth so that I am leaving the excitement through the mouth. I had
bad saliva in me in the face shaking my eyelashes, short, I was missing anything, just as expected
but this Visit.

The child was still on the wall in the same place, it had the right hand on the wall pressed
and could, quite rosy, its not enough that the whitewashed wall of
coarse-grained was, and rubbed his finger tips.

I said, "You really want me? Is it not a mistake? Nothing is easier than a mistake in this great
house. My name is So-and-live on the third Floor. So am I, want to visit you? "

"Quiet, quiet," said the child over his shoulder, "everything is all right."

"Then you go further into the room, I would like to close the door."

"The door now I have just closed. Do not trouble. Calm down at all. "

"Do not talk of trouble. But on the way home of a lot of people are all natural my friends,
most now come from the shops and when they speak in a room Hear they have the right to believe
it to open and nachzuschaun what's going on. It once that way. These people have the daily work
behind them, who would it be subject in the provisional liberty evening! Besides, you know
it, too. Let I close the door. "

"Yes what is it? What do you have? All right can come in the house. And then Again, I have already closed
the door, do you think you can just close the door?

I've even turned the key. "

"Then good. More I will not do that. With the key you would not have
to lock.

And now you make yourself comfortable if you are already there. You are my guest. Trust me
completely. Do only wide without fear. I will not to stay here To force or to go away. I must
say the first place? Do you know me so bad? "

"No. You really did not have to say. Even more, it would not tell should. I am a child, why
so many circumstances to do to me?

"

"So bad it does not. Of course, a child.

But even so small you are not.

They are already fully grown. If you were a girl, you should not be so easy to me with a Room locked
up. "

"We'll have to worry about.

I just wanted to say that I know you so well protects me little,
it only relieves you of the effort of telling me something.

Nevertheless, make me compliments. Let this, I urge you to leave this is given, I do not know
you anywhere and on, even in this darkness.

It would be much better if you let the lights. No, better not.

At least I'm going to remember me that you me have been threatened. "

"What? I have threatened you? But I beg you. I'm so glad you finally
here are.

I say 'finally' because it is so late. I can not understand why you
so have come late.

Since it is possible that I have spoken in the joy so confused and
that you have just that way.

That I have said this, I give to ten times, yes I have threatened
you with everything you want.

Only - no fights, for heaven's sake! - But how could you believe it? How could you hurt me so?
Why do you want me all power, this small moment of your being here spoil? A stranger would be
more forthcoming than you. "

"I think, it was not wisdom.

As close as you meet a stranger can I have you by nature. You know, so why the sadness? Say,
that you want to play comedy, and I go immediately. "

"Really? Also, you dare me to say? They are a little too bold.

At the end you're in my room. Rub your fingers like crazy on my wall.

My room, my wall! And besides, what you say, ridiculous, not just naughty. You say your natural
forcing You talking to me in this way.

Really? Their nature is forcing you? That's nice of you Nature.

Their nature is mine, and if I kind of naturally behave to you, then any even do otherwise. "

"Is
that safe?"

"I'm talking about earlier."

"You know how I will be later?"

"I know nothing."

And I went over
to the bedside table where I lit the candle. I had at that time neither
Gas or electric light in my room. Then I sat for a while at the table
until I grew tired, put on his overcoat, took his hat from the sofa
and blew out the candle. On leaving, I got bogged down in a chair
leg.

On the stairs I met a tenant on the same floor.

"You go back
already gone, you rascal," he asked on his two stages spread Legs
resting.

"What should I do?" I said, "now I have had a ghost in the
room."

"You say that with the same dissatisfaction as if you found
a hair in the soup had. "

"You're joking. But remember, a ghost is
a ghost. "

"Very true. But what if one does not believe in ghosts?
"

"Yes, do you mean, I believe in ghosts? What helps me but the lack
of faith? "

"Very easy. You must have just lost their fear, when
a ghost is really you. "

"Yes, but that's the minor anxiety. The
real fear is the fear of Cause of the phenomenon. And that fear remains.
I have really great in me. "I began with nervousness to search all
my pockets. 

"Because you, before the phenomenon itself had no fear,
you would have them but quiet after can ask their cause! "

"They've
obviously never talked to ghosts. From which one can never be a get
clear information. This is a reciprocating. These ghosts seem to have
their existence longer be in doubt, than we do what is in the way
of their frailty no wonder. "

"But I have heard that you can feed
them."

"Since you are well informed. That may be. But who will do
that? "

"Why not? If it's a female ghost, for example, "he said,
and jumped on the upper level.

"Oh," I said, "is not even there for
that."

I remembered. My friend was so high that he was to see me,
under a had to prevent curvature of the staircase. "But still," I
cried, "if you would up there take away my ghost, it's over between
us, forever. "

"But it was just fun," he said, pulling his head back.

"Then
it's good," I said, and would now actually be able to walk quietly.
But Because I even felt abandoned so I went up and would rather lay
down to sleep. 'Some folks must be always set up in silk,
she sposed.' Everybody isn't like the Ingrahams."

"No garment of this life fits exactly. There was only one seamless robe. But we mustn't take
thought for raiment, you see. The body is more. And at last,--somehow, sometime,--we shall
be all clothed perfectly--with his righteousness."

This was too swift and light in its spiritual touching and linking for Sylvie to follow. She
had to ask, as the disciples did, for a meaning.

"It isn't clothes that I am thinking of, or that trouble me; or any outside. And I know it
isn't actual clothes you mean. Please tell me plainer, Miss Euphrasia."

"I mean that I think He meant by 'raiment,' not clothes so much as life; what we put on or
have put on to us; what each soul wears and moves in, to feel itself by and to be manifest;
history, circumstance. 'Raiment,'--'garment,'--the words always stand for this, beyond their
temporary and technical sense. 'He laid aside his garment,'--He gave up his own life that He
might have been living,--to come and wash our feet!"

"And the people cast their garments before Him, when He rode into Jerusalem," Sylvie said presently.

"Yes; that is the way He must come into his kingdom, and lead us with Him. We are to give up
our old ways, and the selfish things we lived in once, and not think about our own raiment
any more. He will give it to us, as He gives it to the lilies; and the glory of it will be
something that we could not in any way spin for our selves. And by and by it will come to be
full and right, all through; we shall be clothed with his righteousness. What is righteousness
but rightness?"

"I thought it only meant goodness. That we hadn't any goodness of our own; that we mustn't
trust in it, you know?"

"But that his, by faith, is to cover us? That is the old letter-doctrine, which men didn't
look through to see how graciously true it is, and how it gives them all things. For it is
things they want, all the time; realities, of experience and having. They talk about an abstract
'justification by faith,' and struggle for an abstract experience; not seeing how good God
is to tell them plainly that his 'justifying' is setting everything right for them, and round
them, and in them: his rightness is sufficient for them; they need not go about, worrying,
to establish their own. The minute they give up their wrongness, and fall into its line, it
works for them as no working of their own could do. God doesn't forgive a soul ideally, and
leave it a mere clean, naked consciousness; He brings forth the best robe and puts it on; a
ring for the hand, and shoes for the feet. People try painfully to achieve a ghostly sort of
regeneration that strips them and leaves them half dead. The Lord heals and binds up, and puts
his own garment upon us; He knows that we have need," Miss Kirkbright repeated, earnestly.
"Salvation is a real having; not an escape without anything, as people run for their lives
from fire or flood."

Sylvie had listened with a shining face.

"You get it all from that one word,--'raiment.' Your words--the words you find out, Miss Kirkbright--are
living things."

"Yes, words are living things," Miss Kirkbright answered. "God does not give us anything dead.
But the life of them is his spirit, and his spirit is an instant breath. You can take them
as if they were dead, if you do not inspire. Men who wrote these words, inspired. We talk about
their being inspired, as if it were a passive thing; and quarrel about it, and forget to breathe
ourselves. It is all there, just as live as it ever was; it is given over again every time
we go for it; when we find it so, we never need trouble any more about authority. We shall
only thank God that He has kept in the world the records of his talk with men; and the more
we talk with Him ourselves, the deeper we shall understand their speech."

"Isn't all that about 'inner meanings,'--that words in the Bible stand for,--Swedenborgian,
Miss Kirkbright?"

"Well?" Miss Kirkbright smiled.

"Are you a Swedenborgian?" Sylvie asked the question timidly.

"I believe in the New Church," answered Miss Euphrasia. "But I don't believe in it as standing
apart, locked up in a system. I believe in it as a leaven of all the churches; a life and soul
that is coming into them. I think a separate body is a mistake; though I like to worship with
the little family with which I find myself most kin. We should do that without any name. The
Lord gave a great deal to Swedenborg: but when his time comes, He doesn't give all in any one
place, or to any one soul; his coming is as the lightening from the one part to the other part
under heaven. Lightening--not lightning; it is wrongly printed so, I think. He set the sun
in the sky, once and forever, when He came in his Christ; since then, day after day dawns,
everywhere, and uttereth speech; and even night after night showeth knowledge. I believe in
the fuller, more inward dispensation. Swedenborg illustrated it,--received it, wonderfully;
but many are receiving the same at this hour, without ever having heard of Swedenborg. For
that reason, we may never be afraid about the truth. It is not here or there. This or that
may fail or pass away, but the Word shall never pass away."

"What a long talk we have had! How did we get into it?"

The car was coming up the slope, half a mile off. They could see the red top of it rising,
and could hear the tinkle of the bell.

"I wish we didn't need to get out!" said Sylvie. "I wish I could tell it to my mother!"

"Can't you?"

"I'm afraid it wouldn't keep alive,--with me," Sylvie answered, with a little sigh and shadow.
"Not even as these flowers will that I am taking to her. I can take,--but I can't give, and
I always feel so that I ought to. Mother needs the comfort of it. Why don't you come and talk
to her, Miss Kirkbright?"

"Talk on purpose never does. You and I 'got into it,' as you say. Perhaps your mother and I
might. But I have got over feeling about such sort of giving--in words--as a duty. Even with
people whom I work among sometimes, who need the very first gift of truth, so much! We can
only keep near and dear to each other, Sylvie, and near and dear to the Lord. Then there are
the two lines; and things that are equal--or similarly related--to the same thing, are related
to one another. He can make the mark that proves and joins, any time. Did you know there was
Bible in geometry, Sylvie? I very often go to my old school Euclid for a heavenly comfort."

"I think you go to everything for it--and to everybody with it," said Sylvie, squeezing her
friend's hand as he left her on the car-step.

Nothing comes much before we need it. This talk stayed by Sylvie through months afterwards,
if not the word of it, always the subtle cheer and strength of it, that nestled into her heart
underneath all her upper thinkings and cares of day by day, and would not quite let them settle
down upon the living core of it with a hopeless pressure.

For the real stress of her new life was bearing upon her heavily. The first poetry, the first
fresh touches with which she had made pleasant signs about their altered condition, were passed
into established use, and dulled into wornness and commonness. The difficulties--the grapples--came
thick and forceful about her. At the same time, her reliances seemed slipping away from her.

She had hardly known, any more than her mother, how much the countenance and friendliness of
the Sherrett family had done in upholding her. It was a link with the old things--the very
best of the old things,--that stood as a continual assurance that they themselves were not
altered--lowered in any way--by their alterings. This came to Sylvie with an interior confirmation,
as it did to Mrs. Argenter exteriorly. So long as Miss Kirkbright and the Sherretts indorsed
anything, it could not harm them much, or fence them out altogether from what they had been.
Amy Sherrett and Miss Kirkbright thought well of the Ingrahams, and maintained all their dealings
with them in a friendly--even intimate--fashion. If Sylvie chose to sit with them of an afternoon,
it was no more than Miss Euphrasia did. Also, the old Miss Goodwyns, who lived up the Turn
behind the maples, were privileged to offer Miss Kirkbright a cup of tea when she went in there,
as she would often for an hour's talk over knitting work and books that had been lent and read.
Sylvie might well enough do the same, or go to them for hints and helps in her window-gardening
and little ingenuities of housekeeping. Mrs. Argenter deluded herself agreeably with the notion
that the relations in each case were identical. But what with the Sherretts and Miss Kirkbright
were mere kindly incidents of living, apart somewhat from the crowd of daily demand and absorption,
were to Sylvie the essential resource and relaxation of a living that could find little other.

Sylvie let her mother's reading pass, not knowing how far Mrs. Argenter was able actually to
believe in it herself, but clearly and thankfully recognizing, on her own part the reality,--that
she had these friends and resources to brighten what would else be, after all, pretty hard
to endure.

The Knoxwells and the Kents and old Mrs. Sunderline were hardly neighbors, as she had meant
to neighbor with them. The Knoxwells and the Kents were a little jealous and suspicious of
her overtures, as she had said, and would not quite let her in. Besides, she did not draw toward
Marion Kent, who came to church with French gilt bracelets on, and a violently trimmed polonaise,
as she did toward Dot and Ray.

Old Mrs. Sunderline was as nice and cosy as could be but she never went out herself, and her
whole family consisted of herself, her sister,--Aunt Lora, the tailoress,--and her son, the
young carpenter, whom Sylvie could not help discerning was much noted and discussed among the
womenkind, old and young, as a village--what shall I say, since I cannot call my honest, manly
Frank Sunderline a village beau? A village desirable he was, at any rate. Of course, Sylvie
Argenter could not go very much to his home, to make a voluntary intimacy. And all these, if
she and they had cared mutually ever so much, would hare been under Mrs. Argenter's proscription
as mere common work-and-trade people whom nobody knew beyond their vocations. There was this
essential difference between the baker's daughters whom the Sherrett family noticed exceptionally
and the blacksmith's and carpenter's households, the woman who "took in fine washing," and
her forward, dressy, ambitious girl. Though the baker's daughters and the good Miss Goodwyns
themselves knew all these in their turn, quite well, and belonged among them. The social "laying
on of hands" does not hold out, like the apostolic benediction, all the way down.

I began these last long paragraphs with saying, that neither Sylvie nor her mother had known
how far their comfort and acquiescence in their new life had depended on the "backing up" of
the Sherretts. This they found out when the Sherretts went away that autumn. Amy was married
in October and sailed for England; Rodney was at Cambridge, and when the country house at Roxeter
was closed, Miss Euphrasia took rooms in Boston for the winter, where her winter work all lay,
and Mr. Sherrett, who was a Representative to Congress, went to Washington for the session.
There were no more calls; no more pleasant spending of occasional days at the Sherrett Place;
no more ridings round and droppings in of Rodney at the village. All that seemed suddenly broken
up and done with, almost hopelessly. Sylvie could not see how it was ever to begin again. Next
year Rodney was to graduate, and his father was to take him abroad. These plans had come out
in the talks over Amy's marriage and her leaving home.

Sylvie was left to her village; she could only go in to the Miss Goodwyns and down to the bakery;
and now that her condescensions were unlinked from those of Miss Kirkbright, and just dropped
into next-door matter of course, Mrs. Argenter fretted. Marion Kent would come calling, too,
and talk about Mrs. Browning, and borrow patterns, and ask Sylvie "how she hitched up her Marguerite."

[In case this story should ever be read after the fashion I allude to shall have disappeared
from the catalogues of Butterick and Demorest, to be never more mentioned or remembered, I
will explain that it is a style of upper dress most eminently un-daisy-like in expression and
effect, and reminding of no field simplicities whatsoever, unless possibly of a hay-load; being
so very much pitch-forked up into heaps behind.]

Not that Sylvie dressed herself with a pitchfork; she had been growing more sensible than that
for a long time, to say nothing of her quiet mourning; though for that matter, I have seen
bombazine and crape so voluminously bundled and massed as to remind one of the slang phrase
"piling on the agony." But Marion Kent came to Sylvie for the first idea of her light loops
and touches: then she developed it, as her sort do, tremendously; she did grandly by the yard,
what Sylvie Argenter did modestly by the quarter; she had a soul beyond mere nips and pinches.
But this was small vexation, to be caricatured by Miss Kent. Sylvie's real troubles came closer
and harder.

Sabina Bowen went away.

She had not meant to be married until the spring; but she and the cabinet-maker had had their
eyes upon a certain half-house,--neat and pretty, with clean brown paint and a little enticing
gingerbread work about the eaves and porch,--which was to be vacated at that time; and it happened
that, through some unforeseen circumstances, the family occupying it became suddenly desirous
to get rid of the remainder of their lease, and move this winter. John came to Sabina eagerly
one evening with the news.

Sabina thought of the long winter evenings, and the bright double-burner kerosene she had saved
up money for; of a little round table with a red cloth, and John one side of it and she the
other; of sitting together in a pew, and going every Sunday in her bride-bonnet, instead of
getting her every-other-Sunday forenoon and hurrying home to fricassee Mrs. Argenter's chicken
or sweet-bread, and boil her cauliflower; and so she gave warning the next morning when she
was emptying Mrs. Argenter's bath and picking up the towels. She steeled herself wisely with
choice of time and person; it would have been hard to tell Miss Sylvie when she came down to
dust the parlor, or into the kitchen to make the little dessert for dinner.

And now poor Sylvie fell into and floundered in that slough of despond, the lower stratum of
the Irish kitchen element, which if one once meddles with, it is almost hopeless to get out
of; and one very soon finds that to get out of it is the only hope, forlorn as it may be.

She had one girl who made sour bread for a fortnight, and then flounced off on a Monday morning,
leaving the clothes in the tubs, because "her bread was never faulted before, an' faith, she
wudn't pit up biscuits of a Sunday night no more for annybody!" The next one disposed of all
the dish towels in four days, behind barrels and in the corners of the kettle closet, and complained
insolently of ill furnishing; a third kindled her fire with the clothes-pins; a fourth wore
Mrs. Argenter's cambric skirts on Sunday, "for a finish, jist to make 'em worth while for the
washin'," and trod out the heels of three pairs of Sylvie's best stockings, for a like considerate
and economical reason. Another declined peremptorily the use of a flat-iron stand, and burnt
out triangular pieces from the ironing sheet and blanket; and when Sylvie remonstrated with
her about the skirt-board, which she had newly covered, finding her using it as a cleaning
cloth after she had heated her "flats" upon the coals, she was met with a torrent of abuse,
and the assurance that she "might get somebody else to save her old rags with their apurns,
an' iron five white skirts and tin pairs o' undersleeves a week for two women, at three dollars
an' a half. She had heard enough about the place or iver she kim intil it, an' the bigger fool
she iver to iv set her fut inside the dooers."

That was it. It came to that pass, now. They "heard about the place before iver they kim intil
it." The Argenter name was up. There was no getting out of the bog-mire. Sylvie ran the gauntlet
of the village refuse, and had to go to Boston to the intelligence offices. By this time she
hadn't a kitchen or a bedroom fit to show a decent servant into. They came, and looked, and
went away; half-dozens of them. The stove was burnt out; there was a hole through into the
oven; nothing but an entire new one would do, and a new one would cost forty dollars. Poor
Sylvie toiled and worried; she went to Mrs. Ingraham and the Miss Goodwyns, and Sabina Galvin,
for advice; she made ash-paste and cemented up the breaches, she hired a woman by the day,
put out washing, and bought bread at the bakehouse. All this time, Mrs. Argenter had her white
skirts and her ruffled underclothing to be done up. "What could she do? She hadn't any plain
things, and she couldn't get new, and she must be clean."

At New Year's, they owed three hundred dollars that they could not pay, beside the quarter's
rent. They had to take it out of their little invested capital; they sold ten shares of railroad
stock at a poor time; it brought them eight hundred and seventy-five dollars. They bought their
new stove, and some other things; they hired, at last, two girls for the winter, at three dollars
and two and a half, respectively; this was a saving to what they had been doing, and they must
get through the cold weather somehow. Besides, Mrs. Argenter was now seriously out of health.
She had had nothing to do but to fall sick under her troubles, and she had honestly and effectually
done it.

But how should they manage another year, and another? How long would they have any income,
if such a piece was to be taken out of the principal every six months?

In the spring, Mrs. Argenter declared it was of no use; they must give up and go to board.
They ought to have done it in the first place. Plenty of people got along so with no more than
they had. A cheap place in the country for the summer would save up to pay for rooms in town
for the winter. She couldn't bear another hot season in that village,--nor a cold one, either.
A second winter would be just madness. What could two women do, who had never had anything
to provide before, with getting in coal, and wood, and vegetables, and everything, and snow
to be shoveled, and ashes sifted, and fires to make, and girls going off every Monday morning?

She had just enough reason, as the case stood, for Sylvie not to be able to answer a word.
But the lease,--for another year? What should they do with that? Would Mr. Frost take it off
their hands?

If Sylvie had known who really stood behind Mr. Frost, and how!

The little poem of village living,--of home simpleness and frugal prettiness,--of that, the
two first lines alone had rhymed!

They had entered upon the last quarter of their first year when they came to this united and
definite conclusion. That month of May was harsh and stormy. Nothing could be done about moving
until clearer and finer weather. So the rent was continued, of course, until the year expired,
and in June they would pack up and go away.

Sylvie had been to the doctor, first, and told him about her mother; and he had called, in
a half-friendly, half-professional way, to see her. After his call, he had had an honest talk
with Sylvie.

God sometimes shows us a glimpse of a future trouble that He holds in his hand, to neutralize
the trouble we are immediately under; even, it may be, to turn it into a quietness and content.
When Sylvie had heard all that Doctor Sainswell had to say, she put away her money anxiety
from off her mind, at once and finally. Nothing was any matter now, but that her mother should
go where she would,--have what she wanted.

Then she went to see Mr. Frost.

"He would write to his employer," he said; he could not give an answer of himself.

The answer came in five days. They might relinquish the house at any moment; they need pay
the rent only for the time of their occupancy. It would suit the owner quite as well; the place
would let readily.

Sylvie was happy as she told her mother how nicely it had come out. She might have been less
so, had she seen Mr. Sherrett's face when he read his agent's letter and replied to it in those
three lines without moving from his seat.

"I might have expected it," he said to himself. "She's a child after all. But she began so
bravely! And it can't help being worse by and by. Well, one can't live people's lives for them."
And he turned back to his other papers,--his notes of yesterday's debate in the House.

       *       *       *       *       *

Early in June, there came lovely days.

Sylvie was very busy. She had kept her two girls with her to the end, by dint of raising their
wages a dollar a week each, for the remainder of their stay. She had the whole house to go
over; even a year's accumulation is formidable, when one has to turn out and dispose of everything
anew. She began with the attic; the trunks and the boxes. She had to give away a great deal
that would have been of service had they continued to live quietly on. Two old proverbs asserted
themselves to her experience now, and kept saying themselves over to her as she worked: "A
rolling stone gathers no moss;" "Three removes are as bad as a fire."

She had come down in her progress as far as the closets of their own rooms, and the overlooking
of their own clothing, when one afternoon, as, still in her wrapper, she was busy at the topmost
shelves of her mother's wardrobe, with little fear of any but village calls, and scarcely those,
wheels came up the Turn, and names were suddenly announced.

"Miss Harkbird and Mr. Shoot!"

Sylvie caught in a flash the idea of what the girl ought to have said. She laughed, she turned
red, and the tears very nearly sprang to her eyes, with surprise, amusement, embarrassment
and flurry.

"What shall I do? Give me your hand, Katy! And where on earth is my other dress? Can't you
learn to get names right ever, Katy? Miss Kirkbright and Mr. Sherrett. Say I will be down presently.
O, what hair!"

She was before the glass now; she caught up stray locks and thrust in hairpins here and there;
then she tied a little violet-edged black ribbon through the toss and rumple, and somehow it
looked all right. Anyway, her eyes were brilliant; the more brilliant for that cloudiness beneath
which they shone.

Her eyes shone and her lips trembled, as she came into the room and told Miss Euphrasia how
glad she was to see them. For she remembered then why she was so glad; she remembered the things
she had longed to go to Miss Euphrasia with, all the hard winter and doubtful spring.

"We are going away, you see," she told her presently. "Mother must have a change. It does not
suit her here in any way. We are going to Lebanon for a little while; then we shall find some
quiet place, in the mountains, perhaps. In the winter, we shall have to board in the city.
Mother can't be worried any longer; she must have what she wants."

Miss Kirkbright glanced round the pretty parlor, as yet undisturbed; at all that, with such
labor, Sylvie had arranged into a home a year ago.

"What a care for you, dear! What will you do with everything?"

"We are going to store some of our furniture, and sell some. Dot Ingraham is to take my plants
for me till we come back to Boston; then I shall have them in our rooms. I hope the gas won't
kill them."

Rodney Sherrett said nothing after the first greeting for some minutes. He only sat and listened,
with a sober shadow in his handsome eyes. All this was so different from anything he had anticipated.

By and by, in a little pause, he told her that he had come out to ask her for Class Day.

"I wouldn't just send a card for the spread," said he. "Aunt Euphrasia wants you to go with
her. I'm in the Reward of Merit list, you see; I've earned my good time; been grinding awfully
all winter. I've even got a part for Commencement. Only a translation; and it probably won't
be called; but wouldn't you like to hear it, if it were?"

"O, I wish I could!" said Sylvie, replying in earnest good faith to the question he asked quizzically
for a cover to his real eagerness in letting her know. "I wish I could! But we shall be gone."

"Not before Class Day?"

"Yes; just about then. I'm so sorry."

Rod Sherrett looked very much as if he thought he had "ground" for nothing.

Then they talked about Lebanon, and the new Vermont Springs; perhaps Mrs. Argenter would go
to some of them in July. Miss Kirkbright told Sylvie of a dear little place she had found last
year, in the edge of the White Mountain country; "among the great rolling hills that lead you
up and up," she said, "through whole counties of wonderful wild beauty; the sacred places of
simple living that can never be crowded and profaned. It is a nook to hide away in when one
gets discouraged with the world. It consoles you with seeing how great and safe the world is,
after all; how the cities are only dots that men have made upon it; picnicking here and there,
as it were, with their gross works and pleasures, and making a little rubbish which the Lord
could clean all away, if He wanted, with one breath, out of his grand, pure heights."

All the while Sylvie and Rodney had their own young disappointed thoughts. They could not say
them out; the invitation had been given and been replied to as it must be; this was only a
call with Aunt Euphrasia; everything that they might have in their minds could not be spoken,
even if they could have seen it quite clearly enough to speak; they both felt when the half
hour was over, as if they had said--had done--nothing that they ought, or wanted to. And neither
knew it of the other; that was the worst.

When Rodney at last went out to untie his horse, Miss Euphrasia turned round to Sylvie with
a question.

"Is this all quite safe and easy for you, dear?"

"Yes," returned Sylvie, frankly, understanding her. "I have given up all that worry. There
is money enough for a good while if we don't mind using it. And it is mother's money; and Dr.
Sainswell says she cannot have a long life."

Sylvie spoke the last sentence with a break; but her voice was clear and calm,--only tender.

"And after that?" Miss Kirkbright asked, looking kindly into her face.

"After that I shall do what I can; what other girls do, who haven't money. When the time comes
I shall see. All that comes hard to me--after mother's feebleness--is the changing; the not
staying of anything anywhere. My life seems all broken and mixed up, Miss Kirkbright. Nothing
goes right on as if it belonged."

"'Lo, it is I; be not afraid,'" repeated Miss Kirkbright softly. "When things work and change,
in spite of us, we may know it is the Lord working. That is the comfort,--the certainty."

The tenderness that had been in heart and voice sprang to tears in Sylvie's eyes, at that word.

"How do you think of such things?" she said, earnestly. "I shall never forget that now."

Aunt Euphrasia could not help telling Rodney as they drove away toward the city, how brave
and good the child was. She could not help it, although, wise woman that she was, she refrained
carefully, in most ways, from "putting things in his head."

"I knew it before," was Rodney's answer.

Aunt Euphrasia concluded, at that, in her own mind, that we may be as old and as wise as we
please, but in some things the young people are before us; they need very little of our "putting
in heads."

"Aunt Effie," said Rodney, presently, "do you think I have been a very great good-for-nothing?"

"No, indeed. Why?"

"Well, I certainly haven't been good for much; and I'm not sure whether I could be. I don't
know exactly what to think of myself. I haven't had anything to do with horses this winter;
I sent Red Squirrel off into the country. What is the reason, Auntie, that if a fellow takes
to horses, they all think he is going straight to the bad? What is there so abominable about them?"

"Nothing," said Miss Kirkbright. "On the contrary, everything grand and splendid,--in type,--you
know. Horses are powers; men are made to handle powers, and to use them; it is the very manliest
instinct of a man by which he loves them. Only, he is terribly mistaken if he stops there,--playing
with the signs. He might as well ride a stick, or drive a chair with worsted reins, as the
little ones do, all his life."

Rodney's face lit straight up; but for a whole mile he made no answer. Then he said, as people
do after a silence,--

"How quiet we are, all at once! But you have a way of finishing up things, Aunt Euphrasia.
You said all I wanted in about fifty words, just now. I begin to see. It may be just because
I might do something, that I haven't. Aunt Euphrasia, I've done being a boy, and playing with
reins. I'm going to be a man, and do some real driving. Do you know, I think I'd better not
go to Europe with my father?"

"I don't know that," returned Miss Kirkbright. "It might be; but it is a thing to consider
seriously, before you give it up. You ought to be quite sure what you stay for."

"I won't stay for any nonsense. I mean to talk with him to-night."

"Talk with yourself, first, Rod; find yourself out, and then talk it all out honestly with him."

Which advice--the first clause of it--Rodney proceeded instantly to follow; he did not say
another word all the way over the Mill Dam and up Beacon Hill, and Aunt Euphrasia let him blessedly
alone; one of the few women, as she was, capable of doing that great and passive thing.

When he had left her at her door, and driven his horse to the livery stable, he went round
to his father's rooms and took tea with him.

The meal over, he pushed back his chair, saying, "I want a talk with you, father. Can I have
it now? I must be back at Cambridge by ten."

Mr. Sherrett looked in his son's face. There was nothing there of uncomfortableness,--of conscious
bracing up to a difficult matter. He repressed his first instinctive inquiry of "No scrape,
I hope, Rod?" The question was asked and answered between their eyes.

"Certainly, my boy," he said, rising. "Step in there; the man will be up presently to take
away these things."

The door stood open to an inner apartment; a little study, beyond which were sleeping and bath-rooms.

Rodney stepped upon the threshold, leaning against the frame, while Mr. Sherrett went to the
mantel, found a match and a cigar, cut the latter carefully in two, and lit one half.

"The thing is, father," said Rodney, not waiting for a formal beginning after they should be
closeted and seated,--"I've been thinking that I'd better not go abroad, if you don't mind.
I'm rather waking up to the idea of earning my own way first,--before I take it. It's time
I was doing something. If I use up a year or more in travelling, I shall be going on to twenty-two,
you see; and I ought to have got ahead a little by that time."

Mr. Sherrett turned round, surprised. This was a new phase. He wondered how deep it went, and
what had occasioned it.

"Do you mean you wish to study a profession, after all?"

"No. I don't think I've much of a 'head-piece'--as Nurse Pond used to say. At least, in the
learned direction. I've just about enough to do for a gentleman,--a man, I hope. But I should
like to take hold of something and make it go. I'll tell you why, father. I want to see what's
in me in the first place; and then, I might want something, sometime, that I should have no
right to if I couldn't take care of myself--and more."

"Come in, Rodney, and shut the door."

After that, of course, we cannot listen.

They two sat together for almost two hours. In that time, Mr. Sherrett was first discomposed;
then set right upon one or two little points that had puzzled and disappointed him, and to
which his son could furnish the key; then thoroughly roused and anxious at this first dealing
with his boy as a man, with all a man's hopes and wishes quickening him to a serious purpose;
at last, touched sympathetically, as a good father must be, with the very desire of his child,
and the fears and uncertainties that may environ it. What he suggested, what he proposed and
promised, what was partly planned to be afterward concluded in detail, did not transpire through
that heavy closed door; neither we, nor the white-jacketed serving-man, can be at this moment
the wiser. It will appear hereafter. When they came out together at last, Mr. Sherrett was
saying,--

"Two years, remember. Not a word of it, decisively, till then,--for both your sakes."

"Let what will happen, father? You don't remember when you were young."

"Don't I?" said his father, with emphasis, and a kindly smile. 

Chapter Eight.

The Bolshevik variety of socialism.

What are the principles of the doctrine we have come to know as Bolshevism? What it is based?

In the first volume of his great work "Das Kapital" portrays Karl Marx in the 25th Chapter, sixth
Section that deals with the genesis of the industrial capitalist, the various Methods of so-called
"primitive accumulation" of capital, ie the original Formation of capital. Compared to the
representations of bourgeois economists, the formation of capital to "save" or back-saving,
has, according to Marx, that the capital created an entirely different
way, and writes to the methods of this real primitive accumulation
of capital:

"In England they are at the end of the 17th Century systematically
summarized in Colonial system, public debt system, modern Control
system and protection system.

  These methods are based in part on the most brutal violence, as
  the colonial system. But all of them used the State power, the concentrated
  and organized force of the Society for the transformation process of
  the feudal capitalist mode of production to promote and hothouse Transitions
  to abbreviate. The violence is the midwife of every old Society,
  pregnant with a new one. It is itself a economic power. "
  
  The blocked end of this sentence here has served in the socialist movement
  of our time with parties that traced their theoretical knowledge directly
  from Marx, a peculiar Role-played.

By French Socialists, who called themselves Marxists, and their a Leader Paul Lafargue, Karl
Marx's son, the other, Jules Guesde, a friend of Marx was, he was in a dogmatic interpretation
as evidence propagated ensure that all socialist activity must aim at the conquest of political
power by violent revolution. It But note that Marx, in the sentence just stated a fact of history but
no formula for the direct application sets up [7].

[7] How little Marx was in agreement with the interpretation that Lafargue his findings were
going out of his letter to Friedrich Engels of 11 November 1882 shows.

   There, Marx writes to his friend that Lafargue was in fact students of
   the Russian Bakunin, and calls angrily: "Longuet (the other son of Marx)
   as Last Proudhonist Lafargue and the last Bakuninist! Que le diable
   = les Emporte! = "
   
   From this finding of historical fact, however, makes the Group of Russian
   Socialists who call themselves Bolsheviks, an imperative of the whole
socialist policy: We must have the power to build the new society,
otherwise we are not, our all thoughts and aspirations must be directed
to the conquest of political power.

A View that the course could draw on certain points in the Communist Manifesto. It says, for example,
at the end, where the attainment of political power by the proletariat the question is:

"We have seen above that the first step in the workers' revolution to raise the proletariat
to the ruling class to win the battle democracy.

It may, of course, be done only by means of despotic Interference
with property rights and civil Relations of production, through measures,
therefore, the economically appear insufficient and untenable, but
in the course of the movement drive out of himself and as a means
of entirely revolutionizing the Production are inevitable.

  "
  
  Then a series of measures are listed to certain measures of the middle
class in earlier Revolutions match.

  In another claim, the proponent of the described way of thinking is to
  a passage in the letter from Karl Marx on the draft program
  of the German unification Social Democracy of 1875, the draft
  of the Gotha Program. There, namely, Marx says:
  
  "Between capitalist and communist society is the period of the revolutionary
transformation of the one in the others.

It is also a political transition period in which the State can be nothing else but the revolutionary
dictatorship of the Proletariat. "

This movement is by the Bolsheviks just taken over the word Bolsheviks
into German has interpreted dogmatically.

  This party, now as Russian Party of Communists the head of the Communist
  International as the third or, has previously also party the maximalist
  called. The dispute among the Russian Marxists had two Directions formed:
  one was the struggle of the Russian Social-Democratic to a program
  Socialist minimum requirements lead ("Minimum Program"), similar
to the time the French Marxists had worked for them with a foreword
by Marx, the others took the view that one should put up a maximum
of receivables and hold it as a kind of motion continuously beacon.

Of these two directions, the latter just those of the Bolsheviks, while the former group or party
called the Mensheviks is - names that correspond to the concepts more and less that one part
on the amount the claims, refers in part to the ratio of the trailer. The dispute went to a large
Part in a scholastic playing off of sayings by Marx, with one side of the Ignoring the fact
that the whole Marxist doctrine is primarily developing teaching and Marx went through the same over
the years, a development. Engels has repeatedly recognized that he and Marx in the first period
of their work significant speed errors and the course of development have occurred. But the fact
is that Marx's doctrine itself dismissed? Certainly not. The great, enduring in Marxism, which
is above all individual applications, is precisely the fact that the Marxist theory of social development,
a new, in their Main idea of ​​the theory of the decisive influence of the mode of production,
unshaken basis been added. Marx has defined the organic development of ideas of teaching repeated
very expressed. Thus, in the preface to his 1859 published writings on the critique "of political
Economy ', so also in 1866 in the preface to "Das Kapital. In the latter, Marx says, which is
very remarkable for its way of looking is itself the ruling classes of the present dams on the
recognition that the present society "no solid crystal," but a " "Conversion ability and constantly
in the conversion term organism is.

Here the contrast between the fundamental beliefs is displayed, which the vast majority of social
democratic Parties of our day of the party of the Bolsheviks and their Western European emulators
different.

The Bolshevik party emerged from the Marxist school of Russian Socialism, and it is remarkable that just
the three figures, obtained as denote the actual founder of this school, the late George Plekhanov,
the Vera has just died and the surviving Zasulich Paul Axelrod, opponents of the Bolsheviks
were respectively Axelrod is one such. When I remarked above that the Bolsheviks consistency
in its reference to Marx in many scholastic, I will add that I than
that of scholastic turn of mind or mental activity, consider the directed
is to have fixed ideas or propositions, the evidence often forced
interpretation arts to provide deductive, and inductive moment, examining
the facts, very come up short when it is not entirely undiscussed.

Now is precisely the essential property social development theory of Marx and Engels, that sets the tone
on the narrow, one can say with the greatest right to the organic connection of Political and
Social with the facts of economic development, that is, the relations
of production.

From this point have made the authors of the Communist Manifesto, so revolutionary they thought
for their time and how they unreservedly for the communist ideas of the advanced Wing of the
labor movement of their day had taken sides, but already, as their theory worked out, the position
taken towards radical socialists of their days, for the revolutionary Communists were in fact only
had a claim to the name Utopians the socialist revolution. One of them of undoubted talent,
but scientifically untrained German communist Wilhelm Weitling, the author of the essay "Guarantees
of Harmony and freedom, "which appeared in 1842 and welcomed by Marx as a very remarkable was,
but did not prevent that Marx later turned sharply against Weitling than this in his agitation the
workers with excessive radicalism, the head twisted. It is therefore of interest because long-form
ideas with many slogans are similar today by supporters of the Bolshevism, the workers will be
preached.

In the winter of 1846-47 Weitling came to Brussels, where Marx and Engels had at that point
and its great Theory worked out and defended controversial. made during a visit, the wide-Ling
Marx, was the Russian writer Annienkoff present, and he describes in his memoirs a violent clash
between Marx and Weitling. Weitling, the working-class emerged was, Marx was convened against the
basic assumption, and indeed on the emotional side his theory, and it is remarkable how vigorously
to Marx Annienkoff Weitling against the indispensability of scientific thought stressed concrete
and once with his fist hitting the table exclaimed angrily: "Never before has someone exploited ignorance!"

Four
years later, after the Revolution came, Marx in conflict with his former comrades, in a similar manner
as Weitling invoked the feeling and will. It was the by Karl Schapper and A. Willich led faction
of the Communist League. The contrast repeated in the years 1870 to 1872 in the International Workers
Association in the struggle of Marx against the Russian socialist revolutionary Michael Bakunin, the,
and more of it - I can not say "student" or even "comrades", although he exerted great influence
on Bakunin, but - temporarily campaigner Bakunin, the students Nechayev,
which must be regarded as a forerunner of Bolshevism.

His ideas are explained and criticized in much of Friedrich Engels, in accordance with Marx
written text: "A conspiracy against the International." used with extreme sharpness of this
in particular against the Revolutionsromantismus of Bakunin, the Netchaev even to the extreme
overconfidence, then came out that a kind of socialism in the sense of Rinaldo Rinaldini. Bakunin
had glorified especially the Russian robber and was gone so far as to declare it would open the prisons,
if you make revolution. A speculation on items that without regard to theory and morality and so
absolutely in contrast to parent company presented. The rejection of such fantasies, and the
emphasis on the relationship of the development to socialism with
the development of the economy in general, that is the last production,
shall be the idea of ​​Marx's theory.

This is the sentence already quoted from the Foreword to "Capital" that the present society - the
society of liberal economics, "No solid crystal, but a conversion capabilities and a continuing
process of transformation subjugated organism "is much more important than some other set,
which is often cited. In "Das Kapital" Marx says in another place, where he speaks of the
factory legislation and describes the effect of the ten-hour day on the cotton workers of
Lancashire:

"Nevertheless, had won the principle [8] with his victory in the great Industries that the most
characteristic of the modern creature Production. Their wonderful development from 1853 to
1860, hand in hand with the physical and moral rebirth of the Factory workers struck the dullest
eye. "

[8] The statutory limitation of working hours. Ed. B.

And in connection with the previously quoted sentence in the Preface, Marx says:

"In England, the conversion process (the social transformation process) palpable. At a certain height he has
on the Continent of kickback. There he is in brutal or humane Forms move, depending on the
degree of development of the working class itself apart from higher motives, therefore, commanded
the now ruling classes of their own interests, the removal of all legally controlled obstacles
that the development of Inhibit working class. I have therefore including the history, Content
and the results of English factory legislation such a extensive space given in this volume.
A nation should and can learn from the other. "

  
  Also showing, may I say, a strong reformist impact of the train
  of thought for revolutionary theory of Marx. The further he progresses
  in the spiritual development, more so when he finds the idea
  of ​​the relationship between the economic development level and
the possibilities of political and legal procedures more accurate
expression.

   In In 1875, he says in his letter on the draft of the Gotha Programme
of the then united Social Democracy:

"The law can never be higher
than the economic structure and the resulting cultural development
of society.

"

  
  When Bolshevism now - I repeat: in his doctrine! - Everything will
  ignore the or circumvented. Bolshevism is based either on the Communist
  Manifesto, with its succinctly pointed, but the early period of
  Marx and Engels belonging utterances where they liked in it "=
  à = EPAT le bourgeois" - the citizen something amazing man to say.
  Or he is later pronouncements of Marx Herausreißung out of context
  ungeschlachteste the interpretation and coarsened. As Marx says in
  the penultimate chapter of the first Band of "Capital" of the historical
  tendency of capitalist accumulation features:
  

"The concentration of the means of production and the socialization of work to reach a point [ie
during the capitalist development. Ed. B.], where it is unbearable its capitalist shell. The
knell of capitalist Private property sounds. The Expropiateurs be expropriated. "

So if the development itself is incompatible with the capitalist shell, then the expropriators
- Marx calls the capitalists "expropriation" because the competition
in the large expropriate the capitalists small - expropriated expropriated.

  For this, a historical Prospects undersigned set Bolsheviks have made
  the saying: "Deprived of the robbers!" and workers have taken this
literally and often followed a drastic application.

The entrepreneur par excellence, rather than economic expropriators, as a moral thief, portrayed
as thieves. This is in direct contrast to Marx, "in the preface to Das Kapital, where he points
out, that it come in the book capitalist and landlords are not very good, not appear in the
rosy light, explicitly says:

"It is but as a personification of economic Categories. Less than that of any other can be my position
that the development of the economic formation of society as a process of natural history
interprets the individual responsible make for situations whose creature
he remains socially, much as he also subjectively raise himself above
them. like "

  
  
  In every respect, I say, on these points, the Bolshevik doctrine of Marx's
  Teaching coarsened, you could say barbarized. The historical,
  ie up to a certain Level of economic development necessary function
of the entrepreneur as the driving agent production is eliminated
with her - and this in turn contradicts Marx, who third volume of
his book "The capital, however, have the least read in a the last
- 24 - Chapter, which deals with the sources of income, continue,
that additional work at all as a work of the worker on the degree
of the given needs must also remain accessible, and it adds to the
already-cited phrase:

"It is a civilization of the part of the capital
is that these More work in a manner and under conditions of force,
which the Development of the productive forces of social relations
and the creation of the elements for a higher formation more favorable
than under the earlier forms of slavery and Servitude.

"

Marx thus shows again that the capital so hard he would otherwise attack and important, the progress
promoting, he says explicitly civilizing functions fulfilled in the development of human society.

About
all that and the resulting added to economic policy inferences are Bolshevism defied cool and
treated the violence as Allschöpferin. Utilized Bolsheviks are found in a certain increase -
even more than Lenin Bukharin, Sinowieff and others - sets out the violence simply attributed
to the forces of magic cure-all be. You need to have only the violence, then we could develop
according to his will ! Draw Here are some proofs:

  
  Marx said - and this is important again - 1859 in the preface to the
  book "Critique of Political Economy ":
  
  "No social order ever perishes before all the Productive forces are developed,
  for which it is far enough, and new higher relations of production
never take the place before the material conditions of their existence
in the womb of the old Society itself was hatched.

"

In the preface to the first volume "Das Kapital" to read:

"Even if a company the natural law of its motion to the Track has come - and it is the ultimate
aim of this work, the to unveil economic law of motion of modern society - they can not skip
stages of natural development or . Wegdekreditieren But it can shorten the birth pangs and
. Mitigate "

  
  Thus Marx. Now take that record of N. Bukharin, "The program of the
  communists" (Bolsheviks) at hand. There, boldly, the socialist revolution
  by the dictatorship of the working class in Russia, throughout
  this undeveloped land, as a matter of immediate Presence proclaims with
  the remark: "dictatorship of the working class means the state power
the working class, which strangles the bourgeoisie and the landlords'
and immediately afterwards:

"This power of workers can only come
from the socialist revolution working-class adults, the bourgeois
state and the Civil power destroyed.

"

And that is written in a country which is known to a civil state in
general not yet been added!

Furthermore, it is, the dictatorship would be "an iron, a word which, recurs in this book,
even many times in the literature of Bolshevism and is interpreted in the most brutal sense. Some
sites to read:

"We now see that a violation of freedom in any relationship the opponents of the revolution is
necessary.

It may be in the Revolution no freedom for the enemies of the people and the revolution to give. "

As
enemies of the revolution but not only all the bourgeois parties
indiscriminately portrayed, but also those socialists (Mensheviks
and Social Revolutionaries), the on a different position than are
the Bolsheviks.

  It is the most extreme terrorism, one can imagine. In the
  writings of Leon Trotsky, "The Soviet Government and the International
  has held a lecture that Trotsky untrained Russian workers - Imperialism
  - Reads:
  

"In the middle but would want the politicians who, soon after left
turn now to the right.

  They are representatives of the Mensheviks and the right-wing Social
  Revolutionaries, they would say: "The Power must be shared equally. ""

He
  told workers! And he continues:
  
  "But, comrades, the power is not a loaf of bread that one in two
  can cut halves, cut into four new parts.

"

Which comparison and the denial of the story! The purpose of showing the following theorem. Trotsky
lecturing:

  "The power is the means by which a particular class secured their rule.
  Either this is an instrument of Working class, or it is against
  the working class. "

So that development in the life of nations is spread from one state of society to the contrary,
there is no transition, no development, but only the inversion by the power. It goes like this:

"Here
there is no choice.

  As long as there are two enemies - the Bourgeoisie and the proletariat,
  and with it the poorest peasants - and as long as these two enemies fight
  each other, they can of course not have a common weapon.

It's not conceivable that a cannon at the same time as one army as well the other can serve.
"

To properly assess the nature of this argument, which must remain mindful circumstances under which
it was submitted and which was the development level of the country, in which they work has been
impressed.

  Never did Marx and Engels, the political workers Question in so childishly
  simple-minded opposition shown. Even as Germany already economically on
  a much higher level than was the Russia of 1918 - from the cultural
  not to develop all - they still have a temporary support of advanced
Bourgeoisie by the socialist workers declared displayed.

  
  Following the pattern of the foregoing, the term power very naive
and undeveloped people adapted deductions, which extend through the
entire document as a propaganda translated into all languages Lecture
and pull with similarly strange claims about the causes and forces
alternate world war, Trotsky comes to the exercise of political power
by the Bolsheviks to speak and raises the following arguments claim
to apologize for their mistakes:

"Some say: why do not you have taken
the power when it has previously have not learned to use it?

 Inside, at number eight, the one little gas jet revealed presently just
what Aunt Blin had told about: the scarlet and black three-ply carpet in a really handsome
pattern of raised leaves; the round table in the middle with a red cloth, and the square one
in the corner with a brown linen one; the little Parlor Beauty stove, with a boiler atop and
an oven in the side,--an oval braided mat before it, and a mantel shelf above with some vases
and books upon it,--all the books, some dozen in number, that Aunt Blin had ever owned in the
whole course of her life. One of the blue vases had a piece broken out of its edge, but that
was turned round behind. The closets, one on each side of the fire-place, answered for pantry,
china closet, store-room, wardrobe, and all. The refrigerator was out on the stone window-sill
on the east side. The room had corner windows, the house standing at the head of a little paved
alley that ran down to Hero Street.

"There!" says Aunt Blin turning up the gas cheerily, and dropping her shawl upon a chair. "Now
I'll go and get Bartholomew, and then I'll run for some muffins, and you can make a fire. You
know where all the things are, you know!"

That was the way she made Bel welcome; treating her at once as part and parcel of everything.

Down stairs ran Aunt Blin; she came up more slowly, bringing the great Bartholomew in her arms,
and treading on her petticoats all the way.

Straight up to the square table she walked, where Bel had set down her bird-cage, with the
newspaper pinned over it. Aunt Blin pulled the paper off with one hand, holding Bartholomew
fast under the other arm. His big head stuck out before, and his big tail behind; both eager,
restless, wondering, in port and aspect.

"Now, Bartholomew," said Aunt Blin, in her calmest, most confident, most deliberate tones,
"see here! We've brought--home--a little bird, Bartholomew!"

Bartholomew's big head was electric with feline expression; his ears stood up, his eyes sent
out green sparks; hair and whiskers were on end; he devoured poor little Cheeps already with
his gaze; his tail grew huger, and vibrated in great sweeps.

"O see, Aunt Blin!" cried Bel. "He's just ready to spring. He don't care a bit for what you say!"

Aunt Blin gave a fresh grip with her elbow against Bartholomew's sides, and went on with unabated
faith,--unhurried calmness.

"We set everything by that little bird, Bartholomew! We wouldn't have it touched for all the
world! Don't--you--never--go--near it! Do you hear?"

Bartholomew heard. Miss Bree could not see his tail, fairly lashing now, behind her back, nor
the fierce eyes, glowing like green fire. She stroked his head, and went on preaching.

"The little bird sings, Bartholomew! You can hear it, mornings, while you eat your breakfast.
And you shall have CHEESE for breakfast as long as you're good, and don't--touch--the bird!"

"O, Aunt Blin! He will! He means to! Don't show it to him any more! Let me hang it way up high,
where he can't!"

"Don't you be afraid. He understands now, that we're precious of it. Don't you, Bartholomew?
I want him to get used to it."

And Aunt Blin actually set the cat down, and turned round to take up her shawl again.

Bartholomew was quiet enough for a minute; he must have his cat-pleasure of crouching and creeping;
he must wait till nobody looked. He knew very well what he was about. But the tail trembled
still; the green eyes were still wild and eager.

"The kindlings are in the left-hand closet, you know," said Aunt Blin, with a big pin in her
mouth, and settling her shoulders into her shawl. "You'll want to get the fire going as quick
as you can."

Poor Bel turned away with a fearful misgiving; not for that very minute, exactly; she hardly
supposed Bartholomew would go straight from the sermon to sin; but for the resistance of evil
enticements hereafter, under Miss Bree's trustful system,--though he walked off now like a
deacon after a benediction,--she trembled in her poor little heart, and was sorely afraid she
could not ever come to love Aunt Blin's great gray pet as she supposed she ought.

Aunt Blin had not fairly reached the passage-way, Bel had just emerged from the closet with
her hands full of kindlings, and pushed the door to behind her with her foot, when--crash!
bang!--what had happened?

A Boston earthquake? The room was full of a great noise and scramble. It seemed ever so long
before Bel could comprehend and turn her face toward the centre of it; a second of time has
infinitesimal divisions, all of which one feels and measures in such a crisis. Then she and
Aunt Blin came together at a sharp angle of incidence in the middle of the room, the kindlings
scattered about the carpet; and there was the corollary to the exhortation. The overturned
cage,--the dragged-off table-cloth,--the clumsy Bartholomew, big and gray, bewildered, yet
tenacious, clinging to the wires and sprawling all over them on one side with his fearful bulk,
and the tiny green and golden canary flattened out against the other side within, absolutely
plane and prone with the mere smite of terror.

"You awful wild beast! I knew you didn't mind!" shrieked Bel, snatching at the little cage
from which Bartholomew dropped discomfited, and chirping to Cheepsie with a vehemence meant
to be reassuring, but failing of its tender intent through frantic indignation. It is impossible
to scold and chirp at once, however much one may want to do it.

"You dreadful tiger cat!" she repeated. It almost seemed as if her love for Aunt Blin let loose
more desperately her denunciations. There is something in human nature which turns most passionately,--if
it does turn,--upon one's very own.

"I can't bear you! I never shall! You're a horrid, monstrous, abominable, great, gray--wolf!
I knew you were!"

Miss Bree fairly gasped.

When she got breath, she said slowly, mournfully, "O Bartholomew! I thought I could have trusted
you! Was you a murderer in your heart all the time? Go away! I've--no--con--fidence in you!
No co-on--fidence in you, Bartholomew Bree!"

It is impossible to write or print the words so as to suggest their grieved abandonment of
faith, their depth of loving condemnation.

If Bartholomew had been a human being! But he was not; he was only a great gray cat. He retreated,
shamefaced enough for the moment, under the table. He knew he was scolded at; he was found
out and disappointed; but there was no heart-shame in him; he would do exactly the same again.
As to being trusted or not, what did he care about that?

"I don't believe you do," said Aunt Blin, thinking it out to this same point, as she watched
his face of greed, mortified, but persistent; not a bit changed to any real humility. Why do
they say "dogged," except for a noble holding fast? It is a cat which is selfishly, stolidly
obstinate.

"I don't know as I shall really like you any more," said Aunt Blin, with a terrible mildness.
"To think you would have ate that little bird!"

Aunt Blin's ideal Bartholomew was no more. She might give the creature cheese, but she could
not give him "confidence."

Bel and the bird illustrated something finer, higher, sweeter to her now. Before, there had
only been Bartholomew; he had had to stand for everything; there was a good deal, to be sure,
in that.

But Bel was so astonished at the sudden change,--it was so funny in its meek manifestation,--that
she forgot her wrath, and laughed outright.

"Why, Auntie!" she cried. "Your beautiful Bartholomew, who understood, and let alone!"

Aunt Blin shook her head.

"I don't know. I thought so. But--I've no--con-fidence in him! You'd better hang the cage up
high. And I'll go out for the muffins."

Bel heard her saying it over again, as she went down the stairs.

"No, I've no--con-fidence in him!"

CHAPTER VIII.

TO HELP: SOMEWHERE.

There was an administratrix's notice tacked up on the great elm-tree by the Bank door, in Upper
Dorbury Village.

All indebted to the estate of Joseph Ingraham were called upon to make payment,--and all having
demands against the same to present accounts,--to Abigail S. Ingraham.

The bakery was shut up. The shop and house-blinds were closed upon the street. The bright little
garden at the back was gay with summer color; roses, geraniums, balsams, candytuft; crimson
and purple, and white and scarlet flashed up everywhere. But Mrs. Ingraham had on a plain muslin
cap, instead of a ribboned one such as she was used to wear; and Dot was in a black calico
dress; they sat in the kitchen window together, ripping up some breadths of faded cloth that
they were going to send to the dye-house. Ray was in the front room, looking over papers. Mrs.
Ingraham's name appeared in the notices, but Ray really did the work, all except the signing
of the necessary documents.

Everything was very different here, the moment Joseph Ingraham's breath was gone from his body.
Everything that had stood in his name stood now in the name of an "estate." Large or small,
an estate has always to be settled. There had been a man already applying to buy out the remainder
of the bakery lease,--house and all. He was ready to take it for eight years, including the
one it had yet to run in the present occupancy; he would pay them a considerable bonus for
relinquishing this and the goodwill.

Ray had stood at the helm and brought the vessel to port; that was different from undertaking
another voyage. She did not see that she had any right to hazard her mother's and sister's
little means, and incur further risks which she had not actual capital to meet, for the ambition,
or even possible gain, of carrying on a business. She understood it perfectly; she could have
done it; she could, perhaps, have worked out some of her own new ideas; if she and Dot had
been brothers, instead of sisters, it would very likely have been what they would have done.
There was enough to pay all debts and leave them upwards of a thousand dollars apiece. But
Ray sat down and thought it all over. She remembered that they were women, and she saw how
that made all the difference.

"Suppose either of us should wish to marry? Dot might, at any rate."

That was the way she said it to herself. She really thought of Dot especially and first; for
it would be her doing if her sister were bound and hampered in any way; and even though Dot
were willing, could she see clear to decide upon an undertaking that would involve the seven
best years of the child's life, in which "who knew what might happen?"

She did not look straight in the face her own possibilities, yet she said simply in her own
mind, "A woman ought to leave room for that. It might be cheating some one else, as well as
herself, if she didn't." And she saw very well that a woman could not marry and assume family
ties, with a seven years' lease of a bakehouse and a seven years' business on her hands. "Why--he
might be a--anything," was the odd little wording with which she mentally exclaimed at this
point of her considerations. And if he were anything,--anything of a man, and doing anything
in the world as a man does,--what would they do with two businesses? The whole vexed question
solved itself to her mind in this home-fashion. "It isn't natural; there never will be much
of it in the world," she said. "Young women, with their real womanhood in them, won't; and
by the time they've lived on and found out, the chances will be over. To do business as a man
does, you must choose as a man does,--for your whole life, at the beginning of it."

Ray Ingraham, with all her capacity and courage, at this turning-point where choice was given
her, and duty no longer showed her one inevitable way, chose deliberately to be a woman. She
took up a woman's lot, with all its uncertainty and disadvantage; the lot of working for others.

"I can find something simply to do and to be paid for; that will be safe and faithful; that
will leave room."

She said something like that to Frank Sunderline, when he sat talking with her over some building
accounts one evening.

He had come in as a friend and had helped them in many little ways; beside having especial
occasion in this matter, as representing his own employer who held a small demand against the
estate.

"I am too young," she told him. "Dot is too young. I should feel as if I must have her with
me if I kept on, and we should need to keep all the little money together. How can I tell what
Dot--how can I tell what either of us"--she changed her word with brave honesty, "might have
a wish for, before seven years were over? If I were forty years old, and could do it, I would;
I would take girls for journeymen,--girls who wanted work and pay; then they would be brought
up to a very good business for women, if they came to want business and they would be free,
while they were girls, for happier things that might happen."

"That is good Woman's Rights doctrine; it doesn't leave out the best right of all."

"A woman can't shape out her life all beforehand, as a man can; she can't be sure, you see;
and nobody else could feel sure about her. I suppose that is what has kept women out of the
real business world,--the ordering and heading of things. But they can help. I'm willing to
help, somehow; and I guess the world will let me."

There was something that went straight to Frank Sunderline's deepest, unspoken apprehension
of most beautiful things, in Ray Ingraham's aspect as she said these words. The man in him
suddenly perceived, though vaguely, something of what God meant when He made the woman. Power
shone through the beauty in her face; but power ready to lay itself aside; ready to help, not
lead. Made the most tender, because most perfect outcome and blossom of humanity, woman accepts
her conditions, as God Himself accepts his own, when He hides Himself away under limitations,
that the secret force may lie ready to the work man thinks he does upon the earth and with
it. In dumb, waiting nature, his own very Self bides subject; yes, and in the things of the
Spirit, He gives his Son in the likeness of a servant. He lays help upon him; He lays help
for man upon the woman. He took her nearest to Himself when He made her to be a help meet in
all things to his Adam-child. To "help" is to do the work of the world.

Ray's face shone with the splendor of self-forgetting, when she said that she would "help,
somewhere."

What made him suddenly think of his own work? What made him say, with a flash in his eyes,--

"I've got a job of my own, Ray, at last. Did you know it?"

"I'm very glad," said Ray, earnestly. "What is it?"

"A house at Pomantic. Rather a shoddy kind of house,--flashy, I mean, and ridiculously grand;
but it's work; and somebody has to build all sorts, you know. When I build my house--well,
never mind! Holder has put this contract right into my hands to carry out. He'll step over
and look round, once in a while, but I'm to have the care of it straight through,--stock, work,
and all; and I'm to have half the profits. Isn't that high of Holder? He has his hands full,
you know, at River Point. There's no end of building there, this year a whole street going
up--with Mansard roofs, of course. Everything is going into this house that can go into a house;
and to see that it gets in right will be--practice, anyhow."

Sunderline chattered on like a boy; almost like a girl, telling Ray what he was so glad of.
And Ray listened, her cheek glowing; she was so glad to be told.

He had not said a word of this to Marion Kent that afternoon, when she had stopped him at her
window, going by. He had stood there a few minutes, leaning against the white fence, and looking
across the little door-yard, to answer the questions she asked him; about the Ingrahams, the
questions were; but he did not offer to come nearer.

Marion was sewing on a rich silk dress, sea-green in color; it glistened as she shifted it
with busy fingers under the light; it contrasted exquisitely with her fair, splendid hair,
and the cream and rose of her full blonde complexion. It was a "platform dress," she told him,
laughing; she was going with the Leverings on a reading and musical tour; they had got a little
company together, and would give entertainments in the large country towns; perhaps go to some
of the fashionable springs, or up among the mountain places; folks liked their amusements to
come after them, from the cities; they were sure of audiences where people had nothing to do.

Marion was in high spirits. She felt as if she had the world before her. She would travel,
at any rate; whether there were anything else left of it or not, she would have had that; that,
and the sea-green dress. While she talked, her mother was ironing in the back room. The dress
was owed for. She could not pay for it till she began to get her own pay.

What was the use of telling a girl like that--all flushed with beauty and vanity, and gay expectation--about
his having a house to build? What would it seem to her,--his busy life all spring and summer
among the chips and shavings, hammering, planing, fitting, chiseling, buying screws, and nails,
and patent fastenings, tiles and pipes; contriving and hurrying, working out with painstaking
in laborious detail an agreement, that a new rich man might get into his new rich house by
October? When she had only to make herself lovely and step out among the lights before a gay
assembly, to be applauded and boqueted, to be stared at and followed; to live in a dream, and
call it her profession? When Frank Sunderline knew there was nothing real in it all; nothing
that would stand, or remain; only her youth, and prettiness, and forwardness, and the facility
of people away from home and in by-places to be amused with second-rate amusement, as they
manage to feed on second-rate fare?

It was no use to say this to her, either; to warn her as he had done before. She must wear
out her illusions, as she would wear out her glistening silk dress. He must leave her now,
with the shimmer of them all about her imagination, bewildering it, as the lovely, lustrous
heap upon her lap threw a bewilderment about her own very face and figure, and made it for
the moment beautiful with all enticing, outward complement and suggestion.

He told Ray Ingraham; and he said what a pity it was; what a mistake.

Ray did not answer for a minute; she had a little struggle with herself; a little fight with
that in her heart which made itself manifest to her in a single quick leap of its pulses.

Was she glad? Glad that Marion Kent was living out, perversely, this poor side of her--making
a mistake? Losing, perhaps, so much?

"Marion has something better in her than that," she made herself say, when she replied. "Perhaps
it will come out again, some day."

"I think she has. Perhaps it will. You have always been good and generous to her, Ray."

What did he say that for? Why did he make it impossible for her to let it go so?

"Don't!" she exclaimed. "I am not generous to her this minute! I couldn't help, when you said
it, being satisfied--that you should see. I don't know whether it is mean or true in me, that
I always do want people to see the truth."

She covered it up with that last sentence. The first left by itself, might have shown him more.
It was certainly so; that there was a little severity in Ray Ingraham, growing out of her clear
perception and her very honesty. When she could see a thing, it seemed as if everybody ought
to see it; if they did not, as if she ought to show them, that they might fairly understand.
A half understanding made her restless, even though the other half were less kind and comfortable.

"You show the truth of yourself, too," said Frank. "And that is grand, at any rate."

"You need not praise me," said Ray, almost coldly. "It is impossible to be quite true, I think.
The nearer you try to come to it, the more you can't"--and then she stopped.

"How many changes there have been among us!" she began again, suddenly, at quite a different
point, "All through the village there have been things happening, in this last year. Nobody
is at all as they were a year ago. And another year"--

"Will tell another year's story," said Frank Sunderline. "Don't you like to think of that sometimes?
That the story isn't done, ever? That there is always more to tell, on and on? And that means
more to do. We are all making a piece of it. If we stayed right still, you see,--why, the Lord
might as well shut up the book!"

He was full of life, this young man, and full of the delight of living. There was something
in his calling that made him rejoice in a confident strength. He was born to handle tools;
hammer and chisel were as parts of him. He builded; he believed in building; in something coming
of every stroke. Real work disposes and qualifies a man to believe in a real destiny,--a real
God. A carpenter can see that nails are never driven for nothing. It is the sham work, perhaps,
of our day, that shakes faith in purpose and unity; a scrambling, shifty living of men's own,
that makes to their sight a chance huddle and phantasm of creation.

Mrs. Ingraham came down into the room where they were, at this moment, and Dot presently followed.
They began to talk of their plans. They were going, now, to live with the grandmother in Boston,
in Pilgrim Street.

It was a comfortable, plain old house, in a little strip of neighborhood long since left of
fashion, and not yet demanded of business; so Mrs. Rhynde could afford to occupy it. She had
used, for many years, to let out a part of her rooms,--these that the Ingrahams would take,--in
a tenement, as people used to say, making no ambitious distinctions; now, it might be spoken
of as "a flat," or "apartments." Everything is "apartments" that is more than a foothold.

The rooms were large, but low. At the back, they were sunny and airy; they looked through,
overlapping a court-way, into Providence Square. It was a real old Boston homestead, of which
so few remain. 

So cruel but this term may be, it is not cruel as the fate of the so designated. An old girl to
be called, who have a fate to which their own debt only in rare cases, a significant proportion. It is
mostly a old girl how to be a genius without merit or guilt, but with the cut, except that the
genius, because it is the Divine, of course, all the credit of, the old girl but because it
carries a fateful accident, everything will be counted as a liability. There are in the strictest
sense necessarily old girl: natural and social conditions do it this way: what is necessary,
just that mocked and laughed at me to see is the most merciless and intolerable.


In the book that binds up this story, there is but the turn of a leaf between them. A great
many of us may be as near as that to each other in the telling of the world's story, who never
get the leaf turned over, or between whom the chapters are divided, with never a connecting word.

The Ingrahams moved into Boston in the early summer. It was July when Bel came down from the
hill-country with Aunt Blin.

CHAPTER IX.

INHERITANCE.

Do you remember somebody else who lives in Boston? Have you heard of the old house in Greenley
Street, and Uncle Titus Oldways, and Desire Ledwith, who came home with him after her mother
and sisters went off to Europe, and something had touched her young life that had left for
a while an ache after it? Do you know Rachel Froke, and the little gray parlor, and the ferns,
and the ivies, and the canary,--and the old, dusty library, with its tall, crowded shelves,
and the square table in the midst, where Uncle Oldways sat? All is there still, except Uncle
Oldways. Such a rose, which you have just seen, has the power to their Owners to get
his life young and beautiful. Therefore not easily missed because someone, to get his Rose, it
just depends on finding the right way, for the entrances are many and often surprising. Here it
passes through a densely overgrown fence, there Winkelpfoertchen by a narrow, sometimes "-
and Mrs Abel saw her husband, the newly entered the room, with mischievous eyes - sometimes
through the window! "

Mr. Hinzelmeier smiled and sat next to the bed of his son.

Then told Mrs. Abel continued:

"This is the largest number of young women released from their confinement and leaves with the
owner of the rose garden. Even your mother was a young woman and Rose used for sixteen years,
the rose of your father. Who voruebergeht but in the garden without einzukehren who may never
go back, only the young woman rose to three times three is Years allowed to go out into the
world to seek the Lord, and rose through the Rose to redeem from captivity. Find them at that
time did not, it must in the garden and back again three times only after three years once the
experiment renew, but few take the first, almost no second gear, for the Rose Maidens shun
the world and when they go so in their white robes, so they go with downcast eyes and trembling
feet, and was among hundreds of such little Kuehnen one of the wandering Mr. Rose found. For
these, but then lost the rose; and during the virgin to perpetual imprisonment has fallen, he
also has the grace his birth and must be forfeited as the common humanity perish miserably and age .-- Also
you, my son belong to the Rose men's and you come out into the world, then forget the Rose garden
not. "

Mr. Abel Hinzelmeier bowed to the woman and kissed her silken hair, then he said, friendly touching
the boy's other hand: "You are now large enough you probably want
to in the world, and learn an art?

"

"Yes," said Hinzelmeier, "but it would have to be a great art, so one that no one else has been
able to learn! "

Mrs. Abel shook his head sorrowfully, the father said, 'I want you
to have a Bring master who lives many miles from here in a big city,
because you like yourself an art election.

"

Since Hinzelmeier was satisfied.

A few days later Mrs. Abel grabbed a large suitcase with clothes and
innumerable Hinzelmeier still put themselves into a shaving kit, so
he's beard when he came at once cut again.

Then one day the car drove in front of the door and when the mother hugged her son good-bye, "she
said through tears to him:" Forget the rose is not! "

Krahirius

As Hinzelmeier been a year with the wise master, he wrote his parents
that he had now chosen an art that he wanted to?

Philosopher's Stone? look, after two years will absolve the master him, then he wanted to wander
and never come back, until he had found the stone. This is an art which still learned by anyone
been, for even the master really was just a former shareholders,
as the stone or not was found by him.

had the most beautiful woman
Abel read this letter, she folded her fingers together and exclaimed:
"Oh, he will never come in the Rose Garden will go to him as our neighbor!

Punch and Judy, who has moved out twenty years ago and never came back home! "

Mr. Hinzelmeier but kissed the beautiful woman and said: "He had to go his way I! for once wanted
to? Philosopher's Stone? and look I found instead the Rose. "

Hinzelmeier so then stayed with the wise master, and gradually went the time-herum. It was already
deep into the night. Hinzelmeier sat in front of a smoky lamp over
a tome bent.

But he did not succeed today, and he felt it beating in his veins and , Ferment it was a fear about
him than he can ever on an understanding of the deep Wisdom of Proverbs and formulas will be lost,
which kept the old book.

Sometimes he turned his pale face into the back room, staring mindlessly into the corner, where
the morose figure of his master in front of a low herd between a glowing bulb and fiddling jars,
and sometimes, when the bats vorueberstrichen to the windows, saw He longingly out into the
moonlit night, the outside was like a charm over the fields.

Besides the master of the Kraeuterfrau crouched on the ground. She had the gray house cat on the lap and
he gently dusted the sparks from the fur. Sometimes, when it quite pleasant crackle and the animal
meowed before pleasing horror, the Master reached back to caress him coughing and said: "The
cat is the companion of the wise!"

Suddenly, even from outside, from the ridge of the roof, which was
below the window, an elongated yearning sound, as of all the animals
only the cat and only in the Lenze powerful.

The cat sat up and dug his claws into the apron of the old woman. Still once outside it said. As the
animal ran with a rough set foot on the ground and will Hinzelmeiers
shoulders through the window to the outside, the glass shards sounding
behind him flew.

A sweeter Primelduft ran the train into the room. Hinzelmeier sprang up. "It's spring, Master,
"cried he threw his chair back.

The old man lowered his nose even deeper into the crucible. Hinzelmeier approached him and grabbed
him on the shoulder. "Do you hear, Master?"

The master grabbed the mixed gray beard and stared at the boy-bloed its green glasses on.

"The ice will burst!" Hinzelmeier cried, "it rings in the air!"

The master took him around the wrist and began to count the Pulsschlaege. "Ninety-six!" But
he said concern .-- Hinzelmeier ignoring it, but asked for his dismissal;
and even in the same hour.

Since the master was called to take him stick and knapsack and went
with him before the front door, from where they could go far into
the country.

The plane was unpredictable in clear moonlight to her feet. Here they stood, the face of the
master was furrowed of a thousand wrinkles, his back was bowed, his
beard hung down over his brown robe down, he looked out think other
like old.

Also Hinzelmeiers face was bare, but his eyes lit up.

"Your time is up," the master said to him. "Kneel down, that you may be absolved! Then he pulled
a white chopsticks out of the sleeves and the knee ends three times to the neck touching,
he said:

"The word is given under the spirits, call it art into life, So you're the master.

It is available in any kingdom.

It is a name, a mist, to find and create at the same time, This is the art! "

Then he told him to get up.

A shiver shot through the young man as he aged into solemn Face of the master looked up. He
took stick and knapsack from the floor and wanted to go from there, but the master said, "Forget
the ravens!" He put his fist in the lean Beard and a black hair pulled
out.

He blew through his fingers, as it swung as a raven in the air.

Now, he waved his wand in a circle around his head and waved as he flew the Raven, then He stretched
out his arm and the bird perched on his fist. Then he raised the green Glasses from his nose,
and while he stuck to the raven beak, he said:

"Ways shalt thou have, thou shalt Krahirius hot! -

Then she cried the raven "krahira krahira!" and jumped with outstretched wings on Hinzelmeiers Shoulder.
The master said to this:

"Hiking and walking spell book you have now, and now enough!"

Then he pointed his finger down into the valley where the road ran over the infinite plane and
Hinzelmeier while, greeting the traveling hat, went out in the Restoration
Process, swung Krahirius up and flew at his head.

The entrance to the Rose Garden

The sun was high in the sky.

Hinzelmeier had a short cut across a field with green Winter sowing taken that stretched before
him immeasurably. led to the end of that the track through an opening of the wall to a spacious
room addition and Hinzelmeier standing in front of the buildings of a large farm. It had rained
earlier, and now steaming Strohdaecher in the harsh Fruehlingssonne. He struck his walking stick
into the ground and looked First up to the house, where a people
are being driven by sparrows.

Suddenly saw he rise from one of the two chimneys a brilliant white disk in the air, slow down
and turn in the sunshine fall on it again in the chimney.

Hinzelmeier took out his pocket watch. "It's noon!" he said, "they baked pancakes." - A sweet fragrance
spread, and then climbed up into the sunshine pancake and fell back after a short while in
the chimney.

Hunger is not; Hinzelmeier entered the house to pass through a wide
corridor in a high, spacious kitchen, such as the manner to be in
the larger farms.

By the hearth, a light was burning on the brushwood fire, stood a burly farmer, and put the
dough in the sizzling pan.

Krahirius who flew silently along behind, sat on the hearth, mantle,
while Hinzelmeier asked if he does it for love or money can get a
meal here.

"This is not a pub!" the woman said, waving her ladle that the pancakes
crackling went up in the black chimney and after a while with the
top side in the Pan back clapped.

Hinzelmeier reached for his stick, he had placed at the entrance to the door: but the old woman
drove the fork into the cake and clapped him quickly to a bowl.

"Well, ! Now, "she said," it was not meant, he translated only;.

Is just a complete "Then they pushed him a wooden chair at the kitchen
table and put the steaming cake together Bread and a jug of wine,
young country under him.

That made Hinzelmeier put up and soon the rough food and a good part
of the solid Rye bread consumed.

Then he put the jug to his lips and took a hearty train on the health of the elderly and then
afterwards to his own health or some other.

This made him so proud that he uplift all like to sing by themselves. "He's a funny ! Man,
"cried the old woman across from her herd Hinzelmeier nodded. He fell at once all the songs again, he heard
ages ago in his parents' home by his beautiful mother had. Then he sang, one after the other:

"It is because the nightingale sang all night, From her sweet sound,

There are by Hall and jumped echo the roses.

She was otherwise a wild blood, Now she goes deep in thought, carries in his hand the summer
hat, and still tolerate the sun glow And do not start something.

It is because the nightingale sang all night! "-

As was in the wall opposite the hearth, among the ranks of the bright
pewter plates, a Schiebefensterchen withdrawn and a beautiful blond
girl, it might be the landlord's daughter, put curious head into the
kitchen.

Hinzelmeier, the clatter of the windows had heard heard, singing and let his eyes wander to
the walls of the kitchen, over the churn and the bare Cheese and
kettle over the broad backs of the elderly to the open Schiebefensterchen
where They were caught at two other young eyes.

The girl blushed .-- "He sings beautiful!" she said finally.

"I was just so," replied Hinzelmeier. "I sing nothing else."

Then both were silent for a while and you only heard the hissing of the frying pan and the patter
the pancakes. "Caspar sings beautiful too!" lifted the girl again.

"Well-true!" Hinzelmeier said.

"Yes," said the girl, "but as nice as he does, he's not yet. Where then has it beautiful song
from? "

Hinzelmeier did not answer, but was overturned on a tub, under the the sliding window, stood looking
at the girls passing in the chamber. Inside was full of sunshine. On the red tiles of the hall
were the shadows of carnations and Rosenstoecken which side want
to stand in front of a window.

Suddenly in the background of the chamber, a door was flung open.
The Fruehlingswind in. roared and ripped the girl a blue silk ribbon
on the hood latch; he propelled through the sliding window, and drove
his prey orbiting around in the kitchen. Hinzelmeier but then threw
his hat and caught it like a summer bird.

The window was a little
high. He wanted it up long the girl, she bent to the of it, since
both take our heads together that there was a crash. The girls screamed;
rattled the tin plates, Hinzelmeier was very confused.

"He even has
a brave mind!" said the girl with her hand and wiped the tears of
the cheeks. But Hinzelmeier the hair from his forehead and into her
hearty Face looked as she lowered her eyes and said, "He has done
it but no harm?"

Hinzelmeier laughed. "No, miss!" he cried - he did
not know himself how he was at once had to think - "Take me not amiss,
but it has certainly been a treasure?"

She put his fist under his
chin and tried to look at him defiantly, but her eyes remained to
its slopes. "He babbles well," she said softly.

Hinzelmeier shook
his head, there was silence between the two.

"Evening!" Hinzelmeier
said after a while, "I want to bring you the tape in the chamber!"

The
girl nodded.

"Where is because but the way?"

He sounded in my ears:
"Sometimes even the window" - that was the voice of his mother. He
saw her sitting on his bed, he saw her smile, he felt suddenly as
though it were in a rosy mist of hereinzog from the open sliding window
in the kitchen. He joined back to the tub and put his hands around
the neck of the girl. As he looked through the Kammertuer open into
a garden, and in it stood the blooming like a red Rosenbuesche Sea
and sang in the distance Crystalline Maedchenstimmen:

"Rinke, cirrus,
Rosenschein, Tu on you and lock ourselves in" -

Hinzelmeier urged
the girl gently back into the chamber and put his hands on the Window
sill, hineinzuschwingen around with a set, when he heard it: "krahira,
krahira!" buzzing over his head, and before he knew it, let the raven
from the green glasses the air and fall straight on his nose. Just
as in a dream he saw the girl's arms reach out to him, was then suddenly
everything vanished from his eyes, but in more Distance he looked
through the green glasses, a dark figure in a deep rock gorge sit
which with a crowbar eager to drill into the ground seemed.

A master
shot

This morning she had hurried herself and her aunt, come early, and put Miss Bree down, resolutely,
against all her disclaimers, in a corner of the very best window in the room. To do this, she
moved Matilda Meane's sewing-machine a little.

When Matilda Meane came in, she looked as though she thought the world was moved. She did not
exactly dare to order Miss Bree up; but she elbowed about, she pushed her machine this way
and that; she behaved like a hen hustled off her nest and not quite making up her mind whether
she would go back to it or not. Miss Bree's nose grew apprehensive; it drew itself up with
a little, visible, trembling gasp,--her small eyes glanced timidly from under the drawn, puckered
lids, it was evidently all she could do to hold her ground. But Bel had put her there, and
loyalty to Bel kept her passive. It is so much harder for some poor meek things ever to take
anything, than it is forever to go without. Only for love and gratefulness can they ever be
made to assume their common human rights.

Presently it had to come out.

Bel was singing away, as she gathered her work together in an opposite quarter of the room,
keeping a glance out at her right eye-corner, expectantly.

"Who moved this machine?" asked Matilda Meane, stopping short in her endeavors to make it take
up the middle of the window without absolutely rolling it over Aunt Blin's toes.

"I did, a little," answered Bel, promptly. "There was plenty of room for two; and if there
hadn't been, Aunt Blin must have a good light, and have it over her left shoulder, at that.
She's the oldest person in the room, Miss Meane!"

"She was spoken to yesterday about her buttonholes," she added, in a lower tone, to Eliza Mokey,
as she settled herself in her own seat next that young lady. "And it was all because she could
hardly see."

"Buttonholes or not," answered Eliza, who preferred to be called "Elise," "I'm glad somebody
has taken Mat Meane down at last. She needed it. I wish you could take her in hand everywhere.
If you boarded at our house"--

"I shouldn't," interrupted Bel, decisively. "Not under any circumstances, from what you tell
of it."

"That's all very well to say now; you're in clover, comparatively. 'Chaters' and real tea,--and
a three-ply carpet!"

Miss Mokey had gone home with Bel and Aunt Blin, one evening lately, when there had been work
to finish and they had made a "bee" of it.

"See if you could help yourself if you hadn't Aunt Blin."

"Why couldn't I help myself as well as she? She had a nice place all alone, before I came."

"She must have half starved herself to keep it, then. Stands to reason. Dollar and a quarter
a day, and five dollars a week for your room. Where's your muffins, and your Oolong? Or else,
where's your shoes?--Where's that Hamburg edging?"

"We don't have any Hamburg edging," said Bel, laughing.

"Nonsense. You know what I mean. O, here it is, under all that piqué! For mercy's sake, won't
Miss Tonker blow?--Now I get my nine dollars a week, and out of it I pay six for my share of
that miserable sky-parlor, and my ends of the crusts and the cheese-parings. No place to myself
for a minute. Why, I feel mixed up sometimes to that degree that I'd almost like to die, and
begin again, to find out who I am!"

"Well, I wouldn't live so. And Aunt Blin wouldn't. I'm afraid she didn't have other things
quite so--corresponding--when she was by herself; but she had the home comfort. And, truly,
now, I shouldn't wonder if there was real nourishment in just looking round,--at a red carpet
and things,--when you've got 'em all just to your own mind. You can piece out with--peace!"

For two or three minutes, there was nothing heard after that in Bel and Elise's corner, but
the regular busy click of the machines, as the tucks ran evenly through. Miss Tonker was hovering
in the neighborhood. But presently, as she moved off, and Elise had a spool to change, Bel
began again.

"Why don't you get up something different? Why couldn't a dozen, or twenty, take a flat, or
a whole house, and have a housekeeper, and live nice? I believe I could contrive."

Bel was a born contriver. She was a born reformer, as all poets are; only she did not know
yet that she was either. That had been the real trouble up in New Hampshire. She had her ideals,
and she could not carry them out; so she sat and dreamed of what she would do if she could.
If she might in any way have moulded her home to her own more delicate instincts, it may be
that her step-mother need not have had to complain that "there was no spunk or snap to her
about anything." It was not in her to "whew round" among tubs and whey,--to go slap-dash into
soapmaking, or the coarse Monday's washing, when all nicer cares were evaded or forbidden,
when chairs were shoved back against each other into corners, table-cloths left crooked, and
dragging and crumby, drawing the flies,--mantel ornaments of uncouth odds and ends pushed all
awry and one side during a dusting, and left so,--carpets rough and untidy at the corners;
no touch of prettiness or pleasantness, nothing but clear, necessary work anywhere. She would
have made home home; then she would have worked for it.

Aunt Blin was like her. She would rather sit behind her blinds in her neat, quiet room of a
Sunday, too tired to go to church, but with a kind of sacred rest about her, and a possible
hushed thought of a presence in a place that God had let her make that He might abide with
her in it,--than to live as these girls did,--even to have been young like them; to have put
on fine, gay things, bought with the small surplus of her weekly earnings after the wretched
board was paid, and parade the streets, or sit in a pew, with a Sunday-consciousness of gloves
and new bonnet upon her.

"O, faugh!" said Elise Mokey, impatiently, to Bel's "I could contrive." "I should like to see
you, with girls like Matilda Meane. You've got to get your dozen or twenty, first, and make
them agree."

Miss Mokey had very likely never heard of Mrs. Glass, or of the "catching your hare," which
is the impracticable hitch at the start of most delicious things that might otherwise be done.

"I think this world is a kind of single-threaded machine, after all. There's always something
either too tight or too loose the minute you double," she said, changing her tension-screw
as she spoke. "No; we've just got to make it up with cracker-frolics, the best way we can;
and that takes one more of somebody's nine dollars, every time. There's some fun in it, after
all, especially to see Matilda Meane come to the table. I do believe that girl would sell her
soul if she could have a Parker House dinner every day. When it's a little worse, or a little
better than usual, when the milk gives out, or we have a yesterday's lobster for tea,--I wish
you could just see her. She's so mad, or she's so eager. She will have claw-meat; it is claw-meat
with her, sure enough; and if anybody else gets it first, or the dish goes round the other
way and is all picked over,--she looks! Why, she looks as if she desired the prayers of the
congregation, and nobody would pray!"

"What are you two laughing at?" broke in Kate Sencerbox, leaning over from her table beyond.
"Bel Bree, where are your crimps?"

In the ardor of her work, or talk, or both, Bel's hair, as usual, had got pushed recklessly aside.

"O, I only have a little smile in my hair early in the morning," replies quick, cheery Bel.
"It never crimps decidedly, and it all gets straightened out prim enough as the day's work
comes on. It's like the grass of the field, and a good many other things; in the morning it
is fresh and springeth up; in the evening it giveth up, and is down flat."

"I guess you'll find it so," said Elise Mokey, splenetically.

"Was that what you were laughing at?" asked Kate. "Seems to me you choose rather aggravating
subjects."

"Aggravations are as good as anything to laugh at, if you only know how," Bel Bree said.

"They're always handy, at any rate," said Elise.

"I thought 'aggravate' meant making worse than it is," said quiet little Mary Pinfall.

"Just it, Molly!" answered Bel Bree, quick as a flash. "Take a plague, make it out seven times
as bad as it is, so that it's perfectly ridiculous and impossible, and then laugh at it. Next
time you put your finger on it, as the Irishman said of the flea, it isn't there."

"That's hommerpathy," said Miss Proddle. "Hommerpathy cures by aggravating."

Miss Proddle was tiresome; she always said things that had been said before, or that needed
no saying. Miss Proddle was another of those old girls who, like Miss Bree among the young
ones, have outlived and lost their Christian names, with their vivacity. Never mind; it is
the Christian name, and the Lord knows them by it, as He did Martha and Mary.

"Reductio ad absurdum," put in Grace Toppings, who had been at a High School, and studied geometry.

"Grace Toppings!" called out Kate Sencerbox, shortly, "you've stitched that flounce together
with a twist in it!"

Miss Tonker heard, and came round again.

"Gyurls!" she said, with elegantly severe authority, "I will not have this talking over the
work. Miss Toppings, this whole skirt is an unmitigated muddle. Head-tucks half an inch too
near the bottom! No room for your flounce. If you can't keep to your measures, you'd better
not undertake piece-work. Take that last welt out, and put it in over the top. And make no
more blunders, if you please, unless you want to be put to plain yard-stitching."

"Eight inches and a half is some room for a flounce, I guess, if it ain't nine inches," muttered
the mathematical Grace, as she began the slow ripping of the lock-stitched tucking, that would
take half an hour out of the value of her day.

"That's a comfort, ain't it?" whispered mischievous, sharp, good-natured Kate. "Look here;
I'll help, if you won't talk any more Latin, or Hottentot."

It was of no use to tell those girls not to talk over their work. The more work they had in
them, the more talk; it was a test, like a steam-gauge. Only the poor, pale, worn-out ones,
like Emma Hollen, who coughed and breathed short, and could not spend strength even in listening,
amidst the conflicting whirr of the feeds and wheels,--and the old, sobered-down, slow ones,
like Miss Bree and Miss Proddle, button-holing and gather-sewing for dear life, with their
spectacles over their noses, and great bald places showing on the tops of their bent heads,--kept
time with silent thoughts to the beat of their treadles and the clip of their needles against
the thimble-ends.

Elise Mokey stretched up her back slowly, and drew her shoulders painfully out of their steady
cramp.

"There! I went round without stopping! I put a sign on it, and I've got my wish! I'd rather
sweep a room, though, than do it again."

"You might sweep a room, instead," said Emma Hollen, in her low, faint tone, moved to speak
by some echo in that inward rhythm of her thinking. "I partly wish I had, before now."

"O, you goose! Be a kitchen-wolloper!"

"May be I sha'n't be anything, very long. I should like to feel as if I could stir round."

"I wouldn't care if anybody could see what it came to, or what there was left of it at the
year's end," said Elise Mokey.

"I'd sweep a room fast enough if it was my own," said Kate Sencerbox. "But you won't catch
me sweeping up other folks' dust!"

"I wonder what other folks' dust really is, when you've sifted it, and how you'd pick out your
own," said Bel.

"I'd have my own place, at any rate," responded Kate, "and the dust that got into it would
go for mine, I suppose."

Bel Bree tucked away. Tucked away thoughts also, as she worked. Not one of those girls who
had been talking had anything like a home. What was there for them at the year's end, after
the wearing round and round of daily toil, but the diminishing dream of a happier living that
might never come true? The fading away out of their health and prettiness into "old things
like Miss Proddle and Aunt Blin,"--to take their turn then, in being snubbed and shoved aside?
Bel liked her own life here, so far; it was pleasanter than that which she had left; but she
began to see how hundreds of other girls were going on in it without reward or hope; unfitting
themselves, many of them utterly, by the very mode of their careless, rootless existence,--all
of them, more or less, by the narrow specialty of their monotonous drudgery,--for the bright,
capable, adaptive many-sidedness of a happy woman's living in the love and use and beauty of home.

Some of her thoughts prompted the fashion in which she recurred to the subject during the hour's
dinner-time.

They were grouped together--the same half dozen--in a little ante-room, with a very dusty window
looking down into an alley-way, or across it rather, since unless they really leaned out from
their fifth story, the line of vision could not strike the base of the opposite buildings,
a room used for the manifold purposes of clothes-hanging, hand-washing, brush and broom stowing,
and luncheon eating.

"Girls! What would you do most for in this world? What would you have for your choice, if you
could get it?"

"Stories to read, and theatre tickets every night," said Grace Toppings.

"Something decent to eat, as often as I was hungry," said Matilda Meane, speaking thick through
a big mouthful of cream-cake.

"To be married to Lord Mortimer, and go and live in an Abbey," said Mary Pinfall, who sat on
a box with a cracker in one hand, and the third volume of her old novel in the other.

The girls shouted.

"That means you'd like a real good husband,--a Tom, or a Dick, or a Harry," said Kate Sencerbox.
"Lord Mortimers don't grow in this country. We must take the kind that do. And so we will,
every one of us, when we can get 'em. Only I hope mine will keep a store of his own, and have
a house up in Chester Park!"

"If I can ever see the time that I can have dresses made for me, instead of working my head
and feet off making them for other people, I don't care where my house is!" said Elise Mokey.

"Or your husband either, I suppose," said Kate, sharply.

"Wouldn't I just like to walk in here some day, and order old Tonker round?" said Elise, disregarding.
"I only hope she'll hold out till I can! Won't I have a black silk suit as thick as a board,
with fifteen yards in the kilting? And a violet-gray, with a yard of train and Yak-flounces!"

"That isn't my sort," said Kate Sencerbox, emphatically. "It's played out, for me. People talk
about our being in the way of temptation, always seeing what we can't have. It isn't that would
ever tempt me; I'm sick of it. I know all the breadth-seams, and the gores, and the gathers,
and the travelling round and round with the hems and trimmings and bindings and flouncings.
If I could get out of it, and never hear of it again, and be in a place of my own, with my
time to myself! Wouldn't I like to get up in the morning and choose what I would do?--when
it wasn't Fast Day, nor Fourth of July, nor Washington's Birthday, nor any day in particular?
I think, on the whole, I'd choose not to get up. A chance to be lazy; that's my vote, after
all, Bel Bree!"

"O, dear!" cried Bel, despairingly. "Why don't some of you wish for nice, cute little things?"

"Tell us what," said Kate. "I think we have wished for all sorts, amongst us."

"O, a real little home--to take care of," said Bel. "Not fine, nor fussy; but real sweet and
pleasant. Sunny windows and flowers, and a pretty carpet, and white curtains, and one of those
chromos of little round, yellow chickens. A best china tea-set, and a real trig little kitchen;
pies to make for Sundays and Thanksgivings; just enough work to do in the mornings, and time
in the afternoons to sit and sew, and--somebody to read to you out loud in the evenings! I
think I'd do anything--that wasn't wicked--to come to live just like that!"

"There isn't anybody that does live so nowadays," said Kate. "There's nothing between horrid
little stivey places, and a regular scrub and squall and slop all the week round, and silk
and snow and ordering other folks about. You've got to be top or bottom; and if it's all the
same to you, I mean to be top if I can; even if"--

Kate was a great deal better than her pretences, after all. She did not finish the bad sentence.

"I'll tell you what I do wonder at," said Bel Bree. "So many great, beautiful homes in this
city, and so few people to live in them. All the rest crowded up, and crowded out. When I go
round through Hero Street, and Pilgrim Street, and past all the little crammy courts and places,
out into the big avenues where all the houses stand back from each other with such a grand
politeness, I want to say, Move up a little, can't you? There's such small room for people
in there, behind!"

"Say it, why don't you? I'll tell you who'd listen. Washington, sitting on his big bronze horse,
pawing in the air at Commonwealth Avenue!"

"Well--Washington would listen, if he wasn't bronze. And its grand for everybody to look at
him there. I shouldn't really want the houses to move up, I suppose. It's good to have grandness
somewhere, or else nobody would have any place to stretch in. But there must be some sort of
moving up that could be, to make things evener, if we only knew!"

Poor little Bel Bree, just dropped down out of New Hampshire! What a problem the great city
was already to her!

Miss Tonker put her sub-aristocratic face in at the door. It is a curious kind of reflected
majesty that these important functionaries get, who take at first hand the magnificent orders,
and sustain temporary relations of silk-and-velvet intimacy with Spreadsplendid Park.

The hour was up. Mary Pinfall slid her romance into the pocket of her waterproof; Matilda Meane
swallowed her last mouthful of the four cream-cakes which she had valorously demolished without
assistance, and hastily washed her hands at the faucet; Kate and Elise and Grace brushed by
her with a sniff of generous contempt.

In two minutes, the wheels and feeds were buzzing and clicking again. What did they say, and
emphasize, and repeat, in the ears that bent over them? Mechanical time-beats say something,
always. They force in and in upon the soul its own pulses of thought, or memory, or purpose;
of imagination or desire. They weld and consolidate our moods, our elements. Twenty miles of
musing to the rhythmic throbbings of a railroad train, who does not know how it can shape and
deepen and confirm whatever one has started with in mind or heart?

CHAPTER XI.

CRISTOFERO.

A September morning on the deck of a steamer bound into New York, two days from her port.

A fair wind; waves gleaming as they tossed landward, with the white crests and the grand swell
that told of some mid-Atlantic storm, which had given them their impulse days since, and would
send them breaking upon the American capes and beaches, in splendid tumult of foam, and roar,
and plunge; "white horses," wearing rainbows in their manes.

The blue heaven full of sunshine; the air full of sea-tingle; a morning to feel the throb and
spring of the vessel under one's feet, as an answer to the throb and spring of one's own life
and eagerness; the leap of strength in the veins, and the homeward haste in the heart.

Two gentlemen, who had talked much together in the nine days of their ship-companionship, stood
together at the taffrail.

One was the Reverend Hilary Vireo, minister of Mavis Place Chapel, Boston,--coming back to
his work in glorious renewal from his eight weeks' holiday in Europe. The other was Christopher
Kirkbright, younger partner of the house of Ferguson, Ramsay, and Kirkbright, tea and silk
merchants, Hong Kong. Christopher Kirkbright had gone out to China from Glasgow, at the age
of twenty-one, pledged to a ten years' stay. For five years past, he had had a share in the
business for himself; for the two last, he had represented also the interest of Grahame Kirkbright,
his uncle, third partner; had inherited, besides, half of his estate; the other half had come
to our friend at home, his sister, Miss Euphrasia.

"I had no right to stay out there any longer, making my tools; multiplying them, without definite
purpose. It was time to put them to their use; and I have come home to find it. A man may take
till thirty-one to get ready, mayn't he, Mr. Vireo?"

"The man who took up the work of the world's salvation, began to be about thirty years of age
when he came forth to public ministry," returned Mr. Vireo.

"I never thought of that before. I wonder I never did. It has come home to me, in many other
parts of that Life, how full it is of scarcely recognized analogy to prevailing human experience.
That 'driving into the Wilderness!' What an inevitable interval it is between the realizing
of a special power and the finding out of its special purpose! I am in the Wilderness,--or
was,--Vireo; but I knew my way lay through it. I have been pausing--thinking--striving to know.
The temptations may not have been wanting, altogether, either. There are so many things one
can do easily; considering one's self, largely, in the plan. My whole life has waited, in some
chief respects, till the end of these ten pledged years. What was I to do with it? Where was
I to look for, and find most speedily, all that a man begins to feel the desire to establish
for himself at thirty years old? Home, society, sphere; I can tell you it is a strange feeling
to take one's fortune in one's hand and come forth from such a business exile, and choose where
one will make the first link,--decide the first condition, which may draw after all the rest.
Happily, I had my sister to come home to; and I had the remembrance of the little story my
mother told me--about my name. I think she looked forward for the boy who could know so little
then of the destiny partly laid out for him already."

"About your name?" reminded Mr. Vireo. He always liked to hear the whole of a thing; especially
a thing that touched and influenced spiritually.

"Yes. The story of Saint Cristofero. The strong man, Offero, who would serve the strongest;
who served a great king, till he learned that the king feared Satan; who then sought Satan
and served him, till he found that Satan feared the Cross; who sought for Jesus, then, that
he might serve Him, and found a hermit who bade him fast and pray. But he would not fast, since
from his food came his strength to serve with; nor pray, because it seemed to him idle; but
he went forth to help those who were in danger of being swept away, as they struggled to cross
the deep, wide River. He bore them through upon his shoulders,--the weak, the little, the weary.
At last, he bore a little child who entreated him, and the child grew heavy, and heavier, till,
when they reached the other side, Offero said,--'I feel as if I had borne the world upon my
shoulders!' And he was answered,--'Thou may'st say that; for thou hast borne Him who made the
world.' And then he knew that it was the Lord; and he was called no more 'Offero,' but 'Cristofero.'
My mother told me that when I was a little child; and the story has grown in me. The Christ
has yet to be borne on men's shoulders."

Hilary Vireo stood and listened with gleaming eyes. Of course, he knew the old saint-legend;
of course, Christopher Kirkbright supposed it; but these were men who understood without the
saying, that the verities are forever old and forever new. A mother's wise and tender tale,--a
child's life growing into a man's, and sanctifying itself with a purpose,--these were the informing
that filled afresh every sentence of the story, and made its repetition a most fair and sweet
origination.

"And so,"--

"And so, I must earn my name," said Christopher Kirkbright, simply.

"Lift them up, and take them across," said Hilary Vireo, as if thinking it over to himself.
The old story had quickened him. A grand perception came to him for his friend, who had begged
him to think for and advise him. "Lift them up and take them across!" he repeated, looking
into Mr. Kirkbright's face, and speaking the words to him with warm energy. "They are waiting--so
many of them! They are sinking down--so many! They want to be lifted through. They want--and
they want terribly--a place of safety on the other side. Go down into the river of temptation,
and hardship, and sin, and help them up out of it, Christopher. Take them up out of their cruel
conditions; make a place for some of them to begin over again in; for some of them to rest
in, once in a while, and take courage. Why shouldn't there be cities of refuge, now, Kirkbright? SM in Munich. The name George Dannenberg as the owner of numerous well-known novels Pseudonym
"Golo Raimund" was not the correct name of the author, but an invention of the publisher Karl
Rümpler in Hanover, in this way the audience's attention distracted from the real author. As
such, has died some time ago Mrs. Bertha Frederich, nee Heyn, in Hanover, widow of the former
Hanoverian court painter Dr. Frederich been found.


After a pause, in which his thought followed out the word of suggestion into a swift dream
of possible fulfillment, he said to his companion,--

"I believe there was nothing in that old Jewish economy, Vireo, that was not given as a 'pattern
of things' that should be. That whole Old Testament is a type and prophecy of the kingdom coming.
Only it was but the first Adam. It was given right into the very conditions that illustrated
its need. It would have meant nothing, given into a society of angels. Yet because men were
not angels, but very mortal and sinful men, we of to-day must fling contempt upon the Myth
of the Salvation of God! It will stand, for all that,--that history of God's intimacy with
men. It was lived, not told as a vision, that it might stand! It was lived, to show how near,
in spite of sin, God came, and stayed. The second coming shall be without sin unto salvation." For, as the queues were so very great, however, it is surprising, that they can hide under the
shield of the goddess, if this sign is not even was very large and belonged to a colossal figure.
And the insurance thereof had the consequent lack of his, or has no non sense}.

In the turns themselves, they led by what the poet, the snakes around the Laocoon, avoids He very
carefully the arms to let their hands all their effectiveness.

Ille simul manibus tendit divellere nodose.

Herein he had to follow the artists needed. Nothing is more expression and life, as the movement
of the hands, especially in the emotions, the most eloquent face insignificant without them.
Poor, was closed by the rings of snakes by the body, would freeze and death have spread over the
whole group.

So we see it, the main character, both as In addition to the figures, in total activity, and
since most beschaeftiget where presently the most severe pain.

But nothing further than that of the arms, the artists were beneficial
in Regard to the involvement of the snakes, to borrow from the poet.

Virgil the snakes twice around the waist, and double wind around the neck of the Laocoon, and with
their heads high protrude about him.

This image replenish our imagination excellent; the finest parts to suffocation pressed, and the poison
Go straight to the face. Demohngeachtet it was not a picture for Artists who wanted to show the effects
of the poison and pain in the body. Because these can be noted, had the main parts are as free
as possible, and certainly had no aeussrer pressure acting on them, which the game of the affected
nerve and working Change customer weaken muscles and might. The double
coils of the snake would whole body are covered, and those painful
recovery of the abdomen, which is so very expressions, would be still
invisible. "'He shall abide in it unto
the death of the high-priest,' and after that, 'the slayer shall return into the land of his
possession.' That might almost seem to point to the old sacrificial idea; the atonement by
death. I cannot rest in that. I wish I could see its whole meaning,--for meaning it must have,
and a meaning of life."

"A temporary ministry; a limited exile; the one the measure of the other," sail Hilary Vireo,
slowly thinking it out, and taking the book from the hand of his friend, to look over the words
themselves, as he did so.

"The glory is in the promise: 'he shall return into the land of his possession.' His life shall
be given back to him,--all that it was meant to be. It shall be kept open for him, till the
time of his banishment is over. Meanwhile, over even this period is a holy providing, an anointed
commission of grace."

"But hear this," he continued, turning to the Epistle to the Hebrews, "and put the suggestions
alongside. All but God's final and eternal best is transitional. Not a scrap of blessed possibility
forfeited, lost? All gathered up, restored, put into our hands again, from the redeeming hands
of Christ? Backward and forward, through all that was irretrievable to us; sought, and traced,
and found, and brought back with rejoicing; the whole house swept, until not one silver piece
is missing. That is the return into the land of our possession. That is God's salvation, and
his gospel! That is what shall come to pass. Not yet; not while we are only under the lesser
ministry; but when that priesthood over the time of our waiting ends, and we have believed
unto the full appearing of the Lord!"

The speaker's face flushed and glowed; Hilary Vireo, always glad and strong in look and bearing,
was grandly joyful when the power of the gospel he had to preach came upon him; the gospel
of a full, perfect, and unstinted hope.

"Is that what you tell your simple people?" asked Christopher Kirkbright, fixing deeply eager
eyes upon him.

"Yes; just that. In simplest words, changed and repeated often. It is the whole burden of my
message. What other message is there, to men's souls? 'Repent, and receive the remission of
your sins!' Build your city of refuge, Mr. Kirkbright, and show them a beginning of the fulfillment."

Whist and euchre tables not far off were breaking up, just before lunch, with laughter and
raised voices. Ladies were coming down from the deck. In the stir, Mr. Vireo rose and went
away. Christopher Kirkbright carried his Bible back into his state-room, and shut the door.

CHAPTER XII.

LETTERS AND LINKS.

That same September morning, Miss Euphrasia, sitting in her pretty corner room at Mrs. Georgeson's,--just
returned to her city life from the rest and sweetness of a country summer,--had letters brought
to her door.

The first was in a thin, strong, blue envelope, with London and Liverpool postmarks, and "per
Steamer Calabria," written up in the corner, business-wise, with the date, and a dash underneath. "Mother, Mother!
"He cried, but he did not return, he heard her down the stairs and went into his father's
room. Where is he in the morning his rocking horse to the brass stove knob was bound. Now it was
not him longer, he jumped through the corridor and rode like the Wind down the stairs railing.
When he entered the room, it was full of rose fragrance and it seemed him almost as his own mother
would be a rose, so was her bright face. Hinzelmeier was very thoughtful.
 We can't help beginning again,
      if not actually where we left off, at least with the thought
      we left off at, 'live and fresh in our hearts. The thought, I
      mean, as regards each other; we have both got some thoughts
      uppermost by this time, doubtless, that we had not lived to
      then. At any rate, I have, who had ten years ago only the
      notions and dreams of twenty-one. I come straight to you with
      them, just as I went from you, dear elder sister, with your
      love and blessing upon me, into the great, working world.

      "Send a line to meet me in New York at Frazer and
      Doubleday's, and let me know your exact whereabouts. I found
      Sherrett here, and had a run to Manchester with him to see
      Amy. That's the sort of thing I can't believe when I do see
      it,--Mary's baby married and housekeeping! I'm glad you are my
      elder, Effie; I shall not see much difference in you. This is the real aroma of bliss the atmosphere
of the children's heaven. The smell of happiness and brings it, it would appear now in the form
of sparkling diamonds and gilded walnuts. I hear it again in the walls trickle, as if a thousand
busy minds its being exaggerated, the door handle crack silent, without anyone enters the
room, and a rustle and whisper goes through the house, which you want to write not only shaken
the tinsel. A pure, gentle showing, in face
and voice and movement, of all that is lovely for a woman to show, and that she tells one of
God's own words by showing, if only it be true, and not a putting on of falseness?

If Miss Euphrasia had not cared what she would seem like in the eyes as well as to the heart
of this brother coming home, there would have been something wanting to her of genuine womanhood.
Yet she had gone daily about her Lord's business, thinking of that first; not stopping to watch
the graying or thinning of hairs, or the gathering of life-lines about eyes and mouth, or studying
how to replace or smooth or disguise anything. She let her life write itself; she only made
all fair, according to the sense of true grace that was in her; fair as she could with that
which remained. She had neither neglected, nor feverishly contrived and worried; and so at
forty three she was just what Christopher, with his Scotch second-sight, beheld her; what she
beheld herself now as she went to look at her face in the glass, and to guess what he would
think of it. As they stood an even opposite, even if they already long since run
away was when it was so long to catch anything! As they sat not, as they fell down, but rather looked
at one with eyes that still, if only from a distance, impressed! And resources were always
the same: They imagined us out so wide they could, sought to keep us from there where we wanted,
prepared Send us to replace a flat in her own breast, and finally reared Feeling in us, they took
it as a hug, in which they threw themselves, especially the face.

And those old jokes this time I had discovered after so long together. I rubbed my fingers at each
other to make the shame happened.

My husband, however, declined here as before, was still a con man,
and satisfaction with his lot he flushed the free cheek.

"Detected," I said, patting him slightly on the shoulder. Then I rushed up the stairs up and
the so groundless faithful servants of the faces above me in the
hall were delighted such a nice surprise.

I looked at them all in order, while my coat took off the boots and
dusting.

Sigh of relief and elongated I entered the room then.

The sudden walk

If one seems to have decided on the final evening, to stay at home, the House Rock has attracted,
is sitting after supper with lit tables, and those working or that Game has made after its
completion it is habitually sleep, when outside an unkind weather, which of course makes the
stay at home if you now has kept quiet for so long at the table that the departure of general
astonishment would cause, if now already the dark staircase and the front door is locked, and
if you now in spite of all of a sudden unease rises, the rock changes, immediately street moderately
attracted appear to have to go explain it after a short farewell does do, depending on the speed with
which one strikes the door, more or less Anger feels to leave when one finds oneself in the
street, with limbs that these have unexpected freedom that has given them to respond with particular
emotion when a decision by this all feels decisiveness collected when can be seen with more than
the usual meaning that you need more power than yes has to effect the rapid change and easy
to endure, and if you like the long Hinläuft streets - then it has withdrawn completely for this
evening from his family, abschwenkt into the nature of lots, while
keeping it, very strongly, black outline against nature, in the back
the leg striking rises to his true form.

Amplified are all yet if you visit at this late night time with a
friend, to see how he is.

Decisions

collect from a miserable state to be necessarily easy to intentional
energy.

I tear myself away from the rotating chair, the table, make the head and neck motion, to set
fire to the eye margin, the muscles around them. Work against any
sense of welcome, A. stormy if he will come now endure as friendly
in my room, pull in C. All that said is, in spite of pain and effort
into me with long strokes.

But even if things go is with each error,
which can not fail, the whole, the Light and the heavy stick and I'll
have to turn back in a circle.

      "Well, it seemed that Mr. Saftleigh had gone out West only six
      years ago, and had made all his money since, in land and
      railroad business. Mrs. Saftleigh said that 'whatever Farron
      touched was sure to double.' She meant money; but I thought
      of our perplexities when she said it, and he certainly has
      managed to double them. He went to New York two or three
      times while we were at the Springs; he was transacting
      railroad business; getting stock taken up in the new piece of
      road laid out from Latterend to Donnowhair; and he was at the
      head of a company that had bought up all the land along the
      route. 'Sure to sell at enormous profits any time after the
      railroad was opened.' Poor mother got so feverish about it!
      She didn't see why our little money shouldn't be doubled as
      well as other people's. And then she cried so about being left
      a widow, with nobody out in the world to get a share of
      anything for her; and Mrs. Saftleigh used to tell her that
      such work was just what friends were made for, and it was so
      providential that she had met her here just now; and she was
      always calling her 'sweet Mrs. Argenter.'

      "Nobody could help it; mother worried herself sick, when I
      begged her to wait till we could come home and consult some
      friend we knew. 'The chance would be lost forever,' she said;
      'and who could be kinder than the Saftleighs, or could know
      half so much? Mr. Farron Saftleigh risked his own money in
      it.' And at last, she wrote home and had her Dorbury mortgage
      sold, and paid eight thousand dollars of it to Mr. Saftleigh,
      for shares in the railroad, and land in Donnowhair. And, dear
      Miss Euphrasia, that is all we've got now, except just a few
      hundred dollars on deposit in the Continental, and the other
      four thousand of the mortgage, that mother put into
      Manufacturers' Insurance stock, to pacify me. If the land
      doesn't sell out there in six months, as Mr. Saftleigh says
      it will, I don't know where any more income for us is to come
      from.

      "I am saving all I can here, for the winter must cost. You
      would laugh if you knew how I am saving! I am helping Mrs.
      Jeffords do her work, and she doesn't charge me any board, and
      so I lay up the money without letting mother know it. I don't
      feel as if that were quite right,--or comfortable, at least;
      but after all, why shouldn't she be cheated a little bit the
      other way, if it is possible? That is why I hope we shall be
      here all through October.

      "We are having lovely weather now; not a sign of frost.
      Although this place is so far north, it is sheltered by great
      hills, and seems to lie under the lee, both ways, of high
      mountain ranges, so that the cold does not really set in very
      early. It is a curious place. I wish I had left room to tell
      you more about it. There is a great level basin, around which
      slope the uplands, rising farther and farther on every side
      except the south, until you get among the real mountain
      regions. On these slopes are the farms; the Jeffords', and the
      Applebees', and the Patchons', and the Stilphins'. Aren't they
      quaint, comfortable old country names? I think they only have
      such names among farmers. The name of the place,--or rather
      neighborhood, for I don't know where the place actually
      is--there are three places, and they are all four or five
      miles off--Mill Village, and Pemunk, and Sandon; the name of
      the neighborhood,--Brickfield Farms, comes from there having
      been brickmaking done here at one time; but it was given up.
      The man who owned it got in debt, and failed, I believe; and
      nobody has taken hold of it again, because it is so far from
      lines of transportation; but there are some cottages about the
      foot of Cone Hill, where the laborers used to live; and a big
      queer, old red brick house, that looks as if it were walking
      up stairs,--built on flat, natural steps of the rock, and so
      climbing up, room behind room, with steps inside to
      correspond. I have liked so much to go through it, and imagine
      stories about it, though all the story there is, is that of
      Mr. Flavius Josephus Browne, the man of the brick enterprise,
      who built it in this odd way, and probably imagined a story
      for himself that he never lived out in it, because his money
      and his business came to an end. How strange it is that work
      doesn't always make money, and that it takes so much
      combination to make anything worth while! I wonder that even
      men know just what to do. And as for women,--why, when they
      take to elbowing men out, what will it all come to? Gradually opens the cup; on and on until
one of the shimmering leaves and peels off from the kneeling fell down. But before it reached
the ground it vanished unnoticed into the air and make up the Room with rose-colored fog.
 But I will not
      trouble you any longer now; I am quite ashamed of the great
      packet this will make when it is folded up. But you told me to
      let you know all about myself, and I can't help minding such
      an injunction as that!

              "Yours gratefully and affectionately always,
                                         "SYLVIE ARGENTER."

