CHAPTER XVIII

THE SECRET

De Thou had reached home with his friend; his doors were carefully shut, and orders given to
admit no one, and to excuse him to the refugees for allowing them to depart without seeing
them again; and as yet the two friends had not spoken to each other.

The counsellor had thrown himself into his armchair in deep meditation. Cinq-Mars, leaning
against the lofty chimneypiece, awaited with a serious and sorrowful air the termination of
this silence.  At length De Thou, looking fixedly at him and crossing his arms, said in a hollow
and melancholy voice:

"This, then, is the goal you have reached!  These, the consequences of your ambition!  You
are are about to banish, perhaps slay, a man, and to bring then, a foreign army into France;
I am, then, to see you an assassin and a traitor to your country!  By what tortuous paths have
you arrived thus far?  By what stages have you descended so low?"

"Any other than yourself would not speak thus to me twice," said Cinq- Mars, coldly; "but I
know you, and I like this explanation.  I desired it, and sought it.  You shall see my entire
soul.  I had at first another thought, a better one perhaps, more worthy of our friendship,
more worthy of friendship--friendship, the second thing upon earth."

He raised his eyes to heaven as he spoke, as if he there sought the divinity.

"Yes, it would have been better.  I intended to have said nothing to you on the subject.  It
was a painful task to keep silence; but hitherto I have succeeded.  I wished to have conducted
the whole enterprise without you; to show you only the finished work.  I wished to keep you
beyond the circle of my danger; but shall I confess my weakness?  I feared to die, if I have
to die, misjudged by you.  I can well sustain the idea of the world's malediction, but not
of yours; but this has decided me upon avowing all to you."

"What!  and but for this thought, you would have had the courage to conceal yourself forever
from me?  Ah, dear Henri, what have I done that you should take this care of my life?  By what
fault have I deserved to survive you, if you die?  You have had the strength of mind to hoodwink
me for two whole years; you have never shown me aught of your life but its flowers; you have
never entered my solitude but with a joyous countenance, and each time with a fresh favor.
Ah, you must be very guilty or very virtuous!"

"Do not seek in my soul more than therein lies.  Yes, I have deceived you; and that fact was
the only peace and joy I had in the world. Forgive me for having stolen these moments from
my destiny, so brilliant, alas!  I was happy in the happiness you supposed me to enjoy; I made
you happy in that dream, and I am only guilty in that I am now about to destroy it, and to
show myself as I was and am.  Listen: I shall not detain you long; the story of an impassioned
heart is ever simple.  Once before, I remember, in my tent when I was wounded, my secret nearly
escaped me; it would have been happy, perhaps, had it done so.  Yet what would counsel have
availed me?  I should not have followed it.  In a word, 'tis Marie de Mantua whom I love."

"How! she who is to be Queen of Poland?"

"If she is ever queen, it can only be after my death.  But listen: for her I became a courtier;
for her I have almost reigned in France; for her I am about to fall--perhaps to die."

"Die!  fall!  when I have been reproaching your triumph!  when I have wept over the sadness
of your victory!"

"Ah!  you know me but ill, if you suppose that I shall be the dupe of Fortune, when she smiles
upon me; if you suppose that I have not pierced to the bottom of my destiny!  I struggle against
it, but 'tis the stronger I feel it.  I have undertaken a task beyond human power; and I shall
fail in it."

"Why, then, not stop?  What is the use of intellect in the business of the world?"

"None; unless, indeed, it be to tell us the cause of our fall, and to enable us to foresee
the day on which we shall fall.  I can not now recede.  When a man is confronted with such
an enemy as Richelieu, he must overcome him or be crushed by him.  Tomorrow I shall strike
the last blow; did I not just now, in your presence, engage to do so?"

"And it is that very engagement that I would oppose.  What confidence have you in those to
whom you thus abandon your life?  Have you not read their secret thoughts?"

"I know them all; I have read their hopes through their feigned rage; I know that they tremble
while they threaten.  I know that even now they are ready to make their peace by giving me
up; but it is my part to sustain them and to decide the King.  I must do it, for Marie is my
betrothed, and my death is written at Narbonne.  It is voluntarily, it is with full knowledge
of my fate, that I have thus placed myself between the block and supreme happiness.  That happiness
I must tear from the hands of Fortune, or die on that scaffold.  At this instant I experience
the joy of having broken down all doubt.  What! blush you not at having thought me ambitious
from a base egoism, like this Cardinal--ambitious from a puerile desire for a power which is
never satisfied?  I am ambitious, but it is because I love.  Yes, I love; in that word all
is comprised.  But I accuse you unjustly.  You have embellished my secret intentions; you have
imparted to me noble designs (I remember them), high political conceptions.  They are brilliant,
they are grand, doubtless; but--shall I say it to you?--such vague projects for the perfecting
of corrupt societies seem to me to crawl far below the devotion of love. When the whole soul
vibrates with that one thought, it has no room for the nice calculation of general interests;
the topmost heights of earth are far beneath heaven."

De Thou shook his head.

"What can I answer?"  he said.  "I do not understand you; your reasoning unreasons you.  You
hunt a shadow."

"Nay," continued Cinq-Mars; "far from destroying my strength, this inward fire has developed
it.  I have calculated everything.  Slow steps have led me to the end which I am about to attain.
Marie drew me by the hand; could I retreat?  I would not have done it though a world faced
me. Hitherto, all has gone well; but an invisible barrier arrests me.  This barrier must be
broken; it is Richelieu.  But now in your presence I undertook to do this; but perhaps I was
too hasty.  I now think I was so. Let him rejoice; he expected me.  Doubtless he foresaw that
it would be the youngest whose patience would first fail.  If he played on this calculation,
he played well.  Yet but for the love that has urged me on, I should have been stronger than
he, and by just means."

Then a sudden change came over the face of Cinq-Mars.  He turned pale and red twice; and the
veins of his forehead rose like blue lines drawn by an invisible hand.

"Yes," he added, rising, and clasping together his hands with a force which indicated the violent
despair concentred in his heart, "all the torments with which love can tear its victims I have
felt in my breast. This timid girl, for whom I would shake empires, for whom I have suffered
all, even the favor of a prince, who perhaps has not felt all I have done for her, can not
yet be mine.  She is mine before God, yet I am estranged from her; nay, I must hear daily discussed
before me which of the thrones of Europe will best suit her, in conversations wherein I may
not even raise my voice to give an opinion, and in which they scorn as mate for her princes
of the blood royal, who yet have precedence far before me. I must conceal myself like a culprit
to hear through a grating the voice of her who is my wife; in public I must bow before her--her
husband, yet her servant!  'Tis too much; I can not live thus.  I must take the last step,
whether it elevate me or hurl me down."

"And for your personal happiness you would overthrow a State?"

"The happiness of the State is one with mine.  I secure that undoubtedly in destroying the
tyrant of the King.  The horror with which this man inspires me has passed into my very blood.
When I was first on my way to him, I encountered in my journey his greatest crime.  He is the
genius of evil for the unhappy King!  I will exorcise him.  I might have become the genius
of good for Louis XIII.  It was one of the thoughts of Marie, her most cherished thought. 
But I do not think I shall triumph in the uneasy soul of the Prince."

"Upon what do you rely, then?"  said De Thou.

"Upon the cast of a die.  If his will can but once last for a few hours, I have gained.  'Tis
a last calculation on which my destiny hangs."

"And that of your Marie!"

"Could you suppose it?"  said Cinq-Mars, impetuously.  "No, no!  If he abandons me, I sign
the treaty with Spain, and then-war!"

"Ah, horror!"  exclaimed the counsellor.  "What, a war!  a civil war, and a foreign alliance!"

"Ay, 'tis a crime," said Cinq-Mars, coldly; "but have I asked you to participate in it?"

"Cruel, ungrateful man!"  replied his friend; "can you speak to me thus? Know you not, have
I not proved to you, that friendship holds the place of every passion in my heart?  Can I survive
the least of your misfortunes, far less your death.  Still, let me influence you not to strike
France.  Oh, my friend!  my only friend!  I implore you on my knees, let us not thus be parricides;
let us not assassinate our country! I say us, because I will never separate myself from your
actions. Preserve to me my self-esteem, for which I have labored so long; sully not my life
and my death, which are both yours."

De Thou had fallen at the feet of his friend, who, unable to preserve his affected coldness,
threw himself into his arms, as he raised him, and, pressing him to his heart, said in a stifled
voice:

"Why love me thus?  What have you done, friend?  Why love me?  You who are wise, pure, and
virtuous; you who are not led away by an insensate passion and the desire for vengeance; you
whose soul is nourished only by religion and science--why love me?  What has my friendship
given you but anxiety and pain?  Must it now heap dangers on you?  Separate yourself from me;
we are no longer of the same nature.  You see courts have corrupted me.  I have no longer openness,
no longer goodness.  I meditate the ruin of a man; I can deceive a friend.  Forget me, scorn
me.  I am not worthy of one of your thoughts; how should I be worthy of your perils?"

"By swearing to me not to betray the King and France," answered De Thou. "Know you that the
preservation of your country is at stake; that if you yield to Spain our fortifications, she
will never return them to us; that your name will be a byword with posterity; that French mothers
will curse it when they shall be forced to teach their children a foreign language-- know you
all this?  Come."

And he drew him toward the bust of Louis XIII.

"Swear before him (he is your friend also), swear never to sign this infamous treaty."

Cinq-Mars lowered his eyes, but with dogged tenacity answered, although blushing as he did so:

"I have said it; if they force me to it, I will sign."

De Thou turned pale, and let fall his hand.  He took two turns in his room, his arms crossed,
in inexpressible anguish.  At last he advanced solemnly toward the bust of his father, and
opened a large book standing at its foot; he turned to a page already marked, and read aloud:

"I think, therefore, that M. de Ligneboeuf was justly condemned to death by the Parliament
of Rouen, for not having revealed the conspiracy of Catteville against the State."

Then keeping the book respectfully opened in his hand, and contemplating the image of the President
de Thou, whose Memoirs he held, he continued:

"Yes, my father, you thought well....  I shall be a criminal, I shall merit death; but can
I do otherwise?  I will not denounce this traitor, because that also would be treason; and
he is my friend, and he is unhappy."

Then, advancing toward Cinq-Mars, and again taking his hand, he said:

"I do much for you in acting thus; but expect nothing further from me, Monsieur, if you sign
this treaty."

Cinq-Mars was moved to the heart's core by this scene, for he felt all that his friend must
suffer in casting him off.  Checking, however, the tears which were rising to his smarting
lids, and embracing De Thou tenderly, he exclaimed:

"Ah, De Thou, I find you still perfect.  Yes, you do me a service in alienating yourself from
me, for if your lot had been linked to mine, I should not have dared to dispose of my life.
I should have hesitated to sacrifice it in case of need; but now I shall assuredly do so. 
And I repeat to you, if they force me, I shall sign the treaty with Spain."

CHAPTER XIX

THE HUNTING PARTY

Meanwhile the illness of Louis XIII threw France into the apprehension which unsettled States
ever feel on the approach of the death of princes. Although Richelieu was the hub of the monarchy,
he reigned only in the name of Louis, though enveloped with the splendor of the name which
he had assumed.  Absolute as he was over his master, Richelieu still feared him; and this fear
reassured the nation against his ambitious desires, to which the King himself was the fixed
barrier.  But this prince dead, what would the imperious minister do?  Where would a man stop
who had already dared so much? Accustomed to wield the sceptre, who would prevent him from
still holding it, and from subscribing his name alone to laws which he alone would dictate?
These fears agitated all minds.  The people in vain looked throughout the kingdom for those
pillars of the nobility, at the feet of whom they had been wont to find shelter in political
storms.  They now only saw their recent tombs.  Parliament was dumb; and men felt that nothing
could be opposed to the monstrous growth of the Cardinal's usurping power.  No one was entirely
deceived by the affected sufferings of the minister.  None was touched with that feigned agony
which had too often deceived the public hope; and distance nowhere prevented the weight of
the dreaded 'parvenu' from being felt.

The love of the people soon revived toward the son of Henri IV.  They hastened to the churches;
they prayed, and even wept.  Unfortunate princes are always loved.  The melancholy of Louis,
and his mysterious sorrow interested all France; still living, they already regretted him,
as if each man desired to be the depositary of his troubles ere he carried away with him the
grand mystery of what is suffered by men placed so high that they can see nothing before them
but their tomb.

The King, wishing to reassure the whole nation, announced the temporary reestablishment of
his health, and ordered the court to prepare for a grand hunting party to be given at Chambord--a
royal domain, whither his brother, the Duc d'Orleans, prayed him to return.

This beautiful abode was the favorite retreat of Louis, doubtless because, in harmony with
his feelings, it combined grandeur with sadness. He often passed whole months there, without
seeing any one whatsoever, incessantly reading and re-reading mysterious papers, writing unknown
documents, which he locked up in an iron coffer, of which he alone had the key.  He sometimes
delighted in being served by a single domestic, and thus so to forget himself by the absence
of his suite as to live for many days together like a poor man or an exiled citizen, loving
to figure to himself misery or persecution, in order the better to enjoy royalty afterward.
Another time he would be in a more entire solitude; and having forbidden any human creature
to approach him, clothed in the habit of a monk, he would shut himself up in the vaulted chapel.
There, reading the life of Charles V, he would imagine himself at St. Just, and chant over
himself that mass for the dead which brought death upon the head of the Spanish monarch.

But in the midst of these very chants and meditations his feeble mind was pursued and distracted
by contrary images.  Never did life and the world appear to him more fair than in such times
of solitude among the tombs. Between his eyes and the page which he endeavored to read passed
brilliant processions, victorious armies, or nations transported with love.  He saw himself
powerful, combating, triumphant, adored; and if a ray of the sun through the large windows
fell upon him, suddenly rising from the foot of the altar, he felt himself carried away by
a thirst for daylight and the open air, which led him from his gloomy retreat.  But returned
to real life, he found there once more disgust and ennui, for the first men he met recalled
his power to his recollection by their homage.

It was then that he believed in friendship, and summoned it to his side; but scarcely was he
certain of its possession than unconquerable scruples suddenly seized upon his soul-scruples
concerning a too powerful attachment to the creature, turning him from the Creator, and frequently
inward reproaches for removing himself too much from the affairs of the State.  The object
of his momentary affection then seemed to him a despotic being, whose power drew him from his
duties; but, unfortunately for his favorites, he had not the strength of mind outwardly to
manifest toward them the resentment he felt, and thus to warn them of their danger, but, continuing
to caress them, he added by this constraint fuel to the secret fire of his heart, and was impelled
to an absolute hatred of them.  There were moments when he was capable of taking any measures
against them.

Cinq-Mars knew perfectly the weakness of that mind, which could not keep firmly in any path,
and the weakness of a heart which could neither wholly love nor wholly hate.  Thus, the position
of favorite, the envy of all France, the object of jealousy even on the part of the great minister,
was so precarious and so painful that, but for his love, he would have burst his golden chains
with greater joy than a galley-slave feels when he sees the last ring that for two long years
he has been filing with a steel spring concealed in his mouth, fall to the earth. This impatience
to meet the fate he saw so near hastened the explosion of that patiently prepared mine, as
he had declared to his friend; but his situation was that of a man who, placed by the side
of the book of life, should see hovering over it the hand which is to indite his damnation
or his salvation.  He set out with Louis to Chambord, resolved to take the first opportunity
favorable to his design.  It soon presented itself.

The very morning of the day appointed for the chase, the King sent word to him that he was
waiting for him on the Escalier du Lys.  It may not, perhaps, be out of place to speak of this
astonishing construction.

Four leagues from Blois, and one league from the Loire, in a small and deep valley, between
marshy swamps and a forest of large holm-oaks, far from any highroad, the traveller suddenly
comes upon a royal, nay, a magic castle.  It might be said that, compelled by some wonderful
lamp, a genie of the East had carried it off during one of the "thousand and one nights," and
had brought it from the country of the sun to hide it in the land of fogs and mist, for the
dwelling of the mistress of a handsome prince.

Hidden like a treasure; with its blue domes, its elegant minarets rising from thick walls or
shooting into the air, its long terraces overlooking the wood, its light spires bending with
the wind, its terraces everywhere rising over its colonnades, one might there imagine one's
self in the kingdom of Bagdad or of Cashmir, did not the blackened walls, with their covering
of moss and ivy, and the pallid and melancholy hue of the sky, denote a rainy climate.  It
was indeed a genius who raised this building; but he came from Italy, and his name was Primaticcio.
It was indeed a handsome prince whose amours were concealed in it; but he was a king, and he
bore the name of Francois I.  His salamander still spouts fire everywhere about it.  It sparkles
in a thousand places on the arched roofs, and multiplies the flames there like the stars of
heaven; it supports the capitals with burning crowns; it colors the windows with its fires;
it meanders up and down the secret staircases, and everywhere seems to devour with its flaming
glances the triple crescent of a mysterious Diane--that Diane de Poitiers, twice a goddess
and twice adored in these voluptuous woods.

The base of this strange monument is like the monument itself, full of elegance and mystery;
there is a double staircase, which rises in two interwoven spirals from the most remote foundations
of the edifice up to the highest points, and ends in a lantern or small lattice-work cabinet,
surmounted by a colossal fleur-de-lys, visible from a great distance. Two men may ascend it
at the same moment, without seeing each other.

This staircase alone seems like a little isolated temple.  Like our churches, it is sustained
and protected by the arcades of its thin, light, transparent, openwork wings.  One would think
the docile stone had given itself to the finger of the architect; it seems, so to speak, kneaded
according to the slightest caprice of his imagination.  One can hardly conceive how the plans
were traced, in what terms the orders were explained to the workmen.  The whole thing appears
a transient thought, a brilliant revery that at once assumed a durable form---the realization
of a dream.

Cinq-Mars was slowly ascending the broad stairs which led him to the King's presence, and stopping
longer at each step, in proportion as he approached him, either from disgust at the idea of
seeing the Prince whose daily complaints he had to hear, or thinking of what he was about to
do, when the sound of a guitar struck his ear.  He recognized the beloved instrument of Louis
and his sad, feeble, and trembling voice faintly reechoing from the vaulted ceiling.  Louis
seemed trying one of those romances which he was wont to compose, and several times repeated
an incomplete strain with a trembling hand.  The words could scarcely be distinguished; all
that Cinq-Mars heard were a few such as 'Abandon, ennui de monde, et belle flamme.

The young favorite shrugged his shoulders as he listened.

"What new chagrin moves thee?"  he said.  "Come, let me again attempt to read that chilled
heart which thinks it needs something."

He entered the narrow cabinet.

Clothed in black, half reclining on a couch, his elbows resting upon pillows, the Prince was
languidly touching the chords of his guitar; he ceased this when he saw the grand ecuyer enter,
and, raising his large eyes to him with an air of reproach, swayed his head to and fro for
a long time without speaking.  Then in a plaintive but emphatic tone, he said:

"What do I hear, Cinq-Mars?  What do I hear of your conduct?  How much you do pain me by forgetting
all my counsels!  You have formed a guilty intrigue; was it from you I was to expect such things--you
whom I so loved for your piety and virtue?"

Full of his political projects, Cinq-Mars thought himself discovered, and could not help a
momentary anxiety; but, perfectly master of himself, he answered without hesitation:

"Yes, Sire; and I was about to declare it to you, for I am accustomed to open my soul to you."

"Declare it to me!"  exclaimed the King, turning red and white, as under the shivering of a
fever; "and you dare to contaminate my ears with these horrible avowals, Monsieur, and to speak
so calmly of your disorder!  Go! you deserve to be condemned to the galley, like Rondin; it
is a crime of high treason you have committed in your want of faith toward me.  I had rather
you were a coiner, like the Marquis de Coucy, or at the head of the Croquants, than do as you
have done; you dishonor your family, and the memory of the marechal your father."

Cinq-Mars, deeming himself wholly lost, put the best face he could upon the matter, and said
with an air of resignation:

"Well, then, Sire, send me to be judged and put to death; but spare me your reproaches."

"Do you insult me, you petty country-squire?"  answered Louis.  "I know very well that you
have not incurred the penalty of death in the eyes of men; but it is at the tribunal of God,
Monsieur, that you will be judged."

"Heavens, Sire!"  replied the impetuous young man, whom the insulting phrase of the King had
offended, "why do you not allow me to return to the province you so much despise, as I have
sought to do a hundred times? I will go there.  I can not support the life I lead with you;
an angel could not bear it.  Once more, let me be judged if I am guilty, or allow me to return
to Touraine.  It is you who have ruined me in attaching me to your person.  If you have caused
me to conceive lofty hopes, which you afterward overthrew, is that my fault?  Wherefore have
you made me grand ecuyer, if I was not to rise higher?  In a word, am I your friend or not?
and, if I am, why may I not be duke, peer, or even constable, as well as Monsieur de Luynes,
whom you loved so much because he trained falcons for you?  Why am I not admitted to the council?
I could speak as well as any of the old ruffs there; I have new ideas, and a better arm to
serve you. It is your Cardinal who has prevented you from summoning me there.  And it is because
he keeps you from me that I detest him," continued Cinq- Mars, clinching his fist, as if Richelieu
stood before him; "yes, I would kill him with my own hand, if need were."

D'Effiat's eyes were inflamed with anger; he stamped his foot as he spoke, and turned his back
to the King, like a sulky child, leaning against one of the columns of the cupola.

Louis, who recoiled before all resolution, and who was always terrified by the irreparable,
took his hand.

O weakness of power!  O caprices of the human heart!  it was by this childish impetuosity,
these very defects of his age, that this young man governed the King of France as effectually
as did the first politician of the time.  This Prince believed, and with some show of reason,
that a character so hasty must be sincere; and even his fiery rage did not anger him.  It did
not apply to the real subject of his reproaches, and he could well pardon him for hating the
Cardinal.  The very idea of his favorite's jealousy of the minister pleased him, because it
indicated attachment; and all he dreaded was his indifference.  Cinq-Mars knew this, and had
desired to make it a means of escape, preparing the King to regard all that he had done as
child's play, as the consequence of his friendship for him; but the danger was not so great,
and he breathed freely when the Prince said to him:

"The Cardinal is not in question here.  I love him no more than you do; but it is with your
scandalous conduct I reproach you, and which I shall have much difficulty to pardon in you.
What, Monsieur!  I learn that instead of devoting yourself to the pious exercises to which
I have accustomed you, when I fancy you are at your Salut or your Angelus--you are off from
Saint Germain, and go to pass a portion of the night--with whom?  Dare I speak of it without
sin?  With a woman lost in reputation, who can have no relations with you but such as are pernicious
to the safety of your soul, and who receives free-thinkers at her house--in a word, Marion
de Lorme.  What have you to say?  Speak."

Leaving his hand in that of the King, but still leaning against the column, Cinq-Mars answered:

"Is it then so culpable to leave grave occupations for others more serious still?  If I go
to the house of Marion de Lorme, it is to hear the conversation of the learned men who assemble
there.  Nothing is more harmless than these meetings.  Readings are given there which, it is
true, sometimes extend far into the night, but which commonly tend to exalt the soul, so far
from corrupting it.  Besides, you have never commanded me to account to you for all that I
do; I should have informed you of this long ago if you had desired it."

"Ah, Cinq-Mars, Cinq-Mars! where is your confidence?  Do you feel no need of it?  It is the
first condition of a perfect friendship, such as ours ought to be, such as my heart requires."

The voice of Louis became more affectionate, and the favorite, looking at him over his shoulder,
assumed an air less angry, but still simply ennuye, and resigned to listening to him.

"How often have you deceived me!"  continued the King; "can I trust myself to you?  Are they
not fops and gallants whom you meet at the house of this woman?  Do not courtesans go there?"

"Heavens!  no, Sire; I often go there with one of my friends--a gentleman of Touraine, named
Rene Descartes."

"Descartes!  I know that name!  Yes, he is an officer who distinguished himself at the siege
of Rochelle, and who dabbles in writing; he has a good reputation for piety, but he is connected
with Desbarreaux, who is a free-thinker.  I am sure that you must mix with many persons who
are not fit company for you, many young men without family, without birth.  Come, tell me whom
saw you last there?"

"Truly, I can scarcely remember their names," said Cinq-Mars, looking at the ceiling; "sometimes
I do not even ask them.  There was, in the first place, a certain Monsieur--Monsieur Groot,
or Grotius, a Hollander."

"I know him, a friend of Barnevelt; I pay him a pension.  I liked him well enough; but the
Card--but I was told that he was a high Calvinist."

"I also saw an Englishman, named John Milton; he is a young man just come from Italy, and is
returning to London.  He scarcely speaks at all."

"I don't know him--not at all; but I'm sure he's some other Calvinist. And the Frenchmen, who
were they?"

"The young man who wrote Cinna, and who has been thrice rejected at the Academie Francaise;
he was angry that Du Royer occupied his place there. He is called Corneille."

"Well," said the King, folding his arms, and looking at him with an air of triumph and reproach,
"I ask you who are these people?  Is it in such a circle that you ought to be seen?"

Cinq-Mars was confounded at this observation, which hurt his self-pride, and, approaching the
King, he said:

"You are right, Sire; but there can be no harm in passing an hour or two in listening to good
conversation.  Besides, many courtiers go there, such as the Duc de Bouillon, Monsieur d'Aubijoux,
the Comte de Brion, the Cardinal de la Vallette, Messieurs de Montresor, Fontrailles; men illustrious
in the sciences, as Mairet, Colletet, Desmarets, author of Araine; Faret, Doujat, Charpentier,
who wrote the Cyropedie; Giry, Besons, and Baro, the continuer of Astree--all academicians."

"Ah! now, indeed, here are men of real merit," said Louis; "there is nothing to be said against
them.  One can not but gain from their society.  Theirs are settled reputations; they're men
of weight.  Come, let us make up; shake hands, child.  I permit you to go there sometimes,
but do not deceive me any more; you see I know all.  Look at this."

