Softly out of the balmy night--for it was balmy and balsamic (we were to the windward of the
cannery),--a shadowy canoe floated up just under our rail; two shadowy forms materialized,
and voices like the voices of spirits--almost the softest voices in the world, voices of infantile
sweetness--hailed us. "Alah, mika chahko!" babbled the flowers of the forest. My solitary companion
responded glibly, for he was no stranger in these parts. The maids grew garrulous. There was
much bantering, and such laughter as the gods delight in; and at last a shout that drew the
attention of the captain. He joined us just in season to recognize the occupants of the canoe,
as they shot through a stream of light under an open port, crying "Anah nawitka mika halo shem!"
And then we learned that the sea-nymphs he had put to flight were none other than the belles
of Juneau City, the Alaskan metropolis, who were spending the summer at this watering-place,
and who were known to fame as "Kitty the Gopher," and "Feather-Legged Sal."

CHAPTER XI.

In the Sea of Ice.

We appreciated the sun's warmth so long as we were cruising among the ice-wrack. Some of the
passengers, having been forewarned, were provided with heavy overcoats, oilskin hats, waterproofs,
woolen socks, and stogies with great nails driven into the soles. They were iron-bound, copper-fastened
tourists, thoroughly equipped--Alpine-stock and all,--and equal to any emergency.

Certainly it rains whenever it feels like it in Alaska. It can rain heavily for days together,
and does so from time to time. The excursion-boat may run out of one predicament into another,
and the whole voyage be a series of dismal disappointments; but this is not to be feared. The
chances are in favor of a round of sunshiny days and cloudless nights as bright as the winter
days in New England; of the fairest of fair weather; bracing breezes tempered by the fragrant
forests that mantle each of the ten thousand islands; cool nights in midsummer, when a blanket
is welcome in one's bunk; a touch of a fog now and again, generally lasting but a few hours,
and welcome, also, by way of change. As for myself, a rubber coat protected me in the few showers
to which we were exposed, and afforded warmth enough in the coldest weather we encountered.
For a climb over a glacier, the very thickest shoes are absolutely necessary; beyond these,
all else seems superfluous to me, and the superfluous is the chief burden of travel.

We were gathered about the deck in little groups. The unpremeditated coteries which naturally
spring into existence on shipboard hailed one another across decks, from the captain's cabin--a
favorite resort--or the smoking-room, as we sighted objects of interest. With us there was
no antagonism, albeit we numbered a full hundred, and for three weeks were confined to pretty
close quarters. Passing the hours thus, and felicitating ourselves upon the complete success
of the voyage, we were in the happiest humor, and amiably awaited our next experience.

Presently we ran under a wooded height that shut off the base of a great snow-capped mountain.
The peak was celestial in its beauty,--a wraith dimly outlined upon the diaphanous sky, of
which it seemed a more palpable part. When we had rounded this point we came face to face with
a glacier. We saw at a glance the length and the breadth of it as it plowed slowly down between
lofty rock-ridges to within a mile and a half of the shore. This was our first sight of one
of those omnipotent architects of nature, and we watched it with a thrill of awe.

Picture to yourself a vast river, two or three miles in breadth, pouring down from the eminence
of an icy peak thirty miles away,--a river fed by numerous lateral tributaries that flow in
from every declivity. Imagine this river lashed to a fury and covered from end to end, fathoms
deep, with foam, and then the whole suddenly frozen and fixed for evermore--that is your glacier.
Sometimes the surface is stained with the débris of the mountain; sometimes the bluish-green
tinge of the ancient ice crops out. Generally the surface is as white as down and very fair
to look upon; for at a distance--we were about eight miles from the lower edge of it--the eye
detects no flaw. It might be a torrent of milk and honey. It might almost be compared in its
immaculate beauty to one of the rivers of Paradise that flow hard by the throne of God. It
seems to be moving in majesty, and yet is stationary, or nearly so; for we might sit by its
frozen shore and grow gray with watching, and ever our dull eyes could detect no change in
a ripple of it. A river of Paradise, indeed, escaped from the gardens of the blessed; but,
overcome by the squalor of this little globe, it has stopped short and turned to ice in its
alabaster bed.

One evening, about 8.30 o'clock, the sun still high above the western mountain range, we found
ourselves opposite the Davidson glacier. It passes out of a broad ravine and spreads fanlike
upon the shore under the neighboring cliffs. It is three miles in breadth along the front,
and is twelve hundred feet in height when it begins to crumble and slope toward the shore.
A terminal moraine, a mile and a half in depth, separates it from the sea. A forest, or the
remnant of a forest, stands between it and the water it is slowly but surely approaching. The
fate of this solemn wood is sealed. Anon the mightiest among these mighty trees will fall like
grain before the sickle of the reaper.

We are very near this glacier. We see all the wrinkles and fissures and the deep discolorations.
We see how the monstrous mass winds in and out between the mountains, and crowds them on every
side, and rubs their skin off in spots, and leaves grooved lines, like high-water marks, along
the face of the cliffs; how it gathers as it goes, and grinds to powder and to paste whatever
comes within its reach, growing worse and worse, and greedier and more rapacious as it creeps
down into the lowlands; so that when it reaches the sea, where it must end its course and dissolve
away, it will have covered itself with slime and confusion. It will have left ruin and desolation
in its track, but it will likewise have cleft out a valley with walls polished like brass and
a floor as smooth as marble,--one that will be utilized in after ages, when it has carpeted
itself with green and tapestried its walls with vines. Surely no other power on earth could
have done the job so neatly.

One sees this work in process and in fresh completion in Alaska. The bald islet yonder, with
a surface as smooth as glass and with delicate tracery along its polished sides--tracery that
looks like etching upon glass,--was modelled by glaciers not so many years ago: within the
century, some of them, perhaps. A glacier--probably the very glacier we are seeking--follows
this track and grinds them all into shape. Every angle of action--of motion, shall I say?--is
indelibly impressed upon each and every rock here about; so all these northlands, from sea
to sea, the world over, have been laboriously licked into shape by the irresistible tide of
ice. Verily, the mills of the gods grind slowly, but what a grist they grind!

Let me record an episode that occasioned no little excitement among the passengers and crew
of the Ancon. While we were picking our way among the floating ice--and at a pretty good jog,
too,--a dark body was seen to fall from an open port, forward, into the sea. There was a splash
and a shriek as it passed directly under the wheel and disappeared in the foam astern. "Man
overboard!" was the cry that rang through the ship, while we all rushed breathlessly to the
after-rail. Among the seething waters in our wake, we saw a head appearing and disappearing,
and growing smaller and smaller all the while, though the swimmer was struggling bravely to
hold his own. In a moment the engines were stopped; and then--an after-thought--we made as
sharp a turn as possible, hoping to lessen the distance between us, while a boat was being
manned and lowered for the rescue. We feared that it was the cook, who was running a fair chance
of being drowned or chilled to death. His black head bobbed like a burnt cork on the crest
of the waves; and, though we marked a snow-white circle in the sea, we seemed to get no nearer
the strong swimmer in his agony; and all at once we saw him turn, as in desperation or despair,
and make for one of the little rocky islets that were lying at no great distance. Evidently
he believed himself deserted, and was about to seek this desolate rock in the hope of prolonging
existence.

By this time we had come to a dead halt, and a prolonged silence followed. Our sailor boys
pulled lustily at the oars; yet the little boat seemed to crawl through yawning waves, and,
as usual, every moment was an hour of terrible suspense. Then the captain, the most anxious
among us all, made a trumpet of his hands and shouted: "Here, Pete, old boy! Here, Pete, you
black rascal!" At the sound of his voice the swimmer suddenly turned and struck out for the
ship with an enthusiasm that was actually ludicrous. We roared with laughter--we could not
help it; for when the boat had pulled up to the almost water-logged swimmer, and he began to
climb in with an energy that imperiled the safety of the crew, we saw that the black rascal
in question was none other than Pete Bruin, Captain Carroll's pet bear. He shook himself and
drenched the oarsmen, who were trying to get him back to the ship; for he was half frantic
with delight, and it was pretty close quarters--a small boat in a chop sea dotted with lumpy
ice; and a frantic bear puffing and blowing as he shambled bear-fashion from the stem to stern,
and raised his voice at intervals in a kind of hoarse "hooray," that depressed rather than
cheered his companions. It was ticklish business getting the boat and its lively crew back
to the davits in safety.

It was still more ticklish receiving the shaggy hero on deck; for he gave one wild bound and
alighted in the midst of a group of terrified ladies and scattered the rest of us in dismay.
But it was side-splitting when the little fellow, seeing an open door, made a sudden break
for it, and plunged into the berth of a shy damsel, who, put to ignominious flight in the first
gust of the panic, had sought safety in her state-room only to be singled out for the recipient
of the rascal's special attentions. She was rescued by the bravest of the brave; but Bruin
had to be dragged from behind the lace curtains with a lasso, and then he brought some shreds
of lace with him as a trophy. He was more popular than ever after this little adventure, and
many an hour we spent in recounting to one another the varied emotions awakened by the episode.

Heading for Glacier Bay, we found a flood of bitter cold water so filled with floating ice
that it was quite impossible to avoid frequent collisions with masses of more or less magnitude.
There was an almost continual thumping along the ship's side as the paddle struck heavily the
ice fragments which we found littering the frozen sea. There was also a dull reverberation
as of distant thunder that rolled over the sea to us; and when we learned that this was the
crackling of the ice-pack in the gorges, we thought with increasing solemnity of the majesty
of the spectacle we were about to witness.

Thus we pushed forward bravely toward an ice-wall that stretched across the top of the bay
from one high shore to the other. This wall of ice, a precipitous bluff or palisade, is computed
to be from two hundred to five hundred feet in height. It is certainly nowhere less than two
hundred, but most of it far nearer five hundred feet above sea level, rising directly out of
it, overhanging it, and chilling the air perceptibly. Picking our path to within a safe distance
of the glacier, we cast anchor and were free to go our ways for a whole glorious day. According
to Professor John Muir--for whom the glacier is deservedly named,--the ice-wall measures three
miles across the front; ten miles farther back it is ten miles in breadth. Sixteen tributary
glaciers unite to form the one.

Professor Muir, accompanied by the Rev. S. Hall Young, of Fort Wrangell, visited it in 1879.
They were the first white men to explore this region, and they went thither by canoe. Muir,
with blankets strapped to his back and his pockets stuffed with hard-tack, spent days in rapturous
speculation. Of all glacial theorists he is doubtless the most self-sacrificing and enthusiastic.
I believe, as yet, no one has timed this glacier. It is dissolving away more rapidly than it
travels; so that although it is always advancing, it seems in reality to be retreating.

Within the memory of the last three generations the Muir glacier filled the bay for miles below
our anchorage; and while it recedes, it is creeping slowly down, scalping the mountains, grinding
all the sharp edges into powder or leaving a polished surface behind it. It gathers rock dust
and the wreck of every living thing, and mixes them up with snow and ice. These congeal again,
or are compressed into soft, filthy monumental masses, waiting their turn to topple into the
waves at last. The wash of the sea undermines the glacier; the sharp sunbeams blast it. It
is forever sinking, settling, crushing in upon itself and splitting from end to end, with fearful
and prolonged intestinal reverberations, that remind one of battle thunders and murder and
sudden death. There was hardly a moment during the day free from rumble or a crash or a splash.

The front elevation might almost be compared to Niagara Falls in winter; but here is a spectacular
effect not often visible at Niagara. At intervals huge fragments of the ice cliffs fall, carrying
with them torrents of snow and slush. Heaven only knows know many hundred thousand tons of
this débris plunged into the sea under our very eyes. Nor was it all débris: there were masses
of solid ice so lustrous they looked like gigantic emeralds or sapphires, and these were fifty
or even a hundred times the size of our ship. When they fell they seemed to descend with the
utmost deliberation; for they fell a much greater distance than we could realize, as their
bulk was beyond conception, so that a fall of two hundred or three hundred feet seemed not
a tenth part of that distance.

With this deliberate descent, as if they floated down, they also gave an impression of vast
weight and when they struck the sea, the foam flew two-thirds of the way up the cliff--a fountain
three hundred feet in height and of monstrous volume. Then after a long time--a very long time
it seemed to us--the ice would rise slowly from the deep and climb the face of the cliff as
if it were about to take its old place again; but it sank and rose, until it had found its
level, when it joined the long procession drifting southward to warmer waves and dissolution.

In the meantime the ground swell that followed each submersion resembled a tidal wave as it
rolled down upon us and threatened to engulf us. But the Ancon rode like a duck--I can not
consistently say swan in this case,--and heaved to starboard and to larboard in picturesque
and thoroughly nautical fashion. Some of us were on shore, wading in the mud and the slush,
or climbing the steep bluffs that hem in the glacier upon one side. Here it was convenient
to glance over the wide, wide snow-fields that seem to have been broken with colossal harrows.
It was even possible to venture out upon the ice ridges, leaping the gaps that divided them
in every direction. But at any moment the crust might have broken and buried us from sight;
and we found the spectacle far more enjoyable when viewed from the deck of the steamer.

What is that glacier like? Well, just a little like the whitewashed crater of an active volcano.
At any rate, it is the glorious companion piece to Kilauea in Hawaii. In these wonders of nature
you behold the extremes, fire and ice, having it all their own way, and a world of adamant
shall not prevail against them.

CHAPTER XII.

Alaska's Capital.

Sitka has always seemed to me the jumping-off place. I have vaguely imagined that somehow--I
know not just how--it had a mysterious affinity with Moscow, and was in some way a dependence
of that Muscovite municipality. I was half willing to believe that an underground passage connected
the Kremlin with the Castle of Sitka; that the tiny capital of Great Alaska responded, though
feebly, to every throb of the Russian heart. Perhaps it did in the good old days now gone;
but there is little or nothing of the Russian element left, and the place is as dead as dead
can be without giving offence to the olfactory organ.

We were picking our way through a perfect wilderness of islands, on the lookout for the capital,
of which we had read and heard so much. Surely the Alaskan pilot must have the eye and the
instinct of a sea bird or he could never find a port in that labyrinth. Moreover, the air was
misty: we felt that we were approaching the sea. Lofty mountains towered above us; sometimes
the islands swam apart--they seemed all in motion, as if they were swinging to and fro on the
tide,--and then down a magnificent vista we saw the richly wooded slopes of some glorious height
that loomed out of the vapor and bathed its forehead in the sunshine. Sometimes the mist grew
denser, and we could see hardly a ship's-length ahead of us; and the air was so chilly that
our overcoats were drawn snugly about us, and we wondered what the temperature might be "down
south" in Dakota and New England.

In the grayest of gray days we came to Sitka, and very likely for this reason found it a disappointment
at first sight. Certainly it looked dreary enough as we approached it--a little cluster of
tumbledown houses scattered along a bleak and rocky shore. We steamed slowly past it, made
a big turn in deep water, got a tolerable view of the city from one end of it to the other,
and then crept up to the one little dock, made fast, and were all granted the freedom of the
capital for a couple of days. It is a gray place--gray with a greenish tinge in it--the kind
of green that looks perennial--a dark, dull evergreen.

There was some show of color among the costumes of the people on shore--bright blankets and
brighter calicoes,--but there was no suspicion of gaiety or of a possible show of enthusiasm
among the few sedate individuals who came down to see us disembark. I began to wonder if these
solemn spectators that were grouped along the dock were ghosts materialized for the occasion;
if the place were literally dead--dead as the ancient Russian cemetery on the hill, where the
white crosses with their double arms, the upper and shorter one aslant, shone through the sad
light of the waning day.

We had three little Russian maids on our passenger list, daughters of Father Mitropolski, the
Greek priest at Sitka. They were returning from a convent school at Victoria, and were bubbling
over with delight at the prospective joys of a summer vacation at home. But no sooner had they
received the paternal embraces upon the deck than the virtue of happiness went out of them;
and they became sedate little Sitkans, whose dignity belied the riotous spirit that had made
them the life of the ship on the way up.

We also brought home a little Russian chap who had been working down at Fort Wrangell, and,
having made a fortune--it was a fortune in his eyes,--he was returning to stay in the land
of his nativity. He was quiet enough on shipboard--indeed, he had almost escaped observation
until we sighted Sitka; but then his heart could contain itself no longer, and he made confidants
of several of us to whom he had spoken never a word until this moment. How glad he was to greet
its solemn shores, to him the dearest spot in all the earth! A few hours later we met him.
He was swinging on the gate at the homestead in the edge of the town: a sweet, primitive place,
that caught our eye before the youngster caught our ears with his cheerful greeting. "Oh, I
so glad!" said he, with a mist in his eye that harmonized with everything else. "I make eighty
dollar in four month at Wrangell. My sister not know me when I get home. I so glad to come
back to Sitka. I not go away any more."

Of course we poured out of the ship in short order, and spread through the town like ants.
At the top of the dock is the Northwest Trading Company's store--how we learned to know these
establishments! Some scoured it for a first choice, and got the pick of the wares; but here,
as elsewhere, we found the same motley collection of semi-barbarous bric-a-brac--brilliantly
painted Indian paddles spread like a sunburst against the farther wall; heaps of wooden masks
and all the fantastical carvings such as the aborigines delight in, and in which they almost
excel. Up the main street of the town is another store, where a series of large rooms, crowded
with curios bewilders the purchaser of those grotesque wares.

At the top of Katalan's rock, on the edge of the sea, stands the Colonial Castle. It is a wooden
structure, looking more like a barrack than a castle. At the foot of the rock are the barracks
and Custom House. A thin sprinkling of marines, a few foreign-looking citizens--the full-fledged
Rusk of the unmistakable type is hard to find nowadays,--and troops of Indians give a semblance
of life to this quarter. At the head of the street stands the Russian Orthodox Church; and
this edifice, with its quaint tower and spire, is really the lion of the place. St. Michael's
was dedicated in 1844 by the Venerable Ivan Venianimoff, the metropolitan of Moscow, for years
priest and Bishop at Ounalaska and Sitka.

In his time the little chapel was richly decorated; but as the settlement began falling to
decay, the splendid vestments and sacred vessels and altar ornaments, and even the Bishop himself,
were transferred to San Francisco. It then became the duty of the Bishop to visit annually
the churches at Sitka, Ounalaska and Kodiak, as the Russian Government still allowed these
dependencies an annuity of $50,000. But the last incumbent of the office, Bishop Nestor, was
lost tragically at sea in May, 1883; and, as the Russian priesthood seems to be less pious
than particular, the office is still a-begging--unless I have been misinformed. Probably the
mission will be abandoned. Certainly the dilapidated chapel, with its remnants of tarnished
finery, its three surviving families of Russian blood, its handful of Indian converts, seems
not likely to hold long together.

We witnessed a service in St. Michael's. The tinkling bells in the green belfry--a bulbous,
antique-looking belfry it is--rang us in from the four quarters of the town. As there were
neither pews, chairs nor prayer carpets, we stood in serio-comic silence while the double mysteries
of the hidden Holy of Holies were celebrated. Not more than a dozen devotees at most were present.
These gathered modestly in the rear of the nave and put us to shame with their reverent gravity.
Strange chants were chanted; it was a weird music, like a litany of bumblebees. Dense clouds
of incense issued from gilded recesses that were screened from view.

It was all very strange, very foreign, very unintelligible to us. It was also very monotonous;
and when some of the unbelievers grew restless and stole quietly about on voyages of exploration
and discovery, they were duly rewarded at the hands of the custodian of the chapel, who rather
encouraged the seeming sacrilege. He left his prayers unsaid to pilot us from nook to nook;
he exhibited the old paintings of Byzantine origin, and in broken English endeavored to interpret
their meaning. He opened antique chests that we might examine their contents; and when a volume
of prayers printed in rustic Russian type and bound with clumsy metal clasps, was bartered
for, he seemed quite willing to dispose of it, though it was the only one of the kind visible
on the premises. This excited our cupidity, and, with a purse in our hand, we groped into the
sacristy seeking what we might secure.

A set of small chromos came to light: bright visions of the Madonna, done in three or four
colors, on thin paper and fastened to blocks of wood. They were worth about two cents--perhaps
three for five. We paid fifty cents apiece, and were glad to get them at that price--oh, the
madness of the seeker after souvenirs! Then all unexpectedly we came upon a collection of half-obliterated
panel paintings. They were thrown carelessly in a deep window-seat, and had been overlooked
by many. They were Russian to the very grain of the wood; they were quaint to the verge of
the ludicrous; they were positively black with age; thick layers of dust and dirt and smoke
of incense coated them, so that the faint colors that were laid upon them were sunk almost
out of sight. The very wood itself was weather-stained, and a chip out of it left no trace
of life or freshness beneath. Centuries old they seemed, these small panels, sacred Ikons.
In far-away Russia they may have been venerated before this continent had verified the dream
of Columbus. As we were breaking nearly all the laws of propriety, I thought it safe to inquire
the price of these. I did so. Would I had been the sole one within hearing that I might have
glutted my gorge on the spot! They were fifteen cents apiece, and they were divided among us
as ruthlessly as if they were the seamless shirt of blessed memory.

Meanwhile the ceremonies at the high altar had come to an end. The amiable assistant of Father
Mitropolski was displaying the treasures of the sanctuary with pardonable pride,--jewelled
crosiers, golden chalices, robes resplendent with rubies, amethysts and pearls, paintings upon
ivory, and images clothed in silver and precious stones. The little chapel, cruciform, is decorated
in white and gold; the altar screens are of bronze set with images of silver. Soft carpets
of the Orient were spread upon the steps of the altar.

How pretty it all seemed as we turned to leave the place and saw everything dimly in the blue
vapor that still sweetened and hallowed it! And when the six bells in the belfry all fell to
ringing riotously, and the sun let slip a few stray beams that painted the spire a richer green,
and the grassy street that stretches from the church porch to the shore was dotted with groups
of strollers, St Michael's at Sitka, in spite of its dingy and unsymmetrical exterior, seemed
to us one of the prettiest spots it had ever been our lot to see.

It is a grassy and a mossy town that gathers about the Russian chapel. All the old houses were
built to last (as they are likely to do) for many generations to come. They are log-houses--the
public buildings, the once fashionable officers' club, and many of the residences,--formed
of solid square brown logs laid one upon another until you come to the roof. At times the logs
are clapboarded without, and are all lathed and plastered within. The floors are solid and
the stairs also. The wonder is how the town can ever go to ruin--save by fire; for wood doesn't
rot in Alaska, but will lie in logs exposed to the changes of the season for an indefinite period.

I saw in a wood back of the town an immense log. It was in the primeval forest, and below it
were layers of other logs lying crosswise and in confusion. I know not how far below me was
the solid earth, for mats of thick moss and deep beds of dead leaves filled the hollows between
the logs; but this log, nearly three feet in diameter, was above them all; and out of it--from
a seed no doubt imbedded in the bark--had sprung a tree that is to-day as great in girth as
the log that lies prostrate beneath its roots. These mighty roots have clasped that log in
an everlasting embrace and struck down into the soil below. You can conjecture how long the
log has been lying there in that tangle of mighty roots--yet the log is to-day as sound a bit
of timber as one is likely to find anywhere.

Alaska is buried under forests like these--I mean that part of it which is not still cased
in ice and snow. A late official gave me out of his cabinet a relic of the past. It is a stone
pestle, rudely but symmetrically hewn,--evidently the work of the aborigines. This pestle,
with several stone implements of domestic utility, was discovered by a party of prospectors
who had dug under the roots of a giant tree. Eleven feet beneath the surface, directly under
the tree and surrounded by gigantic roots, this pestle, and some others of a similar character,
together with mortars and various utensils, were scattered through the soil. Most of the collection
went to the Smithsonian Institute, and perhaps their origin and history may be some day conjectured.
How many ages more, I wonder, will be required to develop the resources of this vast out-of-door
country?

When the tardy darkness fell upon Sitka--toward midnight--the town was hardly more silent than
it had been throughout the day. A few lights were twinkling in distant windows; a few Indians
were prowling about; the water rippled along the winding shore; and from time to time as the
fresh gusts blew in from the sea, some sleepless bird sailed over us on shadowy wings, and
uttered a half-smothered cry that startled the listener. Then, indeed, old Sitka, which was
once called New Archangel, seemed but a relic of the past, whose vague, romantic history will
probably never be fully known.

CHAPTER XIII.

Katalan's Rock.

Katalan's Rock towers above the sea at the top corner of Sitka. Below it, on the one hand,
the ancient colonial houses are scattered down the shore among green lawns like pasture lands,
and beside grass-grown streets with a trail of dust in the middle of them. On the other hand,
the Siwash Indian lodges are clustered all along the beach. This rancheria was originally separated
from the town by a high stockade, and the huge gates were closed at night for the greater security
of the inhabitants; but since the American occupation the gates have been destroyed, and only
a portion of the stockade remains.

Katalan's Rock is steep enough to command the town, and ample enough to afford all the space
necessary for fortifications and the accommodation of troops and stores. A natural Gibraltar,
it was the site of the first settlement, and has ever remained the most conspicuous and distinguished
quarter of the colony. The first building erected on this rock was a block-house, which was
afterward burned. A second building, reared on the ruins of the first, was destroyed by an
earthquake; but a third, the colonial castle and residence of the governors, stands to this
day. It crowns the summit of the rock, is one hundred and forty feet in length, seventy feet
in depth, two stories with basement and attic, and has a lookout that commands one of the most
romantic and picturesque combinations of land and sea imaginable.

It is not a handsome edifice, nor is it in the least like a castle, nor like what one supposes
a castle should be. Were it anywhere else, it might pass for the country residence of a gentleman
of the old school, or for an unfashionable suburban hotel, or for a provincial seminary. It
is built of solid cedar logs that seem destined to weather the storms of ages. These logs are
secured by innumerable copper bolts; and the whole structure is riveted to the rocks, so that
neither wind nor wave nor earthquake shock is likely to prevail against it.

Handsomely finished within, it was in the colonial days richly furnished; and as Sitka was
at that time a large settlement composed of wealthy and highbred Russians, governed by a prince
or a baron whose petty court was made up of the representatives of the rank and fashion of
St. Petersburg and Moscow, the colonial castle was most of the time the scene of social splendor.

The fame of the brilliant and beautiful Baroness Wrangell, first chatelaine of the castle,
lives after her. She was succeeded by the wife of Governor Kupreanoff, a brave lady, who in
1835 crossed Siberia on horseback to Behring Sea on her way to Sitka. Later the Princess Maksontoff
became the social queen, and reigned in the little castle on Katalan's Rock as never queen
reigned before. A flagship was anchored under the windows, and the proud Admiral spent much
of his time on shore. The officers' clubhouse, yonder down the grassy street, was the favorite
lounging place of the navy. The tea-gardens have run to seed, and the race-course is obliterated,
where, doubtless, fair ladies and brave men disported themselves in the interminable twilights
of the Alaskan summer. In the reign of the Princess Maksontoff the ladies were first shown
to the sideboard. When they had regaled themselves with potent punch and caviare, the gentlemen
followed suit. But the big brazen samovar was forever steaming in the grand salon, and delicious
draughts of caravan tea were in order at all hours.

What days they were, when the castle was thronged with guests, and those of all ages and descriptions
and from every rank in and out of society! The presidential levee is not more democratic than
were the fétes of the Princess Maksontoff. To the music of the Admiral's band combined with
the castle orchestra, it was "all hands round." The Prince danced with each and every lady
in turn. The Princess was no less gracious, for all danced with her who chose, from the Lord
High Admiral to midshipmite and the crew of the captain's gig.

You will read of these things in the pages of Lutka, Sir George Simpson, Sir Edward Belcher,
and other early voyagers. They vouch for the unique charm of the colonial life at that day.
Washington Irving, in his "Astoria," has something to say of New Archangel (Michael), or "Sheetka,"
as he spells it; but it is of the time when the ships of John Jacob Astor were touching in
that vicinity, and the reports are not so pleasing.

