I believe that the world needs the Society of Friends as a testimony and a standard.  I know
that this is the opinion of some of the best and most thoughtful members of other Christian
sects.  I know that any serious departure from the original foundation of our Society would
give pain to many who, outside of our communion, deeply realize the importance of our testimonies.
They fail to read clearly the signs of the times who do not see that the hour is coming when,
under the searching eye of philosophy and the terrible analysis of science, the letter and
the outward evidence will not altogether avail us; when the surest dependence must be upon
the Light of Christ within, disclosing the law and the prophets in our own souls, and confirming
the truth of outward Scripture by inward experience; when smooth stones from the brook of present
revelation shall' prove mightier than the weapons of Saul; when the doctrine of the Holy Spirit,
as proclaimed by George Fox and lived by John Woolman, shall be recognized as the only efficient
solvent of doubts raised by an age of restless inquiry.  In this belief my letter was written.
I am sorry it did not fall to the lot of a more fitting hand; and can only hope that no consideration
of lack of qualification on the part of its writer may lessen the value of whatever testimony
to truth shall be found in it.

AMESBURY, 3d mo., 1870.

P. S.  I may mention that I have been somewhat encouraged by a perusal of the Proceedings of
the late First-day School Conference in Philadelphia, where, with some things which I am compelled
to pause over, and regret, I find much with which I cordially unite, and which seems to indicate
a providential opening for good.  I confess to a lively and tender sympathy with my younger
brethren and sisters who, in the name of Him who "went about doing good," go forth into the
highways and byways to gather up the lost, feed the hungry, instruct the ignorant, and point
the sinsick and suffering to the hopes and consolations of Christian faith, even if, at times,
their zeal goes beyond "reasonable service," and although the importance of a particular instrumentality
may be exaggerated, and love lose sight of its needful companion humility, and he that putteth
on his armor boast like him who layeth it off.  Any movement, however irregular, which indicates
life, is better than the quiet of death.  In the overruling providence of God, the troubling
may prepare the way for healing.  Some of us may have erred on one hand and some on the other,
and this shaking of the balance may adjust it.

JOHN WOOLMAN'S JOURNAL.

Originally published as an introduction to a reissue of the work.

To those who judge by the outward appearance, nothing is more difficult of explanation than
the strength of moral influence often exerted by obscure and uneventful lives.  Some great
reform which lifts the world to a higher level, some mighty change for which the ages have
waited in anxious expectancy, takes place before our eyes, and, in seeking to trace it back
to its origin, we are often surprised to find the initial link in the chain of causes to be
some comparatively obscure individual, the divine commission and significance of whose life
were scarcely understood by his contemporaries, and perhaps not even by himself.  The little
one has become a thousand; the handful of corn shakes like Lebanon.  "The kingdom of God cometh
not by observation;" and the only solution of the mystery is in the reflection that through
the humble instrumentality Divine power was manifested, and that the Everlasting Arm was beneath
the human one.

The abolition of human slavery now in process of consummation throughout the world furnishes
one of the most striking illustrations of this truth. A far-reaching moral, social, and political
revolution, undoing the evil work of centuries, unquestionably owes much of its original impulse
to the life and labors of a poor, unlearned workingman of New Jersey, whose very existence
was scarcely known beyond the narrow circle of his religious society.

It is only within a comparatively recent period that the journal and ethical essays of this
remarkable man have attracted the attention to which they are manifestly entitled.  In one
of my last interviews with William Ellery Channing, he expressed his very great surprise that
they were so little known.  He had himself just read the book for the first time, and I shall
never forget how his countenance lighted up as he pronounced it beyond comparison the sweetest
and purest autobiography in the language.  He wished to see it placed within the reach of all
classes of readers; it was not a light to be hidden under the bushel of a sect. Charles Lamb,
probably from his friends, the Clarksons, or from Bernard Barton, became acquainted with it,
and on more than one occasion, in his letters and Essays of Elia, refers to it with warm commendation.
Edward Irving pronounced it a godsend.  Some idea of the lively interest which the fine literary
circle gathered around the hearth of Lamb felt in the beautiful simplicity of Woolman's pages
may be had from the Diary of Henry Crabb Robinson, one of their number, himself a man of wide
and varied culture, the intimate friend of Goethe, Wordsworth, and Coleridge. In his notes
for First Month, 1824, he says, after a reference to a sermon of his friend Irving, which he
feared would deter rather than promote belief:

"How different this from John Woolman's Journal I have been reading at the same time!  A perfect
gem!  His is a schone Seele, a beautiful soul.  An illiterate tailor, he writes in a style
of the most exquisite purity and grace.  His moral qualities are transferred to his writings.
Had he not been so very humble, he would have written a still better book; for, fearing to
indulge in vanity, he conceals the events in which he was a great actor.  His religion was
love.  His whole existence and all his passions were love.  If one could venture to impute
to his creed, and not to his personal character, the delightful frame of mind he exhibited,
one could not hesitate to be a convert.  His Christianity is most inviting, it is fascinating!
One of the leading British reviews a few years ago, referring to this Journal, pronounced its
author the man who, in all the centuries since the advent of Christ, lived nearest to the Divine
pattern.  The author of The Patience of Hope, whose authority in devotional literature is unquestioned,
says of him: 'John Woolman's gift was love, a charity of which it does not enter into the natural
heart of man to conceive, and of which the more ordinary experiences, even of renewed nature,
give but a faint shadow.  Every now and then, in the world's history, we meet with such men,
the kings and priests of Humanity, on whose heads this precious ointment has been so poured
forth that it has run down to the skirts of their clothing, and extended over the whole of
the visible creation; men who have entered, like Francis of Assisi, into the secret of that
deep amity with God and with His creatures which makes man to be in league with the stones
of the field, and the beasts of the field to be at peace with him.  In this pure, universal
charity there is nothing fitful or intermittent, nothing that comes and goes in showers and
gleams and sunbursts.  Its springs are deep and constant, its rising is like that of a mighty
river, its very overflow calm and steady, leaving life and fertility behind it.'"

After all, anything like personal eulogy seems out of place in speaking of one who in the humblest
self-abasement sought no place in the world's estimation, content to be only a passive instrument
in the hands of his Master; and who, as has been remarked, through modesty concealed the events
in which he was an actor.  A desire to supply in some sort this deficiency in his Journal is
my especial excuse for this introductory paper.

It is instructive to study the history of the moral progress of individuals or communities;
to mark the gradual development of truth; to watch the slow germination of its seed sown in
simple obedience to the command of the Great Husbandman, while yet its green promise, as well
as its golden fruition, was hidden from the eyes of the sower; to go back to the well-springs
and fountain-heads, tracing the small streamlet from its hidden source, and noting the tributaries
which swell its waters, as it moves onward, until it becomes a broad river, fertilizing and
gladdening our present humanity.  To this end it is my purpose, as briefly as possible, to
narrate the circumstances attending the relinquishment of slave-holding by the Society of Friends,
and to hint at the effect of that act of justice and humanity upon the abolition of slavery
throughout the world.

At an early period after the organization of the Society, members of it emigrated to the Maryland,
Carolina, Virginia, and New England colonies. The act of banishment enforced against dissenters
under Charles II. consigned others of the sect to the West Indies, where their frugality, temperance,
and thrift transmuted their intended punishment into a blessing.

Unhappily, they very early became owners of slaves, in imitation of the colonists around them.
No positive condemnation of the evil system had then been heard in the British islands.  Neither
English prelates nor expounders at dissenting conventicles had aught to say against it.  Few
colonists doubted its entire compatibility with Christian profession and conduct.  Saint and
sinner, ascetic and worldling, united in its practice.  Even the extreme Dutch saints of Bohemia
Manor community, the pietists of John de Labadie, sitting at meat with hats on, and pausing
ever and anon with suspended mouthfuls to bear a brother's or sister's exhortation, and sandwiching
prayers between the courses, were waited upon by negro slaves.  Everywhere men were contending
with each other upon matters of faith, while, so far as their slaves were concerned, denying
the ethics of Christianity itself.

Such was the state of things when, in 1671, George Fox visited Barbadoes. He was one of those
men to whom it is given to discern through the mists of custom and prejudice something of the
lineaments of absolute truth, and who, like the Hebrew lawgiver, bear with them, from a higher
and purer atmosphere, the shining evidence of communion with the Divine Wisdom.  He saw slavery
in its mildest form among his friends, but his intuitive sense of right condemned it.  He solemnly
admonished those who held slaves to bear in mind that they were brethren, and to train them
up in the fear of God.  "I desired, also," he says, "that they would cause their overseers
to deal gently and mildly with their negroes, and not use cruelty towards them as the manner
of some hath been and is; and that, after certain years of servitude, they should make them free."

In 1675, the companion of George Fox, William Edmundson, revisited Barbadoes, and once more
bore testimony against the unjust treatment of slaves.  He was accused of endeavoring to excite
an insurrection among the blacks, and was brought before the Governor on the charge.  It was
probably during this journey that he addressed a remonstrance to friends in Maryland and Virginia
on the subject of holding slaves.  It is one of the first emphatic and decided testimonies
on record against negro slavery as incompatible with Christianity, if we except the Papal bulls
of Urban and Leo the Tenth.

