To see Santa Barbara at its best you must go there for the Floral Carnival. Then at high noon,
on a mid-April day, all State Street is brilliantly decorated with leaves of the date-palm,
pampa plumes, moss combined with tropical foliage, calla-lilies, wildflowers, bamboo, immortelles,
branches of pepper trees, evergreens, lemon boughs laden with yellow fruit, and variegated
shrubs. Draperies of white and gold, with green or red in contrast, or blue and white, in harmony
with red flowers, or floral arches draped with fish-nets bestrewn with pink roses; or yellow
alone in draperies combined with the poppy, or gray moss and roses. No one fails to respond
to the color summons for the day of days. The meat-markets are tastefully concealed with a
leafy screen and callas. The undertaker makes his place as cheerful as possible with evergreens,
roses, and red geraniums. The drugstore is gaily trimmed, and above the door see the great
golden mortar made of marigolds. The Mexican and Californian colors are often flung out, and
flags are flying from many windows. The long broad street is a blaze of glory; the immense
audience, seated on tiers of benches, wait patiently, then impatiently, for the expected procession;
and as many more people are standing in line, equally eager. Many have baskets or armfuls of
flowers, with which to pelt the passing acquaintance. There are moments of such intense interest
that everything is indelibly and eternally photographed. I see, as I write, the absolutely
cloudless sky of perfect blue, the sea a darker shade, equally perfect, the white paved street,
the kaleidoscope of color, the fluttering pennants, the faces of the crowd all turned in one
direction, and hark! the band is really coming, the beginning of the pageant is just seen,
and now sea, sky, flags, crowds are no more regarded, for the long-talked-of parade is here.
See advancing the Grand Commander and his showy aids, gay Spanish cavaliers, the horses stepping
proudly, realizing the importance of the occasion, the saddles and bridles wound with ribbons
or covered with flowers. And next the Goddess of Flowers, in canopy-covered shell, a pretty
little Mayflower of a maiden, with a band of maids of honor, each in a dainty shell. The shouts
and applause add to the excitement, and flowers are hurled in merry war at the cavaliers, and
the goddess and her attendants. Next comes the George Washington coach, modelled after the
historic vehicle, occupied by stately dames and courtly gentlemen in colonial array; even the
footmen are perfection in the regulation livery of that period. Solemn and imposing this may
be, but they get a merciless shower of roses, and one of the prizes. And do look at the haymakers!
Oh, that is charming! Country girls and boys on a load of new-mown hay, with broad-brimmed
hats, and dresses trimmed with wild-flowers. And now the advance-guard is coming down again;
they have just turned at the head of the line, and it is already a little confusing. But the
judges! How can they keep cool, or even think, with such a clamor of voices, and guests chattering
thoughtlessly to them. Here comes a big basket on wheels, handle and all covered with moss
and roses. Four girls in pink silk trimmed with moss stand within, bearing shields of pink
roses to protect their laughing faces from excess of attention. What a lovely picture! Another
basket just behind covered entirely with marguerites; the wheels also are each a marguerite,
the white horses with harness covered with yellow ribbon--so dainty, so cool.