DAHCOTAH;

                                   OR,

                      LIFE AND LEGENDS OF THE SIOUX

                          AROUND FORT SNELLING.

                          BY MRS. MARY EASTMAN,

                                  WITH

                     PREFACE BY MRS. C. M. KIRKLAND.

              ILLUSTRATED FROM DRAWINGS BY CAPTAIN EASTMAN. 

"Never mind, Bob," I said (I had overtaken him and old Molly sauntering
up the steep hill above the village); "if it comes to that, you know,
the women-folk will have to take turns at the carrying while you are
away.

I believe I should make rather a good carrier."

Bob shook his head and looked evasive.

"No, Miss," he said, "'twuddn'do,'twuddn'do at all."

"Come," I said, "you don't mean to say Molly would be too much for
me?"

"No, Miss,'tain't Molly, but-- well,'tain't no job for a lady, ain't the carryin'; leastways,
not to my way o'thinkin'."

"Oh, but I should get the people at the shops to help me with the
heavy things."

Bob cleared his throat loudly and looked more uncomfortable still.

Then at last he decided to take the plunge.

"'Tain't the liftin'that do be troublin'I, Miss," he said confidentially, "'tis
the'ead-work.

I don't believe there be a wumman livin'could do it. There be a tur'ble lot of'ead-work in the
carryin'business. Why, I do think-- think-- think mornen till night, till what wi'one thing an'what
wi'another thing I'm sure there's times when I don't know if I be on my'ead or my'eels. Why,
I've seen the time when I've a-comed in and I've a-set down and I've a-said to Missis,'No,
Missis, I don't want no tea; I don't want nothen only to set quiet, for I be just about tired
out with that there thinkin'.'"

There be such a sight o'things you do have to remember, lookee. What wi'the grocer, an'what wi'the
draper, an'folks's parcels to leave an'folks's parcels to call for, an'picken up here an'setten
down there-- well, a woman's brain ain't strong enough for it, leastways not to my way o'thinkin'....
"Well, now, if I ain't a-gone an'forgot to call at old Mrs. Pettigrew's
for her subscription for to get made up at the chemist's! There, now,
Miss, don't that just show how you do'ave to kip on thinkin'all the
time, else you be just about sure to forget somethin'or another?

Oh yes, there be a smartish lot of'ead-work in the carryin'business, an'no mistake!"***** An
Enviable Post. From a list of the new Government:-- "Chancellor of the Ducky of Lancaster: Sir Frederick
Cawley."-- Star (Johannesburg).***** "Man, to drive horse and make himself generally useful in
nursery."-- Provincial Press.

No doubt a rocking-horse.***** From a New Zealand diocesan magazine:--
"Owing to the continued illness of the Vicar, which we trust is reaching
its last stage, the services of the Church have been conducted by
the following," etc. The Vicar, we understand, thinks this might have
been more tactfully worded.********** THE PURIFIED PRUSSIAN.

[Writing in Die Woche a well-known Baroness, a leader of Berlin society,
discusses the transformation and purification of Berlin conviviality
by the War.

Social functions accompanied by eating have altogether ceased and
given way to more refined gatherings-- æsthetic afternoon teas and
elegant evening parties-- at which the conversation reaches heights
of brilliancy unheard of in the old carnivorous days.

Unhappily snobbery still prevails, "every class pretending to be
richer and better than they are-- small officials, officers, landowners,
all pretending to be millionaires, and doing their pretension shabbily."]
One of the leading Prussian social stars Opines that War, although
it makes for leanness, Not only banishes discordant jars And purifies
Berlin of all uncleanness, But places her, beatified by Mars, Upon
a pinnacle of mental keenness, Changing the cult of trencher and of
bowl To feasts of reason and o'erflows of soul.

The gross carnivorous orgies of the past Have gone, and in their
place is something finer; Emotions of a transcendental cast Preoccupy
the luncher and the diner; The Hun, in short, by being forced to fast,
Has grown ethereal, more alert, diviner; And, purged of all incentive
to frivolity, His speech has almost lost its guttural quality.

His talk, of old to stodginess inclined, Now sparkles with consistent
coruscation, Attaining heights of mirth and wit combined Unknown to
any previous generation, But always exquisitely pure, refined And
spiritual, as befits the nation In which the nicer touch was never
missing Down from great FREDERICK to blameless BISSING.'Tis easy,
though the writer does not tell, To guess the themes which prompt
the brightest sallies; Louvain; the Lusitania; Nurse CAVELL-- With
these Hun wit most delicately dallies; The wreck of Reims; the Prussic
acid shell; The desolation of Armenia's valleys; The toll of Belgian
infants slain ere birth-- All these excite Berlin's ecstatic mirth.

And yet a slight amari aliquid Is mingled with this lady's honeyed
phrases; Berlin society is not yet rid Of one of its less admirable
phases; There is, in other words, one fly amid The precious ointment
of the writer's praises; In every class are those who ape the airs
Of the superior nobs and millionaires.

But still, when all reserves are duly made For negligible faults
in tact or breeding, The picture by this noble scribe displayed Of
high-browed Hundom makes impressive reading; For homage to convivial
needs is paid Without the faintest risk of over-feeding, And, braced
by frugal fare, the Prussian brain Soars to a perfectly celestial
plane.*****]********** A FLEETING DETACHMENT.

Private Albert Snape, A. S. C. (M. T.), stepped off the footboard
of X. 33, a mediæval Vanguard, and splashed his way round to the
driver.

"I'm fair sick o'this'ere Flanders, I am," he complained, expectorating dolorously into the sea of mud;
"'spose it'ull be up to the blinkin'axles before February?"

He stirred the mixture with a cautious foot.

"Not'arf, ole sport," replied the driver, carefully unsticking a
cigarette from his underlip.

"But yer ought to'ave bin out larst winter, then yer did'ave to sit
above yerself to keep yer tootsies dry."

"Wot-- wuss than this?" exclaimed the disconsolate one.

"Wuss!" was the withering retort. "Wy, when I tells yer that some o'them Naval'Umming-birds, t'other
side o'Popinjay, fitted out an ole Blue'Ammersmith with a pair o'propellers... Wuss!" He exhaled
scornfully and gave a turn to the lubricator. "Any chance o'getting down Vermelly way? They
say it ain't'arf bad there." Albert brightened up at the thought. "'Tain't likely," was the
sharp and unsympathetic reply. "'Oo do yer think's goin'ter do this little job if they takes
our lot away? Wy, this'ere road is just like'Igh'Olborn to me; I knows all the'umps and'ollows
blindfold."

Albert returned to the stern sheets and considered the most feasible method of desertion. Half-an-hour
later, when the daylight had gone, X. 33, generously over-flowing with a detachment of the
20th Mudlarkers, was, in company with many other vehicles, making her inharmonious way along the
"Wipers" road.

Judging from the plunginess of her progress and the fluent language of
the man of oil, it was evident that some of the "'umps and'ollows"
had passed from the driver's memory. Not that such a slight matter
could damp the spirits of the passengers. Rather it served to entertain
them.

"We'ave gone an'fallen out of the dress-circle this time," a voice exclaimed after an extra steep dive
into a badly-filled shell crater. Albert, wet and unsociable, hung gloomily on to the back rail. "Carn't
see wot they got to be so blinkin'' appy abart," he muttered savagely; "I don't believe it's'arf bad in them
trenches."

He ruminated bitterly on the thought that his job was probably the worst one on the whole front, and
made a resolve to put the matter right. When the final stopping-place had been reached and the
20th Mudlarkers, after the usual indescribable mêlée, had been put upon the path that would ultimately
lead them (if they were fortunate enough to avoid all guides, philosophers
and friends) to their trench, the man of oil was profanely grieved
to discover that Albert Snape had abandoned X33 for the unknown.

As a matter of fact Albert had slipped away and followed the Mudlarkers, with a hazy idea that
a rifle would fortuitously present itself. That an extra unit could possibly be noticed never occurred
to him. He had a vague intention of joining a cavalry regiment. Very soon he lost the Mudlarkers,
and then, by an easy sequence of events, himself.

"Wha goes there?" whispered a hoarse voice almost in his ear. It gave him quite an unpleasant start,
but, suppressing his first inspiration, which was to say the Life Guards, he answered, "I'm a Mudlarker!"
"This iss the Seaforths in supporrt," remarked the sentry; "ye'll be in the firrst line, na doot.
Ye'll hae to go back, an'it's the firrst turnin'tae the left, an'keep
as strecht as ye can."

The Highlander stepped back into the deeper shadows and the self-recruited
Mudlarker continued his career.

He traversed what seemed to him an interminable number of trenches
without encountering anyone.

There was a reason for this lack of companionship, but it did not
at first appeal to his imagination.

Suddenly he was startled by the vicious "phut, phut, phut" of unpleasantly
close shooting, and bullets began to splash and grease along the bottom
of the trench, accompanied by the stutter of a machine gun.

Miraculously untouched, he slid over the parados and lay, sweating
with fright, in the watery furrow of a turnip field.

The trench was one that was seldom used, being thoroughly exposed to enfilading fire. At stated
periods through the night a machine gun was turned on, a proceeding
which, beyond gratifying the Huns, had no sort of effect.

Albert, in blissful ignorance of all such customs, floundered about amongst the turnips until he
came across a Jack Johnson crater. From this he emerged even wetter than before. A little later
he became mixed up with some barbed wire.

The more be tried to get away the more inextricably he became involved with it. A star shell burst
overhead, and a German sniper, seizing the chance of a lifetime, put in four rounds rapid fire.
Albert lost the lobe of an ear and had his breeches shot through,
but he managed to escape from the wire and find another furrow.

Mere dampness no longer inconvenienced him, there were so many other
things to think about.

He crawled stealthily on his hands and knees and found the barbed wire again. At length he heard
the welcome sound of voices. He crawled faster until he became aware that the voices were not speaking
English, This discovery turned him to stone.

For an hour-- perhaps two hours-- he remained as still as a hare in its form. Suddenly, blurred and
crouching figures appeared out of the night.

They moved quickly and silently. One of them nearly trod upon his hand, but he was too dazed to
think of committing himself to either speech or action. "Give it'em!" cried a voice a few seconds
later, and the roar of the exploding bombs signified that it had
been given.

Instantly pandemonium broke loose.

Machine gun and rapid rifle fire burst forth from the German front trenches, and streams of bullets
swept over the intervening ground like a gigantic hail-storm; then some field batteries began
to burst H. E. shrapnel above the disturbed area, while star shells and magnesium flares threw an uneven
light over the whole scene. A breathless body cast itself down beside the now completely mesmerised
Albert: "We ain't'arf upset the blinkin'beehive. Lumme! it's--" The prone figure suddenly became
silent, gave a convulsive kick or two and rolled over towards the
man who still lived.

It was sufficient. Something seemed to draw very tense in Albert's brain and his body reeled into action.
Blindly and without coherent thought he ran shouting across the field,
stumbling and falling over the slippery and uneven surface, but always
picking himself up and flinging his body onward into the unknown.

A subaltern, who was examining a luminous watch, received him at
the charge as he fell into an English first-line trench.

They struggled wildly together in the mud to the accompaniment of startling language on the part
of the subaltern. Then Albert, having reached his limit of endurance, had the supreme tact to faint.
A little later, in a well-found dug-out, the patient was refreshing
himself with copious draughts of brandy.

"Who are you, and what the devil are you doing here?" asked the still indignant officer. Albert did not
hesitate longer than it takes to swallow. "Lorst me way, I'ave, Sir. I'm with X 33, attached to
Mechanical Transport, an'if I ain't back pretty quick my mate'ull fair'ave a bloomin'fit."*****
As was predicted by the sagacious man of oil, the mud upon the----
road is slowly climbing towards the axles, but in spite of this and
sundry other drawbacks it would be hard to find a more contented spirit
than that of Private Albert Snape, A. S. C. (M. T.).***** LIONS AT
PLAY.

BY A SUBALTERN. The Colonel rustles his newspaper, smites it into shape with a mighty fist, rips
it across in a futile endeavour to fold it accurately, and, casting it furiously aside in a crumpled
mass, says, after the manner of all true War Lords, "Umph." Whereupon the Ante-Room as one
man takes cover.

The Colonel then turns cumbrously in his chair, permitting his eye to rove round the room in search
of the unwary prey. He smiles cynically at the intense concentration
of the Auction parties; winces at the renewed and unnatural efforts
of those who make music; glares unamiably at the feverish book-worms,
and suddenly breaks into little chuckles of satisfaction.

The Ante-Room peers cautiously round to discover the identity of
the unfortunate victim, and chuckles in its turn.

The Adjutant, checked in his stealthy retreat, hastens back, arranges
the table and chess-board, pokes the fire with unnecessary energy,
and sits down.

At once the Ante-Room abandons its cover. The Colonel begins by grasping the
box, turning it upside down, and spilling the contents over the sides
of the table.

The Adjutant immediately apologises for his clumsiness. The Colonel
then liberally spreads out the pieces, selects two pawns, and offers
the Adjutant the choice of two fists.

The Adjutant chooses. Each fist opens to disclose a white pawn. The
Colonel's expansive smile over his little joke quickly turns to a
frown at the Adjutant's exaggerated laughter.

He suspects the Adjutant. He seizes two more pieces, offers his opponent another
choice, but, to the latter's huge delight and his own discomfiture, eventually
discovers that both are black.

He accordingly makes use of his casting vote and selects white. The
Colonel plays a smashing game.

When it is his turn to move he never pauses to make up his mind.
His mind is already made up.

All he has to do, immediately the Adjutant has finished touching
up his position, is to move the piece his eye has been piercing throughout
the long period of his opponent's cautious deliberation.

When the Colonel moves a piece he may be said to get there. All obstructions
are ruthlessly swept aside with a callous indifference to Hague Conventions.

Should a knight haply descend from the clouds and settle on the correct square it arrives more by
luck than judgment. Tradition alleges that whenever the Colonel is called upon to move his king
in the earlier stages of the game all lights are turned off from
the neighbouring town in accordance with the Defence of the Realm
Regulations.

However true this may be-- the responsibility rests on the Padre's capable shoulders-- when
his king is moved in the later stages the Colonel pushes it along by half-squares in a haphazard
and preoccupied manner. He invariably fills his pipe when the end
is in sight, but leaves it unlighted so that he may cover his ultimate
defeat by a general demolition of matches.

On this occasion the Adjutant skilfully snipes the Colonel's queen in the sixth move. The Colonel
immediately retrieves the piece from the box, asks where it was before, examines it with the essence
of loathing and revolt, removes it out of his sight, and refuses
to take it back, although he had mistaken it for another piece.

In retaliation he proceeds to concentrate all his effectives on his opponent's queen, and, after sacrificing
the flower of his forces, drives the attack home and gains his objective with the greatest
enthusiasm.

He remarks that the capture was costly, but that honour is satisfied, and would the waiter kindly
approach within ear-shot?

While the Adjutant is working up his offensive on the Colonel's right flank, the Colonel himself is making
independent sallies on the left, unless, of course, he is compelled to march his king out of a
congested district into more open country. On the rare occasions when he is at a loss for a moment
what to do he makes it a practice to move a pawn one square in order
to gain time.

By this method, unexpectedly but none the less jubilantly, he recovers his queen-- only to see
it laid low again by enfilading fire from a perfectly obvious redoubt.

After twenty minutes of battle the Colonel's area becomes positively draughty, and the sole survivors
of his dashing but sanguinary counter-attack, the king and two pawns,
have assumed the bored and callous air of a remnant that has fought
too long and is called upon to fight again.

The Colonel has just unceremoniously pushed his sovereign to the rear with a flick of his nervous
irritated little finger.

His opponent can obviously bring him to his knees in two moves. Instead of which the Adjutant brazenly
commences with massed bands and colours flying to execute a masterly
tactical advance with the whole of his command-- cavalry, infantry,
church and tanks, in order to achieve the destruction of the two bantam
bodyguards.

This is not playing the game,
and the Colonel fumes inwardly and frets outwardly. The Indians call
them Mine-hah-hah, or "laughing waters." In sight of Fort Snelling is a beautiful hill called
Morgan's Bluff; the Indians call it "God's House." They have a tradition that it is the residence
of their god of the waters, whom they call Unk-ta-he. Nothing can be more lovely than the situation
and appearance of this hill; it commands on every side a magnificent view, and during the summer
it is carpeted with long grass and prairie flowers. But, to those who have lived the last few
years at Fort Snelling, this hill presents another source of interest. On its top are buried
three young children, who were models of health and beauty until the scarlet fever found its
way into regions hitherto shielded from its approach. They lived but long enough on earth to
secure them an entrance into heaven. Life, which ought to be a blessing to all, was to them
one of untold value; for it was a short journey to a better land--a translation from the yet
unfelt cares of earth to the bright and endless joys of heaven.

Opposite the Fort is Pilot Knob, a high peak, used as a burial-place by the Indians; just below
it is the village of Mendota, or the "Meeting of the Waters."

But to me, the greatest objects of interest and curiosity were the original owners of the country,
whose teepees could be seen in every direction. One could soon know all that was to be known
about Pilot Knob or St. Anthony's falls; but one is puzzled completely to comprehend the character
of an Indian man, woman, or child. At one moment, you see an Indian chief raise himself to
his full height, and say that the ground on which he stands is his own; at the next, beg bread
and pork from an enemy. An Indian woman will scornfully refuse to wash an article that might
be needed by a white family--and the next moment, declare that she had not washed her face
in fifteen years! An Indian child of three years old, will cling to its mother under the walls
of the Fort, and then plunge into the Mississippi, and swim half way across, in hopes of finding
an apple that has been thrown in. We may well feel much curiosity to look into the habits,
manners, and motives of a race exhibiting such contradictions.

There is a great deal said of Indian warriors--and justly too of the Sioux. They are, as a
race, tall fine-looking men; and many of those who have not been degraded by association with
the frontier class of white people, nor had their intellects destroyed by the white man's fire-water,
have minds of high order, and reason with a correctness that would put to the blush the powers
of many an educated logician. Yet are these men called savages, and morally associated with
the tomahawk and scalping knife. Few regard them as reasonable creatures, or as beings endowed
by their creator with souls, that are here to be fitted for the responsibilities of the Indians
hereafter.

Good men are sending the Bible to all parts of the world. Sermons are preached in behalf of
fellow-creatures who are perishing in regions known only to us in name. And here, within reach
of comparatively the slightest exertion; here, not many miles from churches and schools, and
all the moral influences abounding in Christian society; here, in a country endowed with every
advantage that God can bestow, are perishing, body and soul, our own countrymen: perishing
too from disease, starvation and intemperance, and all the evils incident to their unhappy
condition. White men, Christian men, are driving them back; rooting out their very names from
the face of the earth. Ah! these men can seek the country of the Sioux when money is to be
gained: but how few care for the sufferings of the Dahcotahs! how few would give a piece of
money, a prayer, or even a thought, towards their present and eternal good.

Yet are they not altogether neglected. Doctor Williamson, one of the missionaries among the
Sioux, lives near Fort Snelling. He is exerting himself to the utmost to promote the moral
welfare of the unhappy people among whom he expects to pass his life. He has a school for the
Indian children, and many of them read well. On the Sabbath, divine service is regularly held,
and he has labored to promote the cause of temperance among the Sioux. Christian exertion is
unhappily too much influenced by the apprehension that little can be done for the savage. How
is it with the man on his fire-water mission to the Indian? Does he doubt? Does he fail?

As a great motive to improve the moral character of the Indians, I present the condition of
the women in their tribes. A degraded state of woman is universally characteristic of savage
life, as her elevated influence in civilized society is the conspicuous standard of moral and
social virtue. As a maiden, she is valued while the young man, who wants her for a wife, may
have a doubt of his success. But when she is a wife, there is little sympathy for her condition.
How soon do the oppressive storms and contentions of life root out all that is kind or gentle
in her heart. She must bear the burdens of the family. Should her husband wish it, she must
travel all day with a heavy weight on her back; and at night when they stop, her hands must
prepare the food for her family before she retires to rest.

Her work is never done. She makes the summer and the winter house. For the former she peels
the bark from the trees in the spring; for the latter she sews the deer-skin together. She
tans the skins of which coats, mocassins, and leggins are to be made for the family; she has
to scrape it and prepare it while other cares are pressing upon her. When her child is born,
she has no opportunities for rest or quiet. She must paddle the canoe for her husband--pain
and feebleness must be forgotten. She is always hospitable. Visit her in her teepee, and she
willingly gives you what you need, if in her power; and with alacrity does what she can to
promote your comfort. In her looks there is little that is attractive. Time has not caused
the wrinkles in her forehead, nor the furrows in her cheek. They are the traces of want, passion,
sorrows and tears. Her bent form was once light and graceful. Labor and privations are not
preservative of beauty.

Let it not be deemed impertinent if I venture to urge upon those who care for the wretched
wherever their lot may be cast, the immense good that might be accomplished among these tribes
by schools, which should open the minds of the young to the light of reason and Christianity. "We
have been putting up a fascine battery within two hundred and fifteen yards of the west gate," he
said, "It will open fire in an hour, and then you will see a cannonade! We have two forty-two
pounders there, it will be no child's play." Nothing had then hinted at the Titanic scale of
modern war engines.

Elizabeth's eyes dilated, but she said nothing. The General sat beside her, and asked how things
were going on in Boston, asked about his friends, and many trifling details that neither dispatches
nor letters would give him, and that she wondered that he had heart for in the scenes going on about
him. Then he told them many particulars of the siege and especially of the terrible labor
of dragging the heavy guns from the shore into position, interspersing all this narrative of the
life-and-death struggles with amusing anecdotes and bright comments, until she was amazed, and
in listening found that she had gained a better knowledge of him than in years of ordinary acquaintance.
For she could not have realized by that how many-sided the man was, how full of resources, and
how indomitable. She noticed how sympathetically he spoke of the
brave fellows he was leading.

When he said that the hardships of the campaign and the cold of a severer climate than they had
been accustomed to had prostrated numbers of them. Elizabeth saw that it was not only soldiers
that he felt he was losing when they died, but men from his own home and neighborhood and in whom
he had a personal interest. Then as he sat there, she begged him not to think of her if others
needed him but to go.

"This time is at my own disposal," he answered, adding with a smile.

"If the struggle had come, Mistress Royal, I should think of you, no doubt, but I should not
give you a moment's attention. The pointing of the smallest cannon would at the moment be of
more importance than all your affairs. A besieging army can have no cry of'Place aux dames;'therefore I
shall not invite you to stay after to-morrow. I shall even send you home. Or, lest I should hurt your
feelings too much, I will put it this way; I shall send your father home, and he will take
you with him."

Elizabeth laughed; and the conversation went on with its interest increasing, when all at once
Pepperell rose, and held out his hand to her in farewell. "I may not see you again until we
meet in Boston." he said, "but if I can, I will come for a moment
in the morning."

She was surprised at his going away so soon after his assurance of being at leisure but as after
speaking to her father he stepped over the side of the vessel, she perceived the reason for his sudden
departure.

His trained eye had caught what the distance had hidden from her, the figure of a man coming
rapidly toward the shore.

When the General landed, the keel of the little boat he was in grated on the beach at Stephen
Archdale's feet. With a salute to his commander, the latter sprang into it, and before Elizabeth
had recovered her breath, was coming over the ship's side.

The General walked on without turning his head toward the schooner. Nevertheless, it is true that
once he said to himself distinctly. "The Yankee in me does clamor to know what they want of that
fellow."

[Footnote 1: Copyright, 1884, by Frances C. Sparhawk.]***** ROOM
AT THE TOP.

Never you mind the crowd, lad, Or fancy your life won't tell; The
work is the work for a'that To him that doeth it well.

Fancy the world a hill, lad; Look where the millions stop; You'll
find the crowd at the base, lad; There's always room at the top.

Courage and faith and patience, There's space in the old world, yet; The better the chance you
stand, lad, The further along you get. Keep your eye on the goal, lad, Never despair or drop;
Be sure that your path leads upward; There's always room at the top.*****
TWO DAYS WITH THE A. M. C. By Helen M. Winslow.

It is a divine up-reaching instinct in man that forces him to climb the hills of science, unlock the
mysteries of ages, and wrest from the natural forces of earth and air, their well-guarded secrets.
Is it the subtle workings of this desire for the mastery over mechanical
agencies, this prying into Nature's secrets, that leads us out into
the forest primeval and gives zest to mountain climbing?

Fortune is said to favor the brave.

It certainly favored the writer of this article when an opportunity
was offered for a two days'trip with the Appalachian Mountain Club
up Mounts Kearsarge South and Cardigan in New Hampshire.

A few words in regard to this club.

Well known as it has come to be, the objects of its existence are scarcely understood by the majority,
even, of Bostonians. "Oh," said one, referring to this very trip. "They go off somewhere, climb
a mountain, have a jolly time and then come home. It's about the same thing over and over."
Very true. But they do more. According to the by-laws, "the objects of the club are to explore
the mountains of New England and adjacent regions, both for scientific
and artistic purposes, and in general to cultivate an interest in
geographical studies."

In addition they do much to open up new mountain resorts to the public and render the old ones more attractive.
They construct new and accurate maps. They not only collect scattered scientific information
of all kinds but study to make it available. All this they do by combining effort, comparing
notes and interchanging ideas.

They
hold monthly meetings in Boston, publish a magazine, own quite a library, and have established
a reputation second to no similar organization in the country.

The club was established in 1876, and the membership to-day of over six hundred is ample proof
of its popularity. That their researches are really valuable is demonstrated by the fact that
Professor Hitchcock in his geological works quotes them frequently
in support of his own theories.

On the seventeenth of June some twenty members of the Appalachian Mountain Club gathered at an
early hour in the Lowell station at Boston. The party was unusually small for one of their popular
excursions. The majority were young and strong and looked amply fitted
for mountain climbing.

Yet grave men were there whose silver hair told that they had already climbed life's rounded hill and
saw its westering sun; but elderly people are never old, so long as they remain young in heart and
spirits, and pleasant anticipation beamed from the faces of all as
the train steamed away toward the north, and the two days'outing
was fairly begun.

The morning was cloudy and a possible rain storm threatened the plans of the Appalachians. But
the clerk of the weather-bureau evidently understood the necessity
for favorable conditions and issued them accordingly.

Before we had reached Canaan, N. H., the clouds had broken away and the afternoon promised to
be perfect. We had with us a Harvard professor, a topographical surveyor, an amateur photographer,
a Concord philosopher and the champion walker of the club. Apropos of some of the feats of the
latter a story was told of the man who walked forty miles in two hours. This was putting the Appalachians
entirely in the shade, and the story called forth incredulous remarks. Investigation proved, however,
that the Appalachian was not outdone, for the hero of the canard accomplished his feat only by taking
a Champlain steamer at Burlington, Vt., and walking deck the entire
distance to Rouse's Point!

After passing Concord we advanced through wilder regions where the swiftly changing views of clustering
villages and quiet farm-houses alternated with wooded slopes and glimpses of pond or river forming
a series of charming pictures. Nature was at her best and the picturesque hills of New Hampshire
were beautiful in all their June finery. At Penacook the granite monument on Dustin Island was pointed
out. In 1697 Hannah Dustin, with her six weeks'old babe and its nurse,
were captured by Indians at Haverhill and brought to the wigwam camp
on this island.

The babe was killed before her eyes but the mother planned an escape. Awaking the nurse and a
white lad who had been taken prisoner also, she took the Indians'own tomahawks and dispatched the
men and one woman. The brave white women then spiked all the cannon save one and taking the
scalps of their victims with them, they embarked on the Merrimack, then high with the spring floods,
and soon reached Haverhill.

Afterwards she was called to Boston, publicly thanked by the General Court and received a grant
of fifty pounds. Fifty years later the Indians attacked and massacred the settlers in this valley. Today
their descendants, the "Kanucks," cross the country daily in the modern express trains and
find employment in our manufacturing cities.

As we go northward Kearsarge may be seen from the back of the train,
now sinking behind the green hills, now rising abruptly from the horizon
and looming grandly above the surrounding country.

Cardigan does not come into view until we have nearly reached Canaan, whose fair and happy
land was our destination. On alighting from the train, amid the crowd of assembled villagers, a
three seated carriage and two immense Shaker wagons awaited us. The ride of six miles was a welcome
change from the preceding railway travel. Coming from a city where the mercury had reached 96 deg.
in the shade but the day before, the fresh invigorating mountain air was like a breath from
the open doors of Paradise. The stout horses scrambled up the steep hills altogether unmindful
of the wagon-loads of people behind. Perhaps the light hearts and buoyant
spirits of the party lessened their avoirdupois and the tonnage was
actually less than it seemed!

Billowy mountains, charming valleys, winding streams and picturesque bypaths varied our course
over the rural highways. The blackberry bushes were white with bloom and the gardens of the farm-houses
gay with peonies and flower-de-luce.

After passing a small mica quarry, we came suddenly upon a bend of the road where was revealed
a grand sweep of the hazy Green Mountains, and a bewildering view of the New Hampshire hill-country.
Shortly afterward we passed the little box-like white building, which serves as both church and
town house, where the sixty votes of Dorchester are counted. This building constitutes the entire town
of Dorchester. Surely, in view of the stony soil, the inhabitants of the place may be said
to show great wisdom by not living there! By three o'clock we found ourselves at the Mountain
House, twelve hundred feet below the summit of Mount Cardigan. This house is nothing more or
less than a barn, in one end of which an attempt has been made to make a comfortable shelter for the
human family. Here the real work of the day began, although we had already come one hundred
and four miles by train and six by teams. No enterprising railroad man
has set his seal upon this region and we were forced to pursue the
journey by means of the conveyances which nature long ago-- (how long,
thank fortune, we are not obliged to tell)-- at our disposal.

But faint heart ne'er climbed a high mountain and with the aid of stout walking-sticks we easily climbed
the path which led up under sighing spruces and stunted birch, filled with a fine exhilaration.
On each side and under foot was a profusion of wild flowers.

Not June flowers, but those found with us in May, so backward was the season at that altitude.
The red and white trillium, the sarsaparilla, Solomon's seal, "moose-missy" and black-berry bushes,
and, farther up, the blue-berry bushes, all hung full of blossoms, a small Alpine flower of
seven white petals excited much curious comment, for in spite of its resemblance to the wind-flower,
no one seemed able to classify it. Suddenly some six hundred feet below the summit of Cardigan we
came out from the stunted under-growth and found ourselves traversing
the smooth granite mass which constitutes the entire mountain top.

The rock is full of minute particles of mica, which glitter and flash in the sun like "gems of
purest ray serene." A brisk wind was blowing and the rarefied air infused us with new strength to
make the remaining ascent. Some distance from each other, half way up the rounded cone, lie
several huge boulders poised in the bed of what was once a glacial drift. They are of entirely different
character from the rock on Cardigan and without doubt came from much farther north. Whence, and when?
The course of the drift is also very plainly marked from northeast to southwest. From the character
of the rock there is reason to believe that when God said, "Let the
dry land appear," Mount Cardigan was the first to show his head and
came from the very bowels of the earth.

Hitchcock's "Geology of New Hampshire" states that these White Mountains appeared above the face
of the waters as islands at a very early period of the world's history. "It would not be
surprising," he says, "if this archipelago covered as much area as
New Hampshire and Vermont combined."

If these hoary old mountains could tell us their history since creation, how short-lived and insignificant
our own little lives would appear! Professor Hitchcock has also traced the course of glacial drift among
the mountains in a most interesting manner. Glacial action, and marks of scarification are numerous
on the north and west sides of them while they are entirely wanting on the southeastern slopes. In some
instances the general course of the drift from the northwest was
changed by the position of the mountains.

For instance, Ragged Mountain and Kearsarge, South, rise abruptly from comparatively level regions and
from their proximity to each other gave rise to a different motion of the ice, the marks of
which still show its course. The view from this, the oldest of the mountains is scarcely surpassed
by any in the state. To the north, Moosilauke, Chocorua, Lafayette, Mount Washington and the main
peaks of the principal White Mountain group lie sharply outlined.

The Ossipee Mountain toward the east, the Uncanoonacs in the distance, Ragged and Sunapee and
Kearsarge, near neighbors, claimed attention.

In the far western horizon Ascutney, Camel's Hump, Mount Mansfield, and Jay Peak showed hazy and indistinct.
Below us the broken ranges of green hills surged like immense billows
of some Titanic sea.

The fresh verdure of every field and tree made up a landscape seldom equalled in tone of
color, and one which amply repaid the climber. But while some were content with looking, other
true Appalachians remembered the objects of the club. While one took photographs of the surrounding scenery,
far and near, another made profile sketches of the distant peaks; while one attempted a bit
of topographical work, another took measurements by means of a powerful
telescope; and the results of all were put on record for future reference.

A member of the A. M. C. just returned from Florida had been carrying about some strange looking fruit
all day, resembling partly an orange but more nearly a small yellow winter squash. Now, he made
himself popular by dispensing great pieces of grape-fruit among the
thirsty crowd.

It is a necessity of perverse humanity to be thirsty wherever there is no water; and but for
the Florida fruit and the canteens which had been filled at the spring on the mountain side,
we should have suffered. Mount Cardigan is but 3,156 feet above the sea-level; but as it stands
alone the view on all sides is unobstructed and clear. It did not take us an hour to decide that
three thousand feet above the sea, under favorable conditions is quite a sightly place. And
we took the homeward path, feeling that the view was worth a dozen times its cost. Forty minutes
afterward we arrived at the bottom in the condition of the weak-kneed
and trembling saints whom the hymn-book denounces.

An hour of rattling down the hills brought us to Canaan depot again where our special train awaited
us. After a refreshing draught of milk at the Cardigan House, from the piazzas of which a fine view
of the mountain may be had, we were rapidly whirled away toward Patler Place in Andover. This village
was named for the once famous sleight of hand performer Patler. His
house is a cozy, pretty affair, freshly painted and nestled under
great embowering trees.

Close by is his grave. Here, too, barges were in waiting to take us to the Winslow House, four miles distant
on Mount Kearsarge. Before we had left the train the soft rays of the setting sun had changed the hill-sides
to amethyst and deepened the purple gloom of the valleys. Now, as we rode in merry groups of
six or eight, over the country by-ways, the new moon slowly touched every tree and shrub with her
magical wand until the land with its long, weird shadows and silver radiance seemed to belong
to another world than that of day-light. It was nine o'clock when the Winslow House suddenly
revealed itself. An open wood fire burned brightly in the brick fireplace, and in that altitude was
a comfort indeed.

The ample walls seemed to fairly glow with welcome as we entered. Some of us acknowledged that
we were tired; others confessed to sleepiness; but one and all openly declared their hunger. We
had only to look at each other to madly accept the theory that mankind was created of dust;
but we were not long in disposing of a large amount of surplus material. And then the supper bell,--
welcome sound! In view of a cherished reputation for veracity, it
would not be wise to state the exact amount of sirloin steak and
broiled salmon that disappeared from mortal vision that night at ten
o'clock, or to tell how the strawberries and boiled lobster were stored
safely away by the A. M. C. We are sworn to secrecy, and although
the supper hour was not passed over in silence then-- far from it!
it must be now.

No one need suppose that after the experiences of the day the representative A. M. C's. were fatigued
sufficiently to make them willing to retire at half-past ten. Besides, nightmare has its horrors,
and there was that supper!

It is popularly supposed throughout the country, that Bostonians make an annual pilgrimage on
the seventeenth of June to Bunker Hill, and devoutly ascend the monument on their hands and
knees.

Although circumstances had prevented the A. M. C. party from discharging their debt of gratitude to
their ancestors in the prescribed method, they could not forget that it was Bunker Hill Day. One of
our gallant and patriotic brethren had been carrying a mysterious
bundle about and guarding it with jealous care all day.

Now, he produced and displayed-- sky-rockets! They went off, soon after, with great success, surprising
alike the stately mountain behind us and the little country girl
who had come up from the valley below, to see the "Boston folks."

The powerful
telescopes were also set up and observations of the heavens occupied the astronomically inclined for
an hour or two. Thus the moons of Jupiter were made to contribute to the evening's entertainment. The
piano, too, was not the instrument of torture usually found masquerading in hotel-parlors, and
we finally gravitated towards it and made night hideous with our music and college songs until,
to pharaphrase the poet, in to-day already walked to-morrow and it was twelve o'clock, "My friends,"
spoke up one of the gentlemen,
"I am very sorry to say that we shall not be able to ascend Mount Kearsarge
to-morrow." "Why?" exclaimed a dozen anxious voices. "Because," was the
impressive answer, "it is to-day!" In the laugh which followed the party
said good night and retired. The Winslow House was named for Admiral Winslow,
of the war-ship Keasarge, who was present at the opening of the hotel,
and gave the owner a stand of colors. On the parlor table lay a Bible
presented by him, as stated by a gilt inscription on the cover. When
the gallant commander died, a boulder was taken from the side of Mount Kearsarge
for his monument, but the controversy in regard to which of the two
Kearsarges the ship had been named for arose about that time and the
family of the officer finally decided not to use the boulder. It
has been pretty well settled, at last, that the mountain in Merrimack
County, designated by Superintendent Patterson as Kearsarge South,
is the one which gave the famous ship its name. Under the shadow
of it, too, was laid the body of the soldier of the Sixth Massachusetts
Regiment who fell at Baltimore, exclaiming with his dying breath:
"All hail to the Stars and Stripes;" although afterward he was removed
to lie near the soldiers'monument at Lowell.

The ancient spelling of this monument was Carasage, and later,
Kyar Sarga; but as early as 1804 the laws of New Hampshire give it as Kearsage.
The local spelling of Kearsarge North, until a comparatively recent
period, was Kiarsarge.

It is still called Pequaket. The account of them may be interesting, when the people who so long believed
in them will be no more.

We can see they are passing away, but who can decide the interesting question of their origin?
They told me that their nation had always lived in the valley of the Mississippi--that their
wise men had asserted this for ages past. Some who have lived among them, think they crossed
over from Persia in ships--and that they once possessed the knowledge of building large vessels,
though they have now entirely lost it. This idea bears too little probability to command any
confidence. The most general opinion is the often told one, that they are a remnant of God's
ancient and chosen people. Be this as it may, they are "as the setting sun, or as the autumn
leaves trampled upon by powerful riders."

They are receding rapidly, and with feeble resistance, before the giant strides of civilization.
The hunting grounds of a few savages will soon become the haunts of densely peopled, civilized
settlements. We should be better reconciled to this manifest destiny of the aborigines, if
the inroads of civilization were worthy of it; if the last years of these, in some respects,
noble people, were lit up with the hope-inspiring rays of Christianity. We are not to judge
the Heathen; yet universal evidence gives the melancholy fact, that the light of nature does
not lead the soul to God: and without judging of their destiny, we are bound to enlighten their
minds. We know the great Being of whom they are ignorant; and well will it be for them and
for us, in a day that awaits us all, if yet, though late, sadly late--yet not too late, we
so give countenance and aid to the missionary, that the light of revealed truth may cheer the
remaining period of their national and individual, existence.

Will it be said that I am regarding, with partial eye and sentimental romance, but one side
of the Sioux character? Have they no faults, as a people and individually? They are savages--and
that goes far to answer the question. Perhaps the best answer is, the women have faults enough,
and the men twice as many as the women. But if to be a savage is to be cruel, vindictive, ferocious--dare
we say that to be a civilized man necessarily implies freedom from these traits?

Want of truth, and habitual dishonesty in little things, are prevalent traits among the Sioux.
Most of them will take a kitchen spoon or fork, if they have a chance--and they think it fair
thus to return the peculations of the whites. They probably have an idea of making up for the
low price at which their lands have been valued, by maintaining a constant system of petty
thefts--or perhaps they consider kitchen utensils as curiosities, just as the whites do their
mocassins and necklaces of bear's claws. Yes--it must be confessed, however unsentimental,
they almost all steal.

The men think it undignified for them to steal, so they send their wives thus unlawfully to
procure what they want--and wo be to them if they are found out. The husband would shame and
beat his wife for doing what he certainly would have beaten her for refusing to do. As regards
the honesty of the men, I give you the opinion of the husband of Checkered Cloud, who was an
excellent Indian. "Every Sioux;" said he, "will steal if he need, and there be a chance. I find
that the Officer behaves very well.

Possibly he may have abstained for a long time, and here we are three of us whom he certainly
would have preferred. But no, he is satisfied with the girl who is public property. He respects
married women. Think of it, he is the master here. All that he had to do was to say:'I want'and
he might have taken us by force, with the aid of his soldiers.

"The two other women shuddered slightly.

The eyes of pretty Madame Carre-Lamadon sparkled, and she grew a
little pale as if she felt herself already taken by force by the
officer.

The men who were arguing among themselves, came near them.

Loiseau, excited, wanted to deliver up that" miserable woman, "bound
hand and foot, to the enemy.

But the Count, descended from three generations of Ambassadors, and
endowed with the physique of a diplomat, was advocating more tactfulness
and persuasion--"

We should persuade her "-- said he. Then they conspired. The women
drew close to each other; the tone of their voices was lowered, and the
discussion became general, each giving her opinion.

It was most correct, besides.

The ladies specially found delicate euphemisms, charming subtleties of expression to say the most shocking things.
A stranger would have understood nothing, so well were the precautions of language observed. But as the
thin veneer of pudor [*], with which every Society woman is provided, covers only the surface, they
showed their real selves in this wretched adventure, and were as
a matter of fact enjoying themselves immensely, feeling themselves
in their element, handling love with the sensuousness of a gourmand
cook who prepares supper for somebody else.

[*] [Note from Brett: I think this is an excellent, though unintentional, pun." Pudor "is Spanish
for" shame, "but this meaning makes the sentence difficult to read (at best), although it does convey the intent.
I think that the word intended is" powder, "but left the original in case I am wrong] Their gaiety
came back of itself, so amusing after all did the whole incident
seem to them.

The Count found rather risky witticisms, but so cleverly told that they provoked smiles. In his
turn Loiseau fired some broader jokes, which did not shock the listeners; and the thought brutally
expressed by his wife preponderated in every one's mind:" Since it is her business, why should
the girl refuse this man rather than another?

"-- The pretty Mme. Carre-Lamadon seemed even inclined to think that in her place she would refuse this
one less than any other. The blockade was carefully prepared, as if they were besieging a
fortress. Each agreed to play the part assigned to him or her, the arguments to be used, the maneuvers
to be executed. They decided on the plan of attack, the stratagems and the surprise assault to
be attempted in order to compel this living citadel to receive the enemy. Cornudet, however,
remained apart, completely unwilling to participate in this plot.

The minds were so tensely absorbed in this scheme that nobody heard Boule de Suif coming in. But
the Count whispered a gentle:" Hush! "which caused all eyes to look up. There she stood. There
was a sudden silence and a certain embarrassment prevented them first from speaking to her. The
Countess having more than the others the habit of drawing-room duplicities,
questioned her:--"

Was the baptism interesting?-- "The girl, still laboring under her emotion,
told everything, described the faces, the attitudes, and even the
appearance of the Church. Among the E-yanktons, there was a
man so feeble and decrepit from age as to be totally unable to take care of himself; not being
able to walk, he occasioned great trouble. When the band went out hunting, he entreated the
young men to drag him along, that he might not fall a prey to the Chippeways, or to a fate
equally dreaded, cold and starvation. For a time they seemed to pity him, and there were always
those among the hunting party who were willing to render him assistance. At last he fell to
the charge of some young men, who, wearied with carrying him from place to place, told him
they would leave him, but he need not die a lingering death. They gave him a gun, and placed
him on the ground to be shot at, telling him to try and kill one of the young warriors who
were to fire at him; and thus he would have so much more honor to carry with him to the land
of spirits. He knew it was useless to attempt to defend himself. In a few moments he received
his death-wound, and was no longer a burden to himself or to others.  The Sioux have a number
of superstitious notions, which particularly influence the women. Manners withheld Ambrose from
responding to Stephen's hot impatience, while the merchant in the sleek puce-coloured coat discussed
the Flemish wool market with the monk for a good half-hour longer.

By this time the knight's horses were brought into the yard, and the
merchant's men had made ready his palfrey, his pack-horse being already
on the way; the host's son came round with the reckoning, and there
was a general move.

Stephen expected to escape, and hardly could brook the good-natured authority with which Father Shoveller
put Ambrose aside, when he would have discharged their share of the reckoning, and took it
upon himself. "Said I not ye were my guests?" quoth he. "We missed our morning mass, it will
do us no harm to hear Nones in the Minster."

"Sir, we thank you, but we should be on our way," said Ambrose, incited by Stephen's impatient
gestures.

"Tut, tut. Fair and softly, my son, or more haste may be worse speed. Methought ye had somewhat
to show me."

Stephen's youthful independence might chafe, but the habit of submission to authorities made
him obediently follow the monk out at the back entrance of the inn, behind which lay the Minster
yard, the grand western front rising in front of them, and the buildings of Saint Swithun's
Abbey extending far to their right. The hour was nearly noon, and the space was deserted, except
for an old woman sitting at the great western doorway with a basket of rosaries made of nuts and
of snail shells, and a workman or two employed on the bishop's new
reredos.

"Now for thy tokens," said Father Shoveller. "See my young foresters, ye be new to the world. Take
an old man's counsel, and never show, nor speak of such gear in an
hostel. Mine host of the White Hart is an old gossip of mine, and
indifferent honest, but who shall say who might be within earshot?"

Stephen
had a mind to say that he did not see why the meddling monk should
wish to see them at all, and Ambrose looked a little reluctant, but
Father Shoveller said in his good-humoured way, "As you please, young
sirs.'Tis but an old man's wish to see whether he can do aught to
help you, that you be not as lambs among wolves. During this interval one of the squaws, who has had a son, husband,
or brother killed by a warrior of the tribe from which the scalp she holds was taken, will
relate the particulars of his death, and wind up by saying, "Whose scalp have I now on my shoulders?"
At this moment there is a general shout, and the dance again commences. This ceremony continues
sometimes, at intervals, for months; usually during the warm weather. After the dance is done,
the scalp is buried or put up on the scaffold with some of the deceased of the tribe who took
the scalp. So much for the scalp dance--a high religious ceremony, not, as some suppose, a
mere amusement.

The Sacred Feast is given in honor of the sacred medicine, and is always given by medicine-men
or women who are initiated into the mysteries of the medicine dance. The medicine men are invariably
the greatest rascals of the band, yet the utmost respect is shown them. Every one fears the
power of a medicine man. When a medicine man intends giving a feast, he goes or sends to the
persons whom he wishes to invite. When all are assembled, the giver of the feast opens the
medicine bag with some formality. The pipe is lit and smoked by all present; but it is first
offered to the Great Spirit. After the smoking, food is placed in wooden bowls, or other vessels
that visitors may have brought; for it is not a breach of etiquette to bring dishes with you
to the feast. The land occupied by the railways is freehold of the Victoria Company, and leased
by the two lines. In 1863 the lines of the London, Chatham, and Dover Railway were widened to
enable their trains to come into the station independently. The lines of the London, Brighton,
and South Coast Railway are now being extended. The station of the latter is a West End branch,
the headquarters being at London Bridge; but the London, Chatham, and Dover Railway have here
their principal starting-point. The ground between Victoria Station and the river occupies
the site of the old manor of Neyte, which belonged to the Abbey of Westminster until confiscated
by Henry VIII. in 1536. It was a favourite residence of the Abbots, and here also lived John
of Gaunt, and here John, son of Richard, Duke of York, was born in
1448.

In 1592 the manor became a farm and passed with the Ebury Estate into the possession of the Grosvenor
family. The manor-house stood where is now St. George's Row, and in Pepys'time was a popular
pleasure-garden. Between the Willow Walk (Warwick Street) and the river were the Neat House Gardens,
which supplied a large part of London with vegetables. The name lingered until the present century
among the houses on the river-bank, and is still commemorated by Neat House Buildings in Ranelagh
Road. The whole area was low-lying and swampy, and the neighbourhood of Eccleston Square was
occupied by a vast osier bed.

In 1827, however, Cubitt raised the level of the district by depositing
the earth excavated from St. Katharine's Docks, and the present houses
and squares were gradually completed.

The whole district is singularly uninteresting, the streets of good
breadth, and the houses faced with plaster of the type we have seen
in Belgravia.

North of Belgrave Road the streets are occupied by the poorer classes, but the squares and principal
streets in this neighbourhood are tenanted by the wealthy. The southern portion is dully respectable,
and most of the houses are let in lodgings. The eastern end of Warwick Street and Lupus Street
contain the only shops, and those of no great size or importance. The streets, with their principal
buildings, are as follows: The Vauxhall Bridge Road, commenced after
1816, but first mentioned under that name in 1827.

The following terraces were incorporated with it in 1865: Bedford Place (1826), Trellick Place
(1826), York Place (1839), Pembroke Place, Gloucester Place, Windsor Terrace, Shaftesbury Crescent
(1826), Howick Place and Howick Terrace (1826). Wilton Road (1833), with which, in 1890, was incorporated
Wilton Terrace, skirts the east side of Victoria Station.

In it stands the Church of St. John the Evangelist, a chapel of ease to St. Peter's, Eaton Square.
It is a handsome red-brick edifice, built by Blomfield in 1875, and it accommodates about 900. Behind,
in Hudson's Place, are St. Peter's Mission House and parish room. Gillingham Street (1826),
Hindon Street (1826), Berwick Street (1830), and St. Leonard's Street (1830) are mean and uninteresting.
Warwick Street occupies the site of the ancient Willow Walk, a low-lying
footpath between the cuts of the Chelsea Waterworks, where lived the
notorious Aberfield (Slender Billy) and the highwaymen Jerry Abershaw
and Maclean.

It is first mentioned in the rate-books in 1723. Belgrave Road (1830) is a broad, well-built street,
with large houses.

In 1865 Eccleston Terrace, North and South Warwick Terrace, Upper Eccleston
Place, and Grosvenor Terrace, were incorporated with it. Nearly opposite
Eccleston Square is Eccleston Square Chapel (Congregational), in Classical
style, with seats for 1,100.

The railway is crossed by Eccleston Bridge.

Eccleston Square is 4 acres in extent, and is long and narrow, with an enclosed garden, built in
1835. Warwick Square, of 3 acres, is very similar, and was built in 1843. At the end stands St.
Gabriel's Church, built by Cundy in Early English style, and consecrated in 1853. St. George's Road
is a broad street joined to Buckingham Palace Road by Elizabeth Bridge. In Gloucester Street
is the Belgrave Hospital for Children, founded in 1866 by the late
Rev. Brymer Belcher, Vicar of St. Gabriel's, 1853-85.

The objects of this charitable institution are: 1. The medical and surgical treatment of the children
of the poor. 2. The promotion of the study of children's diseases. 3.

The training of pupil nurses. Clarendon Street (1858) absorbed Warwick
Place in 1870.

Stanley Street (1851) was renamed Alderney Street in 1879, Winchester Street 1852, Cumberland Street
1852. Ebury Bridge is the oldest of the bridges over the railway
and canal.

It
was known in early days as Chelsea, and afterwards as Waterworks
Bridge, a wooden structure.

A turnpike existed here until 1825.

At the south end stood Jenny's Whim, a celebrated tavern and pleasure-garden,
perhaps named from the name of the proprietress and the fantastic
way it was laid out.

It was in the height of its popularity about 1750, and came to an end circa 1804. When the railway
was widened in 1863 all vestiges of it were swept away.

St. George's Row was built as Monster Row circa 1785, and renamed in 1833. Here was the site of
the manor-house of Neyte.

The Monster public-house commemorates the old Monster tavern and
garden, the name being probably a corruption of monastery.

At the corner of Warwick Street are the Pimlico Rooms, containing a hall for
entertainments, etc., and occupied by the Ebury Mission and Pimlico
day-school for boys, girls, and infants.

Adjoining the railway is a double row of industrial dwellings, built by the trustees of the Peabody
fund under the name of Peabody's Buildings.

Westmoreland Street (1852) contains the Pimlico chapel for United Free Methodists. Lupus Street
(1842) is named after Hugh Lupus, Earl of Chester, an ancestor of
the Duke of Westminster.

     It contains a hospital for women and
     children. At the eastern end is St.
     George's Square (1850), a long narrow
     space reaching
     
     to the river with an enclosed garden
     in the centre. The houses are large.
     At No. 9 Sir J. Barnby d. 1896. At the
     north end is St. Saviour's Church, built in 1864 from designs by
Cundy in a Decorated Gothic style.

It has sittings for 1,834, and was restored in 1882. To the east are Pulford Street (1848) and Aylesford
Street, in which is St. Saviour's Mission House, built by the Duke
of Westminster at a cost of£ 4,000.

It serves also for parochial meetings. Here also are the works of
the Equitable Gas Company, established 1830.

In Claverton Street (1852) is a Methodist Wesleyan chapel, in Classical
style, with seats for 1,000.

In Glasgow Terrace (1851), formerly Caledonia Street, are St. Saviour's
and St. Gabriel's National Schools.

     
      This neighbourhood contains many works and
      offices, the largest of which is Taylor's
      repository for storing property. Along
      the river runs the Grosvenor Road, part
     of the Thames Embankment. The
      
      houses built on and near it were generally
      known in the last century as the Neat
      Houses.

Terraces with various names-- Albion Terrace, Pier Terrace, Erin
Place (1826), Thames Parade (1827), Thames Bank (1828)-- were incorporated
with the road in recent years.

Facing the river is All Saints'Church, a chapel of ease to St. Gabriel's, by Cundy, built circa 1870
to replace a mission church; opposite it is the Pimlico Pier for river steamboats. Adjoining St.
George's Square is the Army Clothing Factory, established in 1857
in the Vauxhall Bridge Road as an experiment to provide labour for
women.

The present establishment was opened in 1859, and has since been largely increased, occupying
a space of about 7 acres.

The east block is the Government store, the west the factory, the centre of which is occupied by a
glass-roofed hall, three stories high, surrounded by spacious galleries. PADDINGTON BY G. E.
MITTON Derivation. The origin of the word Paddington is very obscure. Mr. Edwards in his "Names
of Places" gives "Pad, padi, A. S. equivalent to Paeda, King of Mercia; hence Paddington, the
town of Paeda's descendants." Paddington is not mentioned in Domesday Book. The boundaries
of the borough of Paddington are not quite coterminous with those of the parish. It is true that
the alteration is not great. On the east Edgware Road and Maida Vale still mark the limits with a line as
straight as that drawn by a ruler. On the south Bayswater Road serves a similar purpose as far
as the Serpentine, where the boundary dips to include part of the Gardens;
these are the same as the old boundaries.

The present line, however, returns northward up the Broad Walk to Bayswater Road instead of up
Kensington Palace Gardens. From Bayswater Road it follows Ossington Street, Chepstow Place, Westbourne
Grove, Ledbury Road, St. Luke's Road, and crosses the railway lines
northward to Kensal Road, having from the Bayswater Road been either
a little within or without the parish line, doubtless so drawn for
convenience'sake, as it follows streets and not an arbitrary division.

From Kensal Hall the line follows the canal to Kensal Green Cemetery,
and, going northward, returns east along Kilburn Lane, thus including
a bit of ground previously owned by Chelsea.

From
Kilburn Lane the northern boundary dips down between Salisbury Crescent
and Malvern Road, and up again by Kilburn Park Road; in this last
part it remains unaltered.

The Westbourne stream formerly ran right through the district.

It rose in Hampstead, flowed through Kilburn, and followed the trend of the present Cambridge
and Shirland Roads, though keeping on the east side of the place
where these streets now stand.

It crossed
the Harrow Road, and ran on the west side of the present Gloucester
Terrace until it reached the Uxbridge Road.

It fed the Serpentine, and, crossing the road at Knightsbridge, formed
the eastern boundary of the Chelsea parish.

A stream somewhat similar in course was the Tyburn, which also rose at Hampstead, but flowed through
the parish of Marylebone, the ancient Tyburnia. This was considerably to the east of Paddington,
and has been treated in the Marylebone section. Oxford Street was the ancient Tyburn Road, and the
gallows stood opposite the Marble Arch. In Rocque's map (1748) only the Westbourne is marked,
but we see Tyburn Turnpike at the junction of the Edgware Road, and near by "the stone where
soldiers are shot." These things do not belong properly to Paddington, but are too intimately
connected with it to be passed over without comment. The Edgware Road itself is the old Watling Street,
which was continued at first down Park Lane to the ford at Westminster, and which afterwards, when
London Bridge was built, followed the course of Oxford Street and Holborn to the Bridge. Edgware was
the name of the first town through which it passed after the forests of Middlesex. Newcourt says
"the parish of Edgeware or Edgeworth consisteth of one main street... ten miles north-westward from
London." In Rocque's 1748 map the district is nearly all open ground;
part of the Harrow Road is marked, and there are a few houses on
it near the Edgware Road.

The Green Lane, now Warwick Road, runs into it from the north.

The Pest House is marked prominently about where the chapel stands in Craven Terrace in the south
of the parish. Below is marked "Bayswatering." Queen's Road is Westbourne
Green Lane, and the green itself is very nearly where Royal Oak Station
now stands.

About it there are a few scattered houses. History. "King Edgar gave
the Manor of Paddington to Westminster Abbey;" this Lysons affirms
without any comment.

Dart varies the tradition slightly by asserting that it was Dunstan and
not the King who presented the manor to the Abbey.

But later writers have thrown discredit on both statements. Paddington is not mentioned in the
Conqueror's Survey, which points to the fact that it was not at that date a separate manor.
Robins, on the authority of the Rev. Richard Widmore, for many years librarian to the Dean
and Chapter of Westminster, boldly states that the documents supposed
to prove this gift are undoubted forgeries.

Newcourt says, "the Manor and Rectory of Paddington (which of old did belong to the monastery of
Westminster)," etc. The first authentic mention of the manor is in
a document "in the thirty-first year of Henry II.," drawn up between
"Walter Abbot of Westminster and Richard and William de Padinton,
brothers, touching the entire tenement which they held in Padinton
of the Church of Westminster," whereby they gave up their hold on
the land in consideration of a sum of money.

This Abbot Walter gave, we are told, the manor of Paddington for the celebration of the anniversary
of the day on which he died. For this festival "the manor of Paddington is put wholly into the
hands of the Almoner... and whatsoever shall be the final overplus shall be expended charitably
in distribution to the poor. On the day of celebration the Almoner is to find for the Convent fine
manchets, cakes, crumpets, cracknells, and wafers, and a gallon of wine for each friar, with three
good pittances, or doles, with good ale in abundance at every table, and in the presence of the
whole brotherhood: in the same manner upon other occasions the cellarer
is bound to find beer at the usual feasts or anniversaries on the
great tankard of twenty-five quarts."

He shall also provide most honourably and in all abundance for the guests that dine in the refectory,
bread, wine, beer, and two dishes out of the kitchen besides the usual allowance. And for the
guests of higher rank who sit at the upper table under the bell, with the president, ample
provision shall be made as well as for the Convent: and cheese shall be served on that day to
both. "Agreement shall likewise be made with the cook for vessels, utensils, and other necessaries,
and not less than two shillings shall be given over above for his
own gratification and indulgence.

The Almoner is likewise to find for all comers in general, from the
hour when the memorial of the anniversary is read to the end of the
following day, meat, drink, hay and provender of all sorts in abundance:
and no one either on foot or horseback during that time shall be denied
admittance at the gate."

There are further provisions for allowances to the nuns at "Kilborne," and 300 poor who were to
have a "loaf of mixed corn" and a "pottle of ale." The above is taken from Dr. Vincent's translation
of the MS. He was Dean of Westminster in 1804. Mr. Loftie says: "Westbourne was probably at a very
early period separated from the original manor of the Church of St.
Peter.... Of Paddington we only know that it was separated from the
manor of Westminster at some time between Domesday Survey and the
middle of the twelfth century.

It was restored to its original owners... by the above mentioned agreement between Abbot Walter and the
brothers Padinton." Mr. Loftie says also that Westbourne and Paddington are named together
in 1222 among the possessions of St. Margaret's. He is unable to
ascertain how the manor of Westbourne came to belong to the Abbot
of Westminster.

In the reign of the second Edward several inquisitions of land were
made which are quoted by Robins in his "Paddington, Past and Present."
In one we find mentioned "that Walter de Wenlock [a second Abbot Walter]
had acquired to himself and his house... twelve acres of land in Padinton
of William de Padinton, and three and a half acres of Hugh de Bakere
of Eye, and thirteen acres of land in Westbourn of John le Taillour,
and eleven acres of land there of Matilda Arnold, and two acres of
land there of Juliana Baysevolle, after the publication of the statute
edited concerning the nonplacing of lands in mortmain, and not before.

And they (the commissioners) say that it is not to the damage nor prejudice of the Lord the King, nor
of others, if the king grant to the Prior and Convent of Westminster
that the Abbots of that place for the time being may recover and hold
the aforesaid messuages and land to them and their successors for
ever."

But the Abbot had to pay the King a small yearly sum, and cause certain
services of reaping and ploughing to be performed for him, which showed
that he held the land in some sense subject to the Crown.

In Henry VII.'s reign his mother, the Countess of Richmond, bought certain lands in Kensington,
Willesden, Paddington, and Westbourne. She left the greater part of
her possessions to Westminster, so that the Abbey lands in this vicinity
must have been increased.

The manor acquired by the Countess seems to have consisted chiefly
of two farms-- Notting Barns in Kensington, and "Westborne" in Paddington;
the former is fully dealt with in the section devoted to Kensington.
Besides the lands left to the Abbey, she bequeathed part of her possessions
to the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. In the account of the
Church property which fell into Henry VIII.'s hands at the dissolution
of the monasteries we find mentioned "Westborne."

     King Henry also held other lands here,
     which he had obtained by exchange or purchase.
     He made Paddington a part of
     the endowment of the new See of Westminster.
     After the abolition of that See Edward VI.
     gave "the mannor and rectory of Paddington"
     to Dr. Nicholas Ridley, then
     Bishop of London, "and his successors for ever" (Newcourt). Westbourne
       remained in the possession of
     the Dean and Chapter of Westminster; thus the two manors parted company.

       

Paddington was confiscated during the Commonwealth, but was claimed by
Bishop Sheldon at the Restoration. It was restored to him, and he let
it to his nephew, Sir Joseph Sheldon, knight, and Daniel Sheldon.

It was held by the Sheldon family until 1740, when it was let by Gibson,
the Bishop of London, to Sir John Frederick, in whose family it remained
for many generations. Perambulations. A survey of London in 1827 shows us
very few streets in the quarter to the south of Praed Street and east of
Westbourne Terrace and Street.

Connaught Square and Connaught Place are marked, and the curious rectangular piece of ground of about
5 acres belonging to St. George's, Hanover Square. This was bought by St. George's Vestry in 1764,
when the land was surrounded by fields, and was suitable for a cemetery. Among others buried there
was Laurence Sterne, whose body is said to have been exhumed by body-snatchers. But this ground
does not belong to Paddington. In the above-mentioned survey Cambridge Street is Sovereign Street,
and the oval piece with Southwick Crescent at one end is Polygon
Crescent, a name now only retained in Polygon Mews.

Hyde Park Gardens is marked "Intended Crescent," but except in the triangular corner, now bounded by
Cambridge and Albion Streets, there are few houses.

Cambridge Street and Oxford and Cambridge Terraces and Squares preserve in their names the memory of
the gift of the Countess of Richmond to those universities. In Southwick Crescent stands St. John's
Church, built originally in 1826, and then known as Connaught Chapel. In 1832 a district was allotted
to the chapel. In 1844 a portion of this was transferred to the new church of St. James. Four years
later St. John's obtained a portion of the chapelry district, and in 1859 the district itself was
made into a new parish. Part of the new parish was transferred to St. Michael and All Angels
in 1864. The church is in a late Gothic style. It was completely renovated during 1895, when
the present reredos was added. In Titchborne Road are St. John's Schools. In Junction Mews, off
Sale Street, is a boatmen's chapel. In Market Street is one of the Dudley Stuart night refuges for the destitute.
And to the north, in Praed Street, is a small Baptist tabernacle with
painted front, and further westward the church and schools of St. Michael
and All Angels. The church was built in 1862; it is in the Decorated
style, and the architect was Mr. Hawkins. Its predecessor was a chapel
of ease to St. John's, but in 1859 the district was made separate.

The organ is by Hill. In Norfolk Square we find All Saints'Church. This
has been lately rebuilt, having been burnt down on May 31, 1894. The old
church was consecrated on All Saints'Day, 1847, and its architecture
is described as having been "Gothic of the eleventh century."

The first architect was Mr. Clutton. The building was restored and the chancel added in 1873 from
Mr. J. Brooks's designs. The new church is striking, being of red brick with terra-cotta mouldings
over the doors and windows. The architect was Ralph Nevill, F. S. A., F. R. I. B. A. The old
walls that remained have been engrafted into the new building. The organ is by Hill. The floor of the
church is of mosaic, and stalls, screens, and nave seats are of Burmese
wood, called padouk.

The church is lit by electric light. In the 1827 map a spot at the extreme end of Stanhope Street,
just where it touches Westbourne Street, is marked Archery Ground,
and a little to the north, at the corner of Bathhurst Street, are
"Bagnigge Wells," probably named after the more famous Bagnigge Wells,
near Gray's Inn Road.

In Maitland's "History of London" we are told that in the year 1439 the Abbot of Westminster
granted to the Mayor and citizens of London one head of water containing
twenty-six perches in length and one in breadth, together with all
its springs in the manor of Paddington, for which two peppercorns
were to be paid annually.

In these wells of water we have the origin of the latter part of the word Bayswater. Some writers
affirm that the name originated in a public-house kept by a Mr. Bays,
where horses were given water, hence the more ancient rendering "Bayswatering."

Lysons says of it, "The springs at this place lie near the surface, and the water is very fine."
He adds, "The conduit at Bayswater belongs to the City of London,
and, being conveyed by brick drains, supplies the houses in and about
Bond Street, which stand upon the City lands."

Robins quotes an Act (49 George III.) in which "Byard's Watering Place" is mentioned in Tyburn. In
George III.'s reign the mayor and citizens were empowered by an Act
of Parliament to see their water rights at Bayswater, which was done
for the sum of£ 2,500.

Robins says that a Juliana Baysbolle held land in Westbourne, and conjectures that the former
part of her name may have descended to the place.

"Our young men burst in upon them when they were sleeping; they struck them with their tomahawks,
they tore their scalps reeking with blood from their heads.

"We heard our warriors at the village as they returned from their war party; we knew by their
joyful cries that they had avenged their friends. One by one they entered the village, bearing
twenty scalps of the enemy.

"Only three of the Dahcotahs had fallen. But who were the three? My sons, and he who was as
dear as a son to me, the lover of my child. I fled from their cries of triumph--I longed to
plunge the knife into my own heart.

"I have lived on. But sorrow and cold and hunger have bowed my spirit; and my limbs are not
as strong and active as they were in my youth. Neither can I work with porcupine as I used
to--for age and tears have dimmed my sight. I bring you venison and fish, will you not give
me clothes to protect me from the winter's cold?"

Ah! Checkered Cloud--he was a prophet who named you. Though the cloud has varied, now passing
away, now returning blacker than before--though the cheering light of the sun has for a moment
dispelled the gloom-- 'twas but for a moment! for it was sure to break in terrors over your
head. Your name is your history, your life has been a checkered cloud! But the storm of the
day has yielded to the influence of the setting sun. The thunder has ceased to roll, the wind
has died away, and the golden streaks that bound the horizon promise a brighter morning. So
with Checkered Cloud, the storm and strife of the earth have ceased; the "battle of life" is
fought, and she has conquered. For she hopes to meet the beloved of earth in the heaven of
the Dahcotahs.

And who will say that our heaven will not be hers? The God of the Dahcotahs is ours, though
they, less happy than we, have not been taught to know him. Christians! are you without blame?
Have you thought of the privations, the wants of those who once owned your country, and would
own it still but for the strong hand? Have you remembered that their souls are dear in His
sight, who suffered for them, as well as for you? Have you given bright gold that their children
might be educated and redeemed from their slavery of soul? Checkered Cloud will die as she
has lived, a believer in the religion of the Dahcotahs. The traditions of her tribe are written
on her heart. She worships a spirit in every forest tree, or every running stream. The features
of the favored Israelite are hers; she is perchance a daughter of their lost tribe. When she
was young, she would have listened to the missionary as he told her of Gethsemane and Calvary.
But age yields not like youth to new impressions; the one looks to the future, the other clings
to the past. See! she has put by her pipe and is going, but she is coming oft again to talk
to me of her people, that I may tell to my friends the bravery of the Dahcotah warrior, and
the beauty of the maiden! the legends of their rivers and sacred isles--the traditions of their
rocks and hills!

If I cannot, in recounting the wild stories of this prophetess of the forest, give her own
striking words, I shall at least be faithful to the spirit of her recitals. I shall let Indian
life speak for itself; these true pictures of its course will tell its whole simple story better
than any labored exposition of mine. Here we may see, not the red man of the novel or the drama,
but the red man as he appears to himself, and to those who live with him. His better characteristics
will be found quite as numerous as ought to be expected under the circumstances; his faults
and his sufferings should appeal to the hearts of those who hold the means of his salvation.
No intelligent citizen of these United States can without blame forget the aborigines of his
country. Their wrongs cry to heaven; their souls will be required of us. To view them as brutes
is an insult to Him who made them and us. May this little work do something towards exciting
an interest in a single tribe out of the many whose only hope is in the mercy of the white man!

RED EARTH;

OR,

MOCKA-DOOTA-WIN.

"Good Road" is one of the Dahcotah chiefs--he is fifty years old and has two wives, but these
two have given a deal of trouble; although the chief probably thinks it of no importance whether
his two wives fight all the time or not, so that they obey his orders. For what would be a
calamity in domestic life to us, is an every day affair among the Dahcotahs.

Good Road's village is situated on the banks of the St. Peter's about seven miles from Fort
Snelling. And like other Indian villages it abounds in variety more than anything else. In
the teepee the farthest from us, right on the edge of the shore, there are three young men
carousing. One is inclined to go to sleep, but the other two will not let him; their spirits
are raised and excited by what has made him stupid. Who would suppose they were human beings?
See their bloodshot eyes; hear their fiendish laugh and horrid yells; probably before the revel
is closed, one of the friends will have buried his knife in the other's heart.

We will pass on to the next teepee. It was then that the tears of sorrow mingled with the exultations
of victory which soon were to be shouted along the line of every highway and by-way, from hamlet
to village, from village to town, and from town to city, throughout
the land.

Perry wrote to Governor Brooks of Massachusetts a letter condoling with him on the fall of his
gallant son in action; for while Perry's brow was laurelled with the wreath of victory, he
did not forget that there were mourners weeping for brave hearts
which in the fight had been forever put to rest.

The name of Perry was now made a household word from the great Northern Lakes to the Gulf of
Mexico, from the Atlantic Coast to the impenetrated wilderness of the West, often repeated
at the baptismal font; and a nation's gratitude was soon laid at his feet. As humane in victory
as he had been brave in action, his generous kindness won the admiration of Barclay, and his
dying comrades showered upon him their blessings and remembered him
in their final prayers.

Prayers
of gratitude to that Almighty Power which had given victory to the
American arms went up from every fireside throughout the Northwest;
and mothers pressed their children more closely to their breasts as
they thought themselves to be henceforth secure from the scalping-knife
of Indian barbarity, and that the savage war-whoop would no more break
the sleep of the cradle.

At night-fall many of the dead with all due solemnity were tenderly committed to the deep. The wounded
had all been visited and their wants attended to; the worn and weary now sought repose, and a
solemn oppressive silence soon pervaded the fleet, save here and there a sound of distress from the
wounded.

The Captain now retired for reflection, for his mind and heart were too full for rest. He
then thought of his young devoted wife whose prayers he believed had been his shield in battle; that
his work was yet incomplete while the British had an army on the borders of the Lake, or in Upper
Canada,-- how he could best aid General Harrison's army; and then
resolved on the work of the morrow; when, soothed by reflection, his
tired nature gave out, and he, too, sank into a fitful slumber.

The mind of Barclay, relieved of present responsibility, evolved other less pressing but more
pensive thoughts. He thought not of himself or his bleeding wound, for he had bled before for
his country, when he earned his stars and made his fame secure at Trafalgar; but as the sun went
down that night he thought that no more in the evening twilight would the mariners of England
standing under the cross of St. George, on that great inland water, sing their national song, "Brittania
rules the waves;" no more the echoes of that stirring air rolling over the silver surface of the
Lake to its islands and shores would arouse the sturdy dwellers there to join in glad unison
in those lofty strains which everywhere, the world over, melt into one every true and loyal
British heart. He then was moved by the sadder thought, that on that night the sun of British
power which had hitherto dominated the great Northern Lakes of America
had gone down forever.

Perry's available vessels were now taken to transport General Harrison's army across the Lake,
and up the Detroit river. The Lawrence, as soon as she was put into condition took on board the
wounded of both fleets, and under the command of the gallant but wounded Yarnell carried them
to Erie. The other vessels were repaired and fitted for other duties,
or were to return to Erie.

Perry
accompanied General Harrison as a volunteer aid, and participated
and bore an honorable part in the battle of the Thames, as he had
done in the battle of Fort George, under Chauncey, before the engagement
on the Lake. For she has an open, good humored countenance; the very reverse
of that of the first wife, whose vinegar aspect would frighten away an army of small children.

After "Old Bets" returned, Good Road could not conceal his satisfaction. His wife's trip had
evidently improved her good looks, for the chief thought she was the handsomest squaw in the
village. Her children were always taunting the sons of the first wife, and so it went on, until
at last Good Road said he would stand it no longer; he told his oldest wife to go--that he
would support her no longer. And for her children, he told them the prairies were large; there
were deer and other game--in short, he disinherited them--cut them off with their last meal.

For the discarded wife, life had now but one hope. The only star that shone in the blackness
of her heaven, was the undefined prospect of seeing her rival's blood flow. She would greatly
have preferred taking her life herself; and as she left the wigwam of the chief, she grasped
the handle of her knife--how quick her heart beat! it might be now or never.

But there were too many around to protect Old Bets. The time would come--she would watch for
her--she would tear her heart from her yet.

The sons of the old hag did not leave the village; they would keep a watch on their father
and his Chippeway wife. They would not easily yield their right to the chieftainship. While
they hunted, and smoked, and played at cards, they were ever on the look-out for revenge.

CHAPTER II.

"Red Earth" sits by the door of her father's teepee; while the village is alive with cheerfulness,
she does not join in any of the amusements going on, but seems to be occupied with what is
passing in her own mind.

Occasionally she throws a pebble from the shore far into the river, and the copper-colored
children spring after it, as if the water were their own element, striving to get it before
it sinks from their view.

Had she been attentive to what is passing around her, she would not have kept her seat, for
"Shining Iron," the son of Good Road's second wife, approaches her; and she loves him too little
to talk with him when it can be avoided.

"Why are you not helping the women to make the teepee, Red Earth?" said the warrior. "They
are laughing while they sew the buffalo-skin together, and you are sitting silent and alone.
Why is it so? Are you thinking of 'Fiery Wind?'"

"There are enough women to make the teepee," replied Red Earth, "and I sit alone because I
choose to do so. But if I am thinking of 'Fiery Wind' I do right--he is a great warrior!"

"Tell me if you love Fiery Wind?" said the young man, while his eyes flashed fire, and the
veins in his temple swelled almost to bursting.

"I do not love you," said the girl, "and that is enough. And you need never think I will become
your wife; your spells cannot make me love you. [Footnote: The Sioux have great faith in spells.
It is a long time before an Indian lover will take a refusal from the woman he has chosen for
a wife.] Where are Fiery Wind and his relations? driven from the wigwam of the Chief by you
and your Chippeway mother. But they do not fear you--neither do I!"

And Red Earth looked calmly at the angry face of her lover. For Shining Iron did love her,
and he had loved her long. He had loaded her with presents, which she always refused; he had
related his honors, his brave acts to her, but she turned a deaf ear to his words. He promised
her he would always have venison in her teepee, and that he never would take another wife;
she was the only woman he could ever love. But he might as well have talked to the winds. He afterwards
found his way to Fife, and subsequently to the Braes of Mar. On the 19th of August, 1715, he despatched
letters to the principal Jacobites, among whom was Lord Seaforth,
inviting them to attend a grand hunting match at Braemar on the 27th
of the same month.

This was a ruse meant to cover his intention to raise the standard
of rebellion and that the Jacobites were let into the secret is evident
from the fact that as early as the 6th of August those of them in
Edinburgh and its neighbourhood were aware of his intentions to come
to Scotland.

Under pretence of attending this grand match, a considerable number of noblemen and gentlemen arrived
at Aboyne at the appointed time. ["Rae," p 189; "Annals of King George," pp. 15-16.] Mar delivered
a stirring address, in which he expressed regret for his past conduct in favouring the Union,
and, now that his eyes were opened, promising to do all in his power to retrieve the past and
help to make his countrymen again a free people. He produced a commission from James appointing
him Lieutenant-General and Commander of all the Jacobite forces in
Scotland, and at the same time informed the meeting that he was supplied
with money, and that an arrangement had been made by which he would
be able to pay regularly any forces that might be raised, so that
no gentleman who with his followers should join his standard would
be put to any expense, and that the country would be entirely relieved
of the cost of conducting the war; after which the meeting unanimously
resolved to take up arms for the purpose of establishing the Chevalier
on the Scottish throne.

They then took the oath of fidelity to Mar as the representative of James VIII. and to each other,
and separated, each going home after promising to raise his vassals and to be in readiness
to join the Earl whenever summoned to do so. They had scarcely arrived at their respective destinations
when they were called upon to meet him at Aboyne on the 3d of September following, where, with
only sixty followers, Mar proclaimed the Chevalier at Castletown in Braemar, after which he
proceeded to Kirkmichael, and on the 6th of September, raised his
standard in presence of a force of 2000, mostly consisting of cavalry.

       When in course of erection, the ball on the top of the flag-staff
fell off.

This was regarded by the Highlanders as a bad omen, and it cast a gloom over the proceedings
of the day.

Meanwhile Colonel Sir Hector Munro, who bad served as Captain in the
Earl of Orkney's Regiment with reputation in the wars of Queen Anne,
raised his followers, who, along with a body of Rosses, numbered about
600 men.

With these, in November, 1715, he encamped at Alness and on the 6th of October following he
was joined by the Earl of Sutherland, accompanied by his son, Lord Strathnaver, and by Lord Reay,
with an additional force of 600, in the interest of the Whig Government, and to cover their own
districts and check the movements of the Western clans in effecting a junction with the Earl of
Mar, whom Earl William and Sir Donald Macdonald had publicly espoused, as already stated, at the
pretended hunting match in Braemar. The meeting at Alness was instrumental in keeping Seaforth
in the North.

If the Earl and his mother's clans had advanced a month earlier the Duke of Argyll would not have
dared to advance against Mar's united forces, who might have pushed an army across the Forth
sufficient to have paralyzed any exertion that might have been made
to preserve a shadow of the Government.

It may be said that if Dundee had lived to hold the commission of Mar, such a junction would
not have been necessary, which amounts to no more than saying that
the life of Dundee would have been tantamount to a restoration of
the Stuarts Mar was not trained in camp, nor did he possess the military
genius of Dundee.

Had Montrose a moiety of his force things would have been otherwise. Mar, trusting to Seaforth's
reinforcement, was inactive, and Seaforth was for a time kept in by the collocation of Sutherland's
levies, till he was joined by 700 Macdonalds and detachments from other clans, amounting, with his
own followers, to 3000 men, with which he promptly attacked the Earl of Sutherland, who fled
with his mixed army precipitately to Bonar-Bridge, where they dispersed. A party of Grants on
their way to join them, on being informed of Sutherland's retreat, thought it prudent to retrace
their steps.

Seaforth, thus relieved, levied considerable fines on Munro's territories, which were fully retaliated
for during his absence with the Jacobite army, to join which he now set out; and Sir John Mackenzie
of Coul, whom he had ordered to occupy Inverness, was, after a gallant
resistance, forced by Lord Lovat, at the head of a mixed body of Frasers
and Grants, to retire with his garrison to Ross-shire.

"Whether he followed his chief to Perth does not appear; but on Seaforth's arrival that Mar seems
for the first time to have resolved on the passage of the Firth-a movement which led to the
Battle of Sheriffmuir-is evident and conclusive as to the different features given to the whole
campaign by the Whig camp at Alness, however creditable to the noble Earl and his mother's
confederates.

But it is not our present province to enter on a military review of the conduct of either army preceding
this consequential conflict, or to decide to which party the victory, claimed by both parties,
properly belonged suffice it to say that above 3000 of Seaforth's men formed a considerable
part of the second line, and seem from the general account on that subject to have done their duty."
[Bennetsfield MS.] A great many of Seaforth's followers were slain, among whom were four Highlanders
who appear to have signally distinguished themselves. They were John Mackenzie of Hilton, who
commanded a company of the Mackenzies, John Mackenzie of Applecross, John Mac Rae of Conchra,
and John Murchison of Achtertyre. Their prowess on the field had been commemorated by one of their
followers, John MacRae, who escaped and returned home, in an excellent Gaelie poem, known as
"Latha Blar an t-Siorra," the "Day of Sheriffmuir." The fate of these renowned warriors was
keenly regretted by their Highland countrymen, and they are still remembered and distinguished
amongst them as "Ceithear Ianan na h-Alba," or The four Johns of
Scotland.

During the preceding troubles Ellandonnan Castle got into the hands of the King's troops, but
shortly before Sheriffmuir it was again secured by the following clever stratagem: A neighbouring
tenant applied to the Governor for some of the garrison to cut his corn, as he feared from
the appearance of the sky and the croaking of ravens that a heavy storm was impending, and that
nothing but a sudden separation of his crop from the ground could save his family from starvation.
The Governor readily yielded to his solicitations, and sent the garrison of Government soldiers
then in the castle to his aid, who, on their return, discovered the
ruse too late for the Kintail men were by this time reaping the spoils,
and had possession of the castle.

"The oldest inhabitant of the parish remembers to have seen the Kintail men under arms, dancing
on the leaden roof, just as they were setting out for the Battle
of Sheriffmuir, where this resolute band was cut to pieces."

["Old Statistical Account of Kintail," 1792.] Inverness continued
meanwhile in possession of the Mackenzies, under command of the Governor,
Sir John Mackenzie of Coul, and George Mackenzie of Gruinard.

Macdonald of Keppoch
was on the march to support Sir John at Inverness, and Lord Lovat, learning
this, gathered his men together, and on the 7th of November decided
to throw himself across the river Ness and place his forces directly
between Keppoch and the Governor.

Sir John, on discovering Lovat's movement, resolved to make a sally out of the garrison and place
the enemy between him and the advancing Keppoch, where he could attack him with advantage,
but Macdonald became alarmed and returned home through Glen-Urquhart,
whereupon Lord Lovat marched straight upon Inverness, and took up
a position about a mile to the west of the town.

The authorities were summoned to send out the garrison and the Governor, or the town would be burnt
and the inhabitants put to the sword. Preparations were made for the attack, but Sir John Mackenzie, considering
that any further defence was hopeless, on the 10th of November collected together all the boats
he could find and at high water safely effected his escape from the town, when Lovat marched in without
opposition. His Lordship advised the Earl of Sutherland that he had secured possession of Inverness,
and on the 15th of November the latter, leaving Colonel Robert Munro of Fowlis as Governor of Inverness,
went with his followers, accompanied by Lord Lovat with some of his men, to Brahan Castle, and compelled
the responsible men of the Clan Mackenzie who were not in the South with the Earl of Seaforth
to come under an obligation for their peaceable behaviour, and to return the arms previously taken from
the Munros by Lord Seaforth at Alness; to release the prisoners in their
possession, and promise not to assist Lord Seaforth directly or indirectly
in his efforts against the Government; that they would grant to the
Earl of Sutherland any sum of money he might require from them upon
due notice for the use of the Government; and, finally, that Brahan Castle,
the principal residence of the Earl of Seaforth, should be turned
into a garrison for King George. Seaforth returned from Sheriffmuir, and
again collected his men near Brahan, but the Earl of Sutherland with
a large number of his own men, Lord Reay's, the Munros, Rosses, Culloden's
men, and the Frasers, marched to meet him and encamped at Beauly,
within a few miles of Mackenzie's camp, and prepared to give him battle,
which, when my Lord Seaforth saw, he thought it convenient to capitulate,
own the King's authority, disperse his men, and propose the mediation
of these Government friends for his pardon.

Upon his submission the King was graciously pleased to send down orders that upon giving up his arms and
coming into Inverness, he might expect his pardon; yet upon the Pretender's
Anvil at Perth and my Lord Huntly's suggestions to him that now was
the time for them to appear for their King and country, and that what
honour they lost at Dunblane might yet be regained; but while he thus insinuated
to my Lord Seaforth, he privately found that my Lord Seaforth had by being
an early suitor for the King's pardon, by promising to lay down his
arms, and owning the King's authority, claimed in a great measure
to an assurance of his life and fortune, which he thought proper for
himself to purchase at the rate of disappointing Seaforth, with hopes
of standing by the good old cause, till Seaforth, with that vain hope,
lost the King's favour that was promised him; which Huntly embraced
by taking the very first opportunity of deserting the Chevalier's
cause, and surrendering himself upon terms made with him of safety
to his life and fortune.

This sounded so sweet to him that he sleeped so secure as never to dream of any preservation for
a great many good gentlemen that made choice to stand by him and serve under him that many
other worthy nobles who would die or banish rather that not show their personal bravery,
and all other friendly offices to their adherents. "[Lord Lovat's Account of the taking of Inverness."
Patten's Rebellion. "] In February, 1716, hopeless of attaining his object, the unfortunate son of
James II. left Scotland, the land of his forefathers, never to visit it again, and Earl William
followed him to the common resort of the exiled Jacobites of the time. On the 7th of the
following May an Act of attainder was passed against the Earl and the other chiefs of the Jacobite
party. Their estates were forfeited, though practically in many cases, and especially in that
of Seaforth, it was found extremely difficult to carry the forfeiture
into effect. The Master of Sinclair is responsible for the base and unfounded
allegation that the Earl of Seaforth, the Marquis of Huntly, and
other Jacobites, were in treaty with the Government to deliver up
the Chevalier to the Duke of Argyll, that they might procure better
terms for themselves than they could otherwise expect.

This odious charge, which is not corroborated by any other writer, must be looked upon as highly
improbable." [Fullarton's "Highland Clans," p 471.] If any proof of the untruthfulness of this
charge be required it will be found in the fact that the Earl returned afterwards to the Island
of Lewis, and re-embodied his vassals there under an experienced officer, Campbell of Ormundel, who
had served with distinction in the Russian army; and it was not until
a large Government force was sent over against him, which he found
it impossible successfully to oppose, that he recrossed to the mainland
and escaped to France.

Among the "gentlemen prisoners" taken to the Castle of Stirling on the day following the Battle of Sheriffmuir
the following are found in a list published in Patten's Rebellion-Kenneth Mackenzie, nephew
to Sir Alexander Mackenzie of Coul Joh Maclean, adjutant to Colonel Mackenzie's Regiment Colonel Mackenzie
of Kildin, Captain of Fairburn's Regiment; Hugh MacRae, Donald MacRae, and Christopher MacRae. The war
declared against Spain in December, 1718, again revived the hopes of the Jacobites, who, in accordance
with a stipulation between the British Government and the Duke of Orleans, then Regent of France,
had previously, with the Chevalier and the Duke of Ormont at their head,
been ordered out of France. They repaired to Madrid, where they held
conferences with Cardinal Alberoni, and concerted an invasion of Great
Britain.

On the 10th of March, 1719, a fleet, consisting of ten men-of-war and twenty-one transports, having
on board five thousand men, a large quantity of ammunition, and thirty thousand muskets, sailed
from Cadiz under the command of the Duke of Ormond, with instructions to join the rest of the expedition
at Corunna, and to make a descent at once upon England, Scotland, and Ireland. The sorry fate of
this expedition is well known. Only two frigates reached their destination, the rest having
been dispersed and disabled off Cape Finisterre by a violent storm which lasted
about twelve days.

They entered Lochalsh about the middle of May; effected a landing in Kintail and were there joined
by a body of Seaforth's vassals, and a party of Macgregors under command of the famous Rob Roy; but the
other Jacobite chiefs, remembering their previous disappointments
and misfortunes, stood aloof until the whole of Ormond's forces should
arrive. General Wightman, who was stationed at Inverness, hearing of
their arrival, marched to meet them with 2000 Dutch troops and a
detachment of the garrison at Inverness.

Seaforth's forces and their allies took possession of the pass of Glenshiel, but on the approach
of the Government forces they retired to the pass of Strachell, which they decided to defend
at all hazards. They were there engaged by General Wightman, who,
after a smart skirmish of about three hours duration, and after inflicting
some loss upon the Jacobites, drove them from one eminence to another,
till night came on, when the Highlanders, their chief having been
seriously wounded, and giving up all hopes of a successful resistance,
retired during the night to the mountains, carrying Seaforth along
with them and the Spaniards next morning surrendered themselves prisoners
of war.

[The Spaniards kept their powder magazine and ball behind the manse, but after the battle of
Glenshiel they set fire to it lest it should fall into the hands of the King's troops. These balls
are still gathered up by sportsmen, and are found in great abundance upon the glebe.-"Old
Statistical Account of Kintail."] Seaforth, Marischal, and Tullibardine, with the other principal
officers, managed to effect their escape to the Western Isles, from which they afterwards found
their way to the Continent. Rob Roy was placed in ambush with the view of attacking the Royal troops
in the rear and it is said of him that having more zeal than prudence he attacked the rear of
the enemy's column before they had become engaged in front his small party was routed, and the
intention of placing the King's troops between two fires was thus defeated. ["New Statistical Account
of Glenshiel," by the Rev. John Macrae, who gives a minute description of the scenes of the battle,
and informs us that in constructing the parliamentary road which runs through the Glen a few years
before he wrote, several bullets and pieces of musket barrels were found and the green mounds
which covered the graves of the slain, and the ruins of a rude breast-work
which the Highlanders constructed on the crest of the hill to cover
their position still marked the scene of the conflict.] General Wightman
sent a detachment to Ellandonnan Castle, which he ordered to be blown
up and demolished.

General Wightman advanced from the Highland Capital by Loch-Ness and a recent writer pertinently
asks, "Why he was allowed to pass by such a route without opposition? It is alleged that Marischal
and Tullibardine had interrupted the movements of the invaders by ill timed altercations about
command, but we are provoked to observe that some extraordinary interposition seems evident
to frustrate every scheme towards forwarding the cause of the ill-fated
house of Stuart. Had the Chevalier St George arrived earlier, as
he might have done; had William Earl of Seaforth joined the Earl
of Mar some time before, as he ought to have done; and strengthened as Mar would
then have been, had he boldly advanced on Stirling, as it appears
he would have done, Argyll's force would have been annihilated, and
James VIII. proclaimed at the Cross of Edinburgh.

Well did the brave Highlanders indignantly demand,'What did you call us to arms for? Was
it to run away? What did our own King come for? Was it to see us butchered by hangmen?'There was
a fatuity that accompanied all their undertakings which neutralised intrepidity, devotedness,
and bravery which the annals of no other people can exhibit, and paltry jealousies which stultified
exertions, which, independently of political results, astonished Europe at large." [Bennetsfield MS.]
An Act of Parliament for disarming the Highlanders was passed in
1716, but in some cases to very little purpose for some of the most
disaffected clans were better armed than ever, although by the Act
the collectors of taxes were allowed to pay for the arms given in,
in no case were any delivered except those which were broken, old,
and unfit for use, and these were valued at prices far above what
they were really worth.

Not only so, but a lively trade in old arms was carried on with Holland and other Continental
countries, and these arms were sold to the commissioners as Highland weapons, at exorbitant prices.
General Wade afterwards found in the possession of the Highlanders a large quantity of arms which
they obtained from the Spaniards who took part in the battle of Glenshiel, and he computed that
the Highlanders opposed to the Government possessed at this time no less than five or six thousand
arms of various kinds. Wade arrived in Inverness on the 10th of August, 1723, and in virtue of
another Act passed the same year, he was empowered to proceed to
the Highlands and to summon the clans to deliver up their arms, and
to carry several other recommendations of his own into effect. On his
arrival he immediately proceeded to business, went to Brahan Castle,
and called on the Mackenzies to deliver up their weapons. He took those
presented to him on the word of Murchison, factor on the estate and
by the representation of Sir John Mackenzie Lord Tarbat, Sir Kenneth
Mackenzie of Cromarty, and Sir Colin Mackenzie of Coul, at the head
of a large deputation of the clan, he compromised his more rigid instructions
and accepted a selection of worn-out and worthless arms, and at the
same time promised that if the clan exhibited a willing disposition
to comply with the orders of the Government he would use his influence
in the next Parliament to procure a remission for their chief and
his followers; and we find, that "through his means, and the action
of other minions of Court (Tarbat was then in power), Seaforth received
a simple pardon by letters patent in 1726, for himself and his clan,
whose submission was recognised in the sham form of delivering their
arms, a matter of the less consequence as few of that generation were
to have an opportunity of wielding them again in the same cause."

General Wade made a report to the Government, from which we take the following extract: "The Laird
of the Mackenzies, and other chiefs of the clans and tribes, tenants to the late Earl of Seaforth,
came to me in a body, to the number of about fifty, and assured me
that both they and their followers were ready to pay a dutiful obedience
to your Majesty's commands, by a peaceable surrender of their arms; and
if your Majesty would be graciously pleased to procure them an indemnity
for the rents that had been misplaced for the time past, they would
for the future become faithful subjects to your Majesty, and pay them
to your Majesty's receiver for the use of the public.

I assured them of your Majesty's gracious intentions towards them, and that they might rely on your
Majesty's bounty and clemency, provided they would merit it by their future good conduct and
peaceable behaviour; that I had your Majesty's commands to send the first summons to the country they
inhabited; which would soon give them an opportunity of showing
the sincerity of their promises, and of having the merit to set the
example to the rest of the Highlands, who in their turns were to be
summoned to deliver up their arms, pursuant to the Disarming Act;
that they might choose the place they themselves thought most convenient
to surrender their arms; and that I would answer that neither their
persons nor their property should be molested by your Majesty's troops.
 They are all gone, and the village looks desolate and forsaken.

CHAPTER III.

The party encamped about twenty miles from the village. The women plant the poles of their
teepees firmly in the ground and cover them with a buffalo skin. A fire is soon made in the
centre and the corn put on to boil. Their bread is kneaded and put in the ashes to bake, but
flour is not very plenty among them.

The next day parties were out in every direction; tracks of deer were seen in the snow, and
the hunters followed them up. The beautiful animal flies in terror from the death which comes
surer and swifter than her own light footsteps. The hunter's knife is soon upon her, and while
warmth and even life are left, the skin is drawn off.

After the fatigues of the day comes the long and pleasant evening. A bright fire burned in
the wigwam of the chief, and many of the Indians were smoking around it, but Wenona was sad,
and she took but little part in the laughter and merriment of the others.

Red Cloud boasted of his bravery and his deeds of valor; even the old men listened to him with
respect, for they knew that his name was a terror to his enemies. But Wenona turned from him!
she hated to hear the sound of his voice.

The old men talked of the mighty giant of the Dahcotahs, he who needed not to take his gun
to kill the game he wanted; the glance of his eye would strike with death the deer, the buffalo,
or even the bear.

The song, the jest, the legend, by turns occupied them until they separated to sleep. But as
the warriors stepped into the open air, why does the light of the moon fall upon faces pale
with terror? "See!" said the chief, "how flash the mysterious lights! there is danger near,
some dreadful calamity is threatening us."

"We will shoot at them," said Red Cloud; "we will destroy their power." And the Indians discharged
their guns in quick succession towards the northern horizon, which was brilliantly illuminated
with the Aurora Borealis; thus hoping to ward off coming danger.

The brother and sister were left alone at the door of the teepee. The stern warrior's looks
expressed superstitious terror, while the maiden's face was calm and fearless. "Do you not
fear the power of the woman who sits in the north, Wenona? she shows those flashes of light
to tell us of coming evil."

"What should I fear," said Wenona; "I, who will soon join my mother, my father, my sisters,
in the land of spirits? Listen to my words, my brother: there are but two of us; strife and
disease have laid low the brave, the good, the beautiful; we are the last of our family; you
will soon be alone.

"Before the leaves fell from the trees, as I sat on the banks of the Mississippi, I saw the
fairy of the water. The moon was rising, but it was not yet bright enough for me to see her
figure distinctly. But I knew her voice; I had often heard it in my dreams. 'Wenona,' she said,
(and the waves were still that they might hear her words), 'Wenona, the lands of the Dahcotah
are green and beautiful--but there are fairer prairies than those on earth. In that bright
country the forest trees are ever green, and the waves of the river flow on unchilled by the
breath of winter. You will not long be with the children of the earth. Even now your sisters
are calling you, and your mother is telling them that a few more months will bring you to their
side!'

"The words were true, my brother, but I knew not that your harshness would hasten my going.
You say that I shall marry Red Cloud; sooner will I plunge my knife into my heart; sooner shall
the waves of the Mississippi roll over me. Brother, you will soon be alone!"

"Speak not such words, my sister," said the chief; "it shall be as you will. I have not promised
Red Cloud. I thought you would be happy if you were his wife, and you shall not be forced to
marry him. But why should you think of death? you saw our braves as they shot at the lights
in the north. They have frightened them away. Look! they flash no more. Go in, and sleep, and
to-morrow I will tell Red Cloud that you love him not."

And the cloudless moon shone on a happy face, and the bright stars, seemed more bright as Wenona
gazed upon them; but as she turned to enter the wigwam, one star was seen falling in the heavens,
and the light that followed it was lost in the brightness of the others. The chief agent in the
business was Donald Murchison, descendant of a line of faithful adherents of the "High Chief
of Kintail."

       Some of the later generations of the family had been entrusted with
the keeping of Ellandonnan Castle, a stronghold dear to the modern
artist as a picturesque ruin, but formerly of serious importance as
commanding a central point from which radiate Loch Alsh and Loch Duich,
in the midst of the best part of the Mackenzie country.

Donald was a man worthy of a more prominent place in his country's annals than he has yet attained;
he acted under a sense of right which, though unfortunately defiant of Acts of Parliament, was still
a very pure sense of right; and in the remarkable actions which he
performed he looked solely to the good of those towards whom he had
a feeling of duty.

A more disinterested hero-and he was one-neverlived.

When Lord Seaforth brought his clan to fight for King James in 1715, Donald Murchison and an
elder brother, John, accompanied him as field officers of the regiment-Donald as Lieutenant-Colonel, and
John as Major. The late Sir Roderick Impey Murchison, the distinguished Geologist, great-grandson of
John, possessed a large ivory and silver "mill," which once contained the commission sent from France
to Donald, as Colonel, bearing the inscription: "James Rex: forward and spare not." John fell at
Sheriffmuir, in the prime of life; Donald returning with the remains
of the clan, was entrusted by the banished Earl with the management
or estates no longer legally but still virtually his.

And for this task Donald was in various respects well qualified,
for, strange to say, the son or the castellan of Ellandonnan-the Sheriffmuir
Colonel-had been "bred a writer" in Edinburgh, and was as expert at
the business of a factor or estate-agent as in wielding the claymore.
[For a short time before the insurrection, he had acted as factor
to Sir John Preston of Preston Hall, in Mid-Lothian, then also a forfeited
estate, but of minor value.] In bold and avowed insubordination to
the Government of George the First, Mackenzie's tenants continued
for ten years to pay their rents to Donald Murchison, setting at nought
all fear of ever being compelled to repeat the payment to the commissioners.

In 1720 his Majesty's representatives made a movement for asserting their claims upon the property.
In William Ross of Easterfearn and Robert Ross, a bailie of Tain,
they found two men bold enough to undertake the duty of stewardship
in their behalf over the Seaforth property, the estates of Grant or
Glenmoriston, and or Chisholm of Strathglass.

Little, however, was done that year beyond sending out notices to
the tenants, and preparing for more strenuous measures for next year.
The stir they made only produced excitement, not dismay. Some of the duine-uasals
from about Lochcarron, coming down with their cattle to the south-country
fairs, were heard to declare that the two factors would never get
anything but leaden coin from the Seaforth tenantry.

Donald went over the whole country showing a letter he had got from the Earl, encouraging the people
to stand out at the same time telling them that the old Countess was about to come north with a
factory for the estate, when she would allow as paid for any rents which
they might hand to him. The very first use to be made of this money
was to bring both the old and the young Countesses home immediately
to Brahan Castle, where they were to live as they used to do.

Part of the funds thus acquired, Murchison used in keeping on foot a party of some sixty armed Highlanders,
who, in virtue of his commission as colonel, he proposed to employ in resisting
any troops of George the First which might be sent to Kintail.

Nor did he wait to be attacked, but in June, 1720, hearing of a party of excisemen passing near Dingwall
with a large quantity of aqua vitae, he fell upon them and rescued their prize. The collector of
the district reported this transaction to the Board of Excise, but no notice was taken of it.
In February, 1721, the two factors sent officers of their own into the western districts, to
assure the tenants of good usage, if they would make a peaceable submission but the men were seized,
robbed of their papers, money, and arms, and quietly sent across the Frith of Attadale, though only
after giving their solemn assurance that they would never attempt
to renew their mission.

Resenting this procedure the two factors caused a constable to take a military party from Bernera
Barracks, Glenelg, into Lochalsh, and, if possible, capture those who had been guilty. They
made a stealthy night-march, and took two men; but the alarm was
given, the two men escaped, and began to fire down upon their captors
from a hillside; then they set fire to the bothy as a signal, and
such a coronach went over all Kintail and Lochalsh as made the soldiers
glad to beat a quick retreat.

After some further proceedings, all ineffectual, the two factors were enabled, on the 13th day
of September, to set forth from Inverness with a party of thirty soldiers and some armed servants of their
own, with the design of enforcing submission to their claims. Let it be remembered that in those
days there were no roads in the Highlands, nothing but a few horse-tracks
along the principal lines in the country, where not the slightest
effort had ever been made to smooth away the natural difficulties
of the ground.

In two days the factors reached Invermoriston; but here they were
stopped for three days, waiting for their heavy luggage, which was
storm-stayed in Castle Urquhart, and there nearly taken in a night
attack by a partisan warrior bearing the name of Evan Roy Macgillivray.
The tenantry of Glenmoriston at first fled with their cattle, but
afterwards a number of them came in and made the appearance of submission.

The party then moved on towards Strathglass, while Evan Roy respectfully followed, to pick
up any man or piece of baggage that might be left behind. At Erchless Castle, and at Invercannich,
seats of the Chisholm, they held courts, and received the submission of a number of the tenants,
whom, however, they subsequently found to be "very deceitful." There
were now forty or fifty miles of the wildest Highland country before
them, where they had reason to believe they should meet groups of
murderous Camerons and Glengarry Macdonalds, and also encounter the
redoubtable Donald Murchison himself, with his guard of Mackenzies,
unless their military force should be sufficiently strong to render
all such opposition hopeless.

An arrangement having been made that they should receive an addition
of fifty soldiers from Bernera, with whom to pass through the most
difficult part of their journey, it seemed likely that they would
appear too strong for resistance and, indeed, intelligence was already
coming to them, that "the people of Kintail, being a judicious opulent
people, would not expose themselves to the punishments of law," and
that the Camerons were absolutely determined to give no further provocation
to the Government.

Thus assured, they set out in cheerful mood along the valley of Strathglass, and, soon after passing a
place called Knockfin, they were reinforced by Lieutenant Brymer with the expected fifty men
from Bernera. There were now about a hundred well armed men in the
invading body.

They spent the next day (Sunday) together in rest, to gather strength for the ensuing day's
march of about thirty arduous miles, by which they hoped to reach
Kintail. At four in the morning of Monday, the 2d of October, the party
went forward, the Bernera men first, and the factors in the rear.

They were as yet far from the height of the country, and from its more difficult passes; but they
soon found that all the flattering tales of non-resistance were groundless, and that the Kintail
men had come a good way out from that district in order to defend it. The truth was, that Donald
Murchison had assembled not only his stated band of Mackenzies, but a levy of the Lewis men
under Seaforth's cousin, Mackenzie of Kildun; also an auxiliary corps
of Camerons, Glengarry and Glenmoriston men, and some of those very
Strathglass men who had been making appearances of submission.

Altogether he had, if the factors were rightly informed, three hundred and fifty men with
long Spanish firelocks, under his command, and all posted in the way most likely to give them an advantage
over the invading force. The rear-guard, with the factors, had scarcely
gone a mile when they received a platoon of seven shots from a rising
ground near them to the right, which, however, had only the effect
of piercing a soldier's hat.

The Bernera company left the party at eight o'clock, as they were passing Lochanachlee, and from
this time is heard of no more; how it made its way out of the country
does not appear. The remainder still advancing, Easterfearn, as he rode a
little before his men, had eight shots levelled at him from a rude
breast-work near by, and was wounded in two places, but was able
to appear as if he had not been touched.

Then calling out some Highlanders in his service, he desired them to
go before the soldiers and do their best, according to their own mode
of warfare, to clear the ground of such lurking parties, so that
the troops might advance in safety. They performed this service pretty
effectually, skirmishing as they went on, and the main body advanced safely
about six miles. They were here arrived at a place called Ath-na-Mullach,
where the waters, descending from the Cralich and the lofty mountains of Kintail,
issue eastwards through a narrow gorge into Loch Affric.

It was a place remarkably well adapted for the purpose of a resisting party. A rocky boss, called Torr-a-Bheathaich,
then densely covered with birch, closes up the glen as with a gate. The black mountain stream,
"spear-deep," sweeps round it. A narrow path wound up the rock, admitting of passengers in single
file. Here lay Murchison with the best of his people, while inferior
adherents were ready to make demonstrations at a little distance. As the
invading party approached, they received a platoon from a wood on
the left, but nevertheless went on.

When, however, they were all engaged in toiling up the pass, forty men concealed in the heather close
by fired with deadly effect, inflicting a mortal wound on Walter Ross, Easterfearn's son while Bailie
Ross's son was wounded by a bullet which swept across his breast. The Bailie called to his son to retire,
and the order was obeyed; but the two wounded youths and Bailie Ross's
servant were taken prisoners, and carried up the hill, where they
were quickly divested of clothes, arms, money, and papers.

Easterfearn's son died next morning. The troops faced the ambuscade manfully and are said
to have given their fire thrice, and to have beaten the Highlanders from the bushes near them; but,
observing at this juncture several parties of the enemy on the neighbouring heights, and being
informed of a party of sixty in their rear, Easterfearn deemed it
best to temporise.

He thereupon sent forward a messenger to ask who they were that opposed the King's troops, and
what they wanted. The answer was that, in the first place, they required to have Ross of Easterfearn
delivered up to them.

This was pointedly refused; but it was at length arranged that Easterfearn should go forward and
converse with the leader of the opposing party. The meeting took place at Beul-ath-na-Mullach, and
Easterfearn found himself confronted with Donald Murchison. It ended with Easterfearn giving
up his papers, and covenanting, under a penalty of five hundred pounds, not to officiate in
his factory any more; after which he gladly departed homewards with
his associates, under favour of a guard of Donald's men to conduct
them safely past the sixty men who were lurking in the rear.

It was alleged afterwards that the commander was much blamed by his own people for letting
the factors off with their lives and baggage, particularly by the Camerons, who had been five days
at their post with hardly anything to eat; and Murchison only pacified them by sending them
a good supply of meat and drink. He had in reality given a very effective check to the two
gentlemen-factors, to one of whom he imparted in conversation that any scheme of Government
stewartship in Kintail was hopeless, for he and sixteen others had
sworn that, if any person calling himself a factor came there, they
would take his life, whether at kirk or at market, and deem it a meritorious
action, though they should be cut to pieces for it the next minute.

A bloody grave for young Easterfearn in Beauly Cathedral concluded this abortive attempt to take
the Seaforth estates within the scope of a law sanctioned by statesmen, but against which the
natural feelings of nearly a whole people revolted. A second attempt was then made to obtain possession
of the forfeited Seaforth estates for the Government. It was calculated
that what the two factors and their attendants with a small military
force had failed to accomplish in the preceding October, when they
were beaten back with fatal loss at Ath-na-Mullach, might now be effected
by a military party alone, if they should make their approach through
a less critical passage.

A hundred and sixty of Colonel Kirk's regiment left Inverness under Captain M'Neill, who had at one
time been Commander of the Highland Watch. They proceeded by Dingwall, Strathgarve, and Loch Carron, an
easier, though a longer way. Donald Murchison, nothing daunted, got together his followers, and
advanced to the top of Mam Attadale, by a high pass from Loch Carron to the bead of Loch Long,
separating Lochalsh from Kintail. Here a gallant relative, Kenneth Murchison,
and a few others, volunteered to go forward and plant themselves in ambush
in the defiles of the Coille Bhan (White Wood), while the bulk of the party
should remain where they were.

It would appear that this ambush party consisted of thirteen men, all peculiarly well armed.
On approaching this dangerous place the Captain of the invading party went forward with a sergeant
and eighteen men to clear the wood, while the main body came on slowly in the rear. At a place
called Altanbadubh, in the Coille Bhan, he encountered Kenneth and his associates, whose fire
wounded himself severely, killed one of his grenadiers, and wounded
several others of the party. He persisted in advancing, and attacking
the handful of natives with sufficient resolution they slowly withdrew,
as unable to resist; but the Captain now obtained intelligence that
a large body of Mackenzies was posted in the mountain pass of Attadale.

It seemed to him as if there was a design to draw him into a fatal ambuscade. His own wounded condition
probably warned him that a better opportunity might occur afterwards. He turned his forces about, and
made the best of his way back to Inverness. Kenneth Murchison quickly
rejoined Colonel Donald on Mam Attadale, with the cheering intelligence
that one salvo of thirteen guns had repelled the hundred and sixty
red-coats.

After this we hear of no more attempts to comprise the Seaforth property. Strange as it may
seem, Donald Murchison, two years after this a second time resisting the Government troops, came down
to Edinburgh with eight hundred pounds of the Earl's rents, that he might get the money sent abroad
for Seaforth's use. He remained a fortnight in the city unmolested. He on this occasion appeared
in the garb of a Lowland gentleman; he mingled with old acquaintances, "doers" and writers; and appeared
at the Cross amongst the crowd of gentlemen who assembled there every
day at noon. Scores knew all about his doings at Ath-na-Mullach and
the Coille Bhan; but thousands might have known without the chance
of one of them betraying him to the Government.

General Wade, in his report to the King in 1725, stated that the Seaforth tenants, formerly
reputed the richest of any in the Highlands, were now become poor, by neglecting their business,
and applying themselves to the use of arms. "The rents" he says, "continue to be collected by
one Donald Murchison, a servant of the late Earl's, who annually
remits or carries the same to his master in France. The tenants, when
in a condition, are said to have sent him free gifts in proportion
to their circumstances, but are now a year and a-half in arrear of
rent.

The receipts he gives to the tenants are as deputy-factor to the Commissioners
of the Forfeited Estates, which pretended power he extorted from the
factor (appointed by the said Commissioners to collect those rents for the
use of the public), whom he attacked with above four hundred armed
men, as he was going to enter upon the said estate, having with him
a party of thirty of your Majesty's troops.

The last year this Murchison marched in a public manner to Edinburgh, to remit eight hundred
pounds to France for his master's use, and remained fourteen days
there unmolested.

I cannot omit observing to your Majesty that this national tenderness the subjects of North
Britain have one for the other is a great encouragement for rebels and attainted persons to return
home from their banishment." Donald went again to Edinburgh about the end of August, 1725. On
the 2d of September, George Lockhart of Carnwath, writing from that city to the Chevalier St
George, states, amongst other information regarding his party in Scotland, that Daniel Murchison
(as he calls him) "is come to Edinburgh, on his way to France"-doubtless charged with a sum of rents
for Seaforth. "He's been in quest of me, and I of him," says Lockhart, "these two days, and missed
each other; but in a day or two he's to be at my country house, where
I'll get time to talk fully with him.

In the meantime, I know from one that saw him that he has taken up and secured
all the arms of value on Seaforth's estate, which he thought better
than to trust them to the care and prudence of the several owners;
and the other chieftains, I hear, have done the same."

The Commissioners on the forfeited estates concluded their final
report in 1725, by stating that they had not sold the estate of William,
Earl of Seaforth, "not having been able to obtain possession and consequently
to give the same to a purchaser."

[In
a Whig poem on the Highland Roads, written in 1737, Donald is characteristically spoken of as a
sort of cateran, while, in reality, as every generous person can now well understand, he was a
high-minded gentleman. The verses, nevertheless, as well as the appended
note, are curious-Keppoch, Rob Roy, and Daniel Murchison, Cadets are
servants to some chief of clan, From theft and robberies scarce did
ever cease, Yet'scaped the halter each, and died in peace.

This last his exiled master's rents collected, Nor unto king or law would be subjected. Though
veteran troops upon the confines lay, Sufficient to make lord and tribe a prey, Yet passes
strong through which no roads were cut, Safe-guarded Seaforth's clan,
each in his hu', Thus in strongholds the rogue securely lay, Neither
could they by force be driven away, Till his attainted lord and chief
of late By ways and means repurchased his estate.

"Donald Murchison, a kinsman and servant to the Earl of Seaforth, bred a writer, a man of small
stature, but full of spirit and resolution, fought at Dunblane against the Government, anno 1715, but
continued thereafter to collect Seaforth's rents for his lord's use,
and had some bickerings with the King's forces on that account, till,
about five years ago, the Government was so tender as to allow Seaforth
to repurchase his estate, when the said Murchison had a principal
band in striking the bargain for his master.

How he fell under Seaforth's displeasure, and died thereafter, is not to the purpose here to mention."]
The end of Donald's career can scarcely now be passed over in a slighting manner. The story
is most painful.

The Seaforth of that day-very unlike some of his successors-proved unworthy of the devotion which this
heroic man had shown to him. When his lordship took possession of the
estates which Donald had in a manner preserved for him, he discountenanced
and neglected him.

Murchison's noble spirit pined away under this treatment, and he
died in the very prime of his days of a broken heart.

He lies in a remote little church-yard in the parish of Urray, where his worthy relative, the late
Sir Roderick Impey Murchison, raised a suitable monument over his grave. The traditional account
of Donald Murchison, communicated to Chambers by the late Finlay Macdonald, Druidaig, states
that the heroic commissioner had been promised a handsome reward
for his services; but Seaforth proved ungrateful.

"He was
offered only a small farm called Bun-Da-Loch, which pays at this day to Mr Matheson, the proprietor,
no more than L60 a year; or another place opposite to Inverinate
House, of about the same value. Many of the Dahcotahs, now living near Fort Snelling, say that they have lived
on the earth before in some region far distant, that they died, and for a time their spirits
wandered through the world seeking the most beautiful and delightful country to live in, and
that after examining all parts of, the earth they fixed upon the country of the Dahcotahs.

In fact, dreams, spells and superstitious fears, constitute a large part of the belief of the
Dahcotahs. But of all their superstitious notions the most curious is the one which occasions
the dance called Ho-saw-kah-u-tap-pe, or Fish dance, where the fish is eaten raw.

Some days since, an Indian who lives at Shah-co-pee's village dreamed of seeing a cormorant,
a bird which feeds on fish. He was very much alarmed, and directed his friend to go out and
catch a fish, and to bring the first one he caught to him.

The Indian did so, and the fish, which was a large pike, was painted with blue clay. Preparations
were immediately made to celebrate the Fish dance, in order to ward off any danger of which
the dream might have been the omen.

A circle was formed of brush, on one side of which the Indians pitched a wigwam. The war implements
were then brought inside the ring, and a pole stuck up in the centre, with the raw fish, painted
blue, hung upon it.

The men then enter the ring, almost naked; their bodies painted black, excepting the breast
and arms, which are varied in color according to the fancy of each individual.

Inside the ring is a bush for each dancer; in each bush a nest, made to resemble a cormorant's
nest; and outside the ring is an Indian metamorphosed for the occasion into a wolf--that is,
he has the skin of a wolf drawn over him, and hoops fixed to his hands to enable him to run
easier on all fours; and in order to sustain the character which he has assumed, he remains
outside, lurking about for food.

All being ready, the medicine men inside the wigwam commence beating a drum and singing. This
is the signal for all the cormorants (Indians), inside the ring, to commence quacking and dancing
and using their arms in imitation of wings, keeping up a continual flapping. Thus for some
time they dance up to and around the fish--when the bravest among them will snap at the fish,
and if he have good teeth will probably bite off a piece, if not, he will slip his hold and
flap off again.

Another will try his luck at this delicious food, and so they continue, until they have made
a beginning in the way of eating the fish. Then each cormorant flaps up and takes a bite, and
then flaps off to his nest, in which the piece of fish is concealed, for fear the wolves may
get it.

After a while, the wolf is seen emerging from his retreat, painted so hideously as to frighten
away the Indian children. The cormorants perceive the approach of the wolf, and a general quacking
and flapping takes place, each one rushing to his nest to secure his food.

This food each cormorant seizes and tries to swallow, flapping his wings and stretching out
his neck as a young bird will when fed by its mother.

After the most strenuous exertions they succeed in swallowing the raw fish. While this is going
on, the wolf seizes the opportunity to make a snap at the remainder of the fish, seizes it
with his teeth, and makes his way out of the ring, as fast as he can, on all fours. The whole
of the fish, bones and all, must be swallowed; not the smallest portion of it can be left,
and the fish must only be touched by the mouth--never with the hands. This dance is performed
by the men alone--their war implements must be sacred from the touch of women.

Such scenes are witnessed every day at the Dahcotah villages. The missionary sighs as he sees
how determined is their belief in such a religion. Is it not a source of rejoicing to be the
means of turning one fellow-creature from a faith like this?

A few years ago and every Dahcotah woman reverenced the fish-dance as holy and sacred--even
too sacred for her to take a part in it. She believed the medicine women could foretell future
events; and, with an injustice hardly to be accounted for, she would tell you it was lawful
to beat a girl as much as you chose, but a sin to strike a boy!

She gloried in dancing the scalp dance--aye, even exulted at the idea of taking the life of
an enemy herself.

But there are instances in which these things are all laid aside beneath the light of Christianity;
instances in which the poor Dahcotah woman sees the folly, the wickedness of her former faith;
blesses God who inclined the missionary to leave his home and take up his abode in the country
of the savage; and sings to the praise of God in her own tongue as she sits by the door of
her wigwam. She smiles as she tells you that her "face is dark, but that she hopes her heart
has been changed; and that she will one day sing in heaven, where the voices of the white people
and of the converted Dahcotahs, will mingle in a song of love to Him 'who died for the whole
world.'" 

Then a fancy History was propounded, originating in the imagination
of those ignorant millionaires, and according to which Roman matrons
used to go to Capua and lull Hannibal in their arms, and with him,
his lieutenants and the phalanxes of his mercenaries.

They quoted all the women who had stopped conquerors, converted their
bodies into battlefields, a means of conquest, a weapon, who by their
heroic caresses had vanquished frightful and execrated beings, and
had sacrificed their chastity to vengeance and patriotic devotion.

They even spoke, in veiled terms, of that English lady of noble family, who had allowed herself
to be inoculated with a horrid and contagious disease, which she
wanted to communicate to Bonaparte, and how the latter had been miraculously
saved by a sudden faintness during the fatal appointment.

And all this was told without overstepping the bounds of propriety
and moderation, with her and there a studied manifestation of enthusiasm
intended to provoke emulation.

In the end one would have been led to believe that the only mission of woman on this earth was a
perpetual sacrifice of her person, a continual offering of herself
to the caprices of enemy soldiers.

The
two nuns did not seem to hear this conversation, lost as they were
in their own deep thoughts.

Boule de Suif was silent.

The whole afternoon she was left to herself.

But instead of calling her "Madame" as they had done so far, they addressed her as mademoiselle,
nobody knew why, as if they wanted to lower her one step in their esteem, which she had escaladed,
and make her feel her shameful situation.

But at dinner the coalition weakened. Loiseau spoke three unfortunate sentences. Each was racking
his brains to find new examples and did not find any, when the Countess, possibly without
premeditation, prompted by a vague desire to render homage to religion, questioned the elder of
the two nuns about the most noteworthy deeds in the lives of the Saints.-- Now, many Saints
had committed acts which would be crimes in our estimation; but the
Church absolves readily such transgressions when they are committed
for the glory of God and the love of our neighbors.

This was a powerful argument; the Countess made the most of it. Then, either by one of those
tacit understandings, those veiled complaisances in which whoever
wears the clerical garb excels, or through fortunate stupidity, serviable
foolishness, the old nun brought a formidable support to the conspiracy.

They thought she was timid; she showed herself bold, talkative, violent. This one was not trouble
by the hesitations of casuistry; her doctrine seemed to be an iron bar; her faith never hesitated;
her conscience had no scruples. She found quite natural Abraham's sacrifice, because she would
immediately have killed her father and mother if she had received an order from heaven to do
so; and in her opinion nothing could displease God if the motive were laudable. The Countess
taking advantage of the sacred authority of her unexpected accomplice, led her on to make a kind
of edifying paraphrase of this axiom of morality: "The end justifies
the means."

She questioned her:-- "Then, Sister, you think that God accepts all
methods and forgives the act when the motive is pure?"-- "Who could
doubt it, Madame?

An action condemnable in itself often becomes meritorious by the thought
which inspires it."

And they continued in this way, unraveling God's intentions, forecasting
his judgments, and making Him take interest in things that really
did not concern Him at all.

All this was expounded in a veiled, clever, discreet and insinuating
manner.

But
each word of the holy woman in cornet made a breach in the indignant
resistance of the courtesan. Then the conversation drifting somewhat,
the woman with the hanging rosary spoke of the Convents of her Order,
of her Superior, of herself, and of her lovely neighbor, the dear
Sister Saint-Nicephore.

They had been called to Havre to nurse in the Hospitals hundreds of soldiers stricken with small-pox.
She described them, those wretched victims, and gave details about their disease. And while
they had been stopped on their way by the caprices of this Prussian Officer,
a large number of Frenchmen, whom they would probably have saved, might
die.

It was her specialty to nurse soldiers; she had been in Crimea, in Italy, in Austria, and
telling the story of her campaigns, she unexpectedly revealed herself one
of those Nuns fond of drums and bugles, who seem to have been created
to follow the armies in action, to pick soldiers during the vicissitudes
of battles, and, better than a General, to tame with one word the
rough and insubordinate troopers; a genuine martial and bellicose
Nun, whose wrinkled and pitted face, looked like an image of the devastations
of war.

No one uttered a word after she had concluded, so excellent seemed to be the effect of her discourse.
As soon as the meal was over, they went up quickly to their rooms
and came down the next morning rather late.

Luncheon went off quietly. They were giving the seed that had been sown time to germinate and come
to fruition. The Countess proposed to take a walk in the afternoon; then the Count, as previously
agreed, offered his arm to Boule de Suif and walked with her at some
distance behind. He spoke to her in that familiar, paternal and slightly
contemptuous tone which sedate men assume when talking with women of loose
morals, calling her: "my dear child," treating her from the height
of his social position, his unquestionable honesty.

He went straight to the core of the matter:-- "So you prefer to leave
us here exposed like yourself to all the violence which would result
from a defeat of the Prussian Army, rather than consent to one of
those complaisances which you have had so often in your life"-- Boule
de Suif did not answer.

He tried kindness, reasoning, sentiment. He managed to remain "Monsieur
le Comte" even while showing himself gallant, when necessary, flattering,
amiable.

As soon as they returned to the inn, she went up to her room and was
not seen again. There was extreme anxiety.

What was she going to do? If she resisted, what an embarrassment for them all? The dinner hour
struck; they waited for her in vain.

Then Mr. Follenvie came in and announced that Mademoiselle Rousset did not feel well and that they
might sit down to dinner. They all pricked their ears. The Count came near the inn-keeper and whispered:
"Is it all right?"-- "Yes."

For the sake of propriety, he did not say anything to his companions,
but nodded to them slightly.

Immediately a great sigh of relief went up from all breasts; joy brightened every face. Loiseau
exclaimed: "By Jove, I'll treat to champagne if any is left in this
house!"-- And Madame Loiseau felt a pang when the inn-keeper returned
with four bottles in his hand.

Every
one had suddenly become communicative and merry; a lively joy filled
the hearts.

Suddenly Loiseau, with an alarmed face, raised his arms and shouted:
"Silence!"

They all stopped talking, were surprised nay even frightened. Then he listened, said "Hush!" signaling with
his two hands, raised his eyes to the ceiling, listened again and,
in his natural voice, he resumed: "Don't be afraid, everything is
all right!"

They hesitated to understand what he meant, but soon a smile lighted up all the faces. After a
quarter of an hour, he started again the same farce and repeated
it often during the evening; he mimicked as if he were calling a
person on the second floor and giving her equivocal advices drawn
from his imagination of a commercial traveler.

At times he assumed a dismal air and sighed:-- "Poor girl!"-- or he muttered in his teeth, with a peevish air:--
"Rascal of a Prussian!"-- Several times, when the others did not
think of it, he called out repeatedly in a vibrating voice: "Enough!

Enough!" and he added as if soliloquizing:-- "Provided that we see
her again and that the wretch does not kill her!"

Although
such jokes were in very bad taste, they amused more than they shocked the company, for indignation
like everything else depends on environment, and the atmosphere
that had gradually developed around them was laden with naughty thoughts.

At dessert, even the women indulged in witty and discreet allusions. Their eyes were bright and
gleaming; they had drunk considerably. The Count who, even in his moments of relaxation, preserved
a dignified appearance, found a comparison with the end of winter
in the polar regions and the joy of the ship-wrecked mariners when
they see a way open to the South; and this comparison was greatly
appreciated.

Loiseau, warmed up, rose to his feet with a glass of champagne in his hands:-- "I drink to our deliverance!"--
Everybody stood up; he was acclaimed. Even the two good sisters, urged by the ladies, consented
to moisten their lips with the sparkling wine, which they had never tasted. They declared that
it tasted like sparkling lemonade, but that it was finer.

Loiseau summed up the situation:-- "What a pity that there is no
piano!

We might have danced a quadrille!"-- Cornudet had not said a single word,
nor made a single gesture; he even seemed to be plunged in very serious
thoughts, and from time to time tugged furiously at his long beard
as if he wanted to make it longer.

Finally, toward midnight, as they were going to separate, Loiseau, who was unsteady on his feet
slapped him suddenly on the stomach and spluttered:-- "You are not in a gay mood to-night, you
don't talk much, citoyen?"-- But Cornudet raised briskly his head and casting a swift and terrible look at the
company, fairly shouted:-- "I tell you all, that you have behaved
infamously!"-- He got up, walked to the door and repeated once more:
"Infamous!" and he disappeared.

This threw a chill at first. Loiseau nonplused, stood looking foolish;
but he recovered his countenance and then suddenly began to laugh and
repeat:-- "Sour grapes! my dear Sir, sour grapes!"-- The company did not
understand what he meant; he explained the "mysteries of the hall"--
Then there was a resumption of formidable gayety.

The ladies were immensely amused. The Count and Mr. Carre-Lamadon laughed to tears. They could
hardly believe their ears.-- "Why! are you sure? He wanted"-- "I tell you that I saw it with my own
eyes."-- "And she refused?"-- "Because the Prussian was in the next
room."-- "Is it possible?"-- "I swear it is true!"-- The Count was
choking with laughter. The manufacturer was compressing his stomach
with his hands.-- "And you understand, to-night he does not think
it is funny at all."-- And all three began to laugh again, choking,
out of breath.

Thereupon they retired. But Madame Loiseau, who had the prickly disposition of a nettle remarked
to her husband, at the moment they were going to bed:-- "That stuck-up little Madame Carre-Lamadon
laughed deceitfully all evening." "You know, for women, when they
chase uniforms, it does not make any difference whether the uniforms
are French or Prussian.

What a pity, oh Lord!"-- And all night, in the darkness of the hall
there were light sounds like tremors, hardly audible, similar to murmurs,
contacts of bare feet, imperceptible crackings.

And they fell asleep quite late, certainly, because rays of light
could be seen for a long time under the doors.

Champagne has such effects; I understand it disturbs the sleep.

The next morning a bright winter sunshine made the snow dazzling.
The coach, finally harnessed, was waiting at the door, while an army
of white pigeons, ensconced in their white feathers, with their pink
eyes spotted in the middle with small black dots, were walking leisurely
between the legs of the six horses and picking their food from the
steaming manure which they were scattering.

The driver, wrapped up in his sheepskin cloak, was up on his seat, smoking a pipe, and all
the travelers, looking radiant, were having provisions packed up for the rest of the trip. Boule
de Suif only had not come down. She appeared. She seemed to be rather
confused, bashful; shyly, she walked up to her companions who, all with the
same movement, turned away from her as if they had not seen her. The
Count, dignified, took his wife by the arm and removed her from this
impure contact.

The girl stood still, stupefied; then picking up all her courage
she accosted the manufacturer's wife with a-- "Good morning, Madame!"--
humbly muttered.

The other answered only with a short and impertinent nod accompanied by a look of outraged virtue.
Everybody seemed to be busy and kept away from her as if she were carrying some infectious germs
in her skirt. Then they rushed up to the coach, in which she entered
last, without being helped by anyone, and silently she took the seat
she had occupied during the final part of the journey.

They feigned not to see her, not to know her; but Mme. Loiseau, looking at her indignantly from
a distance, told her husband half aloud:-- "Fortunately I am not
sitting next to her."-- The heavy coach started and the journey was
resumed.

First nobody spoke.

Boule de Suif did not dare raise her eyes.

At the same time she felt indignant at all her companions, and humiliated
for having yielded to the Prussian Officer into whose arms she had
been hypocritically forced by them.

Really a select nature, besides highly educated, and an artist to
the tips of her fingers.

She sings delightfully and paints to perfection.

"The manufacturer was talking with the Count, and in the middle of
the clatter of the window-panes, one could catch here and there a
word:--"

Coupon-- maturity-- premium-- term-- "Loiseau, who had stolen from
the inn the old pack of cards, greasy after five years friction on
dirty tables, started a game of" bezigue "with his wife.

The good sisters took from their belts the long rosaries, made simultaneously
the sign of the cross and suddenly their lips began to move rapidly,
becoming more and more accelerated, precipitating their vague murmur
as if in a race of" orisons; "and now and then they kissed a medal,
crossed themselves again, and resumed their swift and continuous
mutterings.

Cornudet sat still and deep in thoughts.

After they had traveled for three hours, Loiseau picked up his cards
and said:--"

I am hungry.

"Then his wife reached out for a package from which she drew a piece of cold veal. She cut
it carefully in thin and neat slices and both began to eat.--" Why
shouldn't we do the same? "-- said the Countess.

Upon general consent, she unpacked the provisions prepared for the two
couples.

In one of those oval dishes, the cover of which bears a china hare,
to show that a hare pie lies inside, there were exquisite delicatessen,
the white streams of lard crossing the brown meat of the game, mixed
with other fine chopped meats.

A handsome piece of Swiss-cheese, wrapped in a newspaper, had taken
on its fat surface the imprint:--" Sundry items. "The two sisters
opened a hunk of sausage which smelled of garlic; and Cornudet plunging
at the same time both his hands in the large pockets of his baggy
overcoat, drew from one four hard-boiled eggs and from the other the
crust of a loaf of bread.

At first a tumultuous anger shook her, and she opened her mouth to tell them what she thought of
them in a wave of insults that surged to her lips; but she could
not speak, so exasperated was she with indignation.

Nobody looked at her, took notice of her.

She felt drowned in the scorn of those honest rascals who had first sacrificed her and then cast
her away like something unclean and of no further use. Then she thought of her large basket full
of good things, which they had devoured greedily, of her two chickens shining in jelly, her pastry,
her pears, her four bottles of claret; and suddenly, her furor having
died out, like an over strung cord, she felt like crying. It is at once an old country and a new--the
home of a people who are rapidly passing away--and of a nation whose strength is ever advancing.
The white man treads upon the footsteps of the Dahcotah--the war dance of the warrior gives
place to the march of civilization--and the saw-mill is heard where but a few years ago were
sung the deeds of the Dahcotah braves.

Years ago, the Dahcotah hunted where the Mississippi takes its rise--the tribe claiming the
country as far south as St. Louis. But difficulties with the neighboring tribes have diminished
their numbers and driven them farther north and west; the white people have needed their lands,
and their course is onward. How will it end? Will this powerful tribe cease to be a nation
on the earth? Will their mysterious origin never be ascertained? And must their religion and
superstitions, their customs and feasts pass away from memory as if they had never been?

Who can look upon them without interest? hardly the philosopher--surely not the Christian.
The image of God is defaced in the hearts of the savage. Cain-like does the child of the forest
put forth his hand and stain it with a brother's blood. But are there no deeds of darkness
done in our own favored land?

But the country of the Dahcotah,--let it be new to those who fly at the beckon of gain--who
would speculate in the blood of their fellow-creatures, who for gold would, aye do, sell their
own souls,--it is an old country to me. What say the boundless prairies? how many generations
have roamed over them? when did the buffalo first yield to the arrow of the hunter? And look
at the worn bases of the rocks that are washed by the Father of waters. Hear the Dahcotah maiden
as she tells of the lover's leap--and the warrior as he boasts of the victories of his forefathers
over his enemies, long, long before the hated white man had intruded upon their lands, or taught
them the fatal secret of intoxicating drink.

The Dahcotahs feel their own weakness--they know they cannot contend with the power of the
white man. Yet there are times when the passion and vehemence of the warriors in the neighborhood
of Fort Snelling can hardly be brought to yield to the necessity of control; and were there
a possibility of success, how soon would the pipe of peace be thrown aside, and the yell and
whoop of war be heard instead! And who would blame them? Has not the blood of our bravest and
best been poured out like water for a small portion of a country--when the whole could never
make up for the loss sustained by one desolate widow or fatherless child? 

"Nor did they ask us," exclaimed Stephen; "lubbers and idlers were the best words they had
for us."

"Ho! ho! That's the way with the brethren of Saint Grimbald! And
your uncle?"

"Alas, sir, he doteth with age," said Ambrose. "He took Stephen for his own brother, dead under
King Harry of Windsor."

"So! I had heard somewhat of his age and sickness. Who was it who
thrust you out?"

"A lean brother with a thin red beard, and a shrewd, puckered visage."

"Ha! By that token'twas Segrim the bursar. He wots how to drive a bargain. Saint Austin! but he
deemed you came to look after your kinsman's corrody."

"He said the king spake of a visitation to abolish corrodies from
religious houses," said Ambrose.

"He'll abolish the long bow from them first," said Father Shoveller.

"Ay, and miniver from my Lord Abbot's hood. I'd admonish you, my good brethren of Saint Grimbald,
to be in no hurry for a visitation which might scarce stop where you would fain have it. Well,
my sons, are ye bound for the Forest again? An ye be, we'll wend back together, and ye can lie
at Silkstede to-night."

"Alack, kind father, there's no more home for us in the Forest," said
Ambrose.

"Methought ye had a brother?"

"Yea; but our brother hath
a wife."

"Ho! ho! And the wife will none of you?"

"She would have
kept Ambrose to teach her boy his primer," said Stephen; "but she
would none of Spring nor of me."

"We hoped to receive counsel from
our uncle at Hyde," added Ambrose.

"Have ye no purpose now?" inquired
the Father, his jolly good-humoured face showing much concern.

"Yea,"
manfully returned Stephen. "'Twas what I ever hoped to do, to fare
on and seek our fortune in London."

"Ha! To pick up gold and silver
like Dick Whittington. Poor old Spring here will scarce do you the
part of his cat," and the monk's hearty laugh angered Stephen into
muttering, "We are no fools," but Father Shoveller only laughed the
more, saying, "Fair and softly, my son, ye'll never pick up the gold
if ye cannot brook a kindly quip. Have you friends or kindred in
London?"

"Yea,
that have we, sir," cried Stephen; "our mother's own brother, Master
Randall, hath come to preferment there in my Lord Archbishop of York's
household, and hath sent us tokens from time to time, which we will
show you." Who
has done this? who has killed the brave warrior? bring me the murderer, that I may cut him
on pieces."

It needed not to call upon the warriors who stood around. They were excited enough. Bad Hail
stood near, his eyes bloodshot with rage, his lip quivering, and every trembling limb telling
of the tempest within. Shah-co-pee, the orator of the Dahcotahs, and "The Nest," their most
famous hunter; the tall form of the aged chief "Man in the cloud" leaned against the railing,
his sober countenance strangely contrasting with the fiend-like look of his wife; Grey Iron
and Little Hill, with brave after brave, all crying vengeance to the foe, death to the Chippeway!

CHAPTER II.

But yesterday the Dahcotahs and Chippeways, foes from time immemorial, feasted and danced together,
for there was peace between them. They had promised to bury the hatchet; the Chippeways danced
near the fort, and the Dahcotahs presented them with blankets and pipes, guns and powder, and
all that the savage deems valuable. Afterwards, the Dahcotahs danced, and the generous Chippeways
exceeded them in the number and value of their gifts. As evening approached, the bands mingled
their amusements--together they contended in the foot-race, or, stretching themselves upon
the grass, played at checkers. 

The payment of a nominal fee of a penny to insure genuine cases is all that is exacted. Out-patients
are selected by the medical staff to become in-patients. The children look bright and well cared
for; the wards are models of cleanliness and comfort. The hospital is entirely supported by voluntary
contributions and subscriptions. The temporary house at Harrow has been retained as a convalescent
home.

A house, No. 13, close by the hospital, is one of Dr. Stainer's Homes
for Deaf and Dumb Children.

The
Paddington charities may be here described. But it must be remembered that amounts where mentioned
are only given in general terms, and are liable to variation.

The Bread and Cheese Charity is of very ancient origin, and is said to have been founded by
two maiden ladies. The bequest was in the form of land, though the name of the donors and the date
of the gift are unknown. With the rents of the land bread and cheese were purchased, and thrown
from the church tower to poor people on the Sunday before Christmas.

The annual income arising from this source is now divided, being expended partly upon education,
partly upon apprenticeship, and a certain amount upon coals and blankets to be distributed
among the poor of the parish.

Johnson's Charity is a rent-charge of£ 1 a year, distributed in small sums among the poor of
the parish. The date of this bequest is not known.

Lyon's Charity is of very ancient date-- namely, 1578. It consists of an estate in Kilburn and
an estate in Paddington, and is distributed among many different parishes. The greater part of
the income, which, of course, varies in amount, goes to the repairing
of roads.

Harvest's Charity in 1610 bequeathed an estate to the parishes of Paddington and Marylebone
for repairing the highways.

The income derived from this source is devoted to the above-mentioned
purpose.

Dr. Compton's and Margaret Robertson's, or Robinson's Charity.-- This is supposed to have been
partly the gift of Dr. Compton, Bishop of London. The first grant was made in 1717, which was
after Dr. Compton's death, but it is possible that he promised the gift which was granted by
his successor, Dr. Robinson. Lysons says "the donation was confirmed by Dr. Robinson." "The
first admission to the land, the property of Margaret Robertson's Charity, was on the 18th
day of April, 1721" (Charity Commissioners'Report). The same persons
are trustees for both charities.

The gross total income, which amounts to about£ 535, is distributed as follows:£ 321 for education
purposes,£ 107 for apprenticing, and the same as the latter sum to be given to the poor of
the parish in kind.

The Almshouse Charity.-- Paddington is singularly deficient in almshouses, the only houses of
the kind having been pulled down between 1860 and 1870. These stood opposite the Vestry Hall,
and are mentioned below. The Almshouse Charity includes the charity of Frances King. It is described
as having been mentioned first on the Court Rolls of the manor of
Paddington in 1720, but Lysons, in referring to the same charity,
says: "Several small almshouses were built at the parish expense in
the year 1714."

There were seventeen of these almshouses in all, inclusive of four built by Samuel Pepys Cockerell.
Two of them were used as rooms by the master and mistress of the
Charity School.

Some of these houses must have been pulled down previous to the year 1853, for at that date
the Vestry applied for permission to pull down the twelve almshouses in the Harrow Road, considering
that the estate could be more advantageously administered. It was not until 1867, however,
that the order of the Court of Chancery was finally obtained, and
after the demolition part of the land was let on a building lease.

Another part, with a frontage to the Harrow Road, was let also on a building lease 1869. The
houses erected on this are Nos. 111, 113, 115, 117, 119, Harrow Road. Frances King's Charity was£
200, given by will in 1845 to be expended in coals for the inhabitants of the above-mentioned
almshouses. The total income of the Almshouse Charity is somewhere about£ 200; of this amount
the trustees pay a yearly sum of£ 50 to the trustees of St. Mary's School, and the remainder is applied
to necessary expenses, and to pensions of£ 10 to£ 12 a year to deserving
candidates in the parish.

Denis Chirac left in 1777 a sum of£ 100 (Report Charity Commissioners;
Lysons says£ 138) for the benefit of the poor children of the parish.

This amount, together with£ 120 given by Baron Maseres, was applied to the building of a schoolroom.
The old Charity School, still standing near the site of the almshouses, was built in 1822 upon
copyhold land granted for the purpose by the Bishop. St. Mary's Schools at present stand near
the spot in Church Place.

Abourne's Charity was left in 1767.

It is at present£ 300 in stock, and produces an annual income of from£ 8 to£ 9, distributed in
bread among the poor of the parish.

Simmonds'Charity consists of the dividends on£ 600 stock, from which an annual income of from£
16 to£ 20 is distributed among poor women of the parish in sums
of 10s.

6d.

Marion Mayne's Charity.-- In 1854 Marion Mayne left a sum of money
by her will for keeping in repair certain tombstones, tablets, etc.,
including her own, and a sum for the maintenance of Paddington Green
in good order, and a sum to be expended in annuities among the poor
of the parish.

The present income is derived from the dividends on£ 6,416 1s. 7d. stock, the latest income
of which is expended as directed.

Smith Charity.-- Under Augustus Frederick Smith's will, proved March 19, 1881, dividends on£ 9,985
3s. 8d. were left to the parish.

The income is between£ 200 and£ 300.

This is distributed amongst poor women about sixty years of age resident in Paddington, in pensions
of not more than£ 20, or less than£ 10 per annum.

Following St. Mary's Terrace northwards, we see on the east side a curious little passage leading
to a small Welsh chapel, an iron building. Close by the chapel stands a genuine old cottage,
whitewashed and thatched, a remnant of the time when Paddington was largely composed of open ground.
This cottage is said by an antiquarian authority to be several centuries old. It was granted
to the Welsh congregation by the Bishop of London in 1890. Not far from this, up another narrow
opening, is an old brick house with quaint red-tiled roof.

This is Claremont House. It is picturesque, but has no authentic history. Opening out of St.
Mary's Terrace on the east side, Howley and Fulham Places and Porteus Road recall the ownership
of the Bishops of London.

We must now mention the Grand Junction Canal. When it was first opened it was the fashion to go
excursions by the day on the water, a custom referred to in "Nollekens
and his Times."

In 1812 the Regent's Canal Company was incorporated and given authority to make and maintain a
navigable canal from the Grand Junction Canal in the parish of Paddington to the river Thames
in the parish of Limehouse.

The canal to the Regent's Park basin was opened two years after this, but was only completed
in 1820. About "Paddington Basin," as it is called, are clustered many poor houses. The streets
between the Harrow Road on the one side, and the basin on the other, are miserable and squalid.
At the corner of Green Street is a church formerly belonging to the Catholic Apostolic community,
later purchased by the Baptists, and now belonging to the Salvation
Army.

This is a structure of Kentish ragstone in a Gothic style with small steeple. In the Edgware
Road are one or two public-houses, which, if not actually old, stand
on the sites and inherit the names of famous old predecessors.

The White Lion, now amalgamated with a music-hall, bears date of foundation 1524. It is said
that G. Morland, the animal painter, painted a sign for this. It is No. 267. Northward, at the
corner of Church Street, is the Wheatsheaf, which, says Robins, "has the credit of having frequently
entertained honest and learned Ben Jonson."

The Red Lion, No. 239, a little to the north of Praed Street, claims as ancient a date. Tradition
says that Shakespeare acted in one of the old wooden rooms, now vanished, and the inn boasts
a haunted chamber.

In Cambridge Place is St. Mary's Hospital and Medical School. The suggestion of a hospital was
discussed in 1840, but the foundation was not laid until 1843 by the late Prince Consort. The
building was designed to hold 380 beds, but though it has been added to from time to time it still
contains less than this, a supply totally inadequate to the demand for accommodation. The first
wing was opened in 1857, and contained 150 beds. In 1865 the present King laid the foundation-stone
of a further wing, and in 1892 the stone of the Clarence memorial wing. By 1886 all the building
land acquired by the hospital had been used, and it was found necessary to purchase other land.
In 1887 negotiations were made by which the Grand Junction Canal
Company agreed to sell their interest in the required land.

After five years'labour and the expenditure of£ 48,000, the desired
result was achieved, and the Clarence wing was commenced.

The hospital now faces Praed Street as well as Cambridge Place, the intervening houses having
been pulled down. It is a great square red-brick building with stone facings. Behind the hospital
are All Saints'Schools, and to the west of them the Great Western Railway Terminus. The Act for
the extension of the Great Western line to Paddington, and for the erection of a station, was
dated 1836. The first station was, however, only temporary.

The present one was designed by I. K. Brunel, commenced 1849, and completed in 1854. It contains
three passenger platforms, and the roof is divided by columns into three great spans, of which
the centre one measures over 102 feet in width, and the outer ones 68 feet each. The station
buildings and platforms at Paddington cover an area of 373,407 feet,
but even this extent is insufficient for the railway purposes.

Adjacent houses have consequently been adapted for the offices, and there is continual need
for further accommodation. There are eight platform lines, and the platforms themselves are
780 feet in length. The daily passenger trains number from 250 to 300, and with the addition of excursion
trains in the season the total daily average has reached 350. The diurnal number of passengers
is estimated at 14,000, but high-water mark has been touched between 40,000 and 50,000. Twenty-five
tons of news parcels are despatched from Paddington in one day, and nearly 3,000 mail-bags
and parcels-post packages pass through the station in the same time,
besides about 5,000 milk-churns.

The above figures give some indication of the enormous traffic at this great terminus. The army
of workers employed numbers 2,000, exclusive of the large clerical
staff employed in the general department.

The Great Western Hotel in a Renaissance style fronts Praed Street. It was built from 1850 to
1852, and its frontage is nearly 89 yards in length, and it is connected with the station by means
of a covered way. Covered ways also connect the station with Praed Street and Bishop's Road Stations
of the Metropolitan Railway.

In No. 19, Warwick Crescent, Robert Browning lived for five-and-twenty
years, a fact recorded by a tablet of the Society of Arts.

He came here in 1862, broken down by the death of his wife, and remained until a threatened railway
near the front of the house-- an innovation never carried out-- drove
him away.

We are now once more in the region where the name of Westbourne is freely used. There is Westbourne
Terrace and Square, Westbourne Park Crescent and Terrace Road. Near to Park Crescent in Chichester
Place is a Jewish synagogue of red brick, with ornate stone carving over doors and windows.
Next door is a curiously built Primitive Methodist chapel, with bands of differently coloured
bricks in relief. St. Mary Magdalene's Church and schools stand at the corner of Cirencester
Street. A temporary church was first opened in 1865, and the real building in 1868. This was
the work of G. E. Street, R. A., and is a compactly built church of
dark-red brick, with apse and very high spire, 202 feet in height.

It stands in rather a peculiar situation at the junction of three or four roads, and suits
the position well.

On July 13, 1872, while workmen were still busy with the roofing, the church caught fire. The damage,
however, was not great.

The church was finally completed in 1878. The services are High Church. The patronage is held
by Keble College, Oxford, and the population of the parish is about 10,000. The ward of Maida
Vale is bounded by Church ward on the south, Westbourne and Harrow Road wards on the west,
and the borough boundary north and east. Between the Maida Vale Road and St. Saviour's Church in
the Warwick Road there is nothing to comment on. The church of St. Saviour is in a Decorated
style of Gothic. It is ornately built, with a square tower buttressed and pinnacled. The church
was consecrated in 1856, and in 1883 a very fine and solidly-built chancel was added. This
is faced on the interior with Cosham stone.

Carved stone niches run on the north and south and on both sides of the Communion table. Some
of these contain life-size statues of saints and the Apostles. A very handsome set of sanctuary
lamps, after a Florentine design, hang across the chancel.

In Formosa Street are the Church schools of St. Saviour's, and in Amberley Road there is a Board
School. At the north of Shirland Road is a dingy brick building like a large meeting-room.
This is the Welsh Calvinistic Methodist Church; in it the services are held in Welsh. Across
Sutherland Avenue, at the corner of Shirland Road, is a very large brick building faced with red
brick, which has two doorways with porticos supported by columns
with ornamented capitals.

This is a Wesleyan Methodist chapel, built in 1876. The schools in connection are beneath the
chapel. Further northward in the Shirland Road is a large brick building with two entrances.
This is the Wordsworth Ladies'College and a branch of the Kilburn Orphanage. It was built in
the year 1887 for both purposes, and there is no interior division between the college and home. The
orphans are only kept here until nine years of age, when they are passed on to the Central Home.
The Kilburn Sisters have patented a form of cot surrounded with wire to prevent the very little
ones from falling out in their sleep. The room where there are rows upon rows of these cots
with head curtains is a very curious spectacle, though it certainly suggests the desirability
of further accommodation. The college has large class-rooms and a studio for art students.
Some students board here, but the greater number attend daily.

The terms are very low-- fifteen shillings a week, including board, lodging, and tuition. The college
is intended to assist girls desirous of passing the Government examinations
as elementary school teachers.

Almost immediately opposite the college is a small brick Baptist chapel, considerably below
the level of the road. In Elgin Avenue there is a school of the Girls'Public Day School Company.
On either side of Elgin Avenue are large spaces of open ground used by market-gardeners and
others. To the north lies Paddington Recreation Ground, with cricket, football, and tennis grounds,
running and cycling tracks. Beyond this, in the most northerly part of the borough, is the
Kilburn Orphanage. This was begun in 1875 in two houses in the Kilburn
Park Road, but funds were raised for building purposes, and in 1880
the present orphanage was completed.

The Sisters themselves supplied quite half of the money required. The rule of the Sisterhood
is that, though each retains control of her own capital, her income goes into the common fund. The
orphanage is a large red-brick building standing in Randolph Gardens.

The western wing, now connected with the main building, was added later, and the chapel last
of all; it was not completed until about 1890. The chapel is well fitted up, and the whole
building has an air of comfort and warmth in the interior.

The passages are paved with tessellated pavement, and the floors of the large schoolrooms are
of parquet. This is only one of the orphanage homes. There is a large establishment at Broadstairs,
which is partly a home for convalescents and partly for orphans; and another at Margate; a
relief home for little ones, already mentioned, in the Shirland Road;
and homes for boys at Brondesbury, Oxford, and elsewhere.

In Burwood Place there are printing-offices and workshops connected
with the orphanage, entirely managed by the boys.

During the last few years there has been much discussion on the methods of the orphanage, and
several charges have been brought against the Sisters, of which the
chief are: (1) Want of business method and properly audited accounts;
(2) injudicious methods: advertising for illegitimate children without
inquiry, to the encouragement of vice; (3) receiving payment with
such children, when the foundation was intended for the absolutely
destitute; (4) repudiation of all external control, evidenced by deposing
the Archbishop of Canterbury from his post of patron when he attempted
inquiry.

These offences seem to have been chiefly the result of mismanagement, not deliberately wrought,
and might be condoned. The orphanage receives children from the workhouse under five years
of age, and also foundlings. The community comprises about 160 Sisters, of which many are
abroad. The orphan girls are trained in domestic work, and do all their own work in the home.
They do not leave until they are nineteen or twenty years of age.

Adjoining the orphanage is the large red-brick church of St. Augustine. This is a remarkable
church both inside and out. It was designed by J. L. Pearson, who thereby obtained the distinction
of adding the letters R. A. to his name.

Through this building he also obtained the commission to build Truro Cathedral. The church,
as above stated, is of red brick, in the first Pointed style, with long lancet windows. At the
four corners are four Pointed towers enriched with stonework. The centre steeple has never
been added, for want of funds, though the foundations for it are deeply laid. The interior
is very picturesque. There is a triforium formed by the bays of the arches carried up from
the centre aisle.

The roof is groined, and the chancel-screen, pulpit, walls of the chancel, and the reredos are
all stonework, with niches fitted with stone figures. In the transeptal chapels are some fine oil
paintings executed on brick; that in the south chapel is the work
of a prize pupil of the Royal Academy.

The church was built entirely owing to the exertions of the present vicar, Mr. Kirkpatrick,
who himself contributed largely. An iron church on the same site was erected in 1870, and was
so constructed that the present building could be built over and
enclose it; therefore service was never interrupted for one day during
the process.

In 1871 the greater part of the church was built, and in 1877 the nave was opened. It was completed
in 1880.

There is very little of interest in the remaining part of the district.

St. Peter's Church, Elgin Avenue, was consecrated on August 12, 1872. The church is built of
Kentish ragstone, and is in a plain Early English style, with an apse at the east end. The square
tower, surmounted by a short steeple, was added a few years later. The pillars are of polished
Aberdeen granite. St. Peter's National Schools lie to the south in Chippenham Road. In Fernhead
Road there is a Wesleyan chapel, built in an ornate style with two square towers. Further north,
just within the borough boundary, is St. Luke's Church, built of brick, with schools attached.
This was consecrated in January, 1877, and is in a severe Gothic
style. These rites have been preserved from generation to generation, told from father to son,
and they will be handed down until the Dahcotahs are no more, or until religion and education
take the place of superstition and ignorance--until God, our God, is known and worshipped among
a people who as yet have hardly heard His name.

SHAH-CO-PEE;

THE ORATOR OF THE SIOUX.

Shah-co-pee (or Six) is one of the chiefs of the Dahcotahs; his village is about twenty-five
miles from Fort Snelling. He belongs to the bands that are called Men-da-wa-can-ton, or People
of the Spirit Lakes.

No one who has lived at Fort Snelling can ever forget him, for at what house has he not called
to shake hands and smoke; to say that he is a great chief, and that he is hungry and must eat
before he starts for home? If the hint is not immediately acted upon, he adds that the sun
is dying fast, and it is time for him to set out.

Shah-co-pee is not so tall or fine looking as Bad Hail, nor has he the fine Roman features
of old Man in the Cloud. His face is decidedly ugly; but there is an expression of intelligence
about his quick black eye and fine forehead, that makes him friends, notwithstanding his many
troublesome qualities.

At present he is in mourning; his face is painted black. He never combs his hair, but wears
a black silk handkerchief tied across his forehead.

When he speaks he uses a great deal of gesture, suiting the action to the word. His hands,
which are small and well formed, are black with dirt; he does not descend to the duties of
the toilet.

He is the orator of the Dahcotahs. No matter how trifling the occasion, he talks well; and
assumes an air of importance that would become him if he were discoursing on matters of life
and death.

Some years ago, our government wished the Chippeways and Dahcotahs to conclude a treaty of
peace among themselves. Frequently have these two bands made peace, but rarely kept it any
length of time. On this occasion many promises were made on both sides; promises which would
be broken by some inconsiderate young warrior before long, and then retaliation must follow.

Shah-co-pee has great influence among the Dahcotahs, and he was to come to Fort Snelling to
be present at the council of peace. Early in the morning he and about twenty warriors left
their village on the banks of the St. Peters, for the Fort.

When they were very near, so that their actions could be distinguished, they assembled in their
canoes, drawing them close together, that they might hear the speech which their chief was
about to make them.

They raised the stars and stripes, and their own flag, which is a staff adorned with feathers
from the war eagle; and the noon-day sun gave brilliancy to their gay dresses, and the feathers
and ornaments that they wore.

Shah-co-pee stood straight and firm in his canoe--and not the less proudly that the walls of
the Fort towered above him.

"My boys," he said (for thus he always addressed his men), "the Dahcotahs are all braves; never
has a coward been known among the People of the Spirit Lakes. Let the women and children fear
their enemies, but we will face our foes, and always conquer.

"We are going to talk with the white men; our great Father wishes us to be at peace with our
enemies. We have long enough shed the blood of the Chippeways; we have danced round their scalps,
and our children have kicked their heads about in the dust. What more do we want? When we are
in council, listen to the words of the Interpreter as he tells us what our great Father says,
and I will answer him for you; and when we have eaten and smoked the pipe of peace, we will
return to our village."

The chief took his seat with all the importance of a public benefactor. He intended to have
all the talking to himself, to arrange matters according to his own ideas; but he did it with
the utmost condescension, and his warriors were satisfied.

Besides being an orator, Shah-co-pee is a beggar, and one of a high order too, for he will
neither take offence nor a refusal. Tell him one day that you will not give him pork and flour,
and on the next he returns, nothing daunted, shaking hands, and asking for pork and flour.
He always gains his point, for you are obliged to give in order to get rid of him. He will
take up his quarters at the Interpreter's, and come down upon you every day for a week just
at meal time--and as he is always blessed with a ferocious appetite, it is much better to capitulate,
come to terms by giving him what he wants, and let him go. And after he has once started, ten
to one if he does not come back to say he wants to shoot and bring you some ducks; you must
give him powder and shot to enable him to do so. That will probably be the last of it.

CHAPTER II.

It was a beautiful morning in June when we left Fort Snelling to go on a pleasure party up
the St. Peters, in a steamboat, the first that had ever ascended that river. There were many
drawbacks in the commencement, as there always are on such occasions. The morning was rather
cool, thought some, and as they hesitated about going, of course their toilets were delayed
to the last moment. And when all were fairly in the boat, wood was yet to be found. Then something
was the matter with one of the wheels--and the mothers were almost sorry they had consented
to come; while the children, frantic with joy, were in danger of being drowned every moment,
by the energetic movements they made near the sides of the boat, by way of indicating their
satisfaction at the state of things.

In the cabin, extensive preparations were making in case the excursion brought on a good appetite.
Everybody contributed loaf upon loaf of bread and cake; pies, coffee and sugar; cold meats
of every description; with milk and cream in bottles. Now and then, one of these was broken
or upset, by way of adding to the confusion, which was already intolerable.

Champaigne and old Cogniac were brought by the young gentlemen, only for fear the ladies should
be sea-sick; or, perhaps, in case the gentlemen should think it positively necessary to drink
the ladies' health.

When we thought all was ready, there was still another delay. Shah-co-pee and two of his warriors
were seen coming down the hill, the chief making an animated appeal to some one on board the
boat; and as he reached the shore he gave us to understand that his business was concluded,
and that he would like to go with us. But it was very evident that he considered his company
a favor.

The bright sun brought warmth, and we sat on the upper deck admiring the beautiful shores of
the St. Peter's. Not a creature was to be seen for some distance on the banks, and the birds
as they flew over our heads seemed to be the fit and only inhabitants of such a region.

When tired of admiring the scenery, there was enough to employ us. The table was to be set
for dinner; the children had already found out which basket contained the cake, and they were
casting admiring looks towards it.

When we were all assembled to partake of some refreshments, it was delightful to find that
there were not enough chairs for half the party. We borrowed each other's knives and forks
too, and etiquette, that petty tyrant of society, retired from the scene.

Shah-co-pee found his way to the cabin, where he manifested strong symptoms of shaking hands
over again; in order to keep him quiet, we gave him plenty to eat. How he seemed to enjoy a
piece of cake that had accidentally dropped into the oyster-soup! and with equal gravity would
he eat apple-pie and ham together. And then his cry of "wakun" [Footnote: Mysterious.] when
the cork flew from the champaigne bottle across the table!

How happily the day passed--how few such days occur in the longest life!

As Shah-co-pee's village appeared in sight, the chief addressed Col. D----, who was at that
time in command of Fort Snelling, asking him why we had come on such an excursion. 

Yes, repulsive; observe, it is but when he talks of ideas That he is quite unaffected, and free,
and expansive, and easy; I could pronounce him simply a cold intellectual
being.-- When does he make advances?-- He thinks that women should
woo him; Yet, if a girl should do so, would be but alarmed and disgusted.

She that should love him must look for small love in return,-- like the ivy On the stone wall, must
expect but a rigid and niggard support, and E'en to get that must
go searching all round with her humble embraces.

II. Claude to Eustace,-- from Rome.

Tell me, my friend, do you think that the grain would sprout in the furrow, Did it not truly
accept as its summum and ultimum bonum That mere common and may-be indifferent soil it is
set in?

Would it have force to develop and open its young cotyledons, Could it compare, and reflect, and
examine one thing with another? Would it endure to accomplish the round of its natural functions
Were it endowed with a sense of the general scheme of existence? While from Marseilles in the
steamer we voyage to Civita Vecchia, Vexed in the squally seas as
we lay by Capraja and Elba, Standing, uplifted, alone on the heaving
poop of the vessel, Looking around on the waste of the rushing incurious
billows,'This is Nature,'I said:'we are born as it were from her waters;
Over her billows that buffet and beat us, her offspring uncared-for, Casting
one single regard of a painful victorious knowledge, Into her billows
that buffet and beat us we sink and are swallowed.'This was the sense
in my soul, as I swayed with the poop of the steamer; And as unthinking
I sat in the hall of the famed Ariadne, Lo, it looked at me there from
the face of a Triton in marble.

It is the simpler thought, and I can believe it the truer. Let us not talk of growth; we are
still in our Aqueous Ages.

III.

Claude to Eustace.

Farewell, Politics, utterly! What can I do? I cannot Fight, you know; and to talk I am wholly
ashamed. And although I Gnash my teeth when I look in your French or your English papers,
What is the good of that?

Will swearing, I wonder, mend matters? Cursing and scolding repel the assailants? No, it is idle;
No, whatever befalls, I will hide, will ignore or forget it. Let the tail shift for itself; I
will bury my head.

And what's the Roman Republic to me, or I to the Roman Republic?

Why not fight?-- In the first place, I haven't so much as a musket;
In the next, if I had, I shouldn't know how I should use it; In the
third, just at present I'm studying ancient marbles; In the fourth,
I consider I owe my life to my country; In the fifth-- I forget, but
four good reasons are ample.

Meantime, pray let'em fight, and be killed. I delight in devotion. So that I'list not, hurrah for
the glorious army of martyrs! Sanguis martyrum semen Ecclesiae; though it would seem this Church
is indeed of the purely Invisible, Kingdom-come kind: Militant here on earth! Triumphant, of course,
then, elsewhere!

Ah, good Heaven, but I would I were out far away from the pother!

IV. Claude to Eustace.

Not, as we read in the words of the olden-time inspiration, Are there
two several trees in the place we are set to abide in; But on the
apex most high of the Tree of Life in the Garden, Budding, unfolding,
and falling, decaying and flowering ever, Flowering is set and decaying
the transient blossom of Knowledge,-- Flowering alone, and decaying,
the needless unfruitful blossom.

Or as the cypress-spires by the fair-flowing stream Hellespontine, Which from the mythical tomb
of the godlike Protesilaus Rose sympathetic in grief to his love-lorn Laodamia, Evermore growing,
and when in their growth to the prospect attaining, Over the low sea-banks, of the fatal Ilian
city, Withering still at the sight which still they upgrow to encounter. Ah, but ye that extrude
from the ocean your helpless faces, Ye over stormy seas leading long and dreary processions, Ye,
too, brood of the wind, whose coming is whence we discern not, Making your nest on the wave,
and your bed on the crested billow, Skimming rough waters, and crowding
wet sands that the tide shall return to, Cormorants, ducks, and gulls,
fill ye my imagination!

Let us not talk of growth; we are still in our Aqueous Ages.

V. Mary Trevellyn to Miss Roper,-- from Florence.

Dearest Miss Roper,-- Alas! we are all at Florence quite safe, and
You, we hear, are shut up! indeed, it is sadly distressing!

We were most lucky, they say, to get off when we did from the troubles. Now you are really besieged;
they tell us it soon will be over; Only I hope and trust without
any fight in the city.

Do you see Mr. Claude?-- I thought he might do something for you. I am quite sure on occasion
he really would wish to be useful. What is he doing? I wonder;-- still studying Vatican marbles?
Letters, I hope, pass through. We trust your brother is better.

VI. Claude to Eustace.

Juxtaposition, in fine; and what is juxtaposition?

Look you, we travel along in the railway-carriage or steamer, And, pour passer le temps, till
the tedious journey be ended, Lay aside paper or book, to talk with the girl that is next one;
And, pour passer le temps, with the terminus all but in prospect, Talk of eternal ties and marriages
made in heaven. Ah, did we really accept with a perfect heart the
illusion!

Ah, did we really believe that the Present indeed is the Only! Or through all transmutation,
all shock and convulsion of passion, Feel we could carry undimmed, unextinguished, the light
of our knowledge! But for his funeral train which the bridegroom sees in the distance, Would
he so joyfully, think you, fall in with the marriage procession? But for that final discharge,
would he dare to enlist in that service? But for that certain release, ever sign to that perilous
contract? But for that exit secure, ever bend to that treacherous
doorway?-- Ah, but the bride, meantime,-- do you think she sees it
as he does?

But for the steady fore-sense of a freer and larger existence, Think you that man could consent
to be circumscribed here into action? But for assurance within a limitless ocean divine, o'er Whose
great tranquil depths unconscious the wind-tost surface Breaks into ripples of trouble that come
and change and endure not,-- But that in this, of a truth, we have
our being, and know it, Think you we men could submit to live and
move as we do here?

Ah, but the women,-- God bless them! they don't think at all about it. Yet we must eat and
drink, as you say. And as limited beings Scarcely can hope to attain upon earth to an Actual
Abstract, Leaving to God contemplation, to His hands knowledge confiding,
Sure that in us if it perish, in Him it abideth and dies not, Let
us in His sight accomplish our petty particular doings,-- Yes, and
contented sit down to the victual that He has provided.

Allah is great, no doubt, and Juxtaposition his prophet. Ah, but the women, alas! they don't
look at it that way. Juxtaposition is great;-- but, my friend, I fear me, the maiden Hardly would
thank or acknowledge the lover that sought to obtain her, Not as
the thing he would wish, but the thing he must even put up with,--
Hardly would tender her hand to the wooer that candidly told her That
she is but for a space, an ad-interim solace and pleasure,-- That
in the end she shall yield to a perfect and absolute something, Which
I then for myself shall behold, and not another,-- Which amid fondest
endearments, meantime I forget not, forsake not Ah, ye feminine souls,
so loving, and so exacting, Since we cannot escape, must we even submit
to deceive you?

Since, so cruel is truth, sincerity shocks and revolts you, Will you have us your slaves to
lie to you, flatter and-- leave you?

VII. Claude to Eustace.

Juxtaposition is great,-- but, you tell me, affinity greater. Ah, my friend, there are many affinities,
greater and lesser, Stronger and weaker; and each, by the favour of juxtaposition, Potent, efficient,
in force,-- for a time; but none, let me tell you, Save by the law
of the land and the ruinous force of the will, ah, None, I fear me,
at last quite sure to be final and perfect.

Lo, as I pace in the street, from the peasant-girl to the princess,
Homo sum, nihil humani a me alienum puto,-- Vir sum, nihil faeminei,-- and
e'en to the uttermost circle, All that is Nature's is I, and I all
things that are Nature's. Yes, as I walk, I behold, in a luminous,
large intuition, That I can be and become anything that I meet with
or look at: I am the ox in the dray, the ass with the garden-stuff
panniers; I am the dog in the doorway, the kitten that plays in the
window, On sunny slab of the ruin the furtive and fugitive lizard,
Swallow above me that twitters, and fly that is buzzing about me;
Yea, and detect, as I go, by a faint but a faithful assurance, E'en
from the stones of the street, as from rocks or trees of the forest,
Something of kindred, a common, though latent vitality, greets me;
And to escape from our strivings, mistakings, misgrowths, and perversions,
Fain could demand to return to that perfect and primitive silence,
Fain be enfolded and fixed, as of old, in their rigid embraces.

VIII. Claude to Eustace.

And as I walk on my way, I behold them consorting and coupling; Faithful it seemeth, and fond,
very fond, very probably faithful, All as I go on my way, with a pleasure sincere and unmingled.
Life is beautiful, Eustace, entrancing, enchanting to look at; As are the streets of a city we
pace while the carriage is changing, As a chamber filled-in with harmonious, exquisite pictures,
Even so beautiful Earth; and could we eliminate only This vile hungering impulse, this demon
within us of craving, Life were beatitude, living a perfect divine
satisfaction.

IX. Claude to Eustace.

Mild monastic faces in quiet collegiate cloisters: So let me offer a single and celibatarian phrase,
a Tribute to those whom perhaps you do not believe I can honour. But, from the tumult escaping,'tis
pleasant, of drumming and shouting, Hither, oblivious awhile, to withdraw, of the fact or the falsehood,
And amid placid regards and mildly courteous greetings Yield to the calm and composure and gentle
abstraction that reign o'er Mild monastic faces in quiet collegiate cloisters. Terrible word, Obligation!
You should not, Eustace, you should not, No, you should not have used it. But, oh, great Heavens,
I repel it! Oh, I cancel, reject, disavow, and repudiate wholly Every debt in this kind, disclaim
every claim, and dishonour, Yea, my own heart's own writing, my soul's
own signature!

Ah, no! I will be free in this; you shall not, none shall, bind me.

No, my friend, if you wish to be told, it was this above all things, This that charmed me,
ah, yes, even this, that she held me to nothing. No, I could talk as I pleased; come close;
fasten ties, as I fancied; Bind and engage myself deep;-- and lo,
on the following morning It was all e'en as before, like losings in
games played for nothing.

Yes, when I came, with mean fears in my soul, with a semi-performance At the first step breaking
down in its pitiful role of evasion, When to shuffle I came, to compromise,
not meet, engagements, Lo, with her calm eyes there she met me and
knew nothing of it,-- Stood unexpecting, unconscious.

SHE spoke not of obligations, Knew not of debt-- ah, no, I believe
you, for excellent reasons.

X.
Claude to Eustace.

HANG this thinking, at last! what good is it? oh, and what evil! Oh, what mischief and pain!
like a clock in a sick man's chamber, Ticking and ticking, and still
through each covert of slumber pursuing.

What shall I do to thee, O thou Preserver of men? Have compassion; Be favourable, and hear!
Take from me this regal knowledge; Let me, contented and mute, with the beasts of the fields,
my brothers, Tranquilly, happily lie,-- and eat grass, like Nebuchadnezzar!

XI.

Claude to Eustace.

Tibur is beautiful, too, and the orchard slopes, and the Anio Falling, falling yet, to the ancient
lyrical cadence; Tibur and Anio's tide; and cool from Lucretilis
ever, With the Digentian stream, and with the Bandusian fountain,
Folded in Sabine recesses, the valley and villa of Horace:-- So not
seeing I sang; so seeing and listening say I, Here as I sit by the
stream, as I gaze at the cell of the Sibyl, Here with Albunea's home
and the grove of Tiburnus beside me; [*] Tivoli beautiful is, and
musical, O Teverone, Dashing from mountain to plain, thy parted impetuous
waters, Tivoli's waters and rocks; and fair unto Monte Gennaro (Haunt,
even yet, I must think, as I wander and gaze, of the shadows, Faded
and pale, yet immortal, of Faunus, the Nymphs, and the Graces).

Fair in itself, and yet fairer with human completing creations, Folded in Sabine recesses the valley
and villa of Horace:-- So not seeing I sang; so now-- Nor seeing,
nor hearing, Neither by waterfall lulled, nor folded in sylvan embraces,
Neither by cell of the Sibyl, nor stepping the Monte Gennaro, Seated
on Anio's bank, nor sipping Bandusian waters, But on Montorio's height,
looking down on the tile-clad streets, the Cupolas, crosses, and domes,
the bushes and kitchen-gardens, Which, by the grace of the Tibur,
proclaim themselves Rome of the Romans,-- But on Montorio's height,
looking forth to the vapoury mountains, Cheating the prisoner Hope
with illusions of vision and fancy,-- But on Montorio's height, with
these weary soldiers by me, Waiting till Oudinot enter, to reinstate
Pope and Tourist.*-- domus Albuneae resonantis, Et praeceps Anio,
et Tibuni lucus, et uda Mobilibus pomaria rivis XII.

Mary Trevellyn to Miss Roper. Dear Miss Roper,-- It seems, George Vernon, before we left Rome,
said Something to Mr. Claude about what they call his attentions.

Susan, two nights ago, for the first time, heard this from Georgina.

It is SO disagreeable and SO annoying to think of! If it could only
be known, though we may never meet him again, that It was all George's
doing, and we were entirely unconscious, It would extremely relieve--
Your ever affectionate Mary.

P. S. (1) Here is your letter arrived this moment, just as I wanted.

So you have seen him,-- indeed, and guessed,-- how dreadfully clever!

What did he really say? and what was your answer exactly? Charming!--
but wait for a moment, I haven't read through the letter. P. S. (2) Ah,
my dearest Miss Roper, do just as you fancy about it.

If you think it sincerer to tell him I know of it, do so. Though I should most extremely dislike it,
I know I could manage. It is the simplest thing, but surely wholly uncalled for. Do as you please; you know I
trust implicitly to you.

Say whatever is right and needful for ending the matter. Only don't tell Mr. Claude, what I
will tell you as a secret, That I should like very well to show him myself I forget it. P. S. (3)
I am to say that the wedding is finally settled for Tuesday. Ah, my dear Miss Roper, you surely,
surely can manage Not to let it appear that I know of that odious matter. It would be pleasanter
far for myself to treat it exactly As if it had not occurred: and I do not think he would like
it.

I must remember to add, that as soon as the wedding is over We shall be off, I believe, in a
hurry, and travel to Milan; There to meet friends of Papa's, I am
told, at the Croce di Malta Then I cannot say whither, but not at
present to England.

XIII. Claude to Eustace. Yes, on Montorio's height for a last farewell of the city,-- So it appears;
though then I was quite uncertain about it.

So, however, it was. And now to explain the proceeding. I was to go, as I told you, I think,
with the people to Florence. Only the day before, the foolish family Vernon Made some uneasy
remarks, as we walked to our lodging together, As to intentions forsooth,
and so forth.

I was astounded, Horrified quite; and obtaining just then, as it
happened, an offer (No common favour) of seeing the great Ludovisi
collection, Why, I made this a pretence, and wrote that they must
excuse me.

How could I go? Great Heavens! to conduct a permitted flirtation Under those vulgar eyes, the
observed of such observers! Well, but I now, by a series of fine
diplomatic inquiries, Find from a sort of relation, a good and sensible
woman, Who is remaining at Rome with a brother too ill for removal,
That it was wholly unsanctioned, unknown,-- not, I think, by Georgina:
She, however, ere this,-- and that is the best of the story,-- She
and the Vernon, thank Heaven, are wedded and gone-- honey-mooning.

So-- on Montorio's height for a last farewell of the city. Tibur I have not seen, nor the
lakes that of old I had dreamt of; Tibur I shall not see, nor Anio's
waters, nor deep en-Folded in Sabine recesses the valley and villa
of Horace; Tibur I shall not see;-- but something better I shall see.

Twice I have tried before, and failed in getting the horses; Twice I have tried and failed: this time
it shall not be a failure. Therefore farewell, ye hills, and ye, ye envineyarded ruins! Therefore
farewell, ye walls, palaces, pillars, and domes!

Therefore farewell, far seen, ye peaks of the mythic Albano, Seen from Montorio's height, Tibur
and Aesula's hills!

Ah, could we once, ere we go, could we stand, while, to ocean descending, Sinks o'er the yellow
dark plain slowly the yellow broad sun, Stand, from the forest emerging
at sunset, at once in the champaign, Open, but studded with trees, chestnuts
umbrageous and old, E'en in those fair open fields that incurve to
thy beautiful hollow, Nemi, imbedded in wood, Nemi, inurned in the
hill!-- Therefore farewell, ye plains, and ye hills, and the City
Eternal!

Therefore farewell! We depart, but to behold you again!

Canto IV. Eastward, or Northward, or West? I wander and ask as I wander; Weary, yet eager and
sure, Where shall I come to my love? Whitherward hasten to seek
her? Ye daughters of Italy, tell me, Graceful and tender and dark,
is she consorting with you?

Thou that out-climbest the torrent, that tendest thy goats to the summit, Call to me, child of the
Alp, has she been seen on the heights?

Italy, farewell I bid thee! for whither she leads me, I follow. Farewell the vineyard! for I, where
I but guess her, must go; Weariness welcome, and labour, wherever it be, if at last it Bring me in mountain
or plain into the sight of my love. I. Claude to Eustace,-- from Florence. Gone from Florence;
indeed! and that is truly provoking;-- Gone to Milan, it seems; then
I go also to Milan. Five days now departed; but they can travel but slowly;--
I quicker far; and I know, as it happens, the home they will go to.--
Why, what else should I do? Stay here and look at the pictures, Statues
and churches? Alack, I am sick of the statues and pictures!-- No,
to Bologna, Parma, Piacenza, Lodi, and Milan, Off go we to-night,--
and the Venus go to the Devil!

II. Claude to Eustace,-- from Bellaggio.

Gone to Como, they said; and I have posted to Como.

There was a letter left; but the cameriere had lost it.

Could it have been for me? They came, however, to Como, And from Como
went by the boat,-- perhaps to the Spluegen,-- Or to the Stelvio,
say, and the Tyrol; also it might be By Porlezza across to Lugano,
and so to the Simplon Possibly, or the St. Gothard,-- or possibly,
too, to Baveno, Orta, Turin, and elsewhere.

Indeed, I am greatly bewildered. III. Claude to Eustace,-- from Bellaggio. I have been up the
Spluegen, and on the Stelvio also: Neither of these can I find they
have followed; in no one inn, and This would be odd, have they written
their names.

I have been to Porlezza; There they have not been seen, and therefore not at Lugano. What shall
I do?

Go on through the Tyrol, Switzerland, Deutschland, Seeking, an inverse Saul, a kingdom to
find only asses? There is a tide, at least, in the LOVE affairs of mortals, Which, when taken
at flood, leads on to the happiest fortune,-- Leads to the marriage-morn
and the orange-flowers and the altar, And the long lawful line of
crowned joys to crowned joys succeeding.-- Ah, it has ebbed with me!

Ye gods, and when it was flowing, Pitiful fool that I was, to stand
fiddle-faddling in that way!

IV. Claude to Eustace,-- from Bellaggio. I have returned and found their names in the book
at Como. Certain it is I was right, and yet I am also in error. Added in feminine hand, I
read, By the boat to Bellaggio.-- So to Bellaggio again, with the words of he writing to aid
me. Yet at Bellaggio I find no trace, no sort of remembrance. So I am here, and wait, and know
every hour will remove them. V. Claude to Eustace,-- from Bellaggio. I have
but one chance left,-- and that is going to Florence.

But it is cruel to turn.

The mountains seem to demand me,-- Peak and valley from far to beckon and motion me onward. Somewhere
amid their folds she passes whom fain I would follow; Somewhere amid those heights she haply
calls me to seek her. Ah, could I hear her call! could I catch the
glimpse of her raiment! Turn, however, I must, though it seem I turn
to desert her; For the sense of the thing is simply to hurry to Florence,
Where the certainty yet may be learnt, I suppose, from the Ropers.

VI. Mary Trevellyn, from Lucerne, to Miss Roper, at Florence.

Dear Miss Roper,-- By this you are safely away, we are hoping, Many
a league from Rome; ere long we trust we shall see you.

How have you travelled?

I wonder;-- was Mr. Claude your companion? As for ourselves, we went from Como straight to Lugano; So
by the Mount St. Gothard; we meant to go by Porlezza, Taking the
steamer, and stopping, as you had advised, at Bellaggio, Two or three
days or more; but this was suddenly altered, After we left the hotel,
on the very way to the steamer.

So we have seen, I fear, not one of the lakes in perfection. Well, he is not come, and now,
I suppose, he will not come. What will you think, meantime? and yet I must really confess it;-- What
will you say? I wrote him a note. We left in a hurry, Went from Milan to Como, three days before
we expected. But I thought, if he came all the way to Milan, he really Ought not to be disappointed:
and so I wrote three lines to Say I had heard he was coming, desirous of joining our party;--
If so, then I said, we had started for Como, and meant to Cross the St. Gothard, and stay, we believed, at
Lucerne, for the summer.

Was it wrong? and why, if it was, has it failed to bring him?

Did he not think it worth while to come to Milan? He knew (you Told him) the house we should
go to.

Or may it, perhaps, have miscarried? Any way, now, I repent, and am heartily vexed that I wrote
it.

There is a home on the shore of the Alpine sea, that upswelling High up the mountain-sides spreads
in the hollow between; Wilderness, mountain, and snow from the land
of the olive conceal it; Under Pilatus's hill low by the river it
lies; Italy, utter the word, and the olive and vine will allure not,--
Wilderness, forest, and snow will not the passage impede; Italy, unto
thy cities receding, the clue to recover, Hither, recovered the clue,
shall not the traveller haste?

Canto V. There is a city, upbuilt on the quays of the turbulent Arno,
Under Fiesole's heights,-- thither are we to return?

There is a city that fringes the curve of the inflowing waters, Under the perilous hill fringes the
beautiful bay,-- Parthenope, do they call thee?-- the Siren, Neapolis,
seated Under Vesevus's hill,-- are we receding to thee?-- Sicily,
Greece, will invite, and the Orient;-- or are we turn to England,
which may after all be for its children the best?

I. Mary Trevellyn, at Lucerne, to Miss Roper, at Florence. So you are really free, and living in
quiet at Florence; That is delightful news; you travelled slowly and safely; Mr. Claude got you
out; took rooms at Florence before you; Wrote from Milan to say so; had left directly for
Milan, Hoping to find us soon;-- if he could, he would, you are certain.--
Dear Miss Roper, your letter has made me exceedingly happy.

You
are quite sure, you say, he asked you about our intentions; You had
not heard as yet of Lucerne, but told him of Como.-- Well, perhaps
he will come; however, I will not expect it. Alas! her smile was sweeter than
the recollection of revenge. He had waded in the blood of his enemies; he had trampled upon
the hearts of the men he hated; but he had broken the heart of the only woman he had ever loved.

In the silence of the night her death-cry sounded in his ear; and he would start as if to flee
from the sound. In his dreams he saw again that trustful face, that look of appeal--and then
the face of stone, when she saw that she had appealed in vain.

He followed the chase, but there he could not forget the battle scene. "Save me! save me!"
forever whispered every forest leaf, or every flowing wave. Often did he hear her calling him,
and he would stay his steps as if he hoped to meet her smile.

The medicine men offered to cure his disease; but he knew that it was beyond their art, and
he cared not how soon death came, nor in what form.

He met the fate he sought. A war party was formed among the Dahcotahs to seek more scalps,
more revenge. But the Track-maker was weary of glory.

He went with the party, and never returned. Like her, he died in battle; but the death that
she sought to avert, was a welcome messenger to him. He felt that in the grave all would be
forgotten.

ETA KEAZAH;

OR,

SULLEN FACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wenona was the light of her father's wigwam--the pride of the band of Sissetons, whose village
is on the shores of beautiful Lake Travers. However cheerfully the fire might burn in the dwelling
of the aged chief, there was darkness, for him when she was away--and the mother's heart was
always filled with anxiety, for she knew that Wenona had drawn upon her the envy of her young
companions, and she feared that some one of them would cast a spell [Footnote: The Indians
fear that from envy or jealousy some person may cast a fatal spell upon them to produce sickness,
or even death. This superstition seems almost identical with the Obi or Obeat of the West India
negroes.] upon her child, that her loveliness might be dimmed by sorrow or sickness.

The warriors of the band strove to outdo each other in noble deeds, that they might feel more
worthy to claim her hand;--while the hunters tried to win her good will by presents of buffalo
and deer. Rome will not suit me, Eustace; the priests and soldiers possess it; Priests and soldiers:-- and,
ah! which is the worst, the priest or the soldier? Politics, farewell, however! For what could
I do? with inquiring, Talking, collating the journals, go fever my brain about things o'er Which
I can have no control. No, happen whatever may happen, Time, I suppose, will subsist; the earth
will revolve on its axis; People will travel; the stranger will wander as now in the city;
Rome will be here, and the Pope the custode of Vatican marbles. I have no heart, however, for
any marble or fresco; I have essayed it in vain;'tis in vain as
yet to essay it: But I may haply resume some day my studies in this
kind; Not as the Scripture says, is, I think, the fact.

Ere our death-day, Faith, I think, does pass, and Love; but Knowledge abideth. Let us seek Knowledge;-- the
rest may come and go as it happens. Knowledge is hard to seek, and harder yet to adhere to.
Knowledge is painful often; and yet when we know we are happy. Seek it, and leave mere Faith
and Love to come with the chances. As for Hope,-- to-morrow I hope to be starting for Naples.
Rome will not do, I see, for many very good reasons. Eastward, then, I suppose, with the coming of
winter, to Egypt.

XI. Mary Trevellyn to Miss Roper.

You have heard nothing; of course I know you can have heard nothing. Ah, well, more than once
I have broken my purpose, and sometimes, Only too often, have looked
for the little lake steamer to bring him.

He would go, because she asked him. The quiet and beauty of nature were not for him; rather
would he have stood alone when the storm held its sway; when the darkness was only relieved
by the flash that laid the tall trees of the forest low; when the thunder bird clapped her
wings as she swept through the clouds above him. The Record asserts that, "this is about as near
the truth as Butler ever gets," and then goes on to make some additional
statements which, to say the least, are exceedingly interesting, and
proofs of which the Editor's Table respectfully requests.

The Record says; "It is true that his (Butler's) name was proposed for the nomination for Vice
President in 1864."

Upon whose authority does this assertion rest, and by whom was General
Butler's name thus proposed?

The
Record says:-- "It is also true that he (Butler) heard of it, and objected to the plan not
for the reasons he now gives, but because he'didn't want to run
on the ticket with Abe Lincoln.'"

Intensely interesting this, an important fact it would seem for the
future historian.

But,-- will the Record please quote its authority?

The Record says:-- "That this was the ground for his (Butler's) refusal
to take the nomination, in case it should be offered to him, was well
known to those who were informed of the exact state of affairs at
the time."

The historian is still incredulous. All this "was well known to those who were informed," etc.,-- undoubtedly,
but who were these persons?

Will the Record cite the name of one living man thus informed? Did General George A. Gordon
know anything about it: and if not, why not?

The Record says:-- "Butler, in the last days of the war, uttered an
insult to the President who was shortly to be made a martyr."

Well, this is really a serious charge, and the public certainly will be interested in knowing what
the "insult" was. Will the Record kindly explain? For the present, the subject may rest here.
In the name of truth and justice, however, the Editor's Table humbly
requests that the Evening Record will enlighten its contemporaries.*****
The Republican newspapers have all been pleased to remark that President
Cleveland has done a very decent thing by refusing to appoint as post-master
at Mr. Blaine's home, in Augusta, the Democratic editor, who "was
virulently active in publishing particularly unclean falsehoods concerning
the Republican candidate last fall."

Mr. Blaine had a perfect right to object, and he exercised the right,
to the appointment of Morton; and likewise, the President had a perfect
right not to heed the objection,-- a right, however, which he did
not exercise.

The action of the President therefore commends itself to the right-thinking men of all parties. So
far as the Editor's Table can remember, this is the first opportunity that the Republican newspapers
have improved to say anything good of President Cleveland, who, it is not forgotten, was a
target for as virulent and uncalled for abuse as was ever heaped upon any known American citizen.
Magnanimity is always in order even in politics.***** Civil Service
Reform seems to-day to be the mare of the Mugwumps and the nightmare
of everybody else.

The eloquence or, if you please, the waste of words which the minority
employ in advocating its deceptive principles, is only to be contrasted
with the almost ludicrous indifference with which both Republican
and Democratic majorities regard it.

Thoughtful
people are, at this time, more concerned with the prospective treatment
of the tariff problem. Now, it is neither our purpose nor desire
to add to the literature of discussion, on this important theme; but
one thought which occurs to us may here be submitted in the form of
a question.

People who talk much on tariff topics are supposed to be interested
in the same, and to have some reason, good, bad, or indifferent, for
advancing their diverse arguments.

To all such, the inquiry may be addressed:-- Are you sure that you
believe in a "protective" tariff because you think it is a public
benefit, or because you think it is a private benefit?

And again:-- Does "protective" tariff protect? If it does,-- whom? Last autumn, the cry arose throughout
the land that free trade meant the destruction of home labor, and the "introduction of the pauper
labor of Europe," or at least a competition at home with the pauper
labor of Europe. Well, some very dismal pictures have been drawn of the condition
of the pauper labor of Europe, and when thinking of them, it must
be confessed that one does not like to run any risks.

But suppose that we widen the thought a little. At this very moment, the iron monopoly of this country
is raising a fund to head off a tariff revision, or to bring about
an increased duty.

What can be said of the Iron Monopoly? This, as one fact; that in
Pennsylvania, it employs miners at fourteen dollars a month, charges
them five dollars a month each for a tenement in which to live, and
charges them exorbitant prices for the food and provisions which,
in spite of a law prohibiting the system, must be purchased at the
Monopoly's stores.

At the end of the month, many of these miners have not only consumed every dollar of their wages
but are actually in debt. It is stated, further, as an incontestable
fact that, "a miner who objects to the amount of work or wages given
to him gets no more of either, for he is at once dropped from the
rolls, and his name is sent to the neighboring mines as that of a
man unlit for employment."

These people subsist-- miraculously-- on scanty and unwholesome food, and frequently are subjected
to the greatest hardships. We assert that this is no fanciful picture.

It is the absolute truth, with the worst untold.

Monopoly is fond of calling these pitiable men "Molly Maguires,"-- "a
dangerous class that must be carefully watched!" These men are protected,
and their industry and their entire living afford a charming picture
of the results of the "protective" system, so far as the Iron Monopoly
is concerned.

With such facts as these to ponder over, and with the additional knowledge that there is not a
single person today employed in a cotton or woolen mill in the United
States who is not taxed in the name of protection, to enrich the corporation
for whom he labors, it seems almost inexplicable that honest men should
neglect one of the greatest and, as God knows, one of the most threatening
problems of this age and country, and waste words and precious moments
over that most arrant humbug-- Civil Service Reform.

The People are more important than the Government: for to-day the Government is the politicians.*****
HISTORICAL RECORD. September 10.-- The seventy-second anniversary of our first great Naval
victory was celebrated at Newport, R. I. The most important incident
was the unveiling of the statue erected to the honor of its hero.

Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry. The order of exercises included a brilliant oration by the Hon.
William P. Sheffield, chairman of the Perry statue committee, this oration by courtesy of its author
being printed in full in this number of the Bay State Monthly; other addresses at the unveiling
were made by Governor George Peabody Wetmore and Mayor Robert S. Franklin. At the banquet among
the speakers were the Governor, Hon. George Bancroft, the historian,
Mayor Franklin, Judge Blatchford, Chief Justice Durfee, Admiral Rodgers,
and Admiral Almy.

The occasion was an exceedingly notable one. September 12.-- The two hundred and fiftieth anniversary
of the incorporation of the town of Concord, Mass., was celebrated with appropriate military and
civic exercises. There was first, a procession, reviewed by the
Governor and invited guests.

At the town hall an oration was delivered by Senator George F. Hoar, and other interesting literary
exercises took place, at the conclusion of which the line was reformed
and the march was taken up to the Hall where the dinner was served.

Judge John S. Keyes presided, and the principal after dinner speeches
were made by William M. Evarts, George William Curtis, George F.
Hoar, E. Rockwood Hoar, James Russell Lowell, and others.

September 15.-- The town of Hingham, Mass., celebrated the quarter millenial of its incorporation
as a town.

Business was generally suspended, and all the prominent residences and public buildings were
elaborately decorated. There was a procession at 11 A. M. to the "old meeting house." The order
of exercises at this place included an oration by Hon. Solomon Lincoln. A banquet was spread
in Agricultural Hail, attended by ex-governor Long and many other notables. The bells on all
the churches were rung at sunset and as darkness settled over the town, bonfires were lighted upon
Baker's, Otis, Planter's, Turkey, Liberty Pole and Prospect Hills.
The Hingham band gave an open air concert, and in the evening the
citizens and invited guests held a social reunion at the hall. September
16-- The annual Salisbury beach gathering opened and continued through
the 17th.

About five thousand persons attended.

The
exercises consisted of band concerts, base ball, illuminations, etc.
September 16.-- The great race in New York harbor between the Yankee
yacht "Puritan" and the English yacht "Genesta,"-- the second in the
contest was won by the former, thus deciding that the America's cup
shall remain in America.

The sailing tune was: Puritan, 5.03.

14: Genesta, 5.04. 52.***** OBITUARY. September 1.-- In Cohasset, Mass., Charles Faulkner of
the Boston and New York firm of Faulkner, Page& Co. September 6.-- In New Bedford, Mass., William
A. Wall, a well known artist. September 8.-- In Hanover, N. H., Edward A. Rollins of Philadelphia,
ex-commissioner of internal revenue. September 8.-- In Haverhill, Mass., Rev. Raymond H.
Seeley, D. D. a prominent Congregational clergyman. September 12.-- Jonathan Cartland of Lee,
Mass, died, aged seventy-six. He was one of the leading old guard of abolitionists, an uncompromising
prohibitory advocate, and a bosom friend and co-worker of Wendell Phillips. He held many important
town and county offices. He was a warm friend of the fleeing negroes from the South to Canada,
his home being the refuge for many, and often piloting them from
there by night to the Canadian border.

September 14.-- The death of Hon. Oliver Warner occurred at Lynn, Mass. He was the son of Oliver Warner
of Northampton, where he was born on April 17, 1818.

He was graduated at Williams College in 1842, and subsequently at Gilmanton Theological Seminary.
He officiated as a Congregational clergyman at Chesterfield from 1844 to 1846. In 1552 and 1853
he was a tutor at Williston Seminary, Easthampton. In 1854 and 1855 he served in the Massachusetts
House of Representatives, and in 1856 and 1857 in the Senate. He occupied the position of
secretary of state for eighteen years, retiring in 1876. His majority in 1872 was greater than any
other on the Republican ticket.

In 1875 considerable opposition was made to his election, the effect
of which was to lose him the Republican nomination and the office.

From 1876 to 1879 he filled the position of librarian of the State Library. In September, 1882, he married
Miss Newhall of Lynn, and departed on a six months'tour in Europe. September 16.-- Rev. Benjamin F.
Tefft, D. D., LL. D., a widely known Methodist divine, died, aged seventy two years, from a
shock of paralysis received on Friday. He was one of the ablest pulpit orators in the denomination,
has been a president of the Genesee College, editor of the Methodist Book concern and author of several
works. He was a member of the New York Geographical and Statistical Society, the Society of Arts of London,
etc. He was United States consul to Stockholm in 1862, and acting
minister to Sweden, and commissioner of emigration from Europe to
the state of Maine in 1864.

He has been in poor health the past two years. Dr. Tefft was the author of "Evolution and Christianity,"
published last Spring, a veritable encyclopaedia of Evolution-lore.*****
AMONG THE BOOKS.

A very notable contribution to the annals of our times is the publication
of the Writings and Speeches of Samuel L. Tilden [2] This contribution
is comprised in two volumes, and is so complete in itself as to ensure
a welcome from not only a large body of political sympathizers and
admirers but also from all students of American political history.

Mr. Tilden has the honor of being unquestionably the greatest
Democratic leader of recent years, and, in more ways than one, of being
a unique figure among the statesmen whom his country has produced. He
was born in New Lebanon, N. Y. 1814, and before he reached his majority
he began to discuss political questions in print and on the rostrum.

In these early, as well as in later years, he was in his instincts
a conservative; as time moved on, he grew more and more fond of the
democracy of Jefferson and of Jackson, and their democracy, it may
be said, has had, during the past quarter of a century, no more devoted
or worthier expounder and representative than Mr. Tilden.

No question of paramount interest has arisen that has not, from the
Democratic standpoint, received his attention.

When the nullifiers assaulted the Union he stood by it; whenever
anybody has undertaken to advocate the American "protection" system,
he has invariably denounced it as unconstitutional, in this respect
differing from another leading Democrat, General Butler.

Mr. Tilden also stood by the removal of the deposits from the United States Banks, advocated the
establishment of the Sub Treasury, and was the first to contend for
free banking.

He asserted the supervision of legislatures over charters of their
own creation.

He protested against the nationalization of slavery in 1848. These
few specifications of a general character, to say nothing of those
of special interest, indicate something of the wealth of thought and
expression contained within the covers of these volumes.

     
       
       Of the minor themes, one was exceedingly
     important in its day, and important also as a lesson for future municipalities,--
namely, the Tweed charter for New York city and the story of the destruction
of the Tweed ring.

     
       
       It is herein presented with the fullest details.
     Mr. Bigelow, the editor of the collection, has happily taken the
time for publication when Mr. Tilden has retired from active political
service; and thus the volumes may now be read with a less prejudiced
mind than in a former period of years.

It is impossible not to derive information and suggestions from a careful perusal of these discussions,
and inspiration from the dignity with which they are conducted; at the same time the reader is somehow
impressed in the perusal that Mr. Tilden is neither a great statesman per se, nor always a safe
one to follow. At this hour, it would be difficult to estimate the
influence which he has exerted upon the politics of his time.

The accident of a political defeat, rather than any extraordinary ability of his own, won for him
the remarkable and enthusiastic loyalty of his party, and perhaps
also a political immortality.

As is still remembered, he bore his defeat manfully and with a dignified grace unexampled in history,
when all the circumstances are considered, and this will be to his everlasting honor. During his
active participation in politics, Mr. Tilden was a partisan, in the best sense of that word, as every
man must be who lives and thinks under our system of government.

He cherished principles directly opposed to those of a host of his contemporaries, and this, too,
was a prerogative of his citizenship. Nevertheless, the integrity of his character was never
questioned, his motives were always honorable, his opinions were generally carefully conceded
and candidly asserted, his acts never savored of trickery. We wish as much could be said of many who
have professed admiration of the man, as well as of many who have
not scrupled to malign him to a merciless degree.

[Footnote 2: The Writings and Speeches of Samuel J. Tilden. Edited by John Bigelow In two volumes.
New York: Harper& Brothers. Price$ 6.00.]***** We have been particularly pleased with the
four volumes which are comprised in the "Garnet Series." [3]-- They are, to speak first of
their mechanical attractions, handsomely made, as regards paper, press-work and binding, and at once
tempt the reader to look within. The object of their publication is
to furnish in neat but low priced books choice reading to so called
Chautauqua circles; and thus far there is a promise of brilliant success.
The character of the contents of these volumes demands neither explanation
nor criticism at this time.

Readings from Ruskin is edited with a suitable introduction, by Prof.
H. A. Beers of Yale College, and the selections are made mostly from
the great writer's chapters pertaining to Italy.

The Readings from Macaulay also pertains to Italy, including the remarkable
essays on Dante, Petrarch and Machiavelli, and the Lays of Ancient
Rome, and is pleasantly "introduced" by Donald G. Mitchell.

An exceedingly timely volume is that entitled Art and the Formation
of Taste, by Lucy Crane, with illustrations drawn by Thomas and Walter
Crane.

It is one of the most inspiring and practical books on the subject
that have been written in our generation.

Charles C. Black's Michael Angelo contains within 275 pages the principal
facts of the great sculptor's life and labors, faithfully and appreciatively
recounted. It is, so far as it goes, declared to be a very valuable work.
We cannot too highly commend these publications. Every one of them
is an incentive to further reading and reflection.

[Footnote 3: THE GARNET SERIES;-- Readings from Ruskin-- Readings from Macauley-- Art and the Formation
of Taste-- Life and Works of Michel Angelo. 5 vols. Boston; The Chautauqua
Press.]***** Dr. George H. Moore is the superintendent of the Lenox
Library and a man who is not afraid to dip into old parchments and
musty records.

We wish that there were more of his kind. Students of our local annals are indebted to him for
the preparation and publication of two important and interesting brochures, which have recently
appeared. His Notes on the History of the old State House, [4] formerly known as "The Town House in Boston,"
"The Court House in Boston," "The Province Court House," "The State House," and "The City Hall" was
first read before the Bostonian Society, last May, and was listened to
with the closest attention.

The second brochure, embracing 120 pages, bears the title: Final notes on Witchcraft in Massachusetts
[5] and is a vindication of the laws and liberties concerning attainders with corruptions of Blood, Escheats,
forfeitures for crime and pardon of offenders, etc. This is the fifth pamphlet which Dr. Moore has
issued on the subject of Witchcraft in Massachusetts, and it concludes
the series.

We hope, at a future time, to be able to refer to them again, for they shed much light on our colonial history,
and to our historical literature constitute very valuable additions. [Footnote 4: Notes on the
History of the Old State House. By George H. Moore, LL. D. Boston: Cupples, Upham& Co. Paper.
50 cents.] [Footnote 5: Final notes on Witchcraft in Massachusetts.

By same author. New York: Printed for the author. Sold in Boston,
by Cupples, Upham& Co. Paper,$ 1.00.]***** Mr. Smith's recent work on
The Science of Business [6] should be read, and its facts and arguments
carefully weighed, by all men of business.

It professes to be a study of the principles controlling the laws of exchange. Reasoning from
analogies existing in the natural world, the author logically deduces his law that civilization
moves along lines of least resistance, and contends that this law
holds true throughout the phenomena of mind also.

The law of the survival of the fittest is but another expression of the subject under discussion.
"Do we not see civilization," asks the author, "advancing along those lines where the tractive
forces are the greatest, where the least labor will produce the largest
crops, and where the obstacles to complete living are the fewest?

Do not people invest their money where it will safely bring the largest returns? Do we not buy in the cheapest,
and sell in the dearest market? Does not the tide of immigration set from least favored nations
to the most favored?" There is still one other law,-- that motion is always rhythmical. These two principles
or laws Mr. Smith applies to his theories regarding general business,
the iron industry, the building of railroads, immigration, stocks,
exchange, foreign trade, etc. Indeed his theories are based on these
laws, and are worthy of consideration if not always of acceptance.

We quote one reflection:-- "If we admit that business motions are in the line of least resistance, and
rhythmic, and that these rhythms show a tendency to become balanced, we may conclude that panics
and periods of depression will always continue at intervals, with this qualification, the next period
of depression will not be as severe as the present, and the next less severe, and so on, until,
to all outward signs, they will at last cease." By reason of a lack
of space, we cannot say all that we had wished to say in regard to
this work.

It is, on the whole, a most ingenious argument, well conceived and brilliantly sustained. We are
not sure that Mr. Smith has not explained satisfactorily some of the nuggets of mystery which
have so long puzzled the brains of business men. [Footnote 6: The Science
of Business. By Roderick H. Smith, New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

Price$ 1.25.]***** PUBLISHER'S DEPARTMENT. An early forthcoming issue of the Bay State Monthly will contain
an elaborate article of great value upon the manufactures and various important industries of
"A Model Industrial City," for which fine illustrations are being prepared. Special invitation is extended
to all Public and private Libraries, Historical, Intellectual and
Literary Societies, as well as to every lover of New England, to join
their efforts with ours to the end that the Bay State Monthly shall
be a competent medium of preserving the great and rapidly increasing
amount of history pertaining to New England, and no less a worthy
representative of its literature and material progress.

We tender our thanks to the Holyoke Transcript for the very courteous aid rendered our management.
We desire to heartily thank the press of the entire country for the
cordial and appreciative welcome extended to the Bay State Monthly
since it has been published under its new management.

On an advertising page in this number are to be found a few comments,
selected from hundreds of similar notices given by representative
newspapers in nearly every state in the Union.***** They were yet in their own country, seated on the edge of a prairie, and back
of them as far as the eye could reach, there was nothing to be seen but the half melted snow;
no rocks, no trees, relieved the sameness of the view. On the opposite side of the Mississippi,
high bluffs, with their worn sides and broken rocks, hung over the river; and in the centre
of its waters lay the sacred isles, whose many trees and bushes wanted only the warm breath
of summer to display their luxuriance. The war chief commenced. He prophesied that they would
see deer on the next day, but that they must begin to be careful, for they would then have
entered their enemies' country. He told them how brave they were, and that he was braver still.
He told them the Chippeways were worse than prairie dogs. To all of which the warriors responded,
Ho!

When they found themselves near their enemies, the chief forbade a gun being fired off; no
straggling was allowed; none but the spies were to go beyond a certain distance from the party.

But after they entered the Chippeway country the duties of the war chief were still more important.
He had to prophesy where the enemy, was to be found, and about their number; and besides, he
had to charm the spirits of their enemies, that they might be unable to contend with the Dahcotahs.
The spirits on this occasion took the form of a bear.

About nine o'clock at night this ceremony commences. The warriors all lie down as if asleep,
when the war chief signifies the approach of the spirits to his men, by the earnestness of
his exertions in singing.

The song continues, and increases in energy as the spirit gets nearer to the hole in the ground,
which the chief dug and filled with water, previous to commencing his song. Near this hole
he placed a hoop, against which are laid all the war implements of the chief. Before the song
commences the warriors sit and look steadfastly at their leader. But when the spirit approaches
this hole, the warriors hardly dare breathe, for fear of frightening it away.

At last the spirit gets close to the hole. The war chief strikes it with his rattle and kills
it; this ensures to the Dahcotahs success in battle. And most solemnly did the Owl assert to
his soldiers, the fact that he had thus dealt with the bear spirit, while they as earnestly
believed it.

The next morning, four of the warriors went in advance as spies; one of them carried a pipe,
presented as an offering to deceive the spirits of their enemies. About noon they sat down
to rest, and waited until the remainder of the party came up. When they were all together again,
they rested and smoked; and other spies were appointed, who took the pipe and went forward again.

They had not proceeded far when they perceived signs of their enemies. In the sand near the
borders of a prairie were the footprints of Chippeways, and fresh too. They, congratulated
each other by looks, too cautious even to whisper. In a few moments a hundred Chippeways could
be called up, but still the Dahcotahs plunge into the thick forest that skirts the edge of
the prairie, in order to find out what prospect they have for delighting themselves with the
long wished for revenge.

It was not long before a group of Chippeways was discovered, all unapprehensive of evil. At
their camp the Chippeways had made pickets, for they knew they might expect retaliation; but
those who fell a sacrifice were not expecting their foes.

The spies were not far ahead--they returned to the party, and then retraced their steps. The
low cries of animals were imitated to prevent any alarm being given by the breaking of a twig
or the rustling of the leaves. They were very near the Chippeways, when the war chief gave
the signal on a bone whistle, and the Dahcotahs fired. Every one of the Chippeways fell--two
men, three women, and two children.

Then came the tomahawk and scalping knife--the former to finish the work of death, the latter
to bear a trophy to their country, to say, Our comrades are avenged. Nor was that all. The
bodies were cut to pieces, and then the warriors commenced their homeward journey.

They allowed themselves but little rest until they were out of their enemies' country. But
when they were out of the reach of attack, when their feet trod again upon Dahcotah soil, then
they stopped to stretch each scalp on a hoop, which was attached to a slender pole. This is
always the work of the war chief.

They look eagerly for the welcome sight of home. The cone-shaped teepees rise before their
view. They know that their young wives will rejoice to see the scalps, as much as to know that
the wanderers have returned.

When they are near their village the war chief raises the song of victory; the other warriors
join their voices to his. The welcome sound rouses the inhabitants of the village from their
duties or amusements. The warriors enter the village in triumph, one by one, each bearing the
scalp he took; and the stout warrior, the aged woman, and the feeble child, all press forward
to feast their eyes with the sight of the scalps.

There was a jubilee in the village for weeks. Day and night did the savages dance round the
scalps. But how soon may their rejoicings be lost in cries of terror! Even now they tremble
at the sound of their own voices when evening draws near--for it is their turn to suffer. They
expect their foes, but they do not dread them the less.

CHAPTER II.

Many of the customs of the Dahcotahs are to be attributed to their superstitions. Their teepees
are always made of buffalo-skins; nothing would induce them to use deer-skin for that purpose.
Many years ago a woman made a teepee of deer-skin; and was taken suddenly ill, and died immediately
after. Some reason must be found for the cause of her death, and as no other was known, the
Indians concluded that she brought her death upon herself by using deer-skin for her teepee.
They have always, since, used buffalo-skin for that purpose.

Nothing would induce a Dahcotah woman to look into a looking-glass; for the medicine men say
that death will be the consequence.

But there is no superstition which influences them more than their belief in Haokah, or the
Giant. They say this being is possessed of superhuman powers: indeed he is deemed so powerful,
as to be able to take the thunder in his hand and cast it to the ground. He dresses in many
colors, and wears a forked hat. One side of his face is red, the other blue, his eyes are also
of different colors. Brother Shoveller did not seem to entertain a very high opinion of the
monks of Saint Grimbald, and he asked the boys whether they were
expected there.

"No," they said; "tidings of their father's death had been sent by one of the woodmen, and
the only answer that had been returned was that Master Richard Birkenholt was ill at ease, but
would have masses said for his brother's soul."

"Hem?" said the Augustinian ominously; but at that moment they came up with the sheep, and his attention
was wholly absorbed by them, as he joined the lay brothers in directing the shepherds who were
driving them across the downs, steering them over the high ground towards the arched West Gate close
to the royal castle. The street sloped rapidly down, and Brother Shoveller conducted his young
companions between the overhanging houses, with stalls between serving as shops, till they reached
the open space round the Market Cross, on the steps of which women
sat with baskets of eggs, butter, and poultry, raised above the motley
throng of cattle and sheep, with their dogs and drivers, the various
cries of man and beast forming an incongruous accompaniment to the
bells of the churches that surrounded the market-place.

Citizens'wives in hood and wimple were there, shrilly bargaining for provision for their households,
squires and grooms in quest of hay for their masters'stables, purveyors seeking food for the
garrison, lay brethren and sisters for their convents, and withal,
the usual margin of begging friars, wandering gleemen, jugglers and
pedlars, though in no great numbers, as this was only a Wednesday
market-day, not a fair.

Ambrose recognised one or two who made part of the crowd at Beaulieu only two days previously, when
he had "seen through tears the juggler leap," and the jingling tune one of them was playing
on a rebeck brought back associations of almost unbearable pain. Happily, Father Shoveller,
having seen his sheep safely bestowed in a pen, bethought him of
bidding the lay brother in attendance show the young gentlemen the
way to Hyde Abbey, and turning up a street at right angles to the
principal one, they were soon out of the throng.

When the feast was over, however, the skill of their doctors was in requisition; for almost
all of them were made quite ill by excess, and were seen at evening lying at full length on
the ground, groaning and writhing with pain.

CHAPTER III. 

I went over and over that old Norse story: how the Paladin, Ogier, one of the knights of Charlemagne,
was decoyed during his homeward wanderings from the Holy Land by the arts of an enchantress,
the same who had once held in bondage the great Emperor Caesar and given him King Oberon for a
son; how Ogier had tarried in that island only one day and one night, and yet, when he came
home to his kingdom, he found all changed, his friends dead, his family dethroned, and not a
man who knew his face; until at last, driven hither and thither like a beggar, a poor minstrel
had taken compassion of his sufferings and given him all he could
give-- a song, the song of the prowess of a hero dead for hundreds
of years, the Paladin Ogier the Dane.

The story of Ogier ran into a dream, as vivid as my waking thoughts had been vague. I was looking
no longer at the pool of moonlight spreading round my couch, with
its trickles of light and looming, waving shadows, but the frescoed
walls of a great saloon.

It was not, as I recognized in a second, the dining-room of that Venetian palace now turned
into a boarding-house.

It was a far larger room, a real ballroom, almost circular in its octagon shape, with eight huge
white doors surrounded by stucco moldings, and, high on the vault of the ceiling, eight little
galleries or recesses like boxes at a theatre, intended no doubt
for musicians and spectators.

The place was imperfectly lighted by only one of the eight chandeliers, which revolved slowly,
like huge spiders, each on its long cord.
Each wants to be the greatest god of the Dahcotahs, and they have had many battles. My father
was a great medicine man; he was killed many years ago, and his spirit wandered about the earth.
The Thunder-bird wanted him, and Unk-ta-he wanted him, for they said he would make a wonderful
medicine man. Some of the sons of Unk-ta-he fought against the sons of the Thunder, and the
young thunder-birds were killed, and then Unk-ta-he took the spirit of my father, to teach
him many mysterious things.

"When my father had lived a long time with Unk-ta-he in the waters under the earth, he took
the form of a Dahcotah again, and lived in this village. He taught me all that I know, and
when I go to the land of spirits, my son must dance alone all night, and he will learn from
me the secret of the medicine of our clan." 

Of course there is no room for Gentiles in the Mormon Heaven, excepting as hewers of wood and
drawers of water to some Mormon saint.

The fanatical followers of the priesthood are filled with the superstitions of the old world,
coming, as so many do from the lowest classes of Great Britain and
Scandinavia, fit subjects for all the mummery imposed upon them in
the name of religion.

Brigham Young is often quoted as saying, that he had gathered around him a set of people that
his satanic majesty himself would not have. Even after polygamy had been openly proclaimed
in Utah, their missionaries utterly repudiated it, and in pursuance
of private orders of the prophet they positively asserted that it
was not a tenet of the church.

They were afraid of bringing upon themselves the condemnation of foreign governments; but the ignorant
offshoots of European Monarchies openly commit acts here, that they boast if perpetrated in their
own land, would bring down upon them the severest penalties of the
law.

The perfect indifference and apathy of our government for so many years, however, has given the
Mormons sufficient justification for their attitude. Abroad, not only their own security,
but the large emigration which they sought and do secure yearly, rendered necessary a great
deal of deceit. Men honest and fair-dealing in other respects have a twisted conscience in
regard to plural marriage.

As a Mormon woman said, "A polygamist is the most ingenious liar imaginable." In the earlier days
on their arrival in Zion, when securely in the toils, their money
in the hands of the elders, too far in the wilderness to make hope
of return possible, these people have awakened to the horrors of the
system, and women on the day of their arrival were hurried to the
Endowment House to swell the number of polygamic wives in the land.

Perhaps of all the women in Utah those who live in constant terror of their husbands entering
polygamy are the most to be pitied.

These plural marriages are performed in private in the Endowment House, a building in the same
enclosure with the Tabernacle and Temple.

Here they take oaths of allegiance to the church that absolve them from obedience to the laws
of our country, when they conflict with their laws.

They consider their obligations to their religion such that they perjure themselves on the
witness stand in the most unblushing manner. They thus defeat the
attempts to gain evidence of their marriages.

Apostates, since the protection given to them by United States troops and the moral support
of the Gentiles, have revealed many of the secrets of this place. This apostacy at any previous
period of their history would have cost them their lives, as they take the most solemn oaths never
to betray this most absurd and sacrilegious performance. The Endowment House is arranged to
represent the Garden of Eden. The permanent Adam and Eve of the establishment are a man and woman
prominent in the church.

A well known public functionary who performs the ceremony represents God, while his satanic majesty
fulfils his own appropriate functions.

The ordeal lasts from nine in the morning until three in the afternoon, and one or more wives
can be taken at one ceremony.

The Miles case which attained such notoriety in Utah a short time ago was one not altogether
uncommon, in which a young girl engaged to a Mormon Elder in London accompanied him to this
country to have the marriage ceremony performed by the fathers of the church. On their way thither
the elder felt constrained to tell this young convert that he had already made promises of marriage
to two Danish sisters who were awaiting him in Zion; but he assured her that though he felt
obliged to fulfil all his vows yet she should be his first and only legal wife. She reluctantly
consented to this humiliating compromise and on his arrival in Salt
Lake he took the three maidens to the Endowment House and they were
in turn married to him. She then placed the dish near the fish in the river, and entreated
the fish to go to its own elements, and not to obstruct the passage of the river and give them
so much trouble.

"The fish obeyed, and settled down in the water, and has never since been seen.

"The woman who made this request of the fish, was loved by him when he was a Dahcotah, and
for that reason he obeyed her wishes."

Nor was this the only legend with which he amused his listeners. The night was half spent when
they separated to rest, with as firm a faith in the stories of the old medicine man, as we
have in the annals of the Revolution.

THE MAIDEN'S ROCK;

OR,

WENONA'S LEAP.

Lake Pepin is a widening of the Mississippi river. It is about twenty miles in length, and
from one to two miles wide.

The country along its banks is barren. The lake has little current, but is dangerous for steamboats
in a high wind. It is not deep, and abounds in fish, particularly the sturgeon. On its shores
the traveller gathers white and red agates, and sometimes specimens streaked with veins of
gold color. The lover reads the motto from his mistress' seal, not thinking that the beautiful
stone which made the impression, was found on the banks of Lake Pepin.

At the south end of the lake, the Chippeway river empties into the Mississippi.

The Maiden's rock is a high bluff, whose top seems to lean over towards the water. With this
rock is associated one of the most interesting traditions of the Sioux.

But the incident is well-known. Almost every one has read it a dozen times, and always differently
told. Some represent the maiden as delivering an oration from the top of the rock, long enough
for an address at a college celebration. It has been stated that she fell into the water, a
circumstance which the relative situation of the rock and river would render impossible.

Writers have pretended, too, that the heroine of the rock was a Winnebago. It is a mistake,
the maiden was a Dahcotah.

It was from the Dahcotahs that I obtained the incident, and they believe that it really occurred.
They are offended if you suggest the possibility of its being a fiction. Indeed they fix a
date to it, reckoning by the occurrences of great battles, or other events worthy of notice.

But to the story--and I wish I could throw into it the feeling, and energy of the old medicine
woman who related it.

About one hundred and fifty years ago, the band of Dahcotahs to which Wenona belonged, lived
near Fort Snelling. Their village was on the site now occupied by Good Road's band.

The whole band made preparations to go below Lake Pepin, after porcupines. These animals are
of great value among the Dahcotahs; their flesh is considered excellent as an article of food,
and the women stain their quills to ornament the dresses of the men, their mocassins, and many
other articles in use among them. A young girl of this band had received repeated offers of
marriage from a Dahcotah, whom she hated with the same degree of intensity that she loved his
rival.

She dared not marry the object of her choice, for she knew it would subject herself and him
to the persecutions of her family. She declared she never would consent to be the wife of the
man whom her parents had chosen for her, though he was young and brave, and, what is most valued
by the friends of an Indian girl, he was said to be the best hunter of the tribe.

"Marry him, my daughter," said the mother, "your father is old; he cannot now hunt deer for
you and me, and what shall we do for food? Chaskè will hunt the deer and buffalo, and we shall
be comfortable and happy."

"Yes," said her father, "your mother speaks well. Chaskè is a great warrior too. When your
brother died, did he not kill his worst enemy and hang up his scalp at his grave?"

But Wenona persevered in her refusal. "I do not love him, I will not marry him," was her constant
reply.

But Chaskè, trusting to time and her parent's influence, was not discouraged. He killed game
and supplied the wants of the family. Besides, he had twice bought her, according to Indian custom.

He had given her parents cloth and blankets, calico and guns. The girl entreated them not to
receive them, but the lover refused to take them back, and, finally, they were taken into the
wigwam.

Just as the band was about leaving the village for the hunt, he came again with many presents;
whatever would make the family comfortable on their journey, and a decided promise was then
given that the maiden should become his wife.

She knew it would be useless to contend, so she seemed to be willing to submit to her fate. I
feel as if some danger pursued me here (can it be fever?); and yet, and yet, I don't see how
I shall ever tear myself away.

Dec. 10th.-- I have made an effort, and accepted the Vice-Prefect's
son's invitation to see the oil-making at a villa of theirs near the
coast.

The villa, or farm, is an old fortified, towered place, standing on a hillside among olive-trees and little
osier-bushes, which look like a bright orange flame.

The olives are squeezed in a tremendous black cellar, like a prison: you see, by the faint white
daylight, and the smoky yellow flare of resin burning in pans, great
white bullocks moving round a huge millstone; vague figures working
at pulleys and handles: it looks, to my fancy, like some scene of
the Inquisition.

The Cavaliere regaled me with his best wine and rusks. I took some long walks by the seaside; I
had left Urbania wrapped in snow-clouds; down on the coast there was a bright sun; the sunshine,
the sea, the bustle of the little port on the Adriatic seemed to do
me good. I came back to Urbania another man.

Sor Asdrubale, my landlord, poking about in slippers among the gilded chests, the Empire sofas,
the old cups and saucers and pictures which no one will buy, congratulated me upon the improvement
in my looks. "You work too much," he says; "youth requires amusement,
theatres, promenades, amori-- it is time enough to be serious when
one is bald"-- and he took off his greasy red cap.

Yes, I am better! and, as a result, I take to my work with delight again. I will cut them out
still, those wiseacres at Berlin! Dec. 14th.-- I don't think I have ever felt so happy about my work.
I see it all so well-- that crafty, cowardly Duke Robert; that melancholy Duchess Maddalena; that
weak, showy, would-be chivalrous Duke Guidalfonso; and above all, the splendid figure of Medea.
I feel as if I were the greatest historian of the age; and, at the
same time, as if I were a boy of twelve.

It snowed yesterday for the first time in the city, for two good hours. When it had done,
I actually went into the square and taught the ragamuffins to make
a snowman; no, a snow-woman; and I had the fancy to call her Medea.

"La pessima Medea!" cried one of the boys-- "the one who used to
ride through the air on a goat?"

"No, no," I said; "she was a beautiful lady, the Duchess of Urbania,
the most beautiful woman that ever lived."

I made her a crown of tinsel, and taught the boys to cry "Evviva, Medea!"
But one of them said, "She is a witch! She must be burnt!" At which they all
rushed to fetch burning faggots and tow; in a minute the yelling
demons had melted her down.

Dec. 15th.-- What a goose I am, and to think I am twenty-four, and known in literature! In my
long walks I have composed to a tune (I don't know what it is) which
all the people are singing and whistling in the street at present,
a poem in frightful Italian, beginning "Medea, mia dea," calling on
her in the name of her various lovers.

I go about humming between my teeth, "Why am I not Marcantonio?
or Prinzivalle? or he of Narni? or the good Duke Alfonso? that I might
be beloved by thee, Medea, mia dea,"& c.& c. Awful rubbish!

My landlord, I think, suspects that Medea must be some lady I met while
I was staying by the seaside.

I am sure Sora Serafina, Sora Lodovica, and Sora Adalgisa-- the three Parcae or Norns, as I call
them-- have some such notion. This afternoon, at dusk, while tidying my room, Sora Lodovica said
to me, "How beautifully the Signorino has taken to singing!"

I was scarcely aware that I had been vociferating, "Vieni, Medea, mia dea," while the old lady
bobbed about making up my fire.

I stopped; a nice reputation I shall get!

I thought, and all this will somehow get to Rome, and thence to Berlin. Sora Lodovica was leaning
out of the window, pulling in the iron hook of the shrine-lamp which marks
Sor Asdrubale's house. As she was trimming the lamp previous to swinging
it out again, she said in her odd, prudish little way, "You are wrong
to stop singing, my son"

(she varies between calling me Signor Professore and such terms of affection as "Nino," "Viscere
mie,"& c.); "you are wrong to stop singing, for there is a young lady there in the street who has
actually stopped to listen to you." I ran to the window. A woman,
wrapped in a black shawl, was standing in an archway, looking up
to the window.

"Eh, eh! the Signor Professore has admirers," said Sora Lodovica. "Medea, mia dea!" I burst out
as loud as I could, with a boy's pleasure in disconcerting the inquisitive passer-by. She
turned suddenly round to go away, waving her hand at me; at that moment Sora Lodovica swung
the shrine-lamp back into its place. A stream of light fell across the street. I felt myself
grow quite cold; the face of the woman outside was that of Medea da Carpi! What a fool I am,
to be sure! Part II Dec. 17th.-- I fear that my craze about Medea da Carpi has become well known,
thanks to my silly talk and idiotic songs. That Vice-Prefect's son-- or the assistant at the Archives,
or perhaps some of the company at the Contessa's, is trying to play me a trick! But take care, my
good ladies and gentlemen, I shall pay you out in your own coin!

Imagine my feelings when, this morning, I found on my desk a folded letter addressed to me in a
curious handwriting which seemed strangely familiar to me, and which,
after a moment, I recognized as that of the letters of Medea da Carpi
at the Archives.

It gave me a horrible shock. My next idea was that it must be a present from some one who knew
my interest in Medea-- a genuine letter of hers on which some idiot
had written my address instead of putting it into an envelope.

But it was addressed to me, written to me, no old letter; merely
four lines, which ran as follows:-- "To Spiridion.--"

A person who knows the interest you bear her will be at the Church of San Giovanni Decollato
this evening at nine. Look out, in the left aisle, for a lady wearing a black mantle, and holding
a rose. "By this time I understood that I was the object of a conspiracy, the victim of a hoax.
I turned the letter round and round. It was written on paper such as was made in the sixteenth
century, and in an extraordinarily precise imitation of Medea da
Carpi's characters.

Who had written it?

I thought over all the possible people.

On the whole, it must be the Vice-Prefect's son, perhaps in combination
with his lady-love, the Countess.

They must have torn a blank page off some old letter; but that either of them should have had the
ingenuity of inventing such a hoax, or the power of committing such a forgery, astounds me beyond
measure. There is more in these people than I should have guessed. How pay them off? By taking
no notice of the letter? Dignified, but dull. No, I will go; perhaps some one will be there, and
I will mystify them in their turn. Or, if no one is there, how I shall crow over them for their
imperfectly carried out plot!

Perhaps this is some folly of the Cavalier Muzio's to bring me into the presence of some lady whom
he destines to be the flame of my future amori. That is likely enough.
And it would be too idiotic and professorial to refuse such an invitation;
the lady must be worth knowing who can forge sixteenth-century letters
like this, for I am sure that languid swell Muzio never could.

I will go! By Heaven! I'll pay them back in their own coin! It is
now five-- how long these days are!

Dec. 18th.-- Am I mad?

Or are there
really ghosts? That adventure of last night has shaken me to the very
depth of my soul.

I went at nine, as the mysterious letter had bid me.

It was bitterly cold, and the air full of fog and sleet; not a shop open, not a window unshuttered,
not a creature visible; the narrow black streets, precipitous between
their, high walls and under their lofty archways, were only the blacker
for the dull light of an oil-lamp here and there, with its flickering
yellow reflection on the wet flags.

San Giovanni Decollato is a little church, or rather oratory, which I have always hitherto seen shut
up (as so many churches here are shut up except on great festivals);
and situate behind the ducal palace, on a sharp ascent, and forming
the bifurcation of two steep paved lanes.

I have passed by the place a hundred times, and scarcely noticed the little church, except for the
marble high relief over the door, showing the grizzly head of the Baptist in the charger, and
for the iron cage close by, in which were formerly exposed the heads
of criminals; the decapitated, or, as they call him here, decollated,
John the Baptist, being apparently the patron of axe and block.

A few strides took me from my lodgings to San Giovanni Decollato. I confess I was excited; one
is not twenty-four and a Pole for nothing. On getting to the kind of little platform at the bifurcation
of the two precipitous streets, I found, to my surprise, that the windows of the church or oratory were
not lighted, and that the door was locked!

So this was the precious joke that had been played upon me; to send me on a bitter cold, sleety
night, to a church which was shut up and had perhaps been shut up for years! I don't know what
I couldn't have done in that moment of rage; I felt inclined to break open the church door, or
to go and pull the Vice-Prefect's son out of bed (for I felt sure that the joke was his). I determined
upon the latter course; and was walking towards his door, along the
black alley to the left of the church, when I was suddenly stopped
by the sound as of an organ close by, an organ, yes, quite plainly,
and the voice of choristers and the drone of a litany.

So the church was not shut, after all! I retraced my steps to the
top of the lane.

All was dark and in complete silence.

Suddenly there came again a faint gust of organ and voices. I listened; it clearly came from
the other lane, the one on the right-hand side.

Was there, perhaps, another door there? I passed beneath the archway, and descended a little
way in the direction whence the sounds seemed to come. But no door,
no light, only the black walls, the black wet flags, with their faint
yellow reflections of flickering oil-lamps; moreover, complete silence.
I stopped a minute, and then the chant rose again; this time it seemed
to me most certainly from the lane I had just left.

I went back-- nothing. Thus backwards and forwards, the sounds always beckoning, as it were,
one way, only to beckon me back, vainly, to the other. At last I lost patience; and I felt a sort
of creeping terror, which only a violent action could dispel. If the mysterious sounds came
neither from the street to the right, nor from the street to the
left, they could come only from the church. Half-maddened, I rushed
up the two or three steps, and prepared to wrench the door open with
a tremendous effort. To my amazement, it opened with the greatest ease. I
entered, and the sounds of the litany met me louder than before, as I paused
a moment between the outer door and the heavy leathern curtain.

       

I raised the latter and crept in. The altar was brilliantly illuminated with tapers and garlands
of chandeliers; this was evidently some evening service connected with Christmas. The nave and
aisles were comparatively dark, and about half-full. I elbowed my way along the right aisle
towards the altar. When my eyes had got accustomed to the unexpected light, I began to look round me,
and with a beating heart. The idea that all this was a hoax, that I
should meet merely some acquaintance of my friend the Cavaliere's,
had somehow departed: I looked about.

The people were all wrapped up, the men in big cloaks, the women in woolen veils and mantles.
The body of the church was comparatively dark, and I could not make out anything very clearly,
but it seemed to me, somehow, as if, under the cloaks and veils, these people were dressed
in a rather extraordinary fashion. The man in front of me, I remarked,
showed yellow stockings beneath his cloak; a woman, hard by, a red
bodice, laced behind with gold tags.

Could these be peasants from some remote part come for the Christmas festivities, or did the inhabitants
of Urbania don some old-fashioned garb in honor of Christmas? As I was wondering, my eye suddenly
caught that of a woman standing in the opposite aisle, close to the altar, and in the full blaze
of its lights. She was wrapped in black, but held, in a very conspicuous way, a red rose, an unknown
luxury at this time of the year in a place like Urbania.

She evidently saw me, and turning even more fully into the light, she loosened her heavy black cloak,
displaying a dress of deep red, with gleams of silver and gold embroideries; she turned her
face towards me; the full blaze of the chandeliers and tapers fell upon it. It was the face of Medea da Carpi!
I dashed across the nave, pushing people roughly aside, or rather, it seemed to me, passing through
impalpable bodies.

But the lady turned and walked rapidly down the aisle towards the door. I followed close upon her,
but somehow I could not get up with her. Once, at the curtain, she turned round again. She was
within a few paces of me. Yes, it was Medea.

Medea herself, no mistake, no delusion, no sham; the oval face, the lips tightened over the mouth, the eyelids
tight over the corner of the eyes, the exquisite alabaster complexion! She raised the curtain
and glided out. I followed; the curtain alone separated me from her. I saw the wooden door
swing to behind her. One step ahead of me! I tore open the door; she must be on the steps, within reach
of my arm! I stood outside the church. All was empty, merely the wet pavement and the yellow reflections
in the pools: a sudden cold seized me; I could not go on.

I tried to re-enter the church; it was shut. I rushed home, my hair standing on end, and trembling
in all my limbs, and remained for an hour like a maniac. Is it a delusion? Am I too going mad?
O God, God! am I going mad? Dec. 19th.-- A brilliant, sunny day; all the black snow-slush has disappeared
out of the town, off the bushes and trees. The snow-clad mountains sparkle against the bright blue sky.
A Sunday, and Sunday weather; all the bells are ringing for the approach of Christmas. They are preparing
for a kind of fair in the square with the colonnade, putting up booths filled with colored cotton
and woolen ware, bright shawls and kerchiefs, mirrors, ribbons, brilliant pewter lamps; the
whole turn-out of the peddler in" Winter's Tale. "The pork-shops are all garlanded with green
and with paper flowers, the hams and cheeses stuck full of little flags
and green twigs. I strolled out to see the cattle-fair outside the gate;
a forest of interlacing horns, an ocean of lowing and stamping: hundreds
of immense white bullocks, with horns a yard long and red tassels,
packed close together on the little piazza d'armi under the city
walls.

Bah! Why do I write this trash? What's the use of it all? While I am forcing myself to write about
bells, and Christmas festivities, and cattle-fairs, one idea goes on like a bell within me:
Medea, Medea! Have I really seen her, or am I mad? Two hours later.--
That Church of San Giovanni Decollato-- so my landlord informs me--
has not been made use of within the memory of man.

Could it have been all a hallucination or a dream-- perhaps a dream dreamed that night? I have
been out again to look at that church. There it is, at the bifurcation of the two steep lanes,
with its bas-relief of the Baptist's head over the door. The door does look as if it had not been
opened for years. I can see the cobwebs in the windowpanes; it does look as if, as Sor Asdrubale
says, only rats and spiders congregated within it. And yet-- and yet; I have so clear a remembrance,
so distinct a consciousness of it all.

There was a picture of the daughter of Herodias dancing, upon the altar; I remember her white
turban with a scarlet tuft of feathers, and Herod's blue caftan;
I remember the shape of the central chandelier; it swung round slowly,
and one of the wax lights had got bent almost in two by the heat and
draught.

Things, all these, which I may have seen elsewhere, stored unawares in my brain, and which
may have come out, somehow, in a dream; I have heard physiologists allude to such things. I will
go again: if the church be shut, why then it must have been a dream,
a vision, the result of over-excitement.

I must leave at once for Rome and see doctors, for I am afraid of going mad. If, on the other
hand-- pshaw! there is no other hand in such a case.

Yet if there were-- why then, I should really have seen Medea; I
might see her again; speak to her.

The mere thought sets my blood in a whirl, not with horror, but with... I know not what to call
it. The feeling terrifies me, but it is delicious. Idiot! There is some little coil of my brain,
the twentieth of a hair's-breadth out of order-- that's all! Dec. 20th.-- I have been again;
I have heard the music; I have been inside the church; I have seen
Her!

I can no longer doubt my senses.

Why should I? Those pedants say that the dead are dead, the past is past. For them, yes; but why
for me?-- why for a man who loves, who is consumed with the love of a woman?-- a woman who,
indeed-- yes, let me finish the sentence.

Why should there not be ghosts to such as can see them? Why should she not return to the earth,
if she knows that it contains a man who thinks of, desires, only
her? A hallucination? Why, I saw her, as I see this paper that I write
upon; standing there, in the full blaze of the altar.

Why, I heard the rustle of her skirts, I smelt the scent of her hair, I raised the curtain which
was shaking from her touch. Again I missed her. But this time, as I rushed out into the empty
moonlit street, I found upon the church steps a rose-- the rose which I had seen in her hand the moment
before-- I felt it, smelt it; a rose, a real, living rose, dark red and only just plucked. I put
it into water when I returned, after having kissed it, who knows how many times? I placed it
on the top of the cupboard; I determined not to look at it for twenty-four hours lest it should
be a delusion.

But I must see it again; I must.... Good Heavens! this is horrible, horrible;
if I had found a skeleton it could not have been worse!

The rose, which last night seemed freshly plucked, full of color and perfume, is brown, dry-- a thing
kept for centuries between the leaves of a book-- it has crumbled into dust between my fingers.
Horrible, horrible! But why so, pray?

Did I not know that I was in love with a woman dead three hundred
years?

If I wanted fresh roses which bloomed yesterday, the Countess Fiammetta
or any little sempstress in Urbania might have given them me.

       What if the rose has fallen to dust? If only I could hold Medea in my arms as
I held it in my fingers, kiss her lips as I kissed its petals, should
I not be satisfied if she too were to fall to dust the next moment,
if I were to fall to dust myself?

Dec. 22nd, Eleven at night.-- I have seen her once more!-- almost spoken to her. I have been
promised her love! Ah, Spiridion! you were right when you felt that you were not made for any
earthly amori. At the usual hour I betook myself this evening to San Giovanni Decollato. A
bright winter night; the high houses and belfries standing out against
a deep blue heaven luminous, shimmering like steel with myriads of
stars; the moon has not yet risen.

There was no light in the windows; but, after a little effort, the
door opened and I entered the church, the altar, as usual, brilliantly
illuminated.

It struck me suddenly that all this crowd of men and women standing all round, these priests chanting
and moving about the altar, were dead-- that they did not exist for
any man save me.

I touched, as if by accident, the hand of my neighbor; it was cold, like wet clay. He turned
round, but did not seem to see me: his face was ashy, and his eyes staring, fixed, like those of a blind
man or a corpse. I felt as if I must rush out. But at that moment my eye fell upon Her, standing
as usual by the altar steps, wrapped in a black mantle, in the full blaze of the lights. She turned
round; the light fell straight upon her face, the face with the delicate
features, the eyelids and lips a little tight, the alabaster skin
faintly tinged with pale pink.

Our eyes met. I pushed my way across the nave towards where she stood by the altar steps; she
turned quickly down the aisle, and I after her.

Once or twice she lingered, and I thought I should overtake her;
but again, when, not a second after the door had closed upon her,
I stepped out into the street, she had vanished.

On the church step lay something white. It was not a flower this time, but a letter. I rushed
back to the church to read it; but the church was fast shut, as if
it had not been opened for years.

I could not see by the flickering shrine-lamps-- I rushed home, lit my lamp, pulled the letter
from my breast. I have it before me. The handwriting is hers; the same as in the Archives, the
same as in that first letter:--" To Spiridion.-- "Let thy courage be equal to thy love, and thy
love shall be rewarded. On the night preceding Christmas, take a hatchet and saw; cut boldly into the
body of the bronze rider who stands in the Corte, on the left side,
near the waist.

Saw open the body, and within it thou wilt find the silver effigy of a winged genius. Take it
out, hack it into a hundred pieces, and fling them in all directions, so that the winds may sweep
them away. That night she whom thou lovest will come to reward thy fidelity." On the brownish
wax is the device-- "AMOUR DURE-- DURE AMOUR." Dec. 23rd.-- So it is
true! I was reserved for something wonderful in this world. I have at last
found that after which my soul has been straining. Ambition, love
of art, love of Italy, these things which have occupied my spirit,
and have yet left me continually unsatisfied, these were none of them
my real destiny. But he had never seen her eat; and when he would tell her that he did
not like to eat alone, and beg her to sit down and eat with him, she would say she was not
hungry; and then employ herself about her wigwam, as if she did not wish him to say any more
about it.

Chaskè made up his mind that he would find out what his wife lived upon. So the next morning
he took his bow and arrows, as if he were going out on a day's hunt. After going a short distance
from the lodge, he hid himself in the trees, where he could watch the motions of his wife.

She left the lodge after a while, and with an axe in her hand she approached a grove of poplar
trees. After carefully looking round to satisfy herself that there was no one near, she cut
down a number of the small and tender poplars, and, carrying them home, ate them as if she
enjoyed them very much. Chaskè was infinitely relieved when he saw that his wife did eat; for
it frightened him to think that she lived on nothing but air. But it was so droll to think
she should eat young trees! surely venison was a great deal better.

But, like a good husband, he thought it was his duty to humor his wife's fancies. And then
he loved her tenderly--he had given up country and home for her. She was so good and kind,
and her beautiful hair! Chaskè called her "The Mocassin Flower," for her golden ringlets reminded
him of that beautiful flower. "She shall not have to cut the trees down herself," said Chaskè,
"I will bring her food while she prepares mine." Then she turned on her neighbors such a challenging
and haughty look, that a great silence fell on the company and they all lowered their eyes except
Loiseau, who kept on watching her with an exhilarated air.

But soon the conversation was resumed between the three ladies, whom the presence of this girl
had suddenly made friends, almost intimates. It seemed to them that they should form a sort
of "fasces" of their conjugal dignities in the presence of this shameless mercenary; for legalized
love always looks down on its free brother.

The three men, also drawn closer by an instinct of conservation at the sight of Cornudet, spoke of
money matters with an expression of contempt for the poor. Count Hubert related the damage
done to his property by the Prussians, the losses that would result
from their stealing of a tenfold millionaire grand Seigneur whom such
reverses would hardly incommodate for one year.

Mr. Carre-Lamadon, who had suffered serious losses in his cotton business, had taken the precaution
of sending six hundred thousand francs to England, a provision for rainy days which would enable
him to meet emergencies.

As to Loiseau, he had found a way of selling to the French Quartermaster's Office all the low
grade wines he had in stock, so that the Government owed him a tremendous
sum, which he expected to cash in time at Havre.

And all three cast at each other quick and friendly glances.

Although belonging to different social sets, they felt united in the brotherhood of money, the
great freemasonry of those who possess, who jingle gold when they put their hands in the pockets
of their trousers.

The coach was making such slow headway that at ten o'clock A. M. they had traveled only four
leagues. The men got off three times and walked up the hills. They
began to feel uneasy, because they expected to have luncheon in Totes
and now there was hardly any possibility of getting there before
night. The child had cried
itself to sleep; and the Dahcotah, worn out with fatigue and grief, thought he would go to
sleep too.

After a while a woman came and touched him on the shoulder, and awaked him as of old. He started
and looked at her, and perceiving it was not his wife, felt inclined to take little notice of her.

"What," said she, "does a Dahcotah warrior still love a woman who hates him?"

"Mocassin Flower loves me well," replied the Dahcotah; "she has been a good wife."

"Yes," replied the woman, "she was for a time; but she sighs to return home--her heart yearns
towards the lover of her youth."

Chaskè was very angry. "Can this be true?" he said; and he looked towards the beaver dam where
his wife still sat. In the meantime the woman who had waked him, brought him some food in bark
dishes worked with porcupine.

"Eat," she said to the Dahcotah; "you are hungry."

But who can tell the fury that Mocassin Flower was in when she saw that strange woman bringing
her husband food. "Who are you," she cried, "that are troubling yourself about my husband?
I know you well; you are the 'Bear-Woman.'"

"And if I am," said the Bear woman, "do not the souls of the bears enjoy forever the heaven
of the Dahcotah?"

Poor Chaskè! he could not prevent their quarrelling, so, being very hungry, he soon disposed
of what the Bear woman had brought him. When he had done eating, she took the bark dishes.
"Come with me," she said; "you cannot live in the water, and I will take you to a beautiful
lodge, and we will be happy."

The Dahcotah turned to his wife, but she gave him no encouragement to remain. "Well," said
he, "I always loved adventures, and I will go and seek some more."

The new wife was not half so pretty as the old one. Then she was so wilful, and ordered him
about--as if women were anything but dogs in comparison with a Dahcotah warrior. Yes, he who
had scorned the Dahcotah girls, as they smiled upon him, was now the slave of a bear-woman;
but there was one comfort--there were no warriors to laugh at him.

For a while they got on well enough. His wife had twin children--one was a fine young Dahcotah,
and the other was a smart active little bear, and it was very amusing to see them play together.
But in all their fights the young Dahcotah had the advantage; though the little bear would
roll and tumble, and stick his claws into the Dahcotah, yet it always ended by the little bear's
capering off and roaring after his mother. Perhaps this was the reason, but for some reason
or other the mother did not seem contented and happy. One morning she woke up very early, and
while telling her husband that she had a bad dream, the dog commenced barking outside the lodge.

"What can be the matter?" said Chaskè.

"Oh!" said the woman, "I know; there is a hunter out there who wants to kill me, but I am not
afraid."

So saying, she put her head out of the door, which the hunter seeing, shot his arrow; but instead
of hurting her, the arrow fell to the ground, and the bear-woman catching up her little child,
ran away and was soon out of sight.

"Ha!" said Chaskè, "I had better have married a Dahcotah girl, for they do not run away from
their husbands except when another wife comes to take their place. But I have been twice deserted."
So saying, he took the little Dahcotah in his arms, and followed his wife. Towards evening
he came up with her, but she did not seem glad to see him. He asked her why she left him; she
replied, "I want to live with my own people." "Well," said the Dahcotah, "I will go with you."
The woman consented, though it was plain she did not want him; for she hated her Dahcotah child,
and would not look at him.

After travelling a few days, they approached a grove of trees, which grew in a large circle.
"Do you see that nest of trees?" said the woman. Houses were first built on it about 1785, and
in 1725 a turnpike existed at its junction with Grosvenor Place. Admission to the road was by
ticket, but in 1830 it was thrown open to the public under the name of the King's Road. Part
of Lower Grosvenor Place, however, was named Arabella Row in 1789,
but became known by its present name in 1789.

Here in a shabby house lived Lord Erskine after resigning the Lord
Chancellorship in 1806.

Hobart
Place was first so called in 1836, but part of it was called Grosvenor Street West until 1869.
It leads to Eaton Square, built by Cubitt in 1827-53. This is 1,637 feet long by 371 feet wide,
15 acres in extent, and contains six enclosed gardens.

The houses are of the usual type. At the west end is St. Peter's Church, built in 1826 in Ionic
style from designs by Hakewell at a cost of£ 21,515. An altar-piece by Hilton, R. A., was presented
by the British Institution in 1828, but was removed in 1877, and is now in the South Kensington
Museum. After being nearly burnt down in 1837, it was rebuilt by Gerrard, and in 1872 a chancel and
transepts in Byzantine style, by Sir A. Blomfield, were added.

The nave was remodelled in 1874, and further alterations have been made in the last ten years
at a cost of£ 5,000. Here are buried Admiral Sir E. Codrington, d. 1851, and General Lord Robert
Somerset, G. C. B. The Right Rev. G. H. Wilkinson, Bishop of St.
Andrew's, was vicar from 1870-83.

Inhabitants:
No. 8, Sir R. T. Reid, K. C., M. P.; 16, Mr. Justice Willes, 1859;
43, Lord Cottesloe; 60, Lord Sandhurst; 66a, Lord Walsingham, F. R. S.;
71, in 1809 the official residence of the Speaker; 74, Cardwell, 1859;
75, Ralph Bernal, M. P., d. 1853, Mr. George Peabody, d. 1869, Viscount
Knutsford; 76, Viscount Falkland; 83, Lord Chancellor Truro, d. 1855;
Lord Aberdare; 85, Sir Edward Malet, G. C. B., P. C.; 92, Admiral
Sir Edward Codrington, d. 1851; 110, General Sir A. Codrington, 1859;
114, Lady Baden-Powell; 115, Earl of Ellenborough, 1859, Marquis of
Hertford; Colonel Sibthorpe, d. 1855; Jacob Omnium (Mr. J. Higgins).

Clieveden Place, first built over in 1826, was so named in 1890 from the Duke of Westminster's
late estate near Cookham, instead of its original name, Westbourne
Place.

Between Clieveden Place and Pimlico Road the streets are narrow and
unimportant.

In Westbourne Street (1826), so called from the neighbouring Westbourne River, stood the York
Hospital for invalid soldiers, removed to Chatham in 1819. On the east side is a Baptist chapel,
a plain building, erected in 1825. Skinner Street (1842) and Whittaker Street (1836) lead to
Holbein Place, built over the Westbourne, and called in 1877 "the
Ditch."

Leading from Whittaker Street are Passmore Street (1837) and Union Street, containing industrial
dwellings.

Inhabitants-- Chester Place: Right Hon. Charles Buller, d. 1848.

Chester Square: No. 19, Mantell, the geologist, d. 1852; 24, the
poet Shelley's widow, d. 1851.

The
houses in Chester Square and the neighbourhood are not so pretentious as those in Belgravia,
but it is still a fashionable place of residence. In South Eaton Place, near the south end, stood
the Star and Garter Tavern, well known about 1760. The end of this street was called Burton
Street (1826) until 1877. In Elizabeth Street, first called Eliza Street in 1820, and until 1866
divided into Upper Elizabeth Street, Elizabeth Street, and Elizabeth Street South, stood the
Dwarf Tavern, noted about 1760.

At the south end, near St. Philip's Parochial Hall and Parsonage, is St. Michael's Mission
House, built in 1893. Gerald Road, 1834 until 1885 named Cottage Road, contains the station
of the R Division of Police.

Eccleston Street, with which in 1866 was incorporated Eccleston Street South, was so called from
Ecclestone in Cheshire, where the Duke of Westminster has property.

A house on the west side inhabited by Sir Frances Chantrey was pulled down during the construction
of the underground railway. On the same side is the Royal Pimlico Dispensary, established
in 1831. Part of the east side has been rebuilt. In Eccleston Place is the station of the Westminster
Electric Supply Company, which supplies this district with electric
light.

In Lower Belgrave Street (1810), the lower end of which was till 1867 named Belgrave Street South,
are St. Peter's National Schools, a large red-brick building with a playground, in connection
with St. Peter's, Eaton Square.

At the end of Grosvenor Place great improvements were made in 1868 by the building of Grosvenor
Gardens, when Grosvenor Street West, and Upper and Lower Eaton Street
were swept away.

At No. 27, Upper Eaton Street, lived George Frederick Cooke, 1870; 25, Thomas Campbell, 1803; 19,
Lower Eaton Street, Mrs. Abington, actress, 1807, Mr. Pinkerton, 1802. The present houses are
very large and handsome.

Inhabitants: No. 1, Spanish Embassy; 46, Lord Herschell.

On the west side, at the corner of Buckingham Palace Road, are Belgrave Mansions, built from designs
by Cundy in 1868, a large block in French Renaissance style, with a frontage of nearly 300
feet.

The ground-floor is occupied by shops, and above are five floors of flats. The centre of the
open space is occupied by two triangular enclosed gardens, and is crossed by Ebury Street,
once an open lane leading over the fields to Chelsea. Houses were built on it after 1750, and
in 1779 the north-eastern end was named Upper Ranelagh Street and Ranelagh Street. The south-western
end was Upper Ebury Street, but the whole was renamed Ebury Street in 1867. It is an uninteresting
street of unpretending houses and shops.

In Upper Ebury Street lived: Rodwell the composer; William Skelton, engraver, d. 1848; No. 174
is the Boys'School belonging to the parish of St. Barnabas.

At the north-east end of Ebury Street is Victoria Square, a small
square of plain houses built about 1837, out of which Albert Street
leads to Grosvenor Place.

In the square lived, at No. 8, Thomas Campbell, 1841-43; 5, Earl
of Mount Edgcumbe.

At the other end, near Ebury Bridge, is Ebury Square, built about 1820 on the site of Ebury
Farm.

This ancient property, which derives its name from the Saxon ey, water, and burgh, a fortified
place, is mentioned in 1307, when permission was granted by Edward I. to John de Benstede to
fortify it. In Queen Elizabeth's time it consisted of a farm of 430 acres, let on lease for£ 21 per
annum. In 1676 it came into the possession of the Grosvenor family, and in 1725 embraced a long
narrow area, reaching from Buckingham House to the Thames between
the Westbourne and the present Westmoreland Street.

       The square was partially destroyed in 1868, but the old houses remain
on the north-west and south sides.

In the centre is a garden, and the ground between it and Buckingham Palace Road is occupied
by St. Michael's National Schools, opened in 1870, a spacious building, accommodating about
a thousand scholars; there is a large playground. The site had been previously occupied by
the Pimlico Literary Institution, built in 1830 from designs by J.
P. Deering.

On the remaining side a handsome block of industrial dwellings (Ebury Buildings) was built
in 1872, when the old Flask Lane (1785) was swept away.

The approaches on the north-west are Semley Place (1785), late Flask Row, and Little Ebury Street
(1823). At the end of Avery Farm Row (probably a corruption of Ebury), opposite Ebury Bridge,
is a drinking-fountain, erected in memory of the second Marquis of Westminster, d. 1869, by his
widow.

Buckingham Palace, which falls partly within St. George's district and partly within St. Margaret's,
Westminster, has already been described in the volume on Westminster.

The Royal Mews, the entrance to which is in Buckingham Palace Road, contains a large riding-school,
a room for the state harness, stabling for the state and other horses,
and houses for forty carriages.

Here also are kept the old and new state coaches, the former of which was built in 1762 of English
oak, with paintings by Cipriani, and cost£ 7,660.

Buckingham Palace Road, now a broad street with large houses and shops, was in 1725 an open country
road, known as the coach-road to Chelsea. The houses in it are rated under the name of Pimlico as
late as 1786, but rows of houses under various names had been built earlier-- Stafford Row in
1752, Queen's Row in 1766. These, with Victoria Road (1838), Stockbridge Terrace (1836), King's
Road, Lower and Upper Belgrave Place and Belgrave Terrace (1826),
were united under the name of Buckingham Palace Road in 1867, and
in 1894 Union Place, Holden Terrace, and South Place were incorporated
with it.

The portion facing the Palace is named Buckingham Gate, and consists of seven large private
houses. On this site, facing the Park, stood Tart Hall, the residence of Viscount Stafford
(see "Westminster").

Facing Grosvenor Gardens is the Grosvenor Hotel, opened in 1862 in connection with Victoria Station.
The building, designed by Knowles, is 272 feet long, 75 feet deep, and 150 feet high, and cost£
100,000.

Beyond, on the north side, a row of large red-brick houses has been built since 1883, containing
Buckingham Palace Mansions (flats), the National Training School of Cookery, and the City of Westminster
Public Baths. Here also is St. Peter's Institute, in connection with St. Peter's, Eaton Square,
which cost£ 15,000.

It consists of a club for 600 men and 600 boys, with gymnasium, class-rooms, reading-room, concert-hall,
etc. Buckingham Palace Gardens, also on the north side, is a row
of large, ornamental, red-brick houses, newly erected, adjoining the
Free Library built by Bolton and opened in 1894.

On the first floor is a natural history collection presented by a parishioner.
St. Philip's Church, built 1887-90, is a plain but spacious red-brick building,
in Early English style by Brierley and Demaine, with seats (free)
for 850.

Adjoining is the Grosvenor Club and Grosvenor Hall, used for social
entertainments, etc. Nearly the whole of the south side of the road
has recently been demolished in view of the extension of Victoria
Station.

Inhabitants-- Stafford Row: W. Ryland, engineer, executed for forgery
1767; Mrs. Radcliffe, authoress of the "Mysteries of Udolpho"; Richard
Yates, d. 1796.

Lower Belgrave Place: No. 3, George Grote, historian (later 102, Buckingham
Palace Road); 29 and 30, Sir Francis Chantrey, 1814-41 (later 98, Buckingham
Palace Road); 27, Allan Cunningham, poet, 1824-42; 96, Henry Weekes,
R. A. Buckingham Palace Road: E. B. Stephen, R. A., 1882.

From the end of Buckingham Palace Road Chelsea was reached by the present Pimlico Road, so called in
1871, when the old names of Jews'Row, Grosvenor Row (1785), and Queen Street (1774) were abolished.
The origin of the name Pimlico is uncertain. There was one also
at Hoxton, where a certain Ben Pimlico kept a noted hostelry in Queen
Elizabeth's time. It is now officially used to denote the whole district
south of Knightsbridge, but is popularly confined to the part between
Chester Square and the Thames.

It began to be sparsely inhabited in 1680, after which date it is mentioned occasionally in the rate-books,
and regularly after 1739. On the north side, near the east end, are two narrow streets-- Clifford's
Row (1785), and King Street (1785). At the corner of Ebury Street stood an old inn, the Goat
and Compasses, now replaced by the Three Compasses public-house.
Further on is the Chapel of St. John the Baptist, built about 1850
as a chapel of ease to St. Barnabas.

Adjoining is the site of the Chelsea Bun House, in its best days kept by Richard Hand, "who has
the honour to serve the Royal Family." It was celebrated by Swift in 1711, and was taken down
in 1839. Opposite stood Strombelo or Stromboli House, a minor place of amusement,
at its height in 1788.

Near here Nell Gwynne is said to have lived, and her name is kept up by
the Nell Gwynne Tavern and a passage called Nell Gwynne Cottages.

Between the Pimlico and Commercial Roads are several small streets. In Bloomfield Place stood
St. John's School for girls, established in 1859 under the auspices of the Sisterhood of St. John;
adjoining, under the same management, St. Barnabas'Mission House and St. Barnabas'Orphanage,
established in 1860. In Bloomfield Terrace lived at No. 1 Captain
Warner, inventor of the "long range," d. 1853.

In Church Street (1846) stands the college of St. Barnabas, founded by Rev. W. J. Bennett. The buildings
are of Kentish ragstone, were designed by Cundy, and contain a church, clergy house, and school-house
with teacher's residence.

The church,
originally built as a chapel of ease to St. Paul's, Knightsbridge, is in Early Pointed style, and
has a tower and spire of Caen stone 170 feet high, with ten bells. The edifice cost£ 15,000, and was
at the opening signalized by ritualistic disturbances. The schools built on the site of the Orange
Tavern and tea-gardens in the Pimlico Road were designed for 200 boys, 200 girls, and 200 infants,
but a separate boys'school has been since built in Ebury Street.

Ranelagh Grove occupies the site of The Avenue, which led from Ebury Bridge to old Ranelagh House,
but now ends in the blank wall of Chelsea Barracks. In Ranelagh Terrace (now abolished), near Ebury
Bridge, d. at No. 2 the Rev. T. Pennington, son of Elizabeth Carter, in 1852. Commercial Road
(1842) is occupied by works and industrial dwellings (Gatcliff Buildings, 1867, and Wellington
Buildings). On the west side is the wall of Chelsea Barracks. It leads
by the Chelsea Bridge Road to the embankment at Victoria Bridge,
a light and graceful suspension bridge designed by Page and opened
in 1858.

The structure, which cost£ 88,000, is built of iron, and rests on piers of English elm and concrete
enclosed in iron casings. The piers are each nearly 90 feet in length
by 20 feet in width, with curved cutwaters.

The whole bridge is 915 feet long, 715 feet between abutments, the centre span 347 feet, side-spans each
185 feet, and there is a clear water-way of 21 feet above high-water
mark.

The roadway is made by two wrought-iron longitudinal girders extending the whole length of
the bridge, suspended by rods from the chains.

Toll-houses stand at each end, but it was purchased in 1879 for£ 75,000 as a free bridge. Near the end of the
bridge stood the White House, a lonely habitation much used by anglers;
opposite, on the Surrey side, was a similar building, the Red House.

A short way to the east stood the Chelsea Waterworks, incorporated as a company in 1724, though
waterworks seem to have existed here before that date. They extended, with the Grosvenor Canal and basin
(now occupied by Victoria Station), over 89 acres, and supplied water to Chelsea, Knightsbridge,
Belgravia, Pimlico, and part of Westminster.

The company has now removed to Kingston, and the site is occupied by the western pumping-station of
the main drainage system of London, built 1873-75 at a cost of£ 183,000. Graham Street (1827)
incorporated with which in 1894 were Graham Street West and Gregory
Street (1833), contains the Church of St. Mary the Virgin, a chapel
of ease to St. Paul's, Knightsbridge, a red-brick building with a
spire, built in 1872.

Caroline Street (1834) is of no interest. Eaton Terrace (1826) was
until 1884 named Coleshill Street.

At the corner of Clieveden Place is an old proprietary chapel, Eaton Chapel, in Grecian style, built
about 1800, with sittings for 1,200. A chapel existed here, however, before that date, known as the
Five Fields Chapel. Chester Terrace was in 1878 amalgamated with Minera Street (1830), and in 1887
with Newland Street (1836). Chester Square is very long and narrow; it is five acres in extent,
and was commenced about 1834. It has three enclosed gardens. At the west
end is the handsome church of St. Michael, erected 1844-46 in the
Decorated style from designs by Cundy.

The tower has a lofty spire. The chancel was extended in 1874, and the building has on several occasions
been enlarged and restored. Chester Place, at the east end of the
square, was incorporated with it in 1874.

The portion of our district lying between the Buckingham Palace Road and Grosvenor Canal and the
eastern boundary forms an acute-angled triangle with the apex at Buckingham
Palace. The streets north of Victoria Street, which lead into Buckingham
Palace Road from the east, are narrow and unimportant.

Here is Palace Street (1767), until 1881 called Charlotte Street, after Queen Charlotte, the
first royal occupant of the Palace. In it is St. Peter's Church, a plain building with seats for
200, which existed as Charlotte Chapel in 1770. Its most famous incumbent was Dr. Dodd, who was
executed for forgery in 1777.

Subsequently it was held by Dr. Dillon, who was suspended in 1840. It was then a proprietary chapel,
but is now a chapel of ease to St. Peter's, Eaton Square; also St.
Peter and St. Edward's Catholic Chapel.

In Palace Place (until 1881 Little Charlotte Street) is St. Peter's
Chapel School, established in 1830.

The St. George's Union Workhouse, a large red-brick building, built
in 1884, stands in Wallis's Yard, off Princes Row (1767).

Buckingham Palace (1840), Brewer Street (1811), and Allingham Street (1826) have no interest. The
latter leads to Victoria Street, a broad thoroughfare opened in 1851, only the western end of which
falls within the district.

On the south side is the Victoria Station of the Metropolitan District
Railway, commenced in 1863 and opened in 1868.

The line runs in a curve underground from Sloane Square, crossing Ebury Street at Eaton Terrace,
and Buckingham Palace Road at Grosvenor Gardens. From the Underground Station a subterranean
passage leads to the Victoria terminus, the starting-point of the London, Brighton, and South
Coast and London, Chatham, and Dover Railway Companies. The present station, which has no pretension
to architectural beauty, is being greatly enlarged and partly rebuilt.
It was built at a cost of£ 105,000, provided by the Victoria Station and
Pimlico Railway Company, which, having acquired 91 acres of land, had
built a temporary station and opened the line for the two companies'traffic
in 1860. The bridge over the Thames was built about the same time by Fowler,
and on it is the Grosvenor Road ticket-collecting station.

The fires in the teepees were not gone out; the smoke was ascending to the heavens; while the
voices of the murdered Dahcotahs seemed to call upon their relatives for revenge.. There lay
the warriors, who, brave as Hole-in-the-Day, had laid aside their weapons, and reposed on the
faith of their enemies, their strong limbs powerless, their faces turned towards the light,
which fell upon their glassy eyes. See the mother, as she bends over the bodies of her innocent
children!--her boy, who walked so proudly, and said he would kill deer for his mother; her
infant, whose life had been taken, as it were, from her very heart. She strains them to her
bosom, but the head leans not towards her, and the arms are stiff in death.

Red Face has asked for his young wife. She is alive, but, far worse than death, she is a prisoner
to the Chippeways. His children are dead before his eyes, and their mother, always obedient
and attentive, does not hear him when he speaks to her. The remains of the feast are scattered
on the ground; the pipe of peace lies broken among them.

In the course of the morning the Rev. Mr.----, missionary among the Dahcotahs, with the assistance
of an Indian named Round Wind, collected the bodies and buried them.

Of the fourteen persons who were in the three teepees, no more than four escaped; two young
men and two women.

The Chippeways fled as quickly as possible from the country of the Dahcotahs, with their prisoner--sad
change for her. 3. Sir Peter, M. D., a knight of Nova Scotia, Surgeon-General in the army, who
died unmarried.

Roderick Mackenzie was succeeded in Brea by his eldest son, JOHN
MACKENZIE, II. of Brea, with surviving issue, among several others
already mentioned, Alexander, who as nearest male heir collateral,
succeeded to the lands and barony of the family as XI.

ALEXANDER MACKENZIE, eleventh of Hilton and Brea, who was, as has just
been shown, the great-grandson of Colin, third son of Murdoch, V.
of Hilton, and his heir of line.

Alexander was born at Tigh-a-phris of Ferintosh, on the 3rd of July,
1756.

He was educated at the University of Aberdeen, but was afterwards bred a millwright to qualify him for
the supervision of family estates and business connections in Jamaica, where he subsequently became a
Colonel of Militia.

On the death of his maternal uncle, Alexander Mackenzie, VIII. of Davochmaluag, in 1776, and of
that gentleman's grandson, Lieutenant Kenneth Mackenzie, who was killed at Saratoga in 1777, Alexander
of Hilton succeeded also to the Davochmaluag estate.

The adjoining properties of Davochpollo and Davochcairn having been previously acquired by his
father, John Mackenzie, second of Brea, Alexander combined the three properties into one, and gave it
the name of Brea, after the former possession of the family in Ferintosh. He greatly improved
this estate and laid it out in its present beautiful form. His land improvements, however, turned
out unremunerative. His Hilton property was heavily encumbered in consequence of the part taken
by members of the family in the Risings of 1696, 1715, and 1745, and great losses having been
incurred in connection with his West Indian estates, Alexander got
into pecuniary difficulties, and all his possessions, at home and
abroad, had to be sold either by himself or by his trustees to meet
the demands of his creditors.

He was a distinguished agriculturist for his time, and was the first, along with Sir George
Mackenzie, VII. of Coul, and his own cousin, Major Forbes Mackenzie,
to introduce Cheviot sheep to the Highlands for hill grazings. He married
Mary James, in Jamaica, with issue-1. John, his heir. 2. Alexander,
who married his cousin Charlotte, daughter of the Rev. Dr Downie,
with issue-(1) Alexander, who died unmarried; (2) Downie, who died
unmarried; (3) John; (4) Kenneth, who married Flora, daughter of
the Rev. John Macdonald, a native of Inverness, who emigrated to and
was a minister in Australia, by his wife Mary (who died in 1878),
third daughter of Neil Macleod, XI. of Gesto, Isle of Skye; (5) Charles,
who died unmarried; (6) William, who died unmarried; (7) Mary James,
who married her cousin, Kenneth Mackenzie, XIV. of Hilton, in Australia;
and (8) Jessie, who died unmarried.

Alexander emigrated to Australia, where he died. 3. Kenneth, W. S., who married Anne Urquhart, Aberdeen,
with issue-an only daughter, who died unmarried. He married, secondly, Elizabeth Jones, with
issue, and died in Canada, where his widow and children continued
to reside, in the city of Toronto.

4. Mary, who died unmarried in Australia a few years ago.

Alexander died at Lasswade in 1840, and was succeeded as representative
of the family by his eldest son, XII.

JOHN MACKENZIE, Colonel of the 7th Regiment of Bengal Cavalry, and
for many years Superintendent of the Government breeding stud at Buxar,
India.

He married, in 1813, his cousin, Elizabeth, daughter of Kenneth Mackenzie of Inverinate, W. S.,
with issue-1. Alexander, who succeeded him as representative of the
family. 2. Kenneth, who succeeded his brother Alexander. 3. Mary, who married
Dr James of the 30th Regiment, without issue. 4. Let the chief tell the Eagle to take the girl home to his teepee.

The Eagle's speech created an excitement. The Indians rose one after the other, insisting upon
the death of their prisoner. One or two seconded the Eagle's motion to keep her among them,
but the voices of the others prevailed. The prisoner saw by the faces of the savages what their
words portended. When the Eagle rose to speak, she recognized the warrior whose looks had frightened
her; she knew he was pleading for her life too; but the memory of her husband took away the
fear of death. Death with a thousand terrors, rather than live a wife, a slave to the Chippeways!
The angry Chippeways are silenced, for their chief addresses them in a voice of thunder; every
voice is hushed, every countenance is respectfully turned towards the leader, whose words are
to decide the fate of the unhappy woman before them. 

There was no response.

At last, at three o'clock, as they were still in the middle of an interminable plain, without any
village in sight, Boule de Suif bent down quickly and from under her seat pulled out a large
basket covered with a white napkin.

She drew out first a small earthen plate, a fine silver drinking cup, then a large pot in which
two whole chickens, carved in pieces, had stewed in their own gravy;
and one could further see in the basket other good things wrapped
up, pastry, fruit, delicacies, provisions prepared for a three days'trip,
so that the traveler would not have to touch the food in the inns.
The neck of four bottles emerged from among the food packages.

She took the wing of a chicken and, began to eat it delicately with one of those small rolls which
in Normandy are called "Regence." All the eyes were attracted in
her direction.

Then the appetizing smell filled the coach, making the nostrils dilate
and mouths water, while the jaws under the ears contracted painfully.

All the while, Loiseau had been devouring with his eyes the pot of chicken.
He said:-- "Well, well, the lady has been more provident than all
of us!

There are persons who always manage to think of everything."-- She raised her head towards him:--
"Would you like some, Sir?" "It is hard to fast since morning--" And looking around him he added:--
"In moments like this, one is glad to find obliging people." He had
a newspaper which he unfolded on his knees in order not to soil his
trousers, and with the point of a knife, which he always carried in
his pocket, he picked a leg thoroughly varnished with jelly, bit it
off and chewed it with such evident relish, that there arose in the
coach a heavy sigh of distress.

Boule de Suif, with a humble and gentle voice, proposed to the good Sisters to share her luncheon.
They both accepted instantly and, without raising their eyes, began
to eat very fast, after having muttered a few words of thanks.

Neither did Cornudet decline the offer of his neighbor, and with
the nuns, they improvised a sort of table by unfolding newspapers
on their knees. Mouths were opening and closing constantly, swallowing,
chewing, gulping ferociously. Loiseau in his corner was very busy eating,
and in a low voice was urging his wife to imitate him.

She resisted for a long time, but, after a cramp, which ran through her stomach, she yielded. Then
her husband, rounding his sentences, asked their "charming companion" whether she would allow him
to offer a small piece to Madame Loiseau. She replied:-- "Why, certainly, Sir!"-- with an amiable
smile, and held out the terrine. An embarrassment occurred when the first
bottle of claret was opened: there was only one drinking cup.

They passed it around after wiping it each time. Cornudet alone, no doubt in a spirit of gallantry,
put his lips on the spot which was still moist from the lips of his
neighbor.

All lost their heads, but the oldest of the two Nuns holding in her arm the head of the unconscious
lady, slipped between her lips the drinking cup of Boule de Suif and made her swallow a few drops
of wine.

The pretty lady moved, opened her eyes, smiled and declared in a dying voice that she felt better. However,
to prevent a recurrence of the fainting, the Nun obliged her to drink a full cup of claret, and she
added:-- "It is just hunger, and nothing else." Then Boule de Suif, blushing and embarrassed, stammered,
looking at the four passengers who had not yet broken their fast:--
"Mon Dieu!, if I ventured to offer these ladies and gentlemen?"
 6. An ornament over a door.
 7. Part of court ornamented with down.
 8. Part of do. do. with red down.
 9. A bear; 10. a deer; 11. an elk; 12. a buffalo.
13, 14. Incense-offering.
15. A rattle of deer's claws, used when singing.
16. A long flute or whistle.
17, 18, 19, 20. Are meteors that the giant sends out for his defence,
    or to protect him from invasion.
21, 22, 23, 24. The giant surrounded with lightnings, with which he
    kills all kinds of animals that molest him.
25. Red down in small bunches fastened to the railing of the court.
26. The same. One of these bunches of red down disappears every time
    an animal is found dead inside the court.
27, 28. Touchwood, and a large fungus that grows on trees.--These are
    eaten by any animal that enters the court, and this food causes
    their death.
29. A streak of lightning going from the giant's hat. In
1795 Sir Roderick built, on his estate of Pittonachty, the present
mansion, to which, with the property, he gave the name of the adjoining
estate of Rosehaugh, and removed his family to it from the old house
at Findon.

He also built the present Church of Urquhart, or Ferrintosh, the
old one having become uninhabitable from the accumulation of interments
within it.

He died on the 11th of June, 1811, and was succeeded by his eldest
surviving son, VIII.

SIR JAMES WEMYSS MACKENZIE, fifth Baronet and eighth of Scatwell,
M. P., and Lord-Lieutenant for the County of Ross.

He resided for a time in Jamaica, and was Paymaster in the army. He was born on the 10th of
August, 1770, and married on the 26th of March, 1810, Henrietta Wharton, only surviving daughter
and heiress of William Mackenzie, IV. of Suddie, by Margaret, daughter of Sir Alexander Mackenzie,
V. of Coul, widow of Captain Robert Pott of Galallan, without issue; and on the death of her brother,
Major-General John Randoll Mackenzie, of the 78th Highlanders, at Talavera, in 1809, she brought
to Sir James the estate of Suddie. By her (who died on the 14th of November,
1840) he had an only child, who on his death in 1843, succeeded his
father as IX.

SIR JAMES JOHN RANDOLL MACKENZIE, sixth Baronet and ninth of Scatwell, who was born on the 20th
of June, 1814, and married on the 10th of October, 1838, Lady Anne
Wentworth Fitzwilliam, daughter of Charles William Wentworth, fifth
Earl Fitzwilliam, K. G. She died in 1879, without issue.

Sir James in 1849 obtained a disentail of the Scatwell estates, and soon after alienated or sold
them. Findon went, under a deed of arrangement, to his cousin, the late Lewis Mark Mackenzie,
grandson of Colin, second son of Sir Lewis Mackenzie, VI. and third Baronet of Scatwell, and
was until recently possessed by his brother, Sir James Dixon Mackenzie
of Findon and Mountgerald, who on the death of Sir James John Randoll
Mackenzie, on the 22nd of February, 1884, without issue, assumed the
Baronetcy of Scatwell, and who, failing the male representation of
the Mackenzies of Ardloch, is heir male also to the Tarbat and Royston
Baronetcies, and to the original Earldom of Cromarty.

The estate of Scatwell was sold to Mr Murray of Polmaise; Lochluichart to Lord Ashburton; Rosehaugh
in 1864, to the late James Fletcher, while that of Suddie was retained
in the hands of the trustees under Sir James John Randoll Mackenzie's
marriage settlement.

THE MACKENZIES OF BALLONE. I. ALEXANDER MACKENZIE, the first of this family, was fourth son of Sir
Roderick Mackenzie, Tutor of Kintail, by his wife Margaret, daughter
and heiress of Torquil "Conanach" Macleod of the Lewis, Coigeach,
and Assynt, by his wife Margaret, daughter of Angus Macdonald, VI.
of Glengarry. Alexander has a sasine as fourth son of the lands of
Acha-ghluineachan, Lochbroom, in 1635, where Ballone, now called Inverbroom,
is situated, and comprising Acha-ghluineachan, Achataskaill, Craigour,
Strathnasealg, Arigholach, and other lands. On the 24th of June, 1637,
he grants a disposition of the lands of Achataskaill to Sir John
Mackenzie of Tarbat.

He married Agnes, widow of Kenneth Mackenzie, II. of Inverlael (sasine on marriage contract in 1629),
and daughter of William Fraser, V. of Culbokie, by his wife Christian, daughter of Alexander Chisholm,
XVIII. of Chisholm, with issue-1. Alexander, his heir and successor.

2.

Jean, who married first, in 1663, Simon, second son of the Hon. Simon Mackenzie of Lochslinn,
and brother of Sir George Mackenzie of Rosehaugh, with issue-Simon, I.
of Allangrange.

She married secondly, in 1667, Alexander Mackenzie, IV. of Loggie, without issue. 3. She was served
heir of entail to her brother on the 12th of October, 1693; (3) Isobel, who married her cousin, Simon
Mackenzie, I. of Allangrange (marriage contract 22nd of August 1693), with issue; (4) Jean, who
married John Chisholm, XX. of Chisholm, with issue; and (5) Margaret, who married Sir Kenneth
Mackenzie, first Baronet and VIII. of Gairloch (marriage contract dated 21st of April, 1696), with
issue. Margaret of Ballone married, secondly, Colin Mackenzie, I. of Mountgerald, without
issue.

Near Lac qui parle, is living an old Dahcotah woman of a singular appearance. Her face is very
black, and her hair singed and faded-looking. She was asked by a stranger to account for her
singular appearance. "I dreamed of the Giant," she said; "and I was frightened when I woke;
and I told my husband that I would give a dance to the Giant to propitiate him; but my husband
said that I was not able to go through the Giant's dance; that I would only fail, and bring
disgrace upon him and all my family. The Giant was very angry with me, and punished me by burning
my face black, and my hair as you see it." Her husband might well fear that she would not be
able to perform this dance.

It would be impossible to give any idea of the number of the gods of the Dahcotahs. Macdonald, not
having perceived that the arrow was a barbed one, wrenched it out, and in so doing separated
the main artery.

Notwithstanding that all available means were used, it was found impossible to stop the bleeding,
and his men conveyed him out of the range of the fort to a spot-a
sand bank-on which he died, called to this day, "Larach Tigh Mhic Dhomhnuill,"
or the site of Macdonald's house, where the haughty Lord of Sleat ended
his career.

["Genealogy of the Macras" and the Ardintoul MS. "This Donald Gorme
was son to Donald Gruamach, son to Donald Gallach, son to Hugh, natural
son to Alexander, Earl of Ross, for which the elegy made on his death
calls him grandchild and great grandchild to Rhi-Fingal (King Fingal)-"
A Dhonnchaldh Mhic Gillechriost Mhic Fhionnla,'S mor um beud a thuit
le d'aon laimh, Ogha's iar-ogha Mhic Righ Fhinghaill,` Thuiteam le
bramag an aon mhic.

"-Letterform MS.] The Islesmen burnt all they could find ashore
in Kintail." In 1539 Donald Gorm of Sleat and his allies, after laying waste
Trouterness in Sky and Kenlochew in Ross, attempted to take the Castle
of Eileandonan, but Donald being killed by an arrow shot from the
wall, the attempt failed.

"[Gregory, pp. 145.146. Border Minstrelsy.
Anderson, p. 283. Reg. Sec.

Sig., vol. xv., fol. 46.] In 1541 King James V. granted a remission
to Donald's accomplices-namely, Archibald Ilis, alias Archibald the Clerk,
Alexander McConnell Gallich, John Dow Donaldsoun, and twenty-six
others whose names are recorded in Origines Parchiales, p. 394, vol.
ii., for their treasonable fire-raising and burning of the"

Castle of Allanedonnand "and of the boats there, for the"

Herschip "of Kenlochew and Trouterness, etc. Duncan MacGillechriost now naturally felt that
he had some claim to the governorship of the castle, but being considered" a man more bold and
rash than prudent and politick, "Mackenzie decided to pass him over. Duncan
then put in a claim for his brother Farquhar, but it was thought best,
to avoid local quarrels and bitterness between the respective claimants,
to supersede them both and appoint another, John MacMhurchaidh Dhuibh, priest
of Kintail, to the Constableship.

Duncan was so much offended at such treatment
in return for his valiant services that he left Kintail in disgust, and went
to the country of Lord Lovat, who received him kindly, and gave him the
lands of Crochel and others in Strathglass, where he lived for several
years, until Lovat's death.

Mackenzie, however, often visited him and finally prevailed upon him to return to Kintail, and
Duncan, who always retained a lingering affection for his native country, ultimately became
reconciled to the chief, who gave him the quarterland of Little Inverinate and Dorisduan, where
he lived the remainder of his days, and which his descendants continued to possess for generations
after his death. For this service against the Macdonalds, James V.
gave Mackenzie Kinchullidrum, Achilty, and Comery in feu, with Meikle
Scatwell, under the Great Seal, in 1528.

The lands of Laggan Achidrom, being four merks, the three merks of Killianan, and the four
merk lands of Invergarry, being in the King's hands, were disposed by him to John Mackenzie, after
the King's minority and revocation, in 1540, with a precept, under the Great
Seal, and sasine thereupon by Sir John Robertson in January 1541.
But before this, in 1521, he acquired the lands of Fodderty and mill
thereof from Mr John Cadell, which James V. confirmed to him at Linlithgow
in September, 1522.

In 1541 he feued Brahan from the King to himself and his heirs male, which failing, to his eldest daughter.
In 1542 he obtained the waste lands and forest of Neid and Monar
from James V. for which sasine is granted in the same year by Sir
John Robertson.

In January 1547 he acquired a wadset of the half of Culteleod (Castle
Leod) and Drynie from Denoon of Davidston. In September of the same year,
old as he was, he went in defence of his Sovereign, young Mary of Scots,
to the Battle of Pinkie, where he was taken prisoner; and the Laird
of Kilravock meeting him advised him that they should own themselves
among the commons, Mackenzie passing off as a bowman.

While Kilravock would pass himself off as a miller, which plan succeeded so well as to secure Kilravock
his release; but the Earl of Huntly, who was also a prisoner, having been conveyed by the Duke
of Somerset to view the prisoners, espying his old friend Mackenzie among the common prisoners, and
ignorant of the plot, called him by his name, desiring that he might shake hands with him, which
civility two English officers noticed to Mackenzie's disadvantage; for thenceforward he was placed
and guarded along with the other prisoners of quality, but afterwards released for a considerable
sum, to which all his people contributed without burdening his own
estate with it, [" He was ransomed by cows that was raised through all his
lands. "-Letterform MS.] so returning home to set himself to arrange
his private affairs, and in the year 1556 he acquired the heritage
of Culteleod and Drynie from Denoon, which was confirmed to him by
Queen Mary under the Great Seal, at Inverness 13th July the same
year.

He had previously, in 1544, acquired the other half of Culteleod and Drynie from Magnus Mowat, and Patrick
Mowat of Bugholly. In 1543 John Mackenzie acquired Kildins, part of Lochbroom, to himself and
Elizabeth Grant, his wife, holding blench for a penny, and confirmed in the same year by Queen
Mary. [MS. History by the Earl of Cromartie.] In 1540 Mackenzie with his followers joined King
James at Loch Duich, while on his way with a large fleet to secure the good government of the West
Highlands and Isles, upon which occasion many of the suspected and refractory leaders were carried south
and placed in confinement. His Majesty died soon after, in 1542. Queen
Mary succeeded, and, being a minor, the country generally, but particularly
the northern parts, was thrown into a state of anarchy and confusion.
In 1544 the Earl of Huntly, holding a commission as Lieutenant of the
North from the Queen Regent, Mary of Guise, commanded Kenneth Mackenzie,
younger of Kintail (his father, from his advanced age, being unable
to take the field), to raise his vassals and lead an expedition against
the Clan Ranald of Moidart, who, at that time, held lands from Mackenzie
on the West Coast; but Kenneth, in these circumstances, thought it
would be much against his personal interest to attack Donald Glas
of Moidart, and refused to comply with Huntly's orders.

To punish him, the Earl ordered his whole army, consisting of three thousand men, to proceed against
both Moidart and Mackenzie with fire and sword, but he had not sufficiently calculated on the constitution
of his force, which was chiefly composed of Grants, Rosses, Mackintoshes, and Chisholms; and
Kenneth's mother being a daughter of John, then laird of Grant, and
three of his daughters having married, respectively, Ross of Balnagown,
Lachlan Mackintosh of Mackintosh, and Alexander Chisholm of Comar,
Huntly found his followers as little disposed to molest Mackenzie
as he had been to attack Donald Glas of Moidart.

In addition to the friendly feelings of the other chiefs towards young
Kintail, fostered by these family alliances, Huntly was not at all
popular with his own followers, or with the Highlanders generally. He had
incurred such odium for having some time before executed the Laird
of Mackintosh, contrary to his solemn pledge, that it required little
excuse on the part of the exasperated kindred tribes to counteract
his plans, and on the slightest pretext to refuse to follow him.

He was therefore obliged to retire from the West without effecting any substantial service; was ultimately
disgraced; committed to Edinburgh Castle; compelled to renounce the
Earldom of Moray and all his other possessions in the north; and sentenced
to banishment in France for five years.

On the 13th of December 1545, at Dingwall, the Earl of Sutherland
entered into a bond of manrent with John Mackenzie of Kintail for
mutual defence against all enemies, reserving only their allegiance
to their youthful Queen, Mary Stuart. [Sir Robert Gordon, p. 112.]
Two years later the Earl of Arran sent the fiery cross over the nation
calling upon all between the ages of sixteen and sixty to meet him
at Musselburgh for the protection of the infant Queen. Mackenzie of Kintail,
then between sixty and seventy years of age, when he might fairly consider
himself exempt from further military service, duly appeared with
all the followers he could muster, prudently leaving Kenneth, his
only son, at home and when remonstrated with for taking part in such
a perilous journey at his time of life, especially as he was far past
the stipulated age for active service, the old chief patriotically
remarked that one of his age could not possibly die more decorously
than in the defence of his country.

In the same year (1547) he fought bravely, at the head of his clan, with all the enthusiasm
and gallantry of his younger days, at the battle of Pinkie, where he was wounded in the head and
taken prisoner, but was soon afterwards released, through the influence
of the Earl of Huntly, who had meanwhile again got into favour received
a full pardon, and was appointed Chancellor for Scotland. The Earl
of Huntly some time after this paid a visit to Ross, intending, if
he were kindly received by the great chiefs, to feu a part of the earldom
of Ross, still in the King's hands, and to live in the district for some
period of the year.

Mackenzie, although friendly disposed towards the Earl, had no desire to have him residing in his
immediate neighbourhood, and he arranged a plan which had the effect of deciding Huntly to give
up any idea of remaining or feuing any lands in Ross. The Earl, having obtained a commission from the
Regent to hold courts in the county, came to the castle of Dingwall,
where he invited the principal chiefs to meet him. John of Killin,
though very advanced in years, was the first to arrive, and he was
very kindly received by Huntly.

Mackenzie in return made a pretence of heartily welcoming and congratulating his lordship on
his coming to Ross, and trusted that he would be the means of protecting
him and his friends from the violence of his son, Kenneth, who, taking
advantage of his frailty and advanced years, was behaving most unjustly
towards him.

John, indeed, expressed the hope that the Earl would punish Kenneth
for his illegal and unnatural rebellion against him, his aged father.
While they were thus speaking, a message came in that a large number
of armed men, three or four hundred strong, with banners flying and
pipes playing, were just in sight on the hill above Dingwall.

The Earl became alarmed, not knowing whom they might be or what their object was, whereupon
Mackenzie said that it could be no other than Kenneth and his rebellious
followers coming to punish him for paying his lordship this visit
without his consent and he advised the Earl to leave at once, as he
was not strong enough to resist the enemy, and to take him (the old
chief) along with him in order to protect him from his son's violence,
which would now, in consequence of this visit he directed against
him more than ever.

The Earl and his retinue at once withdrew to Easter Ross. Kenneth ordered his men to pursue them.
He overtook them as they were crossing the bridge of Dingwall and killed several of them; but
having attained his object of frightening Huntly out of Ross, he ordered his men to desist. This
skirmish is known as the" affair of Dingwall Bridge. "[Ardintoul MS.] In 1556 Y Mackay of Farr, progenitor
of the Lords of Reay, refused to appear before the Queen Regent at Inverness, to answer charges
made against him for depredations committed in Sutherlandshire; and she issued a commission to John,
fifth Earl of Sutherland, to lay Mackay's country waste. Mackay, satisfied
that he could not successfully oppose the Earl's forces in the field,
pillaged and plundered another district of Sutherland. The Earl conveyed
intelligence of how matters stood to John of Kintail, who, in terms
of the bond of manrent entered into between them in 1545, despatched
his son Kenneth with an able body of the clan to arrest Mackay's
progress, which duty he performed most effectually.

Meeting at Brora, a severe contest ensued, which terminated in the defeat of Mackay, with the loss
of Angus MacIain Mhoir, one of his chief commanders, and many of his clan. Kenneth was thereupon,
conjointly with his father, appointed by the Earl of Sutherland-then the Queen's Lieutenant north
of the Spey, and Chamberlain of the Earldom of Ross [Sir Robert Gordon, p. 134.]-his deputies
in the management of this vast property, at the same time placing them in possession of Ardmeanoch,
or Redcastle, which remained ever since, until within a recent period, in the possession of the family,
becoming the property of Kenneth's third son, Ruairidh Mor, first of
the house of Redcastle, and progenitor of the family of Kincraig
and other well-known branches.

After this, Kintail seems to have lived in peace during the remainder of his long life. He died
at his home at Inverchonan, in 1561, about eighty years of age.

He was buried in the family aisle at Beauly. That he was a man of proved valour is fully established
by the distinguished part he took in the battles of Flodden and Pinkie. The Earl of Cromarty
informs us that," in his time he purchased much of the Brae-lands of Ross, and secured both what
he acquired and what his predecessors had, by well ordered and legal security, so that it is
doubtful whether his predecessors'courage or his prudence contributed most to the rising of the
family. "In illustration of the latter quality, we quote the following
story: John Mackenzie of Kintail" was a very great courtier and counsellor
of Queen Maries.

Much of the lands of Brae Ross were acquired by him, which minds me how he entertained the
Queen's Chamberlain who she sent north to learn the state and condition of the gentry of Ross,
minding to feu her interest of that Earldome. Sir John, hearing of their coming to his house of Killin,
he caused his servants put on a great fyre of ffresh arn wood newly cutt, which when they came
in (sitting on great jests of wood which he caused sett there a purpose) made such a reek that
they were almost blinded, and were it not the night was so ill they
would rather goe than byde it.

They had not long sitten when his servants came in with a great bull, which presently they brained
on the floor, and or they well could look about, this fellow with his dirk, and that fellow with
his, were cutting collops of him. Then comes in another sturdie lusty fellow with a great calderon
in his hand, and ane axe in the other, and with its shaft stroak
each of these that were cutting the collops, and then made Taylzies
of it and put all in the kettle, sett it on the same tire before them
all and helped the tire with more green wood.
Cloudy Sky was willing to pay them well for their child. So she was told that her fate for
life was determined upon. Her promised bridegroom had seen the snows of eighty winters.

It was a bright night in the "moon for strawberries." [Footnote: The month of June.] Harpstenah
had wept herself to sleep, and she had reason too, for her young companions had laughed at
her, and told her that she was to have for a husband an old man without a nose. And it was
true, though Cloudy Sky could once have boasted of a fine aquiline. He had been drinking freely,
and picked a quarrel with one of his sworn friends. After some preliminary blows, Cloudy Sky
seized his antagonist and cut his ear sadly, but in return he had his nose bitten off.

She had wept the more when her mother told her that in four days she was to go to the teepee
of her husband. It was in vain to contend. She lay down beside the fire; deep sleep came upon
her; she forgot the events of the past day; for a time she ceased to think of the young man
she loved, and the old one she hated. In her dreams she had travelled a long journey, and was
seated on the river shore, to rest her tired limbs. The red light of the dying sun illumined
the prairies, she could not have endured its scorching rays, were it not for the sheltering
branches of the tree under which she had found a resting-place.

The waters of the river beat against her feet. She would fain move, but something chained her
to the spot. She tried to call her mother, but her lips were sealed, and her voice powerless.
She would have turned her face from the waters, but even this was impossible. Stronger and
stronger beat the waves, and then parted, revealing the dreaded form of the fairy of the waters.

Harpstenah looked upon death as inevitable; she had ever feared that terrible race of beings
whose home was in the waters. And now the fairy stood before her!

"Why do you tremble maiden? Only the wicked need fear the anger of the gods You have never
offended us, nor the spirits of the dead. You have danced in the scalp-dance, and have reverenced
the customs of the Sioux. You have shed many tears. You love Red Deer, and your father has
sold you to Cloudy Sky, the medicine man. It is with you to marry the man you love, or the
one you hate."

"If you know everything," sighed the girl, "then you must know that in four days I am to take
my seat beside Cloudy Sky in his wigwam. He has twice brought calico and cloth, and laid them
at the door of my father's teepee."

"You shall not marry Cloudy Sky, if you have a strong heart, and fear nothing," replied the
fairy. The spirits of the water have determined on the death of Cloudy Sky. He has already
lived three times on earth. For many years he wandered through the air with the sons of the
thunder bird; like them he was ever fighting against the friends of Unktahe.

"With his own hand he killed the son of that god, and for that was he sent to earth to be a
medicine man. But long ago we have said that the time should come, when we would destroy him
from the earth. It is for you to take his life when he sleeps. Can a Dahcotah woman want courage
when she is to be forced to marry a man she hates?"

The waters closed over the fairy as he disappeared, and the waves beat harder against Harpstenah's
feet. She awoke with the words echoing in her heart, "Can a Sioux woman want courage when she
is to be forced to marry a man she hates?" "The words of the fairy were wise and true," thought
the maiden. "Our medicine-men say that the fairies of the water are all wicked; that they are
ever seeking to do harm to the Dahcotahs. My dream has made my heart light. I will take the
life of the war chief. At the worst they can but take mine."

As she looked round the teepee, her eye rested upon the faces of her parents. The bright moonlight
had found its way into the teepee. There lay her father, his haughty countenance calm and subdued,
for the "image of death" had chased away the impression left on his features of a fierce struggle
with a hard life. How often had he warned her of the danger of offending Cloudy Sky, that sickness,
famine, death itself, might be the result. Her mother too, had wearied her with warnings. But
she remembered her dream, and with all a Sioux woman's faith in revelations, she determined
to let it influence her course.

Red Deer had often vowed to take the life of his rival, though he knew it would have assuredly
cost him his own. The family of Cloudy Sky was a large one; there were many who would esteem
it a sacred duty to avenge his death. MAYFAIR, BELGRAVIA, AND BAYSWATER Mayfair is at the present time the
most fashionable part of London, so much so that the name has come
to be a synonym for wealth or pride of birth.

Yet it was not always so, as he who runs may read, for the derivation is simple enough, and
differs from most cases in that the obvious meaning is the right one. In James II.'s reign a permission
was given for a fair to be held on the north side of Piccadilly, to begin on the first day of
May, and to last for fifteen days. This fair, we are told, was "not for trade and merchandise,
but for musick, showes, drinking, gaming, raffling, lotteries, stageplays
and drolls."

It was immensely popular, and was frequented by "all the nobility of the town," wherein, perhaps,
we see the germs of the Mayfair we know. It must be remembered that Grosvenor and Berkeley Squares,
with their diverging streets, were not then begun, and that all this land now covered by a network
of houses lay in fields on the outskirts of London, while Hyde Park Corner was still the end
of the world so far as Londoners were concerned. It was about the end of the seventeenth century
that the above-mentioned squares were built, and at once became fashionable, and as the May fair continued
to flourish until 1708, it must have seen the growth of the district to which it was to give its
name. Though suppressed, doubtless on account of disorders, it revived again, with booths for
jugglers, prize-fighting contests, boxing matches, and the baiting
of bears and bulls, and was not finally abolished until the end of
the eighteenth century.

But Mayfair is not the only district to be noticed; we have also its rival-- Belgravia-- lying south
of Hyde Park Corner, which is equally included in the electoral district of St. George's, Hanover
Square.

This electoral district takes in the three most fashionable churches
in the Metropolis, including the mother church, St. Paul's, Wilton
Place, and St. Peter's, Eaton Square, besides many others, whose
marriage registers cannot compete either in quantity or quality of
names with these three.

The district can also show streets as poor as some are rich; it includes not only Park Lane and Piccadilly,
but also Pimlico and the dreary part to the south of Buckingham Palace Road. It is a long, narrow
district, stretching from the river to Oxford Street. As a parish, St. George's was separated from
St. Martin's in 1724, and it is now included in the city of Westminster,
with which it has been associated from its earliest history. In the
charter given by King Edgar to the monks at Westminster, their possessions
were defined as reaching to the highroad we now call Oxford Street
on the north, and to Tyburn Lane, or Park Lane, on the west.

But of this the parishes of St. Margaret and St. John at Westminster were the City, and the rest lay
in the "Liberties." The larger portion of the district is included
in the ancient estate of Eia, 890 acres in extent, reaching from the
Bayswater Road to the Thames, which was given by William the Conqueror
to Geoffrey de Mandeville, who at his death bequeathed it to the Abbey
of Westminster.

In Domesday Book it is divided into three manors of Hyde, Ebury, and Neyte. Of these the first
occupies the site of Hyde Park; Ebury, from Knightsbridge to Buckingham Palace Road; Neyte, nearer
the river, was the favourite residence of the Abbots. Here John of Gaunt lived, and here, in 1448,
John, son of Richard, Duke of York, was born.

The monks remained in possession until dispossessed by Henry VIII. in 1536. Hyde then became a royal
hunting-ground. Neyte, or Neat, and Ebury remained as farms, which
in 1676 came into the possession of the Grosvenor family by the marriage
of Mary, daughter and heiress of Alexander Davies of Ebury, with
Sir Thomas Grosvenor, Bart.

With her came also the Grosvenor Square property, extending from Oxford Street to Berkeley Square
and Dorchester House, and from Park Lane to South Molton Lane and Avery
Row. Other large landholders in the district are the Crown-- Hyde
Park, and Buckingham Palace; Lord Fitzhardinge, the Berkeley estate;
the City of London, New Bond Street and parts of Conduit Street and
Brook Street; Earl Howe, Curzon Street; Sir Richard Sutton, Piccadilly;
the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, Knightsbridge; and the Lowndes
family, Lowndes Street and Chesham Place.

More than a quarter of the district is covered by Hyde Park, 394 acres in extent. Long before
its acquisition by the Crown in 1536 it had been a favourite royal hunting-ground, and it so
continued until Charles I.'s accession, when it was opened to the public. During this reign,
and until 1736, the world of fashion centred round the Ring, a circular
drive planted with trees, some of which are still carefully preserved
on the high ground near the Ranger's house, though all trace of the
roadway has long been obliterated.

The Park was sold by auction during the Commonwealth, but resumed by the Crown at the Restoration,
and in 1670 was enclosed with a brick wall and restocked with deer, who have left their traces in the
name of Buck Hill Walk and Gate, close to the east bank of the Serpentine.
This prettily-laid-out area, formerly known as Buckden Hill or the Deer
Paddock, is now tenanted only by peacocks, ducks and rabbits. The Serpentine,
a noble stretch of water of 50 acres, has already been described in "Kensington."
Hyde Park has always been noted for its springs. In 1725 the Chelsea
Waterworks Company obtained a license to supply the surrounding districts,
and built a reservoir and engine-house near Grosvenor Gate, which
existed until 1835, when, on the recall of the license, the engine-house
was demolished and the basin laid out with flower-beds and a fountain.

The present reservoir stands in the centre of the Park, while opposite
Stanhope Place on the north side is a Gothic drinking fountain, the
gift of the Maharajah of Vizianagram.

The oldest of the present roads in Hyde Park is Rotten Row, made by William III.; it is now reserved
for riding only, while under the trees on either side rank and fashion
have lounged and gossiped since the days of the Ring.

The popular derivation of the name is from Route du Roi, since it was known first as the King's
or Lamp Road; but possibly it has its origin in the soft soil of which the ride since 1734 has been
composed.

The south road, now the fashionable drive, was made by George II.
about 1732, as a short way to Kensington Park. The road from Alexandra
Gate to Victoria Gate crosses the Serpentine by a stone bridge built
by Rennie in 1826, and is the only one open to hired vehicles, which
were first forbidden the use of the Park in 1695.

From the Serpentine a soft ride runs parallel to the roadway as far as the Marble Arch; from this
point Hyde Park Corner is reached by a broad drive bordered with
flower-beds and trees, which replace the famous double avenue of walnuts
cut down in 1811.

It is much patronized by society, who congregate opposite Hyde Park
Corner, near the Achilles statue, by Sir R. Westmacott, R. A., cast
from captured French cannon, and erected at a cost of£ 10,000 by the
women of England in 1820, "in honour of the Duke of Wellington and
his brave companions in arms."

It is
copied from a Roman antique, but the name is a misnomer. The road along the north side of the Serpentine
is now thronged every day with bicyclists, to whom the Park has been lately thrown open. Here also
are held the annual meets of the Four-in-Hand and Coaching Club during the season. This road
was widened in 1852. Of past and present buildings in Hyde Park the following may be noted: When the
Serpentine was made, an old lodge was demolished which may have been the tavern known in the
reign of James I. as the "Grave Maurice's Head," and which later became Price's Lodge. Up
to 1836, on the bank of the Serpentine stood an old house called the
Cake House, and close to it was the old receiving house of the Royal
Humane Society, which was replaced in 1834 by the present building,
designed by Decimus Burton.

Among the trees behind it is an old farmhouse (Hyde Park Lodge), the residence of Major-General
Bateson, Deputy Ranger, adjoining which are the old barracks, now a police-station and guard-room,
the head-gardener's house, built in 1877, and the old magazine. The new magazine stands close to
the Serpentine Bridge, and contains over 1,000,000 rounds of ammunition. Near Grosvenor Gate
stood the Duke of Gloucester's riding-house, built in 1724, which, after serving as the headquarters
of the Westminster Volunteer Cavalry, was demolished in 1824. The old Ranger's Lodge at Hyde Park Corner
was pulled down when Apsley House was built. The principal entrance to Hyde Park is at Hyde Park
Corner, and consists of a triple archway combined with a fluted Ionic screen, by Decimus Burton,
completed in 1828.

The iron gates are by Bramah. Cumberland Gate, the next in importance, was opened in 1744, with
wooden gates. Here in 1643 was posted a court of guard to watch the Oxford Road, where the
Court was residing, and here also military executions took place. The Marble Arch, an imitation
by Nash of the Arch of Constantine at Rome, erected originally as
an entrance to Buckingham Palace, was moved to this site in 1851.

Albert Gate was made in 1841, on the site of the Cannon Brewery. The iron gates were set up
in 1845, and the stone stags on either side were brought from the old Lodge in the Green Park.
The remaining gates are Alexandra Gate and Prince of Wales's Gate, erected since 1851; Victoria
Gate, Grosvenor Gate, made in 1724 by subscription of the neighbouring
inhabitants; and Stanhope Gate, opened about 1760.

There are also numerous entrances for foot passengers. The present Park railing was put up after
the Reform Riots in 1866 to replace the one demolished by the mob, which had stood since 1825.
In duelling days Hyde Park was a favourite battle-ground. Of many encounters the following may
be recorded: 1685. The Duke of Grafton and the Hon. John Talbot, the latter being killed. 1712. The
Duke of Hamilton and Lord Mohun, which took place near Price's Lodge.
Both died on the ground, and Lord Mohun's second, General Macartney,
was afterwards tried, on the accusation of Colonel Hamilton, for stabbing
the Duke when on the ground; he was, however, acquitted.

1763. John Wilkes was wounded by Mr. Samuel Martin, M. P. 1770. Lord Thurlow and Mr. Andrew Stewart.
1777. Charles James Fox and Mr. William Adam, M. P. 1780. Colonel Fullarton, M. P., wounded the Earl
of Shelburne. After 1803 the practice of duelling fell gradually into disuse. In troublous times
military camps occupied the open ground, notably in 1649 under Lord
Essex, in 1665 during the Plague, and in 1715 and 1722 to guard against
Jacobite rebellion.

Reviews have been held at intervals from 1569 until 1876, but are now of very rare occurrence. Hyde
Park has also been the scene of some serious riots, notably those in 1821 on the occasion of the removal
of Queen Caroline's body; in 1885 against the Sunday Trading Bill;
and in 1862 the Garibaldi disturbances.

The most important riot, however, broke out in 1866, when the Reform
Leaguers forcibly entered the Park by pulling down the railing.

From the Reform League the Reformer's tree near the reservoir took its name; though the original
one has been felled, the name is still applied to a neighbouring
tree, and political demonstrations, which have been declared legal
since 1866, are still held on the open space in the vicinity.

Oxford Street, which forms the northern boundary of the district, has already been described in
the book on "Marylebone," with which district it is closely identified. It is only necessary here
to mention some of the notable houses on the south side which fall within our compass. The first
is Camelford House (Lord Hillingdon), an unpretentious building in a courtyard, once the property
of the Pitts, Earls of Camelford. George Grenville occupied it in
1805, and subsequently H. R. H. Princess Charlotte and her husband,
afterwards Leopold I. of Belgium.

Adjoining it is Hereford Gardens, a row of handsome private houses built in 1870 on the site
of Hereford Street (1780).

At the corner of Lumley Street (south side) is the Royal Association
in Aid of the Deaf and Dumb. The building, erected in 1870 from designs
by Sir A. Blomfield, of red brick, contains a reading-room, lecture-hall,
and on the upper floor St. Saviour's Church, in early Pointed style.

From Dering Street, on the south side of Oxford Street, the garden
of Lord Carnarvon's house in Tenterden Street extended nearly to Harewood
Place.

On the site are a noticeable stone-fronted house, now a carriage warehouse,
and the Royal Orthopædic Hospital, founded 1838 and removed here
from Bloomsbury Square in 1856.

Park Lane, up to 1769 called Tyburn Lane, was in the reign of Queen
Anne a desolate by-road, but is now a favourite place of residence
for the fashionable persons in the Metropolis.

It is
open to Hyde Park as far as Hamilton Place, whence it reaches Piccadilly
by a narrow street.

At its junction with the former stands an ornamental fountain by Thorneycroft, erected in 1875
at a cost of£ 5,000, the property of a lady who died intestate and without heirs. At the base are
the muses of Tragedy, Comedy, and History in bronze, above Chaucer,
Shakespeare and Milton in marble, the whole being surmounted by a
bronze statue of Fame.

The principal mansions in Park Lane are: Brook House, at the north
corner of Upper Brook Street, designed by T. H. Wyatt, and the residence
of the Earl of Tweedmouth, and next to it Dudley House.

Dorchester House (Captain Holford) was built by Vulliamy in 1852
on the site of the town house of the Damers, Earls of Dorchester.

The building, which stands in its own grounds, is rectangular, and
constructed of Portland stone in Italian Renaissance style.

On the narrow front is a carriage portico.

The reception rooms and marble staircase have few rivals in London;
they contain two libraries and a collection of pictures by old and
modern masters.

Here died in 1842 the Marquis of Hertford. Londonderry House, No. 18 (Marquis of Londonderry), was
built in 1850 by S. and J. Wyatt on the site of the residence of
the D'Arcys, Earls of Holdernesse.

It contains a fine gallery of pictures and sculpture. Other inhabitants:
the Duke of Somerset, in a house adjoining Camelford House, No. 35;
Sir Moses Montefiore, d. 1885; Park Lane Chambers, Earl Sondes, Lord
Monkbretton.

At the corner of Upper Grosvenor Street (then No. 1, Grosvenor Gate) Benjamin
Disraeli lived 1839-73. No. 24, Lord Brassey. No. 21, for many years
the Marquis of Breadalbane, and afterwards Lady Palmerston, when
left a widow in 1850; Earl of Scarborough.

Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton at a house then numbered 1. In 23, Richard Sharp, 1822-24; Mrs. Fitzherbert,
1785; Warren Hastings, 1790-97; Marquis Wellesley, 1796. Grosvenor Square and the surrounding streets
have always been the centre of the aristocratic world; the Square,
which includes about six acres, was built in 1695. The garden was laid
out by Kent, and in the centre stood formerly an equestrian statue of
George I., by Van Nost, placed there in 1726.

On the site, in 1642, was erected a fort named Oliver's Mount, which
stood as one of the defences against the Royalists until 1647. Owing
to the prejudices of the inhabitants, Grosvenor Square was not lit
by gas until 1842.

Inhabitants: Duchess of Kendal, d. 1743; Earl of Chesterfield, 1733-50; Bishop Warburton, 1757;
Lord Chancellor Hardwicke, 1758-64; Lord Rockingham, d. 1782; Henry
Thrale, d. 1781; Lord North, d. 1792; Thomas Raikes, 1832; Sir Thomas
Stamford Raffles; 10, Lord Canning and Lord Granville, 1841; 22, William
Beckford, 1800; 23, the Earl of Derby here married Miss Farren, actress,
in 1797; his successors resided here until 1832; Lord Stratford de
Redclyffe, d. 1880; 24, the Earl of Shaftesbury; 29, Sir John Beaumont;
30, John Wilkes, d. 1797; 39 (now 44), the Earl of Harrowby, 1820
(here the Cato Street conspirators proposed to murder the Ministry);
44, Countess of Pembroke.

The houses have since been renumbered. To give a list of the present inhabitants of note would
be impossible; it would be like copying a page out of the Red Book. Suffice to say there are living in
the Square two Dukes, one Marquess, three Earls, six Barons, and five Baronets, beside many other persons
of distinction.

At
the corner end of Park Street, and in South Street and Aldford Street, the old houses have been
pulled down and have been replaced by large, red-brick, ornamented
structures, such as have also been erected in Mount Street, Grosvenor
Street, and North and South Audley Street.

The spaces behind the houses are occupied by mews. Great improvements have also been effected
since 1887 in the housing of the working classes, particularly in the neighbourhood of Oxford Street,
and in Bourdon Street and Mount Row, by the erection of blocks of industrial dwellings by the
St. George's and Improved Industrial Dwellings Companies, under the
auspices of the Duke of Westminster.

In Park Street, formerly called Hyde Park Street, lived Miss Nelly O'Brien, 1768; 7, Sir William
Stirling Maxwell, M. P.; 26, Sir Humphry Davy, 1825, till his death; 113, Miss Lydia White,
d. 1827; 123, Richard Ford, author of "The Handbook for Spain." In North Audley Street, opposite
Green Street, is St. Mark's Church, built from designs by J. P. Deering in 1825-28, and reconstructed
in Romanesque style in 1878. Adjoining is the Vicarage, built in 1887, and at the back the St.
Mark's Institute, containing a church-room, mission-room, gymnasium,
and a working men's club. See! they are confronted, the old man and the maiden!
The tyrant and his victim; the slave dealer and the noble soul he had trafficked for!

Pale, but firm with high resolve, the girl looked for one moment at the man she had feared--whose
looks had checked her childish mirth, whose anger she had been taught to dread, even to the
sacrificing of her heart's best hopes.

Restlessly the old man slept; perchance he saw the piercing eyes that were, fixed upon him,
for he muttered of the road to the land of spirits. Listen to him, as he boasts of the warrior's
work.

"Many brave men have made this road. The friend of the Thunder Birds was worthy. Strike the
woman who would dare assist a warrior. Strike--"

"Deep in his heart she plunged the ready steel," and she drew it out, the life blood came quickly.
She alone heard his dying groan.

She left the teepee--her work was done. It was easy to wash the stains on her knife in the
waters of the lake.

When her mother arose, she looked at the pale countenance of her daughter. In vain she sought
to understand her muttered words. Harpstenah, as she tried to sleep, fancied she heard the
wild laugh of the water spirits. Clouds had obscured the moon, and distant thunder rolled along
the sky; and, roused by the clamorous grief of the many women assembled in the lodge, she heard
from them of the dark tragedy in which she had been the principal actor.

The murderer was not to be found. Red Deer was known to be far away. It only remained to bury
Cloudy Sky, with all the honors due to a medicine man.

Harpstenah joined in the weeping of the mourners--the fountains of a Sioux woman's tears are
easily unlocked. She threw her blanket upon the dead body.

Many were the rich presents made to the inanimate clay which yesterday influenced those who
still trembled lest the spirit of the dead war-chief would haunt them. The richest cloth enrobed
his body, and, a short distance from the village, he was placed upon a scaffold.

Food was placed beside him; it would be long before his soul would reach the city of spirits;
his strength would fail him, were it not for the refreshment of the tender flesh of the wild
deer he had loved to chase, and the cooling waters he had drank on earth, for many, many winters.

But after the death of Cloudy Sky, the heart of Harpstenah grew light. She joined again in
the ball plays on the prairies. It needed no vermilion on her cheek to show the brightness
of her eye, for the flush of hope and happiness was there.

The dark deed was forgotten; and when, in the time that the leaves began to fall, they prepared
the wild rice for winter's use, Red Deer was at her side.

He was a good hunter, and the parents were old. Red Deer ever kept them supplied with game--and
winter found her a wife, and a happy one too; for Red Deer loved her in very truth--and the
secret of the death of the medicine man was buried in their hearts.

CHAPTER VI.

Ten years had passed away since their marriage, and Red Deer had never brought another wife
to his teepee. Harpstenah was without a rival in his affections, if we except the three strong
boys who were growing up beside them.

Chaskè (the oldest son) could hunt for his mother, and it was well that he could, for his father's
strength was gone. Consumption wasted his limbs, and the once powerful arm could not now support
his drooping head.

The father and mother had followed Cloudy Sky to the world of spirits; they were both anxious
to depart from earth, for age had made them feeble, and the hardships of ninety years made
them eager to have their strength renewed, in the country where their ancestors were still
in the vigor of early youth. The band at Lake Calhoun were going on a hunt for porcupines;
a long hunt, and Harpstenah tried to deter her husband from attempting the journey; but he
thought the animating exercise of the chase would be a restorative to his feeble frame, and
they set out with the rest.

When the hunters had obtained a large number of those valued animals, the women struck their
teepees and prepared for their return. Harpstenah's lodge alone remained, for in it lay the
dying man--by his side his patient wife. The play of the children had ceased--they watched
with silent awe the pale face and bright eye of their father--they heard him charge their mother
to place food that his soul might be refreshed on its long journey. Not a tear dimmed her eye
as she promised all he asked.

"There is one thing, my wife," he said, "which still keeps my spirit on earth. My soul cannot
travel the road to the city of spirits--that long road made by the bravest of our warriors--while
it remembers the body which it has so long inhabited shall be buried far from its native village.
Your words were wise when you told me I had not strength to travel so far, and now my body
must lie far from my home--far from the place of my birth--from the village where I have danced
the dog feast, and from the shores of the 'spirit lakes' where my father taught me to use my
bow and arrow."

"Your body shall lie on the scaffold near your native village," his wife replied. "When I turn
from this place, I will take with me my husband; and my young children shall walk by my side.
My heart is as brave now as it was when I took the life of the medicine man. The love that
gave me courage then, will give me strength now. Fear not for me; my limbs will not be weary,
and when the Great Spirit calls me, I will hear his voice, and follow you to the land of spirits,
where there will be no more sickness nor trouble."

Many stars shone out that night; they assisted in the solemn and the sacred watch. The mother
looked at the faces of her sleeping sons, and listened to their heavy breathing; they had but
started on the journey of life.

She turned to her husband: it was but the wreck of a deserted house, the tenant had departed.

The warrior was already far on his journey; ere this, he had reached the lodge where the freed
spirit adorns itself ere entering upon its new abode. 

The Commander opened the window, and all the officers, who had come back to drink a last glass
of cognac, crowded near it.

The damp air blew into the room bringing in a kind of water dust,
which sprayed and powdered the beards, and a smell of inundation.

They were looking at the tall trees bending under the shower, the
broad valley darkened by this outflow of the black low clouds [*],
and in the distance the Church spire rising like a gray point in the
pelting rain.

[*] [Note from Brett: The original uses "clowds," but I think "clouds"
was intended.] Since the arrival of the Germans, the Church bell had
not rung.

It was in fact the only resistance with which the invaders met in that neighborhood, the resistance
of the bell-tower. The Curate had not refused to receive and feed Prussian soldiers; he had even,
on several occasions, accepted to drink a bottle of beer or claret
with the enemy Commander, who often used him as a benevolent intermediary.
But it was useless to ask him for a single ring of his bell; he would
rather have faced a firing squad.

That was his way of protesting against invasion, a peaceful protest, the protest of silence, the
only one, said he, that became a priest, a man of peace and not of blood. And everybody for ten miles
around praised the firmness, the heroism of Father Chantavoine, who
dared to affirm the public mourning and proclaim it by the obstinate
mutism of his Church.

       The Commander and his officers laughed in private at this manifestation
of inoffensive courage, and as the entire neighborhood showed themselves
obliging to them and docile to their orders, they willingly tolerated
the priest's silent patriotism.

Little Markgraf Wilhelm was the only one who would have liked to compel the bell to ring; he was
very indignant at the political condescendence of his superior officer towards the priest; and
every day he was beseeching the Commander to let him do once, just
once, "Ding-dong!

Ding-dong!" merely for the sake of having a little fun. And he begged for
it with feline gracefulness, the cajolery of a woman, the tenderness of
voice of a beloved mistress craving for something, but the Commander did not
yield, and to console himself, Mademoiselle Fifi exploded mines in
the chateau d'Uville.

The five men remained there, in a group, for a few minutes, inhaling the damp air. Finally Lieutenant
Fritz spoke with a thick laugh: "Decidedly, the ladies will not have fine
weather for their trip." Thereupon they separated, each going to his work,
the Captain having a great deal to do to make arrangements for the
dinner party.

When they met again at nightfall, they began to laugh at seeing each other dolled up coquettishly and
smart like on grand review days, perfumed, pomaded and hale.

The Commander's
hair seemed less gray than in the morning, and the Captain had shaved,
keeping only his mustache, which looked like a flame under his nose.

       

Notwithstanding the rain, the window was kept open and from time to
time one of them went over to listen. At ten minutes past six o'clock,
the Baron reported a distant rolling.

They all hurried downstairs, and soon the large carriage came up with the four horses still galloping,
covered with mud up to their backs, steaming and blowing.

And five women got off the carriage and stepped on the perron, five graceful girls carefully selected
by a chum of the Captain, to whom Pflicht had taken a card from his officer. They had not been reluctant
to come, knowing that they would be well paid; besides, they were quite well acquainted and familiar
with the Prussians, having been in intercourse with them for the
past three months and making the best of men as of things.

"Our business requires it," they told each other on their way, no doubt in order to ease off some secret
pricking of a remnant of conscience. And, presently, they were ushered
into the dining-room.

Lighted up, the dining-room looked still more lugubrious in its pitiful
dilapidation, and the table covered with viands, rich china and silver
plate, which had been discovered in the wall where the owner had hidden
them, gave to the premises the appearance of a low tavern, where
bandits are having supper after a successful raffle.

The Captain, radiant, took hold of the women as of a familiar thing, appreciating them, embracing them,
scenting them, estimating them at their value as instruments of pleasure;
and as the three younger men wanted to take one each, he objected
to it with authority, reserving to himself the privilege of making
the assignments, in perfect fairness, according to rank, so as not
to injure in any way the hierarchy.

Then, in order to preclude any discussion, any contest and any suspicion
of partiality, he lined them up according to height, and addressing
the tallest, in a tone of command: "Your name?"

She replied, raising her voice: "Pamela." Then he announced: "Number one,
by the name of Pamela, is adjudged to the Commander." Having then kissed
Blondine, the second as a mark of his claim to ownership, he offered the
fat Amanda to Lieutenant Otto; Eva la Tomate to Second-Lieutenant Fritz,
and the smallest of all, Rachel, a very young brunette, with black
eyes like ink spots, a Jewess whose pug nose confirmed the rule that
ascribes hooked noses to all her race, to the youngest officer, the
frail Markgraf Wilhelm von Eyrik.

As a matter of fact they were all pretty and plump, without any distinctive
character on their faces, shaped almost alike in appearance and style
and complexion by the daily practice of their illicit trade and the
life in common in disreputable houses. The three young men wanted immediately
to take their partners out of the room under pretext of offering them brushes
and soap for washing and freshening up; but the Captain was wise
enough not to allow it, claiming that they were clean enough to sit
down to dinner, and for fear that those who went up might want to
change their girls when they came down, and thus disturb the other
couples.

His experience prevailed. There were only plenty of kisses, kisses of expectancy. Suddenly Rachel
suffocated, coughing to tears and rejecting smoke through her nose.
The Markgraf, feigning to kiss her, had blown a whiff of tobacco
into her mouth.

She did not get angry, did not utter a single word, but glared at
her possessor with anger aroused way down at the bottom of her black
eyes.

They sat down to dinner.

The Commander himself seemed to be delighted; he took Pamela on his
right and Blondine on his left, and while unfolding his napkin, he declared:--
"This was a charming idea of yours, Captain!" Lieutenants Otto and
Fritz, polite and obsequious as if they were sitting near Society
ladies, did slightly intimidate their neighbors; but Baron von Kelweingstein,
let loose in his vice, was beaming; he cracked unsavory jokes, and
with his crown of red hair, seemed to be on fire.

He paid gallant compliments in his defective French of the Rhine, and his lewd
nonsense, smacking of taverns, expectorated through the hole between
his two broken teeth, reached the girls in the middle of a rapid fire
of saliva.

The girls did not understand his witticisms, and their intelligence
did not seem to be awakened until he sputtered obscene words, rough expressions,
crippled by his accent. Then all in a chorus began to laugh as if they
were demented, falling on the laps of their neighbors, repeating the
words which the Baron disfigured purposely in order to make them
say filthy things.

     Soon the men themselves flushed and excited by the
     female flesh spread under their nose and within reach of their hands,
lost all restraint, roaring, breaking the plates, while behind them
impassive soldiers were waiting.

The Commander
     only kept some restraint. Mademoiselle Fifi had taken Rachel on
his knees and deliberately working himself up to a pitch of frenzy,
kissed madly the ebony curls on her neck, inhaling through the thin
interstice between the gown and her skin, the sweet warmth of her
body and the full fragrance of her person; through the silk, he pinched
her furiously making her scream, seized with a rabid ferocity and
distracted by his craving for destruction.

Often also holding her in his arms, squeezing her as if he wanted to mix her with himself, he pressed
long kisses on the fresh lips of the Jewess and embraced her until he lost breath; but suddenly
he bit her so deep that a dash of blood flowed down the chin of the
young girl and ran into her waist.

Once more she looked at him, straight in the face, and washing the
wound, she muttered: "You will have to pay for it!"

He began to laugh, with a harsh laugh: "All right, I shall pay!" said he. At dessert, champagne
was served. The Commander rose and with the same tone as he would
have taken to drink the health of the Empress Augusta, he said: "To
our ladies!"

And a series
of toasts were then drunk, toasts with the gallantry and manner of
drunkards and troopers, mixed with obscene jokes, rendered still more
brutal by their ignorance of the language. They were rising one after
the other, trying to be witty, making efforts to be funny; and the
women, so intoxicated that they were hardly able to sit up, with their
vacant look, their heavy, clammy tongues, applauded vociferously each
time.

The Captain, no doubt intending to lend the orgy an atmosphere of gallantry, raised once more his
glass and pronounced: "To our victories over the hearts!" Then Lieutenant Otto, a kind of bear
from the Black Forest, jumped up, inflamed, saturated with drinks,
and suddenly, carried away by alcoholic patriotism, he cried: "To
our victories over France!"

Intoxicated as they were, the women kept silent and Rachel, shuddering with rage, retorted: "Well!
I know some Frenchmen in whose presence you would not dare say such things." But the little
Markgraf, still holding her on his knees, began to laugh, having become exceedingly exhilarated by
the wine: "Ah! Ah! Ah! I never met any myself. As soon as they see us,
they run away."

The girl exasperated, shouted in his face: "You lie, you dirty pig!" For a second he fixed on her
his clear eyes, as he used to fix them on the paintings the canvas of which he riddled with
revolver shots; then he laughed: "Oh yes! let us speak of it, you
beauty!

       Would we be here if they were brave?"-- and he became more and more
excited: "We are their masters; France belongs to us!"

Even Rachel kept silent, unable to reply. Then the little Markgraf placed on the head of the Jewess
his glass of Champaign, refilled, and said-- "The women of France belong to us!" She jumped
up so quickly that the glass was upset and spilled the yellow wine in her black hair, as for a baptism;
it fell broken to pieces on the floor. And what are you doing here,
you little one?

"Confused, at first, she did not answer, as she did not, in her excitement, understand fully
what he said; then, as soon as the meaning of it dawned on her mind,
she shouted at him indignantly and vehemently:" I, I, I am not a woman!
I am a prostitute! and that is all a Prussian deserves!

"Hardly had she finished, that he slapped her face violently; but,
as he was raising his hand again, maddened with rage she caught on
the table a small silver-bladed dessert knife, and so quickly that
nobody noticed it, she stabbed him right in the neck, just at the
hollow where the breast begins.

A word, that he was about to mutter, was cut short in his throat, and he remained stiff, with
his mouth open and a frightful look.

All
shouted and got up tumultuously; but having thrown her chair in the legs of Lieutenant Otto, who
collapsed and fell down at full length, she ran to the window, opened
it before they could catch her, and jumped out in the night, under
the rain that was still falling.

[*] [Note from Brett: The original uses" fugutive, "but, again, I think this is a typographical
error as there is no such word.] Fifty men, whipped by threats, were launched on her trail in the
park; two hundred others searched the woods and all the houses of
the Valley.

The table, cleared in an instant, was turned into a mortuary bed, and the four officers, straight,
rigid and sobered up, with the harsh faces of warriors on duty stood near the windows, searching
and scanning the night. The torrential rain was continuing.

An incessant rippling filled the darkness, a floating murmur of water that falls and water that
runs, water that drops and water that gushes forth.

Suddenly a rifle shot was heard; then another far away; and thus for four hours one heard from
time to time, near or distant reports of firing and rallying cries, strange
words shouted like a call by guttural voices.

At daybreak everybody returned. Two soldiers had been killed and three
others wounded by their comrades in the eagerness of the chase and
the confusion of the nocturnal pursuit.

They had not been able to find Rachel.

Then the inhabitants were terrorized, the houses searched most carefully, the whole region combed,
beaten, scoured. The Jewess did not seem to have left any trace of her passage. The General, who
had been notified, ordered to hush the matter up so as not to give
a bad example in the Army, and he disciplined the Commander who, in
turn, punished his subordinates.

The General had said:" We do not go to war to indulge in orgies and
caress prostitutes.

"And exasperated Graf Farlsberg resolved to take revenge on the country. As he needed a pretext
to take drastic measures without constraint, he summoned the Priest and ordered him to ring
the Church bell at the burial of Markgraf von Eyrik. Contrary to general expectation, the priest
showed himself docile, humble, full of attention.

It rang also in the evening, and the next day and every day; it chimed
as much as they wanted.

Sometimes also, in the dead of night, it would ring all alone and throw two or three notes in the
darkness, seized by a singular mirth, awakened one knew not why.

All the peasants in the neighborhood then thought that the bell had
been bewitched; and no one except the Priest and the Sexton came near
the bell-tower.

When they reached the Gate, the Priest kissed her; she got off the cart and quickly went back
to the disreputable house, the keeper of which had thought that she
was dead.

She was taken out of the house of prostitution shortly afterwards
by a patriot without prejudice, who loved her for her brave act, and
then, having loved her for herself, married her and made of her a
lady as good as many others.

Boule de Suif For several days in succession the remnants of a routed
army had been passing through the City. They were not troops, but
disorganized hordes. The men had long, dirty beards and tattered uniforms;
they walked with a listless gait, without flag nor formation. All
seemed exhausted, worn out, incapable of thought or resolve, marching
only by force of habit and dropping with fatigue as soon as they
stopped.

One saw for the most part hastily mobilized men, peaceful business men and rentiers, bending under
the weight of their rifles; young snappy volunteers, easily scared,
but full of enthusiasm, ready to attack as well as to retreat; then,
among them, a few red trousers, fragments of a division decimated
in a great battle; despondent artillery men aligned with these non-descript
infantrymen; and there and there the shining helmet of a heavy footed
dragon who had difficulty in keeping step with the quicker pace of
the soldiers of the line.

Legions of francs-tireurs with heroic names:" Avengers of Defeat "--" Citizens of the Tombs "--"
Brothers in Death "-- passed in their turn looking like bandits. Their leaders, former drapers
or grain merchants, tallow or soap dealers, warriors for the circumstance,
who had been commissioned officers on account of their money or the
length of their mustaches; covered with arms, flannel and stripes,
they were talking in a high-sounding voice, discussing plans of campaign,
and claiming that they alone supported on their shoulders agonizing
France; as a matter of fact, these braggarts were afraid of their
own men, scoundrels often brave to excess, but always ready for pillage
and debauch.

It was rumored that the Prussians were going to enter Rouen. The National Guard who, for the past
two months, had been very carefully reconnoitering in the neighboring
woods, at times shooting their own sentries and getting ready to fight
when a little rabbit rustled in the bushes, had been mustered out
and returned to their homes.

Their arms, uniforms, all their deadly apparel, with which they had recently frightened the milestones
along the national highways for three leagues around, had suddenly
disappeared.

The last of the French soldiers had just crossed the Seine to go to Pont-Andemer by Saint Sever and
Bourg-Achard; and following them all, their general, desperate, unable to attempt anything with
such non-descript wrecks, himself dismayed in the crushing debacle
of a people accustomed to conquer and now disastrously defeated despite
their legendary bravery, was walking between two orderlies.

Then a profound calm, a trembling and silent expectancy hovered over the City. Many corpulent well
to do citizens, emasculated by the business life they had led, were
anxiously waiting for the victors, fearing lest they might consider
as weapons their roasting spits or their large kitchen knives.

Life seemed to be at a standstill; the shops were closed and the streets silent and deserted.
Sometimes a citizen, intimidated by this silence, ran rapidly along the walls. Then, a little
later, a black mass came down the Ste.

Catherine Hill, while two other invading waves appeared on the Darnetal and Boisguillame roads.
The vanguards of the three corps made their junction at precisely the same
time in the Hotel de Ville Square; and, by all the neighboring roads,
the German Army was arriving, rolling its battalions that made the
pavements ring under their heavy and well measured steps.

Orders shouted in an unknown and guttural voice, rose along the houses
which seemed dead and deserted, while behind the closed shutters,
eyes watched these victorious men, masters of the City, of property
and life by the right of war.

The inhabitants, in their darkened rooms, felt the bewilderment caused by
cataclysms, the great bloody upheavals of the earth against which
all human wisdom and force are of no avail.

For the same feeling reappears whenever the established order of
things is upset, when security ceases to exist, when all that is protected
by the laws of men or those of protected nature, is at the mercy of
unreasoning and ferocious brutality.

The earthquake crushing a whole nation under crumbling houses; the overflowing river swirling the
bodies of drowned peasants along with the dead oxen and the beams torn away from the roofs, or the
glorious army massacring those who defend themselves, taking away the others as prisoners, pillaging
in the name of the sword and offering thanks to God to the thunder
of the guns, are as many appalling scourges which disconcert any belief
in eternal justice, all the trust we were taught to place in the protection
of heaven and the reason of man.

Small detachments knocked at each door and then disappeared in the
houses. It was occupation after invasion. Now the vanquished had
to show themselves nice to their conquerors.

After a while, once the first terror had abated, a new tranquility
settled down.

In
many houses the Prussian Officer took his meals with the family. Some
were well bred, and out of politeness, showed sympathy for France
and spoke of their reluctance to participate in the war.

People were grateful for such sentiments; furthermore, they might have needed their protection
any day. By being nice to them they would possibly have fewer men billeted to their houses. And
why hurt the feelings of a man who had full power over them? To act
in that way would be less bravery than temerity-- and temerity is
no longer a failing of the citizens of Rouen, as in the days of heroic
defense when their City became famous.

Last of all-- supreme argument derived from French urbanity-- they said that they could allow
themselves to be polite in their own houses, provided they did not
exhibit in public too much familiarity with the foreign soldier.

On the streets they passed each other as strangers, but at home they
willingly chatted, and every night the German stayed up later and later,
warming himself at the family fire-place. Even the City was gradually
resuming some of its ordinary aspect.

The French were seldom seen promenading in the Streets, but Prussian
soldiers swarmed.

Besides, the officers of the Blue Hussars, who arrogantly rattled their big instruments of death
on the pavements, did not seem to have for the plain citizens enormously more contempt than the officers
of the French Chasseurs who, the year before, had been drinking in the same Cafes. There was,
however, something in the air, something subtle and unknown, an
intolerable foreign atmosphere like an offensive odor-- the smell
of invasion.

It pervaded the houses and the public places, changed the taste of
food and made you feel as if you were traveling in far distant lands,
amid barbarians and dangerous tribes. The conquerors exacted money,
a great deal of money. The citizens kept on paying; they could afford
to pay, they were rich. But the more a Norman businessman becomes opulent,
the more he suffers when he has to make any sacrifice, or sees any parcel
of his property pass into the hands of others. And yet, within a
distance of two or three leagues from the City, down the river, in
the direction of Croisset, Dieppendalle or Biessart, boatmen and fishermen
often hauled from the bottom of the water the body of some German
swollen in his uniform, killed with a knife or by a blow of savate,
his head crushed by a stone, or pushed from a bridge into the water.

The mud of the river-bed buried such obscure, savage and yet legitimate vengeances, unknown acts of heroism,
silent attacks more perilous than battles in the open, and yet without
any of the halo and glamour of glory.

For hatred of the foreigner always arms some intrepid persons ready to die for an idea. As the invaders,
although subjecting the City to their inflexible discipline, had committed none of the horrors
which rumor credited them with having perpetrated all along their triumphal march, people became bolder,
and desire to do business belabored again the hearts of the local merchants.
Some of them had large interest in Havre, which was occupied by the
French Army, and they tried to reach that sea port in going by land
to Dieppe and proceeding from there by boat.

They used the influence of the German Officers, with whom they had
become acquainted, and a special permit was secured from the General
in Chief.

Now then, a large four-horse coach having been engaged for this trip, and ten persons having had their names
booked with the driver, it was decided to leave on a Tuesday morning, before daybreak, to avoid
attracting any crowd. For some time past the frost had hardened the ground, and on that particular
Monday, at about three o'clock, big black clouds coming from the North brought the snow which fell
without interruption all that evening and during the whole night.

At half past four in the morning, the travelers met in the courtyard of the Hotel de Normandie, where
they were to take the coach.

CHAPTER III.

The dance to the Giant is always performed inside the wigwam. Early in the morning the dancers
were assembled in the chief's lodge. Their dress was such as is appointed for the occasion.
Their hats were made of the bark of trees, such as tradition says the Giant wears. They were
large, and made forked like the lightning. Their leggins were made of skins. Their ear-rings
were of the bark of trees, and were about one foot long.

The chief rose ere the dawn of day, and stood before the fire. As the flames flickered, and
the shadows of the dancers played fantastically about the wigwam, they looked more like Lucifer
and a party of attendant spirits, than like human beings worshipping their God.

Markeda stood by the fire without noticing his guests, who awaited his motions in silence.
At last, moving slowly, he placed a kettle of water on the fire, and then threw into it a large
piece of buffalo meat.

Lighting his pipe, he seated himself, and then the dancers advanced to the fire and lit theirs;
and soon they were enveloped in a cloud of smoke.

When the water began to boil, the Indians arose, and, dancing round the fire, imitated the
voice of the Giant.

"Hah-hah! hah hah!" they sung, and each endeavored to drown the voice of the other. Now they
crouch as they dance, looking diminutive and contemptible, as those who are degrading themselves
in their most sacred duties. Then they rise up, and show their full height. Stalwart warriors
as they are, their keen eyes flash as they glance from the fire to each others' faces, distorted
with the effort of uttering such discordant sounds. Now their broad chests heave with the exertion,
and their breath comes quickly.

They seat themselves, to rest and smoke. Again the hellish sounds are heard, and the wife of
the chief trembles for fear of the Giant, and her child clings closer to her breast. The water
boils, and, hissing, falls over into the fire, the flames are darkened for a moment, and then
burst up brighter than before.

Markeda addresses the dancers--"Warriors! the Giant is powerful--the water which boils before
us will be cold when touched by a friend of the Giant. Haokah will not that his friends should
suffer when offering him a sacrifice."

The warriors then advanced together, and each one puts his hand into the kettle and takes the
meat from the boiling water; and although suffering from the scalds produced, yet their calmness
in enduring the pain, would induce the belief that the water really felt to them cool and pleasant.

The meat is then taken out, and put into a wooden dish, and the water left boiling on the fire.
The dancers eat the meat while hot, and again they arrange themselves to dance. And now, the
mighty power of the Giant is shown, for Markeda advances to the kettle, and taking some water
out of it he throws it upon his bare back, singing all the while, "The water is cold."

"Old John" advances and does the same, followed by the next in turn, until the water is exhausted
from the kettle, and then the warriors exclaim, "How great is the power of Haokah! we have
thrown boiling water upon ourselves and we have not been scalded."

The dance is over--the sacrifice is made. Markeda seeks his young wife and fears not. He had
fancied that her cheeks were pale of late, but now they are flushed brilliantly, his heart
is at rest.

The warriors disperse, all but the medicine man, and the chief's store of buffalo meat diminishes
rapidly under the magic touch of the epicure.

Yes! an epicure thou wert old John! for I mind me well when thou camest at dinner time, and
how thou saidst thou couldst eat the food of the Indian when thou wert hungry, but the food
of the white man was better far. And thou! a Dahcotah warrior, a famous hunter, and a medicine
man. "It clouded over before Night and rained sometime before day which caused us to stretch Our
blankets and lye under them on ye bare Ground, which was the first bare ground we laid on after
we left Northfield." It was on April 9 that they measured the present
north line of Heath.

Let the clear-eyed surveyor describe in his own words the general situation of the future Fort
Shirley.

"At the End of three miles we came to a large brook running Southeasterly
and at the End of this days measure to another large brook running
Southerly, by which we took Our lodging.

Here we tract a Bear and therefore named it Bear brook, both these brooks being branches of
Deerfield River. The land this day was some of the best of Land and
for three miles together.

The last year Pigeons'nests were so thick that 500 might have been
told on the beech trees at One time, and they could have been counted
on the Hemlocks as well, I believe three thousand at one turn Round.

The snow was for ye most part three feet deep, the weather was fair
and wind Northwest."

Although Hazen named the last mountain on his line where he supposed the eastern line of New York,
would ultimately run "Mount Belcher," in honor of the Governor who
had commissioned him to lay it, the just unpopularity of the line
itself and Belcher's connection with it immediately caused his recall
from his government, and the appointment of William Shirley in his
stead.

Belcher was Massachusetts born; while Shirley, though British born, became one of the ablest and
most successful of all the colonial governors of Massachusetts. The building of Fort Shirley in
1744 and the naming it after the new Governor, as well as the building
a little later of the two forts to the westward,-- Fort Pelham in Rowe
and Fort Massachusetts in what is now North Adams,-- all within a couple
of miles of the new boundary line, showed a concern of the colony
for its now greatly curtailed northern limits, as well as a much greater
concern for the defence of the scattered settlements west of the Connecticut
river from the French and Indians, who had several well-trod war-paths
to the English settlements on the Connecticut and the Deerfield.

But, after all, the route by the Hoosac River had been and continued the main path from Canada
to New England for the French and their savage Indian allies. Whether they came down the Hudson
to the mouth of the Hoosac at Schaghticoke, or struck that river on the flank at Eagle Bridge,
there was a well-beaten trail-- the old Mohawk trail-- along the north
bank of that river all the way from Schaghticoke to what is now North
Adams; and, in continuation of that river trail, the "old Indian path"
over the Hoosac Mountain, directly over the line of the present Hoosac
Tunnel, led down to the upper reaches of the Deerfield river and so
down to the Connecticut at old Deerfield.

The feast was prepared, and the crier called for all virgins to enter the sacred ring.

Wenona went forward with a beating heart; she was not a wife, and soon must be a mother. Wanska,
the Merry Heart, was there, and many others who wondered at the pale looks of Wenona--she who
had been on a journey, and who ought to have returned with color bright as the dying sun, whose
light illumined earth, sky and water.

As they entered the ring a party of warriors approached the circle. After an existence of one hundred
and forty-one years, the old well of Fort Shirley, which was undoubtedly within the block-house
and probably in one corner of the enclosure away from the "parade," is able to tell pretty
thoroughly to this day the story of its own construction. Four forest staddles about six inches
in diameter, one for each comer of the well, were set upright on
the ground, and then ash planks rived from a log about five feet long
were pinned or spiked on the outside of these staddles, beginning
at the bottom; and this frame being placed on the ground where the
well was to be, the earth was thrown out over the sides, and so the
well was gradually sunk to the required depth, the plank-siding being
added gradually as the shaft was lowered.

These rived planks and the tops of the four corner-poles, that can now be seen and fingered
less than two feet below the surface of the ground, were not very
uniform in thickness, and of course have rotted off at the top by
time and exposure; but enough of both has been preserved till this
time by constant submergence in the water and in the unusually moist
soil above it to betray without any serious question the nature of
the materials used and the mode of their employment.

One of the corner-posts was a black birch and the bark on it is in a good state of preservation
at and below the surface of the water.

The last incident to be mentioned at this time in connection with Fort Shirley relates to the
Rev. John Norton, his wife and daughter.

Norton was born in Berlin, Conn., in 1716; was graduated at Yale College in 1737; was ordained
in Fall Town, since Bernardston, Mass., in 1741; he was the first
minister in that town, "but owing to the unsettled state of the times,"
and to the fact that his people lay right in the angle between the
military line of the Connecticut and that of the Deerfield, and had
consequently as much as they could do, to maintain their families
exposed as they were, he labored there about four years, and was appointed
chaplain to the line of forts almost as soon as the men were fairly
in garrison.

He was in Fort Massachusetts when it was besieged and captured by an army of French and Indians
in August, 1746; went captive with the rest of the garrison to Quebec; returned, exchanged, in just
a year; and wrote an account of the siege, the journey northwards,
the captivity, and the return, a precious little book, which he entitled
after a memorable precedent "The Redeemed Captive."

His narrative begins as follows.-- "Thursday, August 14, 1746, I left Fort Shirley in company
with Dr. Williams and about fourteen of the soldiers; we went to Pelham Fort, and from thence to Captain
Rice's, where we lodged that night.

Friday, the 15th, we went from thence to Fort Massachusetts, where I designed to have tarried
about a month. Saturday, 16th, the Doctor with fourteen men, went off for Deerfield, and left in
the fort Sergeant John Hawks with twenty soldiers, about half of
them sick with bloody flux."

We can not now follow the good chaplain in his deeply interesting narrative. He makes no mention
in it of his family, but it is certain from other data that he left
Mrs. Norton and his young children in garrison at Fort Shirley, and
that just about the time of his return from captivity to Boston, which
was August 16, 1747, his little girl, Anna, died at the fort and was
buried in the field a little to the west of it.

Probably some soldier in the fort chiselled upon the rude stone the
inscription as follows: Hear lys ye body of An'na D: of ye Rev: Mr.
John Norton.

She died Aug; ye---- aged---- 1747. This stone
stood there in the bleak field exposed to the suns of summer and
the storms of winter for more than one hundred and thirty years.

The day of August on which she died and the number of years she had
lived have become illegible by exposure,-- impossible to be deciphered.

At the end of the fourth tune the squaws all run out of the ring as fast as possible, and must
leave by the same way that they entered, the other three entrances being reserved for the men,
who, carrying their war implements, might be accidentally touched by one of the squaws--and
the war implements of the Sioux warrior have from time immemorial been held sacred from the
touch of woman. For the same reason the men form the inner ring in dancing round the pole,
their war implements being placed at the foot of the pole.

When the last tune is ended, the young men shoot at the image of thunder which is hanging to
the pole, and when it falls a general rush is made by the warriors to get hold of it. There
is placed at the foot of the pole a bowl of water colored with blue clay. While the men are
trying to seize the parts of the bark representation of their god, they at the same time are
eagerly endeavoring to drink the water in the bowl, every drop of which must be drank. 

Finally I found an opportunity to go, I left, and here I am!

"She was warmly congratulated. She was rising in the esteem of her traveling companions, who had
not shown themselves as fearless. And in listening to her, Cornudet had the approving and benevolent
smile of an apostle, in the same way as a priest hears a devout person
praise God, for long-bearded democrats have the monopoly of patriotism
just as the men in cassocks have the monopoly of religion.

He spoke, in his turn, with a dogmatic tone, with the declamatory emphasis learned from proclamations
daily posted on the walls, and he winded up with a piece of eloquence in which he condemned masterfully
that" scoundrel of Napoleon III.

"But Boule de Suif became angry immediately because she was a partisan of the Bonapartes. She
turned as red as a cherry and stuttering with indignation:--" I should have like to see you in
his place, you and your friends! It would have been nice, oh yes!
It is you who betrayed the poor man!

If we were ruled by rascals like you, there would remain nothing else to do for us but leave
France. "-- Impassive, Cornudet kept a superior and contemptuous smile, but one could feel that
big words were impending, when the Count interposed and, not without
some difficulty, calmed the exasperated girl by proclaiming authoritatively
that all sincere opinions should be respected. Those
willing to join in must lay aside all clothing, painting their bodies with a reddish gray color,
like the elk's. Each Indian must procure two long saplings, leaving the boughs upon them. These
are to aid the Indians in running. The saplings must be about twelve feet in length. With them
they tear down the bark image of thunder, which is hung with a string to the top of the pole. 

Passing the shrine of Saint Swithun, and the grand tomb of Cardinal Beaufort, where his life-coloured
effigy filled the boys with wonder, they followed their leader's example, and knelt within the
Lady Chapel, while the brief Latin service for the ninth hour was
sung through by the canon, clerks, and boys.

It really was the Sixth, but cumulative easy-going treatment of the Breviary had made this
the usual time for it, as the name of noon still testifies.

The boys'attention, it must be confessed, was chiefly expended on
the wonderful miracles of the Blessed Virgin in fresco on the walls
of the chapel, all tending to prove that here was hope for those who
said their Ave in any extremity of fire or flood.

Nones ended, Father Shoveller, with many a halt for greeting or for gossip, took the lads up the hill
towards the wide fortified space where the old Castle and royal Hall
of Henry of Winchester looked down on the city, and after some friendly
passages with the warder at the gate, Father Shoveller explained that
he was in quest of some one recently come from court, of whom the
striplings in his company could make inquiry concerning a kinsman
in the household of my Lord Archbishop of York.

The warder scratched his head, and bethinking himself that Eastcheap Jockey was the reverend father's
man, summoned a horse-boy to call that worthy.

"Where was he?"

"Sitting over his pottle in the Hall," was the reply, and the monk, with a laugh savouring little
of asceticism, said he would seek him there, and accordingly crossed the court to the noble
Hall, with its lofty dark marble columns, and the Round Table of King Arthur suspended at the
upper end. The governor of the Castle had risen from his meal long ago, but the garrison in the
piping times of peace would make their ration of ale last as far into the afternoon as their
commanders would suffer. And half a dozen men still sat there, one or two snoring, two playing
at dice on a clear corner of the board, and another, a smart well-dressed fellow in a bright
scarlet jerkin, laying down the law to a country bumpkin, who looked somewhat dazed. The first
of these was, as it appeared, Eastcheap Jockey, and there was something both of the readiness
and the impudence of the Londoner in his manner, when he turned to
answer the question.

He knew many in my Lord of York's house-- as many as a man was like to know where there was
a matter of two hundred folk between clerks and soldiers, he had often crushed a pottle with
them. No; he had never heard of one called Randall, neither in hat nor cowl, but he knew more
of them by face than by name, and more by by name than surname or christened name. He was
certainly not the archer who had brought a token for Mistress Birkenholt, and his comrades
all avouched equal ignorance on the subject. Nothing could be gained there, and while Father
Shoveller rubbed his bald head in consideration, Stephen rose to
take leave.

"Look you here, my fair son," said the monk. "Starting at this hour, though the days be long,
you will not reach any safe halting place with daylight, whereas by lying a night in this good
city, you might reach Alton to-morrow, and there is a home where
the name of Brother Shoveller will win you free lodging and entertainment."

"And to-night, good Father?" inquired Ambrose.

"That will I see to, if ye will follow me."

Stephen was devoured with impatience during the farewells in the
Castle, but Ambrose represented that the good man was giving them
much of his time, and that it would be unseemly and ungrateful to
break from him.

"What matter is it of his? And why should he make us lose a whole day?" grumbled Stephen. "What
special gain would a day be to us?" sighed Ambrose. "I am thankful that any should take heed for us."
"Ay, you love leading-strings," returned Stephen.

"Where is he going now?

All out of our way!"

Father Shoveller, however, as he went down the Castle hill, explained that the Warden of Saint Elizabeth's
Hospital was his friend, and knowing him to have acquaintance among
the clergy of Saint Paul's, it would be well to obtain a letter of
commendation from him, which might serve them in good stead in case
they were disappointed of finding their uncle at once.

"It would be better for Spring to have a little more rest," thought
Stephen, thus mitigating his own longing to escape from the monks
and friars, of whom Winchester seemed to be full.

They had a kindly welcome in the pretty little college of Saint Elizabeth
of Hungary, lying in the meadows between William of Wykeham's College
and the round hill of Saint Catherine.

The Warden was a more scholarly and ecclesiastical-looking person than
his friend, the good-natured Augustinian. After commending them to
his care, and partaking of a drink of mead, the monk of Silkstede
took leave of the youths, with a hearty blessing and advice to husband
their few crowns, not to tell every one of their tokens, and to follow the
counsel of the Warden of Saint Elizabeth's, assuring them that if
they turned back to the Forest they should have a welcome at Silkstede.
 We rejoiced
that the religion which was our comfort was not confined to places; here were no altars, nor
marble tablets--but here in this humble house we knew God would meet and be with us.

An Indian silently opened the church door and entered. As strange to him was the solemn decorum
of this scene, as to us were the useless ceremonies we every day witnessed. He watched the
countenance of the clergyman, but he knew not that he was preaching the doctrine of a universal
religion. He saw the sacred book upon the desk, but he could not read the glorious doctrine
of a world redeemed by a Saviour's blood. He heard the voice of prayer, but how could his soul
like ours rise as on eagle's wings, and ascend to the throne of God! Who was he, this intruder?
It may be a descendant of those who guarded the oracles of God, who for a time preserved them
for us. 

I understood-- ""

It was this way. Me son,'e ses to me,'Mother,'' e says,'don't you worry, but I've had a toe
took off.'' E never was one to put up a great shout'bout hisself, nor nothink
of that. They took'im down to their base'ospital.

