There was a dead silence for a moment. Then the stranger stretched forth his hand. "Yet in
that leaving him, remember;--It is not the act, but the will, which marks the soul of the man.
He who has crushed a nation sins no more than he who rejoices in the death throe of the meanest
creature. The stagnant pool is not less poisonous drop for drop than the mighty swamp, though
its reach be smaller. He who has desired to be and accomplish what this man has been and accomplished,
is as this man; though he have lacked the power to perform. Nay, remember this one thing more:--Certain
sons of God are born on earth, named by men Children of Genius. In early youth each stands
at the parting of the way and chooses; he bears his gift for others or for himself. But forget
this never, whatever his choice may be; that there is laid on him a burden that is laid not
on others--all space is open to him, and his choice is infinite--and if he falls beneath it,
let men weep rather than curse, for he was born a Son of God."

There was silence again. Then Peter Halket clasped his arms about the stranger's feet. "My
master," he cried, "I dare not take that message. It is not that men may say, 'Here is Trooper
Peter Halket, whom we all know, a man who kept women and shot niggers, turned prophet.' But
it is, that it is true. Have I not wished--" and Peter Halket would have poured out all his
soul; but the stranger prevented him.

"Peter Simon Halket," he said, "is it the trumpet which gives forth the call to battle, whether
it be battered tin or gilded silver, which boots? Is it not the call? What and if I should
send my message by a woman or a child: shall truth be less truth because the bearer is despised?
Is it the mouth that speaks or the word that is spoken which is eternal? Nevertheless, if you
will have it so, go, and say, 'I, Peter Halket, sinner among you all, who have desired women
and gold, who have loved myself and hated my fellow, I--'" The stranger looked down at him,
and placed his hand gently on his head. "Peter Simon Halket," he said, "a harder task I give
you than any which has been laid upon you. In that small spot where alone on earth your will
rules, bring there into being the kingdom today. Love your enemies; do good to them that hate
you. Walk ever forward, looking not to the right hand or the left. Heed not what men shall
say of you. Succour the oppressed; deliver the captive. If thine enemy hunger, feed him; if
he is athirst give him drink."

A curious warmth and gladness stole over Peter Halket as he knelt; it was as, when a little
child, his mother folded him to her: he saw nothing more about him but a soft bright light.
Yet in it he heard a voice cry, "Because thou hast loved mercy--and hated oppression--"

When Trooper Peter Halket raised himself, he saw the figure of the stranger passing from him.
He cried, "My Master, let me go with you." But the figure did not turn. And, as it passed into
the darkness, it seemed to Peter Halket that the form grew larger and larger: and as it descended
the further side of the kopje it seemed that for one instant he still saw the head with a pale,
white light upon it: then it vanished.

And Trooper Peter Halket sat alone upon the kopje.

Chapter II.

It was a hot day. The sun poured down its rays over the scattered trees, and stunted bush,
and long grass, and over the dried up river beds. Far in the blue, so high the eye could scarcely
mark them, vultures were flying southward, where forty miles off kraals had been destroyed
and two hundred black carcasses were lying in the sun.

Under a group of tall straggling trees among the grass and low scrub, on the banks of an almost
dried up river bed, a small camp had been pitched.

The party had lost their mules, and pending their recovery had already been there seven days.
The three cart loads of provisions they were conveying to the large camp were drawn up under
the trees and had a sail thrown across them to form a shelter for some of the men; while on
the other side of the cleared and open space that formed the camp, a smaller sail was thrown
across two poles forming a rough tent; and away to the left, a little cut off from the rest
of the camp by some low bushes, was the bell-shaped tent of the captain, under a tall tree.
Before the bell-shaped tent stood a short stunted tree; its thick white stem gnarled and knotted;
while two stunted misshapen branches, like arms, stretched out on either side.

Before this tree, up and down, with his gun upon his arm, his head bent and his eyes fixed
on the ground, while the hot sun blazed on his shoulders, walked a man.

Three or four fires were burning about the camp in different parts, three cooking the mealies
and rice which formed the diet of the men, their stock of tinned meats having been exhausted;
while the fourth, which was watched by a native boy, contained the more appetising meal of
the Captain.

Most of the men were out of camp; the coloured boys having gone to fetch the mules, which had
been discovered in the hills a few miles off, and were expected to arrive in the evening; and
the white men had gone out to see what game they could bring down with their guns to flavour
the mealie pots, or to reconnoitre the country; though all native habitations had been destroyed
within a radius of thirty miles, and the land was as bare of black men as a child's hand of
hair; and even the beasts seemed to have vanished.

In the shade of the tent, formed of the canvas across two posts, lay three white men, whose
work it was to watch the pots and guard the camp. They were all three Colonial Englishmen,
and lay on the ground on their stomachs, passing the time by carrying on a desultory conversation,
or taking a few whiffs, slowly, and with care, from their pipes, for tobacco was precious in
the camp.

Under some bushes a few yards off lay a huge trooper, whose nationality was uncertain, but
who was held to hail from some part of the British Isles, and who had travelled round the world.
He was currently reported to have done three years' labour for attempted rape in Australia,
but nothing certain was known regarding his antecedents. He had been up on guard half the night,
and was now taking his rest lying on his back with his arm thrown over his face; but a slight
movement could be noted in his jaw as he slowly chewed a piece of tobacco; and occasionally
when he turned it round the mouth opened, and disclosed two rows of broken yellow stumps set
in very red gums.

The three Colonial Englishmen took no notice of him. Two, who were slowly smoking, were of
the large and powerful build, and somewhat loose set about the shoulders, which is common among
Colonial Europeans of the third generation, whether Dutch or English, and had the placidity
and general good temper of expression which commonly marks the Colonial European who grows
up beyond the range of the cities. The third was smaller and more wiry and of an unusually
nervous type, with aquiline nose, and sallow hatchet face, with a somewhat discontented expression.
He was holding forth, while his companions smoked and listened.

"Now what I say is this," he brought his hand down on the red sand; "here we are with about
one half teaspoon of Dop given us at night, while he has ten empty champagne bottles lying
behind his tent. And we have to live on the mealies we're convoying for the horses, while he
has pati and beef, and lives like a lord! It's all very well for the regulars; they know what
they're in for, and they've got gentlemen over them anyhow, and one can stomach anything if
you know what kind of a fellow you've got over you. English officers are gentlemen, anyhow;
or if one was under Selous now--"

"Oh, Selous's a MAN!" broke out the other two, taking their pipes from their mouths.

"Yes, well, that's what I say. But these fellows, who couldn't do as farmers, and couldn't
do as shopkeepers, and God knows what else; and their friends in England didn't want to have
them; they're sent out here to boss it over us! It's a damned shame! Why, I want to know, amn't
I as good as any of these fellows, who come swelling it about here? Friends got money, I suppose!"
He cast his sharp glance over towards the bell tent. "If they gave us real English officers now--"

"Ah!" said the biggest of his companions, who, in spite of his huge form, had something of
the simplicity and good nature of a child in his handsome face; "it's because you're not a
big enough swell, you know! He'll be a colonel, or a general, before we've done with him. I
call them all generals or colonels up here; it's safest, you know; if they're not that today
they will be tomorrow!"

This was intended as a joke, and in that hot weather, and in that dull world, anything was
good enough to laugh at: the third man smiled, but the first speaker remained serious.

"I only know this," he said, "I'd teach these fellows a lesson, if any one belonging to me
had been among the people they left to be murdered here, while they went gallivanting to the
Transvaal. If my mother or sister had been killed here, I'd have taken a pistol and blown out
the brains of the great Panjandrum, and the little ones after him. Fine administration of a
country, this, to invite people to come in and live here, and then take every fighting man
out of the country on a gold hunting marauding expedition to the Transvaal, and leave us to
face the bitter end. I look upon every man and woman who was killed here as murdered by the
Chartered Company."

"Well, Jameson only did what he was told. He had to obey orders, like the rest of us. He didn't
make the plan, and he's got the punishment."

"What business had he to listen? What's all this fine administration they talk of? It's six
years since I came to this country, and I've worked like a nigger ever since I came, and what
have I, or any men who've worked hard at real, honest farming, got for it? Everything in the
land is given away for the benefit of a few big folks over the water or swells out here. If
England took over the Chartered Company tomorrow, what would she find?--everything of value
in the land given over to private concessionaires--they'll line their pockets if the whole
land goes to pot! It'll be the jackals eating all the flesh off the horse's bones, and calling
the lion in to lick the bones."

"Oh, you wait a bit and you'll be squared," said the handsome man. "I've been here five years
and had lots of promises, though I haven't got anything else yet; but I expect it to come some
day, so I keep my mouth shut! If they asked me to sign a paper, that Mr. Over-the-Way"--he
nodded towards the bell tent--"never got drunk or didn't know how to swear, I'd sign it, if
there was a good dose of squaring to come after it. I could stand a good lot of that sort of
thing--squaring--if it would only come my way."

The men laughed in a dreary sort of way, and the third man, who had not spoken yet, rolled
round on to his back, and took the pipe from his mouth.

"I tell you what," said the keen man, "those of us up here who have got a bit of land and are
trying honestly and fairly to work, are getting pretty sick of this humbugging fighting. If
we'd had a few men like the Curries and Bowkers of the old days up here from the first, all
this would never have happened. And there's no knowing when a reason won't turn up for keeping
the bloody thing on or stopping it off for a time, to break out just when one's settled down
to work. It's a damned convenient thing to have a war like this to turn on and off."

