 So that, supposing them all to receive a shilling a day each,
the soldiers receive only about a third part of the sum now paid annually in Poor-rates.

I have no room, nor have I any desire, to appeal to your passions upon this occasion. I have
laid before you, with all the clearness I am master of, the causes of our misery, the measures
which have led to those causes, and I have pointed out what appears to me to be the only remedy--namely
a reform of the Commons', or People's House of Parliament. I exhort you to proceed in a peaceable
and lawful manner, but at the same time to proceed with zeal and resolution in the attainment
of this object. If the skulkers will not join you, if the 'decent fireside' gentry still keep
aloof, proceed by yourselves. Any man can draw up a petition, and any man can carry it up to
London, with instructions to deliver it into trusty hands, to be presented whenever the House
shall meet. Some further information will be given as to this matter in a future Number. In
the meanwhile, I remain your Friend, WM. COBBETT.

TO JACK HARROW, AN ENGLISH LABOURER

On the new Cheat which is now on foot, and which goes under the name of Savings Banks

NORTH HAMPSTEAD, LONG ISLAND, November 7th, 1818.

Friend Jack--You sometimes hear the Parson talk about deceivers, who go about in sheep's clothing;
but who inwardly are ravening wolves. You frequently hear of the tricks of the London cheats,
and I daresay you have often enough witnessed those of mountebanks and gypsies. But, Jack,
all the tricks of these deceivers and cheaters, if the trickery of them all were put together,
would fall far short of the trick now playing off under the name of Savings Banks. And seeing
that it is possible that you may be exposed to the danger of having a few pounds picked out
of your pocket by this trick, I think it right to put you on your guard against the cheat.

You have before been informed of who and what the Boroughmongers are. Therefore, at present,
I shall enter into no explanation of their recent conduct. But, in order to give you a clear
view of their motives in this new trick, and which, I think, is about the last in their budget,
I must go back and tell you something of the history of their Debt, and of what are called
the Funds. Some years ago the Boroughmongers put me into a loathsome prison for two years,
made me pay a thousand pounds fine, and made me enter into recognisances for seven years, only
because I expressed my indignation at the flogging of Englishmen, in the heart of England,
under the superintendence of hired German troops brought into the country to keep the people
in awe. It pleased God, Jack, to preserve my life and health, while I was in that prison. And
I employed a part of my time in writing a little book entitled Paper against Gold. In this
little book I fully explained all the frauds of what is called the National Debt, and of what
are called the Funds. But as it is possible that you may not have seen that little book, I
will here tell you enough about these things to make you see the reasons for the Boroughmongers
using this trick of Savings Banks.

The Boroughmongers are, you know, those persons (some Lords, some Baronets, and some Esquires,
as they call themselves) who fill, or nominate others to fill, the seats in the House of Commons.
Commons means the mass of the people. So that this is the House of the People, according to
the law of the land. The people--you, I, and all of us, ought to vote for the men who sit in
this House. But the said Lords, Baronets, and Esquires have taken our rights away, and they
nominate the Members themselves. A monger is a dealer, as ironmonger, cheesemonger, and the
like: and as the Lords, Baronets, and Esquires sometimes sell and sometimes buy seats, and
as the seats are said to be filled by the people in certain Boroughs, these Lords, Baronets,
and Esquires are very properly called Boroughmongers; that is to say, dealers in boroughs or
in the seats of boroughs. As all laws and all other matters of government are set up and enforced
at the will of the two Houses, against whose will the king cannot stir hand or foot; and as
the Boroughmongers fill the seats of the two Houses, they have all the power, and, of course,
the king and the people have none. Being possessed of all the power; being able to tax us at
their pleasure; being able to hang us for whatever they please to call a crime; they will,
of course, do with our property and persons just what they please. And accordingly, they take
from us more than the half of our earnings; and they keep soldiers (whom they deceive) to shoot
at us and kill us, if we attempt to resist. They put us in dungeons when they like. And, in
Ireland, they compel people to remain shut up in their houses from sunset to sunrise, and if
any man, contrary to their commands, goes out of his house in the night, in order to go to
the privy, they punish him very severely; and in that unhappy country they transport men and
women to Botany Bay without any trial by jury, and merely by the orders of two justices of
the peace appointed by themselves.

This, Jack, is horrid work to be going on amongst a people who call themselves free; amongst
a people who boast of their liberties. But the facts are so; and now I shall explain to you
how the Boroughmongers, who are so few in number compared to the whole people, are able to
commit these cruel acts and to carry on this abominable tyranny; and you will see that the
trick of Savings Banks makes a part of the means, which they now intend to use for the perpetuating
of this tyranny.

Formerly, more than a hundred years ago, when the kings of England had some real power, and
before the Boroughmongers took all the powers of king and people into their hands, the people,
when the kings behaved amiss, used to rise against them and compel them to act justly. They
beheaded Charles the First about one hundred and seventy years ago; and they drove James the
Second out of the kingdom; they went so far as to set his family aside for ever, and they put
up the present royal family in its stead.

This was all very well; but when King James had been driven out, the Lords and Baronets and
Squires conceived the notion of ruling for ever over king and people. They made Parliaments,
which used to be annual, three years of duration; and when the members had been elected for
three years, the members themselves made a law to make the people obey them for seven years.
Thus was the usurpation completed; and from that time to this the Boroughmongers have filled
the seats just as it has pleased them to do it; and they have, as I said before, done with
our property and our persons just what they have pleased to do.

Now it will naturally be matter of wonder to you, friend Jack, that this small band of persons,
and of debauched wretched persons too, any half dozen of whom you would be able to beat with
one hand tied down; it will be matter of wonder to you that this contemptible band should have
been able thus to subjugate, and hold in bondage so degrading, the whole of the English people.
But, Jack, recollect that once a parcel of fat, lazy, drinking, and guttling monks and friars
were able to make this same people to work and support them in their laziness and debaucheries,
aye, and almost to adore them, too; to go to them, and kneel down and confess their sins to
them, and to believe that it was in their power to absolve them of their sins. Now how was
it that these fat, these bastard-propagating rascals succeeded in making the people do this?
Why by fraud; by deception; by cheatery; by making them believe lies; by frightening them half
out of their wits; by making them believe that they would go to hell if they did not work for
them. A ten-thousandth part of the people were able to knock the greasy vagabonds on the head;
and they would have done it too; but they were afraid of going to hell if they had no priest
to pardon them.

Thus did these miscreants govern by fraud. The Boroughmongers, as I shall by and by show, have
of late been compelled to resort to open force; but for a long while they governed by fraud
alone. First they, by the artful and able agents which they have constantly kept in pay, frightened
the people with the pretended dangers of a return of the old king's family. The people were
amused with this scarecrow, while the chains were silently forging to bind them with. But the
great fraud, the cheat of all cheats, was what they call the national debt. And now, Jack,
pray attend to me; for I am going to explain the chief cause of all the disgraces and sufferings
of the labourers in England; and am also going to explain the reasons or motives which the
Boroughmongers have for setting on foot this new fraud of Savings Banks. I beg you, Jack, if
you have no other leisure time, to stay at home instead of going to church, for one single
Sunday. Shave yourself, put on a clean shirt, and sit down and read this letter ten times over,
until you understand every word of it. And if you do that, you will laugh at the parson and
tax-gatherer's coaxings about Savings Banks. You will keep your odd pennies to yourself; or
lay them out in bread or bacon.

You have heard, I daresay, a great deal about the national debt; and now I will tell you what
this thing is, and how it came, and then you will see what an imposture it is, and how shamefully
the people of England have been duped and robbed.

The Boroughmongers having usurped all the powers of government, and having begun to pocket
the public money at a great rate, the people grew discontented. They began to think that they
had done wrong in driving King James away. In a pretty little fable-book, there is a fable
which says that the frogs, who had a log of wood for king, prayed to Jupiter to send them something
more active. He sent them a stork, or heron, which gobbled them up alive by scores! The people
of England found in the Boroughmongers what the poor frogs found in the stork; and they began
to cry out against them and to wish for the old king back again.

The Boroughmongers saw their danger, and they adopted measures to prevent it. They saw that
if they could make it the interest of a great many rich people to uphold them and their system
they should be able to get along. They therefore passed a law to enable themselves to borrow
money of rich people; and by the same law they imposed it on the people at large to pay, for
ever, the interest of the money so by them borrowed.

The money which they thus borrowed they spent in wars, or divided amongst themselves, in one
shape or another. Indeed the money spent in wars was pocketed, for the greater part, by themselves.
Thus they owed, in time, immense sums of money; and as they continued to pass laws to compel
the nation at large to pay the interest of what they borrowed, spent and pocketed, they called
and still call this debt, the debt of the nation; or, in the usual words, the national debt.

It is curious to observe that there has seldom been known in the world any very wicked and
mischievous scheme of which a priest of some description or other was not at the bottom. This
scheme, certainly as wicked in itself as any that was ever known, and far more mischievous
in its consequences than any other, was the offspring of a Bishop of Salisbury, whose name
was Burnet; a name that we ought to teach our very children to execrate. This crafty priest
was made a Bishop for his invention of this scheme; a fit reward for such a service.

The Boroughmongers began this debt one hundred and twenty-four years ago. They have gone on
borrowing ever since; and have never paid off one farthing, and never can. They have continued
to pass Acts to make the people pay the interest of what has been borrowed; till, at last,
the debt itself amounts to more than all the lands, all the houses, all the trees, all the
canals and all the mines would sell for at their full sterling value; and the money to pay
the interest is taken out of men's rents and out of their earnings; and you, Jack, as I shall
by and by prove to you, pay to the Boroughmongers more than the half of what you receive in
weekly wages from your master.

Is not this a pretty state of things? Pray observe, Jack, the debt far exceeds the real full
value of the whole kingdom, if there could be a purchaser found for it. So that, you see, as
to private property no man has any, as long as this debt hangs upon the country. Your master,
Farmer Gripe, for instance, calls his farm his. It is none of his, according to the Boroughmongers'
law; for that law has pawned it for the payment of the interest of the Boroughmongers' debt;
and the pawn must remain as long as the Boroughmongers' law remains. Gripe is compelled to
pay out of the yearly value of his farm a certain portion to the debt. He may, indeed, sell
the farm; but he can get only a part of the value; because the purchaser will have to pay a
yearly sum on account of the pawn. In short, the Boroughmongers have, in fact, passed laws
to take every man's private property away from him, in whatever portions their debt may demand
such taking away; and a man who thinks himself an owner of land, is at best only a steward
who manages it for the Boroughmongers.

This, however, is only a small part of the evil; for the whole of the rents of the houses and
lands and mines and canals would not pay the interest of this debt; no, and not much more than
the half of it. The labour is therefore pawned too. Every man's labour is pawned for the payment
of the interest of this debt. Aye, Jack, you may think that you are working for yourself, and
that, when on a Saturday night you take nine shillings from Farmer Gripe, the shillings are
for your own use. You are grievously deceived, for more than half the sum is paid to the Boroughmongers
on account of the pawn. You do not see this, but the fact is so. Come, what are the things
in which you expend the nine shillings? Tea, sugar, tobacco, candles, salt, soap, shoes, beer,
bread; for no meat do you ever taste. On the articles taken together, except bread, you pay
far more than half tax; and you will observe that your master's taxes are, in part, pinched
out of you. There is an army employed in Ireland to go with the excisemen and other taxers
to make the people pay. If the taxers were to wait at the ale houses and grocers' shops, and
receive their portion from your own hands, you would then clearly see that the Boroughmongers
take away more than the half of what you earn. You would then clearly see what it is that makes
you poor and ragged, and that makes your children cry for the want of a bellyful. You would
clearly see that what the hypocrites tell you about this being your lot, and about Providence
placing you in such a state in order to try your patience and faith, is all a base falsehood.
Why does not Providence place the Boroughmongers and the parsons in a state to try their patience
and faith? Is Providence less anxious to save them than to save you? If you could see clearly
what you pay on account of the Boroughmongers' pawn, you would see that your misery arises
from the designs of a benevolent Providence being counteracted by the measures of the Borough-tyrants.

Your lot, indeed! Your lot assigned by Providence! This is real blasphemy! Just as if Providence,
which sends the salt on shore all round our coast, had ordained that you should not have any
of it unless you would pay the Boroughmongers fifteen shillings a bushel tax upon it! But what
a Providence must that be which would ordain that an Englishman should pay fifteen shillings
tax on a bushel of English salt, while a Long Islander pays only two shillings and sixpence
for a bushel of the same salt, after it is brought to America from England? What an idea must
we have of such a Providence as this? Oh no, Jack; this is not the work of Providence. It is
the work of the Boroughmongers; the pretext about Providence has been invented to deceive and
cheat you, and to perpetuate your slavery.

Well: all is pawned then. The land, the houses, the canals, the mines, and the labour are pawned
for the payment of the interest of the Boroughmongers debt. Your labour, mind, Jack, is pawned
for the one-half of its worth. But you will naturally ask, how is it that the nation, that
everybody submits to this? There's your mistake, Jack. It is not everybody that submits. In
the first place there are the Boroughmongers themselves and all their long tribe of relations,
legitimate and spurious, who profit from the taxes, and who have the church livings, which
they enjoy without giving the poor any part of their legal share of those livings. Then there
are all the officers of army and navy, and all the endless hosts of place-men and place-women,
pensioned men and pensioned women, and all the hosts of tax-gatherers, who alone, these last
I mean, swallow more than would be necessary to carry on the Government under a reformed Parliament.
But have you forgotten the lenders of the money which makes the debt? These people live wholly
upon the interest of the debt; and of course they approve of your labour, and the labour of
every man being pawned. The Boroughmongers have pawned your labour to them. Therefore they
like that your labour should be taxed. They cannot be said to submit to the tyranny; they applaud
it, and to their utmost they support it.

But you will say, still the mass of the people would, if they had a mind to bestir themselves,
be too strong for all these. Very true. But you forget the army, Jack. This is a great military
force, armed with bayonets, bullets and cannon-balls, ready at all times and in all places
to march or gallop to attack the people, if they attempt to eat sugar or salt without paying
the tax. There are forts, under the name of barracks, all over the kingdom, where armed men
are kept in readiness for this purpose. In Ireland they actually go in person to help to collect
the taxes; and in England they are always ready to do the same. Now, suppose, Jack, that a
man who has a bit of land by the seaside, were to take up a little of the salt that Providence
sends on shore. He would be prosecuted. He would resist the process. Soldiers would come and
take him away to be tried and hanged. Suppose you, Jack, were to dip your rushes into grease,
till they came to farthing candles. The Excise would prosecute you. The sheriff would send
men to drag you to jail. You would fight in defence of your house and home. You would beat
off the sheriff's men. Soldiers would come and kill you, or would take you away to be hanged.

This is the thing by which the Boroughmongers govern. There are enough who would gladly not
submit to their tyranny; but there is nobody but themselves who has an army at command.

Nevertheless they are not altogether easy under these circumstances. An army is a two-edged
weapon. It may cut the employer as well as the thing that it is employed upon. It is made up
of flesh and blood, and of English flesh and blood too. It may not always be willing to move,
or to strike when moved. The Boroughmongers see that their titles and estates hang upon the
army. They would fain coax the people back again to feelings of reverence and love. They would
fain wheedle them into something that shall blunt their hostility. They have been trying Bible-schemes,
school-schemes, and soup-schemes. And at last they are trying the Savings Banks scheme, upon
which I shall now more particularly address you.

This thing is of the same nature, and its design is the same, as those of the grand scheme
of Bishop Burnet. The people are discontented. They feel their oppressions; they seek a change;
and some of them have decidedly protested against paying any longer any part of the interest
of the debt, which they say ought to be paid, if at all, by those who have borrowed and spent,
or pocketed, the money. Now then, in order to enlist great numbers of labourers and artisans
on their side, the Boroughmongers have fallen upon the scheme of coaxing them to put small
sums into what they call banks. These sums they pay large interest upon, and suffer the parties
to take them out whenever they please. By this scheme they think to bind great numbers to them
and their tyranny. They think that great numbers of labourers and artisans, seeing their little
sums increase, as they will imagine, will begin to conceive the hopes of becoming rich by such
means; and as these persons are to be told that their money is in the funds, they will soon
imbibe the spirit of fundholders, and will not care who suffers, or whether freedom or slavery
prevail, so that the funds be but safe.

Such is the scheme and such the motives. It will fail of its object, though not unworthy the
inventive powers of the servile knaves of Edinburgh. It will fail, first because the men from
whom alone the Borough-tyrants have anything to dread, will see through the scheme and despise
it; and will, besides, well know that the funds are a mere bubble that may burst, or be bursted
at any moment. The parsons appear to be the main tools in this coaxing scheme. They are always
at the head of everything which they think likely to support tyranny. The depositors will be
domestic servants, particularly women, who will be tickled with the idea of having a fortune
in the funds. The Boroughmongers will hint to their tenants that they must get their labourers
into the Savings Banks. A preference will be given to such as deposit. The Ladies, the 'Parsons'
Ladies,' will scold poor people into the funds. The parish officers will act their part in
this compulsory process: and thus will the Boroughmongers get into their hands some millions
of the people's money by a sort of 'forced loan': or in other words, a robbery. In order to
swell the thing out, the parsons and other tools of the Boroughmongers will lend money in this
way themselves, under feigned names; and we shall, if the system last a year or two, hear boastings
of how rich the poor are become.

