Charity is due even to the prejudices of princes. They are, probably, as much in the dark on
this head, as their subjects. They have been taught from their cradles that they were born
to rule, as their subjects have been taught from theirs, that they were born to be ruled. The
mistake seems to be mutual, and is, perhaps, equally honest on both sides. Humanity requires
that its correction should be attended with as little violence as possible, and this can be
best effected by the gradual diffusion of light. Let us be content with the order of nature,
which, however slow, is always safest and best. The sun does not spring at once from the nadir
to the zenith. Such a leap would bring on a convulsion of nature and the crash of worlds. No:
his ascent is gradual. Our eyes are accommodated, without pain, to his increasing light. The
landscape is softly and beautifully unfolded, and the planetary system, in the meantime, maintains
its harmonious and salutary action. The seasons revolve in their order; and the earth brings
forth her flowers and her fruits, in peace. So let us be content to have it in the intellectual
world. Let not vain man presume to be wiser than his Maker, and, in a foolish attempt to force
the order of nature, create only misery, where he intended happiness.

Let us not fear that the light which has already gone forth will be extinguished. Tyrants might
as well attempt to blot the sun from the firmament. They may attempt it; but "He that sitteth
in the heavens shall laugh them to scorn." The creatures formed for his worship will be permitted
to worship him with exalted faculties and full liberty of conscience. Placed here for their
common good and happiness, and indued with minds and affections fitted for enlightened intercourse,
and the mutual interchange of kind offices, let us not be so impious as to fear that the light
which has arisen will be suffered to be put out and the world re-plunged in darkness and barbarity.

Fellow citizens, this light was first struck in our land. The sacred trust is still among us.
Let us take care how we guard the holy fire. We stand under a fearful responsibility to our
Creator and our fellow creatures. It has been his divine pleasure that we should be sent forth
as the harbingers of free government on the earth, and in this attitude we are now before the
world. The eyes of the world are upon us; and our example will probably be decisive of the
cause of human liberty.

The great argument of despots against free governments is, that large bodies of men are incapable
of self-rule, and that the inevitable and rapid tendency of such a government as ours is to
faction, strife, anarchy and dissolution. Let it be our effort to give, to the expecting world,
a great, practical and splendid refutation of this charge. If we cannot do this, the world
may despair. To what other nation can we look to do it? We claim no natural superiority to
other nations. We have not the folly to think of it. We claim nothing more than a natural equality.
But circumstances have conspired to give us an advantage in making this great political experiment
which no other modern nation enjoys. The government under which the fathers of our revolution
were born was the freest in Europe. They were rocked in the cradle and nurtured in the principles
of British liberty: and the transition from those institutions to our own was extremely easy.
They were maturely prepared for the change both by birth and education, and came into existence
as a republic under the happiest auspices that can ever again be expected to arise. If, therefore,
our experiment shall fail, I say again that the world may well despair.